Dr. A. W. Hofmann on Aromatic Monamines .
December 5 , 1872 .
Rear-Admiral G. H. RICHARDS , C.B. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
It was announced from the Chair that the President had appointed as Vice-Presidents:\#151 ; The Treasurer .
Mr. Busk .
Dr. Hirst .
Admiral Richards .
Dr. Sibson .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " Synthesis of Aromatic Monamines by Intramolecular Atomic Interchange .
" By A. W. Hofmann , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received August 22 , 1872 .
In a paper submitted to the German Chemical Society about a year ago , we proved ( Dr. Martius and myself* ) that the action of methylic alcohol on aniline chlorhydrate at a high temperature and under pressure , far from yielding exclusively methyl- and dimethylaniline , as had been formerly believed , is capable of causing methylation of the phenyl group , and thus producing quite a series of higher homologues of dimethylaniline .
If we endeavour to gain an insight into the mechanism of this reaction , we are led to assume that in the first instance the chlorhydric acid of the aniline salt gives rise to the formation of methylic chloride , which in its turn induces substitution , first in the ammonia fragment , and ultimately in the phenyl group itself .
If , on the other hand , we remember that a tertiary monamine , such as must be formed by the final methylation of the ammonia fragment in aniline , when submitted to the action of an alcohol chloride , is invariably converted into an ammonium compound , it must appear rather strange that , in the process above alluded to , only tertiary , and never any quartary bases are observed .
Under these circumstances the idea very naturally suggested itself of submitting the behaviour of quartary compounds at a high temperature under pressure to an experimental investigation .
The simplest compound that could be selected for such an inquiry appeared to be trimethylphenylammonium iodide .
C , H,.CH,.CH,.CH , NI .
Reserving for a future communication the experimental details of this * Hofmann and Martius , Berichte , 1871 , p. 742 .
VOL. XXI .
E Dr. A. W , Hofmann on Aromatic Monamines .
[ Dec. 5 , inquiry , I will limit myself for the present to a brief statement of the principal results obtained .
Leaving secondary reactions out of consideration , the transformation of the trimethylated phenylammonium iodide is represented by the following equations:\#151 ; Transformation of quartary into tertiary compound .
C6 H3 .
CH3 .
CH3 .
CH3 .
NI=(Ce H4.0H3 ) CH3 .
CH3 N .
HI .
Transformation of tertiary into secondary compound .
( 0 .
H4 .
CH3 ) CH3 .
CH3 .
N .
HI= [ 0 .
H3 ( CH3)J CH3 .
HN .
HI .
Transformation of secondary into primary compound .
[ C6 H3 ( CH3)2 ] CH3 .LIN .
III = [ 0 , H2 ( CII3)3 ] HHN .
HI .
Accordingly trimethylated phenylammonium iodide , when submitted to the action of heat , is transformed , in the first place , into iodhydrate of dimethylated methylophenylamine or dimethyltoluidine ; this , in a second phase of the reaction , becomes iodhydrate of monomethylated dime-thylophenylamine or methyl xylidine , which in its turn is ultimately converted into iodhydrate of trimethylophenylamine , i. e. of cumidine .
The essential character of the reaction is thus seen to be an intramolecular change in the position of the methyl groups .
According to the duration of the process , there are incorporated in the benzol nucleus , first the methyl group of the alcohol iodide , and then successively the two methylic groups which are stationed in the ammonia fragment .
The action of heat on the quartary ammonium compound thus places at our disposal a simple means of rising from the benzol series itself to the toluol , xylol , and cumol series , or , generally ( for the reaction may probably be utilized in many other cases ) , of passing from a less carbonated to a more carbonated series of compounds .
In carrying out the researches , the general results of which are sketched in the preceding paragraphs , rather considerable quantities of trimethylated phenylammonium iodide were consumed .
This I obtained partly by methylating pure aniline with methyl iodide , partly by starting from commercial dimethylaniline , which was most liberally supplied to me by my friends Drs. Martius and Mendelssohn Bartholdy , having been specially purified for this purpose by Mr. Gr .
Krell , by fractional distillation in the laboratory of the factory .
This purified material was found to boil between 192 ' and 200 ' ; and only few rectifications were necessary in order to obtain from it dimethyanilme in a state of perfect purity , identical in every respect with the base prepared by submitting trimethylated phenylammonium hydrate to distillation .
Pure dimethylaniline is a liquid o 0'9553 volume weight , solidifying to a crystalline mass at + 0o,5 , and boiling 1872 .
] Dr. A. W. Hofmann on Aromatic Monamines .
at 192 ' .
The boiling-point was repeatedly determined , since it had been erroneously stated by Al .
Laut 1l* to be 202 ' .
The nature of the compound was ascertained by the analysis of the beautiful platinum salt 2[C6H5(CH3)2N.HCl].PtCl4 , crystallizing in well-formed tables of considerable solubility .
In the early experiments trimethylated phenylammonium iodide was employed in the pure state , such as is obtained by crystallization ; subsequently , however , it was found to be quite sufficient if 1 mol .
of di-methylaniline was mixed with 1 mol .
of methyl iodide , and the compound thus produced at once submitted to the action of heat .
The quartary iodide may be exposed to a temperature of 200 for a considerable time without undergoing any alteration ; but when heated for a day to from 220 ' to 230 ' , the salt is changed , the whole crystalline compound being transformed into an amber-yellow viscid mass , exhibiting no longer a trace of crystalline structure .
If the temperature be then raised to the melting-point of lead ( 335 ' ) , a further change is manifested by the amorphous resinous substance having solidified again to a hard mass of large radiated , generally rather coloured crystals .
On opening the digestion-tubes , appreciable quantities of uninflammable gas are evolved .
The products formed at moderate and extreme temperatures essentially differ from one another .
This is seen at once when the iod-hydrates produced in both cases are decomposed by alkali , and the .bases thus liberated are submitted to distillation in a current of steam .
The volatility of these bases shows the absence of quartary compounds ; but whilst the monamines formed at moderate temperatures unite with acids to extremely soluble salts , which are scarcely to be crystallized , those which are produced at high temperatures are found to solidify to lathei difficultly soluble , readily crystallizable salts with acids .
The former bases exhibit the characters of tertiary and secondary , the latter ones those of primary monamines .
Under these circumstances , it appeared desirable separately to examine the products formed in different conditions of temperature .
Examination of the Monamines formed at moderately High Temperatures .
On submitting the iodhvdrates formed at 220'\#151 ; 230 to distillation with alkali , a basic off is obtained which , when rectified after drying over hydrate of potassium , bods between 200 ' and 280 ' .
By repeated distillation the boiling-point is considerably lowered , small quantities of sub-stances boiling beyond the range of the thermometer being separated .
.Finally , by far the greater portion of the bases is found to pass between 186 ' and 220 ' .
This liquid consists of two varieties of dimethyltolui* Lauth , Bull .
Soc. Chim .
[ 2 ] vol. vii .
p. 448 .
Dr. A. W. Hofmann on Aromatic Monamines .
[ Dec. 5\gt ; dine , of methylxylidine , and small quantities of dimethylxylidine .
Of the two dimethyltoluidines , the one has thevol .
w. 0*9324 , and boils constantly at 186 ' j the other has the vol. w. 0*9368 , and boils at 205 ' , i. e. 19 ' higher than the former one .
The nature of these two bases was fixed by the analysis of their platinum salts , 2[(C6 H4 .
CH3 ) ( CH3)2 N .
H Cl ] .
Pt Cl4 , and also of the quartary iodide , ( C6H4.CH3)(CH3)3NI , into which they were converted by the action of methyl iodide , and the platinum salts corresponding to these iodides , 2[(C6 H4 .
CH3 ) ( CH3)3 N Cl ] .
Pt Cl4 .
The two dimethylated toluidines here described obviously correspond to two of the three modifications of toluidine , and very probably to the two liquid modifications .
Dimethyltoluidine , obtained by converting solid toluidine into the trimethylated toluylammonium iodide , and then submitting the corresponding hydrate to distillation , has a vol. w. 0*988 , and boils at 210 ' .
The substance thus obtained , the composition of which was likewise established by analysis of the platinum salt , essentially differs from the isomeric base boiling at 186 ' ; it is less easily distinguished from the base boiling at 205 ' , with which more particularly it agrees in odour ; in fact these two compounds exhibit only a slight difference of 5 ' in their boiling-points .
Still I believe them to be isomeric , not identical .
It deserves to be noticed that while the boiling-point of solid toluidine ( 202 ' ) , by the introduction of two methyl groups , is raised by 8 ' , the boiling temperature of one of the liquid modifications ( 198 ' ) is lowered by not less than 12 ' .
Phenomena of this kind have been observed repeatedly in the course of this inquiry .
It has been already mentioned that , in addition to the two dimethylated toluidines , the product of the action of heat on trimethylated phenyl-ammonium iodide contains methylxylidine .
I have not been able to isolate this compound ; but it was not difficult to prove its presence by the action of methyl iodide on the mixed bases .
The two dimethylated toluidines are thus converted into quartary iodides ; but , together with these compounds , there is formed a tertiary iodhydrate , the base of which is readily separated by distillation of the product with an alkali .
The base thus liberated has the vol. w. 0*9293 , and boils at 196 ' .
Analysis of the platinum salt proved it to be dimethylated xylidine , C10 H15 N=[Ce h3 ( CH3)J ( CH3)2 n , which previous to methylation must have obviously existed in the form of monomethylated xylidine , C9H13K=[C6H3(CH3)2]CH3.HN .
The presence of methylxylidine being only indirectly proved by analysis 1872 .
] Dr. A. W. Hofmann on Aromatic Monamines .
of the dimethylated base , it appeared desirable to establish the nature of the latter by additional experiments .
For this purpose the tertiary monamine was converted , by means of methyl iodide , into the quartary compound , the characters of which could not be mistaken , its composition being moreover established by analysis of the beautiful platinum salt , 2[C6H3(CH3)2](CH3)3NCl].PtCl4 .
In performing these experiments I was astonished to observe how difficultly dimethylxylidine combined with methyl iodide .
Digestion at 100 ' produced no effect , and only by heating the mixture for many hours to a temperature of 150 ' combination took place , but even then only to a very small extent .
It was this indifference of dimethylxylidine towards methyl iodide which enabled me to discover that small quantities of this compound are always formed , together with the monomethylated xylidine , when tri-methylated phenylammonium iodide is submitted to the action of heat .
On treating the liquid , chiefly consisting of the two dimethylated toluidines and of monomethylated xylidine , with methyl iodide , these bases , as I have pointed out , are converted into iodine compounds ; the small quantity of dimethylxylidine which as such exists in the liquid remains behind with the excess of methylic iodide , from which it may easily be separated by means of hydrochloric acid .
The formation of dimethylated toluidines and of monomethylated xylidine requires no special explanation ; it is due to intramolecular atomic interchange .
C6 Hg ( CH3)3 NI = ( O H4 .
CH3 ) ( CH3)2 N. HI .
=[C6H3.(CH3)2]CH3 hn.hi .
For the generation of dimethylxylidine it is necessary to supply a methyl group from without .
I have , however , already pointed out that , along with the principal transformation , several secondary reactions are taking place ; those I hope to examine more minutely by-and-by .
Dimethylxylidine , which occurs in comparatively small quantity , obviously belongs to such a secondary change .
The complementary product is probably monomethyltoluidine , 2[C6H5(CH3)3NI]=(C6H4 .
ch3 ) ch3 hn.hi , + [ C6H3.(CH3)2](CH3)2 n .hi , which I have not , however , as yet been able to trace .
Whilst engaged with these experiments , I have , for the sake of comparison , converted a specimen of xylidine obtained from aniline-oil of high boiling-point into dimethylxylidine .
The xylidine employed had a constant boiling-point at 216 ' .
The tertiary base procured from it was observed to boil at 203 ' , i. e. 7 ' higher than the compound derived from tri-methylated phenylammonium iodide ; from this last derivative it differed , moreover , by combining much more readily with methyl iodide .
The 52 Dr. A. W. Hofmann on Aromatic Monamines.[Dec .
5 , quartary compound thus formed often remains liquid for days , and then suddenly solidifies into a beautiful mass of crystals .
Examination of the Monamines formed at High Temperatures .
It has been already stated that the bases into which trimethylated phenylammonium iodide is converted at very high temperatures ( melting-point of lead ) unmistakably exhibit the character of primary monamines .
The only primary base which can arise from trimethylated phenylammonium iodide by intramolecular atomic interchange is a trimethylo-phenylated monamine , i. e. a cumidine .
C6 H6 ( CH3)8 NI=[Ce H2 ( CH3)3 ] H2 N. HI .
This , I may at once observe , is indeed the principal product of the reaction .
It caunot , however , be wondered at that , under the influence of such extreme temperatures , many collateral changes must take place .
The presence of by-products is at once perceived when the crystalline contents of the ' digestion-tube are submitted to distillation in a current of steam .
Together with the vapour of water , a colourless oil is volatilized , consisting of hydrocarbons partly solid , partly liquid , the examination of which will form the subject of a future communication .
Addition of an alkali to the liquid in the retort liberates considerable quan tities of monamines , which , when dried over sodium hydrate , are observed to boil between 225 ' and 260 ' .
By repeated distillation this range of boiling is still considerably expanded ; at the same time , by far the largest portion of the liquid is found to pass between 217 ' and 230 ' .
The primary nature not only of this main fraction , but also of the bases having both a lower and higher boiling-point , is at once manifested by the crystallizing power and insolubility of the salts which they produce .
At whatever stage of the distillation a drop of the liquid passing be mixed with dilute hydrochloric or nitric acid , invariably splendid needles of chlorhydrates or nitrates are formed , the solutions of which , even when considerably di luted , solidify with platinum perchloride to double salts generally well crystallized .
Another experiment rapidly indicating the primary character of these monamines may here be mentioned .
On adding benzoyl ehlori e ^ to the several basic fractions , much heat is evolved ; and after cooling crystalline masses are produced , which are separated by water into soluble chlorhydrates and insoluble benzoyl compounds which may be crystallize from alcohol .
None of the , many secondary and tertiary monamines which have passed through my hands in the course of this inquiry exhi it this deportment ; and accordingly benzoyl chloride may be recommen_ j as a valuable reagent , readily applicable for primary bases .
The met o ; of recognizing primary moiiainiues , which I pointed out some time ago* , and which consists in converting them , by means of alcoho ic , * Hofmann , D. chem .
Berichte , 1870 , p. 767 .
1872 .
] Dr. A. W. Hofmann on Aromatic Monamines .
potash and chloroform , into the powerfully smelling isonitriles , may also with advantage be resorted to .
The liquid boiling between 217 ' and 230 ' was separated by distillation into four fractions , each of which was then converted into a magnificently crystalline chlorhydrate .
These several salts , after recrystallization , were all found to contain [ C , H2(CH , )JHaN .
H01 , and to yield platinum salt of the composition 2[[C .
H , ( CH , ) , ]Ha N. H Cl ] .
Pt Cl( .
I was thus led to believe that the fraction boiling between 217 ' and 230 ' consisted of several isomeric cumidines ; but on separating the bases from the several chlorhydrates , it was found that they all exhibited very nearly the same boiling-point .
The liquid thus obtained boiled between 225 ' and 227 ' , and had the vol. w. 0'9633 ; it did not solidify when exposed to a temperature of \#151 ; 10 ' .
I am therefore inclined to assume that only one cumidine is formed by the action of heat on trimethylated phenylammonium iodide , and that the irregularities in the boiling-point of the original fraction must be due to the presence of small quantities of impurities .
It deserves to be noticed that cumidine obtained from aniline , when heated with corrosive sublimate , yields no trace of red colouring-matter , whilst a splendid crimson is at once produced if a mixture of this base with pure aniline be treated .
I reserve for a future communication the study of the colouring-matter thus obtained .
Taking into consideration the general observations recorded in the preceding paragraphs , the compound here designated as cumidine was naturally assumed to be a primary monamine .
Little doubt as this conception appeared to present , it had nevertheless to be proved by experiment ; for this purpose the base was submitted to methylation .
Cumidine is readily acted upon by methylic iodide at the common temperature .
Since it was only necessary to establish the degree of substitution , the first product of methylation was at once submitted to a second treatment ; this second methylation likewise commenced at the common temperature , but had to be finished in the water-bath .
The dimethylated base thus obtained had the vol. w. 09076 : it boiled between 213 ' and 214 ' ; hence , in this case also , the insertion of two methyl groups had lowered the boiling-point .
Dimethylcumidine may be cooled to \#151 ; 10 ' without solidifying : like all tertiary monamines , it forms very soluble salts , but gives a very beautiful platinum salt , containing 2[[C , H3 ( CH , ) , ] ( CH , )2 N .
H 01 ] .
Pt 01 , .
Remarkably enough , dimethylated cumidine exhibits the same reluctance to form a quartary compound with methyl iodide that has already been pointed out as a peculiarity of the tertiary xylidine .
But whilst in the case of dimethylxylidine , though difficultly and sparingly , combination after Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the [ Dec. 5 , all took place ; all attempts with dimethylated cumidine have hitherto failed .
The base was heated with methylic iodide for days m the water-bath and ultimately even to 150 ' without any result .
This inability of forming quartary compounds must , in one way or another , depend upon the arrangement of the material within the molecule .
At all events , it deserves to be noticed that there are dimethylated xylidines and cumi-dines which readily combine with methyl iodide .
The dimethylated bases existing in the less volatile fractions of commercial dimethylaniline all form quartary compounds without difficulty , and must therefore correspond to xylidines and cumidines which differ from those derived from trimethylated phenylammonium iodide .
In what relation stands the cumidine above described to the cumidines already known ?
Of the several purely methylic cumidines which are possible , two only are somewhat accurately known ; these are the two bases which are derived , the one from so-called pseudocumol ( obtained by treating xylylic bromide and methylic iodide with sodium ) , the other from mesitylol .
The former cumidine is a solid fusing at 62 ' , and need not therefore be further considered here .
Most probably the cumidine above described will prove identical with the primary monamine corresponding to mesitylol .
Unfortunately mesitylamine has been hitherto so little studied , that even its boiling-point is not known .
I hope next winter to examine more minutely this group of compounds .
In conclusion , I have great pleasure in expressing my best thanks to Mr. E. Mylius , Assistant in the Berlin Laboratory , for the zeal and care with which he has furthered the progress of these researches .
II .
" Transformation of Aniline into Toluidine.'* By A. W. Hofmann , M.D. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received August 22 , 1872 .
" Whilst engaged with the experiments described in the previous paper , I have made some observations which I may be allowed briefly to mention to the Society , since the coming autumnal vacation will suspend work for a time .
In reviewing the experience collected as to the action of high temperatures upon trimethylated phenylammonium iodide , the question naturally suggested itself whether the transposition of methyl groups , such as it occurs in the quartary compound , would take place also on heating tertiary or secondary ammonium salts .
Experiment has answered this question in the affirmative .
Generally speaking the phenomena are exactly what , from the results of former observations , might have been expected .
It is my intention to study next winter more soundly the reactions here sketched out ; for the present I may be permitted just to allude to the happy solution of a problem with which during the last few years I had repeatedly , but always unsuccessfully , been engaged .

