1879 .
] Organization of Fossil Plants of the Coal Measures .
445 March 27,1879 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
* The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Organization of the F ossil Plants of the Coal Measures .
Part X. " By W. C. Williamson , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural History in Owens College , Manchester .
Received March 5 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) .
The still existing differences of opinion respecting the botanical affinities of the Sigillarise give value to every new fact calculated to throw light upon the question .
In 1865 , Edward Wunsch , Esq. , of Glasgow , made a discovery , which proves to have an important bearing upon it .
He found , at Laggan Bay , in Arran , a series of rather thin Carboniferous strata , separated by thick beds of volcanic ash , and in one of the Carboniferous shales especially , he discovered the bases of the stems of numerous very large trees , standing perpendicularly to the shales .
These trees have been referred to by several authors as 'Sigillarian .
In the summer of 1877 , Mr. Wunsch and I employed quarrymen to make extensive excavations amongst these strata , for the purpose of adding to the extensive series of specimens which he had obtained , and the whole of which he kindly placed in my hands .
The aggregate result of these explorations was to show that the conclusion previously arrived at , viz. , that the stems had belonged to a grove of Sigillarian trees was unsupported by a solitary fact .
These stems were of very large size , showing that they had belonged to fully grown trees .
None of them displayed any traces of leaf-scars , having outgrown the stages at which such scars would remain visible .
Their outer surfaces were scored with deep irregular longitudinal fissures , resulting from internal growth and consequent expansion , and which appear to have been mistaken for the longitudinal grooves and ridges of a Sigillarian bark .
Such , however , they certainly were not , since , in every instance , the surface bark had been entirely thrown off , and the fissures entered deeply into the subjacent bark layer .
In most of the stems , this comparatively thin bark layer was the only one that remained , the greater portion of the inner bark and the central vascular axis having disappeared , leaving a large cylindrical cavity , which was 446 Prof. W. C. Williamson .
Organization [ Mar. 27 , filled tip with volcanic ash .
These stems failed to display a single feature , justifying the conclusion that they were Sigillarian .
* In two of them the central cavity , instead of being filled with ash was filled with miscellaneous heaps of vegetable matter , amongst which were large fragments of the vascular axes of various plants such as Lepid.odendra and Stigmarice , hut in one of the largest stems were five or six decorticated vascular cylinders of Diploxyloid stems , of the largest size , and which , though arranged parallel to the long axis of the cylinder which enclosed them , obviously did not belong to them , but had been floated in from without .
The sup-position that these had been young stems that had grown within the hollow protecting cylinders , from spores , accidentally introduced , is wholly untenable , since each one of these several vascular axes has been the centre of a stem fully as large as that within which we found them aggregated .
Of course , these Diploxyloid vascular axes had the organization which Brongniart and the younger school of French botanists which still upholds his views on this point , believe to be characteristic of true Sigillarias\#151 ; a conclusion from which I have long dissented .
The only fragment we found , that threw any light upon the character of the leaf-scars that had indented the surfaces of these fully grown stems , was a well-defined example of the Lepidodendroid type .
We directed careful attention to the nature of the smaller fragments of branches and foliage which abounded in the volcanic ash with which the large stems were overlaid .
' These consisted of Lepidodendroid branches and twigs of all sizes and ages , and no doubt was left upon my mind that they were really the disjecta membra of the stems around which they were so profusely scattered .
The only fruits that have been obtained from the same locality are most of which contain macrospores and microspores .
Unless we are prepared to believe that this Arran deposit contained , on the one hand , numerous stems without branches , and , on the other , yet more numerous branches without - stems , we must recognise in these specimens the complementary elements of a grove of Lepidodendroid trees .
One specimen found is a very important one .
It has a mean diameter of six inches , and is either a small stem or a very large branch .
Internally it exhibits the same structure as all the smaller Lepidodendroid branches , except so far as it is modified by size and age .
But in addition to its other features , it exhibits a very narrow exogenous ring surrounding the ordinary Lepidodendroid one , thus giving some clue to the size attained by such branches before the internal organization passed from the Lepidodendroid to the Sigillarian type .
I have at last succeeded in obtaining the Strobilus , to which the remarkable macrospores and microspores figured in my last memoir 1879.1 of the Fossil Plants of the Coal Measures .
belong .
It unexpectedly proves to be a very small one , being little more than an inch in length .
Further specimens have shown that the abnormal peduncles of the macrospores shown in Plate 23 , fig. 64 , are wholly due to the partial collapse of the spore-wall .
Further specimens have also been obtained of the Strobiius and its spores represented in Plate 22 , figs. 38-57 .
These examples possess the central vascular axis in a perfect state , which portion was lacking in the previously known examples .
It proves to have an individuality as distinctive as that of the spores and sporangia which it bore .
The important discovery by Mr. D'Arcy Thompson , of Edinburgh , of young branches of Ulodendron with reproductive cones actually attached to the scars characteristic of the genus , finally settles the nature and functions of these scars , showing that they mark the positions from which bilaterally arranged deciduous organs of fructification have fallen .
The structure of Calamostachys has had further light thrown upon it , sustaining my previously expressed convictions that it had a triquetrous axis , and that consequently its affinities were with Asterophyllites and Sphenop hyHum , and not with .
A specimen demonstrates that the six vascular bundles going to the six fertile sporangiophores were given off in pairs from the three truncated angles of a triangular vascular axis\#151 ; an orientation absolutely identical with that represented in similar sections of stems of Sphenophyllum , published by M. Renault .
The recent discovery by Herr Stur , of Vienna , of a plant in which Sphenophylloid and Asterophyllitean leaves are found upon a common stem , establishes the correctness of my previous conclusions as to the very close affinities of these two genera .
Two new fern petioles or stems have been obtained from Halifax , to which I have given the name of Rachiopteris robusta and R. insignis .
In one specimen of the latter , the large vessels of the central bundle are full of Tylose cells , whilst a second example exhibits no trace of them .
This shows the existence or non-existence of Tylose to be a characteristic having no specific value .
Since my last memoir was written I have obtained several new forms of cryptogamic conceptacles\#151 ; -similar to those previously described under the generic name of \#151 ; as well as been able to throw additional light upon some of those previously described .
No clue has yet been obtained as to the plants to which these very remarkable organisms belonged .
A large series of specimens from Oldham and Halifax has enabled me to investigate in detail the very curious objects to which Mr. Carruthers gave the name of Traquairia , and which that observer believes to be a form of Radiolarian life .
Their very elaborate organization can scarcely be made intelligible without the aid of plates .
In a 448 Organization of Fossil Plants of the Coal Measures .
[ Mar. 27 , previous memoir ( " Phil. Trans. " 1874 , p. 56 ) , I ventured to doubt the correctness of Mr. Carruthers ' conclusions , and expressed my conviction that these objects resembled spores rather than protozoan skeletons .
Further study of their details of structure has only strengthened this opinion which has also received the important support of Professors Haeckel and Strasburger , of Jena , both of whom have carefully studied my collection of specimens .
These objects are small spheres\#151 ; the sphere-wall of which is prolonged into a series of long radiating tubes not unlike the muricated spines of a Cidaris .
In their young state each murication gives off a delicate thread or threads , which ramified freely in an apparently mucilaginous or gelatinous , structureless , investing magma .
In older specimens these threads developed into branching and radiating cylindrical tubes which , like the primary ones , had very thin walls .
Within the outer sphere-wall , which consists of the coalesced bases of these branching tubes , were at least two other thin layers of membrane , and in several of the specimens the interior of the capsule is filled with cells , exactly like those seen in the corresponding cavities of Lycopodiaceous macrospores found in the Halifax deposits from which the finest Traquairice have been obtained .
These objects differ considerably from all known reproductive structures ; but I agree with Professor Haeckel in his very decided rejection of them from the Radiolarian group of organisms , and with his conclusion that they are vegetable and not animal structures .
Professor Strasburger thinks it most probable that their affinities are with the macrospores of the Rhizocarpae .
In my previous memoir I gave three very small figures of some minute objects , which exactly resemble , in their minutest details , the zygospores of some of the Desmidiaceae .
Many additional examples of these objects have been discovered , enabling me to throw further light upon them .
Their resemblance to these zygospores has been made increasingly obvious , but I dare not venture to assign to them a Desmidiaceous origin , since the most extended research , and the resulting discovery of large numbers of these organisms , have yet failed to bring to light the faintest trace of a true Desmid .
Under these circumstances I have assigned to several species of these organisms the generic name of Zygosporites .
The seed described in my last memoir but one , under the name of Lagenosiorna oroides , always exhibited a thick carbonised testa , in which no structure could be observed .
I have now discovered that the thick outer layer consisted of very hard cubical or slightly oblong schlerenchymatous cells , whilst a thin and delicate inner membrane was composed of small spiral prosenchymatous ones .
An additional specimen of the woody axis of Dadoxylon exhibits the paired divergent structures passing outwards to the back in the shape of two large , radial prolongations of the cellular pith ; and which 1879 .
] Physiology and Histology of Convoluta Schultzii .
449 must obviously have gone off the branches\#151 ; either to ordinary ones or to pairs of fruit-spikes .
Myriads of the vegetable fragments both from Oldham and Halifax are drilled in all directions with rounded insect or worm borings , and further traces of these xylophagous animals are seen in innumerable clusters of small Coprolites ' of various sizes ; the size of those composing each cluster being uniform .
Desirous of verifying Count Castracane 's alleged discovery of Diatoms in coal , specimens of twenty-two examples of coal from various localities in Yorkshire , Lancashire , and Australia were reduced , after the Count 's method , to a small residue of ash .
This work was done for me in the chemical laboratory of Owens College through the kindness of Professor Roscoe .
Like Mr. F. Kitton , of Norwich , the Rev. E. O'Meara , of Dublin , and the Rev. G. Davidson , of Logie Cold-stone , I have failed to discover the slightest trace of these organisms in coal .
The last objects described are some minute organisms from the Carboniferous limestones of Rhydmwyn , in Flintshire , and which were supposed by Professor Judd to have been siliceous Radiolarians from which the silica had disappeared and been replaced by carbonate of lime .
I fail to find any confirmation of this conclusion .
The objects appear to me to constitute an altogether new group of calcareous spherical organisms that may either have been allied to the Foram-nifera , or have had some affinities with the Rhabdoliths and Coccoliths .
I have proposed for several species of the organisms the generic name of Calcisphcera .
Myriads of objects of similar character , but of larger size , constitute the greater portion of a Coruiferous limestone from the Devonian beds of Kelly 's Island , U.S.A. II .
" Observations on the Physiology and Histology of Convoluta Schultzii .
" By P. Geddes .
Communicated by J. Burdon SANDERSON , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physiology in University College , London .
Received March 10 , 1879 .
Paet I.\#151 ; Physiology .
Chlorophylloid green colouring matters are known to exist in the tissues of a not inconsiderable number of animals belonging to very various invertebrate groups\#151 ; Protozoa , Porifera , Coelenterata , Yermes , and even Crustacea ; * but all information as to the function of chlorophyll in the animal organism is wanting .
Wohler , it is true , found many years ago that Chlamydomonas , \amp ; c. , evolve oxygen in sunlight , and Schmidt prepared from Euglena viridis a body isomeric * See list in Sach 's " -Botany , " Eng. ed. , p. 687 , note .

