1879- ] Note on the Spectrum of Hydrogen .
31 6 May we consider the existence of these molecular states as forming a true basis for Dalton 's law of multiple proportions ?
If so , then the metals in different chemical combinations will exist in different molecular groupings , and we shall be able by spectrum observations to determine the particular heat-level to which the molecular complexity of the solid metal , induced by chemical affinity , corresponds .
Examples.\#151 ; None of the lines of magnesium special to the flame spectrum are visible in the spectrum of the chloride either when a flame or a spark is employed .
The facts recorded in my papers , printed in the " Phil. Trans. " some years ago , on the spectra of salts and mixtures , seem all explained in this way .
I think then that the method of mapping , to be complete , should not only show the metallic lines as produced at various temperatures compared with the Fraunhofer ones , but that for each metal investigations should be made and recorded for as many heat-levels as possible , and for various chemical groupings such as CrO Fe2Cl6 CrO , FeCl2 Cr202 Fe Or , to give examples , with a view of investigating the facts , to see whether we can trace a molecular evolution in each case .
Further , the " basic " lines recorded by Thalen will require special study with a view to determine whether their existence in different spectra can be explained or not on the supposition that they represent the vibrations of forms , which , at a early stage of the planet 's history , entered into combination with other forms , differing in proximate origin , to produce different " elements .
" V. " Note on the Spectrum of Hydrogen .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received December 17 , 1879 .
Some years ago , in an account of a research undertaken by Dr. Frankland and myself , it was pointed out that in the tubes we then employed the h line of hydrogen was only seen when the coil and Leyden jar were so arranged as to produce those effects which are generally supposed to be due to high temperatures .
The remark , as we distinctly stated , was only made in connexion with the tubes we then employed , which were of widish bore ; it is necessary to mention this because in Germany the remark has been taken to apply to all tubes .
32 Dr- G- Gore- [ Dec. 18 , In connexion with my present line of work I have had to return to the spectrum of hydrogen , and I have photographed it , using an end-on tube , which I owe to the kindness of Dr. Monkhoven , whose device it is * In the spectrum of the Monkhoven tube h is very well seen , though not so strong as the line near Gr .
What I wish , however , to draw special attention to now , is the fact that other lines more refrangible are seen ; in the photographs I have obtained , one of them , within the limits of dispersion that I have employed ( one dense prism of 60 ' , collimator 18 inches , and a small Dalmeyer rectilinear lens in the camera ) , is coincident with a line observed in the spectrum of calcium at A , 3968'0 ( H ) .
More photographs are required to enable me to give the approximate positions of the other lines more refrangible .
VI .
" On the Capillary Electroscope .
" By Gr .
Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 6 , 1879 .
The following research was commenced with the hope of being able to make an exact measuring instrument of a modified form which I had devised ( see page 3/ ) of the " Capillary Electroscope , " and to employ it for the determination of the different degrees of electromotive force of different metals in forming tables of electro-chemical series , with different electrolytic solutions.f With this object in view , I constructed and tried a considerable number of forms of the instrument ; and employed a number of liquids , acid , neutral , and alkaline , as conducting media between the mercurial electrodes .
In every case , however , an obstacle to uniform and accurate measurement sooner or later arose , viz. , unequal adhesion of the mercury to different parts of the capillary tube .
It has been noticed by other investigators that the motion of the slender column of mercury in Lippmann 's " Capillary Electrometer " suddenly stops whilst under the electric influence , and this has been supposed to increase the value of the instrument by rendering its indications sensibly instantaneous .
According to Lippmann also when the circuit was closed by a metallic conductor , " all irregularities at once disappeared " ( " Phil. Mag. , " April , 1874 , p. 284 ) .
This sudden stoppage of the mercury , however , whilst under the influence of the current is , I believe , in every case due to a sudden increase of mechanical resistance , usually caused by unequal adhesion * It is right to add , however , that this form of tube also suggested itself to Professor Piazzi Smyth quite independently .
f See " On the Chemico-Electric Relations of Metals in Solutions of Salts of Potassium .
"

