XX .
On new compounds of carbon and hydrogen , and on certain other products obtained during the decomposition of oil by heat .
By M. FARADAY , F.R.S. Cor. Mem. Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris , &amp;c. Read June 16 , 1825 .
TH E object of the paper which I have the honour of submitting at this time to the attention of the Royal Society , is to describe particularly two new compounds of carbon and hydrogen , and generally , other products obtained during the decomposition of oil by heat .
My attention was first called to the substances formed in oil at moderate and at high temperatures , in the year 1820 ; and since then I have endeavoured to lay hold of every opportunity for obtaining information on the subject .
A particularly favourable one has been afforded me lately through the kindness of Mr. GORDON , who has furnished me with considerable quantities of a fluid obtained during the compression of oil gas , of which I had some years since possessed small portions , sufficient to excite great interest , but not to satisfy it .
It is now generally known , that in the operations of the Portable Gas Company , when the oil gas used is compressed in the vessels , a fluid is deposited , which may be drawn off and preserved in the liquid state .
The pressure applied amounts to 30 atmospheres ; and in the operation , the gas previously contained in a gasometer over water , first passes into a large strong receiver , and from it , by pipes , into the portable vessels .
It is in the receiver that the condensation principally takes place .
; and it is from that vessel that the liquid I have worked with has been taken .
The fluid is drawn off at the bottom by opening a conical valve : at first a portion of water generally comes out , and then the liquid .
It effervesces as it issues forth ; and by the difference of refractive power it may be seen , that a dense transparent vapour is descending through the air from the aperture .
The effervescence immediately ceases ; and the liquid may be readily retained in ordinary stoppered , or even corked bottles ; a thin phial being sufficiently strong to confine it .
I understand that 1ooo cubical feet of good gas yield nearly one gallon of the fluid .
The substance appears as a thin light fluid ; sometimes transparent and colourless , at others opalescent , being yellow or brown by transmitted , and green by reflected light .
It has the odour of oil gas .
When the bottle containing it is opened , evaporation takes place from the surface of the liquid ; and it may be seen by the strix in the air that vapour is passiitg off from it .
Sometimes in such circumstances it will boil , if the bottle and its contents have had their temperature raised a few degrees .
After a short time this abundant evolution of vapour ceases , and the remaining portion is comparatively fixed .
The specific gravity of this substance is 0.821 .
It does not solidify at a temperature of o ?
F. It is insoluble , or nearly so , in water ; very soluble in alcohol , ether , and volatile and fixed oils .
It is neutral to test colours , It is not more soluble in alkaline solutions than in water ; and only a small portion is acted upon by them .
Muriatic acid has no 4X41 action upon it .
Nitric acid gradually acts upon it , producing nitrous acid , nitric oxide gas , carbonic , and sometimes hydrocyanic acid , &amp;c. but the action is not violent .
Sulphuric acid acts upon it in a very remarkable and peculiar manner , which I shall have occasion to refer to more particularly presently .
This fluid is a mixture of various bodies ; which , though they resemble each other in being highly combustible , and throwing off much smoke when burnt in large flame , may yet by their difference of volatility be separated in part from each other .
Some of it drawn from the condenser , after the pressure had been repeatedly raised to 30 atmospheres , and at a time when it was at 28 atmospheres , then introduced rapidly into a stoppered bottle and closed up , was , when brought home , put into a flask and distilled , its temperature being raised by the hand .
The vapour which came off , and which caused the appearance of boiling , was passed through a glass tube at o ?
, and then conducted to the mercurial trough ; but little uncondensed vapour came over , not more than thrice the bulk of the liquid ; a portion of fluid collected in the cold tube , which boiled and evaporated when the temperature was allowed to rise ; and the great bulk of the liquid which remained , might now be raised to a comparatively high point , before it entered into ebullition .
A thermometer being introluced into another portion of the fluid , heat was applied , so as to keep the temperature just at the boiling point .
When the vessel containing it was opened , it began to boil at 60 ?
F. As the more volatile portions were dissipated , the temperature rose : before a tenth part had been thrown off , the temperature was above 10oo ? ?
442 The heat continued gradually to rise , and before the substance was all volatized , it had attained 25o ? .
With the hope of separating some distinct substances from this evident mixture , a quantity of it was distilled , and the vapours condensed at a temperature of o ?
into separate portions , the receiver being changed with each rise of 10 ?
in the retort , and the liquid retained in a state of incipient ebullition .
In this way a succession of products were obtained ; but they were by no means constant ; for the portions , for instance , which came over when the fluid was boiling from 160 ?
to 170 ?
, when redistilled , began to boil at 130o , and a part remained which did not rise under 200 ? .
By repeatedly rectifying all these portions , and adding similar products together , I was able to diminish these differences of temperature , and at last bring them more nearly to resemble a series of substances of different volatility .
' During these operations I had occasion to remark , that the boiling point was more constant at , or between 176 ?
and 19o ?
, than at any other temperature ; large quanities of fluid distilling over without any change in the degree ; whilst in other parts of the series it was constantly rising .
This induced me to search in the products obtained between these points for some definite substance , and I ultirnately succeeded in separating a new compound of carbon and hydrogen , which I may by anticipation distinguish as bi-carburet of hydrogen , Bi-carburet of hydrogen .
This substance was obtained in the first instance in the following manner : tubes containing portions of the above rectified products were introduced into a freezing mixture at o ?
; many of them became turbid , probably from the presence of water ; one , received at 1760 , ( by which is meant that that was the boiling point of the contents of the retort when it came over ) became partly solid , crystals forming round the side , and a fluid remaining in the centre ; whilst two other portions , one received at 186 ?
, and the other at 190 ?
, became quite hard .
A cold glass rod being introduced into one of these tubes , the mass within was found to resist considerable pressure ; but by breaking it down , a solid part was thrust to the bottom of the tube , whilst a fluid remained above : the fluid was poured off , and in this way the solid portion partly purified .
The contents of the tube were then allowed to fuse , were introduced into a larger and stronger tube , furnished with another which entered loosely within it , both being closed of course at the lower end ; then again lowering the temperature of the whole to oo , bibulous paper was introduced , and pressed on to the surface of the solid substance in the large tube by the end of the smaller one .
In this way much fluid was removed by successive portions of paper , and a solid substance remained , which did not become fluid until raised to 28 ?
or 29 ? .
To complete the separation of the permanently fluid part , the substance was allowed to melt , then cast into a cake in a tin foil mould , and pressed between many folds of bibulous paper in a BRAMAH'S press , care having been taken to cool the paper , tin foil , flannel , boards , and other things used , as near to o ?
as possible , to prevent solution of the solid substance in the fluid part to be removed .
It was ultimately distilled from off caustic lime , to separate any water it might contain .
The general process , which appears to me to be the best *444 for the preparation of this substance only , is to distil a portion of the fluid deposited during the condensation of oil gas , to set aside the product obtained before the temperature rises to 170 ?
, to collect that which comes over by 180 ?
, again separately that which comes over by 190 ?
, and also the portion up to 2oo ?
or 2100 .
That before 170 ?
will upon redistillation yield portions to be added to those of 180 ?
and 90o ?
; and the part obtained from 190o upwards will also , when redistilled ; yield quantities boiling over at 180 ?
, 1900 , &amp;c. Having then these three portions obtained at 1800 , 190 , and 200 ?
, let them be rectified one after the other , and the products between 175 ?
and 195 ?
received in three or four parts at successive temperatures .
Then proceed with these as before described .
It will sometimes happen , when the proportion of bi-carburet of hydrogen is small in the liquid , that the rectifications must be many times repeated before the fluids at 185 ?
and 190o will deposit crystals on cooling ; that is to say , before sufficient of the permanently fluid part at low temperatures has been removed , to leave a solution so saturated as to crystallize at o ?
Bi-carburet of hydrogen appears in common circumstances as a colourless transparent liquid , having an odour resembling that of oil gas , and partaking also of that of almonds .
Its specific gravity is nearly 0.85 at 60 ? .
When cooled to about s3 it crystallizes , becoming solid ; and the portions which are on the sides of the glass exhibit dendritical forms .
By having tubes containing thin solid films of it in ice-cold water , and allowing the temperature to rise slowly , its fusing point was found to be very nearly 42 ?
F. ; but when 445 liquid it may , like water and some saline solutions , be cooled much below that point before any part becomes solid .
It contracts very much on congealing , g parts in bulk becoming 8 very nearly ; hence its specific gravity in that state is about 0.956 .
At o ?
it appears as a white or transparent substance , brittle , pulverulent , and of the hardness nearly of loaf sugar .
It evaporates entirely when exposed to the air .
Its boiling point in contact with glass is 186 ? .
The specific gravity of its vapour , corrected to a temperature of 60 ?
, is nearly 40 Hydrogen being i ; for 2.3 grains became 3.52 cubic inches of vapour at 212 ? .
Barometer 29.98 .
Other experiments gave a mean approaching very closely to this result .
It does not conduct electricity .
This substance is very slightly soluble in water ; very soluble in fixed and volatile oils , in ether , alcohol , &amp;c. ; the alcoholic solution being precipitated by water .
It burns with a bright flame and much smoke .
When admitted to oxygen gas , so much vapour rises as to make a powerfully detonating mixture .
When passed through a red hot tube it gradually deposits carbon , yielding carburetted hydrogen gas .
Chlorine introduced to the substance in a retort exerted but little action until placed in sun-light , when dense fumes were formed , without the evolution of much heat ; and ultimately much muriatic acid was produced , and two other substances , one a solid crystalline body , the other a dense thick fluid .
It was found by further examination , that neither of these were soluble in water ; that both were soluble in alcohol the liquid readily , the solid with more difficulty .
Both of them appeared to be triple compounds of chlorine , carbon , and hydrogen ; but I reserve the consideration of these , and of other similar compounds , to another opportunity .
Iodine appears to exert no action upon the substance in several days in sun-light ; it dissolves in the liquid in small quantity , forming a crimson solution .
Potassium heated in the liquid did not lose its brilliancy , or exert any action upon it , at a temperature of i86 ? .
Solution of alkalis , or their carbonates , had no action upon it .
Nitric acid acted slowly upon the substance and became red , the fluid remaining colourless .
When cooled to 32 ?
, the substance became solid and of a fine red colour , which disappeared upon fusion .
The odour of the substance with the acid was exceedingly like that of almonds , and it is probable that hydrocyanic acid was formed .
When washed with water , it appeared to have undergone little or no change .
Sulphuric acid added to it over mercury exerted a moderate action upon it , little or no heat was evolved , no blackening took place , no sulphurous acid was formed ; but the acid became of a light yellow colour , and a portion of a clear colourless fluid floated , which appeared to be a product of the action .
When separated , it was found to be bright and clear , not affected by water or more sulphuric acid , solidifying at about 34 ?
, and being then white , crystalline , and dendritical .
The substance was lighter than water , soluble in alcohol , the solution being precipitated by a small quantity of water , but becoming clear by great excess.* With regard to the composition of this substance , my experiments tend to prove it a binary compound of carbon and hydrogen , two proportionals of the former element being united to one of the latter .
The absence of oxygen is proved by the inaction of potassium , and the results obtained when passed through a red hot tube .
The following is a result obtained when it was passed in vapour over heated oxide of copper .
0.776 grains of the substance produced 5.6 cubic inches of carbonic acid gas , at a temperature of 60 ?
, and pressure 29.98 inches ; and 0.58 grains of water were collected .
The 5.6 cubic inches of gas are equivalent to o.711704 grains of carbon by calculation , and the 0.58 grains of water to o.o64444 of hydrogen .
Carbon. .
6.711r70 or 11.44 Hydrogen .
o.o64444 or i. These quantities nearly equal in weight the weight of the substance used ; and making the hydrogen 1 , the carbon is not far removed from 12 , or two proportionals .
those bodies which have elasticity enough to exist as vapours when alone at common pressures , are absorbed .
No sulphurous acid is produced ; nor when the acid is diluted , does any separation of the gas , vapour or substance take place , except of a small portion of a peculiar product resulting from the action of the acid on the substances , and dissolved hy it .
The acid combines directly with carbon and hydrogen ; and I find when united with bases forms a peculiar class of salts , somewhat resembling the sulphovinates , but still different from them .
I find also that sulphuric acid will condense and combine with olefiant gas , no carbon being separated , or sulphurous or carbonic acid being formed ; and this absorption has in the course of i8 days amounted to 84.7 volumes of olefiant gas to i volume of sulphuric acid .
The acid produced combines with bases , &amp;c. forming peculiar salts , which I have not yet had time , but which it is my intention , to examine , as well as the products formed by the action of sulphuric acid on naphtha , essential oils , &amp;c. and even upon starch and lignine , in the production of sugar , gum , &amp;c. where no carbonization takes place , but where similar results seem to occur .
448 Four other experiments gave results all approximating to the above .
The mean result was i hydrogen , 11.576 carbon .
Now considering that the substance must , according to the manner in which it was prepared , still retain a portion of the body boiling at 186 ?
, but remaining fluid at o ?
, and which substance I find , as will be seen hereafter , to contain less carbon than the crystalline compound , ( only about 8.25 to 1 of hydrogen , ) it may be admitted , I think , that the constant though small deficit of carbon found in the experiments is due to the portion so retained ; and that the crystalline compound would , if pure , yield 12 of carbon for each i of hydrogen ; or two proportionals of the former element and one of the latter .
2 proportionals carbon .
1 } bit of I bydrogen I is bil-carburet of hydrogen , X hydrogen i ) This result is confirmed by such data as I have been able to obtain by detonating the vapour of the substance with oxygen .
Thus in one experiment o1092 mercury grain measures of oxygen at 62o had such quantity of the substance introduced into it as would entirely rise in vapour ; the volume increased to 8505 , hence the vapour amounted to 413 parts , or - .
of the mixture nearly .
Seven volumes of this mixture were detonated in an eudiometer tube by an electric spark , and diminished in consequence nearly to 6.1 : these acted upon by potash were further diminished to 4 , which were pure oxygen .
Hence 3 volumes of mixture had been detonated , of which nearly 0.34 was vapour of the substance , and 2.65 oxygen .
The carbonic acid amounted to 2.1 volumes , and must have consumed an equal bulk of oxygen gas ; so that 0.55 remain as the quantity of oxygen which of carbon and hydrogen , &amp;c. 449 has combined with the hydrogen to form water , and which with the 0.34 of vapour nearly make the diminution of 0.9 .
It will be seen at once that the oxygen required for the carbon is four times that for the hydrogen ; and that the whole statement is but little different from the following theoretical one , deduced partly from the former experiments .
1 volume of vapour requires 7.5 volumes of oxygen for its combustion ; 6 of the latter combine with carbon to form 6 of carbonic acid , and the 1.5 remaining combine with hydrogen to form water .
The hydrogen present therefore in this compound is equivalent to 3 volumes , though condensed into one volume in union with the carbon ; and of the latter elements there are present six proportionals , or s6 by weight .
A volume therefore of the substance in vapour contains Carbon 6x6= s6 Hydrogen x3 s3 39 and its weight or specific gravity will be 39 , hydrogen being i. Other experiments of aq , same kind gave results according with these .
Among the liquid products obtained from the original fluid was one which , procured as before mentioned , by submitting to o ?
the portion distilling over at 180 ?
or 190o , corresponded with the substance already described , as to boiling points , but differed from it in remaining fluid at low temperatures ; and I was desirous of comparing the two together .
I had no means of separating this body from the 450 bi-carburet of hydrogen , of which it would of course be a saturated solution at o ? .
Its boiling point was very constantly 186 ? .
In its general characters of solubility , combustibility , action of potassium , &amp;c. it agreed with the substance already described .
Its specific gravity was o.86 at 60 ? .
When raised in vapour 1.11 grain of it gave 1.573 cubic inches of vapour at 2120 , equal to 1.212 cubic inches at 60 .
Hence 1oo cubic inches would weigh about 91.6 grains , and its specific gravity would be 43.25 nearly .
In another experiment , 1.72 grains gave 2.4 cubic inches at 212 ?
, equal to 1.849 cubic inches at 60 ?
; from which the weight of ioo cubic inches would be deduced as 93 grains ; and its specific gravity to hydrogen as 44 to i. Hence probably the reason why , experimentally , the specific gravity of bi-carburet of hydrogen in vapour was found higher , than by theory it would appear to be when pure .
Sulphuric acid acted much more powerfully upon this substance than upon the bi-carburet : great heat was evolved , much discolouration occasioned , and a separation took place into a thick black acid , and a yellow lighter liquid , resisting any further action at common temperatures .
o.64 grains of this substance were passed over heated oxide of copper ; 4.51 cubic inches of carbonic acid gas were obtained , and 0o6 grains of water .
The carbonic acid and water are equivalent to Carbon 0.573176 , or 8.764 Hydrogen o.o66666 1 .
but as the substance must have contained much bi-carburet of hydrogen , it is evident that , if in a pure state , the carbon would fall far short of the above quantity , and the compound would approximate of course to a simple carburet of hydrogen containing single proportionals .
New carburet of hydrogen .
Of the various other products from the condensed liquor , the next most definite to the bi-carburet of hydrogen appears to be that which is most volatile .
If a portion of the original liquid be warmed by the hand , or otherwise , and the vapour which passes off be passed through a tube at o ?
, very little uncondensed vapour will go on to the mercurial trough ; but there will be found after a time a portion of fluid in the tube , distinguished by the following properties .
Though a liquid at oo , it upon slight elevation of temperature begins to boil , and before it has attained 32 ?
, is all resolved into vapour or gas , which may be received and preserved over mercury .
This gas is very combustible , and burns with a brilliant flame .
The specific gravity of the portion I obtained was between 27 and 28 , hydrogen being i : for 39 cubic inches introduced into an exhausted glass globe were found to increase its weight 22.4 grains at 60 ?
F. bar .
29.94 .
Hence 1oo cubic inches weigh nearly 57.44 grains .
When cooled to o ?
it condensed again , and enclosed in this state in a tube of known capacity , and hermetically sealed up , the bulk of a given weight of the substance at common temperatures was ascertained .
This compared with water gave the specific gravity of the liquid as 0.627 at 54 ? .
It is therefore among solids or liquids the lightest body known .
This gas or vapour when agitated with water is absorbed in small quantities .
Alcohol dissolves it in large quantity ; and a solution is obtained , which , upon the addition of water , effervesces , and a considerable quantity of the gas is liberated .
The alcoholic solution has a peculiar taste , and is neutral to test papers .
Olive oil dissolves about six volumes of the gas .
Solution of alkali does not affect it ; nor does muriatic acid , Sulphuric acid condenses the gas in very large quantity ; i volume of the acid condensing above 1oo volumes of the vapour .
Sometimes the condensation is perfect , at other times a small quantity of residual gas is left , which burns with a pale blue flame , and seems to be a product of too rapid action .
Great heat is produced during the action ; no sulphurous acid is formed ; the acid is much blackened , has a peculiar odour , and upon dilution generally becomes turbid , but no gas is evolved .
A permanent compound of the acid with carbon and hydrogen is produced , and enters as before mentioned into combination with bases .
A mixture of 2 volumes of this vapour with 14 volumes of pure oxygen was made , and a portion detonated in an eudiometer tube .
8.8 volumes of the mixture diminished by the spark to 5.7 volumes , and these by solution of potash to 1.4 volumes , which were oxygen .
Hence 7.4 volumes had been consumed , consisting of Vapour of substance 1.1 Oxygen 6 .
Carbonic acid formed 4.3 Oxygen in carbonic acid.3 Oxygen combining with hydrogen 2.0 Diminution by spark .
This is nearly as if 1 volume of the vapour or gas had required 6 volumes of oxygen , had consumed 4 of them in 453 producing 4 of carbonic acid gas , and had occupied the other 2 by 4 of hydrogen to form water .
Upon which view , 4 volumes or proportionals of hydrogen =4 , are combined with 4 proportionals of carbon = 24 , to form one volume of the vapour , the specific gravity of which would therefore be 28 .
Now this is but little removed from the actual specific gravity obtained by the preceding experiments ; and knowing that this vapour must contain small portions of other substances in solution , there appears no reason to doubt that , if obtained pure , it would be found thus constituted .
As the proportions of the elements in this vapour appear to be the same as in olefiant gas , it became interesting to ascertain whether chlorine had the same action upon it as on the latter body .
Chlorine and the vapour were therefore mixed in an exhausted retort : rapid combination took place , much heat was evolved , and a liquor produced resembling hydro-chloride of carbon , or the substance obtained by the same process from olefiant gas .
It was transparent , colourless , and heavier than watef .
It had the same sweet taste , but accompanied by an after aromatic bitterness , very persistent .
Further , it was composed of nearly equal volumes of the vapour and chlorine : it could not therefore be the same as the hydro-chloride of carbon from olefiant gas , since it contained twice as much carbon and hydrogen .
It was therefore treated with excess of chlorine in sun-light : action slowly took place , more chlorine combined with the substance , muriatic acid was formed , and ultimately a fluid tenacious triple compound of chlorine , carbon , and hydrogen was obtained ; but no chloride of carbon .
This is a remarkable circumstance , and assists in showing , that though the 454 elements are the same , and in the same proportions as in olefiant gas , they are in a very different state of combination .
The tension of the most volatile part of the condensed oil gas liquid , and indeed of the substance next beneath olefiant gas in elasticity existing in the mixture constituting oil gas , appears to be equal to about 4 atmospheres at the temperature of 6o . ?
To ascertain this a tube was prepared , like the one delineated in the sketch , Fig. i , containing a mercurial a ~c ~b F~ig 2 .
t gauge at a. c. and the extremities being open .
It was then cooled to oo from a to b , and in that state made the receiver into which the first product from a portion of the original fluid was distilled .
: The part at b was then closed by a spirit lamp ; and having raised enough vapour to make it issue at Note .
The particular inclination of the parts of the tube one to another was given , that the fluid when required might be returned from a to d without passing on to 6 .
455 that was also closed .
The instrument now placed as at Fig. S , had a and d cooled to o ?
, whilst the fluid collected in b was warmed by the hand or the air ; and when a portion had collected in d sufficient for the purpose , the whole instrument was immersed in water at 60 ?
; and before the vapour had returned and been all dissolved by the liquid at b , the pressure upon the gauge within was noted .
Sometimes the fluid at d was rectified by warming that part of the tube , and cooling a only , the reabsorption at b being prevented or rather retarded , in consequence of the superior levity of the fluid at d , so that the first portions which returned to b lay upon it in a stratum , and prevented sudden solution in the mass below .
This difference in specific gravity was easily seen upon agitation , in consequence of the striae produced during the mixture .
Proceeding in this way it was found , as before stated , that the highest elastic power that could be obtained from the substances in the tube , was about 4 atmospheres at 600 ; and as there seems no reason to doubt , but that portions of the most volatile substances in oil gas beneath olefiant gas were contained in the fluid , inasmuch as even olefiant gas itself is dissolved by it in small proportions , it may be presumed that there is no substance in oil gas much more volatile than the one requiring a pressure of 4 atmospheres at 60 ?
, except the well known compounds ; or , in other words , that there is not a series of substances passing upwards from this body to olefiant gas , and possessing every intermediate degree of elasticity , as there seems to be from this body downwards , to compounds requiring b25o or 300oo for their ebullition .
In reference to these more volatile products , I may state 4g6 that I have frequently observed a substance come over in small quantity , rising with the vapour which ' boils off at 50 ?
or 60 , and crystallizing in spiculae in the receiver at o ? .
A temperature of 80 or 10 ?
causes its fusion and disappearance .
It is doubtless a peculiar and definite body , but the quantity is , extremely small , or else it is very soluble in the accompanying fluids .
I have not yet been able to separate it , or examine it minutely .
I ventured some time since upon the condensation of various gases , * to suggest the possibility of forming a vapour lamp , which containing a brilliantly combustible substance , liquid at a pressure of two , three , or four atmospheres at common temperatures , but a vapour at less pressure , should furnish a constant light for a length of time , without requiring high , or involving inconstant , pressure .
Such a lamp I have now formed , feeding it with the substance just described ; and though at present it is only a matter of curiosity , and perhaps may continue so , yet there is a possibility that processes may be devised , by which the substance may be formed in larger quantity , and render an application of this kind practically useful .
On the remaining portions of the condensed oil gas liquor .
It has been before mentioned , that by repeated distillations various products were obtained , boiling within limits of temperature which did not vary much ; and which when distilled were not resolved into other portions , differing far from each other in volatility , as always happened in the earlier distillations .
Though conscious that there were mixtures , perhaps of unknown bodies , and certainly in unknown proportions ; yet experiments were made on their composition by passing them over oxide of copper , in hopes of results which might assist in suggesting correct views of their nature .
They all appeared to be binary compounds of carbon and hydrogen , and the following table exhibits the proportions obtained : the first column expressing the boiling temperature at which the products were distilled , as before mentioned ; the second the hydrogen , made a constant quantity ; and the third the carbon .
140 7.58 1500 1 8.38 60o 1 7.90 1760 1 8.25 1o ?
0 1 8.76 200 1 9.17 210 1 8.91 eo20 1 8.46 These substances generally possess the properties before described , as belonging to the bi-carburet of hydrogen .
They all resist the action of alkali , even that which requires a temperature above 250 ?
for its ebullition ; and in that point are strongly distinguished from the oils from which they are produced .
Sulphuric acid acts upon them instantly with phenomena already briefly referred to .
Dr. HENRY , whilst detailing the results of his numerous and exact experiments in papers laid before the Royal Society , mentions in that read February 22 , 1821 , * the discovery made by Mr. DALTON , of a vapour in oil gas of greater specific gravity than olefiant gas , requiring much more oxygen for its combustion , but yet condensible by chlorine .
Mr. DALTON appears to consider all that was condensible by chlorine as a new and constant compound of carbon and hydrogen ; but Dr. HENRY , who had observed that the proportion of oxygen required for its combustion varied from 4,5 to 5 volumes , and the quantity of carbonic acid produced , from 2,5 to s volumes , was inclined to consider it as a mixture of the vapour of a highly volatile oil with the olefiant and other combustible gases ; and he further mentions , that naphtha in contact with hydrogen gas will send up such a vapour ; and that he has been informed , that when oil gas was condensed in GORDON'S lamp , it deposited a portion of highly volatile oil .
A writer in the Annals of Philosophy , N. S. III .
37 , has deduced from Dr. HENRY'S experiments , that the substance , the existence of which was pointed out by Mr. DALTON , was not a new gas sui generis , " but a modification of olefiant gas , constituted of the same elements as that fluid , and in the same proportions , with this only difference , that the compound atoms are triple instead of double : " and Dr. THOMSON has adopted this opinion in his Principles of Chemistry .
This , I believe , is the first time that two gaseous compounds have been supposed to exist , differing from each each other in nothing but density ; and though the proportion of 3 to 2 is not confirmed , yet the more important part of the statement is , by the existence of the compound deiscribed at page 452 , which though composed of carbon and hydrogen in the same proportion as in olefiant gas , is of double the density.* It is evident , that the vapour observed by Mr. DALTON and Dr. HENRY must have contained not only this compound , and a portion of the bi-carburet of hydrogen , but also portions of the other , as yet apparently indefinite substances ; and there can be no doubt that the quantity of these vapours will vary-from the point of full saturation of the gas , when In reference to the existence of bodies composed of the same elements and in the same proportions , but differing in their qualities , it may be observed , that now we are taught to look for them , they will probably multiply upon us .
I had occasion formerly to describe a compound of olefiant gas and iodine ( Phil. Trans. CXI .
72 ) , which upon analysis yielded one proportional of iodine , two proportionals of carbon , and two of hydrogen , ( Quarterly Journal , XIII .
429 ) .
M. SERRULAS , by the action of potassium upon an alcoholic solution of iodine , obtained a compound decidedly different from the preceding in its properties ; yet when analysed , ityielded the same elements in the sameproportions , ( Ann. de Chimie , XX .
245 , XXII 172 ) .
Again .
MM .
LIEBIG and GAY LussAC , after an elaborate and beautiful investigation of the nature of fulminating compounds of silver , mercury , &amp;c. were led to the conclusion that they were salts , containing a new acid , and owed their explosive powers to the facility with which the elements of this acid separated from each other .
( Annals de Chimie , XXIV 294 , XXV .
285 ) .
The acid itself being composed of one proportional of oxygen , one of nitrogen , and two of carbon , is equivalent to a proportional of oxygen +a proportional of cyanogen , and istherefore considered as a true cyanic acid .
But M. WOHLER , by deflagrating together a mixture of ferro-prussiate of potash and nitre , has formed a salt , which , according to his analysis , is a true cyanate of potash .
The acid consists of one proportion of oxygen , one of nitrogen , and two of carbon .
-It may be transferred to various other bases , as the earths , the oxides of lead , silver , &amp; c ; but the salts formed have nothing in common with the similar salts of MM .
LIEBIG and GAY LUSsAC , except their composition , ( GILBERT'S Annalen , LXXIII .
57 .
Ann. de Chimie , XXVII .
190 ) .
M. GAY LuSSAC observes , that if the analysis be correct , the difference can only be accounted for by admitting different mode of combination .
standing over water and oil , to unknown , but much smaller proportions .
It is therefore an object in the analysis of oil and coal gas , to possess means by which their presence and quantity may be ascertained ; and this I find may be done with considerable exactness by the use of sulphuric acid , oil , &amp;c. in consequence of their solvent power over them .
Sulphuric acid is in this respect a very excellent agent .
It acts upon all these substances instantly , evolving no sulphurous acid ; and though , when the quantity of substance is considerable as compared with the acid , a body is left undecomposed by , or uncombined with the acid , and volatile , so as constantly to afford a certain portion f vapour ; yet when the original substance is in small quantity , as where it exists in vapour in a given volume of gas , this does not interfere , in consequence of the solubility of the vapour of the new compound produced by the action of the acid in the acid itself in small quantities : and I found that when i volume of the vapour of any of the products of the oil gas liquor was acted upon , either alone , or mixed with i , 3 , 3 , 4 , up to 12 volumes of air , oxygen orhydrogen , by from half a volume to a volume of sulphuric acid , it was entirely absorbed and removed .
When olefiant gas is present , additional care is required in analytical experiments , in consequence of the gradual combination of the olefiant gas with the sulphuric acid .
I found that x volume of sulphuric acid in abundance of olefiant gas , absorbed about 7 volumes in 24 hours in the dull light of a room ; sun-shine seemed to increase the action a little , When the olefiant gas was diluted with air or hydrogen , the quantity absorbed in a given time was much diminished ; and in those cases it was hardly appreciable in two hours : a length of time which appears to be quite sufficient for the removal of any of the peculiar vapours from oil or coal gas .
My mode of operating was generally in glass tubes over clean mercury , * introducing the gas , vapour or mixture , and then throwing up the sulphuric acid by means of a bent tube with a bulb blown in it , passing the acid through the mercury by the force of the mouth .
The following results are given as illustrations of the process : Oil gas from a gasometer .
in 8 ' in i hour .
2 hours .
diminut 1 .
+ 9.5 vol. sulphuric acid diminished to I55 48.5 146.4 22.12 per + 13 .
88.5 84.5 882.0 23.33 + 5.2 -O 113.7 io8.o io6.5 22.82 I24 + 6.8 159 + 5.9 i13 + 12.2 + 27.6 + 27.8 + 13.1 Oil gas from GORDoN 's lamp .
15 ' 30 ? . .
1x83.3 180.8.137.5 136.o 98.o 96.o Coal gas of poor quality .
533.3 529.2.._ _ 267.9 266 ~ .
x~i86 .
184.2 3 hours .
176 .
130.4 92.0 529 266 184.1 17.75 17.98 18.58 3.57 2.78 3.41 Oil may also be used in a similar manner for the separation of these vapours .
It condenses about 6 volumes of the most elastic vapour at common temperatures , and it dissolves with greater facility the vapour of those liquids requiring higher temperatures for their ebullition .
I found that in mixtures made with air or oxygen for detonation , I could readily separate the vapour by means of olive oil ; and when olefiant and other gases were present , its solvent power over them was prevented , by first agitating the oil with olefiant gas or with a portion of the gas to saturate it , and then using it for the removal of the vapours .
In the same way some of the more fixed essential oils may be used , as dry oil of turpentine ; and even a portion of the condensed liquor itself , as that part which requires a temperature of 22oo or 230o for its ebullition : care being taken to estimate the expansion of the gas by the vapour of the liquid , which may readily be done by a known portion of common airpreserved over the liquid as a standard .
With reference to the proportions of the different substances in the liquid as obtained by condensation of oil gas , it is extremely difficult to obtain any thing like precise results , in consequence of the immense number of rectifications required to separate the more volatile from the less volatile portions ; but the following table will furnish an approximation .
It contains the loss of loo parts by weight of the original fluid by evaporation in a flask for every 1o ?
in elevation of temperature , the substance being retained in a state of ebullition .
ioo parts at 58 ?
parts .
differences .
had lost at 70 ? .
1.9 80 3.0 2.2 90 ? ?
5.2.5 oo ? ?
7.7 2.4 110 10.1 3.1 1o20 ? ?
132 9 .
1O0 1:6.1 3.2 140 ? ?
19.3 3.1 150 ? ?
22 4 3.2 160 ? ?
25.6 3.4 170 0 29 .
15.7 180 44.7 23.4 19 ? ?
68.1 23.4 2,0 ? ?
84.2 16.1 210 ? ?
91.6 7.4 22o ? ?
95.3 3.7 2300 96.6 1.3 The residue 3.4 parts was dissipated before 250o with slight decomposition .
The third column expresses the quantity volatilized between each lo ?
, and indicates the existence of what has been described as bi-carburet of hydrogen in considerable quantity .
The importance of these vapours in oil gas , as contributing to its very high illuminating powers , will be appreciated , when it is considered that with many of them , and those of the denser kind , it is quite saturated .
On distilling a portion of liquid , which had condensed in the pipes leading to an oil gas gasometer , and given to me by Mr. HENNEL , of the Apothecaries ' Hall , I found it to contain portions of the bi-carburet of hydrogen .
It was detected by submitting the small quantity of liquid which distilled over before 190 ?
to a cold of o ?
, when the substance crystallized from the solution .
It is evident therefore , that the gas from which it was deposited must have been saturated with it .
On distilling a portion of recent 464 coal gas tar , as was expected , none could be detected in it , but the action of sulphuric acid is sufficient to show the existence of some of these bodies in the coal gas itself .
With respect to the probable uses of the fluid from compressed oil gas , it is evident in the first place , that being thus volatile , it will if introduced into gas which burns with a pale flame , give such quantity of vapour as to make it brightly illuminating ; and even the vapour of those portions which require temperatures of 170 ?
i8o ?
or higher for their ebullition , is so dense as to be fully sufficient for this purpose in small quantities .
A taper was burnt out in a jar of common air over water ; a portion of fluid boiling at 1900 was thrown up into it , and agitated ; the mixture then burnt from a large aperture with the bright flame and appearance of oil gas , though of course many times the quantity that would have been required of oil gas for the same light was consumed : at the same time there was no mixture of blueness with the flame , whether it were large or small .
Mr. GORDON has I understand proposed using it in this manner .
The fluid is also an excellent solvent of caoutchouc , surpassing every other substance in this quality .
It has already been applied to this purpose .
It will answer all the purposes to which the essential oils are applied as solvents , as in varnishes , &amp;c. and in some cases where volatility is required , when rectified it will .
far surpass them .
It is possible that , at some future time , when we better understand the minute changes which take place during the decomposition of oil , fat , and other substances by heat , and have more command of the , process , that this substance , 465 among others , may furnish the fuel for a lamp , which remaining a fluid at the pressure of two or three atmospheres , but becoming a vapour at less pressure , shall possess all the advantages of a gas lamp , without involving the necessity of high pressure .
Potal Institution , June 7 , 1825-

