II .
" Researches on the Phosphorus-Bases."-No .
VI .
Phosphammoniurm-Compounds .
By A. W. HOIFMANN , LLJDY , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received June 1 , 1859 .
In several previous communications *I have shown that dibromide of ethylene is capable of fixing either onie or two molecules of tri .
ethylphosphine , a monatomic and a diatomlc bromide being formed , which I have respectively represented by the formulmMonatomic bromide .
CL H5 CIO I-I1 , PBr2= ( C4 I)f Br .
( C4 11)3 PC4 1115 P Br C4 II5 ( 01 11-1 , Br)J and Diatomic bromide , 028 134 P , Bra= ( 0A I)'t Br , +2 ( ( 0 , I , )3 P ) = ( Co H)2 p L-A Ho ) " There are other products formed , resulting from secondary reactions .
It was not quite easy to obtain a sufficiently satisfactory experimental foundation for the diatomnic nature of the second compound .
This substance presents an extraordinary degree of stability ; in its gerneral characters it is closely allied to the numerous monatomic bromides , both of the nitrogenand of the phosphorus-series , which in the course of these researches have come under my consideration .
Lastly , the oxygenated derivative of the bromide resembles so perfectly the monammoniumand the monophosphonium-bases , that more than once during my experiments I was inclined to doubt the correctniess of my interpretation .
There is no direct proof of the diatomic character of the compound .
Why should we reject the simple formula deducible from experiment ?
The hydrocarbons Qe H1 , are very prone to molecular transformations without change of composition , The idea suggested itself , that the diatomic saline molecule might be split into two monatomic saline molecules , E(0 , 115 ) ( 0 , 1H4 ' P2]]t " Br2 2 ( ( 0 C115)3 ( C0112 ) ' P Br ) .
It is true C2 1-12 figures in this formula as monatomic , whilst we should expect it endowed with diatomic substitution-power .
But the connexion between composition and substitution-power is by no means finally settled ; in fact , we know of many cases in which , under conditions not sufficiently established , the atomicity of a molecule changes : witness the radical " allyl , " which is capable of replacing one or three equivalents of hydrogen .
But without going this length , the scission of diatomic ethylene into two monatomie molecules may take place in many other ways .
The transformation of dibromide of ethylene into hydrobromiic acid and bromide of vinyl , _1(C LJ4)"/ Br2= I-IBr + ( C4 H13 ) Br , is a familiar example , The splitting of the etbylene-compound into bromide of formyl and bromide of methyl , ( 04 14)f Br3= ( C0 H ) Br+ ( C2 13 ) Br , has never been observed , but did not appear altogether unlikely .
Our analytical methods are insufficient to distinguish between [ ( C4 11)3 ( C2 112 ) P Br and [ ( C4 H1)3 ( C2 1 ) P ] Br ; and what I have represented as a diatomic ethylene-compound might have been , after all , a monatomic bromide the bromide of formyl-triethylphosphonium , the complementary methyl-comnpouns(d [ ( 04 HA)3 ( C2 113 ) P ] Br existing possibly among the secondary products of decomposition .
In the presence of these and several similar self-raised objections , by which every observer endeavours to test the truth of his conclusions , I was induced again to appeal to experiment .
The prosecution of this line of the inquiry has led me to the discovery of a new class of diatomic bodies , which , while it confirms inconitestably the correctness of my interpretation , appears to claim the attention of chemists for several other reasons .
I have established , in the first place , that the monatomic bromide [ ( C4 113)3 ( C4 114 Br ) P ] Br may be readily converted into the diatomic bromide [ ( 04 115)6 ( C4 114 ) " P2 Bf r2 by the simple addition of triethylphosphine .
Nothing is easier than to prove the transformation , the platinum-salt of the two bases pre senting a renmarkable differentce of solubility , and other differenees not less striking .
To remove every doubt , the bromide , obtained by treatment of the brominetted bromide with triethylphosphine , was converted into the corresponding icdide , which in its properties and composition was found to be identical in every respect with the characteristic iodide , which I have fully described in my last note upon this subject .
The transformation of the monatomic into what I have represented as the diatomic compound being satisfactorily established , the cone elusive experimental demonstration of the diatomic nature of the latter presented itself without difficulty in the conceptioni of bromides containing at once phosphorus and nitrogen , the molecular expression of which would no longer admit of division .
This class of dibromides actually exists ; they are readily produced by submitting the bromide of the brominetted body to the action of ammonia or monamines instead of triethylphosphine .
I have formed as yet only three representatives of this new class of bodies , which I propose to designate as phosphammonium-compounds ; their examination is sufficient to fix the character of the class ; it would have been easy to construct scores of similar bodies .
Action of Ammonia upon the 6romide of the brominetted body .
The two substances , especially when in alcoholic solution , unite with evolution of heat(C8 , H , )3 p/ [ ( 0415)3 ( C4 114 Br ) P ] Br 113N= ( C4 ll)H ' tif Br2 .
Both the bromide and the corresponding chloride are very soluble , and little adapted for analysis ; I have therefore fixed the nature of this body by the preparation and analysis of the platinum-compound .
For this purpose the bromide generated in the above reaction was treated with oxide of silver ; it is thus converted into a powerfully alkaline solution ob-viously of the dioxide , ( 04115)3 p7 I L(CAH ) " CH ' N 4O4s 1T1j which , saturated with hydrochiloric acid and mixed with dichloride of platinum , furnished a light-yellow crystalline platinumn-salt , recrystallizable from boiling-water , and contain'ing [ ( C I-5 ) , I ( 0 4)'t PN ] 01Cl2 2PtCl2 .
Action of Ethylamine and Trimethylamine upon the bromide of the brominetted body .
The phenomena observed with ethylamine and trimethylamine are perfectly analogous .
These substances furnish , with the brominetted bromide , new and very soluble dibromides , containing respectively ( C4 E5)3 PX ( C4 H5a)3 P ( C4 H4)'f Br , and ( C H-l ) Br , ( 04 113 ) II L(0 11 ) I ' which , by treatment with oxide of silver , are converted into the corresponding powerfully alkaline oxides V ( 015)3 p ( 04 lls &gt; 3 PA CH4Y " t ] 0(C4 H4- ) , , f1 1(C41)"H2 N I } and L(04114 ) NI ( 04115 ) 112 102 112 j 211 and yield , by saturation with hydrochloric acid and precipitationi with dichloride of platinum , two splendid platinum-salts crystallizing in long golden-yellow needles , and containing respectively [ ( C41 H1)4 ( C4 H4)"112 PN ] " t C12 , 2Pt C02 , and rC4 1E ) A 11C AC HY'PN ] " Cl , 2Pt Cl , By the formation of the phosphammonium-compounds , the nature both of the diammoniumand of the diphosphonium-series appears to me finally established .
It will be interesting to ascertain whether the brominetted bromide , when stubmitted to the action of monarsines and monostibines , will give rise to the formation of phospharsoniumand phospho-stibonium-bases .
The solution of this question will not be difficult .
2 ;

