On the Magnetic Induction of Crystals .
" By Professor JULIUS PLUCKER , of Bonn , For , Memb. R.S. , Hon. M.R.I. , &amp;c. Received March 26 , 1857 .
[ Abstract .
] The author commences by referring to his discovery of the peculiar action of magnets on crystalline bodies , and to the researches to which he was thereby led .
With reference to the form in which he enunciated the law regulating the action of a magnet on a uniaxal crystal-that the optic axis is attracted or repelled by the poles of the magnet-he disclaims any intention of assigning a physical cause to the phenomenon , or doing anything more than expressing the results of observation , which are as if such a force existed .
In the case of crystals of a more complicated character , he was led , in the first instance , to assume the existence of two magnetic axes , possessing a similar character as to attraction and repulsion with the one axis of optically uniaxal crystals .
But finding that the proposed law did not hold when the crystal was examined in all directions , and not solely along peculiar axes , he abandoned , nearly two years ago , a hypothesis respecting which serious doubts had arisen long before .
For the hypothesis of one or two axes acted upon by the magnet , he substituted another similar hypothesis .
In the case of uniaxal crystals he now conceived an ellipsoid of revolution , consisting of an amorphous paramagnetic or diamagnetic substance , and having within the crystal its principal axis coincident with the principal crystallographic axis .
It is easy to verify that both crystal and ellipsoid , the poles of the magnet not being too near each other , will be directed between them in exactly the same way .
In the generalization , an ellipsoid with three unequal axes , having a determinate direction in the crystal , must be substituted for the ellipsoid of revolution .
In this hypothesis too , two " magnetic axes " are met with , that is , according to the new definition , directions which possess , in common with the single crystallographic axis of uniaxal crystals , the property that if the crystal be suspended so that either of these axes is vertical , and the body is at liberty to turn freely round it , no extraordinary magnetic action is exhibited , but the crystal behaves like an amorphous substance .
According to observation , a crystal under favourable circumstances is directed in the same way as the smallest of its fragments .
Hence , according to the new hypothesis , each of its particles may be regarded as acted on like an amorphous ellipsoid .
But such an amorphous molecular ellipsoid , when influenced by a magnetic pole at a finite distance , will be directed like an ellipsoid of finite dimensions under the influence of an infinitely distant pole .
Here Poisson 's theory presented itself for the verification of the hypothetical conclusions and their consequences , to which the author had been led by considerations of a different kind .
This verification had the most complete success .
But before proceeding to it , it was found necessary to confirm Poisson 's theory itself ( or rather the results following from it ) , with respect to an ellipsoid of finite dimensions influenced by an infinitely distant pole .
By means of a beautiful theorem lately published by Professor Beer , by which the results relating to the influenced ellipsoid are simply and elegantly expressed by means of an auxiliary ellipsoid , the author was enabled to deduce immediately the analytical expressions .
These were afterwards compared with experiment , by observations made on two carefully worked ellipsoids of soft iron , executed by M. Fessel of Cologne .
The results thus obtained from theory , and verified by experiment , with reference to an amorphous ellipsoid , were compared with the results obtained from the observation of crystals , and manifested a complete agreement .
According to this theory , the magnetic induction within a crystal is , like the elasticity of the luminiferous ether , determined by means of an auxiliary ellipsoid .
As there are three rectangular axes of optical elasticity , so there are three principal axes of magnetic induction , characterized by the property that if a crystal be suspended along any one of them , the two others set , one axially , and the other equatorially .
As there are two optic axes , situated in the plane of the axes of greatest and least elasticity , so there are two magnetic axes , characterized by the property already mentioned .
Among crystals , the author selected for special examination red ferrocyanide of iron , sulphate of zinc , and formicate of copper .
The first is paramagnetic , the second diamagnetic , and in both cases the principal axes of magnetic induction are determined by the planes of crystalline symmetry .
The setting of elongated prisms , as well as of long cylinders and short cylinders or circular plates , cut in various selected directions from the crystals , is described in detail .
The use of both cylinders and circular plates , cut with their axes in the same direction , obviated any objection which might be raised attributing the setting to the external form , since , so far as was due to mere form , a cylinder and a circular plate would set with their axes in rectangular directions .
Formicate of copper differs from the former crystals in having but one plane of crystalline symmetry , and accordingly in having but one principal axis of magnetic induction determined by the crystalline form .
The existence of three principal magnetic axes , having the property already mentioned , was demonstrated experimentally , and the directions of those two which were not determined by the crystalline form , were ascertained by experiment .
In this crystal the axes of greatest and least induction , and consequently the magnetic axes , lie in the plane of symmetry ; and the existence of two magnetic axes was demonstrated , and their positions were determined .
In conclusion , the author gives a list of crystals , classified according to their paramagnetic or diamagnetic characters , and the order of magnitude of the magnetic inductions in the direction of their principal axes .
He also remarks that some crystals , of which instances are given , though belonging according to their form to the biaxal class , have two of their principal magnetic inductions so nearly equal that they cannot be distinguished from magnetically uniaxal crystals ; while others , though not belonging to the tesseral system , have all their principal inductions so nearly equal that they cannot be distinguished from amorphous substances .

