XIV .
An Account of Persons who could not distinguish Colours .
By Mr. Joseph Huddart , in a Letter to the Rev. Joseph Priestley , LL. D. F. R. S. London , SIR , Jan. 15 , 1777 .
WHEN I had the pleasure of waiting on you last winter , I had hopes before now of giving you a more perfect account of the peculiarity of vision which I then mentioned to you , in a person of my acquaintance in the North : however , if I give you now the best I am able , I persuade myself you will pardon the delay .
Read Feb. 13 , 1777 .
I promised to procure you a written account from the person himself , but this I was unfortunately disappointed in , by his dying suddenly of a pleurisy a short time after my return to the country .
You will recollect I told you that this person lived at Mary-port in Cumberland , near which place , viz. at Allonby , I myself live , and having known him about ten years have had frequent opportunities of conversing with him .
His name was HARRIS , by trade a shoe-maker .
I had often heard from others that he could discern the form and magnitude of all objects very distinctly , but could not distinguish colours .
This report having excited my curiosity , I conversed with him frequently on the subject .
The account he gave was this : That he had reason to believe other persons saw something in objects which he could not fee ; that their language seemed to mark qualities with confidence and precision , which he could only guess at with hesitation , and frequently with error .
His first suspicion of this arose when he was about four years old .
Having by accident found in the street a child 's stocking , he carried it to a neighbouring house to inquire for the owner : he observed the people called it a red stocking , though he did not understand why they gave it that denomination , as he himself thought it completely described by being called a stocking .
The circumstance , however , remained in his memory , and together with subsequent observations led him to the knowledge of his defect .
As the idea of colours is among the first that enters the mind , it may perhaps seem extraordinary that he did not observe his want of it still earlier .
This , however , may in some measure be accounted for from the circumstance of his family being quakers , among whom a general uniformity of colours is known to prevail .
He observed also that , when young , other children could discern cherries on a tree by some pretended difference of colour , though he could only distinguish them from the leaves by their difference of size and shape .
He observed also , that by means of this difference of colour they could see the cherries at a greater distance than he could , though he could see other objects at as great a distance as they ; that is , where the sight was not assisted by the colour .
Large objects he could see as well as other persons ; and even the smaller ones if they were not enveloped in other things , as in the case of cherries among the leaves .
I believe he could never do more than guess the name of any colour ; yet he could distinguish white from black , or black from any light or bright colour .
Dove or strawcolour he called white , and different colours he frequently called by the same name : yet he could discern a difference between them when placed together .
In general , colours of an equal degree of brightness , however they might otherwise differ , he frequently confounded together .
Yet a striped ribbon he could distinguish from a plain one ; but he could not tell what the colours were with any tolerable exactness .
Dark colours in general he often mistook for black , but never imagined white to be a dark colour , nor a dark to be a white colour .
He was an intelligent man , and very desirous of understanding the nature of light and colours , for which end he had attended a course of lectures in natural philosophy .
He had two brothers in the same circumstances as to sight ; and two other brothers and sisters who , as well as their parents , had nothing of this defect .
One of the first mentioned brothers , who is now living , is master of a trading vessel belonging to Maryport .
I met with him in December 1776 , at Dublin , and took the opportunity of conversing with him .
I wished to try his capacity to distinguish the colours in a prism , but not having one by me , I asked him , Whether he had ever seen a rain-bow ?
He replied , He had often , and could distinguish the different colours ; meaning only , that it was composed of different colours , for he could not tell what they were .
I then procured and showed him a piece of ribbon : he immediately , without any difficulty , pronounced it a striped and not a plain ribbon .
He then attempted to name the different stripes : the several stripes of white he uniformly , and without hesitation , called white : the four black stripes he was deceived in , for three of them he thought brown , though they were exactly of the same shade with the other , which he properly called black .
He spoke , however , with diffidence as to all those stripes ; and it must be owned , the black was not very distinct : the light green he called yellow ; but he was not very positive : he said , ` ` I think this is what you call yellow .
' ' The middle stripe , which had a slight tinge of red , he called a sort of blue .
But he was most of all deceived by the orange colour ; of this he spoke very confidently , saying , ` ` This is the colour of grass ; this is green .
' ' I also showed him a great variety of ribbons , the colour of which he sometimes named rightly , and sometimes as differently as possible from the true colours .
I asked him , Whether he imagined it possible for all the various colours he saw , to be mere difference of light and shade ; whether he thought they could be various degrees between white and black ; and that all colours could be composed of these two mixtures only ?
With some hesitation he replied , No , he did imagine there was some other difference .
I could not conveniently procure from this person an account in writing ; but I have given his own words , having set them down in writing immediately .
Besides , as this conversation happened only the 10th of last months , it is still fresh in my memory .
I have endeavoured to give a faithful account of this matter , and not to render it more wonderful than it really is .
It is proper to add , that the experiment of the striped ribbon was made in the day-time , and in a good light .
I am , SIR , &amp;c.

