488 Complete Survey of the Cell Lamination of the Cerebral Cortex of the Lemur.* By Dr. F. W. Mott , M.D. , F.R.S. , and Agnes M. Kelley .
( Received March 6 , -\#151 ; Read April 2 , 1908 .
) ( From the Pathological Laboratory of the London County Asylums , Claybury .
) [ Plates 14\#151 ; 18 .
] CONTENTS .
PAGE Lt\#151 ; Notes on Material and Method ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 488 II-\#151 ; A Short Account of the Lemur and Correlation of its Mode of Life and Habits with the Cortical Development of the Brain ... 489 III .
\#151 ; General Description of the Brain ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 491 IV .
\#151 ; Histological Description of the Cortex :\#151 ; Summary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
494 ( a ) Motor Area ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
495 ( b ) Frontal Area ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
497 ( c ) Post-central Area ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
... ... . .
498 ( d ) Temporal Area ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
499 ( e ) Visual Area ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
500 ( f ) Archipallium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
501 Addendum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 505 I. Notes on Material and Method .
It has been endeavoured by a microscopical examination of series of sections of the cerebral cortex of the lemur to map out the extent and boundaries of the types of cell lamination observed .
The brains of four lemurs were used:\#151 ; One Lemur brunn , one Lemur mongoz , and two specimens of Lemur catta .
The tissue was divided into small blocks about 3 inches thick , cut as far as possible at right angles to the main fissures .
Two hemispheres were cut up completely , each into about 24 blocks , and the others were used to supplement these .
To ensure greater accuracy in the results , the blocks were cut out in varying positions from the different hemispheres , so that any discrepancy in one set of sections might be checked in another .
The positions from which these blocks were taken were mapped out on drawings of the surface of the brain , both the blocks and the key being numbered .
* A Government Grant of \#163 ; 20 was made to defray the expenses of this research .
Cell Lamination of Cerebral Cortex of the Lemur .
489 The specimens in the first place were hardened in formalin .
The small blocks were passed through several changes of alcohol of gradually , increased strength , dehydrated in absolute , cleared in xylol , and imbedded in paraffin .
Sections 10 / a in thickness were cut in series and numbered , and about one section in every 20 was stained , the Nissl or the polychrome methylene blue method being used .
To map out the various areas , their extents were first marked on the plans of the sections { vide figs. 3 and 4 ) .
By applying these plans to the diagrams of the surface of the brain , fig. 1 has been composed .
The drawings of the types of cortical lamination ( Plates 14\#151 ; 18 ) were made with the camera lucida , at a magnification of 120 diameters ( figs. 5 to 14 ) .
II .
A Short Account of the Lemur and Correlation of its Mode of Life and Habits with the Cortical Development of the Brain .
The true lemurs are found only in Madagascar , and frequent the forest in large numbers .
Small , agile animals , hardly the size of a cat , with fox-like faces , large ears , long tails , and thick fur , they are eminently adapted to an arboreal life .
They are able to run along the branches with great rapidity , using all four limbs , but they also spring from branch to branch with ease .
The thumb and great toe are opposable , a feature which is not found in lower mammals , but which is characteristic in the primates .
At the same time they seem to prefer to seize their food with their mouths , and do not grasp with the fore limb so readily as the apes .
Though active and playful and fairly easily tamed , these animals , as compared with the monkeys and apes , are not very intelligent .
Their food consists of fruit , nuts , and also insects and birds ' eggs .
They are nocturnal or diurnal , and are probably guided in their search for food to a large extent by their sense of smell .
The olfactory region of the brain , with the olfactory tracts and bulbs , is extremely well developed , and very much larger and more extensive proportionately than that of the primates .
The large ears and well-developed semicircular canals may be correlated with the comparatively large temporal lobe and an acuteness of hearing obviously useful to a nocturnal feeding animal .
The eyes , which are large , are set wide apart , so that the visual axes cannot be parallel ; consequently , the animal does not , like the ape , possess convergent binocular stereoscopic vision .
This fact finds anatomical expression in lack of macula , relatively smaller optic nerves , and absence in the brain of a definite occipital lobe .
Dr. F. W. Mott and Miss A. M. Kelley .
[ Mar. 6 , SB fSudirnentcxiy \ feGWWy tlG\gt ; \#187 ; Vv''v%wV ^r*wvvvVvV\gt ; fro O O Q m M m m =F5 + 4* 4 j* \gt ; . ?
\gt ; !
\#169 ; ' \#169 ; -EL V It iS i Frontal , Motor 1 .
Motor 2 .
Post- central .
Tempo- ral .
Visual .
Limbic .
Olfac- tory .
TTOe Key to the Areas .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Lemur mongoz .
A. Diagram of upper surface of brain .
C. Lateral view of right hemisphere .
B. " under , , D. Mesial surface of right hemisphere .
In B , C , and D the cerebellum has been removed .
The various markings on the right hemisphere indicate various cortical areas , as shown by the key .
1908 .
] Cell Lamination of Cerebral Cortex of the .
491 III .
General Description of the Brain .
The lemur 's brain measures about 5 cm .
by 3'5 cm .
, and weighs on an average about 19 grammes .
The surface is broken by few.fissures .
There is no occipital lobe , the cerebellum being only partially covered by the cerebral hemispheres ( vide fig. 1 ) .
The olfactory bulbs and tracts are comparatively large , and the rhinal fissure is seen on the lateral surface of the temporal lobe .
It is therefore evident that the lemur has a well-developed olfactory area .
On the dorso-lateral surface there are four main fissures , which , according to the nomenclature of Elliot Smith ( 1 ) , may be termed the sulcus rectus , the lateral sulcus , the Sylvian fissure , and the parallel sulcus .
Two small fissures are found on the fronto-orbital surface\#151 ; the orbital , near the anterior pole , and behind it the fronto-orbital .
On the mesial surface are seen the bifurcated calcarine fissure , the intercalary sulcus , and the hippocampal fissure .
The latter gives off a branch in front of a small hippocampal tubercle .
A short fissure , called by Elliot Smith the inferior occipital sulcus , lies on the under surface of the occipital region .
In some species a small sulcus rostralis can be seen on the fronto-mesial surface .
To these more prominent fissures may be added a few others , which though small and shallow are constant .
The most anterior of these lies in the middle of the triangular space formed on the dorsal surface by the sulcus rectus , the anterior part of the sulcus lateralis , and the border of the mesial surface , and is probably the homologue of the sulcus cruciatus of the carnivora .
Between the superior extremities of the Sylvian fissure and of the parallel sulcus a small series of fissurets is usually present , tending to join the two sulci .
This has been pointed out by Elliot Smith , who observes that in the aye-aye the communication is complete , as in the lower mammals , and the two fissures form one continuous arch ; but that in the primates these fissures are always separated .
Some shallow linear depressions are seen near the margin of the posterior pole .
The superior of these , which is constant although it varies a little in position , is possibly an indication of a rudimentary " Affenspalte .
" The lemur 's brain forms an interesting study for comparison with the brains of carnivora , ungulates and the apes .
Whereas in size , in simplicity .of convolutional pattern , in the uncovered cerebellum , and in the well-developed olfactory area and bulbs , it is allied to the lower mammals ' , in many respects it bears resemblance to the ape 's brain ; notably in the bifurcated calcarine fissure , the separate intercalary sulcus , the more completely developed Sylvian fissure , and the separation of this fissure from the parallel sulcus .
Dr. F. W. Mott and Miss A. M. Kelley .
[ Mar. 6 , In comparing a lemur 's brain with an ape 's , the difficulty of distinguishing the homologue of the Rolandic fissure presents itself .
It has been suggested that the small dimple in front of the sulcus lateralis is the possible homologue of Rolando ; but both stimulation experiments and histological examination show that this fissure is within the motor area ( vide figs. 1 and 2 ) .
It therefore does not fulfil the condition of forming of opp .
Extension , Earul Fig. 2.\#151 ; Diagram of Lemur 's cerebrum , seen from above .
The motor area , as ascertained by the stimulation method , is shown on the right hemisphere .
the posterior boundary of the motor area which is characteristic of the fissure of Rolando in the apes and higher anthropoidea .
It seems more probable that it is the homologue of the cruciate sulcus of the carnivora .
Campbell has pointed out that such a homologue exists within the motor area in the ape and in man , and finds it in the paracentral lobule .
He further observes that : " Just as in the lowei ; animals , the deposit of giant cells clings to the sulcus cruciatus , so it is with this fissuret ; in mapping 1908 .
] Cell Lamination of Cerebral Cortex of the Lemur .
493 out the distribution of the motor area , I have , in all , examined the paracentral lobule in serial sections quite a dozen times in man and three times in the anthropoid ape , and I have invariably detected clusters of giant cells TYPE V Fig. 3.\#151 ; Diagram of section cut at right angles to Sylvian fissure about half-way between its upper extremity and the rhinal fissure , showing the submerged area of cortex which lies within its operculated walls .
in the walls of the fissuret , not all along , perhaps , hut always in its upper part .
" It is interesting to note that in the cerebral cortex of the lemur the largest Betz cells were found around this fissuret .
As the anterior portion Parallel Hss .
Rhinal dss .
Hippocampal / lam Fig. 4.\#151 ; Section through right temporal lobe of Lemur 's brain .
of the lateral sulcus is the posterior boundary of the motor area for about 5 mm. , it seems possible that that part of the fissure may be the homologue of Rolando , or of one of its elements ; but , except at this point , it is Dr. F. W. Mott and Miss A. M. Kelley .
[ Mar. 6 , noticeable that just as in the occipital region there is no definite Affenspalte present forming a boundary to the visual area , so in the central region there is no fully formed fissure making a sharp line of demarcation between the motor and post-central areas .
IV .
Histological Desceiption of the Coetex .
Summary of Histological Description of the Cortex .
By comparing the camera lucida drawings of typical strips of cortex of the frontal , motor , post-central , visual , temporal , and hippocampal areas Plates 14\#151 ; 18 ) , * it will be seen that although the differences in the types are not so pronounced as in the higher apes and man , it is evident that each of these areas has a characteristic lamination .
The cortex of the archipallium being peculiar both in its lamination and in its cell elements , is easily mapped out .
The motor area is characterised by the Betz cells ; the frontal area by a comparative poverty of cells , both in size and number ; and neither the frontal nor the upper part of the motor area possesses a definite layer of granules .
The sensory areas , on the other hand , are distinguished by a rich granule layer ; and of these the visual area is marked by the large solitary cells of Meynert and the line of Gennari ; the post-central area by a line of large pyramids below the granules ; and the temporal area shows a line of peculiar elongated pyramids which are especially large and conspicuous in the region about the posterior end of the Sylvian fissure .
A detailed description of the histology of these areas is given below .
These typical forms of lamination are found in regions which have been termed " focal .
" They are generally surrounded by a cortex less typical or \#171 ; peri-focal .
" Between some types ( for example , the motor and post-central ) the peri-focal area of the one merges into the peri-focal area of the other , with the result that there is a region between the two which shows mixed characteristics .
We have found that , in the lemur 's cortex , there are few definite border lines where one type of cortex ends abruptly and another begins .
On microscopical examination of the Rolandic region of the ape 's cortex the change from the motor to the post-central type can be readily observed ( the base of the fissure of Rolando forming the approximate boundary ) .
In the lemur the motor cortex merges very gradually into the post-central type .
This is the case with most of the areas within the neopallium .
There is , however , a fairly definite boundary line between the * Plates 14\#151 ; 18 , containing figs. 5\#151 ; 14 , represent the cell lamination of the cortex in typical areas of the lemur 's brain .
The drawings were made with the camera lucida , the magnification being 120 diameters .
A description of these areas is given in the text .
1908 .
] Cell Lamination of Cerebral Cortex of the Lemur .
495 neopallium and the archipallium .
In making the diagrams we have , therefore , not attempted to map out the whole cortex into arbitrary divisions .
-We have marked the " focal " areas in each case with larger figures , and the ** peri-focal " areas with figures of the same type but smaller .
Blank spaces have been left on the diagrams to indicate the intermediate indefinite areas which show mixed characteristics , as it cannot be definitely stated that they belong to the one type or to the other .
Special mention may be made of the intermediate areas which lie anteriorly to the visual area , both on the mesial and lateral surfaces .
The cortex in this region of the brain is particularly rich in cells .
The pyramidal layer is well developed , the individual cells being rather smaller and more numerous than the pyramids of the post-central and temporal types , but not so small and less closely packed than those of the visual area .
The granule layer forms a conspicuous band , rather deeper though again less closely packed than in the visual area , and the individual cells here also are rather larger .
A line of darkly staining stellate cells is seen above the granule layer , and a line of large pyramids is found which resemble those seen in the temporal area but which are not so large as those found in its most typical , \#166 ; or " focal " region.* We have not mapped out this cortex as a definite type covering a definite area .
Though at its posterior border the point at which it ends and the visual type begins can be observed in longitudinal sections of this part of the brain , its anterior border is very indefinite .
It merges into the temporal and post-central types so gradually that unless sections from the focal regions of these areas are compared with a section from its posterior margin , no very appreciable differences imstructure can be seen .
The cortex of this region thus seems to be intermediate in structure\#151 ; as it is in position \#151 ; to the post-central , temporal , and visual types .
It is probable that in this area lie the homologues of the " parietal " and " visuo-psychic " types described by Campbell in the higher apes .
These types would tend to become more definite in character and extent as the parietal lobe becomes more highly developed .
Motor Area.f Extent and Boundaries : Motor A , ... .$\#163 ; .\#151 ; This , type covers that part of the dorsal and mesial surfaces which lies between the posterior end of the * It is regretted that , owing to the number of illustrations being necessarily limited , a reproduction of the drawing of this type cannot be given .
+ This area was mapped out by the experimental method by Professor Halliburton and Hr .
F. W. Mott , and has been described in a paper now in press for the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society .
' VOL. LXXX.\#151 ; B. 2 E Dr. F. W. Mott and Miss A. M. Kelley .
[ Mar. 6 , sulcus rectus , the anterior end of the sulcus lateralis , and the intercalary-sulcus ( vide fig. 1 ) .
Posteriorly- and anteriorly this type becomes less characteristic , and gradually merges , in front , into an area intermediate to the motor and the frontal types ; and behind , into one intermediate to the motor and the precentral type .
This lamination is continued further forward within the sulcus rectus than can be indicated on the surface diagram .
Motor B Mi .\#151 ; Type " Motor B covers the space which lies between the extremities of the sulcus rectus and the sulcus lateralis , and extending downwards on to the superior wall of the Sylvian fissure is bounded inferiorly by the sulcus which lies at its base .
( A more particular description of this sulcus is given under " Type R. " ) Superiorly it merges into " Motor A , " anteriorly into an area intermediate to this type and type " Frontal B , " and posteriorly into one intermediate to this type and the temporal and post-central types .
Characteristics : Motor A. The cortex is about 2 mm. deep\#151 ; the molecular layer measuring about 0T7 mm. , the pyramidal layer and granules together about 0*9 mm. , the pallid zone in which the Betz cells lie about 0*2 mm. , and the polymorph layer about 07 mm. ( vide fig. 5 , Plate 14 ) .
The cells of the pyramidal layer are larger and have more processes than in other parts of the cortex ( those of the post-central and temporal types most nearly approaching them in form ) .
They are somewhat irregularly arranged , owing perhaps to the presence of the fibres from the Betz cells .
Granules are scattered in fair numbers at the bottom of the pyramidal layer ; but they do not form a distinct layer .
The infra-granular pyramids are the most typical features of this area .
They are for the most part well-formed Betz cells , containing FTissl bodies and having several branched processes .
They frequently measure as much as 60 fi by 25 fi , and are sometimes larger .
This line of cells seems to occupy a pallid zone in which only a few other cells are scattered\#151 ; these being smaller Betz-like cells , faintly-stained pyramidal cells , and a few granules .
Some of the large Betz cells closely resemble the typical giant Betz cells of the cortex of the higher apes , but many are more pyramidal in shape .
The tendency to arrangement in nests which has been described in the human cortex is not general , though it can sometimes be seen .
The largest Betz cells are found immediately before and behind the small fissuret which lies in the middle of this area , and between it and the intercalary sulcus .
Motor B ( vide fig. 6).\#151 ; In " Motor B " the pyramidal cells are smaller than in " Motor A " ; a line of darkly staining stellate cells is scattered 1908 .
] Cell Lamination of Cerebral Cortex of the Lemur .
497 above or among the granules , and the granules form a fairly well-marked line .
The cells which correspond in position to the Betz cells in " Motor A " are not conspicuous either in size , staining , or number .
But a somewhat scattered line of cells can be seen measuring about 25 yu , by 15 fx which are Betz-like in shape , having many branched processes and Nissl granules .
From the facts that the movements of the head and eyes , mouth , closure of opposite eye , side of face and tongue , and pricking of ears have been obtained by stimulation of this area , and that the cells here described are present , it may be inferred that this area is motor in function , although it differs considerably from the typical motor cortex in the characteristics mentioned above .
The presence of stellate cells and granules points to a sensory type .
This area is probably a sensori-motor area which is experimentally excitable , giving rise to definite movements ; and corresponding to another definite sensori-motor area\#151 ; the calcarine visual cortex , which , in the ape , gives rise to definite movements on stimulation .
But for reasons which have been given in Addendum ( p. 505 ) , the visual cortex has not been experimentally proved to be excitable in the lemur .
Frontal Area .
Extent and Boundaries : Frontal A \#151 ; This area forms a band about 1 mm. in width across the dorso-mesial surface from the sulcus rectus to the intercalary sulcus .
It is bounded anteriorly by " Frontal B " ; posteriorly it extends nearly to the level of the end of the sulcus rectus , and there merges into an intermediate area which lies between this type and the motor area .
Frontal B.\#151 ; Type " Frontal B " covers the anterior pole of the hemisphere , and extends : Posteriorly , on to the dorsal and mesial surfaces for about 2 mm. backwards , being bounded by " Frontal A ; " on the mesial surface to the intercalary sulcus , and , further forward , to an imaginary line continuous with this sulcus to the pole ; interiorly , to the orbital and fronto-orbital sulci.* Characteristics : Frontal A.\#151 ; The cortex is about 2 .
mm. deep , the molecular * A comparison with the brains of the primates , described by Campbell , suggests that an " orbital " type of cortex would be found in this position .
We have not , however , found sufficient histological evidence to justify mapping out a separate type here , although it may be noted that in sections of so small a brain the cortical lamination of this region is often distorted , owing to the sections being necessarily cut through the walls of the short , branched orbital sulcus .
It is thus difficult to make exact observations on this part .
of the cortex .
2 fi 2 Dr. F. W. Mott and Miss A. M. Kelley .
[ Mar. 6 , layer measuring about 0*2 mm. , the pyramidal layer about 1 mm. , and the polymorph layer about 0*7 mm. ( vide fig. 7 , Plate 15 ) .
The pyramidal cells are \#166 ; not closely packed , and incline to a longitudinal columnar arrangement .
There are no really large pyramidal cells either above or below the granules , , the largest measuring about 14/ 4 by 7 ft. A number of granules are scattered at the bottom of the pyramidal layer , but they hardly form a distinct layer .
Frontal B.\#151 ; This area is very poor in cells .
Those of the pyramidal layer are more scanty than in other parts of the neopallium ; the largest cells are still smaller than in " Frontal A , " and the granules are still less prominent , Sensory Areas .
Whereas the archipallium and the frontal and motor areas ( except the cortex described under " Motor B " ) have no definite line of granules , the cortex covering the posterior half of the hemisphere and the temporal lobe is characterised by a deep granule layer , which indicates a sensory type of cortex .
This conspicuous layer of granules is seen throughout the whole area , but there are various other distinctions in different parts of it , and it has been subdivided accordingly into the temporal type , the post-central type , and the visual type .
Although distinct variations seem to justify these subdivisions it must be pointed out that the changes from one type to another in this region are gradual , and that therefore the boundaries can only be approximately given .
Stellate cells are seen among the granules , but they are more numerous and more typical in the temporal and visual regions than in the post-central .
Post-central Area Ml- Extent avid Boundaries.\#151 ; The post-central type of cortex lies on the dorsal and mesial surfaces , between the motor and visual areas .
Anteriorly , about 6 mm. behind the anterior extremity of the lateral sulcus it merges into an area intermediate to it and the motor area ; and , posteriorly , near the posterior end of the lateral sulcus into one intermediate to it and the visual area .
Inferiorly , on the dorsal surface , it extends across the lateral sulcus , where it merges into the temporal type , and on the mesial surface it extends to the limbic cortex .
The change from the post-central to the temporal types is so gradual as to be scarcely perceptible , and it is only by comparing the upper part of the post-central with the temporal area that the differences in type become apparent .
Characteristics.\#151 ; The cortex is about 1*8 mm. in depth ; the molecular 1908 .
] Cell Lamination of Cerebral Cortex of the Lemur .
499 layer measuring about 0'15 mm. , the pyramidal layer about 0*8 mm. , the granules 0*2 mm. , the polymorph layer about 0'6 mm. in depth ( vide fig. 8 ) .
The pyramidal cells are rather more numerous than in the motor area ( A ) , and are not so large , and are more regularly arranged .
At the bottom of the layer is a line of supra-granular pyramids which average about 7 / / , by 2 / * in size .
The granule layer is well marked , and above it and among the granules are scattered a few stellate cells .
They are not , however , so numerous as in the temporal and visual areas .
The line of large infra-granular pyramidal cells is characteristic of this area .
They are plump pyramidal-shaped cells , measuring on an average 35 yu , by 15 having several branched processes and Nissl granules .
These cells seem to correspond to similar cells described by Campbell as occurring in the post-central convolution in the primates .
Temporal Area Extent and Boundaries.\#151 ; The " temporal type " covers the greater part of the temporal lobe .
Inferiorly it extends to within about 4 mm. of the rhinal fissure , and there merges into type " R. " Anteriorly it extends on to the inferior wall of the Sylvian fissure and ends abruptly at the gyrus which lies at its base ; the lamination on the other side of the sulcus being type " R " ( vide fig. 3 ) .
Behind this gyrus the temporal type crosses the base of the Sylvian fissure , and gradually merges into the post-central type .
Curving round the posterior extremities of the Sylvian fissure and the parallel sulcus , and covering the rudimentary sulci behind the latter , it again , merges gradually into the cortex which is intermediate to it and the post-central and visual types respectively .
On the under surface the inferior occipital sulcus forms a boundary posteriorly , and more anteriorly it merges into an area which seems to be intermediate to it and the visual type .
Characteristics.\#151 ; The depth of the cortex is about 2 mm. , the molecular layer measuring about 0*15 mm. , the pyramidal 0'7 mm. , the granules 0*25 mm. , the zone in which the large infra-granular pyramids lie about 0*2 mm. , and the polymorph layer about 0'7 mm. in depth ( tig .
9 ) .
The superficial cells of the pyramidal layer are small and rather closely crowded together ; and among the more usual triangular cells may be seen a few which are quadrilateral in shape .
The remainder of the pyramidal layer is formed of well developed pyramids , which are larger and less closely packed than those of the visual area , and more regularly arranged than in the motor .
The largest cells at the bottom of the layer measure about 30 by 7 / a. The granule layer is conspicuous .
The individual cells are larger and less Dr. F. W. Mott and Miss A. M. Kelley .
[ Mar. 6 , crowded together than in the visual area .
A few small pyramids are mingled with them .
Scattered among the granules , or immediately above them , is a line of darkly staining stellate cells , of irregular angular shapes , giving off many processes .
They measure on an average 25 / a by 18 / a , and are more conspicuous in shape and staining than in size .
A line of large infra-granular pyramids is very characteristic of this region .
These are darkly staining , thin , elongated pyramids , measuring from 25/ a by 9 ya to about 50 ya by 10 / a. This lamination is found in its most typical form on and around the upper portion of the inferior wall of the Sylvian fissure , which area has , therefore , been termed " Temporal A. " As it crosses the base of the fissure and ascends on to the gyrus above , the small crowded cells at the top of the pyramidal layer are less noticeable , the infra-granular pyramids become plumper , and more like those of the post-central area , and the stellate cells are less numerous .
Posteriorly , the area becomes richer in cells in all layers , and the individual cells smaller\#151 ; more nearly approaching the visual type ; and here , again , the surface layer of crowded pyramidal cells becomes less obvious and finally disappears .
Anteriorly the cortex , as it approaches the intermediate type " R , " becomes less rich in cells , the infra-granular cells are smaller , and the lamination presents a less characteristic appearance .
Visual Area .
Extent and Boundaries : Visual A v { vl.\#151 ; This type follows the deeply infolded calcarine fissure , and is thus only partially visible on the surface .
It is found on the posterior wall of the anterior limb of the calcarine fissure , on both walls of the posterior limb , and on the lower lip of the posterior half of the calcarine stem , ending within about 5 mm. of its anterior extremity .
It sometimes only reaches to the base of the fissure , and sometimes extends on to the anterior wall , but it is not found on the surface on the anterior side of the fissure .
Type " Visual B " bounds the area posteriorly .
Visual B.\#151 ; Type " Visual B " covers the posterior pole of the hemisphere .
On the mesial surface its anterior boundaries are type " Visual A , " and imaginary lines drawn upwards in continuation of the superior extremity of the anterior limb of the calcarine fissure to the dorso-mesial border ; and downwards from the inferior boundary of " Visual A , " to the inferior occipital sulcus .
It is bounded on the under surface by this sulcus , being found only on its superior wall ; and it extends around the pole on to the dorsal surface for about 4 mm. Here it is bounded approximately by the rudimentary sulcus which is probably the homologue of the " Affenspalte ** of the apes , but it frequently ends within about 1 mm. of the sulcus , merging into a type inter1908 .
] Cell Lamination of Cerebral Cortex of the Lemur .
501 mediate to the visual and temporal types ; which is also its boundary between this sulcus and the inferior occipital .
Characteristics :Visual A ( fig. 10).\#151 ; The depth of the cortex is about 1 mm. , the molecular layer measuring about 0*15 mm. , the pyramidal layer about 0-4 mm. , the granule layer 0T5 mm. , the pallid zone about 0*15 mm. , and the polymorph layer only about 0T mm. in depth .
The pyramidal cells are small and closely packed together , giving a crowded appearance to this area .
Stellate cells are present above the granules .
The granule layer is a prominent feature .
The cells are smaller than those forming the granule layer in the post-central and temporal types , and are closely packed together ; thus presenting under a low power a very characteristic appearance .
Above this layer a pallid zone may be observed , which is not , however , very pronounced , and is not so deep as the one described below .
Large solitary cells are sometimes found in this position .
Above this ill-defined pallid zone there is a suggestion of a duplicated line of granules in some scattered cells which lie at the bottom of the pyramidal layer .
Below the granule layer there is a pallid zone about 0'15 mm. in depth , in which are scattered a few granules , pyramids , and polymorph cells .
Both in this zone and above the granules are found the large solitary cells of Meynert\#151 ; cells having a blunt triangular or roundish shape , and large nuclei , and measuring on an average 25 yx by 15 yx .
The polymorph layer is shallow and crowded with cells .
Visual B* \#151 ; This cortex is a little deeper in the pyramidal and polymorph layers than " Visual A , " becoming gradually deeper as it approaches the intermediate areas between it and the temporal and parietal types .
The cells of the pyramidal layer are still small , but are not so crowded as in " Visual A " There are large pyramids to be seen both above and below the granules , measuring about 20 to 30 yx by 5 yx .
Scattered among the supra-granular pyramids are a number of stellate cells , resembling those described in the temporal area .
The granule layer is also less crowded , and the individual cells rather larger than in " Visual A. " The pallid zone below the granules is not so conspicuous ; and the zone above them , with the suggestion of duplication of the granule layer , has disappeared .
The solitary cells of Meynert are not present , their place being taken by the infra-granular pyramids mentioned above .
Archipallium c-s- ; .
{ Olfactory Area .
) Extent and Boundaries.\#151 ; The olfactory area covers the under surface of the temporal lobe .
It is bounded superiorly by the rhinal fissure , inferiorly * See footnote * on p. 495 .
Dr. F. W. Mott and Miss A. M. Kelley .
[ Mar. 6 , and posteriorly by the hippocampal fissure , and anteriorly by that portion of the Sylvian fissure which lies below the rhinal fissure .
Characteristics ( fig. 12).\#151 ; The depth of the cortex is about 1*3 mm. It is thus considerably more shallow than the cortex of the neopallium , which measures , over most of its extent , about 2 mm. in depth .
The molecular layer is comparatively deep , measuring about 0*3 mm. The pyramidal layer , which is about 0-6 mm. deep , is rather scantily filled with large angular cells , which stain well , and have long branching processes .
The cells of the superficial layer are particularly noticeable .
They are of characteristic irregular triangular or quadrate shapes , and often lie with the base towards the surface , with two , or even more , long branching processes passing upwards .
Staining well , and lying closely crowded together , they form a conspicuous line at the top of the pyramidal layer .
Below the pyramids a pallid zone can be seen measuring about 02 mm. There are a few granules scattered here and amongst the pyramids , but there is no definite granule layer .
The polymorph layer is about 0'4 mm. deep .
The Hippocampal Fissure.\#151 ; Several distinct types of cell arrangement can be observed within the hippocampal fissure .
Their position will be best explained by referring to the diagrams .
Fig. 4 is a section of the temporal lobe of a right hemisphere .
On it will be seen the olfactory type of cortex between the hippocampal fissure and the rhinal fissure , and , externally , type " It " lying between the olfactory and the temporal types .
Within the hippocampal fissure , and hidden from view on the surface by the basal ganglia , a narrow gyrus is shown , in section .
The cortex on this gyrus was found to be of the same type as the limbic ( vide fig. 13 ) , though somewhat mere shallow ( perhaps owing to pressure within the fissure ) .
The types a , b , c , d , figured in No. 14 , are found in the positions marked a .
... .
a , b . . .
b , etc. , respectively on fig. 4 , the last evidently corresponding to the stratum granulosum of the human brain .
The Olfactory Tract*\#151 ; The molecular layer is deep and contains islets of small angular cells .
The cells of the next layer are larger and are still very angular in shape ; they have fine processes , stain well , and are rather closely crowded together .
Under a low power it can be seen that this layer is arranged in a zigzag fashion .
There are a number of irregularly scattered large angular cells below this layer .
This structure seems to correspond to the tuberculum olfactorium described by Kamon y Cajal and Campbell .
* See footnote * on p. 495 .
1908 .
] Cell Lamination of Cerebral Cortex of the Lemur .
503 Type"R " \#163 ; iE3 .
If the lips of the Sylvian fissure are opened out , it will be seen that the anterior portion of both the superior and inferior walls form an operculum , and cover an area of cortex which is continuous with the cortex below the orbital sulcus anteriorly , and with that which lies directly above the rhinal fissure posteriorly .
It is triangular in shape , the apex of the triangle being wedged between the walls of the Sylvian fissure about half way between its posterior extremity and the vallecula Sylvii .
This corresponds to the floor of the Sylvian pit in the human foetal brain before the temporal and fronto-parietal opercula have covered it up to form the Sylvian fissure .
It is bounded within the fissure both anteriorly and posteriorly by small sulci , which lie at the base of the superior and inferior walls respectively .
Histological examination shows that this cortex is similar to , and continuous with , the type which borders the olfactory tract anteriorly , and the olfactory area posteriorly .
When , in the higher apes , the development of the frontal lobe pushes the fronto-orbital sulcus downwards and backwards until its posterior extremity joins the Sylvian fissure ( thus forming , according to Elliot Smith , the anterior ramus of the complete Sylvian fissure ) , this cortex is pressed downwards and backwards within the Sylvian fissure .
And , further , the fuller development of the temporal lobe may press the part bordering the rhinal fissure forwards\#151 ; also within thq increasingly operculated Sylvian fissure .
It is thus probable that this type of cortex , which borders the olfactory area in the lemur , may be the homologue of the island of Eeil in the higher anthropoids .
This area has been designated , for convenience , type " R. " As it is impossible to show the whole extent of the area on the surface map ( fig. 1 ) , in fig. 3 a diagram of a transverse section of the Sylvian fissure has been given , to show the position of the submerged gyrus .
Extent and Boundaries.\#151 ; This cortex covers ( ) that part of the orbital surface which borders the olfactory bulb and tract ; ; ( b ) the continuation of this area into the gyrus lying within the Sylvian fissure ; ( c ) the portion of the temporal lobe which lies immediately above the rhinal fissure .
Characteristics.\#151 ; The depth of the cortex is about 1*8 min. The molecular layer is comparatively deep , measuring about 0*25 mm. ( fig. 11 ) .
The cells of the superficial layer of the pyramids resemble those found in the same position in the olfactory area , but are smaller .
That is to say , they are of irregular triangular or quadrilateral shapes , and frequently have more than one branching process passing upwards .
In the remainder of the pyramidal layer the cells are less elongated in shape than the typical Dr. F. W. Mott and Miss A. M. Kelley .
[ Mar. 6 , pyramidal cells of the neopallium .
There is no definite granule layer , hut a number of faintly staining granules are scattered below , and in the lower part of the pyramidal layer .
Infra-granular pyramids , measuring about 30 by 15 fi , take the stain well , and form a fairly conspicuous line .
This area seems to be intermediate in type to the neopallium and the archipallium .
On comparing fig. 11 ( type " B " ) with fig. 12 ( olfactory type ) and fig. 9 ( neopallium , temporal type ) , it will be seen that the cortex is deeper in type " B " than in the olfactory area , but more shallow than in the neopallium ; and that in the deep molecular layer , and also in the form of the superficial layer of the pyramids , it resembles the olfactory type ; but in other respects it follows the neopallial type .
Limbic Area \#169 ; \#169 ; \#169 ; .
Extent and Boundaries.\#151 ; The limbic type forms a band around the whole extent of the corpus callosum , and extends along the narrow gyrus between the calcarine and hippocampal fissures , which forms a link between the upper and lower portions of the limbic lobe .
( This posterior part of the area is only visible on the surface by the removal of the basal ganglia by which the upper portion of the hippocampal fissure is exposed .
) The intercalary sulcus forms the superior boundary of this area , and an imaginary line continues it to the anterior limb of the calcarine fissures .
Anteriorly it spreads into a band , about 5 mm. wide , around the anterior genu of the corpus callosum .
The anterior limb of the calcarine fissure , and , as the area extends downwards in a narrow strip , the calcarine stem form its posterior boundaries , and inferiorly it is folded within the hippocampal fissure , as is shown on fig. 4 .
Characteristics ( fig. 13).\#151 ; The cortex measures about T3 mm. in depth .
It seems to be of low development , and cannot be readily divided into layers .
The molecular layer is deep , measuring about 0'23 mm. The layer corresponding in position to the pyramidal layer of the neopallium is formed of blunt triangular or rounded cells , which take the stain poorly , and have no tendency to regular arrangement in columns .
These cells form a layer about 0 8 mm. deep .
Below it there is a layer of faintly-stained polymorph cells .
Between the two layers is a scattered line of sharply-stained stellate cells measuring about 15 by 7 / a. A number of granules are scattered throughout the cortex , especially in the lower part of the pyramidal layer .
1908 .
] Cell Lamination of Cerebral Cortex of the Lemur .
505 REFERENCES .
1. .
Elliot Smith , 'Catalogue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons , ' Physiological Series , vol. 2 .
2 .
Campbell , ' Histological Studies on the Localisation of Cerebral Functions .
' 3 .
Bolton , " The Exact Histological Localisation of the Visual Area of the Human Cerebral Cortex , " 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 193 , 1900 .
4 .
Brodmann , " Beitrage sir histologischen Lokalisation der Grosshirnrinde , " Mitteilung v , vi .
5 .
Ramon y Cajal , ' Studien iiber die Hirnrinde des Menschen , ' part 4 : " Die Riechrinde beim Menschen und Saugetier , ' Leipzig , 1903 .
Addendum .
All these drawings and sections were shown at the Physiological Society on January 25tli , 1907 ; but we have delayed publication until the experiments performed by one of us , in conjunction with Professor Halliburton , had enabled us to map out the motor area .
For we were uncertain of its extent in those regions where the giganto-pyramids are not found\#151 ; namely , in the lower part of the motor area .
Moreover , we found great difficulty in deciding upon the exact localisation of the visual area , for there is an undoubted difference in the structure of the cortex lying within the calcarine fissure and the circumjacent cortex on the mesial and external surface ; which , although it shows by the fibre method a band which seems to be a definite line of Gennari , yet differs considerably in cell-structure from that within the calcarine fissure .
The cortex within the fissure is less deep , and the pyramids and granules are more closely crowded together .
This may quite probably be due to mechanical pressure within the fissure .
But a more important difference is found in the fact that the solitary cells of Meynert lying within the fissure are more numerous , larger , and more typical in shape .
In the surrounding region the cells , which are found in a corresponding position , form a more scattered line , are smaller , and are more pyramidal in shape .
There is also a suggestion within the fissure of a pallid zone above the granules , and of a duplicated line of granules above this zone ( vide fig. 10 ) .
This cannot be distinguished in the surrounding cortex .
These observations find support in the fact that no movements were obtained by stimulation of the posterior pole .
This experiment showed a marked contrast to the effects of stimulation of the pole in the ape .
It may possibly be explained by the fact that the stimulus did not reach the solitary cells within the calcarine fissure .
We have termed the cortex within the fissure " Visual A , " and the surrounding area " Visual B. " While on the one hand the line of Gennari seems to stretch over the whole of the area we have mapped out as " visual , " on the other hand , for the reasons given above , we 506 Cell Lamination of Cerebral Cortex of the Lemur .
are unable to affirm whether the surrounding cortex corresponds to the " visuo-sensory " type of Bolton and Campbell or to their " visuo-psychic .
" Since this paper was written we have received from Professor Brodmann , ' Beitrage sir histologischen Lokalisation der Grosshirnrinde , Funfte Mitteilung ' : " Uber den allgemeinen Bauplan des Cortex pallii bei den Mammaliern und zwei homologe Rindenfelder im besonderen.\#151 ; Zugleich ein Beitrag sir Furchenlehre , " and * Beitrage sir histologischen Lokalisation der Grosshirnrinde/ YI .
Mitteilung : " Die Cortexgliederung des Menschen , " which contain an account of his researches on localisation in the lemur 's brain .
Essentially there is little difference between our results and those figured by Brodmann , except that he has defined more subdivisions of the cortical types ; while we have found the change from one type to another in .
the neopallium to be so gradual that it is hardly possible in most cases to-define an exact boundary line between them ; and we have preferred , as stated in the paper , to leave blank spaces on the diagrams where the intermediate areas occur , as they seem too indefinite in this brain , both in characteristics and in extent , to allow an accurate representation of their areas to be given .
Thus we have limited ourselves to mapping out the main types of the neopallium\#151 ; namely , the motor , frontal , temporal , post-central , , and visual types , to pointing out variations in these types , and to giving , some description in the text of the intermediate areas .
Apart from this , his diagram chiefly differs from ours in that we have given a broader band for the motor area , carrying it further back\#151 ; especially in the lower part ; and that we have not carried the visual area so far forward on the dorsal surface. .
Brodmann 's researches were made with the brain of the macaco , while the species we have used were Lemur brunneus , Lemur catta , and mongoz .
mfott and Kelley .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. vol. 80 , Plate 14 .
-i .
\lt ; \lt ; ' im m\amp ; m Fig. 5.\#151 ; Motor A MJ * t * M ' . .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Motor B. @fott and Soc. Proc. , P. \lt ; vol. 80 , Plate 15 .
7.\#151 ; Frontal A : Fig. 8.\#151 ; Post Central .
Mott and Kelley .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. vol. 80 , Plate 16 .
I* % \#166 ; \lt ; - 4y* \#166 ; , -aH , ' M k .
jsaw f- i 'I V uV* w Jil iv il if " .
Iliwl \#166 ; p. ?
\#166 ; * i :r Iv * . .
* \#171 ; : . .
" .
-p- \#166 ; ' 'jj A *. .
\ , ' Fig. 9.\#151 ; Temporal A. Fig. 10.\#151 ; Visual A. Mott and Kelley .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. vol. 80 , Plate 17 .
i H [ Fig. 11.\#151 ; Type " H. " Fig. 12.\#151 ; Olfactory , ; Mott and Kelley .
Roy .
Soc. ProcB .
80 , 18 .

