XIV .
Researches on the oxymuriatic Acid , its Nature and Combiz nations ; and on the Elements of the muriatic Acid .
With some Experiments on Sulphur and Phosphorus , ade in the Laborator of the Royal Institution.* By H. Davy , Esq. Sec. R.S. Prof. Chem. R.L F.R.S.E. Read July S1 , 81o0 .
HE illustrious discoverer of the oxymuriatic acid considered it as muriatic acid freed from hydrogene ; t and the common muriatic acid as a compound of hydrogene and oxymuriatic acid ; and on this theory he denominated oxymuriatic acid dephlogisticated muriatic acid .
M. BERTHOLLET , * a few years after the discovery of SCHEELE , made a number of important and curious experiments on this body ; from which he concluded , that it was composed of muriatic acid gas and oxygene ; and this idea for nearly twenty years has been almost universally adopted .
Dr. HENRY , in an elaborate series of experiments , made with the view of decomposing muriatic acid gas , ascertained that hydrogene was produced from it , by electricity ; and he attributed the phenomenon to water contained in the gas.ll In the Bakerian lecture for 18o8 , I have given an account of the action of potassium upon muriatic acid gas , by which more than one third of its volume of hydrogene is produced ; and I have stated , that muriatic acid can in no instance be procured Communicated to the Royal Society at the request of the Managers of the Royal Institution , t Mem. Acad. Stockholm for 1774 , p. 94 .
; Journal de Physique , 1785 , p. 325 .
li Phil. Trans. for x8oo , px i9x , Hh from oxymuriatic acid , or from dry muriates , unless water or its elements be present .
In the second volume of the Memoires d'Arcueil ; M. M , GAY LUSSAC and TIHENARD have detailed an extensive series of facts upon muriatic acid , and oxymuriatic acid .
Some of their experiments are similar to those I have detailed in the paper just referred to ; others are peculiarly their own , and of a very curious kind : their general conclusion is , that muriatic acid gas contains about one quarter of its weight of water ; and that oxymuriatic acid is not decomposable by any substances but hydrogene , or such as can form triple combinations with it .
One of the most singular facts that I have observed on this subject , and which I have before referred to , is , that charcoal , even when ignited to whiteness in oxymuriatic or muriatic acid gases , by the VOLTAIC battery , effects no change in them ; if it has been previously freed from hydrogene and moisture by intense ignition in vacuo .
This experiment , which I have several times repeated , led me to doubt of the existence of oxygene in that substance , which has been supposed to contain it above all others in a loose and active state ; and to make a more rigorous investigation than had been hitherto attempted for its detection .
If oxymuriatic acid gas be introduced into a vessel exhauisted of air , containing tin ; and the tin be gently heated , and the gas in sufficient quantity , the tin and the gas disappear , and a limpid fluid , precisely the same as Libavius 's liquor is formed ; -it occurred to me , that if this substance is a combination of muriatic acid and oxide of tin , oxide of tin ought to be separated from it by means of ammonia .
I admitted ammoniacal gas over mercury to a small quantity of the liquor of Libavius ; 23X it was absorbed with great heat , and no gas was generated ; a solid result was obtained , which was of a dull white colour ; some of it was heated , to ascertain if it contained oxide of tin ; but the whole volatilized , producing dense pungent fumes .
Another experiment of the same kind , made with great care , and in which the ammonia was used in great excess , proved that the liquor of Libavius cannot be decompounded by ammonia ; but that it forms a new combination with this substance .
I have described , on a former occasion , the nature of the operation of phosphorus on oxymuriatic acid , and I have stated that two compounds , one fluid , and the other solid , are formed in the process of combustion , of which the first , on the generally received theory of the nature of oxymuriatic acid , must be considered as a compound of muriatic acid and phosphorous acid , and the other of muriatic acid and phosphoric acid .
It occurred to me , that if the acids of phosphorus really existed in these combinations , it would not be difficult to obtain them , and thus to gain proofs of the existence of oxygene in oxymuriatic acid .
I made a considerable quantity of the solid compound of oxymuriatic acid and phosphorus by combustion , andsaturated it with ammnonia , by heating it in a proper receiver-filled with ammnoniacal gas , on which it acted with great energy , prodiucilg much heat ; and they formed a white opaque powder .
Supposing that this substance was composed of the dry muriates and phosphates of ammonia ; as muriate of ammonia is very volatile , and as ammonia is driven off rom phosphoric acid , by a heat below redness , I conceived that by igniting the product obtained , I should procure phosphoric acid ; I therefore introduced sone of the powder into a tube of green glass , and heated it to redness , out of the contact of air by a spirit lamp but found , to my great surprise , that it , was not at all volatile nor decomposable at this degree of heat , and that it gave off no gaseous matter .
The circumstance that a substance composed principally of oxymuriatic acid , and ammonia , should resist decomposition or change at so high a temperature , induced me to pay particular attention to the properties of this new body .
It had no taste nor smell ; it did not seem to be soluble , nor did it undergo any perceptible change when digested in boiling water : it did not appear to be acted upon by sulphuric , muriatic , or nitric acids , nor by a strong lixivium of potash .
The only processes by which it seemed susceptible of decomposition were by combustion , or the action of ignited hydrat of potash .
When brought into the flame of a spirit lamp and made red-hot , it gave feeble indications of inflammation , and tinged the flame of a yellow colour , and left a fixed acid , having the properties of phosphoric acid .
When acted on by red-hot hydrat of potash , it emitted a smell of ammonia , burnt where it was in contact with air , and appeared to dissolve in the alkali .
The potash which had been so acted upon gave muriatic acid , by the addition of sulphuric acid .
I heated some of the powder to whiteness , in a tube of platina ; but it did not appear to alter ; and after ignition gave ammonia by the action of fused hydrat of potash .
I caused ammonia , made as dry as possible , to act on the phosphuretted liquor of M. M.GAY LussAc and THENARD ; and on the sulphuretted muriatic liquor of Dr. THOMSON ; but no decomposition took place ; nor was any muriate of ammonia formed when proper precautions were taken to exclude mois &amp; ture .
The results were new combinations ; that from the phosphoretted liquor , was a white solid , from which a part of the phosphorus was separated by heat ; but which seemed no further decomposable , even by ignition .
That from the sulphuretted liquor was likewise solid , and had various shades of colour , from a bright purple to a golden yellow , according as it was more or less saturated with ammonia ; but as these compounds did not present the same uniform and interesting properties , as that from the phosphoric sublimate , I did not examine them minutely : I contented myself by ascertaining that no substance known to contain oxygene could be procured from oxymuriatic acid , in this mode of operation .
It has been said , and taken for granted by many chemists , that when oxymuriatic acid and ammonia act upon each other , water is formed ; I have several times made the experiment , and I am convinced that this is not the case .
When about 25 or 16 parts of oxymuriatic acid gas are mixed with from 40 to 45 parts of ammoniacal gas , there is a condensation of nearly the whole of the acid and alkaline gasses , and from 5 to 6 parts of nitrogene are produced ; and the result is dry muriate of ammonia .
Mr. CRUIKSHANK has shown that oxymuriatic acid and hydrogene , wh'en mixed in proportions nearly equal , produce a matter almost entirely condensible by water ; and M. M. GAY LUSSAC and THENARD , have stated that this matter is common muriatic acid gas , and that no water is deposited in the operation .
I have made a number of experiments on the action of oxymuriatic acid gas and hydrogene .
Whaen these bodies were mixed in equal volumes over water , and introduced into an exhausted vessel and fired by the electric spark , there was always a deposition of a slight vapour , and a conden ?
85 sation of from #o to n of the volume ; but the gas remaining was muriatic acid gas .
I have attempted to make the experiment in amanner still more refined , by drying the oxymuriatic acid and the hydrogene by introducing them into vessels containing muriate of lime , and by suffering them to combine at common temperatures ; but I have never been able to avoid a slight condensation ; though in proportion as the gasses were free from oxygene or water , this condensation diminished .
I mixed together sulphuretted hydrogene in a high degree of purity and oxymuriatic acid gas both dried , in equal volumes : in this instance the condensation was not ; sulphur , which seemed to contain a little oxymuriatic acid , was formed on the sides of the vessel ; no vapour was deposited and the residual gas contained about 9 of muriatic acid gas , and the remainder was inflammable .
M. M. GAY LuSSAC and THENARD have proved by a copious collection of instances , that in the usual cases where oxygene is procured from oxymuriatic acid , water is always present , and muriatic acid gas is formed ; now , as it is shown that oxymuriatic acid gas is converted into muriatic acid gas , by combining with hydrogene , it is scarcely possible to avoid the conclusion , that the oxygene is derived from the decomposition of water , and , consequently , that the idea of the existence of water in muriatic acid gas , is hypothetical , depending upon an assumption which has not yet been proved the existence of oxygene in oxymuriatic acid gas .
M. M. GAY LuSSAC and THENARD indeed have stated an experiment , which they consider as proving that muriatic acid gas contains one quarter of its weight of combined water .
They passed this gas over litharge , ,nd obtained so much water ; but it is obvious that in this case they formed the same gS'6 compound as that produced by the action of oxymuriatic acid on lead ; and in this process the muriatic acid must loose its hydrogene , and the lead its oxygene ; which of course would form water ; these able chemists , indeed , from the conclusion of their memoir , seem aware , that such an explanation may be given , for they say that the oxymuriatic acid may be considered as a simple body .
I have repeated those experiments which led me first to suspect the existence of conmbined water in muriatic acid , with considerable care ; I find that , when mercury is made to act upon 1 in volume of muriatic acid gas , by VOLTAIC electricity , all the acid disappears , calomel is formed , and about.5 of hydrogene evolved .
With potassium , in experiments made over very dry mercury , the quantity of hydrogene is always from 9 to 11 , the volume of the muriatic acid gas used being so .
And in some experiments made very carefully by my brother Mr. JOHN DAVY , on the decomposition of muriatic acid gas , by heated tin and zinc , hydrogene equal to about half its volume was disengaged , and metallic muriates , the same as those produced by the combustion of tin and zinc in oxymuriatic gas , resulted .
It is evident from this series of observations , that SCHEELE'S view , ( though obscured by terms derived from a vague and unfounded general theory , ) of the nature of the oxymuriatic and muriatic acids , may be considered as an expression of facts ; whilst the view adopted by the French school of chemistry , and which , till it is minutely examined , appears so beautiful and satisfactory , rests in the present state of our knowledge , upon hypothetical grounds .
[ DCCCX Ii 237 When oxymuriatic acid is acted upon by nearly an equal volume of hydrogene , a combination takes place between them , and muriatic acid gas results .
When muriatic acid gas is acted on by mercury , or any other metal , the oxymuriatic acid is attracted from the hydrogene , by the stronger affinity of the metal ; and an oxymuriate , exactly similar to that formed by combustion , is produced .
The action of water upon those compounds , which have been usually considered as muriates , or as dry muriates , but which are properly combinations of oxymuriatic acid with inflammable bases , may be easily explained , according to these views of the subject .
When water is added in certain quantities to Libavius 's liquor , a solid crystallized mass is obtained , from which oxide of tin and muriate of ammonia can be procured by ammonia .
In this case , oxygene may be conceived to be supplied to the tin , and hydrogene to the oxymuriatic acid .
The compound formed by burning phosphorus in oxymuriatic acid , is in a similar relation to water : if that substance be added to it , it is resolved into two powerful acids ; oxygene , it may be supposed , is furnished to the phosphorus to form phosphoric acid , hydrogene to the oxymuriatic acid to form common muriatic acid gas .
None of the combinations of the oxymuriatic acid with inflammable bodies , can be decomposed by dry acids ; and this seems to be the test which distinguishes the oxymuriatic combinations from the muriates , though they have hitherto been confounded together .
Muriate of potash for instance , if M. BERTHOLLET'S estimation of its composition , approaches towards accuracy , when ignited , is a compound of oxymueS38 riatic acid with potassium ; muriate of ammonia , is a compound of muriatic acid gas and ammonia ; and when acted on by potassium , it is decompounded ; the oxymuriatic acid may be conceived to combine with the potassium to form muriate of potash , and the ammonia and hydrogene are set free .
The vivid combustion of bodies in oxymuriatic acid gas , at first view , appears a reason whiy oxygene should be admitted in it ; but heat and light are merely results of the intense agency of combination .
Sulphur and metals , alkaline earths and acids become ignited during their mutual agency ; and such an effect might be expected in an operation so rapid , as that of oxymuriatic acid upon metals and inflammable bodies .
It may be said , that a strong argument in favour of the hypothesis , that oxymuriatic acid consists of an acid basis united to oxygene , exists in the general analogy of the compounds of oxymuriatic acid and metals , to the common neutral salts ; but this analogy when strictly investigated , will be found to be very indistinct , and even allowing it , it maybe applied with as much force to support an opposite doctrine , namely , that the neutral salts are compounds of bases with water ; and the metals of bases with hydrogene ; and that in the case of the action of oxymuriatic acid and metals , the metal furnishes hydrogene to form muriatic acid , and a basis to produce the neutral combination .
That the quantity of hydrogene evolved during the decomposition of muriatic acid gas by metals , is the same that would be produced during the decomposition of water by the same bodies , appears , at first view , an evidence in favour of the existence of water in muriatic acid gas ; but as there is only one known combination of hydrogene with oxymuriatic acid , li 2 g39 one quantity must always be separated .
Hydrogene is dis engaged from its oxymuriatic combination , by a metal , in the same manner as one metal is disengaged by another , from similar combinations ; and of all inflammable bodies that form compounds of this kind , except perhaps phosphorus and sulphur , hydrogene is that which seems to adhere to oxymuriatic acid with the least force .
I have caused strong explosions from an electrical jar , to pass through oxymuriatic gas , by means of points of platina , for several hours in succession ; but it seemed not to undergo the slightest change .
I electrized t !
e oxymuriates of phosphorus and sulphur for some hours , by the power of the VOLTAIC apparatus of iooo double plates ; no gas separated , but a minute quantity of hydrogene , which I am inclined to attribute to the presence of moisture in the apparatus employed ; for I once obtained hydrogene from Libavius 's liquor by a similar operation ; but I have ascertained , that this was owing to the decomposition of water , adhering to the mercury ; and in some late experiments made with 2000 double plates , in which the discharge was from platina wires , and in which the mercury used for confining the liquor was carefully boiled , there was no production of any permanent elastic matter .
As there are no experimental evidences of the existence of oxygene in oxymuriatic acid gas , a natural question arises , concerning the nature of these compounds , in which the muriatic acid has been supposed to exist , combined with much more oxygene than oxymuriatic acid , in the state in which it has been named by Mr. CHENEVIX , hyperoxygenized muriatic acid .
24o Can the oxymuriatic acid combine either with oxygene or hydrogene , and form with each of them an acid compound ; of which that with hvdrogene has the slrongest , and that with oxygene the weakest affiiity for bases ?
for the able chemist to whom I have just referred , conceives that hyperoxymuriates are decomposed by niuriatic acid .
Or , is hyperoxymuriatic acid the basis of all this class of bodies , the most simple form of this species of matter ?
The phenomenon of the composition and decomposition of the hyperoxymuiriates , maybe explained on either of these suppositions ; but they are mere suppositions unsupported by ex ?
perimeat .
I have endeavoured to obtain the neutralizing acid , which has been imagined to be hyperoxygenised , from hyperoxymuriate of potash .
by various modes , but uniformly without success .
By distilling the salt with dry boracic acid , though a little oxymuriatic acid is generated , yet oxygene is the chief gaseous product , and a muriate of potash not decomposable is produced .
The distillation of the orange coloured fluid , produced by dissolving hyperoxynluriate of potash in sulphuric acid , affords only oxygene in great excess , and oxymuriatic acid .
When solutions of muriates , or muriatic acid are electrized in the VOLTAIC circuit , oxymuriatic acid is evolved at the positive surface , and hydrogene at the negative surface .
When a solution of oxy muriatic acid in water is electrized , oxymuriatic acid and oxygene appear at the positive surface , * The quantity of oxymuriatic acid in the aqueous solution , is so small , that the prinicipal products must be referred to the deconposition of water .
This happens in other instances ; the water only is decomposed in dilute solutions of nitric and sulphuric acids .
241 and hydrogene at the negative surface , facts which are certainly unfavourable to the idea of the existence of hyperoxygenised muriatic acid , whether it be imagined a compound of oxymuriatic acid with oxygene , or the basis of oxymuriatic acid .
If the facts respecting the hyperoxymuriate of potash , indeed , be closely reasoned upon , it must be regarded as nothing more than as a triple compound of oxymuriatic acid , potassium , and oxygene .
We have no right to assume the existence of any peculiar acid in it , or of a considerable portion of combined water ; and it is perhaps more conformable to the analogy of chemistry , to suppose the large quantity of oxygene combined with the potassium , which we know has an intense affinity for oxygene , and which from some experiments , I am inclined to believe , is capable of combining directly with more oxygene than exists in potash , than with the oxymuriatic acid , which , as far as is known , has no affinity for that substance .
It is generally supposed that a mixture of oxymuriatic acid and hyperoxymuriatic acid is disengaged when hyperoxymuriate of potash is decomposed by common muriatic acid ; * but I am satisfied from several trials , that the gas procured in this way , when not mixed with oxygene , unites to the same quantity of hydrogene , t as common oxymuriatic acid gas from manganese ; and I find , by a careful examination , that the gas disengaged during the solution of platina , in a mixture Ifhyperoxymuriate of potash be decomposed by nitric or sulphuric acid , it affords oxymuriatic acid and oxygene , If it be acted upon by muriatic acid , it affords a large quantity of oxymuriatic acid gas only .
In this last case , the phenomenon seems merely to depend upon the decomposition of the muriatic acid gas , by the oxygene , loosely combined in the salt .
t This likewise appears from Mr. CR Ui KSHA N K ' experiments .
See Nicholson 's Journal , Vol. V. 4to .
p. 206 .
4 2 M43 of nitric and muriatic acids , which has been regarded as hyperoxymuriatic acid , but which I stated some years ago to possess the properties of oxymuriatic acid gas , * is actually that body , owing its peculiar colour to a small quantity of nitromuriatic vapour suspended in it , and from which it is easily freed by washing .
Few substances , perhaps , have less claim to be considered as acid , than oxyrmuriatic acid .
As yet we have no right to say that it has been decompounded ; and as its tendency of combination is with pure inflammable matters , it may possibly belong to the same class of bodies as oxygene .
May it not in fact be a peculiar acidifying and dissolving principle , forming compounds with combustible bodies , analogous to acids containing oxygene , or oxides , in their properties and powers of combination ; but differing from them , in being for the most part , decomposable by water ?
On this idea muriatic acid may be considered as having hydrogene for its basis , and oxymuriatic acid for its acidifying principle .
And the phosphoric sublimate as having phosphorus for its basis , and oxynmuriatic acid for its acidifying matter .
And Libavius 's liquor , and the compounds of arsenic with oxymu* The platina , I find by several experiments , made with great care , has no share in producing the evolution of this gas .
It is formed during the production of aqua regia .
The hydrogene of the muriatic acid attracts oxygene from the nitric acid , Oxymuriatic acid gas is set free , and nitrous gas remains in the solution , and gives it a deep red colour .
Nitrous acid and muriatic acid produce no oxymuriatic acid gas .
Platina , during its solution in perfectly formed aqua regia , gives only nitrouls gas and nitrous vapour ; and I find , that rather more oxymuriatic acid gas is produced , by heating together equal quantities of nitric acid of 1.45 , and muriatic aidd of 1.i8 , when they are not in contact with platina , than when exposed to that metal .
The oxymuriatic acid gas , produced from muriatic acid by nitric acid , I find combines with about an equal volume of hydrogene by detonation .
riatic acid , may be regarded as analogous bodies .
The combinations of oxymuriatic acid with lead , silver , mercury , potassium , and sodium , in this view would be considered as a class of bodies related more to oxides than acids , in their powers of attraction .
It is needless to take up the time of this learned Society by dwelling upon the imperfection of the modern nomenclature of these substances .
It is in ma:ny cases connected with false ideas of their nature and composition , and in a more advanced state of the enquiry , it will be necessary for the progress of science , that it should undergo material alterations .
It is extremely probable that there are many combinations of the oxymuriatic acid with inflammable bodies which have not been yet investigated .
With bphosphorus it seems capable of combining in at least three proportions ; the phosphuretted muriatic acid of GAY LUSSAC and THENARD is thie compound containing the maximum of phosphorus .
The crystalline phosphoric sublimate , and the liquor formed by the combustion of phosphorus in oxymuriatic acid gas , disengage no phosphorus by the action of water ; the sublimate , as I have already mentioned , affords phosphoric and muriatic acid ; and the liquid , I believe only phosphorous acid and muriatic acid .
The sublimate from the boracic basis gives , I believe , only boracic and muriatic acid , and may be regarded as boracium acidified by oxymuriatic acid .
It is evident , that whenever an oxymuriatic combination is decomposed by water , the oxide or acid or alkali or oxidated body formed must be in the same proportion as the muriatic acid gas , as the oxygene and hydrogene must bear the same relation to each other ; and experiments upon these comn pounds will probably afford simple modes of ascertaining the proportions of the elements , in the different oxides , acids , and alkaline earths .
If according to the ingenious idea of Mr. DALTON , hydrogene be considered as t in weight , in the proportion it exists in water , then oxygene will be nearly 7.5 ; and assuming that potash is composed of 1 proportion of oxygene , and i of potassium , then potash will be 48 , and potassium * about 40.5 ; and from an experiment which I have detailed in the last Bakerian lecture , on the combustion of potassium in muriatic acid gas , oxymuriatic acid will be represented by 32.9 , and muriatic acid gas , of course , by 33.9 ; and this estimation agrees with the specific gravity of oxymuriatic acid gas , and muriatic acid gas .
From my experiments , loo cubical inches of oxymuriatic acid gas weigh , the reductions being made for the mean temperature and pressure , 74.5 grains ; whereas by estimation they should weigh 74.6 .
Muriatic acid gas I find weighs .
, under like circumstances , in the quantity of loo cubic inches , 39 grains ; by estimation it should weigh 38.4 grains .
It is easy from these data , knowing the composition of any dry muriate , to ascertain the quantity of oxide or of acid it would ftlrnish by the action of water , and consequently the quantity of oxygene with which the inflammable matter will combine.t In considering the dry muriates , as compounds of oxymuriatic acid and inflammable bodies ; the argument that I have used in thie last Bakerian lecture , to show that potassium does not form hydrate of potash by combustion , is considerably st-regthened ; for from the quantity of oxymuriatic acid the metal requires to produce a muriate , it seems to be shown that it is the simplest known form of the alkaline matter .
This I think approaches to an experimentum crucis .
Potash made by alcohol , and that has been heated to redness , appears to be an hydrat of potash , whilst the potash formed by the combustion of potassium must be considered as a pure metallic oxide , which requires about 19 per cent. of water to convert into a hydrat .
Amongst all the known combustible bodies , charcoal is the only one which does not combine directly with oxymuriatic acid gas ; and yet there is reason for believing that this commust be assumed to exist in ammonia , will be exactly sufficient to neutralize the hy .
drogene , in an equal volume of muriatic acid ; or if it be said that ammonium is a compound of z of ammonia and I of hydrogene in volume , then equal volumes of muriatic acid gas and ammonia will produce the same compound as oxymuriatic acid and ammonium , supposing they could be immediately combined .
I once thought that the phanomena of metallization might be explained according to a modified phlogistic theory , by supposing three different classes of metallic bodies : First , The metal of ammonia , in which hydrogene was so loosely combined as to be separable with great ease , and which , in consequence of the small affinity of the basis for water , it had little tendency to combine with oxygene .
The second , the metals of the alkalies and alkaline earths , in which the hydrogene was more firmly combined , but in combustion , forming water capable of being separated from the basis .
And , thirdly , the metals of the earths and common metals , in which the hydrogene was more intimately combined ; producing by unioni with oxygene , water not separable by any new attractions .
Thz phenomena of the action of potassium and sodium upon muriatic acid , referred to in the text , seen however to overturn these speculations so far as they concern thea metals from the fxed alkalies , binatiion may be formed by the intermedium of hydrogene .
I am inclined to Conlsider the oily substance prodtuce by the action of oxylutriaaic acid g acnd olefant gas , as a tncrdary compound of these bodies ; for they combine nearly in equal volumes ; and I find that , by the action of potassium upon the oil so produced , muriate of potash is formed , and gaseous matter which I have not yet been able to collect in sufficient quantity to decide upon its nature , is formed .
Artificial camphor , and muriatic ether , as is probable from the ingenious experiments of M. GEHLEN and M. THENARD , must be combinations of a similar kind , one probably with more hydrogene , and the other with more carbon .
One of the greatest problems in occonomical chemistry , is the decomposition of the muriates of soda and potash .
The solution of this problem will , perhaps , be facilitated by these new views .
The affinity of potassium and sodium for oxymuriatic acid , is very strong ; but so likewise is their attraction for oxygene , and the affinity of their oxides for water .
The a-lnitiies of oxymuriatic acid gas for hydrogene , and of muriatic acid gas for water , , are likewise of a powerful kind .
Water , therefore , should be present in all cases , when it is intended to attempt to produce alkali .
It is not difficult after these views to explain the decomposition of common salt , by alumrinous or silicious substances , which , as it has been long known , act only when they contain water .
In these cases the sodium may be conceived to combine with the oxygene of the water and with the earth , to form a vitreous compound ' ; and the oxyauriatic acid to unite with the hydrogene of the water , frming muriatic acid gas .
It is also easy , according to these new ideas , to explain kk 2'47 the decomposition of salt by moistened litharge , the theory of which has so much perplexed the most acute chemists .
It may be conceived to be an instance of compound affinity : the oxymuriatic acid is attracted by the lead , and the sodium combines with the oxygene of the litharge and with water to form hydrat of soda , whichr gradually attracts carbonic acid from the air .
As iron has a strong affinity for oxymuriatic acid , I attempted , to procure soda by passing steam over a mixture of iron filings , and muriate of soda intensely heated : and in this way , I succeeded in decomposing some of the salt : hydrogene came over ; a little hydrate of soda was formed ; and muriate of iron was produced .
It does not seem improbable , supposing the views that have been developed accurate , that by complex affinities , even potassium and sodium in their metallic form , may be procured from their oxymuriatic combinations : for this purpose the oxymu .
riatic acid should be attracted by one substance , and the alkaline metals by another ; and such bodies should be selected for the experiment , as would produce compounds differing conside rabxrl in degree of volatility .
I cannot conclude the subject of the application of these doctrines , without asking permission to direct the attention of the Society , to some of the theoretical relations of the facts noticed in the preceding pages .
That a body principally composed of oxymuriatic acid and ammonia , two substances which have been generally conceived Incapable of existing together , should be so dfficult of decomposition , as to be scarcely affeted by any of the agents , of chemistry , -is a phenomenon 'of a perfectly new .
kind . !
4 oS 'Three bodies , two of which are permanent gases , and the other of which is considerably volatile , form in this instance , a substance neither fusible nor volatile , at a white heat .
It could not have been expected that ammonia would remain fixed at such a temperature ; but that it should remain fixed in combination with oxy muriatic acid , would have appeared incre~ dible , acco rding to all the existing analogies of chemistry .
The experiments on which these conclusions are founded , are , how~ever , uniform in their results : and it is easy to repeat them .
IThey seyem to show , that the common chemical pr:oposition , that complexity of composition is uniformly connected with facility of decomposition , is not well founded .
The compound of oxy muriatic acid , phosphorus , and am .
inonia , resembles an oxide , such as silex , or that of columbium in its general chemical characters , and is as refractory when treated by common re-agents ; and except by the effects of combustion , or the agency of fuised potash , its nature could not be detected by any of the usual methods of analysis .
Is it not likely , reasoning from these circumstances , that many of the substances , now supposed to be elementary , may bereduced into simpler forms of matter ?
And that an intense attraction , and aLn equilibrium of attraction , may give to a compound , containing several constituents , that refractory character , which is generally attributed to unity of constitution , or to the homo-- , cneous nature of its parts ?
Besides the compound of the phosphoric sublimate and ammonia , a !
n ; d the other analogous compounds which have been referred to , it is probable that other compounds , of like nature may be formed of the oxides , alkalies , and eartihs , ; ith the oxymuriatic combinations , or of the oxymuriatic compounds with each other ; and should this be the case , the more refined analogies of chemical philosophy will be extended by these new , and as it would seem at first view , contradictory facts .
For if , as I have said , oxymuriatic acid gas be referred to the same class of bodies as oxygene gas , then , as oxygene is not an acid , but forms acids by combining with certain inflammable bodies , so oxymuriatic acid , by uniting to similar substances , may be conceived to form either acids , which is the case when it combines with hydrogene , or compounds like acids or oxides , capable of formini neutral combinations , as in the instances of the oxymuriates of phosphorus and tin .
JIike oxygene , oxymuriatic acid is attracted by the positive surface in VOLTAIC combinations ; and on the hypothesis of the connection of chemical attraction with electrical powers , all its energies of combination correspond with those of a body supposed to be negative in a high degree .
And in most of-its compounds , except those containing the alkaline metals , which may be conceived in the highest degree positive , and " the metals with which it forms insoluble compounds , it seems still to retain its negative character .
I shall occupy the time of the Society for a few minutes longer only , for the purpose of detailing a few observations connected with the Bakerian lectures , delivered in the two last years ; particularly those parts of them relating to sulphur and phosphorus , which new and more minute enquiries have enabled me to correct or extend .
I have already mentioned that there are considerable differences in the results of experiments , made on the action of potassium , on sulphur and phosphorus , and their combinations with hydrogene , according to different circumstances of the process .
I shall now refer to such of these circumstances as I have been able fully to investigate .
The able researches of Dr. THOMSON have shown that sulphur , in its usual state , contains small quantities of acid matter ; and though , in my first experiments , I conceived that by employing chrystalized native sulphur , which had been recently sublimed in nitrogene , I should avoid the presence of any foreign matter , yet I am inclined to believe that this is not the case ; for by subliming some similar sulphur in nitrogene , I find that litmus paper placed in the upper part of the retort isslightly reddened .
When potassium is made to unite with sulphur , if the retort employed is not lined with sulphur , some of the potassium is destroyed by acting upon the glass ; and when large quantities of sulphur are used , it is very difficult to decompose the whole of the sulphuret of potassium by an acid : sulphuretted hydrogene likewise is soluble in muriatic acid ; and this circumstance led me to under-rate the quantity of sulphuretted , hydrogene given off in experiments of this kind.* In acting upon sulphuretted hydrogene by potassium in my early experiments , I used large quantities of the gas and of the metal ; and in these cases I have reason to believe that the violence of the combustion , occasioned the decomposition .
of a considerable quantity of the gas ; and , in consequence , led me to form erroneous conclusions concerning the nature of this curious operation .
In all late experiments in which sulphur , or sulphuretted hydrogene were concerned , I haveused muriatic acid saturated with sulphuretted hydrogene over mercury .
I have employed sulphur distilled from iron pyrites in vacuo , which did not in the slightest degree affect litmus paper , and I have combined it with potassium in retorts of green-glass , or plate-glass lined with sulphur and filled with very pure nitrogene or hydrOgene .
In making potassium act upon sulphuretted hydrogene , I have employed the gas only in the quantities of from 1 to 3 cubical inches , and have made the combination in narrow curved tubes of green glass over dry mercury , With all these precautions , and after having made a great number of experiments , I am not able to gain perfectly uniform results .
Yet there is a sufficient correspondence between them to enable me to fortm conclusions , which I may venture to say cannot be far from the truth .
When i grain of potassium , which would give by the action of water about i cubical inch and of hydrogene is made to act upon about half a grain of sulphur , some sulphur sublinies during the combination , which always takes place with heat and light , and from to -.of a cubical inch of sulphuretted hydrogene is evolved .
T'he compound acted on by muriatic acid , saturated with sulphuretted hydrogene , affords from to 4 of a cubical inch of pure sulphuretted Ihydrogene .
When more sulphur is used so as to be from twice to ten times the weight of the potassium , the quantity of sulphuretted hydrogene evolved by the action of the acdd , is from 7 to 9 but if heat be applied to th combination , so as to drive off the superfluous sulphur , the quantity of gas collected is very little inferior to that produced from the combination in which a small proportion of sulphur is used ; and I am inclined to believe , from the phenomena presented in a great number of experiments , that sulphur and potassium , when heated together under common circumstances , combine only in one proportion , in which the metal is to the sulphur nearly as 3 to i in weight ; and in which the quantities are such that the compound burns into neutral sulphate of potash .
When a grain of potassium is made to act upon about 1.i cubical inches of sulphuretted hydrogene , all the hydrogene Is set free , and a sulphuret of potassium containing one fourth of sulphur is formed , exactly the same as that produced by the immediate combination of sulphur and the metal .
When sulphuretted hydrogene is employed in larger quantities , there is an absorption of this gas , and a volume is taken up about equal to the quantity of hydrogene disengaged , and a compound of sulph uretted hydrogene and sulphuret of potash is formed , which gives sulphuretted hydrogene by the action of an acid , nearly double in quantity to that given by the sulphuret of potassium .
From a number of experiments I am inclined to believe that potassium and phosphorus , in whatever quantities they are heated together , combine only in one proportion , a grain of potassium requiring about of a grain of phosphorus to form a phosphuret ; which when acted upon by muriatic acid , produces from.~ to o of a cubical inch of phosphuretted hydrogene .
Half a grain of potassium decomposes nearly three cubical inches of phosphuretted hydrogene , and sets free rather more than four cubical inches of hydrogene ; and the phosphuret formed see ts io be of the same kind as that produced by direct combination of the metal with phosphorus .
If , accordni to Mr. D. ALTON'S ideas of proportion , the quantity in which sulphur enters into its combinations were to be deduced from its union with potassium , in which it seems to form about the weight of the compound , the number reprersenting it woul4 be 13.5 .
I have lately weighed sulphuretted hydrogene , and sulphureous acid gas , with great care the specific gravity of the first at mean temperature and pressure , from ny experiments , is 10645 , which differs very little from the estimation of Mr. KIRWAN : that of sulphureous acid gas I find is o0967 .
Sulphuretted hydrogene , as I have shown , contains an equal volume of hydrogene ; and on this datum the number representing sulphur is 13.4 .
I have never been able to burn sulphur in oxygene without forming sulphuric acid in small quantities ; but in several experime nts I have obtained from 92 to 98 parts of sulphureous acid from loo of oxygene in volume ; from which I am inclined to believe , that sulphureous acid consists of sulphur dissolved in an equal voluIe of oxygene ; which would give the number as 13.7* nearly , considering the acid gas as containing 1 pro+ The estimation from the composition of sulphuretted hydrogene , must be considered as most accurate , and that from the formation of the sulphuret of potassium as least accurate : for it was only by combining sulphur and potassium in small proportions , and ascertaining in what cases uncombined sulphur could be d'isilled from the compound , that I gained my conclusions concerning the composition of the sull phuret of potassium .
In the last Bakeian lecture , I have estimated the specific gravity of sulphuretted portion of sulphur , and of oxygene ; and these estimation ' do not differ from each other materially .
I have made several experiments on the combustion of phosphorus in oxygene gas .
From the most accurate , I am inclined to conclude that 25 of phosphorus absorb in combustion about 34 of oxygene in weight ; and considering phosphoric acid as composed of 3 proportions of oxygene and X of phosphorus , the number representing phosphorus will be about 16.5 , which is not very remote from the number that may be deduced from the composition of phosphoret of potassium .
T'he numbers which represent the proportions in which sulphur and phosphorus unite with other bodies , are such , as do not exclude the existence of combined portions of oxygene and hydrogene in their constitution ; but it may be questioned , whether the opinion which I formed , that the inflammable gas disengaged from them by electricity , is necessary to the peculiar form in which these bodies exist , is not erroneous .
Phosphorus , as I have stated in the last Bakerian lecture , is capable of forming a solid hydruret : and a part of the sulphur distilled from iron pyrites , is usually of a soft consistence , and emits the smell of sulphuretted hydrogene , and probably contains that body .
It is not unlikely , that in all cases , phosphorus and sulphur contain small quantities of the Ihydrurets of phosphorus and sulphur ; and the production of a minute portion of sulphuric acid in the slow combustion of sulphur , is prohydrogene at 35 grains , the Ioo cubical inches , which was not far from the meanv between the estimations of Mr. KIRWAN and Mr. THEN ARD .
According to this last experiment , sulphuretted hydrogene is composed of X proportion of hydrogene .
represented by i , and I of sulphur represented by 1 3 , LI s ^SW bably connected with the production of water .
Though the pure oxides of sulphur and phosphorus have never been obtained , yet from the doctrine of definite proportions , these bodies ought , under certain circumstances , to be formed .
And I am inclined to believe , that they sometimes exist in minute quantiies , in common phosphorus and sulphur , and with hydrogene , give to them their variable properties .
The colours of different specimens of phosphorus , as well as of sulphur , differ considerably ; the red colour of phosphorus as it is commonly prepared , is probably owing to a slight mixture of oxide .
Common roll sulphur is of a very pale yellow , the Sicilian sulphur of an orange colour , and the sulphur distilled from iron pyrites in vacuo , which arose in the last period of the process , of a pale yellowish green colour .
All the late experiments that I have made , as well as my former researches , induce me ito suspect a notable proportion of oxygene in Sicilian sulphur , which is probably owing to the presence of oxide of sulphur , which may give rise to sulphluric acid in distillation , or to sulphuric acid itself .
Conceiving that if definite proportions of oxygene and hydrogene existe in sulphur and phosphorus , they ought to be manifested in the agency of oxymuriatic acid gas on these bodies , I made some experiments on the results of these operations .
In the first trial , on the combination of sulphur with oxymuriate acid gas , I employed 5 grains of roll sulphur , nd admfi tted the gas into the exhausted retort , from a vessel in which it had been in contact witih varm twater : in this case more than a half a cubical i-nch of oxygene gas , and nearly two cubical inches of muriatic acid gas , were produced..Su spe:-1nTc,.m n this -ns-ance , tat aqueous vapour had been decomposed , I employed cold water in the next experiment , and dried the gas by muriate of lime ; in this case , though Sicilian sulphur was used , no oxygene gas was evolved ; and not a half a cubical inch of muriatic acid ; the quantity was the same as in the last experiment ; and it was found , that between 16 and 17 cubical irnches of oxymuriatic acid gas disappeared ; the whole of the saulphur was sublimed in the gas , and the liquor formed , was of a tawny orange colour .
No oxygene was expelled during the combustion of phosphorus in oxymuriatic acid gas , nor could I ascertain that any muriatic acid had been formed ; 3 grains of phosphorus were entirely converted into sublimate , by the absorption of about 23 cubical inches and a half of the gas .
It would seem from these quantities , that the sulphuretted liquor formed by subliming sulphur in oxymuriatic acid gas , consists of x proportion of sulphur , represented by 13.5 , and a of xymnuriatic gas represented by 32,9 , and that the phosphoric sublimate must be composed of g portions of oxymuriatic gas , represented by 98.7 , and i of phosphorus represented by i6.5

