]\gt ; Forces in Surface Filrns .
Part I. Part II.\mdash ; Experimental Part III.\mdash ; The on Colloids .
By A. M. WILLIAMS , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Chemistry Departnnent , Univcrsity of Edinburgh .
( Communicated by Prof. James Walker , Received Angnt 16 ( Parts I and II ) , and September 22 Part PART I. In an earlier paper*on the adsorption of vapours , the author was led to make the assumption that the specific volume of the last portion of fluid adsorbed from the saturated yapour phase was the same as the specific volume of the liquid in equilibriunn with the vapour .
This led to a consideration of the nature of the surface film , and certain consequences of variation in density there from Che density of the liquid in bulk were immediately obvious , and are discussed below .
Expel.imental proof one of these was easily obtained by the author , and , recently , certain observers , the sub , ject from a different aspect , have published evidence with a prolnise of work .
Let us consider the determination of the density of a finely divided solid by the usual immersion method , assuming that all ases such as air removed from the solid and the ) liquid .
Let us asstllle tlpo the surface of the solid there is a film amounting to per nnne solid where the mean specific of the liquid is of value for the liquid in bulk .
If the true specific volume of the solid is and is the volume or ( Iinarily observed and calculated without to then , from a consideration of the total volume occupied by a gramn ] of the solid and the .
film , we see that and .
( 1 ) The second term on the right-hand side of ( 1 ) will only assnme importance in the case of substances with a very large specific surface , and here , to the different compressibilities of various liquids , it seems reasonable to 'Trans .
Faraday Soc vol. 10 , p. 167 ( 1914 ) .
Cude and Hulett , ' .
Amer .
Chem. Soc vol. 42 , ] ( 1920 ) .
224 Dr. A. M. Williams .
expect to vary from liquid to liquid , and hence to vary from liquid to liquid .
This , in fact , has been observed by the author and others .
There is a second source of variation of , for the surface may not be equally accessible to molecules of different liquids .
Thus there may be portion of the surface accessible to a water molecule ( van der Waals ' , not accessible to a chloroforu molecule WG llay therefore as the space enlbraced by 1 .
of the solid and not occupied by the liquid molecules when immersed in the liquid of greatest , power , hich for practical purposes is water .
We may conceive of a particle of the solid as possessing regions , which holes not accessible even to watel molecules or ions , while another hole , is accessible to water but not to .
Hence includes the rtion s of space , and , for water , equation ( 1 ) holds .
On the other , if we denote the volume of the portions / by the symbol , the equation for chloroform is , ( 2 ) where the ( Jashes cfel .
the ious quantities to chloroform .
Hence with a substance of iilrface not equally accessible to different liquids , we should be able to group determinations of the specific volume according to varying values of , if could determine the quantities on the rightside of ) .
rouping will presumably follow the order of molecular Let us now assume we are dealing with a group of liquids for which the accessible surface of ) solid under examination is the same .
From equation ( 2 ) , if we graph fainst we will obtain a line whose intercept on the 'axi is .
But the value of ) is not ordinarily known , for while may be nined from obseryations on adsorption from the vapour is known , remains undetermined save from theoretical considerations .
If we could select a function of , we would obtain a curye the required intercept on plotting such function against , but there is no obvious fimctio available .
On the other hand , it seems reasonable to assume that the less conn)ressil ) a liquid is the smaller the value of .
Thus for an incompressible liqnid , and here , therefore , Hence , if we could obtain ) servations on a sufficient of liquids with different compressil ) iliticH , it should be possible to extrapolate to a value of from the curve .
Once this value was obtained equation ( 2 ) would give us and if and were known would be known , and hence also the compressive ( or distensive ) force Forces in Films .
acting on the interfacial film .
Denoting by the pressure hich changes to , and by the mean compressibility of the liquid for the range of pressure considered we and Since ) , with , it evidenlly ) to have estimate of the of vary from liquid to liquid ) before we select the values of the compressibility to be used as indicated above , and so recourse must be de to theoretical considerations .
The author has previously* identified the compressiye force in question with ring r to cohesion in liquids and represented by the in van Waals ' equation , Since the attraction of a liquid for itself is represented approximately by the expression or : we may assume that the ction between the solid and the liquid in the film is approximately represented by where and refer to the solid and and to the liquid .
This is the attraction per unit area across the interface solidliquid .
We may now conceive two cases to arise as the adsorbed fluid is almost entirely surrounded by the adsorbent , that is , in capillary tubes or is only bounded on one side by the adsorbent .
In the first cas it is easy to conceive of the whole adsorbed fluid as under the cohesive attraction of adsorbent provided the capillaries are sufficiently small , In the second case the collpresion will be very reat in the molecular layer next the adsorbent and fall rapidly to zero within a few layers .
We 11lay , therefore , for purposes of calculation asstune interfacial film in this case to be in two parts , one half being highly umder the influence of the adsorbent while the compression in the other half under attraction of the liquid is relatively small .
In the first case we assume the total amount adsorbed is compressed , in the second case that only is compressed .
It is obvious these assumptions could be made with regard to the calculations based on the graphical method ested in the preceding paragraph , and in any case the assumption will lead to a smaller estimate of the mean compressive force acting on the adsorbate , since a greater volume is compressed .
This assumption we will adopt , taking the whole fluid in the adsorption layer as of specific volume , under au attractive force .
This force will function , both as an external pressure 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 96 , , p. 287 ( 1919 ) , Dr. A. M. Williams .
and as an " " internal\ldquo ; pressure so that the fluid in the film will be as.if under an external force such that .
( 4 ) Equation ( 4 ) may also be derived considering that the pull inwards of the adsorbent will be opposed by the internal cohesion of the film itself leaving an excess to function as a pressure .
From ( 4 ) we derive an expression for as , ( 5 ) an expression for as .
( 6 ) Since obseryations on the compression of a liquid give us the relation between and , if we determine one of these we can further determine or the " " internal\ldquo ; bsure of the adsorbent .
PART II .
of The substance selected as possessing a surface large enough to give the effect for was blood charcoal .
Some highly purified material was dried in an oven at 12 C. and subsequently transferred to a desiccator over phosphorus pentoxide where it was kept several weeks .
The specific volume was determined by the usual method employed in the case of powdel'S using a silica specific rity bottle of approximately 50 .
Two liquids were employed , water and chlorolorm .
About 2 grms. of the charcoal were rapidly weighed in the specific gravity bottle and then covered with the liquid .
The bottle was now placed in a bath of the liquid and the temperature raised to the boiling point with careful stirring , and kept there for several hours .
The bottle was then completely filled with the boiled liquid and the stopper inserted at a marked position .
The stopper had a cup-shaped top in which was placed excess of the liquid to allow for contraction and evaporation during immersion in the thermostat .
After sufficient immersion the meniscus was adjusted , the cup stoppered , and the bottle removed , cooled to weighing-room temperature , dried , and subsequently weighed .
It was found possible by this simple method* to obtain readingH with chloroform alone at C. , whose variation from the mean was not more than 1 corresponding to an error of in the thermostat temperature .
In the subsequent calculations the weight of the charcoal was corrected for the * Those experiments were made in 1919 before the publication of the paper by Cude Hulett .
They were first attenlpted in 1916 with a glass .
bottle .
Forces in ) Film adsorbed gases which were present when it was weighed , and which were expelled on immersion in the liquid .
The values of thus obtained were consistent within per cent. A specimen determination and calculation is given below in Table I , where is the correction for adsorbed gases , and Table I. ation\mdash ; Temperature of Mass in air of .
74097 105 charcoal .
1877 1877 charcoal 74 .
1 . . .
1229 Volume of Spec. vol. of charcoal . .
the mass in air 01 : the oroform apparently displaced by the evacuated chal.coal , .
It will be seen that after several hours ' consistent results were obtained .
The was the chloroform , hich was found free from charring on shaking with } trated sulphuric acid .
It was shaken up with water to dissolve out alcohol and then treated with fused calcium chloride , to remove water , subsequently with fused caustic potash , to destroy carbonyl chloride , etc. , decanted , and distilled .
On fractional distillation practically the whole preparation assed over between at 764 cm .
pressure .
Three determination of the chloroform in the .
bottle at C. , and , corrected to vacuo .
The mean value gave a density of .
per cubic centimetre at C. , while a second preparation .
After decantation from the charcoal the density of the first preparat , ion was found to be ( one determination ) .
The divergence is within the limits of errors of observation and there is no evidence of arted to , or withdrawn from , the chloroforn1 upon contact with the adsorbent .
It may be mentioned that the density at , as determined by Thorpe was , while Pierre gives The values of for water were found to be and at C. , and and at C. , while for chloroform the values were and at C. Thus at C. the mean values were and .
A. M. Williams .
well outside any possible nelltal error .
It may .
here be pointed out that any error in the correction for gases adsorbed and subseexpelled would alter the values in practically the same proportion .
compare these results with tbose obtained by Cude and Hulett ( ' .
cit. ) from their less finely divided charcoal .
This is done in bless III itnd .
Hcre the last column gives the compression at C. of the iven able 1 .
Liquid .
0360.020 Table ( Cude and Hulett ) .
iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; iquid .
\mdash ; 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.53 ) 0.504 6070.566 0.034 under a presstlle of 500 ) .
data are taken and from It will be seen that in the case of Table III ressibility appears to be a chief factor determinating the value of , while in Table the determinations fall into two groups according as is greater or less than , say , is , while we may assume that the used by the present author had a surface equally accessible to water ecules , this assumption could scarcely be made for other specimen and liquids employed .
This is in accordance with the theory developed in Part I. It may also be pointed out that freezes at C. under a ) ressure of about 670 atmospheres with a change in volume of .
per gramme while carbon tectrachloride at C. freezes under about1,400 atmospheres with a change iu volume of only .
per granl1ne .
llot be ulconnected with the variation of observed , which is certainly in the rGquired direction , the compression of the under suitable pressure reater than that of the rachloride .
It is obvious that il the surface of the first charcoal was not so accessible 'Proc .
Amer .
Aoad .
Arts and Sc vol. 47 , p. ; vol. 49 , p. 1 ( 1913 ) .
Richards , Stull , Mathews , and Speyers , 'Jour .
Amer .
Chem. Soc vol. 34 , p. 988 Bridgulan , .
Rev. ' ( 2 ) , vol. 3 , , 163 ( 1914 ) .
Forces in Surface Films .
the cbloroform as to the water , an increase in the accessibility to the chloroform would reduce the corresponding yalue both because more space would be occupied by the chloroforlu and because the extra chloroform would be compressed .
( We are not considering such a splitting up as would sensibly reduce the collesive forces of the dsorbent .
) A correction thus introduced would lower the value of the -hand side of ( 7 ) below and reduce to some extent the estinlate of the cohesive forces .
of of ohesion .
years author made a series of observations on the lnass of vapour picked up ) .
of acnated ccoal from the saturated vapour of liquids .
He ) deted , n.y rity in the results , iucll a for nnple , that of volumos found by with ( by with fuller 's which led these authol .
S and to conclude that the tely equal represented the volume of capillary pores of the adsorbent .
of the .
lack of any simple relation among the values found , the periments w never published , but the determinations on .
and chloroform have now roved useful .
The charcoal was at C. by a Topler i.e. , under conditions comparable with the boiling out the liquid in the later .
After making all corl.ections , of two closely concordant ervations at C. for watel .
and chloroform .
Hence the volnme of the water was and of the oform 0 .
These volumes are not , nor apparently are the volumes under ression on the adsorbent , for then would which is not true .
Instead we have the equations , , whence .
( 7 ) Knowing the variation in volume of water ressurc , we can pressures which fultil condition ( 7 ) .
variation in volume is presented in Table , where it bas been assunnod that the film of * Liverpool , 1912-13 .
The author wishes to acknowledge here his to Prof. F. G. Donnan , .S .
, for his encouragement and advice iu the execution of these apparently profitless experiments .
' Z. .
Anorg .
Chem vol. 79 , p. 202 ( 1912 ) .
J. RUSS .
Phys. Chem. Soc vol. 47 , p. 805 1915 ) .
S J. Amer .
Chem. Soc vol. 39 , p. 1848 1917 ) .
Dr. A. M. Williams .
Table chloroform did not freeze , and that its compressibility was closely the same as that of isobutyl alcohol .
* In Table are then given the pressures satisfying equation ( 7 ) .
Corresponding to these pressures , we may evaluate by means of equation ( 6 ) , and find when the two values from the two liquids coincide .
This evaluation is give in Table , where the values of " " \ldquo ; for chloroform and for water have been taken as and respectively , leading to cohesions at atmospheric pressure and C. of 2300 and 17,300 Table .
'Table From Table , we see that the required coincidence in the values only occurs when the chloroform and water are umder pressures of 11,000 kgrm .
and 12,000 kgrm .
per c respectively .
Now , chloroform in bulk freezes at C. under kgrm .
pressure and water at 9800 kgrm .
( Bridgman ) .
If solidification takes place in the adsorption layer , the effect would be a diminution of the volume of the chloroform of .
per amme , which would push the oorresponding pressure for * In a private communication to the author , P. W. Bridgman states that the compressibility at was practically the same as that of isobutyl alcohol .
The author desires to acknowledge his indebtedness for this information .
Forces in Films .
water above 10,000 kgrm .
, that is , the order of magnitude of the compressive forces is not affected .
* Keeping , however , to our assumption of a liquid film , we see that the compression in the chloroform is from .
to 0 .
, or 0 .
in all , whence the specific volume of the charcoal is not 0.46 but , or .
The water observation naturally leads to the same result .
We also have at our disposal an estimate of the internal cohesion of the charcoal .
To satisfy equation ( 7 ) and equation ( 6 ) for the two liquids , to be , whence is 58,000 kgrm .
per cm.2 , an internal pressure three times that of water at ordinary temperatures and pressures .
PART III .
Having obtained an estimate of the compressive force in an adsorption layer it is of interest to examine some consequences of the existence of a force of this magnitude .
Lagergren assuming the force to be of the order of 10,000 atmospheres\mdash ; curiously enough the same estimate as that found in Part II above\mdash ; calculated the effect on the solubility of different saltf } in aqueous solution and correlated it with the positive or negative adsorption he found for them with kaolin and charcoal .
We will , however , confine our attention to the case of a finely divided substance in suspension in pure water , and examine the effect on the dissociation of the water ( assumed liquid ) in the adsorption layer .
The effect of pressure on a chemical reaction in solution has been investigated thermodynamically by who deduced the relation .
, ( 8 ) where is the constant , the pressure and , the volume change during the reaction .
The reaction here considered , ( 9 ) where the total volume change may be estimated from the volume in a reaction ) the type , ( 10 ) * Such solidification , if it exists , could be detected by dilatometric measurementa which would thus furnish an independent estimate of the pressure from the temperature determination .
We are not dealing with liquid in wide capillaries such as is found in some silica gels and lamp black , upon which observations of this nature have been made .
See Foot and Saxton , ' Journ. Amer .
Chem. Soc vol. 39 , p. 627 , etc. ( 1917 ) .
' Bihang till K. Svenska Vet .
Akad .
Handl vol. 24 , II , p. 4 ( 1898 ) .
'Thermodynamics , ' 1903 , equation ( 220 ) .
See also Williams , ' Trans. Faraday Soc. ' ( in the press ) .
VOL XCVIII.\mdash ; A. Dr. A. M. Williams .
that is , the neutralization of a strong base strong acid in dilute solution .
Ostwald* found the neutralisation of normal solutions of strong acids by , bases lcd to an increase in volume of spproximately 20 .
By far the part of this increase is due to the reaction in equation ( 9 ) .
By apolating to infinite dilution the molar volumes of a few acids , bases , and salts yiven in Landolt-Bornstein the author found that the of volume involved lay betwee1l 18 and 22 , in agreement with O , stwald 's direct determination .
We may therefore take 20 .
as the value of in equation ( 9 ) and calculate the value of the right-hand side .
We or when is expressed in atmospheres .
Integrating on the assumption that is appreciably constant we have approximately so that is 12,000 atmospheres we have whence the concentration of and OH ' is in the adsorption layer as against in the water outside .
We may expect as a result of this increased concentration of ions in ths adsorption layer that a diffusion potential will be set up of the same type as has been investigated by Nernst , who gives for the diffusion potential difference between two solutions of ionic conuentrations and respectively the well-known formula Assuming that and are equally affected by the compression this mnla becomes at C. for and OH ' .
volts , that is , the ) tion layer will have a potential volts lower than the surroumding fluid , and the chalcoal particle will thus appear to be negatively charged when iulmersed in pure water .
order of magnitude of this calculated potential difference rees with observations made on particles susl)ended in water .
Since graphite appears negatively charged , a ' J. Prakt .
Ch. ' ( 2 ) , vol. 18 , p. 353 1878 ) .
Burton , ' Physical Properties of ColloidaI Solutions , ' p. 125 .
Forces in Fitms .
2.33 sig is to be expected for charcoal particles .
We , therefore , see that the existence in the adsorption layer of compressive forces the magnitude given is sufficient to explain in sign and magnitude tho potential differences and apparent on particles suspended in fluids .
From the simple outlined above we should expect that with a cohesion larger than water would appear atively charged when immersed in it , while those with a smaller cohesion would appear positively charged .
The positive ion of water moves faster than the ative ion , and we should have the reverse order of apparent in a fluid giving rise ions where the negative ion moves faster than the positive ion .
Confining our attention to pure water , we see that , in order to rise to an apparent positive change , the adsorption film must be not compressed , but distended .
Even allowing an extremely small internal cohesion for any substance in suspension , it seems improbable that the magnitude of the distensive forces can be as reat a those of the cohesive forces , and hence we would expect any observed positive potential differences to be less in magnitude than negative P.Ds .
( noring " " dilution\ldquo ; of the water ) .
This is , however , not the case*and we therefore must look some further source of P.D. Again , chloroform and various oil have been repol.ted as negative changes , the cohesiollS of chloroform and some oils are certainly less than the of water .
Since the concentrations of hydrogen and bydroxyl ions necessary to give rise to the observed P.D. are extremely small , very shall concentrations indeed of an elecorolyte would superimpose other electrical diffusion effects and so alter the magnitude and even the sign of the P.D. arising from the cohesive forces in the adsorption layer .
Thus in the case of chloroform mentioned above any reaction in the adsorption layel ' giving rise to hydrochloric acid even to a very small extent would cause the chloroform particles to appear negativel ?
y , as is found , through the increased concentration of the hydrogen ions .
In the same way instead of a very small cohesion to ferric hydroxide sol , we might expect it to give rise to hydroxyl ions as well as some relatively .
immobile positive ions so that it appears positively charged .
We have now briefly the theory that the ori , of apparent charge in colloids and suspensions lies in a diffusion potential difference ansing from ions produced either by the action of cohesive forces on the adsorption layer or from ionisation direct or indirect of the dispersoid .
Tt * Burton , .
cit. , p. 135 .
Burton , .
cit. , p. 126 .
Compare also Duclaux , ' Jour .
Chim .
Phys vol. 6 , p. 29 ( 1907 ) .
Forces in Surface seems of interest to very briefly the effect of the presence of .
electrolytes in the dispersion medium .
In the theory outlined above the sig of the P.D. } attributed to the tendency to diffusion away from the adsorption layer of excess of either fast moving hydrogen or hydroxyl ions .
Thus with a ative colloid there is a reater concentration of .
in the adsorption layer than in the rest of the dispersion mediu1n .
Now , as is well known , Linder and Picton*found on precipitatin arsenious sulphide , a ative colloid , with barium chloride , that the supernatant liquid was acid .
It is obvious that preferential adsorption of the basic portion of the products of hydrolysis of a normal salt would leave outside the adsorption layer sufficient hydrogen ions to neutralise the effect of the hydrogen ions in the adsorption layer and so reduce or destroy the original protential difference with consequent precipitation of the colloid .
und III .
( 1 ) Attention is directed to the .
effects of ( i ) accessibility of surface , and ( ii ) adsorption , on the apparent specific volume of finely divided solids .
( 2 ) Observations are in agreement with the simple theory of these effects .
( 3 ) The true specific volume of a specimerl of charcoal which appeared to be in water and in oroform , was evaluated as .
per gramme .
( 4 ) The attractive pressure in the surface film on the charcoal was calculated to be of the order of 10,000 atmospheres , while the internal pressure of the charcoal itself was estimated as of the order of 50,000 atmospheres .
( 5 ) It is shown that such compressive forces may give rise in the adsorption layer to a diffusion potential difference of the nitude observed in the case of suspensoids .
'Jour .
Chem. ' vol. 67 , p. 63 , and vol. 87 , p. 1906 1905 ) .
See Whitney and Ober , ' Joul .
Amer .
Chem. Soc vol. 23 , p. 842 ( 1901 ) .

