44 Prof. Duncan on the Nervous System of Actinia .
[ Dec. 18 , giving each spot a weight in proportion to its area , the variation of these positions in latitude and longitude , and their weights , might give a more satisfactory base for this comparison and for other deductions .
It will be obvious also that this investigation refers only to the visible hemisphere of the sun ; an approximation to the spot-distribution on the other hemisphere , however , will be frequently possible .
II .
" On the Nervous System of A Part I. By Professor P. Martin Duncan , M.B. Lond. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received October 9 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) After noticing the investigations of previous anatomists in the histology of the chromatophores , the work of Schneider and Rotteken on these supposed organs of special sense is examined and criticised .
Agreeing with Rotteken in his description , some further information is given respecting the nature of the bacillary layer and the minute anatomy of the elongated cells called " cones " by that author .
The position and nature of the pigment-cells is pointed out , and also the peculiarities of the tissues they environ .
It is shown that the large re-fractile cells , which , according to Rotteken , are situated between the bacilli and the cones , are not invariably in that position , but that bacilli , cones , and cells are often found separate .
They are parts of the ecto-thelium , and when conjoined enable light to affect the nervous system more readily than when they are separate .
Further information is given respecting the fusiform nerve-cells and small fibres noticed by Rotteken in the tissue beneath the cones ; and the discovery of united ganglion-like cells and a diffused plexiform arrangement of nerve is asserted . .
The probability of a continuous plexus round the Actinia and beneath each chromatophore is suggested , and the physiological action of the structures in relation to light is explained .
The minute structure of the muscular fibres and their attached fibrous tissue in the base of Actinia is noticed ; and the nervous system in that region is asserted to consist of a plexus beneath the endothelium , in which are fusiform cells and fibres like sympathetic nerve-fibrils .
Moreover , between the muscular layers there is a continuation of this plexus , whose ultimate fibrils pass obliquely over the muscular fibres , and either dip between or are lost on them .
The other parts of the Actinia are under the examination of the author , but their details are not sufficiently advanced for publication .
The nervous system , so far as it is examined , consists of isolated fusiform cells with small ends ( Rotteken ) , and of fusiform and spherical cells which communicate with each other and with a diffused plexus .
The plexus at the base is areolar ; and its ultimate fibres are swollen here and there , the whole being of a pale grey colour .

