]\gt ; the of By LORD AYLEIGH , O.M. , Received June ll , \mdash ; Read June 27 , 1907 .
) In the usual theory of gratings , upon the lines laid } by , the various parts of the primary wave-front , after oing influences , whether affecting the phase or the amplitude , are conceived to pursue their course as if they still formed the fronts of waves of area .
This supposition , justifiable as an approximation when the rating interval is , tends to fail altogether wheu the interval is reduced so as to be comparable with the wave-length .
A simple example will ) explain the nature of the failure .
Considel a grating of perfectly material whose alternate parts are flat and parallel and equally wide , but so disposed as to form a crroove of depth equal to a quarter , and upon this let be incident perpendicularly .
Upon Fresnel 's principles the centrall.egularly reflected FIG. 1 .
must vanish , being constituted by the combination of equal and opposite vibrations .
If the grating interval be enough , this conclusion is approximately correct and could be verified by experiment .
now suppose that the rating interval is reduced until it is less than the wavelength of the light .
The conclusion is now entirely wide of the marl Under the circumstances supposed there are no lateral spectra and the of the incident energy is necessarily thrown into the regular reflection , which is accordingly total instead of evanescent .
A closer consideratio shows that the recesses in this case act as resonators in a manner not covered by Fresnel 's ations , and illustrates the need of a theory strictly dynamical .
The present investigation , of which the interest is mainly optical , may be regarded as an extension of that given in ' Theory of Soun plane waves were supposed to be incident perpendicularly upon a ularly corrugated surface , whose form was limited a certain condition symmetry .
Moreover , attention was there principally fixed upon the case where the of the corrugations was long in comparison with that * Second edition , S ) .
VOL LXXIX.\mdash ; A. 2 Lord Rayleigh .
[ June 11 , of the waves themselves , so that in the optical application there would be a large number of spectra .
It is proposed now to dispense with these restrictions .
On the other hand , it will be supposed that the depth of the corrugations is small in comparison with the length ( ) of the waves .
The equation of the reflecting surface may be taken to be , where is a periodic function of , whose mean value is zero , and which is independent of .
By Fourier 's theorem we may write .
( 1 ) the wave-length of the corrugation being .
Formerly the terms were omitted and attention was concentrated upon the case where was alone sensible .
The omission of the terms makes the grating symmetrical , so that at perpendicular incidence the spectra on the two sides are similar .
It is known that this condition is often , and indeed advantageously , departed from in practice .
FIG. 2 .
The vibrations incident at obliquity , POZ , fig. 2 , are represented by ( 2 ) where , and is the velocity of propagation in the upper medium .
Here satisfies in all cases the same general differential equation , but its significance must depend upon the character of the waves .
In the application , to which for the present we may confine our attention , is the 1907 .
] On the Theory of velocity-potential .
In optics it is convenient to change the precise interpretation according to circumstances , as we shall see later .
The waves regularly reflected along OQ are represented by , ( 3 ) in which is ( possibly complex ) coefficient to be determined .
In all the expressions with which we have to deal the time occurs only in the factor , running through .
For brevity this factor may be omitted .
In like manner the waves regularly refracted along OB into the lower medium have the expression , ( 4 ) being the angle of refraction ; and , by the law of refraction , .
( 5 ) In addition to the incident and regularly reflected and refracted waves , we have to consider those corresponding to the various spectra .
For the reflected spectra of the nth order we have ( 5 ) where , by the elementary theory of these spectra , , or .
( 6 ) We shall choose the upper sign for and the lower for .
In virtue of ( 6 ) the complete expression for in the upper medium takes the form , ( 7 ) where has in succession the values 1 , 2 , 3 , etc. Similarly , in the lower medium the spectra of the order are represented by , ( 8 ) where .
( 9 ) Accordingly , for the complete expression of , we have with use of , .
( 10 ) must now introduce boundary con ditions to be satisfied at the transition between the two media when .
It may be convenient to commence with a very simple case determined by the condition that The.whole of the incident energy is then thrown back , and is distributed between the regularly reflected waves and the various reflected spectra .
40.2 Lord Rayleigh .
[ Juns 11 , We proceed by approximation depending on the smallness of .
Expanding the exponentials on the right side of ( 7 ) , we get .
( 11 ) In this equation the value of is to be substituted from ( 1 ) , and then in accordance with Fourier 's theorem the coefficients of the various exponential terms , such as , are to be separately equated to zero .
As the first approximation , we get from the constant term ( independent of , ( 12 ) and from the terms in .
( 13 ) Thus , as was to be expected , are of the first order in , and if we stop at the second order inclusive , ( 11 ) may be written ( 14 ) For the second approximation to we get .
( 15 ) By means of ( 13 ) and ( 15 ) we may verify the principle that the energies of the incident , and of all the reflected vibrations taken together , are equal .
The energy corresponding to unit of wave-front of the incident waves may be supposed to be unity , and for the other waves etc. But what we have to consider are not equal areas of wave-front , but areas to the me extent of reflecting surface , i.e. , areas of wave-front proportional to , etc. Hence , , ( 16 ) with which the special approximate values already given are in harmony .
In the formation of ( 16 ) only real values of are to be included .
If , no real values exist , i.e. , there are no lateral spectra .
The regular reflection is then total , and this without limitation upon the magnitude of the .
The question is further considered in 'Theory of Sound , ' S In pursuing a second approximation for the coefficients of the lateral spectra , we will suppose for the sake of brevity that the terms in ( 1 ) are omitted .
From the term involving in ( 14 ) , we get with use of ( 13 ) , 1907 .
] On the \ldquo ; , ( 17 ) in which the first ( descending ) series is to terminate when the suffix in is equal to unity .
The value of may be derived from ( 17 ) by interchange of and in remaining unchanged .
As a particular case of ( 17 ) , we have , for the spectra of the first order , .
( 18 ) , ( 19 ) the descending series in ( 17 ) disappearing altogether .
If the incidence is normal , , and thus become identical and assume specially simple forms .
Referling to ( 7 ) , see that in this case , ( 20 ) in which , to the second order , .
( 21 ) .
( 22 ) If we suppose that in ( 1 ) only and are sensible , we have , ( 24 ) , ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) while , etc. , vanish to the second order of small quantities inclusive .
here is no especial difficulty in carrying the approximations further .
As Lord Rayleigh .
[ June 11 , an example , we may suppose that is alone sensible in ( 1 ) , so that we may write , ( 27 ) and also that the incidence is perpendicular .
For brevity we will denote or by .
The boundary condition becomes by ( 7 ) in this case , , ( 28 ) in which ( kc ) ( kc ) ( kc ) ( 29 ) ( ) ( ) .
( 30 ) with similar expressions for , etc. By Fourier 's theorem the terms independent of , in , etc. , must vanish separately .
The gives ( 31 ) The term in gives The term in gives .
( 33 ) The term in gives .
( 34 ) We see from these that is of the second order in , that is of the first order , of the second order , of the third order , and so on .
Expanding the Bessel 's functions , we find , to the second order inclusive , as in ( 23 ) , ( 24 ) , ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) , , etc. , vanishing .
To the third order inclusive ( 34 ) now gives .
( 36 ) From ( 33 ) to the same order }havs still for and from ( 32 ) .
( 38 ) 1907 .
] On the Dynamical Theory of These are complete to the third order of inclusive .
To this order , etc. , vanish .
So far as the third order of inclusive , remains as in ; but it is worth while here to retain the terms of the fourth order .
We find from ( 31)\mdash ; .
( 39 ) It is to be noted that are not independent .
By ( 6 !
, with , ( 40 ) so that and By use of ( 41 ) it may be verified to the fourth order that when are real , so that the spectra of the second order are actually formed , expressing the conservation of vibratory energy .
When is real , but not , we may write , where is positive .
In this case ; and in virtue of ( 41 ) to the fourth order , Again , if are both imaginary , equal , say , , we have from ( 39 ) with separation of real and imaginary parts , terms , so that , to the fourth order , , ( 44 ) expressing thaC the regular reflection is now total .
In the acoustical interpretation for a gaseous medium represents the velocity-potential , and the boundary condition is that of constant pressure .
In the electrical and optical interpretation the waves are incident from air , or other dielectric medium , upon a perfectly conducting and , therefore , perfectly reflecting corrugated substance .
Here represents the electromotive intensity parallel to , that is parallel to the lines of the rating , the boundary condition being the evanescence of Q. 1 , 406 Lord Rayleigh .
[ June ] We now pass on to the boundary condition next in order of simplicity , ordains that , where is drawn normally at the surface of separation .
Since the surfaces , constant , are to be perpendicular , the condition expressed in rectangular co-ordinates is , ( 45 ) being given by 7 ) and by ( 1 ) .
For the purposes of the first approximation , we require in only the part independent of the 's and , since .
is already of the first order Thus at the surface Also , correct to the first order , - Thus ( 45 ) gives .
( 46 ) From the term independent ' we see that , as was to be expected , .
( 47 ) Also , ( 48 ) .
( 49 ) When in ( 48 ) , ( 49 ) , we may put .
These equations constitute the complete solution to a first approximation .
For the second approximation we must retain the terms of the first order in .
Thus from ( 5 ) , , ( 50 ) since to the first ordel inclusive .
Also -ik .
( 51 ) On the of ratings .
Thus by ( 45 ) the mdary condition is In the small terms we may substitute for their approximate valnes from ( 48 ) , ( 49 ) .
In ( 52 ) the coefficients of the various terms in must vanish sepalately .
In pursuing the approximation we will write for breyity where and , .
( 54 ) The term independent gives to the secolld approximation .
Thus .
( 5o- ) In , as follows from ( 6 ) , and Hence with introduction of the values of from ( 48 ) , ( 49 ) , , ( 56 ) as also be inferred from ( 48 ) , ( 49 ) alone , with the aid of the energy equation\mdash ; From the ternl in in ( 52 ) we get .
( 58 ) Lord Rayleigh .
[ June : In ( 58 ) is to assume the values 1 , 2 , 3 , etc. , the descending series terminating when The corresponding equation for may } ) derived from ( 58 ) by changing the sign of , with the understanding that ; .
( 59 ) If the incidence be perpendicular , so that , and if which requires that , the values of and become identical .
If , the descending series in ( 58 ) make no contribution .
We have ( 60 ) We will now introduce the simplifying suppositions that making , and also that only and are sensible , so that .
We will also , as before , denote or by Accordingly ( 60 ) gives , with use of ( 6 ) , ( 48 ) , ( 49 ) , In like manner , we get from ( 08 ) , ( 62 ) , ( 63 ) after which , etc. , vanish to this order of approximation .
In any of these equations we may replace by its value from ( 6 ) , that is The boundary condition of this case , i.e. , , is realised acoustically when aerial waves are incident upon an inmlovable corrugated surface .
In the interpretation for electrical and luminous waves , the magnetic induction ( b ) paralled to , so that the electric vector is perpendicular to the lines of the grating , the boundary condition at the surface of a perfect reflector being We have thus obtained the solutions for the two principal cases of the incidence of polarised light upon a perfect corrugated reflector .
In comparing 1907 .
] On the Theory of the results for the first order of approximation as iven in ( 13 ) for the first case and in ( 48 ) , ( 49 ) for the second , we are at once struck with the fact that in the second case , though not in the first , the intensity of a spectrum may become infinite through the evanescence of or , which occurs when the spectrum is just disappearing from the field of view .
But the effect is not limited to the particular spectrum which is on the point of disappearing .
Thus in ( 61 ) , giving the spectrum of the first order , becomes infinite as the spectrum of the second order disappears .
Regarded from a mathematical point of view , the method of approximation breaks down .
The problem has no definite solution , so long as we maintain the suppositions of perfect reflection , of an infinite train of simple waves , and of a grating infinitely extended in the direction perpendicular to its ruling .
But under the conditions of experiment , we may at least infer the probability of abnormalities in the brightness of any spectrum at the moment when one of higher order is just disappearing , abnormalities limited , however , to the case where the electric displacement is perpendicular to the ruling .
* It may be remarked that when the incident ight is unpolarised , the spectrum about to disappear is polarised in a plane parallel to the ruling .
In both the cases of boundary conditions hitherto treated , the circumstances are especially simple in that the aggregate reflection is perfect , the whole of the incident energy being returned into the upper medium .
We now pass on to more complicated conditions , which we may interpret as those of two gaseous media of densities and .
Equality of pressures at the interface requires that and we have also to satisfy the continuity of normal velocity expressed by or , as in ( 45 ) , and being given by ( 7 ) , ( 10 ) .
We must content ourselves with a solution to the first approximation , at least for general incidence .
From ( 65 ) , * See a Vote on the Remarkable of Diffraction Spectra described by Professor Wood recently communicated to the ' Philosophical Magazine , ' vol. 14 , p. 60 , 1907 .
Lord Rayleigh .
Distinguishing the various components in as in ( 53 ) , we find ( 69 ) , ( 70 ) ( 71 ) In forming the second boundary condition ( 67 ) we require in the part independent of Also Thus ( 67 ) takes the form .
( 72 ) From the part independent we get , ( 73 ) and from the parts in , ( 74 ) and a similar equation involving From ( 69 ) , ( 73 ) we find .
( 75 ) 1907 .
] On the of Again , eliminating between ( 70 ) , ) , get , with use of ( 5 ) , denoting the denominators in ( 75 ) .
The equations ( 75 ) for the waves regularly reflected and those given ( after Green ) in ' Theory of Sound , ' S .
They are to cover the case where the two gaseous media have different constants of compressibility as well as of density .
The elocities of wave propagation are connected with these quantities by the relation , see , : : .
( 77 ) In ideal gases the compressibilities are the same , so thaf In this case ( 75 ) gives , ( 79 ) .
Fresnel 's expression for the reflection of polarised in a plane ) dicular to that of incidence .
In accordance with Brewster 's law the reflection vanishes at the angle of incidence whose tangent is In like mannel the introduction of ( 78 ) into ( 76 ) , after reduction , .
( S0 ) If the wave-length of the corrugations be very identical with , and thus vanishes when , that is at same ( Brewsterian ) angle of incidence for which , as was to be expected .
In general , when .
( 81 ) If we suppose that .
is somewhat small , we may obtain a second approximation to the value of .
Thus , setting in the small ternls , we get Lord Rayleigh .
[ June 11 , Here so that .
( 82 ) This determines the angle of incidence at which to a second approximation in the reflected vibration vanishes in the nth spectrum .
Since according to ( 82 ) with positive , and , it seemed not impossible that ( 82 ) might be equivalent to , forming a kind of extension of Brewster 's law .
It appears , however , from ( 6 ) that , ( 83 ) so that the suggested law is not observed , although the departure from it would be somewhat small in the case of moderately refractive media .
For the other spectrum of the nth order we have only to change the sign of in , ( 83 ) .
When is not small , we must revert to the original equation ( 81 ) .
Even this , it must be remembered , depends upon a first approximation , including only the first powers of the Another special case of interest occurs when , so that in the acoustical application the difference between the two media is one of compressibility only .
The introduction of this condition into ( 75 ) gives , ( 84 ) the other Fresnel 's expression .
Again , from ( 76 ) , whence ( 85 ) In this case the vibration in the nth spectrum does not vanish at any of incidence .
We have now to consider the application of our solutions to electromagnetic vibrations , such as constitute light , the polarisation being in one or principal plane .
In the usual electrical notation , being the specific inductive capacities , and the magnetic permeabilities ; while in the acoustical problem , 1907 .
] On the Dynamical Theory of Gratings .
The boundary conditions are also of the same general form .
For instance , the acoustical conditions may be written ; and in the upper medium where is constant it makes no difference whether we deal with or .
Thus if in the case of we identify with , the component of netic force parallel to ?
/ , the conditions to be satisfied at the surface are the continuity of and of Comparing with the acoustical conditions , we see that replaces , and consequently ( by value of ) replaces .
Hence , in the general solution , ( 76 ) , it is only necessary to write in place of .
For optical purposes we may usually treat as constant .
This corresponds to the special supposition ( 78 ) , so that ( 79 ) , ( 80 ) apply to light for which the netic force is parallel to the lines of the grating , or the electric force perpendicular to the lines , i.e. , in the plane of incidence .
From ( 76 ) we may fall back upon ( 48 ) by making , in such a way that , and therefore , remains finite .
The other optical application depends upon identifying with , the electromotive intensity parallel to ?
/ , i.e. , parallel to the lines of the rating .
The conditions at the surface are now the continuity of and of Equations ( 75 ) , ( 76 ) become applicable if we replace by .
If be invariable , this is the special case of ( 84 ) , ( 85 ) ; so that these equations are applicable to light when the electric vibration is parallel to the lines of the grating , or perpendicular to the plane of incidence .
The associated Fresnel 's expression ( 79 ) suffices in each case to remind us of the optical circumstances .
In order to pass back from ( 76 ) to ( 13 ) , we are to suppose ( or ) , so that remains finite .
Thus , and the only terms to be retained in ( 76 ) are those which include the factor The polarisation of the spectra eflected from glass gratings was noticed by raunhofer : Sehr merkwurdig ist es , dass unter einem gewissen ein Theil eines durch Reflexion entstandenen Spectrums aus vollstandig polarisirter Lichte besteht .
Dieser Einfallswinkel ist fur die verschiedenen Spectra sehr verschieden , und selbst noch sehr merklich fur die verschiedenen arben ein und desselben Spectrums .
Mit dem Glasgitter ist polarisirt : , , der grune Theil dieses ersten * See ' Phil. Mag vol. 1 p. 81 , 1881 ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 520 .
Lord Rayleigh .
Spectrums , wean ist ; , oder der grune Theil in dem zweiten auf derselben Seite der Axe enden Spectrum , wenn betragt ; endlich , oder der grune Theil des ersten auf der esetzten Seite der Axe liegenden Spectrums , wenn .
Wenn polarisirt ist , sind es die ubrigen Farben dieses Spectl.ums noch In Fraunhofer 's notation is the angle of incidence , here denoted by and in the same measure ( the Paris inch ) as that employed for , so that .
If we suppose that the refractive index of the glass was , we get On the other hand : from ( 82 ) we get for , for , and , a fair agreement between the two values of , except in the case of .
It appears , howevel , that the of upon which ( 82 ) is founded is too rough a procedure .
By trial and error I calculate from ( 81 ) for ; for ; for These agree perhaps as closely as could be expected with the observed values , considering that they are deduced from a theory which neglects the square of the depth of the ruling .
The ordinary polarising angle for this index It would be of interest to extend Fraunhofer 's observations ; but the work should be in the hands of one who is in a position to rule gratings himself .
On old and deteriorated surfaces polarisation phenomena are liable irregularities .
In the hope of throwing upon the remarkable observation of Professor Wood , that a frilled collodion surface shows an enhanced reflection , I have pursued the calculation of the regularly reflected light to the second order in , the depth of the groove , limiting myself , however , to the case of perpendicular incidence and to the supposition that and its- equal * Gilbert 's 'Ann . .
Physik , ' vol. 74 , p. 337 ( 1823 ) ; 'Colle ted Writings , ' Munich , 1888 , p. 134 .
Physical Optics , ' p. 145 .
1907 .
] On iloe Theory of are alone sensible .
Although the results are not I had hoped , it may be worth while to record the principal steps .
Retaining only the terms independent of , we get from the first condition ( 65 ) , ( 86 ) and from the second condition ( b7 ) , .
( 87 ) Eliminating , and remembering that we get , ( 88 ) in which we are to substitute the values of from ( 70 ) , ( 74 ) .
From this point it is , perhaps , more convenient to take the principal suppositions separately .
Let , as in ( 78 ) , : ; we have ' and accordingly , from ( 70 ) , ( 74 ) , ; so that Hence , from ( 88 ) , .
( 89 ) Again , when and from ( 70 ) , ( 74 ) , .
( 90 ) The introduction of these into ( 88 ) gives .
( 91 ) VOL. LXXJX.\mdash ; A. 416 On the Theory of Gratings .
The question is whether the numerical value of is increased or diminished by the term in .
In ( 89 ) it is easy to recognise that in the standard case of greater than ( air to glass in optics ) the term in is positive .
and being supposed real .
The effect of the second term is thus to bring the right-hand member nearer to unity than it would otherwise be , and thus to the reflection .
Again , in ( 91 ) , the second term is ative , even when , as we may see by introducing the appropriate value of , viz. , .
The effect is therefore to subtract something from , which is greater than unity , and thus again to diminish the reflection .
If in ( 89 ) , ( 91 ) we neglect the terms in , which will be specially small when the two media do not differ much , the formulae become independent of the angles and .
In both cases the effect is the same as if the refractive index , supposed greater than unity , were diminished in the ratio 1-2 .
It appears then that the present investigation gives no hint of the enhanced reflection observed in certain cases by Professor Wood .

