1885 .
] Observations on the Chromatology 85 In the same way , the 9th partial was proved to exist , though the beat was still faint .
The beats for the 10th partial ( flattening e ' " ) were better .
On sharpening f " , the beats of the 11th partial were just sensible .
They lasted such an extremely short time that they were recognised with difficulty .
It therefore did not seem worth while to try further .
These experiments conclusively proved the existence of the 5th , 6th , 7th , 8th , 9th , 10th , and 11th partials on a pianoforte string struck with a pianoforte hammer at one-eighth of its length , and that the 7th was comparatively powerful , while the 8th and 9th , though faint , were distinct .
The node of the 7th was 0*8 inch from the striking place , and that of the 9th was 0'6 inch , so that the 9th was more affected than the 7th , but the 10th was 1*1 inch from the striking place , and hence probably was less affected than the 9th .
The curious point is that the 8th partial was most decidedly not .destroyed .
These experiments were all witnessed by Mr. A. J. Ellis , and one of Messrs. Broadwood 's principal tuners , Mr. Pryer , who altered the pitch of the strings as required .
January 22 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Observations on the Chromatology of Actiniae .
" By C. A. MacMunn , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received January 8 , 1885 .
( Abstract ) .
In this paper I have given the results of an examination of the following Actiniae , mainly with regard to the spectroscopy of their colouring matters , viz. , Actinia mes , Bunodes cornis , Bunodes ballii , Sagartia bellis , Sagartia , Sagartia parasitica , Sagartia viduaia , Sagartia , and Anthea cereus .
The previous work of Moseley , Krukenberg , Greddes , the Hertwigs , Brandt , and Heider , is first referred to .
Observations on the Chromatology of Actiniae .
[ Jan. 22 , U The presence of a colouring matter in Actinia mesembryanthemum , | which can be changed into alkaline haematin , hsemochromogen , and { acid and alkaline haematoporphyrin is proved by appropriate tests , I hence this Actinia contains a pigment nearly related to haemoglobin .
The same colouring matter has been found in Bunodes , '\#166 ; i| Sagartia dianthus ( in small amount ) , Sagartia viduata ( traces ) , and a 1 closely connected pigment in Sagartia troglodytes , both in ectoderm 1 and endoderm .
Another colouring matter is found which is special to this species in Sagartia parasitica ; it is capable of existing in the oxidised and 1 reduced state , and is found in the ectoderm , while in the interior of the animal a pigment changeable into haemochromogen was detected ; J the spectroscopic characters of the former are described in detail .
In the mesoderm and elsewhere in Actinia and in Bunodes crassicornis , a green pigment occurs which is undistinguish- 1 able from biliverdin .
It gives the same play of colours ( in solution ) m with nitric acid , and the same changes of spectra which accompany ?
the colour changes with that reagent in the case of biliverdin from | the bile of vertebrates .
The presence of a chlorophyll-like spectrum 3 has been detected in the tentacles of Bunodes ballii and Sagartia , , as well as in Anthea cereus ( in which last it had been previously 1 detected by former observers ) , and this spectrum has been found to l belong to the " yellow cells " which are found abundantly in the j tentacles and elsewhere in these species .
The various solutions of j this colouring matter give the same spectra in all three .
Professor ; Lankester 's and Mr. Sorby 's statement that this spectrum is similar to chlorofucin has been verified by a comparison with a solution of J chlorofucin from Fucus serratus .
This colouring matter has been shown\#151 ; contrary to the opinion expressed by Krukenberg\#151 ; to be quite different from enterochlorophyll , also from plant chlorophyll , and other animal chlorophylls .
In every case the " yellow cells " are proved to have a cellulose wall , and to contain starch .
There are various new facts ascertained which cannot be explained by means of a short abstract .
The conclusions arrived at may in part be summed up as follows ( 1 .
) Actinia mesembryanthemum contains a colouring matter which can be changed into haemochromogen and haematoporphyrin , this is present in the other species mentioned above , and from its characters it is provisionally named Actiniohcematin .
( 2 .
) It is not actiniochrome ( a pigment found by Professor Moseley in the tentacles of Bunodes crassicornis ' ) , as its band occurs nearer the violet than that of actiniochrome .
Moreover , both actiniochrome and actiniohaematin can be extracted with glycerin , in which the latter is convertible into haemochromogen , but the former remains unchanged .
1885.1 Prof. E , A. Schafer .
Th of the Chyle .
Actiniochrome is generally confined to the tentacles , and is not respiratory , actiniohaematin occurs in the ectoderm and endoderm , and is respiratory .
( 3 .
) A special colouring matter is found in Sagartia , different from either of the above , and this too exists in different states of oxidation .
It is not apparently identical with that obtained by Heider from Cerianthus membranaceus .
( 4 .
) In the mesoderm and elsewhere in Actinia and other species , a green pigment occurs which alone and in solution gives all the reactions of biliverdin .
( 5 .
) Anthea cereus , Bunodes ballii , and Sagartia bellis , yield to solvents a colouring matter resembling chlorofucin , and all the colouring matter , which in them shows this spectrum , is derived from the " yellow cells , " which are abundantly present in their tentacles and elsewhere .
It is not identical with any animal or plant chlorophyll , as is proved by adding reagents to its alcoholic solution .
( 6 .
) When " yellow cells " are present , there appears to be a suppression of those colouring matters which in other species are of respiratory use .
All readings are reduced to wave-lengths , and the spectra described illustrated by means of sixty-five maps of spectra .
The " yellow cells " are also drawn alone and stained with iodine in iodide of potassium , and with Schultze 's fluid .
II .
" On the Origin of the Proteids of the Chyle and the Transference of Food Materials from the Intestine into the Lacteals .
" By E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
Received January 12 , 1885 .
In consequence of the discovery that in many of the lower Metazoa the ingestion of food particles is the result of an amoeboid activity of individual cells of the organism , and that digestion and assimilation may also occur within the protoplasm of cells thus endowed with amoeboid activity , attention has of late been directed to the part which such cells may play in promoting absorption from the alimentary canal of Vertebrates .
It is well known that lymph-cells occur in large numbers in the mucous membrane of the intestine , which is everywhere beset with them ; besides which they form the nodular masses of the solitary and agminated glands .
It is also known that they are found extend-ing between the columnar epithelium-cells which line the intestine , sometimes in considerable number .
Since this is the case , and since ,

