55 .
a sufficient quantity of these ingredients in a state to be immediately taken up ; the second , that of waiting until the action of decomposing agents disengages a fresh portion of those ingredients from the soil ( as by letting the land remain fallow ) ; and the third , that of accelerating this decomposition by mechanical and chemical means .
Thirdly , that it is probable that in most districts a sufficient supply of phosphoric acid and of alkali for the purpose of agriculture lies locked up within the bowels of the earth , which might be set at liberty and rendered available by the application of the artificial means above alluded to .
Fourthly , that the aim of nature seems to be to bring into this soluble , and therefore available condition , these inorganic substances by animal and vegetable decomposition , and therefore that we are counteractingher beneficial efforts when we waste the products of this decomposition by a want of due care in the preservation of the various excreinentitious matters at our disposal .
Fifthly , that although we cannot deny that plants possess the power of substituting certain mineral ingredients for others , yet that the limits of this faculty are still imperfectly known , and the degree in which their healthy condition is affected by the change is still a matter for further investigation .
Lastly , that the composition of various plants , as given in this paper , differs so widely from that reported by Sprengel and others , that we are supplied with an additional argument in favour of the importance of having the subject of ash-analysis taken up by a public body , such as the Royal Agricultural Society of England , possessed of competent means and facilities for deciding between the conflicting authorities , and supplying us with a more secure basis for future calculations .
PROCEEDINGS OF T1HE ROYAL SOCIETY .
1845 .
No. 61 .
May 22 , 1845 .
The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
" Memoir on the Rotation of Crops , and on the Quantity of Inorganic Matters abstracted from the Soil by various plants under different circumstances .
" By Charles G. B. Daubeny , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Rural Economy , &amp;c. in the University of Oxford .
The author was first led to undertake the researches of which an account is given in the present memoir , by the expectation of verifying the theory of De Candolle , in which the deterioration experienced by most crops on their repetition was attributed to the deleterious influence of their root-excretions .
For this purpose he set apart , ten years ago , a number of plots of ground in the Botanic Garden at Oxford , uniform as to quality and richness , one-half of which was planted each year , up to the present time , with the same species of crop , and the other half with the same kinds , succeeding each other in such a manner that no one plot should receive the same crop twice during the time of the continuance of the experiments , or at least not within a short period of one another .
The difference in the produce obtained in the two crops , under these circumstances , would , the author conceived , represent the degree of influence ascribable to the root-excretions .
The results obtained during the first few years from these experiments , as well as from the researches which had , in the mean time , been communicated to the world by M. Braconnot and others on the same subject , led , him in a great measure to abandon this theory , and to seek for some other mdde of explaining the falling-off of crops on repetition .
In order to clear up the matter , he determined to ascertain , for a series of years , not only the amount of crop which would be obtained from each of the plants tried under these two systems , but also the quantity of inorganic matters extracted in each case from the soil , and the chemical constitution of the latter , which had furnished these ingredients .
The chemical examination of the crops , however , on account of the labour it involved , was confined to six out of the number of the plants cultivated ; and of these , three samples were analysed ; the first being the permanent one , viz. that cultivated for nine or ten successive years in the same plot of ground ; the second , the shifting one , obtained from a plot which had borne different crops in the preceding years ; and the third , the standard , derived from a sample of average quality , grown under natural circumstances , either in the Botanic Garden itself , or in the neighbourhood of Oxford .
These analyses were performed by Mr. Way formerly assistant to Professor Graham , of University College , London , and now attached to the Agricultural College near Cirencester .
The examination of the soils was carried on in two ways ; the first , with the view of estimating the entire amount of their available ingredients ; and the second , with that of ascertaining the quantity in a state to be taken up at once by plants , the available ingredients being those which are soluble in muriatic acid ; the active ones , those which are taken up by water impregnated with carbonic acid gas .
This portion of the investigation was conducted in part by the author , and in part by Mr. Way , and has reference to three subjects ; first , to the amount of produce obtained from the deficient crops ; secondly , to their chemical constitutionl ; and thirdly , to the nature of the soil in which the crops were severally grown .
The plants experimented upon were spurge , potatoes , barley , turnips , hemp , flax , beans , tobacco , poppies , buckwheat , clover , oats , beet , mint , endive , and parsley .
The only crop which seemed to show the influence of root-excretions was Euphorbia Lathyris , which would not grow in the same ground three years successively , although the soil was found afterwards fitted for rearing several other species of plants .
In the remaining cases , there was in general a marked ( lifference between the permanent and the shifting crop , to the disadvantage of the former ; and where exceptions occurred to this rule , they seemed capable of being accounted for by accidental causes .
The amount of each year 's crop is given in a tabular form , and their differences illustrated by diagrams showing the relation between the two crops of each vegetable .
The second part of the memoir commences with an account of the method of analysis pursued by the author tor determining the nature and proportions of the ingredients present in the ashes of the crops submitted to examination .
This method was , in general , similar to that recommended by Will and Fresenius in their paper published in the 'Philosophical Magazine , ' No. 169 ; but in determining the amount of phosphoric acid , the following mode was adopted in preference to the one therein given .
As the phosphoric acid would seize upon the iron in preference to any other base , the amount of peroxide of iron present in the ash was first determined by precipitating it from a muriatic solution by means of acetate of ammonia .
The weight of the precipitate gives that of phosphate of iron , from which that of the peroxide of iron may be readily calculated .
This being ascertained , he proceeds to determine the phosphoric acid by operating on afresh portion of the solution of the ash , into which a certain known weight of iron dissolved in muriatic acid is introduced , in quantity more than sufficient to unite with the whole of the phosphoric acid present .
This done , acetate of ammonia is added and the mixture boiled , when all the peroxide of iron , whether combined with phosphoric acid or not , is thrown down .
From the weight of the precipitate , that of the phosphoric acid present may be calculated , as both the amount of peroxide of iron present in the ash , and that which was added sub .
sequently , are known .
A report is then given of the analysis of the ashes of barley , of the tubers of potatoes , of the bulbs of turnips , of hemp , of flax , and of beans , all cultivated in the Botanic Garden ; and from the data thus obtained , the quantity of inorganic matters abstracted from the soil in ten years by the above crops is deduced ; and a table is given showing the relation between the permanent and shifting crops , with respect to their produce , the amount of inorganic matters , that of alkali , and that of phosphates , contained in them .
In the third part of his paper , the author considers the chemical composition of the soil in which the above-mentioned crops were grown .
He states , in the first place , the method he adopted for determining the amount of phosphoric acid present in the soil .
An analysis is then given of the soil taken from a portion of the garden contiguous to that in which the experiments were carried on , and from one of the plots of the garden itself ; and from these data a calculation is made , that the ground at present contains enough phosphoric acid for nineteen crops of barley of the same amount as the average of those of the permanent crops , and of the same quality as that obtained in 1844 .
It was also found , that there was a supply of potass sufficient for fifteen crops of barley ; of soda , for forty-five ; and of magnesia , for thirty-four .
When , however , we examine how much of these ingredients is taken up by water containing carbonic acid , the proportion of ' each is found to be much smaller ; and a striking difference exists , in this respect , between the soil which had been recently manured and that which had been drawn upon by a succession of crops .
In the first case , the quantity of alkaline sulphate obtained in the pound was 3*4 grs. ; in the latter it varied from 0'7 to 0'07 ; and of phosphate , the quantity in the former was about 0'3 , whilst in the latter it varied from 01 8 to 0'05 .
From these facts the author concludes , first , that the falling-off of a crop after repetition depends , in some degree , on the less ready supply of certain of the inorganic ingredients which it requires for its constitution ; but that two crops equally well supplied by the soil with these ingredients may take up different quantities of them , according as their own development is more or less favoured by the presence of organic matter in the soil in a state of decomposition .
Secondly , that it is very possible that a field may beun productive , although possessing abundance of all the ingredients required by the crop , owing to their not being in a sufficiently soluble form , and therefore not directly available for the purposes of vegetation : so that , in such a case , the agriculturist has his choice of three methods ; the first , that of impartingto the soil , by the aid of manure ,

