Experiments on the solar , and on the terrestrial Rays that occasion Heat ; with a comparative View of the Laws to which Light and Heat , or rather the Rays which occasion them , are subject , in order to determine whether they are the same , or different .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Part II .
Read November 6 , 1800 .
[ Phil , Trans. 1800 , p. 437 .
] In the first part of this paper * the Doctor had proposed the seven following points which he meant to elucidate in this inquiry .
1 .
That heat , both solar and terrestrial , is a sensation occasioned by rays emanating from candent substances .
2 .
That these rays are subject to the laws of reflection .
3 .
That they are refrangible .
4 .
That they are of different refrangibility .
5 .
That they are liable to be detained in their passages through other bodies .
6 .
That they are also liable to be scattered on rough surfaces .
And lastly , he proposed to ascertain whether in a certain degree of energy these rays may not have or acquire a power of illuminating objects .
The three former points have been considered in the first , and the four last are the subjects of the present part of the paper .
Concerning the different refrangibility of the rays of heat , being the subject of the fourth article , we find that in refracting the rays of the sun by a prism , two distinct spectra may be said to be produced , the one of light , and the other of heat , the latter being distinctly observable by means of thermometers .
These two spectra the Doctor has found means to represent by a figure , in which the length of the luminous or coloured spectrum , being represented by a line on which are raised ordinates proportionate to the quantity of illumination of each coloured ray , the curve joining these ordinates , together with this base line , enclose an area which may be said to represent the extent and intensity of the coloured rays .
Adopting now another base line of the length of the range of the refracted rays of heat , one extremity of which is found to coincide with the termination of the coloured spectrum at the outward edge of the violet ray , and the other to project beyond the opposite termination at the red ray , which makes this line longer than the other , in the proportion of nearly 54 to 3 .
Ordinates are here in like manner applied according to the different degrees of intensity of heat indicated by accurate thermometers , and thus another area is produced , which represents the spectrum of heat both as to extent and intensity .
On inspecting these figures , parts of which coincide , but other parts considerably deviate from each other , we find that the coloured and the heating rays differ widely , both in their mean refrangibility and .
e Page 2-0 , in the situations of their maxima .
And we also collect that the projecting part of the heating rays , being on the side of the red or least refrangible coloured ray , the aggregate of the former may be said to be less refrangible than that of the latter .
The Doctor now goes on to prove by experiments , that the sines of refraction of the heat-making rays are in a constant ratio to their sines of incidence , and points out the results of a correction of the different refrangibility of heat , by contrary refractions in different media .
: , Experiments are also described which show that the focus produced by a lens is in fact twofold , that which is produced by the rays of heat being in the same axis , but at some distance further from the lens than the luminous focus , -a property that might have been inferred , a priori , from the less refrangibility of the heat-making rays .
In the fifth article , which treats of the transmission of heat-making rays through diaphanous bodies , besides the accurate description of the various apparatus which it was necessary to contrive for the purpose , and which can only be clearly understood by inspecting the figures added to the paper , we find the results of 170 experiments distinguished under the six following sections .
1 .
On the transmission of solar heat through colourless substances ; through glasses of the different prismatic colours ; through liquids , such as well and seawater , and different spirits ; and through scattering substances , such as ground glasses , paper , linen , silk , &amp;c. 2 .
On the transmission of the heat of terrestrial flame through various substances .
3 .
On the transmission of the solar rays , which are of an equal refrangibility with the red prismatic rays .
4 .
On the transmission of fire-heat through various substances .
5 .
On the transmission of invisible rays of solar heat , And lastly , ( the subject which appears most pregnant with useful inferences for the common purposes of life , ) on the transmission of invisible terrestrial heat .
Not only the general potr sition , that the rays of heat , both solar and terrestrial , are detained in their passage through various bodies , appears to be here completely evinced , but the great variety in the power of the transmitting bodies seems alsoo to be determined with abundance of accuracy , and affords matter of much consideration and curiosity .
From the sixth article , in which it is intended to prove that the rays of heat , both solar and terrestrial , are liable to be scattered on rough surfaces , it appears that all bodies , even the most polished , are sufficiently rough to scatter heatin -all directions .
And the chief object of the twenty-four experiments here described , is to compare the effects of rough surfaces on heat with their simultaneous effects on light .
The general and rather unexpected result is here brought forward , that colours have no concern whatever in the laws that relate to the scattering of heat .
The chief object of the whole of this inquiry follows next in the seventh article , where the question is discussed , " Whether light and heat be occasioned by the same or by different rays ?
" One of the leading facts deduced from the experiments in the fourth section , is that there are rays of heat , both solar and terrestrial , not endowed with a power to render objects visible , and that there are different degrees of heat in the prismatic spectrum of these invisible rays .
This being established , the question now , according to the original enunciation , is in fact , t " Whether some of these heat-making rays may not have a power of rendering objects visible , superadded to their own already established power of heating bodies ?
" From a general and comparative view of those among the preceding experiments which apply to this question , we gather that no kind of regularity takes place among the proportions of the luminous and heating rays which are stopped in their passage , and that hence it might be reasonably inferred that heat and light are entirely unconnected .
Yet , not to evade the above hypothesis , the Doctor enters into a more minute investigation of the subject , and shows that , admitting , according to the supposition , that the same rays being both luminous and calorific , may in their passage through certain media be so affected as to produce the very discordant results observed in the experiments , it is yet evident , on a due comparison of those results , that no given proportion that may be ascribed to this operation of the transmitting media , will anyways account for the general phenomenon ; the degrees-of heat being in some instances greatly redundant , and in others as much deficient , both ways deviating from any given proportion .
Thus it is that he reduces his opponent to the dilemma of either maintaining that the same agent may under different circumstances produce effects perfectly dissimilar , such as heat without light , decreasing heat and increasing light , or the reverse ; or else to admit that there actually is a difference between the rays that give light , and those which produce heat .
A more direct proof of the difference of the two sorts of rays is deduced from the manifest results of the experiments , in which the stoppage of one sort of rays does by no means occasion the stoppage of the other sort .
In investigating this subject the Doctor controverts a conjecture that the phrenomena observed may be ascribed to a peculiar texture 6r configuration in the diaphanous substances , which produce differences in the transmission of the rays , though there be no difference in the rays themselves .
This hypothesis also is minutely investigated , and its contradiction with the experiments being pointed out , its very foundation seems in fact to be wholly subverted .
Lastly , another direct proof of the difference of the two sorts of rays , is deduced from a comparative view of the results of some of the experiments , from which it appears that the stoppage of heat is in general gradually extending as far as five minutes in time , whereas the suppression of light hitherto appears to be instantaneous .
This , together with various other arguments derived from the transmission of terrestrial heat , which cannot be properly explained in a manner sufficiently concise for this place , seem to evince that in fact the law by which heat is transmitted is essentially different from that which directs the passage of light , and that hence there is every reason to believe that the rays of heat are different from those of light .

