List of Candidates .
207 Figs. 2 and3.\#151 ; " Finely granular " lisemic leucocytes ( cat ) , incubated for twenty-four hours at 30 ' C , and beginning to undergo " vacuolatiou .
" In most of the vacuoles no particles are visible .
Photographed while living , x 1000 .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Two incubated leucocytes .
In each the outline of the cell body is just visible ; the nucleus , darkly stained with methylene blue , has been made to smear ; before incubation the nuclei of the leucocytes would not smear .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; " Finely granular " lisemic leucocyte ( dog ) , killed very slowly ( 5 ' C , ten days ) .
The nucleus has become spheroidal and excentric in position .
When fresh the granules of the cell-body were exhibiting Brownian movement .
Osmic vapour , then Ehrlich 's logwood , x 1000 .
Figs. 6 and 7.\#151 ; " Finely granular " hsemic leucocytes ( dog ) , showing " rosette " form of nucleus commonly assumed .
Blood oxalated and incubated for forty-eight hours .
Fixation by drying over osmic vapour .
Hsematoxylin and eosin .
x 1000 .
March 1 , 1894 .
Dr. PERKIN , Vice-President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates for election into the Society were read , Bateman , Sir Frederic , M.D. Bateson , William , M.A. Beevor , Charles Edward , M.D. Bell , Robert .
Boulenger , George Albert .
Bourne , Professor Alfred Gibbs , D.Sc .
Bovey , Henry Taylor , M.A. Bradford , John Rose , M.D. Bryan , George Hartley , M.A. Burdett , Henry Charles .
Buzzard , Thomas , M.D. Callaway , Charles , D.Sc .
Callendar , Hugh Longbourne .
Cheyne , William Watson , F.R.C.S. Clarke , Sir George Sydenham , Major R.E. Clowes , Professor Frank , D.Sc .
Corfield , William Henry , M.D. Darwin , Leonard , Major R.E. VOL. lv .
as follows:\#151 ; Dibdin , William J. , F.C.S. Downing , Arthur Matthew Weld , M.A. Edgeworth , Professor Francis Ysidro , M.A. Etheridge , Robert , F.G.S. Froude , Robert Edmund .
Gray , Andrew , M.A. Griffiths , Ernest Howard , M.A. Haddon , Professor Alfred Cort , M.A. Heycock , Charles Thomas , M.A. Hickson , Sydney John , M.A. Hill , George Henry , M.Inst .
C.E. Hill , Professor M. J. M. , M.A. Hind , George Jennings , Ph. D. Howes , Professor George Bond , F.L.S. Jones , Professor John Viriamu , M.A. Q 208 Dr. E. L. Melius .
Lansdell , Rev. Henry , D.D. Lockwood , Charles Barrett , F.R.C.S. Love , Augustus Edward Hough , M.A. Lydekker , Richard , B.A. McConnell , James Frederick Parry , Surgeon-Major , F.R.C.P. Maceweu , Professor W illiam , M.D. Mansergh , James , M.Inst .
C.E. Martin , John Biddulph , M.A. Martin , Sidney , M.D. Matthey , Edward , F.C.S. Minchin , Professor George M. , M.A. Mott , Frederick Walker , M.D. Hotter , James Lane , Surgeon-Lieut.-Col .
Ord , William Miller , M.D. Penrose , Francis Cranmer , M.A. Power , William Henry .
Purdie , Thomas , B.Sc. Read , Thomas Mellard , F.G.S. Rutley , Frank , F.G.S. Salomons , Sir David , M.A. Scott , Alexander , M.A. Scott , Dukinfield Henry , M.A. Seebohm , Henry , F.L.S. jDegeneration in the Spinal [ Mar. 1 Smith , Rev. Frederick John , M.A. Stebbing , Rev. Thomas Roscoe Rede , M.A. Stewart , Professor Charles , M.R.C.S. Stirling , William , M.D. Stuart , Professor T. P. Anderson , M.D. Sutton , J. Bland .
Swan , Joseph Wilson .
Thomson , Professor John Millar , F.C.S. Truman , Edwin Thomas , M.R. C. S. Tuke , Daniel Hack , M.D. Ulrich , Professor George Henry Frederick , F.G.S. Veley , Victor Hubert , M.A. Waterhouse , James , Colonel .
Webb , Francis William , M.Inst .
C.E. Whymper , Edward , F.R.G.S. Wimsburst , James .
Windle , Bertram Coghill Allen , M.D. Woodward , Horace Bolingbroke , F.G.S. Wynne , William Palmer , D.Sc .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Preliminary Note on Bilateral Degeneration in the Spinal Cord of Monkeys ( Macacus ) following Unilateral Lesion of the Cortex Cerebri .
" By E. L. Mellus , M.D. Communicated by Professor V. Horsley , F.R.S. Received December 22 , 1893 .
( From the Pathological Laboratory of University College , London .
) Having for some time been engaged in an investigation of the question as to how far the fibres of each pyramid descend both halves of the spinal cord , I am in a position to state that in the bonnet monkey ( Macacus sinicus ) the following arrangement prevails .
Method of Investigation.\#151 ; The animal being etherised , and the left hemisphere of the brain exposed by a single trephine hole ( sometimes enlarged afterwards ) , a small portion of the excitable area of the 1894 .
] Cord following Lesion of the Cortex Cerebri .
209 motor cortex was selected as detailed below , the selection being confirmed in each case by electrical stimulation .
A small piece of the cortex , about 0'4 cm .
square , constituting the focus of the movement observed , was removed , care being taken to remove also a little of the underlying corona radiata to be sure that no cortex was left .
The wounds healed , without exception , within 24 hours by first intention .
Beyond slight paresis , which generally disappeared in 24 hours , no symptoms were observed to result from the excision .
Professor Horsley kindly did the operations for me .
After three weeks the animals were killed , the brain and cord hardened in Muller 's solution , and stained in osmic acid after the method of Marchi .
Results of Investigations .
Three foci of representation were selected for excision , the left hemisphere being chosen in every case ( vide Method of Investigation ) .
I. Focus for the movements of the thumb .
II .
Focus for the movements of the hallux .
The course taken by the descending degenerated fibres was as follows:\#151 ; I. Hallux Focus removed.\#151 ; In this case the lesion consisted of the removal of about 16 sq .
mm. of cortex between the superior precentral sulcus and the fissure of Rolando , and bounded below by the level of the superior frontal sulcus .
Degenerated fibres were found in both lateral columns of the cord , the large majority being on the right side .
The degenerated fibres were scattered throughout the entire area of the crossed or lateral pyramidal tract , not being restricted to any special part of it , though it might be said they were a little more dense posteriorly .
Throughout the cervical , dorsal , and lumbar regions the total number of degenerated fibres was not diminished , though , of course , relatively increased in the lower cord .
In the pons and medulla the degeneration was entirely confined to the left pyramidal tract ( the side of the lesion ) .
At the decussation in the upper cervical region the degenerated tract divided ; about one-third going to the lateral column of the same side , the remaining two-thirds crossing to the lateral tract on the opposite side .
In the upper cervical region there were a very few degenerated fibres remaining in the direct tract ( anterior column ) , and below the middle of the cervical enlargement none could be seen .
II .
Thumb Focus removed.\#151 ; In this case the lesion consisted of a similar removal of cortex at a point just above the lower end of the intra-parietal sulcus , and between it and the fissure of Rolando , and , consequently , just behind the inferior genu of the fissure of Rolando Q 2 210 Mr. H. Wilde .
Variation of Magnetic Declination [ Mar. 1 , ( Beevor and Horsley ) .
As in the case of the hallux focus , degeneration was also confined to the pyramidal tracts of the same side ( left ) as the lesion , throughout the pons and medulla .
At the decussation of the pyramids there was also a slight division of the degenerated fibres , but in this case a few fibres only ( less than one in ten ) went to the lateral column of the same ( left ) side of the cord .
There may have been two or three degenerated fibres left in the direct tract after the decussation , but this could not be positively stated .
In the cervical and upper dorsal regions the degenerated fibres gradually decreased in number .
At the level of the second dorsal there were a very few degenerated fibres still left in each lateral column .
At the third dorsal they had entirely disappeared .
It seems probable , from these observations , that a second decussation lower down in the cord\#151 ; recrossing\#151 ; does not occur , and that the bi-lateral degeneration observed by Pitres , Sherrington , Langley , Muratoff , and others is a genuine bi-lateral descent of fibres from one hemisphere .
II .
" On the Relations of the Secular Variation of the Magnetic Declination and Inclination at London , Cape of Good Hope , St. Helena and Ascension Island , as exhibited on the Magnetarium .
" By Henry Wilde , F.R.S. Received February 19 , 1894 .
In a paper which was read before the Royal Society in June , 1890 , I showed that the principal phenomena of terrestrial magnetism and the secular changes in its horizontal and vertical components could be explained on the assumption of an electro-dynamic substance ( presumably liquid or gaseous ) rotating within the crust of the earth in the plane of the ecliptic , and a little slower than the diurnal rotation .
By means of some electro-mechanism , new to experimental science , which I termed a magnetarium , the period of backward rotation of the internal electro-dynamic sphere required for the secular variations of the magnetic elements on different parts of the earth 's surface was found to be 960 years , or 22'5 minutes of a degree annually .
It was also demonstrated that the inclination of the axes of the electro-dynamic and terrestrial globes to each other of 2(| ' 30 ' , was the cause of the inequality of the declination periods about the same meridian in the northern and southern hemispheres ; as instanced in the short period of outward westerly declination at London , and the long period of outward westerly declination at the Cape of Good Hope and St. Helena .
The object of the present communication is , firstly , to make a more

