]\gt ; On the Theory of Capillarity .
ago .
The latter are true " " cells containing a liquid and two metallic surfaces , and they generate a voltage by exposure to : the former are sistances simply ; but they will prove much more Conyenien because they are used with a galvanometer instead of an electrometer .
On the Theory of pillar i By E. T. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. Received Read AlIay 2 S1 .
The fundamental quantities in the theory of capillary phenomena ars the ( which we shall suppose expressed in dynes per centimetre ) , and the -energy ( which we shall suppose expressed in ergs per square centimetre ) .
The relation between these two quantities is at once given by the thermodynamic equation connecting available with total energy : it is therefore , ( 1 ) where denotes absolute temperature .
This equation implies that when the area of a surface of separation is increased by 1 cm.2 at temperature , the external encies do work amounting to ergs against the surface-tension : and this be the with a further contribution of ergs which is )ropriated from the heat-energy of neighbouring bodies , becomes resident in the filn ] , giving rise to an increase of ergs in its internal energy .
The relation between the surface-tension and is , of course , exactly the same as the relation between the electromotive force of a voltaic cell and the energy of the reactions which occur in the cell .
S 2 .
As in the comparative theory of chemical substances tlJe heat evolved a reaction is a more fundamental quantity than the E.M.F. of a cell which can be ased on the reaction , so in molecular theory the intel'nal energy of a of separation is a more fundamental quantity than the surfacetension to which it gives rise ; and it erefore becomes of to study the ) quantity Now the value of the surface-tension has been experimentally determined for several liquids over wide ranges of temperature by and Shields ; * from their results it is possible by the equation ( 1 ) ) to 'Phil .
, vol. 184 , 1893 , p. 647 .
Prof E. .
Whittaker .
[ Apr. 29 , compute the amount of the writer has done this ( see tables below ) .
One of the peculiarities of surface-tcnsion by aInsay and Shields , namely the tendency of to becomc insensibly s1nall with rising temperature the critical is reache is at onre explained when is considered : for it appears that , at ) peratul C oaching the critical point , the term is very large with the term in equation ( 1 ) , so that in this CJion the nsists ahnost entirely of the ter1n , and the -tenslon ( so to speak ) a small quantity of the second order .
here seems to no reason for supposing that the surface-energy itself vanishes ] ) efore the critical point is reached .
S 3 .
The main object of the vriter , , in was to see whether it obeyed any simple law 0 could be represented by any simple formula .
This quest has apparently th success , it is obvious that an empirical relation only on the ) ehaviour of fiye substances over a limited ) of temperature , ( as yet ( ed any tbeoretical explanation , is to be ith mtion u further } ) with experimental results is The relation in question is that th -,.,7l in with its own ) of the interned the Perhaps it will be well to define \ldquo ; A is well nown , heat })lied for ) in vays , namely ( 1 ) in the of the substance as it passes from state ) in rainst external lcies 1 in the former of these way is tent : the of eyron a usius , it \ldquo ; where denotes the ) SSll G nl lnle of the substance ( after ) inteunal tcnt h we ) with " " so the classical theory of ) The is , then , feattles in the vionr follows .
1908 .
] On the Theory of with a zero value at ( or very near ) the critical point , at first increases very rapidly as ; but this rate of increase soon decays , and when the temperature has fallen or below the critical point increases much more slowly .
A point is at reached , about 18 below the critical point , at which is stationary : and thenceforward diminishes as the temperature decreases , \mdash ; a somewhat surprising result .
These changes in are identical with the of the function , which has its stationary point at the same temperature as S4 .
\mdash ; The following tables illustrate the matter .
The five substances considered represent all the non-associating substances investigated by Ramsay and Shields*for which values of the internal latent heat were immediately available .
The tables stop before the neighbourhood of the critical point is reached , but it obviously becomes difficult , as the critical point is approached , to derive trustworthy values of , which here consists mainly of the product of the factor into the small and uncertain factor and is therefore liable to large errors : the values of in this region are probably also very uncertain , and in the present state of experimental knowledge it seems hazardous to carry the comparison of and nearer than or to the critical point ; there is , however , a general agreement between and between this point and the critical , in that they both rapidly decrease to zero .
In the tables , the numbers in the column are absolute temperatures in Centigrade degrees ; in the second column are iven the values of the surface-tension as found by Bamsay and Shields ; in the third column are the values of derived from these by taking diffelences and ; in the fourth column , the values of derived by equation ( 1 ) above from these values of , and ; in the fifth column , values of the inlernal latent heat in calories , taken from tables given by Mills ; and in the last column the values of as calculated from the numbers in the preceding columns .
It will be seen that the numbers in the last column are not strictly constant .
They might be made so by the estimated values of ( from which calculated ) , without reat violence to the data ; but of kind are evidently undesirable . .
cit. .
cit. 'Journ .
Phys. Chem vol. 8 , p. 383 , and vol. 10 , p. 1 .
24 Prof T. 17 Methyl Formate .
Critical teIIlI ) Carbon .
Critical 1908 .
] On the Theory of Capillarity .
Benzene .
Critical temperature , Chlorobenzene .
Critical temperature , 63 abs .

