]\gt ; 250 Mr. J. W. L. Glaisher on Hirn ( G. A. ) Exposition analytique et experimentale de la Mecanique de la Ohaleur .
3e Edition .
Tome II . .
Paris Sir l'Etude des moteurs thermiques et sir quelques points de the'orie de la Chaleur en general . .
1876 .
The Author .
Jones ( T. Wharfon ) , F.R.S. Evolution of the Human Base from and lower Animals a doctrine unsanctioned by Science .
London 1876 .
The Author .
Oil-Painting of the Hon. Robert Boyle , by , in gilt frame .
OilPainting of Sir Charles Wheatstone , by Charles Martin , in gilt Thirteen Engraved Portraits of Francis Bailey , Dr. Wm. Buckland , Sir Henry De la Beche , Faraday , Sir John nklin , Thomas Graham , .
Henry Holl , Moll , Sir Boderick Murchison , Sir James Canon Sedgwick ( framed and glazed ) .
Six Photographic Portraits of Amici , Liebig , Priestley , \amp ; c. ( framed and glazed ) .
The Bequest of the late Sir Charles Wheatstone , F.R.8 .
February 3 , 1@76 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and VicePrcsident , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers wele read : I. ' On Formulae of Verification in tho Partition of Numbers .
By J. W. L. GLAISHER , M.A. , F.R.S. Received December 1875 .
In iting d all the partitions of a number it is convenient to have tests which will verify that llone been omitted ; and it is the main object of paper to give formulae which are available for this purpose .
At the Edinburgh Meeting of the British Association ( Report 1871 , Transactions the Sections , p. 23 ) , Sylvestel .
communicated the elegant and useful I. where in any partition , denotes the number of 's present , the number Veriftcation in the Partition of Numbers .
the nunlber of , thd the extends to the the number ; so that , the total numbel of the of ?
1 .
single of tion , \ldquo ; is relv sufficient to afford a rfect test of accuracy , the effects produced by omissions may ancel one auother .
In the present , for example , as the terms positive and , if the omitted rtition cined one and no 2 it old { as 1 in the telm and as 1 in lrm , ftlld its omission -ould not be pointed out .
ccasion several times to employ 's equatiou I. , and h the need of some additionnl formula to be used in comlexion ith , I led to seek idlltii .
It seemed natural first to in ) I. became when he signs positive .
from the identity dividin throughout by hnxe ; ivhence , ting Hieuts of II .
ivhere is the utlllbol .
of diffel.ent elements contnined in an example ) ; the rtitions n:\mdash ; Here lmmber of rtitions ) .
( the number .
of ) ) , and the number of 252 Mr. J. W. L. Glaishcr on one element , the number involving two elements , and \amp ; number involving three I. II .
become Combining the formulae I. and II .
, we have where may be written denoting the number of in partition .
The two formulae taken together , as just written , form of course a much better either singly .
There are two subsidiary tions connected with I. and II .
which are also wolth attention .
From 's equation ( ' Fundamenta Nop ' p. 185 ) , -\amp ; .
, we see that III .
, or according as is even square , au uneven , or not a square .
The sign to be taken if the rtition contains eyen number of , and the sign \mdash ; if the number is uneven .
Also from the same identity inyerted , yiz .
from we see that IV .
, where number of representations of as the sum of am even number of and R the number of representations { uneven number of squnles .
the case of , of the partitions involving only one elsment , all consist of an numbel .
of terms ; of the seventeen two elcments , in nine the unbel .
of tel.ms is even , and in eight uneven ; and of tho ten partitions involving three elements , in five the ]lnnlber is even and in five uneven ; so that since 9 is an uneven square , III .
gives The partitions of 9 into squares four in number , llld these give se to 2 , representations ; so substittlting inIV .
The nlso of tion in th Partition of denotes , also in .
and , the nnmber of isors of and ) cluded .
This formula does not verify the 1 of it yerifies , \amp ; c. ; and it es 67-2 .
I. or number , and 30-2 .
denotes the enclosed quantity is zero } does not contain at least l 's .
lor , and 30-2 .
rIII .
N-l , , as oughout , the point is wlitten in ] of brackets ( ex. 2 .
stands for ) , a negative fnctor is to be treated .
For , and EX .
, denotes that the enclosed quanfily is zero for which an element ilppenrs .
For ; and the es K. has the sitme meanin as in IX .
, , 3 , ilre the trinumbers .
For , the formula giyes XI .
If be uneven , O ; if be even , O , number of the number of \amp ; c. parti , and otes t the enclosed quantity is equal to ero mess , partition contains exactly ones , uo other uueven element .
is cqual to the numl ) of rtitious formed wholly of ments .
course , zero 254 Mr. J. W. L. Glaisher on For , the first formula gives [ Feb , XII .
whero refers only to partitions in which all the elements are uneven , denotes the number of partitions of into uneven elements ( so that ; and , for example , , 65 denotes the of partitions of into the elements 2 , 4 , 6 , 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 .
( 2 , 4 , 6 being the only admissible even elements , but all uneven elements being admissible ) , and in which 1 , 3 , 5 must each occur at least once ; so that in the partitions all the uneven numbers and the ( even ) suffixes may appear , and the ( uneven ) exponents all appear .
( Thus we might have written \amp ; c. for \amp ; c. ) For , we have The notation being as in XII .
, XIII .
Combining .
with XIII .
, we have XIV .
, 4 , or according as is 01 is ]lot a number .
Here the tion is the same as in XII .
and XIII .
; denotes the number of partitions into unevell elements , the number of partitions into the elements 2 , 1 , 3 , 5 . . .
, in which 2 must appear , into the elements 2 , 4 , 1 , 3 , 5 . . .
, hich 2 and 4 must both appear , and so on .
For , the formula gives The formulae .
to , which just been written down , are merely transhtions into analytical language of the identities:\mdash ; ( V. ) -\amp ; c. Verification in the Partition of Numbers .
\amp ; c. VIII .
\amp ; c. ( IX .
) ( X. ) ( XI .
) ( XII .
) ( XIII .
) \amp ; c. -\amp ; c. ; all of can be deduced withont difFlCulfV from the identities , 256 Mr. J. W. L. Glaisher on ( 3 ) ; of which ( a ) and are Euler 's well formulae , and and ( ) are given by Jacobi ( ' Fundamenta Nova , ' pp. 180 , 185 ) .
Of the teen verification formulae the first two are generally most convenient ; and , taken in connexion with III .
and IV .
, the four equations form an interesting system of mutually elated verifications .
All the formula ) can be used with great facility after a little practice , but some evidently far preferable to others .
Nos. II .
, III .
and IV .
were communicated to the Bristol Meeting of the British tion ( 1875 ) .
The following formulae , .
to XX .
, involve the consideration of the partitions of a number in which repetitions are excluded .
If by be denoted the number of partitions without repetitions of into the elements , and by the number of partitions into the same elements with repetitions , then , from the identity 2 .
\amp ; c. , which is delivable at once from , we have XV .
, 2 , 3 , where ellotes the number of partitions of the elements 1 , 2 . . .
, in which all except the highest must appear at once .
For , and the gives 2 .
From the identity we have XVI .
where denotes the number of partitions of that oontain an even numbel of terms , and the number that uneven number .
If be even , all the partitions in are included in ; and if be uneven , all are included in ; so that we have the theorem that all the partitions of into uneven elements without repetitions be left out of consideration , then of the rest the number of partitions which the numbel of terms is even is equal to the unber in the Partition of Numbers .
( partitions in the number of terms is .
For the , the partitions hich contain only uneven elements ithout repeions ftre in mber , of the rest , fourteen ( nsist of fourteem of an uneven number of terms .
We have , as ; obtain XVII .
number of partitions ithout l.epetitions into elements 1 , 2 , 3 . . .
, in which the greatest parts are . .
differ by unity ) .
And also , by multiplying by , we find each side of XVII .
; so all the partitions without l.epetitions a number be written down , then XVIII .
the number of partitions not involving 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , I6 . . .
lmber of partitions in hich the two greatest parts are consecutive .
In the case of , XVII .
gives XVIIT .
of course , there only two partitions without repetitions in hich , 2 . . .
are not and 63 , and in the eatest p are and Euler 's tity , -\amp ; c. here the exponents are the numbers ) , es the theorem XIX .
or ccording as is or is not of the form ) .
Thus we see that , msideriug only paltitions without repetitions , the llumbel of the partions of a non-pentagonal number into an even numbel of parts ays to the number of its paltitions into en umnber ; and that the number be gonal the numbers of meven pnrtitionlents diffel only by nity .
If We deducc from thnt .
; nd by 's identity , just quoted , the quantity in rhence or On Verification in the Partition of Numbers .
according as is or is not a triangular number .
The general term On the left-hand side is .
For , hhs formula gives Thers is a position of Euler 's which follows immediately from .
that the number of titions of a number into the uneven elements 1 , 3 , 5 . . .
is to the number of partitions without repetitions into tho elements 1 , 2 , 3 . . .
, or , the notation ready used , that .
It is natural to suppose that this striking theorm should admit of a simple ation by converting the rtitions of the one system into those of the other according to some rule , such in .
Ferrers 's method of ving the identity of the numbers of parti tionments into the elements 1 , 2 , and into parts not exceedimg in number Phil. .
The conversion , though not so simple as that just referl'ed to , is nevertheless elegamt and elementary ; it in effect consists of a transformation into the binary scale .
Thus consider a rtition into uneven ]lumbers containing l 's , , \amp ; c. This is transformable at once into 1 .
, 7 .
Now express in the binary scale so that \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. , then the partition becomes .
becomes , in which no parts are tical , since a number can be expressed in only in the form A being To rate this take Euler 's example of ; the partitions into uneven elements ( i ) , ( vi ) 5311 , ( iii ) ( iv ) , ( ix ) ( v ) , ( x ) By the ersion ( and ( ii ) remain altered ; ; ( iv ) ; ( v ) ; ( vi ) ; ; thus giving the partitions without repetitious , On the Poison-fangs of Snakes .
To reverse the process it is only necessary to remark that every number either uneven , or twice an uneven number , or four times an uneven mber , or eight times an uneyen number , \amp ; c. , so that every sum of difrent elements be uniquely reduced to the form .
\amp ; c. reduction is easy , converts to A little consideration that two diffelent partitions of one system can convert into the same parof the othel , so that every partition of eithel system corresponds liquely to partition of the othel ; and the numbers of pal'titions in the systems are thus equal .
Several conversions of are ven in the Phil. lfag .
for April 1875 ( S. .
xlix .
pp. 307-311 ) ; when vriting that note I failed to obtain the connexion between partitions into 1 , 3 , 5 . . .
repetitions and the partitions into , 2 , 3 . . .
without repetitions .
[ .
" " On the Development and Succession of the Poison-fangs of Snakes By CHARLES S. .
Communicated by JOHN .
Received Decembel 28 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) At the oonclusion of a paper upon the development of the teeth of )phidia , published in the first of the Philosophical ctions 1875 , I noted that there vere prities , hich I had not then sen able to understand , in the the de ) clopment of the oisoll-fangs .
reviewed the literature of the subject in a precedin paper 011 the development Amphibiall tceth , I will pass once to the description of the which the evelopment of .
Poisonous snakes divided roups\mdash ; those which have a shortened nlaxillary bone , rries the and thother tooth ; and those which the laxillary bone longer , immoynble , and often other teeth behind he In the former , or viperine poisonous snnkes , the poison-fang is , and , when out of use , lies reculnbent ; lntter , or colubrine oisonous snnkes , it is , from the bone being fixed , coustalltly rect 's Reptiles British .
As fresh pecimens for complete of levelopmental peculial'ities , I have only been iLble to examine one of the olubrine group , viz. the Of it ollc , roughly spea]eing , that the are deveoped jnst like other , for description of which I must efer to former paper , only that the tooth-germs necessarily modilied so as to produce the characteristic canaliculated tooth .

