1872 .
] On some Properties of Anhydrous Liquefied .
441 temperature which Hopkins has shown cannot be referred to a cooling nucleus and to differences of conductivity alone .
He further shows that this view of the origin of volcanic heat is independent of any particular thickness being assigned to the earth 's solid crust , or to whether there be at present a liquid fused nucleus , all that is necessary being a hotter nucleus than crust , so that the rate of contraction is greater for the former than the latter .
The author then points out that , as the same play of tangential pressures has elevated the mountain-chains in past epochs , the nature of the forces employed sets a limit to the height of mountain possible of the materials of our globe .
That volcanic action due to the same class of forces was more energetic in past time , and is not a uniform but a decaying energy now .
Lastly , he brings his views into relation with vulcanicity produced in like manner in other planets , or in our own satellite , and shows that it supplies an adequate solution of the singular and so far unexplained fact that the elevations upon our moon 's surface , and the evidences of former volcanic activity , are upon a scale so vast when compared with those upon our globe .
Finally , he submits that if his view will account for all the known facts , leaving none inexplicable , and presenting no irreconcilable conditions or necessary deductions , then it should be accepted as a true picture of nature .
Till .
ff On some Properties of Anhydrous Liquefied Ammonia .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received May 15 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) This investigation was made for the purpose of ascertaining the general solvent properties of the liquid , and to detect any manifest chemical reactions between it and various substances .
The method employed was precisely similar to that used in the examination of liquid cyanogen ( see roc .
Roy .
Soc. No. 131 , 1871 ) , the tubes being charged with anhydrous c loride of calcium previously saturated with the ammonia vapour .
Two hundred and fifty substances were submitted to contact with the iquid , and the general results in each case recorded .
The only elementary *** B^ances soluble in it were the alkali-metals proper , also iodine ( bromine tried ) , sulphur , and phosphorus .
The more frequently soluble in* organic salts were nitrates , chlorides , bromides , and iodides ; whilst oxides , .
rjf68 ' carb'nates , sulphides , and sulphates were very generally in- .
e ' Many saline substances , especially certain chlorides , bromides , * , ?
8 ' ant^ stdphates , absorbed ammonia freely , and swelled greatly , but did Bsolve .
The behaviour of the chlorides of mercury was peculiar , arums compounds of carbon were submitted to the action of the solu-i , 0 P'tassium in the liquefied vapour ; the free potassium disappeared , Ro elementary carbon was liberated .

