Reflections made by P. Francisco Lana S. J. upon an Observation of Signor M. Antonio Castagna , Super intendent of some mines in Italy , concerning the formation of Crystals : English 'd out of the XI .
Venetian Giornale de Letterati .
IN the last month of September , being arrived in the Val Sabbia into a place called le Mezzane , where I knew that those Crystals are generated , I observed in a spacious round of a Meadow , seated on a hillock , some narrow places bare of all herbs , in which alone , and no where else thereabout , those Crystals are produced , being all sex-angular , both points of them terminating in a pyramidal figure , sex-angular likewise .
I was told , that they were produced from the dews , because ( forsooth !
) being gathered over night , the next morning there would be found others at such a time only , when it was a serene and dewy sky ; and that upon the herbs of the meadow , and without the bounds of those bare and sterile places never any Crystals were to be found ; besides , that the ground having been in some places bared of all greens , and reduced to the condition of those other places , yet no crystals were ever seen to have been formed there .
But I , when I had examined , that in the neighbour-hood of that hill there was no mark at all of any Mines , did conclude , that it might be a plenty of nitrous steames , which might withal hinder vegetation in those places , and coagulate the Dew falling thereon .
And that those exhalations were rather Nitrous , than of an other kind , I was induced to believe , because Niter is not only the natural coagulum of water ter , as is manifest in artificial glaciations ; but also it ever retain the above said sex-angular figure , altogether like that of those Crystals .
Which may also be the very cause of the sex-angular figure in Snow ; this being nothing else but water concreted by its natural coagulum , which is a nitrous exhalation .
And to make it yet more manifest , that these are indeed expirations of niter I dug up some of the earth , and drew a Salt from it , which had both the taste and figure of Niter ; though some grains of it were of a square , others of a pyramidal , figure .
It therefore ought not to be affirmed , that a dewy vapour is of it self able to be formed into a solid gem ; because , if that were so , such vapours being easily carried by any motion of the Air from those narrow places , and falling down in dew far from the same , Crystals would be formed in those other places ; but they are only formed there : Whence we may very probably inferr , that thence are raised the exhalations , which do concrete the dew , after such a manner as the vapour or exhalation of Lead coagulates Quicksilver .

