1894 .
] Photographic Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion .
285 If the brightness of the lines in reality remains constant , they will appear relatively brightest at the two minima , owing to the reduction of continuous spectrum which is associated with the increased brightness of the star at maximum , and for the same reason they should appear brighter at principal than at secondary minimum .
Estimates of the brightness of the lines in relation to the continuous spectrum hare been made independently by four of my assistants , and , although estimates of this kind are liable to error , the general agreement is sufficient to indicate that when all allowance is made fpr the varying continuous spectrum , there is a maximum of brightness of the bright lines about half a day after secondary minimum .
The apparent increase of brightness near principal minimum seems to be due solely to the reduced intensity of the continuous spectrum .
I have to express my obligations to Messrs. Fowler , Baxandall , Shackleton , Butler , Wardale , Crabtree , and North , who , at different times , have assisted in taking the photographs .
XIII .
" On the Photographic Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , C.B. , F.R.S. Received June 13 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The paper consists of a description and discussion of photographs of the spectrum of the Orion Nebula , taken with the 30-inch reflectoi at Westgate-on-Sea in February , 1890 , of which a preliminary account was communicated to the Royal Society at the time , lifty-four lines are tabulated as belonging to the spectrum of the nebula , nine of them being due to hydrogen .
Tables are given showing .
1 .
The wave-lengths , intensities , and probable origins of the lines photographed in the spectrum of the nebula .
2 .
A comparison of the lines in the spectrum of the nebula with lines in the spectra of ( a ) P. Cygni , ( b ) bright line stars and planetary nebulas , and ( c ) stars in Groups II , IH\#187 ; and IV , of the classification according to the meteontic hypothesis .
The complete discussion has elusions:\#151 ; led to the following general con1 .
The spectrum of the nebula of Orion is a compound one consisting of hydrogen lines , low temperature metallic lines and flutings , and high temperature lines .
The mean temperature , however , is relatively low.* * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , p. 152 , 1887 .
Dr. T. Ewan .
[ June 21 , 2 .
The spectrum is different in different parts of the nebula .
3 .
The spectrum hears a striking resemblance to that of the planetary nebulae and bright line stars .
4 .
The suggestion , therefore , that these are bodies which mast be closely associated in any valid scheme of classification , is con-firmed .
5 .
Many of the lines which appear bright in the spectrum of the nebula appear dark in the spectra of stars of Groups II and III ; and in the earlier stars of Group IV , and a gradual change from bright to dark lines has been found .
6 .
The view , therefore , that bright line stars occupy an intermediate position between nebulae and stars of Groups II and III is greatly strengthened by these researches .
XIV .
" On the Absorption Spectra of Dilute Solutions .
" By Those .
Ewan , B.Sc. , Ph. D. , 1851 Exhibition Scholar in Chemistry in the Owens College .
Communicated by Professor H. Dixon , F.R.S. Received April 7 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The measurements recorded in the paper were made in the hope of obtaining some information as to the molecular condition of salts in dilute solution .
In order to obtain exact quantitative results it is necessary to measure the extinction coefficients of the solutions .
For this purpose a new spectrophotometer was devised , by means of which it was possible to work with very dilute solutions .
In this instrument , by the advice of Professor A. Schuster , F.R.S. , a Lummer and Brodhun photometric prism was used , and the photometric measurements were made by means of Abney 's rotating sector .
The absorption spectra of solutions of cupric sulphate , chloride bromide and nitrate , containing generally O'003 to 0'004 gr. mol .
per litre , were measured and found to be , within the limits of experimental error , identical .
The solutions of cupric acetate absorb , for the same amount of copper , much more light than those of the other salts used .
The difference tends to disappear as the solutions become more dilute , and it is increased by the addition of acetic acid .
These facts point to the conclusion that the difference is due to the incomplete electrolytic dissociation of the salt , and to the undissociated part having an absorption spectrum differing from that of the dissociated part .
Dilute solutions of the potassium and ammonium salts of \#171 ; -dinitro-phenol ( 1 ' 2 .
4 ) were found to possess very nearly the same absorp-

