An Account of Three Books .
1 .
The Royal Pharmacopaea , Galeno-Chymical , according to the Practise of the most eminent and learned Physicians of France , and published with their several approbations .
By Moses Charras , the Kings chief Operator in his Royal Garden of Plants .
In English .
THe diligent and Ingenious Anthor having some years since received Order and Directions from Monsieur Anthony d ' Aquine , primary Physician to the French King , for composing a Galeno-Chymical Pharmacopaea : his Industrious pursuance of the same from year to year , hath at length produced this Work .
The greater part of the Contents whereof , although well known to most learned Physicians ; yet because there are also amongst them many uncommon Experiments , and all made with great accurateness , and delivered with equal perspicuity : it doth therefore very well deserve the following account .
It is divided into Four Parts .
The first is of Pharmacy in general .
As of the Names and Principles of Chemical Pharmacy .
The choice and preparation of Medicines , as Lotion , Purgation , Trituration , Cribration , Infusion , Humectation and Immersion , Nutrition , Dissolution , Fermentation , Digestion , Circulation , Cohobation , and the rest .
Together with the several degrees of Fire , and kinds of Furnaces , Lutes , Vessels , &amp;c. The Second Part treats of Galenical Preparations and Compositions , in two Books .
In the first , of Internals , as Juices , Infusions and Decoctions , Julaps , Apozemes , Emulsions , Potions , Gargarisms , and the rest .
In the second Book , of Externals , as Oils by Expression , Infusion and Decoction , Balsams , Embalming of dead Bodies , &amp;c. The Third Part treats of Chemical Preparations , in three Books .
In the first , of Vegetals .
And first of Destillation , as of Roots , of moist and cold Herbs , of bitter Herbs , of Antiscorbuticks , of Flowers , Odoriferous Waters , Ardent Spirits , Seeds , Berries , Grains and Pulse ; Woods , Soot , Wine , Spirit of Wine ( where also of Spirit of Wine Tartariz 'd ) of Tartar , Vinegar , Sugar , Manna and Gums .
Then of Tinctures , ~ , Extracts , Resins , Salts , Tartar crystalliz 'd , Chalybiate , Emetick , Vitrioliz 'd , Foliated ; of Volatile Salt of Tartar , and of Sal Volatile Oleosum .
In the second Book , of Animal Prepara ions .
As of Humane Skull , Blood and Urine ; Of Vipers , HartsHorn , Toads , Frogs , River Crabs , Storks , Honey , Wax , and Earthworms , Cantharides , Ants , the Peacock and Castor .
In the third , of Mineral Preparations ; as of Earths and Boles , Waters , Lime , Lapidis Judaici , Lincis , of the Blood-stone , Crystal , Coral , Pearls , Talk , Common and Sea-Salt , dulcify 'd Spirit of Salt , ~ , Sal Poly chrestes , Spirit of Nitre , Aqua fortis , Aqua Regia , ~ , Salt Armoniack , the Urinous Spirit of Salt Armoniack , the acid Spirit , Vitriol , Monsieur la Faveur 's ~ Water , Sulphur of Vitriol , dulcify 'd Spirit of Vitriol , Salt of Vitriol ; Sulphur , Lac Sulphuris , Spirit and Salt of Sulphur , Arsenick , Ambergreese , Amber .
Of Metals , as several ways of calcining and refining of Gold ; and of its Tinctures .
Refining , Crystals , and Tincture of Silver .
The Infernal Stone .
Crocus , Sal , &amp; Tinctura Martis , Vitriolum &amp; Spiritus Veneris .
Saccharum , Spiritus &amp; Balsamus Saturni .
Flores Jovis , Bezoardicum Joviale , &amp;c. The Cinaber , and several Precipitates and Sublimates of Mercury , &amp;c. The Icy Liquor , Emetick Powder , Philosophic Spirit , and other preparations of Antimony .
The Fourth Part contains several particular Receipts , taken out of good Authors , with others communicated by divers Learned Persons .
The Work is illustrated by several Copper Plates .
II .
Decameron Physiologicum : Or , Ten Dialogues of Natural Philosophy .
To which is added ( they are the Authors words ) the proportion of a straight Line , equal to half the Arch of a Quadrant .
By Thomas Hobbs of Malmsbury .
I Am not more certain of the Authors being a learned Man , than I am of his mistakes in several Particulars of this Book Yet my business is not here to dispute it , but to give a just account of it , which is as follows .
The first Dialogue is of the Original of Natural Philosophy ; which ( from the Authority of Diodorus Siculus ) he ascribes to the Astronomers of AEthiopia : Many of whose Posterity ( their only Disciples ) were transplanted into AEgypt , ( whence Pythagoras , &amp;c. searched their Philosophy into Greece ) and Assyria , and were by the Hebrems there called Chaldies , or Chaldim , corruptly , as he conjectures , from Chusdim , as that from Chusdim , as being a Race of AEthiopians ; for AEthiopia and the Land of Chus are the same .
But he conceives , That the first Studiers of Natural Philosophy commonly so called , were the Greeks : That the several Sects hereof were the occasion of Heresies in the Primitive Church ; And this and the Scriptures together of the School-men .
Whereto he subjoyns his thoughts of the nature of Body , defineing it , a thing that hath Being in it self without the help of Sense .
The second is of the Principles and Method of Natural Philosophy : Wherein he ~ all Causes , but Motion , the universal Efficient .
This he defines to be , Change of Place .
Place to be , the space wherein a Body is contained ; or , The Image of a Body .
Time , the Image of Motion .
To which he subjoyneth some Propositions .
The Third is of Vacuum , which he denies from several , by him supposed Arguments .
Asserteth , That the space above the Mercury in the Barometre , is filled with Air .
And that in working upon the Pneumatic Engine , there is never any Air pumped out .
The fourth is , of the System of the World .
Wherein he endeavours ( chiefly from the Doctrine of Copernicus , Kepler and Galileo ) to explicate the Cause of the motion of the Earth about the Sun , of the Moon about the Earth , and both about their own Centres .
Why the AEquinoctial and Solstitial Points , are not always in the same point of the Ecliptic of the Fixed Stars .
Noting , from the same Authors , that the AEquinoctial Points proceed from West to East , every Hundred years , one Degree or very near ; which is 36000 years for one whole Revolution .
And lastly , why the Distance betwixt the AEquinoctial and the Solstice is not always the same .
The fifth is , Of the Motions of Water and Air .
Wherein he speaks his sense of Tides , and their variations ; deducing them partly from the Motions both of the Earth and Moon ; &amp; partly from the situation of the Sea in respect of the Land .
Of the Cause of Clouds , &amp;c. Of Springs ; noting a mistake of Julius Scaliger about a River in Savoy , and thence of the Original of Springs .
The sixth is , of the Causes and Effects of Heat and Cold : Where he speaks his opinion of the nature of Fire and Ice .
The Inflammability of Gun-powder ; of Thunder and Lightning ; which , he saith , will not burn .
The seventh is , of Hard and Soft , and of the Atoms , that fly in the Air .
Wherein he also speaks , what he thinks , of such Bodies as are generally conceived to be petrified : of Elasticity , and of contagious Air ; The eighth is , of Gravity and Gravitation : Wherein he positively denies , That Oil poured upon Quicksilver in a bended Siphon ( only in at one arm of the Siphon ) will cause the Quicksilver in that Arm to descend .
He doubts not , but that the Species of heavy , hard , opaque and Diaphanous , were all made so at the Creation .
In the end , explains a Scheme showing the Degrees of the Inclinatory Needle in passing from one Pole to another .
The ninth is , of the Loadstone and its Poles .
Where , of the Magnetic Attraction : The Touching of Needles : The Variation of the Compass , and of that Variation : The rest is offered , as a Confutation of the Book called Longitude found .
Asserting , contrary to that Book , The Poles of the Earth , and the Magnetic Poles to be the same .
The last is , of Transparence and Refraction .
Where he asserteth , That no Body , which was not Transparent from the Creation , can be made so by Humane Art .
That Refraction is dependent upon Hardness in Conjunction with Gravity .
And concludes with his Opinion of the Power of the Earth to produce living ~ .
To these Dialogues , the Author subjoyns a supposed Demonstration of a straight Line , equal to the Arch of a Quadrant .
III .
Mechanic ~ : Or , the Doctrine of Handy Works .
Began Jan. 1 .
prosecuted in two other Essays , February 1.and March 1 .
1677 .
And intended to be continued monthly .
By Joseph Moxon , Hydrographer to the King .
THE Authors Undertaking , to set down what is already known , being good ; and not unlikely to give occasion to others to consider of further Improvements in these Matters : it may not be thought improper , that the same , once for all , be here represented .
The Author , as he saith in his Preface , having for many years been conversant in Handy-Works , especially Smithery , Founding , Drawing , Joynery , Turning , Engraving , Printing of Book and Pictures , making of Globes , Maps , ~ Instruments ; and being willing publicly to communicate his knowledge herein ; hath in his first Essay begun with ~ , as comprehending with the Black-Smiths Trade , all other handy-crafts , using either ~ or file , from the Anchor-Smith to the Watch-maker : Which will be an Introduction to most other handycrafts , as having a dependence upon this .
And first , he gives Account of the several Parts , Kinds and Uses of the Smiths Forge , Anvil , Tongues , Hammer and Sledg , Vice Hand-Vice , Pliars , Drill and Drill-Bow , SkrewPlate and its Taps .
Then of Forging and the several Heats to be given : Of brazing and soldering .
The several sorts of Iron and their proper Uses .
And lastly , of Filing , and the several sorts of Files .
In the second Essay , of the making of Hinges , Locks and Keys : The manner of Riveting , making of Screws and Nuts .
And particularly , of cutting W~rmes upon great Screws .
In the third Essay , of the making of Jacks , Bullet-molds , Twisting of Iron , Case-hardening .
Some Tools not before described .
The several sorts of Steel ; the manner of softning , hardning and tempering the same .
LONDON , Printed for John Martyn , Printer to the Royal Society .
1678 .

