VIII .
" On Hourly Observations of the Magnetic Declination , made by Captain Rochfort Maguire , R.N. , and the Officers of H. M. Ship ' Plover , ' in 1852 , 1853 and 1854 , at Point Barrow , on the shores of the Polar Sea .
" By Major-General EDWARD SABINE , R.A. , D.C.L. , Treas .
and Vice-President R.S. Received August 14 ; 1857 .
( Abstract .
) Point Barrow is the most northern cape of that part of the American continent which lies between Behring Strait and the Mackenzie River .
It was the station , from the summer of 1852 to the summer of 1854 , of H.M.S. 'Plover , ' furnished with supplies of provisions , &amp;c. for Sir John Franklin 's ships , or for their crews , had they succeeded in making their way through the land-locked and ice-encumbered channel by which they sought to effect a passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific .
In this most dreary , and apparently uninteresting abode , Captain Maguire and his officers happily found an occupation in observing and recording , for seventeen months unremittingly , the hourly variations of the magnetic declination and of the concomitant auroral phenomena , in a locality which is perhaps one of the most important on the globe for such investigations .
Their observatory , placed on the sand of the sea-shore , was constructed of slabs of ice , and was lined throughout with seal skins .
The instruments had been supplied from the Woolwich establishment , with the requisite instructions for their use , and the observations were made and recorded precisely in the same manner as those in the Colonial Magnetic Observatories .
The observations were sent by Captain Maguire to the Admiralty , and were in due course transmitted to General Sabine , by whom they were subjected to the same processes of reduction as those in the colonial observatories : the results are given and discussed in this communication .
A sufficient body of the larger disturbances to permit an examination of their laws having been separated from the rest of the observations , it was found at Point Barrow , as elsewhere wherever a similar investigation has been made , that in regard to the frequency of their occurrence , and to the mean amounts of easterly and westerly deflection produced by them , the disturbances follow systematic laws depending on the hours of solar time .
The laws of the easterly and of the westerly disturbances were also found , at Point Barrow as elsewhere , to be distinct and dissimilar .
On further instituting a comparison between the disturbance-laws at Point Barrow and Toronto , it was found that although the laws of the deflections of the same name at the two stations did not correspond , there existed , on the other hand , a very striking and remarkable correspondence between the laws of the easterly disturbances at Point Barrow and of the westerly at Toronto , and between the laws of the westerly disturbances at Point Barrow and easterly at Toronto .
The correspondence is traced in much detail , for the purpose of showing that it is manifested , not in slight and unimportant particulars , but in the most marked characteristics of both classes of phenomena .
From the correspondence in the hours at which opposite disturbance-deflections prevail , it follows , that the portion of the diurnal variation which depends upon the disturbances , has opposite , or nearly opposite characteristics at the two stations .
In former papers the author considers that he has shown that , for the purpose of obtaining a correct knowledge of the phenomena of the regular solar diurnal variation , it is necessary to eliminate the influence of that portion of the observed diurnal variation which proceeds from the disturbances ; and he now adduces the observations at Point Barrow as strongly confirmatory of this .
When the diurnal variation is derived from the whole body of the observations at Point Barrow , retaining the disturbances , the westerly extreme of the diurnal excursion , which , as is well known , occurs generally in the extra-tropical part of the northern hemisphere at a little after 1 P.M. , is found to take place at 11 P.M. ; but when the larger disturbances are omitted , the westerly extreme falls at the same hour as elsewhere , viz. a little after 1 P.M. The author takes occasion to suggest the probability that the anomalies which have been supposed to exist elsewhere in the turning-hours of the solar diurnal variation in high latitudes may be susceptible of a similar explanation .
It appears , therefore , by the comparison of the Point Barrow and Toronto observations , that in the regular solar diurnal variation the progression at the two stations is similar , the easterly and westerly extremes being reached nearly at the same hours ; whilst in the disturbance diurnal variation the progression is reversed , the easterly extreme at the one station coinciding very nearly with the westerly extreme at the other .
This contrariety seems the more remarkable , since both variations appear to have the same primary or exciting cause , viz. the sun ; inasmuch as in each the period is a solar day .
The author draws the probable inference , that whilst the primary cause is the same in both , the mode of operation is different in the two cases .
Another important distinction between the phenomena of the solar diurnal variation and of the disturbance variation at Point Barrow and Toronto , is shown by the author to consist in the comparative magnitude of their range .
The increase in the range of the solar diurnal variation between Toronto and Point Barrow is , as nearly as may be , in the inverse ratio of the values of the horizontal force of the earth at the two stations ( which is the antagonistic force opposing all magnetic variations ) ; whilst on the other hand the increase in the range of the disturbance variation is many times greater than it would be according to the same proportion .
It would appear therefore that the absolute disturbing force must be much greater at Point Barrow than at Toronto ; suggesting the question , by what physical or other conditions is the locality distinguished at which the disturbing force is a maximum .
In correspondence with the great amount of the absolute disturbing force at Point Barrow is the frequency of the concomitant auroral manifestations , which greatly exceed that of any previous record known to the author .
It was the custom at Point Barrow to attach a distinguishing mark to all the hourly magnetic observations which were made when the Aurora was visible .
Taking the months of December , January , and February as those in which , in the latitude of Point Barrow , there is nearly a constant absence of day-light , there were , in those three months in 1852-1853 , 1788 hourly observations , at 461 of which the Aurora was visible ; and , in the same three months of 1853-1854 , there were 1837 hourly observations , at 616 of which the Aurora was seen .
There were therefore in the six months 3625 hourly observations , at 1077 of which the Aurora was seen contemporaneously , and at 2548 it was either not present or obscured by clouds : the presence of the Aurora was thus recorded at between one-third and one-fourth of the hours of observation .
Or possibly the frequency of its appearance may be more easily judged of by stating , that during these six months the Aurora was seen on six days out of every seven .
The record thus furnished by Capt. Maguire has enabled the author to treat the Aurora , for the first time , in the same way as the corresponding and connected phenomena of the magnetic disturbances are treated , viz. by distributing its recorded appearances into the several hours of their occurrence .
A table , in which the particulars of this distribution are contained , shows that 1 A.M. is the hour of their most frequent occurrence at Point Barrow , there having been 102 recorded appearances in the six months at that hour .
From 11 A.M. to 3 P.M. is the epoch of minimum , not a single instance of Aurora at any of those hours being recorded in the same six months .
The increase from the minimum to the maximum , and the decrease from the maximum to the minimum , are both continuous progressions , with only such very slight occasional interruptions as might assuredly be expected to disappear in mean numbers taken from a longer interval of time .
When the frequency of the Aurora at the different hours is compared with the respective amounts of easterly and of westerly disturbance-deflection at the different hours at Point Barrow , a very considerable approximation towards accordance is perceived between the frequency of the Aurora and the amount of the westerly deflections ; whilst , on the other hand , the auroral hours appear to have little or nothing in common with the turning-hours , or with the progression , of the easterly deflections .

