190 Mr. Porter and Dr. Edridge-Green .
Negative After-Images The intravenous injection of heated venom , even in the amount of IT mgrm .
per kilogramme of body weight , was found to be without effect upon rabbits ; examination of sections of the lungs and also of the liver , spleen , kidney , and heart muscle of animals killed half an hour after injection failed to reveal any separation of fibrin in the blood-vessels .
A control experiment , in which 073 mgrm .
per kilogramme of body weight was injected in the course of one minute , caused death at the end of 30 seconds .
The behaviour of heated venom , when injected into the blood stream , is thus seen to be consistent with the conclusion that the coagulant is a thrombin .
Summary .
The different mode of action exerted by thrombin and thrombokinase upon circulating blood plasma is described , and it is shown that the coagulant of viper ( Echiscarinaius ) venom , as exhibited by its effect in causing intravascular separation of fibrin when injected into the blood stream , and also indicated by its behaviour when Seated , is a thrombin and not a thrombokinase .
Negative After-images and Successive Contrast with Pure Spectral Colours .
By A. W. Porter , B.Sc. , F.R.S. , Fellow of University of London University College , and F. W. Edridge-Green , M.D. , F.R.C.S. ( Received March 31 , \#151 ; Read November 13 , 1913 .
) In a recent paper* Prof. Burch has criticised our results on " Negative After-Images and Successive Contrast with Pure Spectral Colours."f Prof. Burch suggests that the change in blue and violet obtained after fatigue with red light may be explained on the Young theory , if the stray light , which we stated was present , be taken into consideration .
He states that the reason , on this theory , why the violet appeared bluer and darker after fatigue to red was due to the elimination of the red component in the stray light .
In consequence of this criticism we have since repeated our experiments , taking the most minute precautions to exclude stray light by covering the * 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1913 , B , vol. 86 , p. 117 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1912 , B , vol. 86 , p. 434 .
and Successive Contrast with Pure Spectral Colours .
191 * whole apparatus and head of the observer with black velvet .
When these most minute precautions were taken to prevent the admixture of red or other light the results were exactly the same as before .
The experiments were conducted as follows : A region of pure violet , X4368-X4572 , was isolated in the Edridge-Green spectrometer , a deep blue-green glass quite opaque to red being placed in front of the slit , so that no red light could enter the instrument .
A region of pure red , X 6360-X 6570 , was isolated in another spectrometer , deep ruby glass being placed in front of the slit so that nothing but red light could enter the instrument .
The eye was then fatigued as before , one eye being vertically above the other , for 20 seconds , and the after-image projected upon a narrow vertical band in the violet region after turning the eyes round into the normal position , so that the two images crossed at right angles .
The result was exactly the same as stated previously by us , the region of violet crossed by the after-image appeared bluer and darker .
It should be here noted that when the red band was intently regarded for 10 seconds and the eye then slightly moved ( to another part of the same telescopic field ) a bright blue-green after-image was visible , although the only light then being received by the eye was red light .
The experiment with yellow light on a screen was repeated in the spectrometer with exactly the same result .
Pure yellow light , X 5820-X 5870 , was isolated in one spectrometer , and red light , X 6360-X 6570 , used to fatigue the eye .
The results were as before , the yellow appeared unchanged , or , when the exciting light was comparatively intense , slightly greener and darker in the region of the after-image , whilst a deep blue-green afterimage extended on either side .
These experiments show that the stray light , mentioned by us in our former paper , was of negligible amount ; for we have now obtained precisely the same results when stray light was most rigorously excluded .
Stray light , of amount comparable with that in our previous experiments , is present in all spectro-metric investigations unless precautions such as those described above are taken .
p 2

