]\gt ; 192 Prof. .
Jones .
Calculation of the : On the Calculation of the Coefficient of Mutual a Citcle and a Coaxial Helix , and of the Force between a Helical Current and a Uniform Circular Cylindrical Cm.rent Sheet By JONES .
F.R.S. Received ember December 1897 .
S 1 .
In measuring resistance by the method of have to detcrmine the coefficient of mutual induction of a wire and the circumferencc of a rotating cular disc placed ally with mean planes of the elix and the disc In a paper presented to the Physical November , 1888 , I gave a mebhod of calculating coefficient ; subsequent ation of the problem in connection with Lorenz apparatus made for the McGill University , lcd me both to a simplification of the method previously cribed , and also to a more solution .
S 2 .
If is the coefficient of muttlal induction of any two we have \amp ; ds ' , where distance betwcen ] ements d ; and between the se elements .
Let equations to the circle coaxial helix be A A Then } lf we angc the bless , putting , from Circl and a Coaxial Hetix , 1 find Aa , it may be ] ) ) the fourth -c !
\ldquo ; ut ' . . . . . . . . .
If ' is cocfii c ind ( :tion of the lelix b of th xial l 194 Prof. J. .
Jones .
Calculation of the Coefficient It is clear that and we need therefore only consider the expression where axial lcngth of the helix , reckoned plane of the circle .
We may now proceed .
in two ways\mdash ; either by ithmic expression in powers of , which leads to a limited applicaf , ion since it is convergent only so lon as or by integration by parts which leads to an expression for all values of S 3 .
The first method I developed in the paper above We have Aa .
1 bet The .
proporties of these elliptic integraIs.nre of notice : \mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mutnal Induction of a Circle and a Coaxial .
195 , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( iu ) , . . . . . . . . .
( iv ) , . .
( v ) , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( vi ) , . . . . . . .
( vii ) .
\ldquo ; . . . . . . .
( viii ) : , dotting a function denotes difLerentiato I will be observed that ttnd are respectively the ptic of the { irst nnd second kind with regard lloduluR .
Tn put we caJt fin(I by a double ) of ( v ) areiation ' ' and the lculation of succe sive terms of S , given , and it : , we have to calculate the lowi in :\mdash ; , Prof. J. .
Joncs .
of the Coefficient , and .
, , \amp ; c. , by succesve applicatio of ( 4 ) , itnd finally S 6 .
An example may be , cfnl in rlons quantities concerned .
the c.ircle is in the mean plane of a helix of lxial lcngth cuefficient of mutual induction will be , or in case of the dimenSlons , inches cm .
The of given obtai11od in 1896 Jfutual Induction of a Circte and a oaxial Helix , .
197 .
Rbodes under the direction of Prof. Aylton in the Physical lboratory of the Central Institution , in which the Lorenz McGill University was tested by Prof. Ayrton and myseIf ppendix to the Report of the Electrical Standards Committee the British Association , 1897 ) .
The calculation was made by the newhat laborious method indicated in my paper " " On the Deternation of the Specific Resistance of Mercury in Absolnte :asure.\ldquo ; * It was checked by Mr. Mather , and subsequently ( lculated afresh by the method given here .
S 7 .
It is important in practice to determine the change in conquent on small changes in , and , both for the calculation of effect on of small errors of measurement , and because from ne to time the disc of any apparatus needs to be place , and possibly the coil , owing to a breakdown in insulation , ay sometimes need to be -wound .
Let en It may be shown by direct differentiation nsing relation ( iii ) tween { he functions and their differential coefficients that nd , ve former tions .
has already been found 1 calculating ; and easily calculable known alues of , \amp ; c. Since a homogeneous function of the first degree in it follows that , as is obvious in tho formulae bove giveu .
' Phil. Trans ( lS91 ) , p. 21 .
198 Prof. J. .
Jones .
alculation of the Coefficient S8 .
For the values of givell in S6 we find or Let us suppose that after -winding the coil mentioned and regrinding the disc , the diameters become Then and or inches Tberefore ches cm .
S 9 .
I now pass on to the second and more general method of ing with the expression\mdash ; Integrating by parts we have where , and Hence by simple changes we lave lvhere and are complete elliptic integrals of the first and kinds to modulus Mutual Induction of a Circle and a Coaxial Helix , .
199 expression for is applicable for all values of from to elliptic integral of the third kind is expressible by Legendre 's in tcrms of complete and incomplete integrals of the first second kind .
Thus , if we pnt have Elliptic Inlegrals ( F\mdash ; II ) .
ntegrals , complete and incomplete , may be conveniently by successive quadric nsformations , as shown iu Chap. XIII .
S10 .
the diameters of helix and circle , values given S8 , as ofessor Ayrbon and I made the calculation of by equation ( 6 ) with the following resnlts:\mdash ; 200 Prof. J. V. Jones .
alculation of the This result afforded a sufficiently satisfactory proof of the the calculations , seeing that the result in S 8 was obtained application of equa , tions ( 3 ) and ( 5 ) , and that it closely to the result just given .
The approximation wouId closer if we had taken account of the neglected terms of the and S 11 .
To find corresponding general expressions for the variation of with A , and it is simplest to revert expression We have ( putting ) , , ' where and have the same significations as in equation ( 6 ) .
Similarly Hence It is readily deducible from equations ( 7 ) that futual lof a Circle a has been calculated by ( 6 ) it is a matte ] the above tions . .
Then equations ( 7 ) ) ) .
the ) ) taken S 10 we lI 14.411370 , 907 , ' ( Ci ) Current and a ) } ) ( Shcet .
1Th liucs in the shect are in at to tho let lo lI10 linder being determined by I Let tbu tho ) and the currcnt .
unit ; and let the potential be 202 Prof. J. .
Jones .
Calcutation of ' the Coefficient of Then 01 .
a circle and coaxial helix we find the potential energy multiplying their coefficient of mutual induction by the , the currents in the circle and helix respectively .
Taking essiotl for the coefficient of mutual induction and expressed by equation ( 2 ) , and noting where is the current per unit length of the helix to the axis , we see } the potential energy of the circle coaxial helix is identically the same as the potential energ.y of circle and a coaxial circular current sheet of same radial and axial dimensions as the helix , if the currents nnit lcngth in helix and sheet be sam the Potential Energy of Helical and a Coaxial Circular Cylindrical Current Sheet .
S 13 .
If attempt to integrate the general expression for cient of mutual induction iu the case of two coaxial helices we brought face to face with functions which indeed deserve the of thematicians , but do not at present lend themselves lculation . .
many practical nurposes , however , it will be equally usefnl calculate the potential of a helix and a coaxial circular current sheet , or of two coaxial uniform cylindrical current sheets ; and this potential energy is in terms of elliptic integrals .
cquations to a rent 1 ) A A , il current across generating .
tho cqual to I to hclical .
J. , , 1898 .
Iutnal Induction Circland a C'oaxial Heli , .
203 imits of ) and , so that the axial length of tho et tbc equtions to a coaxial circumr cylindrical current sheet ends at nces x from the origin .
Let be the current in the helix , and let be the current per ullif ugth of uniform urrent .
Then if is the potential ergy of helical current tho CUl'rent sheet we have ' cabily reducible to elliptic iuteg1 als It is bs cd .
xial I of helix , and the axial length of the .
I , and if equals the distance between their . .
I I current sheets we have .
' unit the shc S 14 .
current a c1ll.t .
] we have to diff t to jicient ofInduction of a We httVC , if X is the force , X or by ion ( . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
cocflicient of mntual induction of tho helix and the circular ends of the sheet , of mutual induction of the helix othel circular end of the sheet .
and ] } be as describod in the previous of fhis S 15 .
ion ( 11 ) is lcarly case of a theoren ] .
Take any cyIindrical s developed by the rectilinear given closed , and let the sheet be the seab of a dislI cllrrc]l , the current Iines positions iven by its nslation it elopes the sheet .
Let per unit th eeb be .
Furbher , let be efficient of mutual induction of the given ctlrve in its first and any sccond fixed curve , and the coofficient of mutual of the given curve in its last position and the second curve ; be the current in the second Then the force ween the currcnt slJeet and the second resolved parallel to the direction of lranslabion of the given it pcfi t shect is given by the .
I of tion be taken as the axis of ; be the ) of mutual induction ot : the given any int } oqition delined by the co-ordinate , i.e. , nent of , and the second curYe .
Then the resve to the element of the current sheet and { ofal ) between tlJe current sheet Meeting of , 1898 .
As special cases , we equation ( 11 ) rsducing the calculation of force between a circular cylindrical uniform current sheet and a helical current to the calculation of the coefficients of mutual of the helix and the circular ends of the sheet ; and the of the force between a circulal* cylindrical uniform sheet and a circular current , which is obtained from the of the coefficients of mutual induction of the circle and circular ends of the sheet .
I hope that equation ( 11 ) may be of service in the accurate calcuof the constants of currsnt weighing apparatus .
My attention drawn to the matter from this point of view in consequence of Report of the Electrical ndards Committee of the British made at Toronto , in which mention is made of the of -determining the ampere .
March 31 , The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , iu the Chair .
Preliminary communications upon the results of the recent Solar clipse were made by the following members of the expeditiollS : The Astronomer Boyal , Sir J. Norman , K.C.B. , Professor .
H. Ttlrner , ) .
R. Copeland , and Captain E. H. Hills , R.E. , and .
H. F. Newall .
The Society adjourned over the Easter Recess to Thursday , pri128 .
* Professor A. Gray has pointed out to me that this result may bc deduced t1 the removal of an element from one end of sheet to her is equiv Ient to a small motion of the shect parallel to its generating lin es .
-J .
V. J. , , 1898 .
VOL. LX 11 I.

