A paper was read in part , entitled , " Observations taken on the Western Coast of North America .
" By the late Mr. Douglas ; with a report on his paper ; by Major Edward Sabine , R.A. , F.R.S. Communicated by the Right Honourable Lord Glenelg , one of His Majesty 's Principal Secretaries of State , F.R.S. , &amp;c. April 27 , 1837 .
FRANCIS BAILEY , Esq. , V.P. and Treas .
, in the Chair .
M. Antoine Cesar Becquerel , Professor C. G. Ehrenberg , Admiral A. J. Von Krusenstern , and the Chevalier C. F. Mirbel , were elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The reading of Mr. Douglas and Major Sabine 's paper , was re ?
sumed and concluded .
In the report prefixed to this paper , Major Sabine states , that Mr. Douglas was originallya gardener , and was , in the year 1833 , recommended by Sir Wiliiam Jackson Hooker to the late Mr. Joseph Sabine , who was then Secretary to the Horticultural Society of Lon ?
don , as a fit person to be empfoyed by the Society in selecting and bringing to England a collection of plants from the United States of America .
Having accomplished this mission to the complete satisfaction of his employers , hewas next engaged on an expedition having similar objects with the former , but embracinga much larger field ; namely , the tract of country extending from California to the highest latitude he might find it practicable to attain on the western side of the Rocky Mountains .
Anxious to render to geographical and physical science all the services in his power , and to avail himself for that purpose of every opportunity which his visiting these hitherto imperfectly explored regions might afford him , he now endeavoured by diligent application to supply the deficiencies of his previous education .
During the three months which preceded his departure from England , he studied with unremitting ardour and perseverance for no less than eighteen hours each day ; and , conquering every difficulty , acquired a competent knowledge of the principles of science , learned the uses of various instruments , and made himself thoroughly master of the methods of taking observations both at sea and on land .
The narrative proceeds to notice the arrival of Mr. Douglas in America , the progress of his undertaking , the loss of hiscollections and most of his books and papers , by the upsetting and dashing to pieces of the canoe in which he attempted to pass the rapids , and , lastly , his death in 1833 , at Owhyhee , in the Sandwich Islands , whither he had proceeded on his return to Europe .
The books which were preserved , and which have been received by Major Sabine , consist of several volumes of Lunar , Chronometrical , Magnetical , Meteorological and Geographical observations , together with a volume of field sketches .
The geographical observations of latitude and longitude refer to two distinct tracts of country ; first , the Columbia river , and its tributaries ; and the district to the westward of them : and , secondly , California .
Mr. Douglas very judiciously selected the junctions of rivers , and other well characterized natural points , as stations for geographical determination .
The papers containing the details of his magnetical inquiries comprise reeords of observation of the dip , and of the intensity , at various stations both in North America and in the Sand ?
wich Islands .

