538 On a Method of Obtaining Continuous Currents from a Magnetic Detector of the Self-Restoring Type .
By L. H. Walter , M.A. ( Communicated by Professor Ewing , F.R.S. Received March 28 , \#151 ; Read April 5 , 1906 .
) Magnetic detectors of electric waves can , for the purpose of considering their action , roughly be divided into two classes according as the magnetic mass or core to be acted upon by the electric oscillations set up in the receiving conductor upon the arrival of waves is situated outside the influence of the magnetising held at the time when such oscillations are acting , or is all the time in the magnetic field .
In the first case , the energy available as a result of the action of the oscillations is limited to that represented by the remanent magnetism in the core , while in the second case it can be derived in part , though not wholly , from the external field .
Detectors belonging to the first class have been designed which are capable of giving unidirectional currents\#151 ; practically continuously , as in the case of Fleming 's quantitative detector , * or intermittently , as unidirectional impulses , in Marconi 's more recent relay-operating detector .
Although no details have been published relating to the latter , a cursory inspection of the instrument exhibited at the Royal Institution in 1905 showed it to belong to this class .
Detectors of the second class , in which the magnetic mass is generally either taken through a slowly performed complete cycle of magnetism or else subjected to continuous reversals in a field of constant strength\#151 ; exemplified respectively in Marconi 's cyclic flux and moving band forms of detectors\#151 ; present other advantages , the chief among which are automatic action and the derivation of part of the energy from the externa ] field .
No method of obtaining a continuous current from such detectors has , however , hitherto been devised , such as could be used for rapid recording work , although Tissot has described an arrangement of Marconi 's cyclic flux detector by which indications were received on a ballistic galvanometer.f For this reason the use of these self-restoring detectors has up to the present been limited to telephonic reception , the alternating impulses produced as a result of the action of oscillations prohibiting the employment of a relay or recording instrument .
This drawback was pointed out by Marconi in his 1905 Royal Institution lecture .
* * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 71 , p. 398 , 1903 .
t ' Comptes Rendus/ vol. 136 , p. 361 , 1903 .
On a Method oj Obtaining Continuous , etc. 539 In view of the above it was considered that a description of a method by which the author has succeeded in obtaining continuous unidirectional currents from a detector of this type might prove of some interest .
The method was arrived at as a result of experiments in connection with an instrument previously described , * to determine the cause of the increase of hysteresis loss as a result of the action of oscillations .
It was found that the increase is due to a great extent if not entirely to the increase of induction produced , to which increased induction a largely augmented hysteresis loss corresponds at the field strength employed .
Working on this basis , it was thought that such an increase of induction might serve as a means of furnishing continuous unidirectional currents , by generating a unidirectional ( commuted ) E.M.F. , i.e. , by making conductors cut the lines of force in a magnetic field , and causing the oscillations to act upon a magnetic mass undergoing reversals of magnetism in the magnetic field of the generator , whereby the E.M.F. generated should be augmented ; a second , equal E.M.F. being opposed to the first , so that normally there is no external potential difference .
In such a case a continuous unidirectional current should be obtainable during the time that the oscillations are acting upon the magnetic mass .
An experimental apparatus was accordingly made , a diagrammatic plan of which is given in fig. 1 .
Two ebonite bobbins , BBi , mounted on the same spindle are rotated in the field of two horseshoe permanent magnets NS , N1S1 , these bobbins being wound , in a similar manner to those illustrated in connection with the pivoted bobbin detector previously referred to , with some feet of steel wire of suitable resistance .
A winding of two coils , W , W ' , at right angles to one another , of a hundred turns , is placed on each bobbin , at right angles to the plane of the steel wire winding , as in a drum armature , corresponding coils , i.e. , W and Wi , W ' and W'i , being connected in such a way that the E.M.F/ s generated are equal and opposite .
The ends of the windings are connected to the segments of a 4-part commutator C. ( For the sake of clearness only one pair of corresponding windings , of one turn each , is shown connected in fig. 1 .
) The steel wire windings of the two bobbins are exactly alike , the ends of one winding being insulated , while those of the other are connected to a pair of slip-rings , and brushes , by means of which the oscillations can be passed through the winding .
On testing this apparatus in the normal condition , with the armature driven by a small electric motor , and no oscillations acting , there was no potential difference at the brushes , the zero of a sensitive Ayrton-Mather * Walter and Ewing , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc.,5 vol. 73 , p. 120 , 1904 .
540 Mr. L. EL Walter .
On a Method of Obtaining [ Mar. 28 , galvanometer connected to the terminals TT remaining undisturbed .
On waves arriving , a steady deflection on the galvanometer was obtained , in a direction corresponding to an increase of E.M.F. generated by the armature ( bobbin ) acted upon by the oscillations .
On the oscillations ceasing the galvanometer deflection returned to zero .
The effect naturally was very small in the first experiments , but it has been found that by suitable designing the magnetic winding and proportioning the turns in the armature winding a quite considerable sensibility is obtained , and this is continually being improved upon .
The usual speed employed is about five to eight revolutions per second ; higher speeds have been tried and give a larger effect , but the zero is not so steady .
The model illustrated is not adapted to give the best results , this form having been chosen solely for convenience in construction .
A considerable length of the winding on the armature is " dead " wire , and hence in a new model being constructed the armatures resemble small Gramme ring structures , in which the wire is more effectively utilised .
The results obtained with the first form of the apparatus led to the idea that the magnetic mass might be located elsewhere in the magnetic circuit of M , such as at B in fig. 2 , undergoing slow continuous reversals at the most favourable speed , and an ordinary ring armature A be used , which latter could then be run at a much higher speed so that a proportionately greater external potential difference as a result of oscillations acting could be anticipated , two identical generators opposed to one another of course being employed as in the previous method .
The few experiments made in this direction have , however , not given good results up to the present , but this is considered to be due rather to 1906 .
] Continuous Currents from a Magnetic , etc. 541 the experimental apparatus employed than to the inapplicability of the method .
Fig. 2 .
Since in many cases it may be desirable to receive signals or indications simultaneously by means of a telephone as well as recording them , a telephonic receiver may be connected so as to take off the current produced as a result of such signals , at some point before it is commuted into unidirectional current , as the alternating current is better adapted for actuating the telephone .
When a relay alone has to be actuated , however , it may be advantageous to so arrange matters that the generated E.M.F. 's do not exactly balance , and a small initial current , insufficient to actuate the relay , passes all the time through it .
By this means the impulse resulting from the action of oscillations has only to supply little more than the current required to effect the actual movement of the relay tongue or coil , the steady current always passing being sufficient to almost start it from its position of rest .
The change can be rapidly effected by a very slight shift of the brushes .
While the author 's method of passing the oscillations directly through the magnetic winding leads to a very simple mechanical construction , there is nothing to prevent the older , more general method being made use of , in which they are passed through a separate copper wire winding on the outside of the magnetic core ( co-directional oscillations ) .
Since this paper was written the author has seen a proof of a paper giving the results of recent experiments by J. Bussell* on the effect of co-directional and of transverse electric oscillations on the magnetism of sheet iron .
These * ' Boy .
Soc. Edinburgh Proc. , ' vol. 26 , No. , 1 , 1905-6 .
Mr. R. Threlfall .
On a Static Method of [ Apr. 3 , results tend to show , if applied without discrimination , that the iron at the low field employed is more sensitive to the co-directional oscillations ; but the experimental conditions as regards the transverse oscillations , which latter are produced in a solid mass of metal , and hence are nearly entirely dissipated in the form of eddy currents , are so entirely different from the circular magnetisation obtained by the author 's method , in which the value of the magnetisation at the surface of the magnetic wire carrying the oscillations varies inversely as the radius of the wire , that a comparison cannot be made .
A combination of the two methods appears to offer additional advantages , but has not yet been tried .
On a Static Method of Comparing the Densities of Gases .
By Bichard Threlfall , M.A. , F.B.S. ( Beceived April 3 , \#151 ; Bead May 3 , 1906 .
) The measurement of small differences of pressure to a fairly high degree of accuracy is not difficult .
I have indicated a construction of a micromanometer* which in its ordinary commercial form has a range of 3 or 4 cm .
of height of a liquid column and reads to OOOo mm. direct .
Dr. Stantonf describes a manometer constructed on Professor Chattock 's principle , having a reading sensitiveness of 0-0015 mm. of water , but the range is not stated .
Lord Bayleigh , observing the contact between mercury surfaces and sharp points , obtained a sensitiveness of 0'0005 mm. of mercury with a range of about 15 mm4 The idea of employing the micro-manometer for the determination of the relative densities of gases first occurred to me in 1901 in considering the corrections to a set of Pitot tube observations taken in a gas pipe situated some 20 feet above the manometer , and though a rough trial was carried out at the time it is only recently that I have had an opportunity of making an adequate test of the method .
Beferring to the figure , Ai A2 are the two limbs of the micro-manometer\#151 ; the liquid ( coloured water or oil ) being in communication by the syphon B. The gases whose densities are to be compared are allowed to pass into the long tubes Ci and C2 , through the openings at Di and D2 , where there are * ' Inst , of Meehan .
Engine .
Proc. , ' February , 1904 , p. 273 .
t Minutes of 'Inst , of Meehan .
Engine .
Proc. , ' vol. 156 , session 1903\#151 ; 1904 , part 2 .
f ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 196 ( 1901 ) , p. 205 .

