nomy .
" By J. W. Lubbock , Esq. V.P. and Treasurer of the Royal Society .
The first part of this paper relates to the theory of the moon .
The method of solution pursued by Clairaut consisted in the inte ?
gration of differential equations , in which the true longitude of the moon is the independent variable : the time is then obtained in terms of the true longitude ; and by the reversion of series , the lon ?
gitude afterwards obtained in terms of the time .
This method is the one adopted by Mayer , Laplace , and Damoiseau .
The author has been led , by reflecting on the difficulties of this problem , to believe that the integration of the differential equations in which the time is the independent variable would be at least as easy as the former process ; and it would possess the advantage of employing the same system of equations for the moon as for the planets .
The lunar theory proposed by the author , and developed in this paper , is an extension of the equations given in his former Researches in Physical Astronomy , already published in the Philosophical Transactions ; by including those terms , which , in consequence of the great eccentricity of the moon 's orbit , are sensible ; and by suppressing those which are insensible from the great distance of the sun , the disturbing body .
He has not yet attempted to obtain numerical results , but proposes at some future time to engage in their computation .
In the second part of the paper , he investigates the precession of the equinoxes , on the supposition that the earth revolves in a resisting medium ; an investigation which may also be considered as a sequel to the author 's last paper on Physical Astronomy .
The effects of the resistance of such a medium is to increase the latitude of the axis of rotation ( reckoned from the equator of the figure ) till it reaches 90 ? .
Such is now the condition of the axis of the earth : but as the chances are infinitely great against this having been its original position , may not its attainment of this position be ascribed to the resistance of a medium of small density acting for a great length of time , ?
a supposition which may account for many geological indications of changes having taken place in the climates of the earth ?
The operation of such a cause would be also sen ?
sible in the case of comets : and the accuracy with which the ec ?
centricity of the Halleian comet of 1759 is known , would appear to afford a favourable opportunity of verifying this hypothesis .

