150 Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell .
Action of Heat [ June 15 , X 4769 , X 4634 , X4507 , X4412 , X 4253 .
Professor A. Herschel and Dr. von Konkoly pointed out long ago that the spectra of periodic meteors belonging to different swarms differ from each other , and the meteorites which come down to ns differ greatly in their chemical constitution .
It is not surprising to find the matter of the nucleus of this comet to exhibit a chemical difference from that of other comets .
In the diagram , the width of the continuous spectrum corresponds to the diameter of the nucleus .
The bright bands extend into the coma on the side next the sun .
XVI .
" On the Action of Heat upon the Contagium in the two forms of Septichsemia known respectively as ' Davaine 's ' and ' Pasteur 's .
' " By G. F. Dowdeswell , M. A. ( Cantab .
) , F.L.S. , F.C.S. , \amp ; c. Communicated by J. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received June 15 , 1882 .
Professor Rosenberger , of Wurzburg , has recently published the results of experiments , * by which he claims to have effectually sterilised by heat , the blood and exudation fluids of the rabbit in the two forms of septichsemia , known as those of Davaine and Pasteur .
and he states that these fluids so sterilised , upon injection into other animals , were found to be infective , reproducing the disease with the recurrence of the specific organisms which characterise it : he therefore regards these organisms as having no causal connexion with the affections in which they are found , but as merely secondary or epiphenomenal .
That this would be the necessary deduction from the experiments mentioned , if it were proved that the fluids had been effectively sterilised , is obvious ; but the account published contains no details whatever of the methods employed , nor protocol of the experiments , so that it is impossible either to discuss them or to form a judgment as to the correctness of the conclusions .
They , however , involve a question so important in respect to the theory of contagium vivum\#151 ; the relations of these micro-organisms to disease\#151 ; that it was determined to work out the subject on the basis indicated in Professor Rosenberger 's paper , adopting such methods and precautions as appeared necessary .
* " Centralb .
f. d. Med. Wiss .
" 1882 , No. 4 , pp. 65-69 .
J 2g82 ] upon Contagium in two Forms of * 151 I Fabt I.__Experiments upon Pasteur 's in the Guinea-Pig .
Guinea-pig No. 1.\#151 ; 07 cub. centim. of putrid ox-blood was injected with a Pravart 's syringe , into the peritoneal cavity of a full-grown guinea-pig , which the next morning was found recently dead , rigor not having set in : round the place of injection there was some subcutaneous exudation , with destructive inflammation of the tissues of I the abdominal wall , sections of which showed numerous Bacilli and | Micrococci in the layers of connective tissue between the museles .
Acute peritonitis was found with a large exudation of serous fluid containing some extravasated blood-corpuscles , and deeply stained with their colouring matter .
The fluid in this case was not very coagulable , differing in this respect from some others .
The same day .0'5 cub. centim. of the peritoneal exudation fluid of No. 1 was injected into the subcutaneous tissue of the abdomen of guinea-pig No. 2 , which , as the following day was Sunday , was not examined till Monday morning , when it was found dead , and in a much more advanced stage of decomposition than would have occurred normally in the same period .
In all forms of septichmmia this rapid decomposition is invariably found .
Guinea-pig No. 3 then received in similar manner 0'5 cub. centim. of the diluted subcutaneous exudation fluid of No. 2 , which , likewise , was not coagulated .
On the following morning No. 3 was found dead but still warm ; the abdomen was infiltrated with a large quantity of subcutaneous exudation fluid , deeply stained with haemoglobin , and containing some extravasated blood-corpuscles , as well as numerous active Bacilli and some Micrococci or spores .
The serous fluid was not very coagulable ; of this a portion was mixed with equal parts of normal saline solution , freshly made and boiled , containing in addition 1 per cent , of potassic carbonate , to render the serum alkaline and prevent coagulation upon boiling , which it did effectually .
Vacuum tubes of about 10 millims. diameter and 10 centims. long , previously prepared , were then partially filled with this liquid by breaking their points under its surface ; these were then placed one by one in a small flask of salt solution , to avoid frothing and splashing ; this was then heated , and when the liquid was boiling freely , the tube enclosing it was resealed by the blow-pipe .
The tubes were then placed in the hot air chamber , the temperature of which was gradually raised to 140 ' C- , and maintained at nearly that point for one hour .
No coagulation \#166 ; occurred upon heating , but it was found in subsequent experiments , that , inasmuch as the degree of dilution and alkalinity required to prevent this , varied in different cases , both with exudation serum and with blood , it was necessary in every instance to determine this point -experimentally .
The same evening guinea-pig No. 4 received by subcutaneous injection 0'3 cub. centim. of the exudation fluid of 152 Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell .
Action of Heat [ June 15 No. 3 , diluted and prepared as above mentioned , but unbeated , while guinea-pig No. 5 received in similar manner 03 cub. centim. of the same fluid superheated and cooled .
The following day , twenty-five hours after injection , No. 4 was prostrate , in a state of collapse , and the next morning was found dead with the same symptoms and microorganisms as in previous cases , while No. 5 was quite unaffected , feeding heartily and with temperature unaltered .
This animal remained healthy and unaffected for some days , and subsequently died from an accidental cause .
On examination no symptoms whatever were found , either of septichsemia or peritonitis ; there was no-exudation of any sort and the blood was free from organisms .
The following day the exudation fluid of No. 4 was diluted and rendered alkaline in the same manner as in the previous experiments , enclosed in tubes and superheated as before ; of this TO cub. centim. was-injected into the subcutaneous tissue of guinea-pig No. 6 , which , notwithstanding the large quantity it received , remained totally unaffected and was ultimately killed .
Some cultivation experiments were then made in different nutrient fluids , both with the sterilised and the unsterilised exudation serum , the result was that in all cases excepting one , in which there was reason to believe that the result was due to accidental contamination , no development of organisms occurred with the sterilised fluid , which it invariably did with the unsterilised !
In the septichaemia of Pasteur , the characteristic organism is a Bacillus , somewhat similar morphologically to the JB .
, and one of the forms of the hay Bacillus , JB .
of Cohn , the ubiquitous organism which developes so readily and constantly in most organic-infusions , from atmospheric or other contamination , and until the specific morphological characters of these organisms are better discriminated than they are at present , that is probably until there is-a further substantial advance in our optical appliances , it is scarcely safe to draw any conclusion from their occurrence in cultivations , ^ unless these are numerous and repeated , with rigorous control experiments .
In this case , i.e. , Pasteur 's septichsemia , or the malignant oedema of Koch , in the guinea-pig , I have invariably found both in this , as in other series of experiments , that in animals examined immediately upon death there are none of the specific organisms ( the Bacillus described , \#151 ; which is so large that it can scarcely be overlooked ) to be found in the blood , or in any of the organs of the infected animal , and that the blood is not infective .
After death , however , they speedily invade the organs of the animal , the kidneys and the spleen , being apparently the first attacked ; hence the necessity in all these cases of examining the subject immediately after death .
1882 .
] uponContagium in two Forms of 153 pAET lx , \#151 ; Experiments upon the blood of Babbits in the form of Septichcemia Tcnown as that of This form of septichsemia in the rabbit , which has attracted so mUch attention , and been the subject of so many experiments since those first published by Davaine and by MM .
Coze and Feltz , m 1869 is originated by the subcutaneous injection of a small quantity __a few drops\#151 ; of putrid blood , usually that of the ox .
Infection with the specific disease in this case , as in the parallel one of septichsemia in the mouse , is somewhat uncertain , and the law on which it depends has not been clearly determined .
Usually , however , blood which is only a few days old , \#151 ; three or four\#151 ; is , as originally stated by Davaine , the most readily infective , but by no means constantly so .
In the following experiments all the rabbits employed were young , , and nearly of the same age and size , not quite full grown .
The septichsemic blood used for injection was always diluted , generally with an equal bulk of freshly prepared and boiled normal saline solution ; the quantities of blood given as injected , unless otherwise stated , are always those of the blood itself which was used , and not of the solution .
2.\#151 ; 02 cub. centim. of putrid ox-blood some days old was injected into the subcutaneous tissue of the back of rabbit No. 1 .
In forty-eight hours afterwards the rectal temperature was found to be 106 ' F. , and the animal died on the third day .
In the blood from the heart , examined immediately after death , a few of the organisms characteristic of the disease* were found , and preparations made and stained by the Weigert Koch method , gave the same result .
Two hours after death 0*1 cub. centim. of the blood of No. 1 was injected into rabbit No. 2 .
Twenty hours afterwards the rectal temperature* was 104 ' F. , and the animal expired in my presence twenty-three hours after injection .
Section was made almost immediately , within about five minutes after death , hut the blood was found already partially coagulated in the cavities of the heart and in the vessels .
The blood which remained fluid was quickly mixed with two parts normal saline solution , with the addition of 3 per cent. pot .
carb. , and 0 3 cub. centim. of this solution ( =0'1 cub. centim. blood ) was injected into the subcutaneous tissue of rabbit No. 3 , which died just within twenty hours after injection .
A portion of the dilute alkaline blood was then placed in tubes , by breaking their points , sealed at a red heat , underneath the fluid ; they were then immersed in a small flask of saline solution , sealed while boiling , and placed in the hot air oven , , the temperature of which was gradually raised to 140 ' C. , and slowly * These are fully described in the forthcoming number ( for June , 1882 ) of the- " Joum .
Royal Micros .
Society .
" Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell .
Action of Heat [ June 15 , cooled ; it was maintained at a temperature of over 100 ' C. for upwards of one hour .
It being then late in the evening , rabbit No. 4 was on the next morning injected with a Pravart 's syringe full of the dilute superheated blood .
This animal survived and was but slightly , if at all affected , notwithstanding the very large quantity of fluid injected .
The following day there was no appreciable disturbance whatever , but on the third day slight pyrexia occurred , the animal 's skin felt hot to the touch , and the rectal temperature rose to 100*0 ' F. , which , however , sometimes occurs normally in rabbits kept in confinement .
Subsequently , it remained totally unaffected for several days , as long as observed , and was then destroyed .
Some days afterwards , the blood of another rabbit of a subsequent generation of the same infection , immediately upon death , was mixed with two parts normal saline solution , and 2 per cent. pot .
carb. , this was inclosed in tubes , boiled , sealed , and heated to 120 ' C. , in sthe same manner as before .
Of the alkaline dilute blood ( unheated ) further diluted up to 100,000,000 times , 0*6 cub. centim. ( =*000000006 cub. centim. of blood ) was injected into the back of rabbit E , which died of septi-chsemia within twenty hours .
Of the dilute superheated blood , 0*6 cub. centim. ( =0*2 cub. centim. blood ) was injected into rabbit F , which the next day was apparently unaffected , but died with the usual symptoms of septichsemia the following day , i.e. , thirty-nine hours after injection .
In the blood were found the characteristic Bacteria , and it proved to be infective when injected in a small quantity into another rabbit .
Upon this , the .same day , a further portion of the same superheated dilute alkaline blood was injected in the same quantity ( 0*6 cub. centim. ) into rabbit G. This rabbit remained totally unaffected , and survived as , long as observed , twenty days after , although it had received upwards .
of 30,000,000 times the quantity of blood which had proved lethal to rabbit E within twenty hours .
Cultivation experiments have been made both with the superheated blood and with that in the natural state , taken upon death ; but as it was found that the Bacterium which occurs in these cases refuses to .
germinate in any of the various cultivating media employed , excepting only in the serum of ox-blood , and in that very sparsely and uncertainly , they were inconclusive ; and the greater part of the .
cultivating glasses inoculated with blood of both sorts , after being kept several days in the incubator at temperatures between 30 ' and 40 ' C. , unstable as the solutions are , remain to this day\#151 ; a month subsequently\#151 ; perfectly pellucid and unaltered , save from some loss by \#166 ; evaporation .
On considering these results , it appeared possible that , in the case .where the superheated blood proved infective , from the method of 1882 ] upon Contagium in two Forms of 155 filling the vacuum tubes , portions of the dilute blood drying on their sides , might have escaped perfect sterilisation by heat ; it was therefore determined to repeat the experiments -with tubes filled by a method which should avoid this possible source of error .
Tubes were made of thick German glass , about 3 inch internal diameter , closed at one end and slightly drawn out three or four inches from the bottom ; then the blood of rabbit H , which died in my presence , of transmitted infection , was immediately collected and mixed with three times its bulk of normal saline solution with the addition of 3 per cent , potassic carbonate .
In this instance it was found that a less degree of either alkalinity or dilution would not prevent coagulation on heating .
Of this blood further diluted up to the ten-thousandth degree , 0*6 cub. centim. ( =*00006 cub. centim. of the unmixed blood ) was injected into the back of rabbit I , which died of septichsemia in twenty-seven hours ; the characteristic organisms were found in the blood , which on inoculation into another rabbit proved to be infective .
A portion of the same alkaline dilute blood was then placed in the tubes above-mentioned , 2 to 3 cub. centims. in each , by means of a capillary pipette introduced to the bottom , contamination of the sides being avoided ; the tubes were then drawn out by the blow-pipe to a capillary point , boiled in salt solution and sealed while boiling .
One tube that was heated separately to 140 ' C. burst , as had been the case in several other experiments previously ; the remainder were thereupon heated to fully 100 ' C. for six hours , when the temperature was raised to 130 ' 0 .
, were maintained at that for one hour , and then gradually cooled .
Of this dilute superheated blood , rabbit K received by subcutaneous injection in the back 0*6 cub. centim. ( =0*15 cub. centim. blood ) , and rabbit L received 1*1 cub. centim. of the same ( =0*275 cub. centim. blood ) , that is nearly five thousand times as much as rabbit I had received of the unheated blood .
Both these rabbits K and L were unaffected in any manner whatever : there was no appreciable variation of the rectal temperature ; they continued to feed well , and did not lose flesh .
They were killed ten days subsequently ; and no material inflammation at or around the place of injection , and no thickening whatever of the tissues which occurs so markedly in all cases of infection could be observed ; there was only a slight stain , as if by the colouring matter of the blood , in the subcutaneous tissue near the spot of injection .
From the result of these experiments I conclude that the active virus of infection , both in the case of Pasteur 's septichsemia\#151 ; the malignant oedema of Koch\#151 ; in guinea-pigs , and in Davaine 's septichsemia in rabbits , is destroyed by the prolonged action of a sufficiently high temperature ; that blood or exudation fluid so treated is not infective , nor in any appreciable manner toxical , when injected in moderate quantities ( up to 1 cub. centim. ) into other healthy E. Nunn .
On the Development of [ June 15 animals , while the same fluids unheated , are invariably and fatally infective in infinitely smaller quantities .
In Davaine 's septichaemia in the rabbit , I have found throughout these experiments that the period of incubation is remarkably constant death , after the fii'st generation of infection by putrid blood , almost invariably occurring from about twenty to twenty-five hours , and consequently that if it does not occur within about that period , it may be concluded that infection has failed ; it may die subsequently , as rabbits in confinement constantly do , more especially under the conditions in which they are kept in laboratories ; but unless within about the period specified they do not die infected with specific septichsemia , the characteristic organisms are not found in the blood , nor is that blood infective ; hence it is not necessary to observe such animals for more than a few days after inoculation .
These experiments were conducted in the laboratory at University College , with the co-operation of Dr. Burdon Sanderson , and at his suggestion .
XVII .
" On the Development of the Enamel of the Teeth of Vertebrates .
" By Emily Nunn .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , F.R.S. Received June 14 , 1882 .
[ Pl/ ATES 2-4 .
] The question of the origin of the enamel of the teeth in vertebrate animals has been the subject of much discussion .
It has been held\#151 ; 1st , that the enamel results from the calcification of the enamel cells ( Tomes , Waldeyer , Edwards ) ; 2nd , that it is formed by excretion from those cells ( Kolliker , Hertwig , Leydig ) ; and , 3rd , that it is not formed by these cells at all , but has the same origin as the dentine , whatever that may be.* Again , there are numerous opinions concerning the nature and origin of the cuticula dentis:\#151 ; 1 , that the cuticula is the persistent basement membrane itself ( Huxley , Hertwig , Leydig ) ; 2 , that it is the altered enamel membrane ; 3 , that it is the external layer of cells of the enamel organ ( W aldeyer ) ; 4 , that it is the metamorphosed stratum intermedium of the enamel organ ( Lowe ) ; 5 , that it is the ends ( Decheln ) of the cells of the enamel membrane ( Kollman ) ; 6 , that it is a dermic structure ( Tomes ) ; 7 , that it is an excretion of the cells of the enamel membrane ( Kolliker ) .
* Huxley , " Tegumentary Organs , " " Encyclopaedia of Anat .
and Phys. , " vol. vr Sup .
, gives reasons for considering the whole tooth ecderonic , but adds , " All these points can only be decided by a much more extensive series of investigations .
"

