]\gt ; On the Force Exerted on a gnetic Particle by Varying Electric Field .
By J. G. LEATHEM , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Sir J. Larmor , F.R.S. Received May 21 , \mdash ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) With a view to explaining netism as a purely electrical phenomenon it is customary in the modern theory of electromagnetism to define force a solenoidal vector whose curl is 4 times the electric current , and the magnetisation of a material element as half the moment of the motion of electricity in the element .
* But it is clear that the definitions remain unjustified until it has been shown that the relations of these quantities to one another and to the quantities of the theoretical formulation are the same as the relations which experience indicates ils subsisting between the corresponding physical.quantities .
lt is , therefore , an essential part of the test of the theory to ascertain the theoretical value of the force exel.ted by a external field upon a etic particle .
The particle is supposed to contain , whether continuously or discretely distributed it is not necessary at the moment to specify .
This charge is supposed to be in motion relative to the particle , and the force exerted on the particle by the electromagnetic field is simply the resultant of the forces which the field exerts on the electric charge .
Let denote the velocity of an origin situated in the particle and moving with it , and let an element of electric charge de to the particle have co-ordinates referred to non-rotating axes with as origin .
Then the velocity of has components , and may be denoted by external field is specified by the magnetic intensity , and the ethereal displacement .
If these letters wiClwut suffix denote the values at , the value at is derived by means of the operator of Taylor 's expansion , namely In terms of the netic system of units the force on an element of is *Cf .
H. A. Lorentz , ' Encyk .
der Math. Wiss vol. , 2 , p. 181 ; and Larmor , ' fther and Matter , ' S64 .
Dr. J. G. Leathem .
Force Exerted on where is the velocity of light , and the square bracket denotes the vectorproduct .
Consequently the resultant force on the particle is the integral being extended to all the charges in the particle .
Here the exponential operator applies only to the components of and ; it will , of course , be expanded , and all but the earlier terms will be considered negligible .
The following notation is convenient:\mdash ; , .
Here is the algebraic total of the particle , are the components of its electric polarisation , while the 's are analogous to moments and products of inertia and may be called the ' second electric moments ' of the particle .
If we assume that the second moments are so small as to be negligible we get Now the components of netisation m , are defined by the relations ; and we note further that ; hence with other similar equalities .
Accordingly terms involving time-fluxes of the This formula is general .
With a view to considering a purely magnetic agnetic Particle by a Varying Electric Field .
particle we may suppose that the total charge is zero , and that there is no electric polarisation , so that the first term of is zero .
Let us further suppose that there is such permanence in the configuration average configuration of electric in the particle that there is a set of axes ( possibly rotating , provided the rotation be not extremely rapid ) , with as origin , with respect to which the second electric moments are constant , or have constant average values .
When this holds the time-fluxes of the 's are either zero or ( for rotating axes ) small of the same order of smallness as the 's themselves , and so may be neglected .
Thus , for a purely magnetic particle , , or , vectorially , The first term of is the ordinary formula for the force exerted on a magnetic particle , regarded as a polarised combination of positive and egative magnetism , by a field of magnetic force .
The second term is rather unexpected ; it represents a mechanical force exerted on a magnet by a current of ethereal displacement , perpendicular to the current and to the magnetic moment , and proportional to the product of the two and the sine of the between them .
If experimental evidence were definitely against the existence of such a force the theory would be at fault .
It might seem possible to test the matter by a small horizontally between the ho1izontal plates of a charged condenser and then effecting a non-oscillatory discharge of the condenser .
If the upper plate were originally charged with positive electricity , the displacement current on discharge would be upwards , and an eastward impulse on the magnet might be looked for .
But when it is remembered that the formula is in terms of units it will be seen that the charge on the condenser required to impart sensible motion to the magnet would probably VOL. LXXXIX.\mdash ; A. Dr. J. G. Leathem .
Force Exerted on be enormously great .
Thus an experimental test may well be out of the question .
* With regard to the hypothesis of the exact or average constancy of the values of the second electric moments of a magnetic particle , it is to be remarked that exact permanence of configuration in a whirling distribution of electricity is to be looked for only when the rotation is entirely about one axis round which the distribution is circularly symmetrical .
This does not seem to be a probable state of affairs in a magnetic particle .
On the other hand an average permanence of configuration may be claimed to exist for quite a complicated system of orbital motions of separate electrons proyided the geometrical configuration of the orbits be permanent .
All that is required for permanence of the average electric configuration is that the time-average be taken for an interval of time which is great compared with all the periods that the various electrons take to describe their respective orbits , or , if one orbit be described by several electrons , the interval between successive recurrences of the same electric configuration in that orbit .
If the velocities in the orbits are very great only a very minute interval of time need be taken in order to get constant timeaverages .
In the case of a magnetic particle possessing as a whole a rotatory motion of not very great rapidity the permanence of the timeaverages of the second moments would be with respect to moving axes .
It is indeed conceivable that the duration of any obtainable displacement current might be too short to permit the substitution of time-averages for a more accurate tracing of the changes in the configuration of charge in a single particle ; in the case , however , of a magnet made up of a large number of particles any resultanl effect would correspond to an average for all the particles , in which the fortuitous character of the instantaneous circumstances for a single particle would be obliterated by force of numbers and the probably quite irregular distribution of phase .
Sir Joseph Larrnor , to whom the writer is indebted for suggestions and criticisms , suggests as interesting the following aspect of the supplementary term in the above hypothetical expression for the force on a magnetic rticle : If a magnet were merely a whirling distribution of electncity then the forces acting on a region of it ought , like those on any other distribution of electricity , to be expressible as the result of a quasi-stress over the boundary and a quasi-momentum in the region .
But the commonly assumed forces Another possible difficulty is that the displacement current might alter the state of magnetisation , so that would be a function of and D. In so far as this held good the result would be uncertain .
Magnetic Particle by Varying Etectric Field .
on a medium of magnetic quality are not so expressible ; * consequently the force on a whirl of electricity is not completely expressed by the usual formula of magnetic type in terms of its equivalent magnetic moment .
The addition of the above obtained subsidiary term of much smaller order is just what is needed to restore the possibility of a stress-momentum specification .
The term being too small for any tht to be thrown upon its existence by direct experiment , there is no reason for excluding it ; if we postulate the universality of the stress-momentum representation we must retain it .
For the sake of completeness it may be mentioned that , to the degree of approximation above contemplated , the torque on a particle is terms involving time-fluxes of the second electric moments .
The part of this applicable to a purely magnetic particle is the same as is got from ordinary magnetic theory .
It is to be noted that the expressions here discussed refer only to the action of an external field on a particle .
They do not include the action upon an electron of its own field or of the field due to other belonging to the same particle .
Thus radiation and netic inertia do not enter into the discussion .
' Phil. Trans , 189 vol. 190 , S39 .

