II .
" c Microscopical characters of the rhythmically contractile gMuscular Coat of the Veins of the Bat 's Wing , of the Lymphatic Hearts of the Frog , and of the Caudal Heart of the Eel .
In Three Parts.-Part I. Mlicroscopical characters of the rhythmically contractile Muscular Coat of the Veins of the Web of the Bat 's Wing .
" By THOMAS WHARTON JONES , F.R.S. , Professor of Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery in University College , &amp;c. Received April 8 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) This is Part I. , of a series of three , of a paper on the microscopical characters of rhythmically contractile muscular tissue , other than that of the blood-heart .
It comprises a reexamination of the microscopical characters of the rFythmically contractile muscular coat of the veins of the bat 's wing , and is offered by the author as Appendix No. 3 to his paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1852 , entitled " Discovery that the veins of the Bat 's Wing ( which are furnished with valves ) are endowed with rhythmical contractility , and that the onward flow of the blood is accelerated by each contraction .
" This reexamination supplies additional details , illustrated by more correct figures , confirmatory of the author 's previous description of the microscopical characters of the muscular coat of the veins of the bat 's wing .
The author examines also , by way of comparison , the tonically contractile muscular coat of the arteries , and points out that , though the fibrils of the muscular coat of the veins do not present transverse markings , they differ in their microscopical characters as much from the fibrils of the muscular coat of the arteries , as the transversely striped muscular fibrils of the bat 's heart do from them .
He insists , therefore , in conclusion , that there are no grounds for an implied physiological form of the doctrine of isomerism , viz. similarity of structure , with different endowments .
Part II .
" Microscopical characters of the rhythmically contractile Muscular Coat of the Lymphatic Hearts of the Frog .
" Received April 13 , 1868 .
The author , in this second part of his paper , first calls attention to the fact that , on viewing the anterior lymphatic heart from the front , after dissecting down upon it from the back , he sometimes found its cavity filled with air or blood .
The way by which the air or blood had entered 34 he considers to have been through the lymph-spaces opened into in the course of the dissection ; and the mode of entrance he considers to have been by suction during diastole of the heart .
The sucking action , by which the heart thus draws air or blood into its cavity when the lymph-spaces are cut into , must operate , according to his view , as a means of promoting the flow of lymph in the natural state .
After describing the mechanism of the process , the author examines the microscopical characters of the proper muscular tissue composing the wall of the lymphatic heart .
The result of his observations on this point is , that the muscular tissue of the lymphatic hearts of the frog is similar to that of the veins of the bat 's wing , as regards both its granular semitransparent aspect and the breadth of its fibrillations , whilst it differs from the muscular tissue of the blood-heart of the animal in being destitute of transverse markings .
Part III .
" Microscopical characters of the rhythmically contractile Miuscular Coat of the Caudal Heart of the Eel .
" Received April 21 , 1868 .
The caudal heart of the eel lies in a kind of framework on the abdominal aspect of the extreme end of the vertebral column .
The body of the last caudal vertebra forms the dorsal side of this framework , and a ridge of bone , extending along its concave abdominal aspect , must project into the caudal heart , partially dividing it into right and left compartments .
The caudal heart of the eel would thus appear to represent the two caudal sinuses of certain other fishes run into one .
From the manner in which the caudal heart is connected with the surrounding structures of the tail , its movements are communicated to them as described in the author 's paper , entitled c"The Caudal HI-eart of the Eel , a Lymphatic Heart , " &amp;c. By the elastic recoil of the structures , on the other hand , the cavity of the heart is drawn into a state of dilatation ; and the result must be , as in the analogous case of the anterior lymphatic hearts of the frog , that lymph will be forced into the heart from the adjacent lymphatic vessels or spaces .
The muscular fibres composing the walls of the caudal heart resemble in shape the sheathed primitive fasciculi of the muscles of the skeleton , but are only half as broad , and they are not transversely striped .
They have a granular aspect , and on close examination are found to be a fasciculus of fibrils 1-Q of an inch broad , contained in a delicate structureless 10,000 sheath .
These fibrils resemble the fibrils of the muscular coat of the veins of the bat 's wing , and of the muscular coat of the lymphatic hearts of the frog , and may be grouped , the author thinks , together with them under a common head , viz. unstriped rhythmically contractile muscular ibrils .
843

