EGGS\#151 ; H. SAUNDERS .
Eggs.\#151 ; By Howard Saun , , F.Z.S. Chionis minor , FLartl .
( Lesser Sheathbill .
) The general character of 19 eggs is a dirty white ground , splashed and blotched with brown .
At the first glance there is a startling superficial resemblance in coloration , and sometimes in shape , to a very common dark form of the egg of the Razorbill ( Alcatorda ) ; other specimens are in shape and markings like boldly blotched examples of eggs of the ( Edicnemus group of Plovers .
On shining them to the light , the eggs show a green membranous lining .
Unfortunately the egg of the other species Chionis alba ( Cm .
) , of the Ealkland Islands , is not known , for Capt. Abbott , who wrote an account of the birds of the Ealklands ( Ibis 18 ) , did not obtain , it , and the statements made to him by the sealers as to its egg being white , must be received with doubt .
The first eggs were obtained on 23rd Dec. , and in stating that none were found by Mr. Eaton until 10th January , the American Naturalist , Ur .
Kidder , must have been labouring under an error .
The complement of eggs seems to be one or two , and rarely three .
The average dimensions of the egg are 2*2 in .
X 1*5 in .
Querquedula eatoni , Sharpe .
Thirty eggs of this species present remarkable variation , the general hue being of a pale green or greenish buff .
Laying appears to commence early in December .
The average dimensions are 2 in .
x l'l in .
Larus dominicanus , Licht .
Thirty eggs of this bird present the usual characters of the eggs of the larger species of Gulls , being of various shades of olive-green , ranging to stone-colour , and occasionally brown , spotted and blotched with darker shades of brown and streaks of black .
Eggs of this species in my collection from the Crozettes , and from the Ealkland Islands present precisely similar characters .
The first egg was obtained on 11th October ; the complement is three , as is usual with Gulls .
Average dimensions , 2*85 in .
X 1*9 in .
Stercorarius antarcticus , Lesson .
In five eggs of this species , three taken about the middle of November are of a pale olive-green indistinctly blotched with brown , and two others , obtained on 8th December , apparently from the same nest , as that is the usual complement , are of a brownish buff ground with rather holder markings .
Although slightly larger than the eggs of Ster cor arms catarractes , the representative species of the Northern Hemisphere , there is no noticeable difference in character .
Length 3 in .
, breadth 21 in .
Sterna virgata , Eight eggs of this species are of an olive colour blotched with black , the marks tending to form a zone .
They do not differ much from eggs of typical , hut there is a tendency to greenish , and an absence of the white in the ground colour , which approximates them to eggs of S. antarctica of New Zealand , the near ally of this species , the eggs of -which , so far as I may venture to judge from only two specimens , average somewhat less .
It appears to lay hut one egg , on the terraces on the sea-side hills , commencing towards the end of November .
The dimensions are 1*75 in .
X 1*2 in .
Pelecanoides urinatrix , Gm .
Ten eggs are all pure white , except where peat-stained , nearly equal at each end , or hut very slightly pointed .
Dimensions , 1*5 in .
X 1*1 in .
Majaqueus sequinoctialis , Linn. Twelve eggs of a pure white colour ( except where the granulations of the shell are filled up with the yellowish dirt from the burrows where they are deposited ) have a more repulsively musky smell than any other eggs of the group .
Length 3*2 in .
, breadth 2*1 in .
iEstrelata brevirostris , Two eggs of this species , badly cracked owing to their fragile texture , are of a pure dull white , nearly ovoidal in shape , and measure 2*15 in .
X 1*7 in .
iEstrelata lessoni , Eleven eggs of this species , of the characteristic dead white colour , have somewhat less of the musky smell than those of most of the burrowing Petrels .
Length 2*75 in .
, breadth 1*85 in .
Slightly pointed at smaller end .
Procellaria oceanica , Kuhl .
Nine eggs average 1*3 in.x*9 in .
, and are of a dull white colour , with minute purple-red spots which generally form a zone , usually , although not invariably , at the larger end ; they are however at times distributed sparingly over the whole surface .
There is not much difference between the shape of either end .
EGGS.\#151 ; H. SAUNDERS .
Prion desolatus .
Six eggs of the same character and texture as the preceding species , and distinguished by their greater length in proportion to breadth , the average of the former being 1*8 in ; nearly as much as in , whilst the breadth is only 1*3 in .
Halobaena ccerulea , Gm .
There are ten specimens in the collection , of the rough granulated texture , blunt ends torn , and dead-white colour , characteristic of the eggs of this family .
There is no sign of a zone of rust-coloured markings , but there is the usual musky smell about the shell .
They vary in dimensions a good deal , and as from the delicate nature of the shell , several specimens are total wrecks , it is not easy to take an exact average , but I am inclined to think that one of the above eggs belongs to the former species .
1*9 in .
in length , and 1*5 in .
in breadth , is tolerably close .
The single egg is laid as early as 23rd October , onwards .
Diomedea fuliginosa , Gm .
There are two examples of this egg ; white , spotted towards the larger end , so as to form a zone , with minute reddish marks .
The egg is long in proportion to its breadth , being 4 in .
X 2*65 in .
Phalacrocorax verrucosus , Cab .
The six eggs are of the usual pale greenish blue , with the chalky incrustations characteristic of those of the Cormorant family .
Average length 2*3 in .
, breadth 145 in .
Aptenodytes longirostris , Scop .
( Eggs noticed in MS .
, but none appear to be in collection .
) Pygoscelis taeniata , Peal .
A solitary egg of this species is of a pale blue thickly coated with calcareous matter .
It measures 2*5 in .
x 2 in .
Eudyptes saltator .
Two eggs ascribed to this species differ considerably in size , the larger measuring 2*7 in .
X 2 in .
; the other 2*4 in .
X 1*65 in .
The colour is very pale blue with a white calcareous coating irregularly disposed over the surface .
In shape they are somewhat pointed at one end .

