[ 327 ] VIII .
Description of Fossil Remains , including Foot-bones , of Megalama prisca.\#151 ; Part IV .
By Sir Richard Owen , K.C.B. , Received January 13 , \#151 ; Read January 28 , 1886 .
[ Plates 13-15 .
] I have been favoured to receive from my friend , Dr. George Bennett , F.L.S. , of Sydney , New South Wales , a further collection of fossil bones " from the Gowrie Creek , Darling Downs , Queensland .
" Their correspondence in mineralized condition and colour indicates , and a vertebra supports by its degree of resemblance to the subject* of Plate 34 , in the " Philosophical Transactions " for 1880 , their reference to Megalania prisca .
I subjoin figures of the vertebra of the natural size .
The neural spine is represented by a ridge which slightly expands at the hind end , Plate 13 , fig. 3 , ns , where it has been broken and worn down ; but , as a " spine , " it has been smaller and shorter than in the vertebra compared ( Phil. Trans. , ut supra ) .
The abraded base of the spine , ns , occupies one inch of the hinder part of the ridge , traversing the midline of the neural arch , its greatest breadth being half an inch .
The outer surface of all the prominences of this vertebra shows the effects of the attrition to which it has been subject from repeated rollings during the " freshets " of the river .
A comparison of fig. 13 , Plate 1 5 , of the present fossil with fig. 2 , Plate 35 , of the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1880 , will show the minor length of the centrum in comparison with its breadth , a proportion which , with the reduced spine , bespeaks a sacral character , and suggests that the previously described vertebra may have come from the lumbar region .
The " tranverse processes , " d , d , which , on the sacral hypothesis , articulated with iliac elements of the pelvic arch , have been broken off or ground down to their basal origin .
The articular surfaces of the centrum , b , c , figs. 1 , 2 , 4 , Plate 13 , are , as in fig. 1 of the Plate above cited , oblique from above downward and backward , in basal contour widely elliptical , that at the fore end of the centrum , c , being , according to the Saurian rule , concave , the opposite , hinder surface , b , convex .
The anterior outlet of the neural canal , Plate 13 , fig. 2a , n , is tranversely oval , and the canal there is partially divided into three channels by a low sharp ridge extending from each side of the upper half of the canal wall , and by a mid-ridge from the floor of the canal .
The breadth of this orifice is twice its vertical diameter .
The posterior outlet , fig. 2 , n , has reverse proportions ; the vertical diameter is 13 millims. , the * Now in the Museum of Natural History , Cromwell Road , transverse one 10 millims. , the lateral ridges project from the middle of each side wall ; a lower broader ridge rises from the middle of the floor , but subsides as it extends along the canal .
It may be objected that a supply of neural energy to the pair of hind-limbs would call for greater space to lodge the expanse of the supplying portion of the myelon ; but , if the now nearest known ally of Meged to wit , the diminutive existing Moloch lizard of Australia\#151 ; be a guide , reference to the figure of its skeleton in the 37th Plate of the Phil. Trans , for 1880 , will not encourage such objection .
The lower lateral divisions of the neural canal of the present fossil vertebra may have lodged the origins of the crural nerves .
It seems , probable , from present experience , that complete restoration of the great land or fluviatile horned Saurian of Australia will be by piecework .
The present vertebra , like the subject of Plate 34 , tom . .
, exceeds in size any such in the skeletons of the existing Crocodilia of the Australian rivers which have come under my examination .
The articular surfaces of the prezygapophyses , z , z , look obliquely upward , inward , and slightly backward ; those of the postzygapophyses , z , with opposite aspects , have suffered abrasion of the hinder border .
The broken and abraded surfaces of this much-rolled bone expose a close cancellous structure , and the degree of petrifaction gives the fossil a massive character and great weight .
The remains accompanying the above described vertebra are of a foot or feet of Megcdania ; as I cannot determine wdiether of a " fore " or " hind " limb I term them " metapodials .
" I was puzzled for a time by the subject of figs. 5-8 , Plate 14 .
A bone as broad as long by no means suggested a metacarpal or metatarsal one ; yet it was associated with others of , unquestionably , a fore or a hind foot .
Sufficient of the proximal articular surface , fig. 5 , a , remained to show it to have been very slightly concave , and it was continuous , at right angles , with a narrow flattened facet , elongated in a fore-aft direction , fig. 8 , a , indicative of a collateral bone .
The distal joint , fig. 8 , c , forming one of the angles of the triangular bone , was entire , and presented a convex condyle which bespoke its reception by the proximal articular cup of a toe-phalanx .
The unusual triangular shape of the present metapodial is due to an extension of the entire shaft from the side opposite to that which supports the surface , a in fig. 8 , and gradually losing breadth as it approaches the distal condyle , c. Along one side of the flattened surface there extends a raised , rough , narrow tract , fig. 5 , d , f indicative of the insertion of a powerful muscle .
A broader , oblique , roughened tract , near the middle of the opposite side of the shaft , fig. 7 , e , gives a similar indication of muscular implantation .
The lateral production of the metapodial shaft gradually loses breadth and thickness , and terminates in an obtuse border , d , figs. 6 , 7 , which extends , with a slight convex curvature , to the distal condyle , c. The figs. 5-8 of this singular bone may dispense with further verbal description .
SIR R. OWEN ON FOSSIL REMAINS OF MEGALANIA PR1SCA .
The subject of figs. 10 , 11 , 12 , Plate 15 , is a metapodial with the family characters of that of figs. 5-8 , Plate 14 .
It is from the same locality , shows the same colours and mineralized condition , and a similar , though inferior , proximal expansion ; but with extensions of the flattened articular surface on both right and left sides of the proximal end of the shaft , showing it to have been situated somewhere between the innermost and the outermost of the metapodial series .
The length of this bone is 2 inches , 10 lines=73 millims. ; its antero-posterior breadth at the proximal end is 28 millims. ; the same distal breadth is 20 millims. ; the tranverse proximal breadth is 20 millims. , the same distal breadth is 28 millims. The distal articulation , c , is a hemispheroid condyle , with a prominence on each side of the base , for ligamentous attachment .
The subject of figs. 13 , 14 , is also a metapodial , with an antero-posterior expanse of the proximal half of the shaft greater in degree than in the foregoing specimen , but less , in comparison with the length of the bone , than is the expanse shown in figs. 5 and 7 , Plate 14 .
The proximal articular surfaces , a , meet at an acute angle defining that end of the bone by a curved edge .
The broader articular surface , fig. 13 , a , is flat , the narrower one , fig. 14 , b , is slightly convex .
The expanse of the bone is from before backwards .
The distal half of the shaft , above the condyle , is triedral .
On the expanded part of the shaft is the oblong , smooth , seemingly articular surface , figs. 13 , 14 , d , which bends round an angle of the beginning of the contracted part of the shaft .
Another oblong , smooth prominence , fig. 13 , e , is defined upon the opposite side .
Two facets of the contracted part of the shaft meet at an obtuse ridge which terminates in an oblong smooth protuberance , fig. 13 , fOn the opposite side of the distal end is a well defined oval tract , fig. 14 , g. Of the phalanges I select a proximal , figs. 16 , 17 , and a distal or ungual , figs. 18 , 19 , specimen , figures of which , with those of the metapodial bones , may serve as guides in the recognition of similar evidences of the megalanian genus , and add to the knowledge of the geographical distribution in Australia of this remarkable reptilian form .
The proximal phalanx , figs. 16 , 17 , continues the character of unusual breadth of the upper end ; it gives transversely 35 millims. , the antero-posterior diameter of the middle of the shaft being 12 millims. The proximal articular surface , fig. 17 , is moderately concave , bounded on each side by a stout tuberosity .
The distal trochlea , 20 millims. transversely by 10 millims. , c , fig. 16 , is feebly convex antero-posteriorly , more feebly concave transversely .
It seems to have been a phalanx of a first or a fifth toe .
Ungual phalanges of the intervening toes have a deeper trochlear proximal joint , fig. 18 , a ; beyond this surface the bone is perforated by a transverse canal , b , the lower wall of which forms a cross bar , c , affording an insertional leverage to the flexor tendon .
From each outlet of the canal a groove extends forward , subsiding at the roughened core of the claw .
The metapodials of the chameleon approach in some proportions , though remotely , the megalanian peculiarities of the foot-bones , but a more close examination and extensive comparison of these parts of the reptilian skeleton are needed .
2 u Description of the Plates .
PLATE 13 .
Sacral Vertebra of Megcilcmia .
Fig. 1 .
Side view .
Fig. 2 .
Back view .
Fig. 3 .
Upper view .
Fig. 4 .
Under view .
PLATE 14 .
Metapodial Bone .
Fig. 5 .
Front view .
Fig. 6 .
Upper view .
Fig. 7 .
Back view .
Fig. 8 .
Side view .
PLATE 15 .
Metapodials and Phalanges .
Fig. 10 .
Side view .
Fig. 11 .
Front view .
Fig. 12 .
Upper view .
Fig. 13 .
Side view .
Fig. 14 .
Opposite side view .
Fig. 15 .
Proximal end .
Fig. 16 .
Back view of a proximal phalanx .
Fig. 17 .
Proximal end of the same .
Fig. 18 .
Side view of a distal phalanx .
Fig. 19 .
Upper view of the same .
All the figures are of the natural size .
Phil. Trans. 1886 .
Plate West , Newman \amp ; \#166 ; Co. imp Owerv .
PTviL .
Trcuns .
188 14 .
Fig , - Fife- 6 .
C W H .'Wesley axlaaeut.11th. .
West , Newman \amp ; Co. imp .
Oweru .
PTvbl .
Trcvrvs .
1886 .
15 .
Fig. lO .
W.H. Wesley .
a_cL YifiLt lx tin , Fig. ti .
Fig. 12 , .
We6t ; TSTewmaii \amp ; Co. i\#177 ; np .

