*r ' ] .
" " Albnmmoid Ammonia , ait washings .
Die shaking .
Aspiration .
j Grammes per million cub. metres .
Grains per million cub. feet .
Grammes per million cub. metres .
Grains .
1 per million 1 cub. feet .
1 Manchester , Dec. .
2 , 1876 : dull , -\#151 ; H\#151 ; '\#151 ; damp morning 160 70 53 1 oo Ditto , Dec. 4 : raining 159 69 124 1 \#166 ; 26 54 I have not , m my usual experiments , separated the solid particles of the air , because we must breathe them .
It was thought better to examine them by what is called Wanklyn 's process for organic nitrogen .
My reason for that is given elsewhere .
I never did receive it as a method of obtaining all the nitrogen in every substance ; but I did receive it , and do so still , as a method of obtaining the ammonia of that which is easily decomposed ; and only such substances are capable of producing fermenting disease according to theory .
.No other person , so far as I know , has entered on this part of the subject ; and it is the more interesting , as I have sufficiently shown that , ' in the places examined , the organic ammonia has been in intimate relation with the gross death-rate .
At the same time I do not find by this method the form of organic matter in the air .
It may be true that oxygen is the prime mover , in man producing animal life\#151 ; a favourite idea for a chemist ; but it may also be true that minute organisms cause a peculiar class of decomposition connected with mental or other activity , diseased or otherwise .
But my present object is explained .
III .
" On .
a Cause for the Appearance of Bright Lines in the Spectra of Irresolvable Star-Clusters .
" By E. J. Stone , M.A. , F.R.S. , Her Majesty 's Astronomer , Cape of Hood Hope .
Received August 13 , 1877 .
In the ' Proceedings ' of the Royal Society for 1877 , April 26 , there is a short paper by Mr. Huggins , in which some views of mine on this subject are called in question .
Mr. Huggins 's objections are threefold 1 .
" There are not found in the spectra of different nebulae the differences of relative brightness of the bright lines and of the continuous spectrum which would be expected on Mr. Stone s hypothesis .
2 .
" The star-clusters which are just within the resolving-power of the largest telescope do not give , even faintly , a spectrum of bright mes .
VOL. XXVI .
518 On the Spectra of Irresolvable Star-Clusters .
[ Dec. 13 3 .
" The same bright lines appear to be common to all the nebula which give a bright-line spectrum .
On Mr. Stone 's view , differences in the constitution of the enclosing atmospheres of different star-groups would be probable .
" Upon the first point I must remark that , after an examination of the spectra of the nebulae of Orion and v\ Argus , I am not of Mr. Huggins 's opinion .
The second point appears to me confirmatory of my views .
The irresolvability that I contemplate , as connected with bright-line spectra , does not arise from the sensible vanishing of the angles subtended by the distances between the isolated stellar masses of the cluster .
In this case the spectra would be continuous .
In my paper in the Proceedings ' for April 19 , I state this point as follows:\#151 ; " The linear spectrum can only appear when the resolvability of the cluster is at least injuriously affected by the light of the gaseous envelopes becoming sensibly proportional to that from the stellar masses , and in the majority of such cases it would only be in the light from the irresolvable portions of the cluster that bright lines could be seen in the spectrum .
" By irresolvability I here mean something independent of the power of any particular telescope used .
With respect to Mr. Huggins 's third objection I must remark that the difficulty is neither greater nor less , whether my views be accepted or rejected .
It cannot be more difficult to conceive that the same gas is present and predominant in certain isolated stellar clusters than that it is present and predominant in certain isolated irregular masses .
With respect to the objection which appears to have been raised by Professor Stokes , " that in a star-cluster in which the stars are surrounded by self-luminous atmospheres , the proportion between the sum total of the light from the stars and the light from the atmospheres will be independent of the distance of the cluster from us .
" Such , no doubt , would be true in the kind of clusters Professor Stokes has in contemplation .
I have , rather unfortunately , in my paper of April 19 , spoken of a " close stellar- cluster , " without , perhaps , explaining with sufficient clearness that the comparative closeness to which I refer is not optical but linear .
The clusters I contemplate are only close in the sense that the individual stellar masses must be close enough to destroy the isolation of the vaporous surroundings , and thus give rise to a gaseous envelope continuous over the whole or over portions of the stellar cluster .
I am quite aware , theoretically , as well as from experiment , that the spectra of many clusters , however much they may be condensed to a centre , must be continuous and not linear .
In fact , according to my views , the question whether a cluster which was irresolvable with our present optical means would give a continuous or linear spectrum , would depend on whether the irresolvability resulted from the vanishing of its linear dimensions , or from the light of the stellar masses in any given direction 1877 .
] On the Chloride-of-Silver Battery .
519 having become sufficiently enfeebled in comparison with the light of the intercepted area of the gaseous envelope .
The continuousness of the gaseous envelope I contemplate is a physical , not a mere optical , continuity .
rrr RR \#166 ; 8 hhdihh RrR Let A and B be two of the stars of such a cluster , CDa section of the dispersed gaseous envelope enveloping the cluster .
Then the light falling within the solid angle at 0 may be considered to arise from the star A and the area C D of the gaseous envelope .
Suppose the system removed to a greater distance .
The light from the star A is diminished in the proportion of the inverse square of the distances , while that from C D is sensibly equal to that from C D ' .
The question , therefore , whether such a cluster would , according to my views , end in becoming a nebula or a mere optical cluster , would depend upon whether it would be possible , with any supposed distribution of stellar masses and vaporous envelopes , to diminish the brightness of the star A below that given by the intercepted area C D of the enveloping surface , before the star B has been brought to strengthen the beam of light which gives the continuous spectrum .
In the one case we should have absolute irresolvability at that and all greater distances with any optical means at our disposal ; in the other irresolvability , which might become resolvability- with increase of optical power .
The case of two stars is of course only taken for simplicity ; it is the proportional increase in other cases which has to be considered .
I have chiefly had in contemplation nebulae like those of Orion and \#187 ; / Argus , , which extend over large angular distances ; but at great distances such nebulae might assume the character of planetary nebulae .
I see no difficulty in conceiving stellar clusters such as those I contemplate , which would give rise to bright-line spectra ; and I believe that the more the matter is examined the larger will be the number of facts which will be found to group themselves around the hypothesis which I have suggested .
IV .
i( Experimental Researches on the Electric Discharge with the Chloride-of-Silver Battery.\#151 ; Part I. " By Warren De La Rue , M.A. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , and Hugo W. Muller , Ph. D. , E.R.S. Received August 23 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) In the Journal of the Chemical Society , November 1868 , we first published an account of the " Chloride-of-Silver Battery .
Since 1874 we 2 o 2

