V. Part of Two Letters from Dr. Cay , to Dr. Martin Lister , Fellow of the College of Physicians and Royal Society ; concerning some Mineral Waters .
I Had a Mineral Water sent me , not long since , by Mr. Duncan ( a Surgeon in Alnseick , pretty well known for his Skill in his own Profession ) which he desired me to examine , and give him an account of .
Accordingly I first tried it after the usual manner , with Galls , and found it turned almost quite Black , though it had been brought at least Thirty Miles by Land-carriage from Eglingham in Northumberland : But if this deep Colour was somewhat of a Surprise to me ( for it was deeper than that of any atramentous Water , I had ever met with before ) yet you 'll easily imagine , that I was much more surprised to find , after I had slowly , in a Glass , evaporated more than one half of this Water , that it still retained the same atramentous Quality , and struck yet as deep with Galls as ever .
The strangeness of this Phenomenon made me hope to meet with somewhat new and uncommon in this Water ; and the Event did not deceive me , for it yielded me , at last , a real and genuine Vitriol .
I say nothing of the Ocre which this Water let fall in very great Plenty , that being a thing common to all atramentous Waters .
It 's strange , how the Thoughts of having found out some new thing , that has escaped the Eyes and Observations of all Mankind besides , does sooth the Vanity of our Natures : The Appearance of a new Phenomenon makes us think of nothing but setting up for Authors of some new Hypothesis , and while we give not our Thoughts time to cool , and calmly to deliberate , we over-look a great many things , which , in cold Blood , we would have thought necessary to have been enquired after ; and thus in our Haste and Transport , for the most part , we lose our selves , and leap over the Truth .
Though I was as ready as others to congratulate my self for having met with a thing that seemed odd enough , yet I had still some secret Suspicions of this Matter , that kept me from confidently affirming that I had met with a Spring that held real Vitriol : I could not bring my self to think it possible , that the Pyrites , lying constantly under Water , should ever yield Vitriol ; and I knew of nothing else ( at least in England ) that I could expect it from : And for the Misi , Sorry , Chalcites , and Melanteria ( of some of which Vitriol is made in other parts of the World , as Agricola , Caneparius , and others inform us ) though the Account we have of 'em from the Ancients is very much confused , and sometimes seems to be inconsistent , and what the Moderns say in this matter is but an imperfect Transcript of what the Ancients have said before , yet if any thing can be gathered out of their Accounts of these Stones , it seems to me to be this , that they are all but different sorts of the Pyrites : But if I be mistaken in this Matter , I desire that you would set me right , and inform me better .
But however this may be , though these things had their weight with me , yet another thing seemed still to increase my Suspicions ; I I could scarce bring my self to believe that a thing of this Nature , should not only escape your Observation , but the united Observations of the Gentlemen of the Royal Academy in France ; and that after all , That , which could neither be found by you in England , nor by them in France , should so nicely reserve it self , only to be discovered at last by Dr. Leigh in Lancashire , and by me in Northumberland .
But to put an end to all doubting in this Matter , having lately some Business that called me within Four or Five Miles of Eglingham , my Curiosity led me to visit this notable Well ; and as I am too much a Friend to Dr. Lister , and the Truth , to conceal any thing that I saw ; so , to tell the whole Matter , I found our mighty Rarity , our ~-Water to be only an old Drift made for the draining of a Row of old-wrought Coal-Pits a little above , and I informed my self from some old Men , that had formerly wrought in these Pits , that there was plenty of the Pyrites there , by them called , Brass Lumps ; and that this Drist was sometimes dry , and sometimes run with a plentiful Stream ; which is as fair and full an Account how this Water comes to have Vitriol in it , as any one need to desire : If this , after all , must be reckoned a Spring , we have yet a Variety of Medicated Springs , which Dr. Leigh takes no notice of , in Lancashire .
Our Common Shores are sometimes strongly enough impregnated with Volatile Salt , to give Name to a new Classis of Urinous Springs ; and it 's to be wondered that Kircher reckoned not the Cloaca maxima of Rome , among the medicated Springs of Italy .
So much am I of your Opinion in this thing , That this is ( as you handsomely call these Places in your Dissertation de Diabete ) only Fons per accidens , &amp; Sentina sive Cloaca potius quam Fons medicatus appellanda .
New-castle , April 29 .
1698 .
The Second Letter .
IN my last I gave you an Account of a Water taken up near Eglingham in Northumberland , which holds real Vitriol , which nevertheless shakes nothing that you have said concerning the Pyrites , since it is no Spring but a Current of Water that runs through a Coal-Drift , and that sometimes with so small and low a Stream , that the Pyrites ( which abounds in most Coal-Pits , but particularly in these ) has leave to lye dry above Water and to germinate , till a wet Season brings down a more plentiful Run of Water , and washes all away along with it .
I told you likewise that I suspected the Fons Vitriolaceus , near Haigh in Lancashire , to be much what such another Water , and find I was not much mistaken , for having been there lately , and made very particular Enquiry into the Matter I do assure you , that it is only a Spring which rises in a Coal-Drift ( or Water-Level made for the draining of the Cannel Coal-Pits ) which is so mixed with the Coal-Water , that it 's next to an Impossibility to separate 'em : So that it 's no great Wonder if such a Water should yield Vitriol , as many of our Coal-Waters do : though why such sort of Drains should not rather pass for Common-shores ( as you handsomely call 'em ) than Medicated Springs , I see not ; and think the Gentleman who was Godfather to this , might with as good Reason reckon the Cloaca maxima of Rome , among the Medicated Waters of Italy .
That he has a peculiar Way of multiplying medicated Springs , you 'll believe , when I tell you that he reckons one Water among his Lancashire Fontes Medicati , which neither is medicated , nor so much as a Spring at all : but , as I remember , ( for it is near Five Years since I saw it ) a mere Day-Water , that has no other Spring nor Supply , but immediately from the Clouds .
The Water which I mean is , his Fons Sulphureus near Wiggan , which ( because of its catching Fire at a lighted Candle ) he calls by the Name of Phosphorus Aquaticus : ( though after all , it is not the Water but a Halitus which breaks out at the Bottom of the Hole , after most of the Water , or all the Water is thrown out , which catches Fire .
) But this is much such a Fons Sulphureus , as his Water near Boulton is a Fons Vitriolaceus , i. e. sine Sulphur , as the other is sine Vitriolo .
Only with this notable Difference , that the Ochre of the Boulton Waters will , after it has been exposed some time to the Air , yield ( as the Ochre of all Atramentous Waters does ) some little Vitriol ; but this Water , whether exposed to Fire or Air , will sooner yield Maggots than Brimstone .
But now to let you see that neither Boulton nor Lancashire are the only Places that produce Wonders , he takes a step into Derbyshire , and discovers more Wonders there , than ever were thought to be in the Peak before ; he finds a Rock there near Buxton , which yields Vitriol , where not one Grain of the Pyrites is to be found .
Any one that designed to write with either the Exactness or Sincerity of a Philosopher , would here have given us some Description of this Rock ; but that it seems we must not expect from this Gentleman ; he contents himself with bare calling it a Rock , and tells us its Parish , and then he has done : I enquired diligently after this Rock , when I was lately at Buxton , and was directed to a Place close by the Brookside , within Three or Fourscore Yards of the House where the Bath is , where I found this Rock to be an Outburst of Allom-stone , it falls in the Air from some little Mixture of the Pyrites , and has in some Places a Copperose Taste pretty strong ; but that is no more than what I have sound , and you first observed , in the Allom-rocks at Whitby and Gisburgh in Yorkshire .
I need not , I know , tell you , how considerable a Quantity of Sulphur may be had from the Allom-Rock , nor how incapable Sulphur is of producing a Vitriol that will strike Black with Galls , without Iron : at least , I know no Mettal that will do it , unless perhaps Gold , ( which has several Properties common with Iron ) and yet , I believe , the Doctor himself , would no more suspect this Rock of his to hold Gold than Diamonds ; and if he allow Sulphur and Iron to be mixed with this Aluminis Minera , it is but needless wrangling to deny the Presence of the Pyrites , where he allows its Principles .
New-castle , October 14 .
1698 .

