Observations on the chemical Nature of the Humours of the Eye .
By Richard Chenevix , Esq. F.R.S. and M.R.I.A. Read November 5 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 195 .
] After a brief survey of what former physiologists , such as Bertrandi , Fourcroy , Wintringham , and Chrouet , have done in investigating the chemical history of the humours of the eye , in all which he found so .
considerable a disagreement , and so much obscurity , as to render a new analysis at least useful if not necessary , Mr. Chenevix proceeds to give us his own experiments .
Of these , the first series was made on the eyes of sheep , and the second on the human eye ; and they of course relate to the three humours , the aqueous , the crystalline , and the vitreous .
The specific gravity of the aqueous humour of the sheep 's eye was found to be 10-090 , taking that of water as 10 000 ; and from the results of various experiments , it appears to be composed of water , albumen , gelatine , and of a muriate the basis of which was found to be soda .
The specific gravity of the crystalline was equal to 11'000 , and was found to consist of a smaller quantity of water than the other humours , but of much larger proportion of albumen and gelatine ; and no essential difference could be perceived between the vitreous humour and the aqueous , their specific gravities , as well as their several chemical properties , being the same .
From the examination of the humours of the human eye , Mr. Chenevix convinced himself that they are scarcely in any respect different from those of the sheep 's eye .
The aqueous and vitreous humours were found to contain water , albumen , gelatine , and muriate of soda ; the latter ingredient alone being wanting in the crystalline .
The specific gravities of the aqueous and vitreous humrours were 10-053 , and of the crystalline 10-790 .
The specific gravity of the crystalline , compared with that of the aqueous and vitreous humours , being much greater in the human eye than in that of the sheep , our author bestows some pages on an inquiry concerning this phenomenon ; the result of which is , that as the globe of the human eye is smaller than that of the sheep , and hence the distance from the cornea to the retina much shorter , nature , in order to preserve the achromatic effect of the eye , rendered the human crystalline proportionably more dense than in other animals .
This illustration is confirmed by the examination of the eye of an ox , where the difference between the specific gravities of the humours was as 10,088 to 10-765 .
In examining the eyes of birds , it was found , that , different from those of quadrupeds , the cornea , or the anterior part of the eye , is a portion of a larger sphere than the sclerotica , or posterior part of the ball .
It is hence obvious that , in order to produce a proper refraction , it is necessary that the densities of the humours be essentially different .
Accordingly , it was found that the specific gravity of the.vitreous humour was 11 210 ; while that of .
the crystalline w vas no more than 103 92 .
Wlhence it appears , that the densitics are here actually inverted , in order to suit this structure of the eye .
The humours of the eyes of birds are chemically of the same nature as those of quadrupeds .
It is also observed , that the crystalline in all animals is not throughout of the same density ; the result of some experiments made on this subject being that its density increases from the circumference to the centre , as the square roots of the quantities pared away from the external part .
Lastly , it is suggested , that since we know that albumen can be coagulated by various methods , it is not unlikely that this may happen likewise in the human eye , and be the cause of disorder known by the name of Cataract .
An attention to this complaint , especially in gouty persons , is strongly recommended ; as some important conclusions , it is thought , may be drawn as to the influence of phosphoric acid in causing that disorder , by the common effect of acids in coagulating albumen .

