1881 .
] Development of the Skull Lepidosteus osseous .
n , \#171 ; 0ll the Development of the Skull in Lepidosteus osseous " ' By W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received November 3 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The materials for the present paper were kindly sent to me by Professor A. Agassiz ; they were for the use of Mr. Balfour and myself , and consisted of fifty-four small bottles of eggs and embryos in various stages .
These very valuable materials were obtained from Black Lake by Mr. S. W. Garman and Professor Agassiz , and many of the embryos were described and figured by the latter m the " Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , October 8 , 1878 . .
Havino- received from my friend the author a copy of his important paper , I at once wrote to ask permission to work Ins materials out , thoroughly ; suggesting that Mr. Balfour would undertake the embryological part of the work .
On receipt of my letter Professor Agassiz kindly acceded to my wish , and the results of our investigations are now ready for publiMr .
Balfour 's part of the work has been done with the assistance of my son , Mr. W. N. Parker , and their joint labour will include the anatomy of various organs of the adult fish .
We have had additional materials from Professor Burt G. Wilder ; these were larger young than those supplied by Professor Agassiz ; Mr. Balfour also has obtained several adult fishes in spirit ; and I am indebted to Professor Flower for an adult in the dry state .
Finding that we were in a condition to do some useful research on this important JELolostean Ganoid , I pressed Dr. Traquair to take up the skull of the adult ; this he consented to do ; and I am daily expecting that his paper will be sent to the Royal Society .
My observations on the skull and visceral arches have been made on embryos and young , varying from one-third of an inch to 4| inches in length ; I have ( artificially ) divided these into six stages .
Cartilage was being formed in the smallest examined by me , but m my second stage , embryos five-twelfths of an inch long , this tissue was quite consistent , and I succeeded in dissecting out all the parts .
The large notochord at this stage bends downwards under the swelling hindbrain , and then turns up a little at its free end ; passing into the lower part of the fissure between the mid- and hind-brain , it reaches beyond the middle of the cranium , and just touches the infundibulum and distinct pituitary body .
The paired cartilages , " parachordals , " that invest the notochord only cleave to its hinder three-fifths ; these bands then diverge and 108 Mr. W. K. Parker .
[ Dec. 8 .
enclose a lanceolate space under the fore-brain ( " thalamencephalon " ) .
These somewhat flattened bands of cartilage become narrower up to the middle of this large primary " pituitary space , " and then recover their former width in front , where they come in contact , having no notochord between them .
All the cartilage that lies in front of the notochord is called trabecular , * between the trabeculae , in front , there is a small Wedge of younger cartilage , the rudiment of the " intertrabecula .
The hinder , or parachordal , parts are somewhat scooped and bevelled above , and on their edge the auditory capsules rest .
These are quite distinct , and have a cartilaginous coat , which , however , has a large oval deficiency below .
As in the Batrachia , the fore part of the " palato-quadrate " cartilages is continuous with the trabecula ) in front ; but the " pedicle " is free behind .
The free " artieulo-Meckelian " rod is quite in front of the eye-balls , and is nearly as long as the hind suspensorium , or proper quadrate region ; this forward position of the hinge of the mandible is not temporary as in the frog , but is permanent .
The uppermost element of the hyoid arch is an anvil-shaped cartilage from the first , and ossifies afterwards , as the hyo-mandibular and symplectic bones .
As pointed out to me by Mr. Balfour , its dorsal end is continuous , as cartilage , with the skull ( auditory capsule ) above .
The basi-hyal is not yet ossified , but distinct inter-cerato- and hypo-hyal segments are already marked out .
Pour larger and one small rods of cartilage are seen on each side , articulating with a median band ; these are the branchial arches , which chondrify before they undergo segmentation .
In this stage there are no osseous laminae as yet formed .
Here , in this stage , in connexion with a large pre-nasal suctorial disk , we have three important generalised characters , namely , the continuity of the distal end of the mandibular pier and of the proximal end of the hyoid pier with the skull , and the forward position of the hinge of the jaw coupled with the horizontal direction of the suspensorium .
The hyoid arch has its segments formed much earlier than in the Teleostei , and the " pharyngo-branchials " are not independent cartilages , as in the Slcate .
The third stage\#151 ; embryos two-thirds of an inch long\#151 ; show a considerable advance in the development of the skull ; the cartilage , generally , is more solid and more extensive , and new tracts have appeared .
The apex of the notochord is now in the middle of the basis cranii , for the prochordal tracts have grown faster than the parachordals .
The large so-called pituitary space is now irregularly pyriform , and not lanceolate : the fore margin of the broad parachordal bands being now nearly transverse , whilst the prochordals ( trabeculae ) are wide and fenestrate at first , then narrow , and then widening suddenly , they coalesce , forming a sharp anterior end to the pituitary space .
1881 .
] Development of the Skull Lepidosteus osseous .
.109 Behind , the parachordals have grown further along the thick notochord and on each side they are now confluent with the auditory capsules , which have become irregularly ovoidal through the growth of the laro-e semicircular canals within ; their basal fenestra is still a round space under the partially floored " sacculus .
" The trabeculae swell out where they are confluent , and then are narrower in front ao-ain At their fore end each band passes insensibly into the corre-bonding palato-quadrate bar outside , whilst inside they are separated by a large pyriform wedge of cartilage , the intertrabecula .
The thick , rounded , free fore end of this median cartilage is the rudiment of the great " nasal rostrum , " and the rounded fore ends of the trabeculae are the rudiments of their cornua .
There is only a floor in the occipital region , but the wall-plate ol the chondrocranium has begun as a styloid cartilage running forward from the fore end of each auditory capsule into the superorbital region .
The palato-pterygoid band\#151 ; continuous in front with the trabeculae is now longer than the proximal part of the suspensorium , the spatulate quadrate region whose dorsal end is the free " pedicle .
" The wide proximal part of each trabecula is now already forming an oblong-facet , the " basi-pterygoid , " for articulation with the facet of the pfidldG*^ An oblong concavity is now seen under the outer edge of each auditory capsule , for the oblong head of the hyomandibular whose body is still solid , and the " symplectic " part merely a process growing downwards and forwards to get inside the lower margin of the suspensorium of the mandible .
The epi-hyal region is still merely the top of the cerato-hyal ; it is afterwards separate as a bony centre ; the inter-hyal , hypo-hyal , and double basi-hyal are all now chondrified and distinct , but the branchial arches are not yet segmented .
In this stage the skull is a curious compromise between that of a Salmon at the same stage and that of a Tadpole just beginning its transformation .
The hind-skull is quite like that of a young Salmon , the fore-skull , with its non-segmented palato-quadrate , and its forwardly placed quadrate condyles and horizontal suspensorium , is very much like what is seen in the suctorial skull of the Anurous a splint bone , the parasphenoid , as in the Tadpole , has now made its appearance .
The largest embryos reared by Messrs. Agassiz and Garman , which are about one inch in length , form my fourth stage ; these are rapidly acquiring the characters of the adult .
This is the stage in which the chondrocranium of this Holostean type corresponds most closely with that of the Chondrostean Sturgeon , whose adult skull is similar to that of Garpike just as the latter begins to show its own special characters .
This important difference is already evident , namely , that whilst in Acipenser the olfactory capsules remain in the antorbital position , those of Jjepidosteus are already carried 110 Mr. W. K. Parker .
[ Dec. 8 , forwards by the growing intertrabecula , and are even now in front of the relatively huge " cornua trabeculae .
" Thus these regions are now well grown in front of the ethmoidal territory , which , instead of being , as in the last stage , in the front margin of the skull , is now fairly in its middle , and this change has taken place whilst the embryo has only become one-half larger\#151 ; from two-thirds of an inch to an inch in length .
It is the hypertrophy of cartilage in the three trabecular tracts that makes the " rostrum " of the Sturgeon so massive , even whilst only a few inches in length , and this state of things exists temporarily in the Gfarpike .
Each " cornu " is now like a thick succulent lanceolate leaf , coiled partly upon itself , downwards , at its outer edge ; the middle bar , or intertrabecula , is now half as long as the skull , and projects forwards beyond the cornua , and between the distally-placed olfactory capsules .
The cranial cavity is now relatively very large , and is covered by a cartilaginous " tegmen , " before and behind ; between these regions , , over the huge mid-brain , there is a sub-circular " fontanelle , " narrower in front than behind , and emarginate in front by some growth of cartilage in the mid-line .
The postorbital spike of cartilage has now grown into a narrowish superorbital band , bounding the upper fontanelle and enclosing between itself and the trabecula , below , a large orbito-sphenoidal " fenestra .
The floor is also still open , and this large pituitary space is spearhead-shaped , and is under-floored by the parasphenoid .
The basipterygoid processes are now well formed ; the basal cartilages ( parachordals ) now embrace the huge notochord below , the flaps approaching , but not touching , each other .
The notochord is now being formed into a " cephalostyle , " but the bony sheath is imperfect .
Above , the sphenotic , epiotic , and opisthotic projections of the auditory capsule are more evident , but are not ossified .
Some slight bony deposit has appeared in the prootic region .
The " cephalostyle " is the first endo-cranial bone , and the parasphenoid the first ecto-cranial centre ; but the exoccipitals are just appearing also .
The condyle of the quadrate is now still further behind the middle of the palato-quadrate arcade , the pterygopalatine part of which is now quite free in front , and has grown forwards parallel with the rostrum , as a long style , which reaches further forwards than the cornua trabeculae .
The " pedicle " of the suspensorium has a facet by which it articulates with the basipterygoid .
The mandibular cartilage has also grown equally with the freed pterygopalatine rod , and has now a very large ear-shaped coronoid part in front of and above the articular part .
The opercular process and fenestra of the hyomandibular are now formed , but this part is not ossified ; the cerato-hyal diaphysis is present .
It is the only shaft-bone in the hyoid arch as yet ; the branchial arches are segmenting .
The superficial bones can now be seen as fine films in the 1881 .
] Development of the Skull in Lepidosteus osseous .
Ill transverse sections , and the parosteal palatine and pterygoid are large leaves of bone applied to the pterygopalatine bar ; the mesoptery-goid is only half as large as them , but is relatively much larger than in the adult . .
Whilst doubling its length , the young Lepidosteus gams a cranium much more like that of the adult ; this is my fifth stage .
The general form is now intensely modified by the foregrowth of the rostrum : the " intertrabecula " is now two-thirds the length of the entire skull .
The cornua trabeculae now reach only two-fifths of the distance to the end of the beak , and the pterygopalatine arcade reaches but little further forwards .
Owing to the " tegmen cranii " being much larger , the upper fontanelle is much smaller ; it is now a short oval , its longer diameter being lengthwise .
The bony matter of the " cephalostyle " is now aggregated towards the hinder half of the notochord ; it is now the basi-occipital bone .
The exoccipitals and prootics are growing larger , and there are now both sphenotics and alisphenoids .
Also , below ' the quadrate , metapterygoid , and articular " centres " have appeared ; and behind the jaw there are the hyomandibular , sym-plectic , epi-hyal , cerato-hyal , and hypo-hyal centres ; and the epi- , cerato- , and hypo-branchials have acquired a bony sheath .
In a young " Lepidosteus 4| inches long ( nearly ) , the approach to the adult state of the skull has been very great ; the superficial bones can all be determined .
The most remarkable of these are the small distal nasals and premaxillaries ; the long maxillary , ending in an " os mystaceum and jugal " ; the extremely long and slender " ethmo-nasals " and vomers ; the small pre-opercular ; and the huge angulated inter-opercular , which carries the large opercular and sub-opercular .
The five mandibular splints are all present ( as in most Sauropsida ) , the branchiostegals are only three in number , as m the Carp tribe .
The intertrabecula , which was merely a small tract of cells binding the trabecula ?
together , in front , is now three-fourths the length of the entire skull ; to it is due the length of the beak .
he cornua trabeculae are now merely short lanceolate leafy growths on the sides of the rostrum at its hind part .
In the last stage there was a fine bridge of cells running across behind the pituitary body ; this is now a small cartilaginous " post-clinoid " bar .
The opisthotic and epiotic form now a scarcely divided tract of bone , all the other centres are developing , and a pair of additional bones have appeared in the funnel-shaped fore-end of the chondrocranium ; these are the " lateral ethmoids .
" The bony matter of the basi-occipital has now retired to the hinder third of the notochord , which has much shrunken .
There are now two centres ( as in Amia calvai ) in the articular region of the mandible ; the quadrate and metapterygoid centres are much larger ; the hyo-mandibular and symplectic are together only half Dr. F. M. Balfour and Mr. W. N. Parker .
'[Dec .
8 , the size of the mandibular suspensorium ; the basi-hjal is very large , is composed of two parallel pieces , and is very Brief and imperfect as this " Abstract " is , I trust it is sufficient to show the extremely interesting and suggestive nature of this type ; anyhow , no clear understanding of the morphology of this type of skull can be had unless it be seen in the light derived from that of the Elasmobranchs , the Sturgeon , and the Anurous larva on one hand , and that of Amiacalva and the Teleostei on the other .
III .
" On the Structure and Development of Lepidosteus .
" By F. M. Balfour , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and W. N. Parker .
Received November 24 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The authors commence this paper by thanking Professor Alexander Agassiz for the material , both embryological and adult , on which these researches were made .
The first section is devoted to the general development .
In this .section an account is given of the structure of the ripe ovum , of the segmentation , of the history of the germinal layers , of the first development of the principal organs , and of the external features of the embryo during embryonic and larval life .
The more important points established in this section , are\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The ovum when laid is invested by a double covering formed of ( a. ) a thick inner membrane , the outer zone of which is radially striated , and ( \amp ; ) an outer layer made up of highly refractive pyriform bodies which are probably metamorphosed follicular epithelial cells .
( 2 .
) The segmentation is complete , though very unequal ; the lower pole being very slightly divided into segments , and its constituent parts subsequently fusing together to form an unsegmented mass of yolk , like the yolk-mass of Teleostei .
( 3 .
) The epiblast is divided into an epidermic and a nervous stratum , as in Teleostei .
( 4 .
) The walls of the brain , of the spinal cord , and of the optic vesicles are formed from a solid medullary keel , like that found in Teleostei .
( 5 .
) The lens , the auditory vesicle , and the olfactory pit , are wholly .developed from the nervous layer of the epidermis .
( 6 .
) The segmental or archinephric duct is developed , as in Teleostei , from a hollow ridge of the somatic mesoblast , which becomes constricted off , except in front ; thus forming a duct with an anterior pore leading into the body cavity .

