Additional Observations on the Effects of Magnesia in preventing an increased Formation of Uric Acid ; with Remarks on the Influence of Acids upon the Composition of the Urine .
By William Thomas Brand , Esq. F.R.S. Prof. Chem. R. I. Communicated by the Societyfor improving Animal Chemistry .
Read June 3 , 1813. .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 213 .
] This communication consists of two parts : the first of which is a confirmation of the beneficial effects of magnesia in preventing the deposit of uric acid from the urine of persons subject to the formation of a redundancy of that ingredient ; and the second part relates to the trial of acid remedies in disorders of an opposite nature , where the urine is found to deposit either the ammoniacal phosphate of magnesia or phosphate of lime .
The first section contains two cases ; the first of a gentleman who was accidentally induced to employ magnesia for the purpose of relieving indigestion , occasioned by the use of alkaline remedies , and who thereby fortunately corrected a tendency to form red sand , for which those medicines had been taken ineffectually .
The second is an instance of the beneficial effects of magnesia in correcting the formation of uric acid , where alkalies had relieved but could not be continued .
It also exhibits the prejudicial effects of both when too long persisted in , by causing a redundance of an opposite nature in the urine , and a consequent deposit of earthy phosphates as white sand .
The object of the second section of this paper is to ascertain what acids may be employed with most advantage in those cases where the ammoniacal phosphate of magnesia prevails in the urine , either naturally or by an injudicious use of alkaline medicines .
For though the use of acids was pointed out fifteen years since by the same chemist who originally analysed this species of calculus , Mr. Brand is not aware that in the course of that time any experiments have been made to illustrate the mode of action of different acids .
The first case related is that of a gentleman who had been cut for the stone ten years before , and was again attacked with symptoms of calculus .
By the .
use of a brisk purge in the first instance , one calculus was passed , but he still suffered pain in his kidneys , that was aggravated by the use of soda water , which increased the proportion of triple phosphate in his urine .
Ten drops of muriatic acid were then taken three times a day , which removed the white sand ; but as this acid tended to increase the quantity of red sand , it was exchanged for carbonic acid , with decided relief to all the symptoms .
The second case was that of a boy , from whom four calculi had been extracted by the usual operation of lithotomy .
These consisted principally of the triple phosphate of magnesia ; and his urine continued after the operation to be loaded with a deposit of this substance , in the form of a white sand .
The acid employed in this instance was citric acid , to the amount of twenty grains three times a day .
As the effect of this remedy upon the disorder was found to be decisive , and the consequence of any omission was observable in less than twenty-four hours , it was persevered in for nearly three months , when the disposition to deposit the earthy phosphates was found to have ceased altogether , and the lad remained apparently free from disease .
Two other cases are also related : the first of which was relieved by citric acid taken twice every day , together with vinegar and other acid articles of diet ; and the second by carbonic acid , taken as an effervescing draught , which prevented the formation of white sand , and removed'an irritation of the bladder , occasioned by that deposit .
As the general results of these trials , the author infers , That where alkalies fail to correct the redundant secretion of red sand , magnesia is generally effectual .
That when either of these is improperly continued , they are liable to occasion the deposit of the earthy phosphates , in the form of white sand .
That the mineral acids prevent this deposition , but are apt to induce a return of red gravel , consisting of uric acid .
That vegetable acids , especially the citric and tartaric , are less liable to produce this prejudicial effect , although they prevent the formation of white sand ; And that carbonic acid appears particularly useful in cases where the irritability of the bladder forbids the use of other acid remedies .

