122 Prof. F. Clowes .
An Apparatus for [ June 18 , Nickel , Nickel , 25 per cent. 22 per cent. Density .
Temp. Density .
Temp. After heating , non-magnetisable 8-15 15-1 8-13 16-5 After cooling , magnetisable 7-99 14-5 7-96 15-6 After heating again , non-magnetisable 8-15 18-0 8 12 18-2 After cooling again , magnetisable ... .
7-97 22-0 7-95 2T8 The rings were each time cooled to from \#151 ; 100 ' C. to \#151 ; 110 ' C. by carbonic acid and ether in vacuo .
IY .
i( An Apparatus for testing the Sensitiveness of Safety-lamps .
" By Frank Clowes , D.Sc .
, Loud , Professor of Chemistry , University College , Nottingham .
Communicated by Professor Armstrong , F.R.S. Received June 4 , 1891 .
It is generally acknowledged that the Davy safety-lamp cannot with certainty detect less than 3 per cent , of firedamp in the air of the mine .
Gas-indicators of much greater sensitiveness have been invented ; amongt these the electrical apparatus of Liveing and the spirit safety-lamp of Pieler take first rank .
The objection to these special forms is , however , a serious one .
They do not serve for illuminating purposes , and therefore it becomes necessary to carry an ordinary safety-lamp , together with the testing apparatus .
Many attempts have been made to obviate this inconvenience by producing a safety-lamp which shall serve the double purpose of illumination and of detecting minute percentages of firedamp .
The discovery of such a lamp would be of great value to the miner , in view of the fact that very low percentages of firedamp have been proved to be dangerous in the presence of coal-dust .
The following apparatus has been devised to render easy the process of testing the sensitiveness of different forms of safety-lamps when used for detecting firedamp .
To enable satisfactory tests to be made in the laboratory , it was necessary to insure ( 1 ) the easy and rapid production of mixtures of firedamp and air in known proportions ; ( 2 ) to insure economy of the artificially prepared methane , which represented firedamp ; and ( 3 ) to examine the flame of the lamp under conditions as satisfactory as those existing in the mine .
A wooden cubical box of about 100 litres capacity was constructed so as to be as nearly gas-tight as possible .
It was then made absolutely gas-tight by painting it over with melted paraffin wax , which was afterwards caused to penetrate more perfectly by passing an ordinary hot flat-iron over the surface .
This testing chamber was furnished with a small inlet tube at tl e top , and with a similar outlet 1891 .
] testing the Sensitiveness of Safety-lamps .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
tube below .
It bad a plate-glass window in front for observing the lamp in the interior , and a flanged opening below for introducing the safety-lamp .
This opening was closed by a water-seal consisting of a small zinc tray supported by buttons , and containing about 2 inches depth of water , into which the flange dipped .
A mixer was arranged , which consisted of a light flat board , nearly equal in dimensions to the 124 Prof. F. Clowes , An Apparatus for [ June 18 , section of the chamber , and suspended by an axis from the upper corner of the chamber .
The mixer was moved rapidly backwards and forwards from the side to the top of the interior of the chamber , by grasping a handle projecting through the front of the chamber .
When a mixture of air with a certain definite percentage of firedamp was required , the methane , prepared and purified by ordinary chemical methods , was introduced into the chamber in the requisite quantity by the top inlet .
It displaced an equal volume of air , which escaped through the lower outlet , the exit end of which was sealed by being immersed just beneath a water surface .
A vigorous use of the mixer secured a uniform mixture of gas and air throughout the interior of the chamber in the course of a few seconds .
The lamp was then introduced into the chamber , and placed in position behind the glass window .
The simplicity of arrangement of the water-seal rendered the necessary opening of the chamber very brief , and the introductior .
and removal of the lamp many times in succession was not found to produce any appreciable effect upon the composition of the atmosphere inside the chamber .
The appearance and dimensions of the " cap " over the flame were noted as soon as the cap underwent no further change .
A lamp was left burning in the chamber for a considerable length of time , and its indications underwent no change , owing to the large capacity of the chamber and the very limited amount of air required to support the combustion of the small flame always used in gas-testing .
The whole interior of the chamber and mixer were painted dead-black , so as to render visible pale and small caps against a black ground .
The methane was introduced from an ordinary gas-holder .
A volume of water , equal to that of the methane to be displaced , was poured into the top of the gas-holder .
The gas-tap of the holder was then momentarily opened , so as to produce equilibrium of pressure between the methane and the atmosphere .
The gas-tap having then been placed in connexion with the upper inlet of the chamber , the water-tap was opened , and the measured volume of water was allowed to flow down and drive the methane into the chamber .
As soon as bubbles of air ceased to appear through the water at the outlet , the chamber was closed ; the mixer was then vigorously worked for a few seconds , and the mixture of gas and air was ready for the introduction of the lamp .
Before introducing the methane for a fresh mixture , the atmosphere of the chamber was replaced by fresh air by removing the water-tray from beneath the opening at the bottom of the chamber , and blowing in a powerful stream of air from a bellows to the top of the chamber .
The chamber was supported on legs , which were arranged so as to place it at a convenient height for observations through the window , and also for the introduction and removal of the safety-lamp .
1891 .
] testing the Sensitiveness of Safety-lamps .
The accuracy of this method was tested by introducing the Pieler lamp into the chamber , which was charged successively with a series of mixtures containing proportions of methane varying from 05 to 4 per cent. The height and appearance of the cap over the flame absolutely corresponded with a series of standard tests already published , and made by a different method , in which firedamp was used instead of methane .
The observations were usually made in a darkened room , but the flame-caps were easily seen in a lighted room , provided direct light falling on the eye or chamber was avoided .
The capacity of the chamber was 95,220 c.c. ; accordingly the following volumes of methane were introduced : for ^ per cent , mixture 476 c.c. , for 1 per cent. 952 c.c. , for 2 per cent. 1904 c.c. , for 3 percent .
2856 c.c. , for 4 per cent. 3808 c.c. , and for 5 per cent. 4760 c.c. It will be seen that a series of tests , in which the above-mentioned percentage mixtures were employed , involves an expenditure of only 15 litres of methane , a quantity far smaller than that required by any other method of testing as yet described .
Of many forms of safety-lamp tested in the above apparatus , the one which most satisfactorily fulfilled the two purposes of efficient illumination and delicacy in gas-testing was Ashworth 's improved Hepplewhite-Gray lamp .
This lamp is of special construction , burns benzoline from a sponge reservoir , and its flame is surrounded with a glass cylinder , which is ground rough at the hinder part ; this latter device prevents the numerous reflected images of the flame , and the generally diffused reflections which are seen from a smooth glass surface , and which render the observation of a small pale flame-cap very difficult , if not impossible .
The wick of this lamp , when at a normal height , furnishes a flame of great illuminating power .
When lowered by a fine screw adjustment the flame becomes blue and non-luminous , and does not interfere therefore with the easy observation of a pale cap. The following heights of flame-cap were observed , which fully bear out the unusual sensitiveness of this flame .
With 0'5 per cent , of methane 7 mm. ; with 1 per cent. 10 mm. ; with 2 per cent. 14 mm. ; with 3 per cent. 20 mm. ; wTith 4 per cent. 25 mm. ; and with 5 per cent. 30 mm. The cap , which with the lower proportions was somewhat ill-defined , became remarkably sharp and definite when 3 per cent , and upwards of methane was present .
But even the lowest percentage gave a cap easily seen by an inexperienced observer .
It appears from the above record of tests that the problem of producing a lamp which shall serve both for efficient illuminating and for delicate gas-testing purposes has been solved .
The solution is in some measure due to the substitution of benzoline for oil , since the 126 Mr. 0 .
Heaviside .
On the Forces , Stresses , and [ June 18 , flame of an oil-flame cannot be altogether deprived of its yellow luminous tip , without serious risk of total extinction ; and this faint luminosity is sufficient to prevent pale caps from being seen .
From further experiments made in the above testing chamber with flames produced by alcohol and by hydrogen , it was found to be true in practice , as might be inferred from theory , that , if the flame was pale and practically non-luminous , the size and definition of the flame-cap was augmented by increasing either the size or the temperature of the flame .
It is quite possible by attending to these conditions to obtain a flame which , although it is very sensitive for low percentages of gas , becomes unsuitable for the measurement of any proportion of gas exceeding 3 per cent. This must , for the general purposes of the miner , be looked upon as a defect ; but it is not a fault of the lamp already referred to .
It is of interest to note that with the Pieler spirit-lamp a flame-cap an inch in height was seen in air containing only 0'5 per cent , of methane .
Y. " On the Forces , Stresses , and Fluxes of Energy in the Electromagnetic Field .
" By Oliver Heaviside , F.R.S. Received June 9 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The abstract nature of this paper renders its adequate abstraction difficult .
The principle of conservation of energy , when applied to a theory such as Maxwell 's , which postulates the definite localisation of energy , takes a more special form , viz. , that of the continuity of energy .
Its general nature is discussed .
The relativity of motion forbids us to go so far as to assume the objectivity of energy , and to identify energy , like matter ; hence the expression of the principle is less precise than that of the continuity of matter ( as in hydrodynamics ) , for all we can say in general is that the convergence of the flux of energy equals the rate of increase of the density of the energy ; the flux of the energy being made up partly of the mere convection of energy by motion of the matter ( or other medium ) with which it is associated localisably , and partly of energy which is transferred through the medium in other ways , as by the activity of a stress , for example , not obviously ( if at all ) representable as the convection of energy .
Gravitational energy is the chief difficulty in the way of the carrying out of the principle .
It must come from the ether ( for where else can it come from ?
) , when it goes to matter ; but we are entirely ignorant of the manner of its distribution and transference .
But , whenever energy can be localised , the principle of continuity of energy is ( in spite of certain drawbacks connected with the circuital flow of energy ) a valuable principle which should be utilised to the

