A Comparison of the Changes of Magnetic Intensity throughout the Day in the Dipping and Horizontal Needles , at Treurenburgh Bay in Spitsbergen .
By Captain Henry Foster , R.N. F.R.S. Read May 8 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 303 .
] The observations made by the author at Port Bowen in 1 825 , on the diurnal changes of magnetic intensity taking place in the dippingand horizontal-needles , appeared to indicate a rotatory motion of the polarizing axis of the earth , depending on the relative position of the sun , as the cause of these changes .
By Capt. Foster 's remaining at Spitzbergen , during the late Northern Voyage of Discovery , a favourable opportunity was afforded him of prosecuting this inquiry .
Instead of making observations with a single needle , variously suspended , as had been done at Port Bowen , two were employed , the one adjusted as a dipping-needle , and the other suspended horizontally .
The relation between the simultaneous intensities of the two needles could thus be ascertained , and inferences deduced relative to the question whether a diurnal variation in the dip existed as one of the causes of the observed phenomena , or whether , the dip remaining constant , they were occasioned by a change in the intensity .
The dipping-needle used was one belonging to the Board of Longitude , and made by Dollond .
Bothl this and the horizontal-needle were made in the form of parallelopipedons , each 6 inches long , 04 broad , and 0(05 thick .
The experiments were continued from the 30th of July to the 9th of August ; and were so arranged , that in the course of two days an observation was made every hour in the four-and-twenty ; that is , part of them in one day and another part in the other day .
The observations on the horizontal-needle were made in the following manner:-after being freely suspended by a silk thread divested of torsion , the needle was turned somewhat more than 40 ?
out of the magnetic meridian , and the oscillations counted only when the arc of vibration had decreased to 40 ? .
The times of performing ten oscillations were then noted successively until 200 were completed ; the terminal arc and the temperature of the instrument were also registered .
The oscillations of the dipping-needle were taken as follows : one hundred with the face of the instrument east , previous to those of the horizontal-needle being observed ; and another hundred after the latter , with the face west , -a process which gives the mean time of observation nearly the same for both needles .
Two tables are given ; the first containing a register of the observations ; and the second , the mean proportional intensities at every hour in each needle , deduced from the respective times of the performance of 100 oscillations .
From a comparison of the changes occurring in the two needles , it appears that at the time when an increase took place in the intensity of the dipping-needle , that of the horizontalneedle underwent a corresponding diminution , and vice versed .
On comparing these results with the hypothesis of a rotation of the general polarizing axis of the earth about its mean position as a centre , and employing for this investigation the formule given by Mr. Barlow , in his Essay on Magnetic Attractions , it is found that the radius of this circle of rotation is very nearly eight minutes .
The magnitude of this radius , however , will be considerably influenced by the sun 's declination .
The change of intensity of the dipping-needle , in as far as it is owing to a variation of the dip , would be only in the proportion of 3726 to 3732 ; whereas its actual amount is found to be one eightythird part of the whole .
This , therefore , seems to imply changes in the general magnetic intensity of the earth .
But the author , limiting his present inquiry to the variations in the dip , concludes that the times of the day when these changes are the greatest and the least , are such as indicate a constant inflexion of the magnetic pole towards the sun during the diurnal rotation , and to point to the sun as the primary agent in the production of these changes .

