Fig. 4 .
Fig. 3 .
~ ~ ~~ ~~ XI .
The Description of an Antique Metal Stamp , in the Collection of his Grace CHARLES Duke of Richmond , Lenox and Aubigny , F. R. S. &amp;c. being one of the Instances , how near the Romans had arrived to the Art of Printing ; with some Remarks by C. Mortimer , M. D. Fellow of the College of Physicians , and Secr. R. S. Lond. SINCE Arts and Sciences , especially Statuary and Sculpture , were arrived at so great Perfection , when the Roman Empire was in its Glory , as the many beautiful Statues , the exquisite Intaglia 's , and fine Medals , which Time hath handed down to us , do sufficiently evince ; it is much to be wondered at , that they never hit upon the Method of printing Books .
The Dies they made for their Coins , and their stamping them on the Metal , was in reality Printing on Metal ; their Seals cut in Cornelians and Agates , and their pressing them on Dough and soft Wax , was another sort of Printing ; and a third sort was the marking their earthen Vessels , while the Clay was soft , with the Name of the Potter , or the Owner the Vessel was made for .
These being of a larger Size , were properly called Signa ; the Seals cut in Stone were called Sigilla ; Sigillum being a Diminutive of Signum , as Tigillum is of Tignum : But the later and more barbarous Latinists have formed the Diminutive of Signum into Signetum ; and if a very small PocketSeal , they have called it Signaculum .
See Joh. Mich. Heinecius de Sigillis .
Francof .
1709 .
Fol.p .
16 .
&amp; seq. The learned Montfaucon , amongst his prodigious Treasures of Antiquities , in his Antiquite expliquee , Tom. III .
Party 2de .
Chap. 12 .
gives us the Figures and Descriptions of several of these larger Sigilla or Signa , whereon , he saith , the Names were all cut in hollow in capital Letters , Domini Patronique nomen majusculis literis insculptum , which he expresses in French , imprime en creux ; and he imagines their Use to have been to mark earthen Vessels , particularly those great earthen Jars , wherein the Romans used to keep their Wines .
If any of them had occurred to him with the Letters excisae , exsculptae , protuberant or standing out , as the Types in our modern way of Printing are made , so accurate a Describer of Antiquities could not have passed such an one over without having mentioned it , and that the rather because of its being a greater Rarity : tho ' several Lamps of Terra cocta are stamped with Letters impressed or hollow , from such protuberant Letters as in this Stamp , but the greater Number have the Letters raised , or standing out .
You have here the Impression and Figure of one of these last sort of Stamps * , whereon the Letters are exsculptae or protuberant , as is likewise the Edge or Border round the whole Stamp .
This * The Impression at p. 388 .
is from the very Stamp itself , and the Figure of the Stamp is represented in the TA B. prefixed .
This Stamp is made of the true ancient Brass , and is covered over with a green Scale or Coat , such as is usually seen on ancient Medals .
It was found in or near Rome .
On the Back is fastened a Ring , whereof the Hole is 27/ 40 of an English Inch one way , and 23/ 40 the other way ; the Plate itself is two Inches long , wanting 1/ 40 , and its Breadth exactly 33/ 40 of an Inch : The Sides are parallel to one another , and the Ends are likewise parallel to each other , but they are not upon an exact Square with the Sides , varying about one Degree and an half from an exact Rectangle .
On the under Side stand two Lines or Rows of Letters 7/ 40 of an Inch in Height , and wellform 'd Roman Capitals : The Faces of them stand up all upon an exact Level with one another , and with the Edge or Border of the Stamp ; their Protuberance or Height above the Ground is different , the Ground being cut uneven ; for close to most of the Letters the Ground is cut away only 2/ 40 , close to some near 3/ 40 , and close to the Edges full 3/ 40 .
The first Line contains these Letters , CICAECILI V , with a Stop or Leaf to fill up the Line ; in the second Line , HERMIA E. S N. Which I judge is to be read Caii Julii Caecili , Hermiae Signum .
Who this Caius Julius Caecilus was , I cannot find , he being probably a Man in a private Station , and so his Name hath not been handed down to us in any Monuments , but only accidentally in this Stamp .
In Gruter occur two of the Name of Hermias , and several of the Caecilii , but none with these two Names joined together .
The Use of this Stamp seems to have been for the Signature of the above-mention 'd private Man , to save him the Trouble of writing his Name , as some People have now-a-days .
It was certainly used on Paper or Membranes , being first dipped into Ink , or some sort of Paint , because of the Protuberance of the Letters , the hollow Letters being fitter for soft Substances , on which they leave the Impression standing up , and consequently more legible .
Another Argument to me , that this Stamp was not to be used on any soft Substance into which it might be pressed quite down to the Ground , is the Unevenness and Roughness with which the Ground is finished , which , was it to have made part of the Impression , the Workman would have finished with more Accuracy ; but he , knowing that the Surface of the Letters was to perform the whole Work required , was only attentive to finish them with that accurate Evenness that these have .
The learned Mr. Mattaire , in his Annals Typographici , Hagae 1719 .
in 40 .
p. 4 .
concludes from the best Authors , that our modern Art of Printing was first thought of about the Year 1440 .
A Copy of the Book he mentions , ib p. 13 .
called Speculum nostrae Salutis , being Pictures of Stories out of the Bible , with Verses underneath , in Dutch , I have seen in the Stand house at Harlem .
Each Page was printed from a Block of Wood , like a sorry wooden Cut ; and this was the first Essay of Printing , which Hint was taken from Engraving , and is what he means p. 4 .
by Typi fixi ; after which they soon improved to use separate Types , as we now do , which he terms , ibid. Typi mobiles .
This Stamp is , in Reality , a small Frame of fixed Types , and prints with our modern Printer 's Ink , which is only a sort of black Paint , as readily as any Set of Letters , cut in the rude manner these are , can be expected to perform : I have therefore exhibited the Impression of it , at the Head of this Paper , as the most ancient Sample of Printing we know of ; for by the Appearance of the Metal it seems to be of the Upper Empire .
We see by this Stamp of two Lines , that the very Essence of Printing was known to the Romans , and they had nothing to do but to have made a Stamp with Lines three or four times as long , and containing twenty instead of two Lines , to have formed a Frame of Types that would have printed a whole Page , as well as Coster 's wooden Blocks , which he used in printing the Speculum Salutis .
In the first Volume of a Collection of several Pieces of Mr. John Toland , printed Lond. 1726 .
in 80 .
p. 297 .
is a small Tract of his entitled , Conjectura verosimilis de prima Typographiae Invention , which is founded upon the following Passage in Cicero , in cap. 20 .
Lib. II .
de Natura Deorum ; where Balbus the Stoic uses the following Words in an Argument against Velleius an Epicurean : Hic ego non mirer esse aliquem , qui sibi persuadeat , corpora quaedam solida atque individua vi &amp; gravitate ferri ; mundumque effici ornatissimum &amp; pulcherrimum , ex eorum concursione fortuita ?
Hoc qui existimet fieri potuisse , non intelligo cur non idem putet , si innumerabiles unius &amp; viginti formae literarum ( vel aureae vel quales libet ) aliquo conjiciantur ; posse ex his in terram excussis annals Ennii , ut deinceps legi possint , effici ; quod nescio anne in uno quidem versu possit tantum valere fortuna .
He conjectures that this very Passage gave the first Hint to the Inventors of Printing about the Year 1445 .
because they retained even Cicero 's Name for their Types , calling them Formae Literarum , and made them of Metal , as he says , aureae vel quales libet .
Moreover , in Cap. 10 .
Lib. III .
de Divinatione , Cicero hath the very Phrase imprimere literas .
Brands for marking Cattle were in Use in Virgil 's Time , Georg .
Lib. III .
ver .
158 .
where he says , Continuoque notas , &amp; nomina gentis inurunt .
Procopius , in his Historia Arcana , says , the Emperor Justinus , not being able to write his Name , had a thin smooth Piece of Board , through which were cut Holes in form of the four Letters IVS T. which , laid on the Paper , served to direct the Point of his Pen ; which being dipped in red Ink , and put in his Hand , his Hand was guided by another .
Possibly this may likewise have given the Hint to the first of our Card-makers , who paint their Cards in the same manner , by Plates of Pewter or Copper , or only Pastboards , with Slits in them in form of the Figures that are to be painted on the Cards .

