]\gt ; Elastic Solids at Rest or in Xiquid .
opinion , the view I put forward in 1877 that " " new stars " " are rod the clash of meteor-swarms ; and they have suggested some further pro uced tests of its validity .
We may hope since observations were made at Harvard and Potsd near the epoch of maxim brilliancy , that a ) sequent com 1 am ( liscussion of the results obtained very largely increase our ete ledge .
The interesting question arises hither 1 may not regardthenovvchanges in spectrum as indicating that the very violent intrusion of the dellser s has been by its dissipation , and that its has produced movements in the sparser which ma passage eventuate in a snbsequent condensation .
best thanks are due to those I named for assistance in this \mdash ; " " Elastic Solids at or lIotion in a \ldquo ; By , LL. I .
, .
Peceived ) Deceulber 13 , 1900 .
S1 .
The proI ) lems deaIt lvith the present aer are rob little practical .
but th paper are probably of ey secnl of considerable interest th standpoint of theoly .
The and line hich it customary to ) } even id olids has beon discarded , and a more direct insight is thus obtained and stic llto the modes of of in solids .
Let ns consider a soIid of an homogcneous , possessed of s.uch symmetry of shape as will c that if it under liquid , element } .evel.tically .
Take the of ular Crtesian c the of vity , the of being horlzontal , and the axis of being ards .
At time lct ) the depth of the C.G. ' the liqnid , the pressure on is miform to .
The of seons p ; ou the old only contril ) .
modifying the of the Consider first the accol.ding to the liquid pressure any the of the solid clCtS the , and is equal to , here is the density of the ]iquid , sn If the solid fall or rise very slowly , the viscosity of is very small , the resuIts based 011 the ) ve a cIose approximation to the truth .
to Dr. C. Chree .
If represent the elastic acements , \amp ; c. , the stresses in the notation of Todhunter and Pearson 's 'History of Elasticity , ' the body stress equations are of the type ( 1 ) : where represents the density of the solid , the acceleration of gravity .
The equations treat for each element of the solid , and so assume the motion , if motion takes place , lace is purely translational .
If be the tion c of the outwardly direct normtt 1 at a point , the surface GqUationS are ( 2 ) .
The equations ( 2 ) satisfied the assnmption ( 3 ) .
Also the values ( 3 ) the ) stress equations 1 ) , provided ( 4 ) .
We can satisfy ( 4 ) by , ( 5 ) .
ityThe 1 ' posed t ltlcthods for the motiou of solid or liquid of different density .
Elastic Sotids at Rest or in a .
237 On ]ooking more closely into the matter an in consistency manif itself .
Supposing for mathematical simplicity that the solid manl ests ; of bulk modulus find that the displacements answcl .
ing to ( 3 ) arc given by ( 6 ) .
The inconsistency consists in the that , , terms in so ) terms hile above it was lSStnled hat \amp ; c. .
' nished .
It thns ppears t the tion embodied 11 ( 3 ) and ( 6 ) is valid and complete only when does not , only the solid is at rest or movi with nniform velocity in the liquid .
Though th ictod , the sol otable from its simplicity and , .as applicable to any homogeneous solid ( free from cavities ) at rest in a liquid of density .
The values ( 3 ) for the stresses tpply irrcspcctire of the elasticity .
The displacements are iven by ( 6 ) only the 1 specics of is isotropic , but corresponding expressions are tcly for materials of complexity .
If for instance we have n respect to the planes , .
( 7 ) .
IIcre the thrce ) , ) \amp ; c. , correspo \ldquo ; .
dopted ipocies o itcness sscs ( conJ 1 Dr. C. Chree .
where where ( 8 ) ; ( 9 ) .
The surface equations to ) ttisfied by the solution are ( 10 ) .
The problem resolves itself into that of ellipsoid acted on solely by bodily forces derivable from the potcntlal ( .
This problem was solved by me in 1894 for isotropi .
materials , and in 1899 I extended the tion to aeolotropic ellipsoids .
can thus derive a satisfactory plementary solntion from the sources specified .
Finally adding the stresses of the lementary tlon to the stresses ( 3 ) , and the cements to the displacements ( 7 ) , we a consistent and complete solntion of the problem presented by a heavy ellipsoid in a homogeneons liquid , the action of the liquid is supposed that given by elementary hydrostatlcs .
S3 .
The solution , though simple 111 , co tcrms which of great length the ellipsoid three , and is of a complex kind of .
It will thus per aps ha suffice to select for illusora , tion the sinlple case of an isotropic sphcre of Denoting modulus ) , Poisson 's rntio by ?
, and riting for we have in fnll * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 101 .
58 , p. 39 ; )rterly J of Pure and Apply \amp ; ' , p. 338 .
'Camb . .
Soc. , 201 .
Elastic Solids at Rest or Iotion in a Elastic Solids at Rest or in Iotion in a Elastic Solids at Rest or in Iotion in a Elastic Solids at Rest or in Iotion in a Elastic Solids at Rest or in Iotion in a Elastic Solids at Rest or in Iotion in a Elastic Solids at Rest or in Iotion in a Elastic Solids at Rest or in Iotion in a ; ' ( 12 ) .
The terms in constitute ) called ) the snpplementary solution .
In the of the stresses and of the cements they are exactly the if the sphere vere under vitative force which the ordinary gravitational and which had for its accclerative the surfnce of the sphere This ction r ) action or repulsion veeu elements of the solid .
It is thus an ttraction when the sphere rises in a ier liquid , a repulsion when it sinks in htcr .
The smaller 1 \mdash ; 2 0 iu gclteral the less compressible the , the snlallel is the } } of this lmagiIlary gtive force tive to that of the pressnrc the other hand its tivo i ' idly with the slze of the Representing by dashed lettcrs the of the cements depending on ve Dr. C. Chree . .
At tho very ning of the motion , the expression inside the square bracket is positive for all values of ; but as increases it changes sign , first at the surface , last close to the centre of the sphere .
If represent the distances fallen when the expression vanishes at the surface and at the centre respectively , we havs . . .
( 14 ) .
is enormonsly large , must be extremely small for aIly o elastic material .
In reality , in order to bc instantaneously at rest , the sphere would require to be ted or acted on some ctenly suppressed force , or to be in the act of reversing some Otlsly impressed motion .
elastic strains and stresses might initially retain the impress of the pre-existing state of matters , and there thus special sources of lmcertainty affecting the tLPI)ility of ( 14 ) to actual hich should 1lot ) lost sight of .
S4 .
The prol ) just considered ' as how lmder a consistent dynamical system , prodllClng miform acceleratlo1l in straight line , there appear elastic strains and stresses which slmnthe action of ravitatio in the iu motion .
The itions postulated do llot anSlver exactly to happens when a solid moves through real liquid at the earth 's surface .
Under snch circumstances the action ) solid is not fully epresented by the hydrostatic .
If the fluid be " " perfect ordinary hdrodica teory 1 theo for the pressure on the fnce of the sphero , supposing the velocity , , .
, is vcrtical diameter .
now consider this the hypothesis that the velocity so small that terms in are ltegligible .
of ( 3 ) and ( 6 ) wo for the esses and displacemGllts , the matelinl supposed otropic , ; .
Lamb 's mics , ' Art .
91 .
Elastic Solids at or in a Liquid .
241 ( 17 ) .
Instead of ( 4 ) have AIso , , if be omiCted , we have constant .
This is , of course , only the , that the namical ynamlca ction of the be dding to the mass of the sphere that of of pose the constanb in ( 18 ) zero , As in first case considered , existeuce of in , conse , llakes a .
The stresses of the solnt mubt satisfy the surface equationS ( as vell as the bod stress eqnations : ( l9 ) .
It will be crved that the retention of the term iu in the respre snre has only modified ( reduced ) the ithout a the type of the supplementary .
It 1 ill thns sutIice to the complete expressions the )acemc ( mirs , iynitmics , ' A ; or sset 's reatiso on HydroDr .
C. Chree .
In obtaining this soJution we have neglected terms in , i.e. , terms in .
or in the expression ( 15 ) , while there appear in the solution terms containing Thus our work is consistcnt only when is small , and even when this is the case the fact that increases as involves a restriction which should not be overlooked .
It old not , I think , be a very difficuIt matter to obtain a complete solution answering to the full value ( 15 ) of .
Treating first as a constant , we could at once write down , from my for the isotropic elastic sphere , the displacements answering to the surface pressure ; but the explicit determination of the corresponding supplementary olution would be much more borions than in the first case treated above .
S5 .
When and are equal , aJld t is thus really constant , complete values of the stresses displacements answering to the surface pressure ( 15 ) are as follows:\mdash ; ; S6 .
In real liquids is more or less escnt , lrodynamical ctions h for the case of * s ' .
, vol. 14 , p. Elastic Solids at Rest .
in .
243 when the retarding action of viscosity neutralises the accele1'ation due to gravity , it is worth considering .
The hydrodynamical eally assnmes the velocity to be small , ( the ellipsoid to be emots from the surface and other ) oundaries as to be ctically in iufinite liquid .
It is not very difficult to deduce from the formlae in ' Hydrodynamics , ' Art .
296 , \mdash ; though I have not see1t the result notice -that the face action reduces to a force per nnit opposite to the direction of motion , being the perpendicular from the centle on the tangent plane , and .
The recognitiolt of this fact from the labour of considering the general expressions for the , which are of complicated nature .
As the motion ] ] is , the ) stress ; while the surface equations are ) the of the ellipsoid\mdash ; The surface equations are tisfied by ' .
The valucs tisfy t ) , vided .
As 1 ) hen the is over the of tho cllipsoid , ) imply equivalent to the condition that the is or that .
C. Chree .
where is a constant .
As to the value of , it has been proved that the total viscous resistance to the motion , where is the viscosity , and But this resistance is also equal to [ or to ) ] , thus Substituting for and , we have ( 27 ) .
The corresponding eIlts , supposilJg the material isotropic , ' ( 28 ) . .
The .
iu ( 2s ) coutnin II or scnt dhich cpth of the elemeub .
its distnnce from centrc of the cllipsoid .
The terms ining Cf .
' Hydrod3 mics , ' Art .
296 .
Solids at Rcst or in JIotio)b in a liiquid .
) on the other hand , depend largely on the shape of the Thns , denoting them by approximatcly , in tho case of a very elongated eilipsoid , hose long axis is vertical , ( 29 ) , except in the immediate icinity of the central section ws tako in place of ) .
In a very flat ellipsoid , ting to a disc , with t short axis vertic have ) ximately , ( 31 ) .
xcept cIosc to the nleter , the terms iu would bs tively n , while , \ldquo ; and old be small comto In the case the ) it is more convenient to record tho solutioit , } iz .
, ( 32 ) ; tion in S6 on the power of the velocit ) the to , the Mr. J. E. .
On the Hcat dissipated snrface as the perpendicular on the tangent plane .
In particular , if , in accordance with .
Allen 's experiments , *there be possible forms of fin al uniform motion for a sphere in which the resistance varies as tla$ or ( being the velocity ) , it was shown that the solution would still be of the form of ( 32 ) and ( 33 ) , provided the distribution of the viscous resistance happens to remain mchanged .
It was out that isotropic solid , free of cavities , at rest a liquid , the stresses are everywhere the same as if each element were rately subjected to the pressure answerlng to its depth ; but that when cavities exist in the solid the state of matters is altered .
As exanlple , complete solution was given for a hollow spherical shell fully inlmcrsed .
It was shown that , in a completely solid body , the greatest and maximum stress-difference theories tgreed in ting no tendency rnpture , ) that when cavities existed , it was othsrwise ; n1 particular , that in the spherical shell there is on either theory tcndency to rupture , gl'eatest at the lowest point , which approximately in a thin shell varies directly as the depth and lIlversely as the thickness of the shell .
( On the Heat dissipated by a Platinum Surface at Iemperatures .
Part -pressure ases.\ldquo ; By J. E. PETAVEL , A.M.I.C.E. , A.M.I. , John Harling Fellow of Owens College , Manchester .
micated by Professor SCHUSTER , .
Received February 7 , \mdash ; Read lIarch 7 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) The rate of cooling of hot in gases at pressures up to one ttmosphere has received COnsid attentio1l , but with regal.d to gases at high prcssures practically no data were up to the prese1lt lvailable .
It thought therefore that an expelJme e of the subject might prove of some interest .
The experiments were carried out with horizontal diator cilled in a strong stecl , the cnclosurc ) eiug ined n C. by tion .
It is that the which is dissipated by the may be expl.cssed by following ] where emissivity in C.G.S. mits totnl mount of heat dissiParts I , 1898 .

