A paper was read , entitled , " On the state of the Interior of the Earth .
" ByW .
Hopkins , Esq. A.M. , F.R.S. , Second Memoir .
" On the Phenomena of Precession and Nutation , assuming the Fluidity of the Interior of the Earth .
" In this memoir the author investigates the amount of the lunisolar precession and nutation , assuming the earth to consist of a solid spheroidal shell filled with fluid .
For the purpose of presenting the problem under its most simple form , he first supposes the solid shell to be bounded by a determinate inner spheroidal surface , of which the ellipticity is equal to that of the outer surface ; the change from the solidity of the shell to the fluidity of the included mass being , not gradual , but abrupt .
He also here supposes both the shell and the fluid to be homogeneous , and of equal density .
The author then gives the statement of the problem which he proposes to investigate ; the investigation itself , which occupies the remainder of the paper , being wholly analytical , and insusceptible of abridgement .
The following , however , are the results to which he is conducted by this laborious process : namely , that , on the hypo ?
thesis above stated , 1 .
The Precession will be the same , whatever be the thickness of the shell , as if the whole earth were homogeneous and solid .
2 .
The Lunar Nutation will be the same as for the homo ?
geneous spheroid to such a degree of approximation that the difference would be inappreciable to observation .
3 .
The Solar Nutation will be sensibly the same as for the homogeneous spheroid , unless the thickness of the shell be very nearly of a certain value , namely , something less than one quarter of the earth 's radius ; in which case this nutation might become much greater than for the solid spheroid .
4 .
In addition to the above motions of precession and nutation , the pole of the earth would have a small circular motion , depending en ?
tirely on the internal fluidity .
The radius of the circle thus described would be greatest when the thickness of the shell was the least : but the inequality thus produced would not , for the smallest thickness of the shell , exceed a quantity of the same order as the polar nutation , and for any but the most inconsiderable thickness of the shell would be entirely inappreciable to observation .
In his next communication , the author purposes considering the case in which both the solid shell and the enclosed fluid mass are of variable density .

