]\gt ; [ 183 ] V. surement of the Rate of Heat-Loss at Body Temperature by Convection , Radiation , and Evaporation .
* LEONABD HILL , F.R.S. , O. W. GRIFFITH , MARTIN FLACK .
Department Applied Physiology , Rcsearch Committee .
eccived September 27 , \mdash ; Read November 25 , 1915 .
Introdnction .
THE purpose of the research detailed in the foIlowing pages has been : ( 1 ) To investigate rate of cooling of ( 1 ) a dry and ( 2 ) a wet surface at body temperature under varying atmospheric conditions , using the kata-thermometer\mdash ; an instrument contrived by one of us ( L. H. ) for this purpose ; ( 2 ) To calibrate this instrument so that the rate of cooling can be expressed in millicalories per second at body temperature ; ( 3 ) To separate and measure the cooling produced in still air by ( a ) convection , ( b ) radiation , evaporation ; ( 4 ) To measure the cooling effect of wind of varying known velocity , and to calibrate kata-thermometer as an anemometer\mdash ; an observatio of value since this instrument is sensitive not only to a uni-directional stream , but to every eddy , such as cannot be estimated by any vane anemometer ; ( 5 ) measure the effect on the rate of cooling of variations in the barometric pressure ; ( 6 ) To deduce from the readings of the wet and dry kata-thermometer , taken in still air , the rate of evaporation from a wet surface at body and to establish the relation of this rate of evaporation to ( a ) vapoul pressure , ( b ) barometric pressure , and ( c ) of the atmosphere ; The part of this paper is due to O. W. ; the cxerimetltal carried out by us .
The death of O. ) has us and the Physics mcIlt of the London Hospital Icdical Collcgc of his help .
We arc much in ( lebted to Prof. C. H. IF .
R.S. , who kind cnough to read the paper , which complete at the time of .G. 's .
IIc has given us the help of his c.riticism and also references to several ) ) were lmkoowIl to us . .
H. and M. VOL. CCVII ) .
) ) .
184 IsIESSRS .
LONARD JJILL , O. W. GRIFFITH , AND MARTIN FLACK ON THE ( 7 ) To determine how this rate of evaporation is affected by wind of varying known velocity ; ( 8 ) By these means to arrive at a method of measuring the relative rates of heatloss to which the skin is exposed by convection , radiation and evaporation , under varying atmospheric.conditions .
For purposes of controlling the heating and ventilation of rooms the thermometer has been used and has acquired an authority which it does not deserve .
The dry bulb thermometer indicates the average temperature of the piece of wood to which it is attached , influenced , as it is , by the all the objects around it and the atmosphere in which it is suspended .
It affords no measure of the rate of cooling of the humall body , and is , , a very indifferent instrument for indicating atmospheric conditions which are comfortable and healthy to man .
It is not the actual temperature of the air but the rate of cooling which affects the cutaneous nerve , by determining the difference between the temperature of the surface of the skin and the blood temperature in the deeper layers .
The amount of blood in the cutaneous vessels , the rate of evaporation of water from the skin , and the moistness of the skin surface fluence our sensations of comfort or discomfort .
The ceaseless variation in the rate of cooling , as in outdoor conditions , relieves us from monotony .
A bracing wind cools the skin , tones up the muscles of the body , voluntary and involuntary , and impels us to take exercise to keep warm .
The augmented metabolism leads to increased oxidation of food-stuffs , deeper ventilation of lungs , more efficient lnassage of the belly organs by the breathing and lnuscular exercise , better appetite , more perfect digestion and less bacterial decomposition in the bowels , more vigorous circulation of the blood , thus in every way promoting bealth .
Physiological bas shown that it is not the chemical purity , but the physical conditions of the atmosphere which so potentIy upon us .
It is the disaffection , or mo1loto ous stimulation , of the vast field of cutaneous and nasal nerves on the ontside of the body , not the absorption of poisonous inhaled products into the blood , which occasion the discomfort of badly ventilated and crowded rooms .
Monotony of the atmospheric conditions and reduction of the body metabolism by diminished rate of cooling , with consequent loss of nervous tone and disordered digestion , are , we believe , the chief causes of the ill effects of confined sedentary occupations .
The workers in such occupations are exposed to massive bacterial infection from the carriers of disease , coupled with a reduction of immunity resulting from their sedentary occup tion in ovel-heated windless , contaminated , as it may be , with products of imperfect combustion , and with a dust which predisposes to infection .
enfeebled state of ealth , together with massive infection , causes the epidemics of , so in winter .
Outdoor workers , exposed to cold and inclement weather , are larly free frum such affections .
It is , then , of the first importance that there should be a means of measuring the rate of cooling , and MEASUREMENT OF THE RATE OF HEAT-LOSS AT BODy TEMPERATURE , .
185 estimating in this respect the difference between the atmospheric conditions to which men are exposed , outdoors and indoors , in tropical , temperate and arctic climates .
Searching the literature we have discovered that nearly a century a Dr. HEBEBDEN ( 8 ) , suggested the importance in estimating comfortable and healthy conditions , of measuring the rate of cooling at body temperature by uing up a thermometer and measul.ing the time it took to cool a degree two .
His valuable conception fell into oblivion .
IRate of cooling has been studied by physicists , but not by hygienists .
Against HEBERDEN'S method was the fact that no two are alike in their heat capacity as measured by their water equivalent .
When one of us ( L. H. ) independently conceived this method of enquiry and introduced the kata-thermometer he thought that the same glass blower working to scale might turn out bulbs sufficiently like to give the same .
Experience of the first batch of instruments confirmed this view , for the kata-thermometers cooled under the same conditions in approximately the same time .
Further investigation , however , has shown that other batches of instruments , and even those of the same batch , may vary , and that it is necessary to calibrate each instrument by determining its water equivalent .
We have come across two other investigators who have made efforts to measure rate of cooling from the hygienic point of view .
KISSKALT ( 17 ) , in order to investigate rooms of uneven temperature , used a glass bulb filled with mercury in which was immersed a thermometer .
He measured the ater equivalent of the apparatus ; it was about 120 calories .
He heated his instrument and determined the it took to cool each degree from F. downwards .
He does not seem to have there developed this line of enquiry .
J. R. ) contrived an instrument which he termed a psuchrainometer ( I become cold ) which traces on moving er strip a continuous record of electrical ting needed to maintain at blood heat a body freely exposed to the atmosphere .
in conjunction with this an anemolneter and self-recording thermometer he deduced an empirical formula giving the of cooling as a function of temperature and wind velocity .
Neither of these investigators seems to have paid any attention to the rate of cooling of the wet instrument , which is of the greater importance .
The -thermometer .
* \mdash ; by means of which the observations recorded investigation were taken\mdash ; is an instrument desig1led narily for the of its rate of cooling when its telnperature to of body .
It consists of an alcohol with a cylindrical ) diameter , strument may ) taitled from Mr. Hicks , 8 , .
MESSRS .
LEONARD HILL , O. W. GRIFFITH , AND MARTIN FLACK ON THE Fahrenheit from F. The base terminates in a ) small reservoir which serves the double purpose of acting as a safety overflow reservoir in case of accidental overheating of the bulb and of enabling the instrument to be heated well above the point at which observation has to be made in order to give time for transferring it to a suitable position for reading , and also to ensure that , by then , it has settled down to a regular rate of cooling .
The distance of the top graduation mark ( 110 ) from the reservoir is about 13 cm .
For the purposes of taking the wet readings the bulb is covered with a " " glove\ldquo ; of open mesh cotton material , $ and , after dipping the instrument in hot water until the spirit rises just into the reservoir , the superfluous water is shaken off before replacing the kata-thermometer in position for reading .
The object being to determine the cooling power of the air in the neighbourhood of it is essential that the thermal capacity of the bulb should be such that the cooling is neither too fast nor too slow to be measured with accuracy .
This means that the errors in reading the thermometer and the stop-watch must be of the same order .
To determine how far that is practicable , our preliminary investi- gations were directed towards examinin the behaviour of the instrument under all possible conditions of temperature and humidity of the atmosphere surrounding it .
Preliminary .\mdash ; Owing to the size of the bulb we experienced some difficulty at the start in obtaining an enclosure sufficiently big for its general mean temperature to remain constant while a series of observations were being taken , on account of the tendency of the kata-thermometer to heat up the surrounding air .
After some trials the chamber described was constructed and found to answer the purpose exactly .
The chamber was a cube of 17 inches .
The water jacket surroumding it communicated with a tube leading to the hot and cold water supply .
The jacket in the detachable front communicated with that surrounding the rest of the chamber , so that the whole was filled with water at the same temperature .
The jacket was emptied by detaching the tubs from the hot and cold supply , and letting the water run out into the sink .
By these means the chamber could quickly be brought to any required temperature .
A tube passed to the bottom of the jacket , and by blowing air through this the water the jacket could be stirred during the taking of observations .
In the front of the chamber were inserted two glass observation discs through which , by means of a laryngoscope lnirror and a lamp , the instruments , tho finge ] 01 a lady 's " " ] )

