158 Dr. E. Klein .
[ Mar. 3 .
same , and therefore the distance we can speak ; through is just the same whether we use a single or double wire circuit .
This is owing to the fact that though in the latter case we double the total resistance , we halve the total capacity , and therefore the product remain* the same .
The difference between copper and iron is clearly due to self-induction , or to the electromagnetic inertia of the latter , and the difference between copper overground and copper underground is due to the facility that the leakage of insulators offers to the rapid discharge to earth at innumerable points , of the static charge , which in gutta-percha-covered wire cap find an exit only at the ends .
It is also evident that there is no difficulty in working telephones through underground wires , even though they attain 50 miles length , and in fact it would be better to work underground with proper copper wire from London to Brighton , than to use iron wires along the railway telegraph poles , owing to the absence of external disturbances in the former case .
The limit of working of different insulated wires is easily obtained by equation ( 2 ) , and the following table gives that information for different gutta-percha-covered wires .
* No. k. r. Limit of speech .
20 .
ii 0-270 mf .
45'00 ohms .
32 miles .
18 7* 0-250 , / 23-00 " 46 " 16 4 0-240 " 13 -00 " 62 " 107 lbs. 150 lbs. 0*290 " 10-25 " 64 " The top number indicates the gauge of " wire , and the lower number that of the gutta-percha .
IV .
" The Etiology of Scarlet Fever .
" By E. Klein , M.D. , F.R.S. , Lecturer on General Anatomy and Physiology at the Medical School of St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , London .
Received February 23 , 1887 .
The investigation , the results of which .
I now record , was commenced at the end of December , 1885 .
It arose out of an inquiry into the prevalence of scarlatina in different quarters of London , under1887 .
] TlieEtiology of Scarlet Fever .
taken by the Medical Department of the Local Government Board as a part of its business of investigating local epidemics .
That inquiry had demonstrated milk from a farm at Hendon as the cause of the scarlatina , and had adduced strong circumstantial evidence that the scarlatina had been distributed , not in the whole , but in certain sections of the Hendon milk , and further that the ability of the sections of milk service to convey the disease had been related to a malady affecting particular cows .
This evidence against particular cows at the Hendon farm could not and did not aspire at furnishing direct and definite proof of the connexion of this cow disease with scarlet fever of man , for the inductive methods usually employed by the Medical Department of the Local Government Board when applied to inquiries about epidemic spread of scarlatina can for obvious reasons yield but circumstantial evidence .
As on various former occasions , so also on this , the Medical Department sought to put the above conclusions to the test of scientific experiment .
This task was delegated to me by the Board .
The first part of this work has been published in the recently issued volume of the Reports of the Medical Officer of the Local Government Board for 1885-1886 .
I have therein shown that the suspected cows from the Hendon farm that had been made the object of special study , showed besides a skin disease\#151 ; consisting in ulcers on the udder and teats , and in sores and scurfy patches and loss of hair in different parts of the skin\#151 ; also a general disease of the viscera , notably the lungs , liver , spleen , and kidney , which resembled the disease of these organs in acute cases of human scarlatina .
I have further shown that the diseased tissues of the ulcers on the teats and udder produced on inoculation into the skin of calves a similar local disease , which in its incubation and general anatomical characters proved identical with the ulceration of the cow ; and further , that from the ulcers of the cow a species of micrococcus was isolated by cultivation in artificial nutritive media , which micro-organism in its mode of growth on nutritive gelatine , on Agar-Agar mixture , on blood serum , in broth , and in milk , proved very peculiar and different from other species of micrococci hitherto examined .
With such cultivation of the micrococcus I have produced by subcutaneous inoculation in calves a disease which in its cutaneous and visceral lesions ( lung , liver , spleen , and kidney ) bears a very close resemblance both to the disease that was observed in the Hendon cows as well as to human scarlatina .
The second part of the work , carried out during 1886-1887 for the Medical Department , had for its object to investigate whether or no the disease , human scarlatina , is associated with the identical micrococcus , and whether this , if obtainable from the human subject , is capable of producing in the bovine species the same disease as was observed in the Hendon cows and in the calves experimented upon 160 The Etiology of Scarlet Fever .
[ Mar. 3 , from the latter source .
The definite and clear proof that this is really the case has now been obtained , and the evidence I now bring to the notice of the Royal Society .
On examining acute cases of human scarlatina\#151 ; for which opportunity I owe great thanks to Dr. Sweeting , the Medical Superintendent of the Fulham Fever Hospital\#151 ; I soon ascertained the fact that there is present in the blood of the general circulation a species of micrococcus , which on cultivation in nutritive gelatine , Agar-Agar mixture , blood serum , and other media , proved to be in every respect identical with that obtained from the Hendon cows .
Out of eleven acute cases of scarlet fever examined in this direction , four yielded positive results : three were acute cases between the third and sixth day of illness with high fever temperature , and the fourth was a case of death from scarlatina on the sixth day .
In all these four cases several drops of blood were used , after the customary methods and under the required precautions for establishing cultivations in a series of tubes containing sterilised nutritive gelatine , and generally only a very small number of these tubes revealed after an incubation of several days one or two colonies of the micrococcus .
This shows that the micrococci were present in the blood in but small numbers .
Having ascertained the identity in morphological and cultural respects of the micrococcus of the blood of human scarlatina with the organism obtained from the Hendon cows , the action of the cultivations of both these sets of micrococci was then tested on animals and the results compared .
It was found that mice\#151 ; wild mice better than tame ones\#151 ; on inoculation as well as feeding , became affected in exactly the same manner , no matter whether the one set of cultivations or the other was used .
The great majority of these animals died after between seven and twenty days ; the post-mortem examination revealed great congestion of the lungs , amounting in some cases to consolidation of portions of the organ , congestion of the liver , congestion and swelling of the spleen , great congestion and general disease of the cortical part of the kidney .
From the blood of these animals , taken directly from the heart , cultivations were established in nutritive gelatine , and hereby the existence of the same species of micrococci was revealed ; they possessed all those special characters distinguishing the cultivations of the micrococcus of the Hendon cows and of the human scarlatina .
In the third and concluding section of the work , cultivations of the micrococcus of two cases of human scarlatina were used for infecting Calves ; two calves were inoculated and two were fed from each set of cultivations .
All eight animals developed disease , both cutaneous and visceral , identical to that produced in the calves that had been last year infected with the micrococcus from the Hendon cows .
From the heart 's blood of calves thus infected from human Presents .
scarlatina the same micrococcus was recovered by cultivation , possess the It must be evident from these observations that the danger of scarlatinal infection from the disease in the cow is real , and that towards the study and careful supervision of this cow disease all efforts ought to be directed in order to check the spread of scarlet fever in man .
It is also obvious that in the agricultural interest alone investigations of this cow disease are greatly called for .
ing all the characters shown by the cultures of the micrococcus of Hendon cows , and of the cases of human scarlatina .
Presents , March 3 , 1887 .
Transactions .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circulars .
Yol .
VI .
No. 55. .
4to .
Baltimore 1887 .
The University .
Batavia:\#151 ; Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschap-pen .
Notulen .
Deel XXIY .
Afl .
2 .
8vo .
1886 ; Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal- , Land- en Yolkenkunde .
Deel XXXI .
Afl .
2 ( Yervolg ) \amp ; 3 .
8vo .
Batavia 1886 ; Neder-landsch-Indisch Plakaatboek , 1602-1811 .
Deel III .
1678-1709 .
8vo .
Batavia1886 ; De Yestiging van het Nederlandsche Gezag over de Banda-Eilanden 1599-1621 .
Large 8vo .
Batavia 1886 ; Realia .
Register op de Generale Resolution van het Kasteel Batavia .
1632-1805 .
Deel III .
4to .
Batavia 1886 .
The Society .
Bombay:\#151 ; Literary Society of Bombay .
Index to the Transactions , Yols .
I-III , and to the Journals , Bombay Branch , Royal Asiatic Society , Yols .
I-XYII , with a Historical Sketch of the Society .
8vo .
Bombay 1886 .
The Bombay Branch , R.A. Society. .
Brisbane:\#151 ; Geographical Society of Australasia , Queensland Branch .
Proceedings and Transactions .
Yol .
II .
Part 1 .
8vo .
Brisbane 1886 .
The Society .
Brussels:\#151 ; Academy Royale des Sciences , \amp ; c. Annuaire .
1887 .
12mo .
Bruxelles 1887 .
The Academy .
London:\#151 ; Mineralogical Society .
Mineralogical Magazine and Journal .
Vol. YII .
No. 33 .
8vo .
London 1886 .
The Society .
Physical Society .
Proceedings .
Yol .
YIII .
Part 3 .
8vo . .
1887 .
The Society .
Royal Institute of British Architects .
Journal of Proceedings .
Vol. III .
No. 9 .
4to .
London 1887 .
The Institute .
Society of Chemical Industry .
Journal .
Yol .
YI .
No. 1 .
Folio .
London 1887 .
The Society .
VOL. XLII .
' N

