On the Maxwell-BoItzmann Doctrine of Kinetic .
397 April 28 , 1892 .
Mr. JOHN EVANS , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Treasurer and Vice-President , followed by The LORD KELVIN , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On a Decisive Test-case disproving the Maxwell-Boltzmann Doctrine regarding Distribution of Kinetic Energy .
" By The Lord Kelvin , Pres. R.S. Received April 6 , 1892 .
The doctrine referred- to is that stated by Maxwell in his paper " On the Average Distribution of Energy in a System of Material Points " ( ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Trans. , ' May 6,1878 , republished in vol. 2 of Maxwell 's ' Scientific Papers ' ) in the following words : " In the ultimate state of the system , the average kinetic energy of two given portions of the system must be in the ratio of the number of degrees of freedom of those portions .
" Let the system consist of three bodies , A , B , C , all movable only in one straight line , KHL : B being a simple vibrator controlled by a spring so stiff that when , at any time , it has very nearly the whole energy of the system , its extreme excursions on each side of its position of equilibrium are small : C and A , equal masses : 9 , unacted on by force except when it strikes L , a fixed barrier , and when it strikes or is struck by B : A unacted on by force except when .it strikes or is struck by B , aod when it is at less than a certain distance , HK , from a fixed repel-ent barrier , K , repelling with a force , E , varying according to ^ any awe \gt ; or constant , when A is between K and H , but becoming infinitely jp'eat when ( if at any time ) A reaches K , and goes infinitesimally | beyond it .
Suppose now A , B , C to be all moving to and fro .
The collisions between B and the equal bodies-A and C on its two sides must I ^balise , and keep equal , the average kinetic energy of A , immediately bef 're and after these collisions , to the average kinetic energy of C. l'IICe\gt ; when the times of A being in the space between H and K are V'L .
LI .
2 E 398 Maxwell-Boltzmann Doctrine of Kinetic Energy .
[ Apr. 28 , included in the average , the average of the sum of the potential and kinetic energies of A is equal to the average kinetic energy of C. But the potential energy of A at every point in the space HK is positive , because , according to our supposition , the velocity of A is diminiiljS\#171 ; during every time of its motion from H towards K , and increased the same value again during motion from K to H. Hence , the average kinetic energy of A is less than the average kinetic enei^JjT of C !
This is a test-case of a perfectly representative kind for the theory of temperature , and it effectually disposes of the assumption that \#169 ; temperature of a solid or liquid is equal to its average kinetic eneifjjy per atom , which Maxwell pointed out as a consequence of the supposed theorem , and which , believed to be thus established , has b\#174 ; \#169 ; o 1892 ] On Turacin , an Animal Pigment containing Copper , 399 largely taught , and fallaciously used , as a fundamental proposition in thermodynamics .
It is in truth only for an approximately " perfect " gas , that is to say , an assemblage of molecules in which each molecule moves for comparatively long times in lines very approximately straight , and experiences changes of velocity and direction in comparatively-very short times of collision , and it is only for the kinetic energy of the translatory motions of the molecules of the " perfect gas , " that the temperature is equal to the average kinetic energy per molecule , as first assumed by Waterston , and afterwards by Joule , and first proved by Maxwell .
II .
" Researches on Turacin , an Animal Pigment containing .
Copper : Part II .
" By A. H. Church , M.A. , F.R.S.* Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Academy of Arts , London .
Received April 2 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is in continuation of one read before the Society in May , 1869.* It contains an account of observations made by other investigators on tnracin and on the occurrence of copper in animals ; a table of the geographical distribution of the Touracas , and a list of the twenty-five known species ; a chart of turacin spectra ( for whiph the author is indebted to the kindness of Dr. IVlaclVlunii ) ; and a further examination of the chemical characters and the composition of turacin .
The more important positions established by the present inquiry are these :\#151 ; .
1 .
The constant occurrence in eighteen out of the twenty-five known species of Musophagidce of a definite organic pigment containing , as an essential constituent , about 7 per cent , of copper .
2 .
The " turacin-bearers " comprise all the known species of the three genera , Turacus , Gallirex , and Musophaga , while from all the species of the three remaining genera of the family Musophagidce , namely , Corythceola , SchizorJiis , and Gymnoschizorhis , turacin is absent .
Furthermore , the zoological arrangement of the genera constituting this family is in accord with that founded on the presence of turacin .
3 .
The spectrum of turacin in alkaline solution shows , besides the two dark absorption bands previously figured , a faint broad band on ehher side of line IP , and extending from A 496 to A 475 .
4 .
The spectrum of isolated turacin in ammoniacal solution shows , besides the three bands already named , a narrow fourth band , lying 'u the less-refrangible side of line D , and extending from A 605 to * * Phil. Trans. , * vol. 159 , pp. 627\#151 ; 636 .
2 e 2

