234 Dr. W. B. Carpenter on Nature of the [ peb 4 afforded him by Colonel Milward , It .
A. ( Superintendent of the Laboratories , Royal Arsenal , Woolwich ) , and to Mr. Davison , his chief assistant .
Like thanks he wishes to return also to Messrs. Pontifex and " Wood .
Lastly , he wishes to record the valuable aid he has received in making these experiments and calculations from his assistant , Mr. " W " Worby Beaumont .
February 4 , 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read I. " Remarks on Professor Wyville Thomson 's Preliminary Notes on the Nature of the Sea-bottom procured by the Soundings of H.M.S. 'Challenger .
' ' ' By William B. Carpenter , M.D. , LL. D. , E.R.S. Received Dec. 29 , 1874 .
The extreme interest of two of the questions started and partly discussed in Professor Wyville Thomson 's communication will be deemed , I trust , a sufficient reason for my offering such contributions as my own experience furnishes towards their solution .
The first of these questions is , whether the by the accumulation of whose shells the Globigerina-ooze is being formed on the deep-sea bottom , live and multiply on that bottom , or pass their whole lives in the superjacent water ( especially in its upper stratum ) , only subsiding to the bottom when dead .
Having previously held the former opinion , Prof. Wyville Thomson states that he has now been led to adopt the latter , by the results of Mr. Murray 's explorations of the surface and sub-surface waters with the tow-net\#151 ; which results concur with the previous observations of MulleL Haeckel , Major Owen , and others , in showing that Globigerince , in common with many other Foraminifera , have a pelagic habitat ; while the close relation which they further indicate between the surface-fauna of any particular locality and the materials of the organic deposit at the bottom , appears to Prof. Wyville Thomson to warrant the conclusion that the latter is altogether derived from the former .
Now without in the least degree calling in question the correctness of these observations , I venture to submit , first , that they bear a different interpretation ; and second , that this interpretation is required by other facts , of which no account seems to have been taken by Prof. Wyville Thomson and his coadjutor .
In this , as in many other instances , I '\lt ; \#166 ; ; '5 .
] Sea-bottom procured by H.M.S. ( Challenger ' 235 xeve it will prove that the truth lies between two extreme views , fit the Olobigerince live on the bottom is a position clearly no longer eible ; but that they live and multiply in the upper waters only , and ntj sink to the bottom after death , seems to me a position no more f able than the preceding : and I shall now adduce the evidence which t tears to me at present to justify the conclusion ( I refrain from express-ii myself more positively , because I consider the question still open to instigation ) , that whilst the Olobigerince are pelagic in an earlier stage of tlir lives , frequenting the upper stratum of the ocean , they sink to if bottom whilst still living , in consequence of the increasing thickness rbheir calcareous shells , and not only continue to live on the sea-bed , tr probably multiply there\#151 ; perhaps there exclusively .
Chat there is no a priori improbability in their doing so , is proved by 11 abundant evidence in my possession of the existence of Foramini-fad life at abyssal depths .
The collections made during the ' Porcupine1 Seditions of 1869 and 1870 yielded a large number of those v types which construct their " tests " by the cementation of sand-f ins only to be obtained on the bottom ; and these were almost the oy Foraminifera , except Olobigerince and Orbulince , which came up in t 2435 fathoms dredging .
Again , many Foraminifera , both arenace-o .
and shelly , were brought up from great depths , attached to shells , sues , \amp ; c. , that must have lain at the bottom .
Further , among the " itreous " Foraminifera , the most common deep-sea types , except those othe Globigerine family , were Cristellarians with shells so thick and nssive as to be ( it may be safely affirmed ) incapable of being floated i the animals which form them ; while among the " porcellanous " Fora-raifera , the Biloeulince and Triloculince were equally distinguished by a ' ssiveness of shell , which seem , d to forbid the idea that they could have i ited subsequently to that stage of their lives in which this massive-\#174 ; s had been acquired .
Of the existence of living Olobigerince in great numbers in the stratum ( water immediately above the bottom , at from 500 to 750 fathoms nth , I am able to speak with great positiveness .
It several times hap-t led , during the Third Cruise of the * Porcupine * in 1869 , that the 'ter brought up by the water-bottle from immediately above the Glo-t erina-ooze was quite turbid ; and this turbidity was found ( by filtra- ; n ) to depend , not upon the suspension of amorphous particles diffused trough the water , but upon the presence of multitudes of young Olobi-f 'ince , which were retained upon the filter , the water passing through it .ite clear .
The thin shells of these specimens , exhibiting very distinct teudopodial orifices , contrasted strongly with the larger and thicker fells of the specimens brought up by the sounding-apparatus from the Ittom immediately beneath , in which the shells are thick and those .ifices obscure .
It is obvious that if this extraordinary abundance of iobigerine life in the bottom-water was the result of subsidence from Dr. W. B. Carpenter on the Nature of the ^ the surface or sub-surface stratum , and was merely preparatory to th deposit of the shells on the sea-bed , there should have been a com spondence in size and condition between the floating shells and those lying on the bottom immediately beneath them ; whereas no contra could be more complete , the impression given by the superficial aspect they respectively presented having been fully confirmed by subsequer careful investigation .
Prof. Wyville Thomson and Mr. Murray , who notice this contra^ attribute it to the death of the shells which have subsided to the bottom-being apparently unaware that the observations of Dr. Wallich , wit which my own are in entire accordance , leave no reasonable ground f doubt that it is a consequence of their continued life .
Por it is clear shown , by making thin transparent sections of the thick-shelled Old gerince ( an operation which needs a dexterity only to be acquired by loi practice , and which is much facilitated by an ingenious device invent by Dr. Wallich * ) , that the change of external aspect is due to t remarkable exogenous deposit ( a rudiment of the " intermediate skeletoi of higher Poraminifera ) which is formed , after the full growth of t Globigerina has been attained , upon the outside of the proper chambt wall\#151 ; so completely masking its pseudopodial orifices , that Prof. Huxley one time denied their existence .
This deposit is not only many tin thicker than the original chamber-wall , but it often contains flask-shap cavities opening from the exterior , and containing sarcode prolonged ii it from the sarcodic investment of the shell .
Illustrations of this curie structure are given by Dr. Wallich in figs. 17 and 18 of Plate vi .
of 1 ' North-Atlantic Sea-bed ; ' and I here subjoin a representation of kindly given me by Dr. Wallich twelve years ago , which further sho Section of Shell of , show the distinction between the original pro wall of the chambers and the second exogenous deposit , with the flask-sha ; cavities in the latter opening extern !
and containing sarcode like that which the chambers .
that the specimen from which it was taken had both its chambers a the flask-shaped cavities of the exogenous deposit filled with sarcode J distinguishable in any respect from that of the floating specimens .
H these important observations ( which had not been made public when * Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Natural History , 1861 , viii .
p. 58 .
It'S .
] Sea-bottom procured by H.M.S. ( Challenger.323 it -4fet o\#163 ; my ' Introduction to the Study of the Foraminifera ' comprising githGlobigerine family passed through the press , but which I have my-)- se subsequently confirmed in every particular ) it seems an almost inevit-n:\gt ; . !
inference that the subsidence of the to the bottom is the t resequence , not of their death , but of the increasing thickness and p wght of their shells , produced by living action .
As long as the number leoiegments continues to increase , the carbonate of lime separated by the gKodic body from the circumambient water goes to form the walls of \#166 ; a adtional chambers ; but when this chamber-formation ceases ( which rally occurs when the shell consists of either 12 or 16 segments ) , it -applied to thicken the walls of the chambers already formed ; and fm the rapid subsidence of the Globigerince taken up from the sea-\gt ; fcom when thrown into a jar of sea-water , it seems to me inconceiv-t ; that they can be floated by their animal inhabitants when once the e genous deposit has attained any considerable thickness .
That the Globigerince which have subsided to the bottom continue to b* there , is further indicated by the condition of the sarcodic contents .
c their shells .
In any sample of ooze that I have seen 1 bught up by the dredge or the sounding-apparatus , part of the shells t('esumably those of the surface-layer ) were filled with a sarcode body .
( .'responding in condition with that of Foraminifera known to live on -i ii sea-bed , and retaining the characteristic form of the organism after n te removal of the shell by dilute acid .
As Dr. Wallich pointed out .1 ( North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' p. 139 ) , the sarcode of these is viscid , and .
blined to coalesce again when crushed ; the shell has a vivid but light imt-sienna colour , and sarcodic bosses , like retracted pseudopodia , are rtinguishable upon its exterior .
The only misgiving I ever had in regard the living condition of the Globigerince presenting these characters , is caused by the absence of any pseudopodial extensions ; and this urce of doubt has been now removed by the statement of Prof. ryville Thomson , that no pseudopodia have ever been observed by Mr. urray to be put forth by the Globigerince captured in surface-waters.-\#151 ; i the same sample will be found shells distinguishable from the preding by their dingy look and greyish colour , by the want of consistence id viscidity in their sarcode contents , and by the absence of any external reodie investment ; these are presumably dead .
Other shells , again , *6 entirely empty ; and even when the surface-stratum is formed of erfect Globigerince , the character of the deposit soon changes as it is faced downwards .
" The sediment , " as was correctly stated by Prof , i^yville Thomson , " gradually becomes more compact ; and a slight grey olour ( due , probably , to the decomposing organic matter ) becomes more ronounced , while perfect shells of Globigerina almost disappear , frag-ents become smaller , and calcareous mud , structureless and in a fine " ate of division , is in greatly preponderating proportion " ( ' Depths of He Sea , ' p. 410 ) .
These facts seem to me to mark very strongly the 238 Dr. W. B. Carpenter on the Nature of the [ p^ 4 distinction between the living surface-layer and the dead sub-surface layer , and to show that there is nothing in the condition of the Deep Sea that is likely to prevent or even to retard the decomposition of the dead sarcode bodies of Olobigerince .
We know that oxygen is present in Oceanic water , even to its abyssal depths , in sufficient proportion for the maintenance of Animal life ; and what suffices for this , must be adequate to promote the decomposition of organic matter .
There is , moreover , a significant indication of the undecomposed condition of the sarcode bodies of the Olobigerince of the surface-layer , in the fact that they serve as food to various higher animals which live on the same bottom .
This was first pointed out by Dr. Wallich , who found that the contents of the stomachs of the Ophiocomce brought up in his 1260 fathoms sounding , consisted of a number of fresh-looking Olobigerince more or less broken up , minute yellow amorphous particles , and a few oil-globules ( ' North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' p. 145 ) .
And I have subsequently verified his statement in many other cases * .
It seems to me clear , from the foregoing facts , that the onus probandi rests on those who maintain that the Olobigerince do not live on the bottom ; and such proof is altogether wanting .
The most cogent evidence in favour of that proposition would be furnished by the capture , floating in the upper waters , of the large thick-shelled specimens which are at present only known as having been brought up from the sea-bed .
And the capture of such specimens would only prove that even in this condition the Olobigerince can float ; it would not show that they cannot also live on the bottom .
That the Olobigerince not only live , but , on the Sea-bottom , is indicated by the presence ( as already stated ) of enormous multitudes of very young specimens in the water immediately overlying it .
And thus all we at present know of the life-history of this most important type seems to lead to the conclusion , that whilst in the earlier stages of their existence they are inhabitants of the upper waters , they sink to the bottom on reaching adult age , in consequence of the increasing thickness of their shells , that they propagate there ( whether by gemmation or sexual generation is not known ) , and that the young , rising to the surface , repeat the same history .
I now proceed to show that the relation between the surface-fauna and the bottom-deposit is by no means as constant as Prof. Wyville Thomson and Mr. Murray affirm it to be .
It may be taken as proved that there is no want of Poraminiferal B*0 in the Mediterranean .
Prof. W. 0 .
Williamson long ago pointed * Thus Man indirectly draws sustenance from the ; for the Cod he fishes on the Faroe Banks chiefly live on the which swarm there , again on the Globigerince , whilst the Globigevinseem to draw their sustenance o the organic matter universally diffused through sea-water , making it a broth !
l|5 .
] Sea-bottom procured by H.M.S. f Challenger .
' 239 # the " white mud " of the Levant is mainly a Foraminifera !
deposit ; f\gt ; und a similar mud covering the bottom along the Tripoli coast ; Mr. .[ Iwyn Jeffreys has dredged Foraminifera in abundance in the Bay of Sizzia , Captain Spratt in the ALgean , Oscar Schmidt in the Adriatic , and tiyself at various points in the Western basin along the northern coast n Africa .
That Foraminifera , especially , abound in its \lt ; face-water at Messina , is testified by Haeckel in the passage cited by Bf .
Wyville Thomson ; and when it is considered how large an influx tAtlantic water is constantly entering through the Strait of Gibraltar , 1 is being diffused throughout the Mediterranean basin , and how hourable is its temperature-condition , it can scarcely be doubted that if r doctrine now upheld by Prof. Wyville Thomson were correct , the ( i)osit of Globigerina-shells over the whole bottom-area ought to be aabundant as it is in the Atlantic under corresponding latitudes .
Yet iiound the deeper bottoms , from 300 fathoms downwards , entirely cititute of Globigerine as of higher forms of Animal life ; and this was is my own experience only , but was also that of Oscar Schmidt , who i de a similar exploration of the Adriatic .
In my first visit to the Medi-tranean , in the 'Porcupine ' ( 1870 ) , many hundredweight of the fine ud brought up by the dredge from great depths in the Western basin re laboriously sifted , and the siftings carefully examined , without Inging to light more than a stray drift-shell here and there .
And in f second visit , in the ' Shearwater '(1871 ) , I examined all the samples i bottom brought up by the sounding-apparatus from great depths in ie Eastern basin , with the same result\#151 ; giving all.the more care to this .amination , because Capt. Nares ( probably through not having kept oarate in his mind the results of the deeper and of the shallower tindings which he had previously made in the Mediterranean ) assured ) that I should find minute shells imbedded in the mud .
I can see no other way of accounting for the absence of ze from the bottom of the Mediterranean , save on its shallow borders , an by attributing it to the unfavourable nature of the influences affect- ?
the bottom-life of this basin : that is to say , the gradual settling-down the fine sedimentary deposit which forms the layer of inorganic mud erywhere spread over its deeper bottom , and the deficiency of oxygen id excess of carbonic acid which I have shown to prevail in its abyssal aters giving them the character of a stagnant pool\#151 ; these influences 'ting either singly or in combination .
Another fact of which Prof. Wyville Thomson is fully cognizant , and 1 which he formerly attached considerable importance as indicative of ie bottom-life of the Globigerince , is unnoticed in his recent eommunica-011 .
I refer to the singular limitation of the oze to the warm area " of the sea-bed between the North of Scotland and the aroe Islands .
It will be recollected by those who have read my Lightning ' and ' Porcupine ' Reports on the exploration of this region , 240 Dr. W. B. Carpenter on the Nature of the [ Feb. that whilst the whole upper stratum , from the surface to a depth of frc 100 to 150 fathoms , has the temperature of the warm flow coming from the S.W. , and whilst this temperature falls so gradually in ti \#171 ; warm area " with increase of depth as to be still as high as 43 ' Fal at a depth of 600 fathoms , it falls so suddenly in the " cold area | b tween 150 and 300 fathoms , that the whole of its deeper stratum has temperature below 32 ' , the bottom temperature descending in some pai to 29''5 .
Now on this " cold area " I never found a single the bottom consisting of sand and gravel , and the Foraminifera broug up from it being almost exclusively those which form arenaceous tes The " warm area , " on the other hand , is covered with an unknown depth , its surface-stratum being composed of perfect she filled with sarcode , whilst its deeper layers are amorphous .
Near t junction of the two areas , but still within the thermal limit of t " warm , " sand and Globigerina-ooze are mingled\#151 ; this being peculiar noticeable on the " HoItenia-gvoxmA .
, " which yielded a large proporti\lt ; of our most noteworthy captures in this locality .
Now if the bottoi deposit is dependent on the life of the surface-stratum , why shou there be this complete absence of ooze over the " cold are ; the condition of the surface-stratum being everywhere the same ?
was myself formerly disposed to attribute it to the depression of bottoi temperature ; but as it has now been proved by the ' Challenger ' obst vations in the Atlantic , that Globigerinooze prevails over areas who bottom-temperature is but little above 32 ' , this explanation can no long be accepted .
And I-can see no other way of accounting for it than attributing it to the drift of the cold underflow , carying away the Oh gerinae that are subsiding through it towards the deep basin of the Atlant into which I believe that underflow to discharge itself .
Prof. Wyvi Thomson , however , denies any sensible movement to this underflo continuing to speak of it as " banked up " by the Gulf-stream* , whi * See his ' Depths of the Sea , ' p. 400 .
That there is a lateral pressure of the \lt ; flow against the other , just as there is a lateral pressure of the Labrador Cum against the Gulf-stream on the North-American coast ( producing the well-known " o wall " ) , is sufficiently obvious from their relative distributions on the bottom of ' channel .
But it seems to me perfectly clear that the effect of this pressure is sim ] to narrow the glacial flow , and at the same time to increase its velocity .
The m westerly point to which we traced it was near the edge of the Faroe Banks ; 8 there ( as Prof. Wyville Thomson himself pointed out to me at the time ) the movem* of the bottom-water was evidenced by the rounding into pebbles of what was elsewh angular gravel .
But it is even more conclusively shown by a comparison of the t serial soundings taken in the " cold area " ( Nos. 52 and 64 ) , which proves that t glacial stratum flows up a slope in the former position ( just as the cold under-strati does in the Florida Channel ) , which it could not do unless it were in movement .
.aP we did not trace the outflow of this cold stream into the great basin of the Atlan-was simply , as I believe , because we were prevented from ascertaining the bottc temperature on the line which I expected that flow to take after surmounting ridge .
i75 .
] Sea-bottom , procured by H.M.S. c 241 Ire ( according to him ) has a depth of 700 fathoms ; and this very strik-ig example of want of conformity between the surface-fauna and the ittom-deposit consequently remains to be accounted for on his hypo-esis .
The other of Prof. Wyville Thomson 's principal conclusions , as to Inch I have rather a suggestion to offer than an objection to take , lates to the origin of the " red clay " which he found covering large -eas in the Atlantic , and met with also between Kerguelen 's Island and [ elboume .
Into this red clay he describes the Globigerina-ooze as grafting , through the " grey ooze " ; and he affirms this transition to be sentially dependent on the depth of the bottom .
" Crossing , " he says from these shallower regions occupied by the ooze into deeper soundings , e find universally that the calcareous formation gradually passes into , ad is replaced by , an extremely pure clay , which occupies , speaking enerally , all depths below 2500 fathoms , and consists almost entirely of silicate of the red oxide of iron and alumina ... ... ... ..The mean laximum depth at which the Globigerinooze occurs , may be taken fc about 2250 fathoms ; the mean depth at which we find the trans-fcion grey ooze is 2400 fathoms ; and the mean depth of the red-clay oundings is about 2700 fathoms ... ... ... ... ... ."We were at length ble , " he continues , " to predict the nature of the bottom from the depth of he soundings with absolute certainty for the Atlantic and the Southern tea .
" And from these data he considers it an indubitable inference : that the red clay is essentially the insoluble residue , the , as it were , \gt ; f the calcareous organisms which form the ooze after the alcareous matter has been by some means removed .
" This inference he :onsiders to have been confirmed by the analysis of several samples of Qlobigerina-ooze , " always with the result that'a small proportion of a red lediment remains , which possesses all the characters of the red clay .
" Prof. Wyville Thomson further suggests that the removal of the calcareous matter may be due to the presence of an excess of carbonic acid in the bottom-waters , and to the derivation of this water in great part from circumpolar freshwater ice , so that , being comparatively free from carbonate of lime , its solvent power for that substance is greater than that of the superjacent waters of the ocean .
He might have added probability to his hypothesis if he had cited the observations of Mr. Sorby as to the increase of solvent power for carbonate of lime possessed by water under greatly augmented pressure* .
Greatly struck with the ingenuity of this hypothesis , I turned to Prof. Wyville Thomson 's tabular statement of the facts in detail ; and must own to a great feeling of surprise at the want of conformity of these details with the assertions of universality and certainty of prediction which I have italicized in the above extracts .
Thus in the deepest sounding in the whole Atlantic ( that of 3875 fathoms , taken on the * Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xii .
p. 538 .
242 Dr. W. B. Carpenter on Nature of the [ pe|j 4 voyage from St. Thomas to Bermuda ) , as well as in the next two sound ings of 2960 and 2800 fathoms respectively ( the average of the three being 3211 fathoms ) , the bottom was " grey ooze ; " whilst in the next three soundings of 2850 , 2700 , and 2600 fathoms respectively ( the average of the three being 2716 fathoms , or nearly 400 fathoms less than the preceding ) the bottom was of " red clay .
" Between Bermuda and the Azores , again , there were six successive soundings between 2700 and 2875 fathoms , in which the bottom was " grey ooze .
" .
It is clear , then , that no constant relation exists between depth and the nature of the bottom .
If not only eight ordinary soundings whose average was almost exactly 2800 fathoms , but the extraordinarily deep sounding of 3875 fathoms , gave a bottom of " grey ooze , " it surely cannot be " an ascertained fact that wherever the depth increases from about 2200 to 2600 fathoms , the modern chalk formation of the Atlantic and other oceans passes into a clay .
" Now if this " red clay " had the character of an ordinary river-silt , it would be quite conformable to my Mediterranean experience to regard it ( as Prof. Wyville Thomson himself was at first disposed to do ) in the light of a derivative from the land , diffused through the ocean-water and slowly settling-down over particular areas , to which it might be determined by the prevalent direction of the bottom-flow , which would greatly depend in its turn upon the ridge-and-valley conformation of the sea-bed .
And the presence of a small proportion of this material in the ordinary Globigerina-ooze , whilst ; where it is deposited in quantity , there are neither entire Globigerince nor their disintegrated remains , would be perfectly consistent with the known destructive effect of the slow subsidence of a muddy sediment on many forms of animal life* .
But I agree with Prof. Wyville Thomson in thinking that the remarkable uniformity of this deposit , coupled with its peculiar composition , indicates a different derivation ; and the suggestion I have to offer is based on its near relation in composition , notwithstanding its great difference in appearance , to Glauconite\#151 ; the mineral of which the green sands that occur in various Geological formations are for the most part composed , and which is a silicate of peroxide of iron and alumina .
It is well known that Prof. Ehrenberg , in 1853 f , drew attention to the fact that the grains of these green sands are for the most part , if not entirely , internal casts of Eoraminifera\#151 ; the sarcodic bodies of the animals having been replaced by glauconite , and the calcareous shells subsequently got rid of , either by abrasion or by some solvent which does not attack their contents .
It was soon afterwards shown by Prof. Bailey ( " U " .
S. ) that in certain localities a like replacement is going on at the present time , the chambers^ of recent Eoraminifera being occasionally found to bo * See my ' Shearwater ' Report in Proceed .
Roy .
Soc. 1872 , vol. xx .
p. 584 .
JH1 t " XJeber den Griinsand und seine Erlauterung des organischen Lebens , " in Abhan f der konigl .
Akad .
der Wissensch .
zu Berlin , 1855 , p. 85 .
575 .
] Sea-bottom procured by H.M.S. * * 243 icupied by mineral deposit , which , when the shell has been dissolved ray by dilute acid , presents a perfect internal cast of its cavities .
By 13 application of this method to Mr. Beete Jukes 's Australian dredgings , ]jr coadjutors , Messrs. W. K. Parker and T. Rupert Jones , obtained a sties of internal casts of most wonderful beauty and completeness , on lich I have based my interpretation of the organic structure of Eozoon madense .
Having myself examined in the same manner a portion of e Foraminiferal sand dredged by Capt. Spratt in the iEgean ( kindly aced in my hands by Mr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys ) , I have found that it aided a great variety of these beautiful models , not only of the bodies Foraminifera , but also of the sarcodic network which interpenetrates e calcareous network of the shell and spines of Echinida* .
Alike in Mr. Jukes 's and in Capt. Spratt 's dredgings , some of these sts are in green silicates and some in corresponding precisely the two kinds of fossil casts described by Prof. Ehrenberg .
The fference I presume to depend upon the degree of oxidation of the iron ; it as these casts are far too precious to be sacrificed for chemical ana-sis , I cannot speak with certainty on this point .
As it is only in certain limited areas of the sea-bottom that this replace-ent of the sarcodic bodies of Foraminifera by mineral deposit is met ith , it has always seemed to me next to certain that there must be some jculiarity in the composition of the sea-water of those areas ( produced , irhaps , by the outburst of submarine springs highly charged with ferru-nous silicates ) which gives to them a capability that does not exert self elsewhere ; and this now seems yet more probable from the circum-auce that , notwithstanding the vast extent over which the ' Challenger ' mndings and dredgings have been prosecuted , only two or three cases c the kind have been noted\#151 ; those , namely , of the " greenish sands " " ought up from 98 and 150 fathoms in the'region of the Agulhas urrent and in one or two other localities .
It is a fact of peculiar invest , moreover , that the calcareous shells should have here disappeared , ist as they have done in ordinary green sand ; and this , too , although le depth was so small as altogether to forbid the idea that their dis-ppearance is due to any solvent process brought about by the agencies ) which Prof. Wyville Thomson attributes the removal of the calcareous eposit generated by G-lobigerine life .
Now in the residue left after the decalcification of Capt. Spratt s dredg-ags , I noticed a number of small particles of red clay , some of them pre-enting no definite shape , whilst others approximated sufficiently closely a form and size to the green and ochreous " internal casts to induce me o surmise that these also had been originally deposited in the chambers *f Foraminifera\#151 ; their material being probably very nearly the same , * Of these I hope to he able , ere long , to give a detailed account , in illustration of he similar models of the animal of Eozoon obtained by the decalcification of its ser-ientine lamellae .
244 On the Sea-bottom procured by H. M.S. 'Challenger ?
[ Feb. 4 , although its state of aggregation is different .
And if this was their real origin , I should be disposed to extend the same view to the red clay of the ' Challenger ' soundings ; for a strong d priori improbability in the supposition that this is the " ash " of the shells themselves is created by the fact that we have no knowledge ( so far as I am aware ) of the presence of any such ash in calcareous organisms of similar grade .
It is certainly not proved by the analyses of Globigerina-ooze quoted by Prof. Wyville Thomson ; since this ( supposing it to be free from any extraneous admixture ) may have contained many shells partially or completely filled with such deposit .
The only analysis that could prove it would be that either of shells of floating G which may be presumed to be alive , or of those found in the surface-layer of the , which ( whether living or dead ) have their chambers filled with sarcode .
I submit , then , that if the red clay is ( as I am disposed to believe ) a derivative of the Globigerina-ooze , its production is more probably due to a post mortem deposit in the chambers of the Foraminifera than to the appropriation of its material by the living animals in the formation of their shells .
That deposit may have had the character , in the first instance , of either the green or the ochreous silicate of alumina and iron , which constitutes the material of the internal casts , and may have been subsequently changed in its character by a metamorphic action analogous to that which changes felspar into clay .
That the presence of an excess of carbonic acid would have an important share in such a metamorphosis appears from the fact , long since brought into notice by Sir Charles Lyell* , of the disintegration of the granite in Auvergne and of the gneiss in the alluvial plains of the Po where subject to its influence .
And the same agency ( especially when operating under great pressure ) would be fully competent to effect the removal of the calcareous shells , as was distinctly pointed out nearly thirty years ago by Prof. W. C. Williamson in his classical Memoir on the Microscopic Organisms of the Levant Mudt .
This seems to me the most probable mode of accounting for their disappearance from a deep-sea deposit , where no mechanical cause can be invoked .
But in shallower waters , where the same excess of carbonic acid does not exist , and the aid of pressure is wanting , but where a movement of water over the bottom is produced by tides and currents , I am disposed rather to attribute the disappearance of the shells to mechanical abrasion , having noticed , in Capt. Spratt 's iEgean dredgings , that many of the shells were worn so thin that the coloured mineral deposit in their in* terior could be seen through them\#151 ; which was , in fact , what first drew my attention to its presence .
This is the explanation I should be disposed to give of the disappearance of the shells from the green sand brought up by the ' Challenger ' in the course of the Agulhas Current ; few whether it was mechanical abrasion or chemical solution that removed * Principles of Geology , 11th ed. , vol. i. p. 409 .
t Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester , vol. viii .
P575 .
] On the Cruise of H.M.S. ' Challenger.3 ie Foraminiferal shells whose internal casts formed the G-reensand ( posit of the Cretaceous epoch , must remain for the present an open xestion * .
L " Report to the Hydrographer of the Admiralty on the Cruise of H.M.S. ' Challenger 3from July to November 1874 .
" By Prof. Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff on Board .
Received January 4,1875 .
( Published by permission of the Lords of the Admiralty .
) H.M.S. ' Challenger , ' Hong Kong .
The 'Challenger ' left Port Nicholson on the 7th of July , 1874 , and roceeded under sail along the east coast of New Zealand .
On the 8th re rounded and trawled in 1100 fathoms , lat. 40 ' 13 ' S. , long .
177 ' 43 ' 3 .
, with a bottom-temperature of 2 ' C. and a bottom of soft greenish oze .
Many animals were brought up by this trawl resembling closely hose which we had taken at a corresponding depth in other portions of he southern sea .
On the 10th we again trawled and sounded in 700 athoms about 40 miles to the east of East Cape .
We then continued our course northwards towards the Kermadec [ skmds , and on the 14th we took our usual series of observations mid-vay between Macauley and Raoul Islands in the Kermadec group .
At his station we trawled at a depth of 630 fathoms ; and we were greatly struck with the general resemblance between the assemblage of animal forms brought up in the trawl and the results of a good haul in about che same depth off the coast of Portugal or North Africa .
Among the more interesting objects were a very large and splendid specimen of a Hexactinellid sponge allied to Poliopog several other fine sponges referred to the same group , and three or four examples of two species of Pentacrinus new to science , resembling generally P. asteria , L. , from the Antilles .
W^e trawled on the following day in 600 fathoms , 45 miles to the north of Raoul Island , with nearly equal success .
On the evening of Sunday the 19th we arrived at Tongatabu and called on the principal missionary , Mr. Baker , from whom we received every possible attention during our short stay .
After spending two days in visiting different parts of the island , we left Tongatabu on the 22nd of July , and after taking a few hauls of the dredge in shallow water we proceeded towards Kandavu in the Eijis .
On the 24th we stopped off Matuku Island and landed a party of surveyors and naturalists ; and while they were taking * It is due to Prof. W. C. Williamson to point out that , in the Memoir already referred to , 'he indicated the probability " that many of our European Greensands , and other siliceous strata , however barren of such structures they appear , may have once contained multitudes of calcareous microscopic organisms , some of which have been removed after the consolidation of the strata , leaving either hollow casts , or having had the cavities subsequently filled with silica .
"

