62 Mr. W. S. Lazarus-Barlow .
Pathology of [ Jan. 25 , at first external and then ventral to the motor portion of the internal capsule , and so reaches the tegmentum .
The lines from the two sides meet in the interpeduncular grey matter at the level of and just behind the exit of the 3rd nerve .
2 .
Hyperinspiratory Clonus ( " snuffing movements").\#151 ; This effect was obtained by excitation at the junction of the olfactory bulb and tract , and then carrying the stimulation backwards along the olfactory tract ; the same result was found when the uncinate convolution of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe was irritated .
Followed from the uncus this excitable region passed behind the optic tract to the crus , and then lay ventrally to the crusta .
The excitable tract on each side thus converged towards the middle line at the upper border of the pons .
3 .
Hyper inspiratory Tonus\#151 ; This experimental result is of such frequency and constancy as to be clearly an important general phenomenon .
It can be elicited in various ways : e.g. , excitation of the descending motor tract in the corona radiata and internal capsule yielded this result ; so did excitation of the 5th nerve and dura mater , as well as the sciatic nerve , both before and after complete removal of the cerebrum at the tentorium cerebelli .
The author finds medullated fibres in prepared microscopical vertical ( frontal ) sections of the brain running in the same course as that indicated by faradic excitation of the living surface of the section of the hemisphere .
For his conclusions he has relied solely upon tracings of the respiratory movements .
Fifty-six tracings are included as illustrations , together with thirty photographs of brains and brain sections to show the precise points excited .
The author records his thanks to Mr. Horsley for help , and to Dr. Howard Tooth for the loan of excellently-prepared sections .
IV .
" The Pathology of the ( Edema which accompanies Passive Congestion .
" By Walter S. Lazarus-Barlow , M.B. , M.R.C.P. Communicated by Professor Roy , F.R.S. Received December 22,1893 .
( From the Pathological Laboratory , Cambridge .
) ( Abstract .
) The author reviews the literature of the subject , and points out that the question of time has not been sufficiently considered by previous investigators .
He examines the view which , at present , is usually accepted , and which explains the oedema accompanying passive congestion upon purely mechanical principles .
j 1894 .
] the ( Edema which accompanies Passive Congestion .
63 He estimates the occurrence or non-occurrence of oedema by the I specific gravity of the blood and blood-plasma , arterial and venous , I of muscle and ' of skin , regarding these as more delicate tests of the I presence or absence of oedema than the rougher methods of inspec-I tion , measurement , and pitting on pressure .
Having raised the pressure in the femoral vein to 50 mm. of I mercury , he finds that there is no alteration in the specific gravity of I the blood or blood-plasma of the muscle or of the skin , nor is I there any increase in the amount of the lymph-flow , though such a j pressure he maintained constant for an hour .
I In the affected limb only is any change to he noted , and here there | s a rise in the specific gravity of the venous blood and blood-plasma , | which depends upon the longer sojourn of the blood in the limb and | the consequent greater removal of the more watery portion from a j given volume of blood .
Inasmuch as it is essential upon a purely mechanical explanation | that the exudation from the blood-vessels should be increased in amount synchronously with the increase of pressure , and no such exudation is found to take place during an hour after the pressure I in the veins has been raised , the author considers that the mechanical explanation is not supported by facts .
Since all forms of oedema are accompanied by an insufficient supply of blood to meet the requirements of the tissues , the author investigated the effect of different varieties of anaemia upon the occurrence of oedema .
The varieties investigated were :\#151 ; 1 .
Prolonged complete anaemia , lasting three hours .
2 .
Haemostasis , or cutting-off of the limb , with whatever blood and lymph it may contain , from the rest of the circulation , by means of a tight ligature , for one hour .
3 .
Complete anaemia combined with stimulation of the sciatic nerve , and persistence , in situ , of the products of muscle-metabolism , the whole lasting one hour .
After each of these three varieties of anaemia the effects of active congestion , and of venous obstruction , were separately considered .
It was found that cederna occurs , as shown by a fall in the specific gravity of the muscle and skin , and a rise in the specific gravity of the blood , after all these conditions of anaemia , and the author concludes , therefore , that starvation of the tissues plays an important part in the occurrence of oedema .
The amount of oedema obtained , however , was found to be greater in those cases in which the limb had been subjected to the action of r venous blood , and the longer the action of the venous blood was allowed to obtain , the greater the amount of oedema .
The author I concludes that the presence of the products of tissue metabolism at Presents .
[ Jan. 25 , the site of their formation plays a part in the occurrence of oedema 1 even more important than that .played by starvation .
The greatest amount of oedema was obtained with venous obstruc- j tion after anaemia and stimulation of the sciatic nerve .
The author shows that stimulation of the nerve of a muscle 1 normally produces changes which lead to an absorption of water by f the muscle , and he concludes that the oedema which accompanies passive congestion depends upon an excess of the normal process \ whereby the nutrition of the tissues and the removal of the waste ] products of their metabolism are carried out , the supply of lymph being excessive only because the demands of the tissues are excessive .
The part played by the blood-vessels the author regards as some- i what uncertain .
Sharing in the general starvation of the limb , their function must be modified in some as yet unrecognised way ; never- : theless , he considers that the part played by them is subordinate to the part played by the tissues outside the blood-vessels .
Presents , January 25 , 1894 .
Transactions .
BerlinGesellschaft fur Erdkunde .
Zeitschrift .
Bd .
XXVIII .
No. 5 .
8vo .
, Perlin 1893 .
The Society .
Boston:\#151 ; Colonial Society of Massachusetts .
Bye-Laws , with Certificate of Incorporation and Lists of Officers and Members .
8vo .
Boston1893 .
The Society .
Brussels:\#151 ; Academy Royale des Sciences .
Annuaire .
1894 .
8vo .
Bruxelles .
The Academy .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; Museum of Comparative Zoology , Harvard College .
Annual Report of the Curator .
1892-93 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1893 .
The Museum .
Halle:\#151 ; K. Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher .
Nova Acta .
Band LVII\#151 ; LVIII .
4to .
Halle 1892-93 ; Leopoldina .
Heft 28 .
4to .
Halle 1892 ; Katalog der Bibliothek .
Lief .
4 .
8vo .
Halle 1893 .
The Academy .
London:\#151 ; British Museum .
Catalogue of Printed Books .
Peasant\#151 ; -Penhydd , Periodico\#151 ; Pentenyi .
4to .
London 1893 .
The Trustees .
Royal United Service Institution .
Journal .
Vol. XXXVIII .
No. 191 .
8vo .
London 1894 .
The Institution .
Society of Biblical Arch ecology .
Proceedings .
Vol. XVI .
Parts 1\#151 ; 2 .
8vo .
London 1893 .
The Society .
Naples :\#151 ; Accademia dell Scienze Fisiche e Matematiche .
Rendi-conto .
Serie 2 .
Vol. VII .
Fasc .
8\#151 ; 12 .
4to .
1893 .
The Academy.-

