Case of a young Gentleman , who recovered his Sight when seven Years of Age , after having been deprived of it by Cataracts , before he was a Year old ; with Remarks .
By Mr. James Ware , Surgeon .
Communicated by Maxwell Garthshore , M.D. F.R.S. Read June 11 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 382 .
] The subject of this case was the son of a clergyman in Somersetshire , who in his early infancy had every appearance of being a healthy , perfect child ; but , when about a year old , was accidentally observed to be deprived of sight .
A surgeon in the country pronounced that he had a complete cataract in each eye ; and Mr. Ware , on being consulted , did not hesitate to decide that the only cure would be the removal of the opaque crystalline humour ; but he added , that he did not think the child would be fit for the operation until he was at least thirteen or fourteen years of age .
At the age of seven , however , the child 's parents brought him to London , in order to enable Mr. Ware to form an opinion from his own observation .
A recent case , in which this eminent operator had succeeded to restore sight to a youth about fourteen years of age , without extracting the cataract , but merely by making a large puncture in the capsule , so as to bring the opake crystalline into free contact with the aqueous and vitreous humours , having induced him to retract his opinion concerning the necessity of extracting the cataract , he proposed to perform the above operation immediately on one of the eyes of this new patient .
This he effected without giving much pain ; and in a few days the child described without hesitation all the objects that were set before him .
The author now draws a comparison between this case of restored sight and those described by Mr. Cheselden in the 3,5th volume of the Philosophical Transactions ; and finding a considerable deviation in the results , he is induced to form several conclusions , which differ materially from those of his predecessors .
These are briefly , That when children are born blind , in consequence of having cataracts in their eyes , they are never so totally deprived of sight as not to be able to distinguish colours:-that they have likewise some perception of distances ; and that hence , when they recover their sight , they can immediately form some judgement both of colours and distances , and even of the outline of strongly defined objects .
That when children have been born with cataracts , the crystalline humour has generally been found , either in a soft or a fluid state ; and that in these cases , if the capsule be simply punctured with a couching-needle , there is reason to expect that the opaque matter will sooner or later be absorbed , and the sight be restored , and that should any opacity in the capsule itself render this operation ineffectual , the other , viz. that of extraction , may still be recurred to with every prospect of success .
Lastly , that this operation of couching being much more easy than that of extraction , it may be attempted at a very early period ; and that thus the benefit of education may be afforded to children much sooner than if they were to wait till the proper age for extraction .
Mr. Ware acknowledges in a note , that about a month after the above operation he couched the other eye of his young patient , but that he did not prove equally successful : this he ascribes to some opacity in the capsule , which was incapable of being absorbed .
The eye , however , he adds , remained as fit as ever for another operation .

