]\gt ; April 30 , 1891 .
Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , D.C.L. , .D .
, President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read : I. " " Cloud Photography conducted under the Meteorological Council at the Kew Observatory By Lieut.-General R. STRACHEY , , F.R.S. , and G. M. WHIPPLE , Superintendent of the Observatory .
Received Apri123 , 1891 .
Iu 1878 the Meteorological Council decided upon undertaking a series of experiments with the view of attempting by means of photography to obtain a record of the height and velocity of the clouds , as indicating the mowements of the upper parts of the atmosphere .
For this purpose a plain cubical , mera was constructed , with its optical axis directed to the zenith , and a number of pictures of clouds were thus obtained .
The results were so far satisfactory as to establish the possibility of identifying points in the clouds which would admit of the calculation of their height with consideraf ) precision .
But , owing to the small field of view of the lens made use of , it was that the opportunities of photographing clouds in this manner were of omewhat rare occurrence , and it was therefore decided , on the proposal of Captain Abney , to whom the Meteorological Council is indebted for his valuable advice throughouthe course of these experiments , to construct two cameras so arranged as to them to be directed to any part of the sky , and thus to photograph clouds in all positions .
For this purpose the cameras were fitted with theodolite mountings , provided with altitude and azimuth cles .
The dark slides for calTying the sensitised plates were fitted glass plates , upon which cross lines indicating the position of the optical axis were etched .
These lines were photographed simultaneously with the clouds , and the readings of the divided circles , recorded at the time of exPosure , thus supplied the altitude and azimuth of the point of the cloud covered by the intersection of the cross lines at that moment .
From a photographic picture of a series of staves erected at known angular intervals , a scale of angular distances was obtained , by means 468 Lieut. -Gcneral Strachey and .
Whipple .
[ Apr. of which the azimuth and altitude of any point in the cloud picture could be deduced from those of the intersection of the cross lines .
were made for erecting these cameras at the extremities of a base of known length ( 800 yards ) , between which an electrical communication was established .
Spring shutters were placed over the lenses , which could } ) liberated and closed , at the will of the observer , by the passage of an electric CUl'rent , so as to expose the plates for any desired interval of time .
Captain Abney also , after numerous trials , devised a suitable formula for an emulsion fcr coating the plates , as special precautions were found to be necessary in order to obtain good cloud photographs , Captain Abney thus describes the photographic process he proposed:\mdash ; " " My attention has been once more directed to the best photographic process to employ for the delineation of ] clouds , certain inconvenience having attached to the use of collodion-emulsion , which at first I had not foreseen .
I had then recourse to gelatine plates , but the manner in which they are ordinarily prepared induces a sensitiveness which becomes unmanageable , even when a diaphragm with a small aperture is used in the lenses .
The in the plates appears to be that a small variation in the intensity of the light proceeding from the sky or cloud shall produce a great contrast in the intensity of the developed image .
A very rapid plate does not answer for this purpose ; hence I tried several modifications .
The process which at } has given the best results is as follows : " " 150 grains of bromide of ammonium and 10 grains of iodide of potassium are dissolved in 3 oz. of water , to which 80 grains 's No. 1 photographic gelatine and 80 grains of Coignst 's gelatine been added .
This is dissolved by the aid of heat , and : 200 grains of silver nitrate dissolved in oz. of water are The whole is warmed to 10 F. for five minutes , and allowed to set after being poured out in a flat dish .
The emulsion thus produced washed ( in the usnal manner ) from the soluble salts , and is thsr -melted and plates coated and dried , as is customary in the gelatine process .
" " This formula gives very constant resuIts , and great contrasts of image arc obtained by careful development The years 1881 to 1884 were passed in working out the of the arrangements above described , and in 1885 , after numerouq preliminary trials , it was resolved to erect the two cameras at Kew Observatory .
One was placed on the roof of building , and the other on a stand in the Old Deer Park , 800 from other , on the road leading to bhe Observatory from Rich .
mond ; and a telegraph cable carrying two insulated copper wires well as to an electric battery , fixed to these stands , and wires vele arranged on the cameras , so that the observers couId either communicate with one another , or work the exposing shutters of the two at will .
Operations for the determination of cloud height and motion were theu carried out on suitable occasions , as follows:\mdash ; The two observe .ers , termed for convenienr .
, e A and , proceeded to their respective stations , each provided with a box containing half-a-dozen dark slides charged with sensitised plates , and also an adjusted watch .
The were set up on the pedestals , levelled , and the connecting wires joiued up .
Locking plates of peculiar construction were provided , which ensured that the zero poinbs in imuth of both cameras were exactly directed to the same point of the horizon .
The at , when he saw had reached his station and placed his camera on the pedestal ready for use , attracted 's attention by means of a flag waved overhead , and directed him through the telephone to set the instantaneoils shutter of his camera , setting that of his own camera at A at the same time .
A then , making use of the push , sent a current of electricity through the two cameras , which should liberate both shutters at the same instant of time .
An enquiry was immediately made through .
the telephone of , and , if the reply assured A that the shutters were workin satisfactorily , the observers proceeded to the second stage of the ation , which was as follows:\mdash ; A carefully examined the sky and , selecting a suitable cloud , directed the sights on his camera towards it , making a convenient setting of the horizontal and vertical circIes , which he then read oif .
He then told to set his camera to the same azimuth and altitude , and insert a loaded plate-holder in its groove , the circle readings to ensure accuracy , and also at the same time to set his hutter .
, whilst directing through the telephone , conducted the series of operations at his own instrument , so that , as soon as telephoned that he was ready for action , A switched the battery on to the line , and , watching the cloud for a favourable , touched the push , whereby the two plates were exposed simuItaneously , the tant of the exposure being recorded by both observers in their respective note-books .
They then quickly exchanged their plate-holders for others containing fresh plates , and again set the shutters , so that by the time sixty or seventy seconds had elapsed since the first exposure was made they were ready for a second , which was carried out as before under the directions of , both observers again noting the time .
After this , , having vitched on the telephones , enquired of if he obtained the two pictures .
If the reply was in the affirmative , V0L .
1LLX .
21 Lieut.-General Strachey and .
Whipple .
[ Apr. he was dil.ected to read both his circles , and to enter the readings , with the times of the two exposures and the numbers of the plateholders in his book , A doing the same for his own instrument .
Having deposited the plate-holders in the light-tight carrying box , another charged pair were taken , and a fresh clou in another part of the sky selected , and the ations already detailed were repeated , until the stock of charged holders was exhausted .
The observers then , by means of the telephones , again compared their watches , and noting their differences , if any , hted their cameras on each other , and read their mutual bearings and altitudes .
This was done in order be sure no displacement had taken place in eiher the orientation or level of the instruments .
They then unlocked the stands , dismounted the cameras , and put them away in the lockers of the pedestals , ready for use on another occasion , conveying the plates to the photographic laboratory for development and subsequent treatment .
time to time , the empty plate-holders were taken out , the lenses dirscted to each other , and made and circles read the view of determining the bearings of the fiducial lines before described , from which the angular position of the dealt with were obtained .
On removal of the exposed plates from the holders , the dates of observation ving been vritten on each of in penci ] , as well as a register number , development proceeded .
This was conducted in a wooden tray with a glass bottom specially adapted to hold four plates .
The two 's and two 's forming one set of pictures were usually selected for simultaneous development , in order that the negatives obtained possess the same degree of intensity .
Before hydrokinone became an article of commerce , solution of pyrogallic acid or sulphate of iron was employed as the developing agent , but , since 1889 , Edwards 's hydrokinone developer has been employed by preference , as being less liable to produce fogged plaes .
Owing to the efforts of the Kew obssrvers being chiefly directed to photographing high clouds , very careful and slow development was required , to produce satisfactory , and it has been generally necessary to continue the operation for about forty to bring out a successful result .
In soms cases of very thin filmy cirrus , the so-called mare 's tail clouds , the development occupied hours , bofore the picture appeared .
For discussion of the photographs , ill most cases prints were of t'ne negatives by the ordinary albuminised paper process .
methods of obtaining the heights and velocity of motion of the clouds the photographs thus made have been attempted .
The computation by the ordinary trigonometrical formulae from the *hich , though very ingenious , was found to be troublesome in practice , and was not persevered in .
the nature of the process employed , the indefinite outlines of the clouds , and their incessant change of form , complicated by effects of pel'spective distortion on an ular and ill-defined surface , it is necessarily impossible to identify cloud-points in the different lres with much precision or make exact measurements ; and upproximate results , therefore , are all that can be sought for .
The object of the enquiry is chiefly to determine the velocity of movement of clouds at varying heights above the earth 's surface and to { he of those observed at the greatest eIevations , which appear as If A and aire the azimuths of any point in a cloud , and and the zenith distances , observed respectively at A and , the ends of the base , then the distances , measured in a horizontal plane passing through the base , A and respectively of the point vertically under the cloud-point will be , the height of the cloud-point above the horizontal plane passing through base , will be These values are readily found by means of a slide-rule constructed as shown below .
The graduations of the upper scale of the fixed rule are sines ; those of the lower scale of the fixed rule logs of numbers , the of 2400 feet , the length of the base , coinciding with The upper sliding rule No. I is graduated with of small $ugles on the same scale as the first rule , the point marked with lndex No. I indicating sine which is , or 0 which is The lower sliding rule No. II is graduated with tangents , the Point marked with index No. IL corresponding to tan45o , and on scale as the sines .
To apply the rule , bring index No. I of the slide-rule No. I opposite angle A on the upper fixed scale .
Then bring the index No. II of slide-rule No. II opposite to the angle on the slide-rule .
I. Lieut. General Strachey and Mr. Whipple .
[ Apr. FIG. 1 .
: Cloud Photography .
aimilar ocess will be found distance and a height of the doud determined from The position of the point vertically under the selected will be determined with sufficient accuracy graphically , by the intersection of the two distances measured from the ends of a line drawn to represent the base .
The repetition of this process for the second set of photographs in like manner give the position of the cloud-point after the interval elapsed between the taking of the two sets of pictures , and the dis- tance travelled being measured on the diagram , the velocity can be found , and the direction of motion will be shown in relation to the direction of the base .
Irrespective of the laborious natnre of this , it was found that the angles on which it based were often so small that the results obtained were inconsistent and unreliable .
In 1890 , therefore , it was decided to try another method of observing , which would admit of much simpler treatment .
This was to fix the cameras so that the optical axes were directed to the zenitl ] , and to photograph olouds which passed across the ] of view which is comprised within a circle described at an angular distance of about round the zeniths of the two stations .
The defect of this method is that it very materially limited the scope of operations , and reduced the opportunities of taking pictures to a comparatively small number , it was found that a large proportion of the clouds which seemed apparently favourable for photographing when viewed by reflected solar light incident upon them at oblique angles became almost invisible when observed directly overhead .
This was notably the case with cirrus , some forms of which , especially those possessing the nature of cirro-stratus , appear as practically structureless when seen in this position .
But notwithstanding these drawbacks , some of which , it is hoped , may be obviated , the advantages of this method of observing seem to be sufficient to lead to its adoption in preference to any other yet suggested .
To adapt the cameras for work in this manner , both altitude and azimuth circles were permanently clamped , rendering them immovable both vertical and horizontal planes , and the locking plates were hifted on the pedestals , so that , while the fiducial lines on the Pictures intersect at the zenith , the ection of one of them is that of the line joining the two stations , or the base , other being at ight angles to it .
With the object of ensuring the proper adjustment of the optica ] of the cameras , a tripod stand 12 feet in height was made , which was temporarily erected immediately over them .
A plummet was 8USPended directly above the Iens-centre , the point of tion of two horizontal wires fixed at right angles to one another , one 474 Lieut.-General Strachey and Mr. Whipple .
[ Apr. of them being carefully made to coincide in direction with tlJe ljnv joining the two cameras .
The charged dark slides , which are separately numbered , so that tho correction for each of them may be ascertained and recorded , are successively placed in the camera and photographs taken of the wires overhead , the pictures of which should coincide with the Iiducid lines of the camera , the position of which is as nearly as adjusted to secure this coincidence .
The photographs thus made preserved , to supply data for correcting the negatives for any error of the fiducial lines , should the slides not be properly adjusted so as secure the coincidence before spoken of .
Assuming , as may be done without objection for this purpose , that the cloud surface photographed and the earth 's surface at the place of observation are in parallel planes , distances measured on the photo .
graphs from the intersection of the fiducial lines will represent tangents of angles measured from the zenith to radius equal to the the Again , if a pair of photographs made simultaneously at the extremities of the base are superimposed one on the other , so that tho forms of the clouds coincide , which they will do accurately if the pictures are properly placed , then the line joining the intersections of the cross lines will represent , both in magnitude and direction , the line joinin the zeniths of the two ends of the base , from which the observations are rrlade , or the base itself .
If the adiustments before described have been satisfactorily made , the base , as thus indicated , should obviously fall on one pair of fiducial lines , which , when the photographs are superimposed , should also coincide ; otherwise , if the fiducial lines in the two pictures are made to coincide , then the separation of points properly identified the tures will be the measure of the parallax or angle by the base at such points .
A scale of angular distance having been prepared as before plained , the parallax thus measured may at once be converted inb angular measure , and the height of the cloud is given by the equation where is the angular pti.rallax .
In like manner , if two photographs taken from the same point witg an interval of time between them be superimposed , so that the pictures coincide , the line joining the intersections of the cross lina will represent in nitude and direction the movement or drift of the cloud , and the velocity in miles per hour will be found from th equation \amp ; ployed during the early part of the past summer was as follows:\mdash ; Prints were made on albuminised paper of the set of four pictures , two taken at each end of the base with an interval of time between them , and they were mounted stout cards in order to avoid the usual curling up of the paper .
When necessal.y , new fiducial lines were then drawn in the proper direction through the points that had been ascertained to represent the corrected position of the lines of reference as before described , and these lines extended to the margins of the cards .
If possible , five or six cloud-points were then selected in each print , capable of satisfactory identification .
A sheet of paper was next procured , larger than the pictures , and lines intersecting at right angles were draw1l across it .
Punctures were then made , by means of a needle , through all the selected cloud-points in the four pictures , which were successively placed over the reference sheet ( termed here- after the receiver ) , so that the fiducial lines upon the pictures coinoided with the lines drawn upon the receiver , thereby ensuring the points of intersection being directly superimposed , and , by means of a needle passed through the pricked holes , the marked cloud-points were transferred to the receiver .
This having been done in turn for all the four pictures of the set , the points thus pricked ofl were joined by inked lines , those obtained from the pair of pictures taken simultaneously being drawn in black ink , and those the other pair in red , by which a series of parallelograms was formed , equal in number to the number of points selected for treatment .
The black or sides of these parallelograms then represented the parallax of the several cloud-points , being proportional in length to the tangent of the angle subtended by the base line at the altitude of the cloud , the red lines the other two sideb of the quadrilaterals represented on the same the drift of the cloud during the interval elapsed between the taking of the two sets . .
of pictures .
The measnrement of these black and red lines provided the means already explained of determining the height of the clouds and the rate of their motion , the direction being given by the inclination of the two lines , of which the black one represented the base .
In dealing with the direction of the drift when thus obtained from positive prints , it has to be remembered that by the printing the right and left of the tures a transposed , so that the east is on the left and the west on the in a picture the top of which is directed to the north .
476 Lieut.-General trachey and Mr. Whipple .
[ Apr. 30 , .
The necessary me$surements were made on a scale of millimeters , and the computations carried out by the help of logarithms .
The operations thus described have lately been much abbreviated in various ways .
First , it has been possible to carry out the superposition of the pictures by means of the negatives only , and to work without either employing positives or on the idelltification of a few selected points whose positions were transferred to a receiver .
A frame has been constructed which carries the glass negative plate upon sliders in grooves running in parallel planes , one immediately over the other , but arranged so as to travel at right angles to one another , the lower moving towards and away from the observer , whilst the upper traverses from right to left .
A mirror , either a silvered or an opal plate , is employed to reflect the light of the sky upwards to the eyes through the negative photograph when the apparatus is placed upon a table in front of a well-lighted windofv .
Stray or diffused light is excluded by placing a box , darkened on its inner SUl'face , over the negatives , and the observer views the combination through a tube fixed perpendicularly upon the top of the The two photographs to be compared are placed one in each of sliding frames , which are first so adjusted that ths fiducial lines which follow the direction of the base pass exactly over one another .
Next the bottom or backwards-and-forwards slider is moved until the cloud pictures , say a pair marked A and , are seen to coincide , and distance between the intersections of the cross lines on the two representing the zenith points , which is the parallax , is then measured by means of a pair of compasses ; bub a scale could readily be fixed on the slides from which the parallax could be read off withoul measurement .
In order to avoid calculations , a standard curve has been ( see fig. 2 ) , from which the height of the cloud may at once graphically determined from the distance between the intersections 04 the cross lines or parallax of the base as thus measured .
On the axis of abscissae of this curve are marked off the heights on 1 } scale which makes 2400 feet , the length of the base , equal to the focal distance of the camera , and at intervals alon this line ordinates drawn of the length , as measured on the photographs , of the parallax corresponding to the several heights .
Through extremities of these ordinates a curved line is drawn , which gives locus of the equation the lengths and being both expressed on the scale just mentioned .
The same operations are next performed with pictures and .
Cloud Photography .
eparating the zenith of the two pictures , which will be termed the drift , will indicate the space the cloud has moved the interval the taking of the two ctures ; and the angle which the joining the zeniths makes with the line of base gives the direction in which the drift has taken place .
From the length of the drift measured upon the plates as above , the of motion may easily be obtained by a graphical method .
Lieut.-General Strachey and Mr. Whipple .
LApr .
30 As before stated , the velocity in miles per hour is . .
3600 Cloud otography .
, and divide it into 60 equal parts , and from the zero point on horizontal line draw radiating lines through the points of division , to the vertical at 120 seconds .
This utes a scale of portional velocities from to 60 miles per hour , and may be exded to auy higher velocity .
Next ( see fig. 4 ) draw two parallel ' vertical at a distance apart equal to the length of the base , 2400 feet , on the scale umed to represe1lt 1 mile , and draw a horizontal line intersecting the other two at right angles at and N. Then mark ofl the length of drift upwards on of the two 480 Cloud Photography .
[ Apr. vertical lines from and at points and ; and the length of parallax , on the horizontal line from towards , at a point Join , intersecting the vertical through at S. Then represents the drift on the scale assumed to represent 1 mile .
Let this be marked off upwards on the vertical line drawn on the scale of proportional velocities , fig. 8 , from the seconds divisiou corresponding to the time interval between the pictures , and the velocity of dlift will be indicated by the radiating line }earest to the mark thus made .
The above described for the graphical determination of the cloud heights and velocities are raved and printed on sheets of papel , which , after the computations are completed by their aid , will serve as convenient records of the observations .
After a little practice , the whole of the processes requisite for these determinations from the glass plate-negatives of a complete set of four pictures will not exceed 20 minutes .
Quite sufficient accuracy is ensured , and the labour and risk of error arising from the use of tables is entirely avoided .
Although the cameras now in use only embrace a circle of angular diameter of about , trials have been made with a lens which gives atisfactory pictures of double that extent , which is-probably as much as could be desired .
The following is a list of the determinations made during the past year by the methods now described:\mdash ;

