I V. Experivzents upon Heate By MajorGeneral Sir Benjanzin Thompson ; Knt. F.R.S. In a Letter to Sir Joseph Batlksy Bart. P. A. S. Read Jatluary 19 , 1792e DEAR StR ?
Munic , f , yusle , 17879 SINCE my last communication upon the subject of HEAT , which the Royal Society have done me the honour to publish in their Trarlsactions , I have made some further progress in the investigation of that most interesting subject , of which I propose to give you an account in this letter .
The confining and directing of heat are objects of such vast importance in the oeconomy of human life , that I have been induced to collfine my researches chiefly to those pOilltS , conceiving that very great adsrantages to lmankind could not fail to be derirred from the discovery of any new facts relative to these operations .
If the laws of the communication of heat from one body to another were known , measures might be talien with certainty ; in all cases , for confining it , and clirecting its operations , and this rould not only be productive of great oeconomy in thearticles of fuel and clothing , but would likewise greatly increase the comforts and conveniences of life ; objects of which the philosopher should rlever lose sightc The route which I have follouted in this irlquiry is that which I thought bid fairest to lead to useful discoveries.\Vithollt ern barrassing myself with any particular tlneory I have formed to myself a plan of experimental investigation , wTlaich I conceived wtould conduct me to the knowledge of certain facts , of vIzicll we are now ignorant , or very inlperfectly inforlned , and utith utllich it is of consequence that we should be made acquainted .
The first great object which I had in view in this inquiry -was to ascertairl , if possible , the cause of the warluth of cert ; ai bodies ; -or the cirGumstances iAporl which their power of COl1 fining heat depe-nds .
This , in other sverds is no other than to determine the eduse of the conduc:ting and noll-conducting pourer of bodies .
To this end I begatl by determining by actual experiment the relative conducting poners of various bodies of very diffe rent rlaturesa both fluids and solidsn of son of wlaicll es ?
erilnents I have already given all account in the Paper ab-vsre mentioned , which is published itl the r:I'ransactions of the Royal Society for the year 1786 ; I shall now , taking up the matter where I left it , give you the contintlation of the history of my researches .
Having discovered that the Torricelliatl vacuum is a much wTol^se conductor of heat than common air , and harrin-g ascertainedo the relative conducting powers of air , of watery and of mercury , under dzfferent circumstances , I proceeded to exalnine the cc)nclucting powers of various solid bodies , and particularly of such sub$tances as are commonly made use of for clothing .
The tnethod of making these experiments Fras as follows : a mercurial thermometer , whose bulb was about iSoSQ of an inch * See Phil.tRrans .
Yol .
f &gt; XXlII .
Tab. VI , Fig , + M ; I)CCX(:XIo 1H in diameter , and itstube , about 1o inches in length , was suspexlded in the axis of a cylilldrical glass tube , abc)ut 4 of an finch in diameter , ending with a globe lI60 inch in diameter , in SUCil a manner that the centre of the bulb of the thermometer occupiednthe centre of the globe ; and the space between the internal surface of the globe and the surface of the bulb of the thermometer beingS filled with the substarlce Bhose conducting power was to be determined , the instrument was heated in boiling water , and afterrards being plunged into a freezing mixture of pouIlded ice and water , the times of cooling were observed , and noted do ; svn .
The tube of the thermotneter was divided at every tenth dew gree from o0 or the pOiIlt of freezing to 800 , that of boiling water , and these divisions being tnarked upon the tube with the point of are diamond and the cylindrical tube being left empty ?
the height of the tnercury in the tube of the thermoneter was seen through it .
The thermolueter was conSined in its place by lmeans of a stopple of cork , about 1I inch long , fitted to the mouth of the reyllndrical tube , througln the centre of which the end of the tule of the thermotneter passed , and in which it was cementtect .
The operation of introducing into the globe the substances whose conducting powers are to bedetermined , is performed in the foIlowing manner ; the thermometer being taken outof the cylindrical the about two-thirds of the substance which is to be the subject of the experiment are introduced into the globe ; after which , the loulb of the thermometer is introduced a fEw inches into the cylinder ; and , after it , the remainder of the substance leing placed round about the tub of the thermov meter ; and , lastly , the thermonleter beilag introduced farther into the tube , and being brought into its proper place , that part of the substance which being introduced last , remains in the cylindrical tube above the bulb of the thermometer , is ; pushed down into the globe , and placed equally round the bulb of the thermometer by means of a brass wire hich is passexl through holesmade for that purpose itl the stopple closing the end of the cylindrical tube .
As this instrument is calculated ierely for measuring the passage of heat in the substance whose conducting power is examined , I shall give it the name of passage-thermometer , and I shall apply the same appellation to all other instruments constructed upon the same principles , and for the same use , which I may in future have occasion to mention ; and as this irstrument has been so particularly described , both here , and ill my former Paper upon the subject of heat , in speaking of any others of the same kind in futtlre it will not b@ necessary to enter into such minute details .
I shall , therefore , only men tiOIl their sires , or the diameters oftheir bulbs , the diameters of their globes , the diameters of their cylitlders , and the lengths and divisions of their tubes , taking it for granted that this will be quite sufflcient to give a clear idea of the instrument .
In most of my fornzer experiments , in order to ascertain the conducting power of any body , the body being introduced into the globe of the passage-thermometer , the instrument was cooled to the temperature of freezing water , after which , being takell out of the ice waters it was plllnged suddenly ir}to boil.ing water , and the times of heating from ten to ten degrees were observed and noted ; and I said thAt these times MJere as the conducting power of the body inversely ; but in the experidH 2 ments of which I am xlow about to give : an account , I have in general rerersed the operas- &lt; ion ; that ; is to say , instead of observiag the X times of heatingn I have first heateEl the body in boilitag water , and-hen plungitzg it into a mixture of poul:leci ice and ice-cold vater , I have lloted the times taken *t up 1to cvo lng .
I have 13reterred this last method to the former , not only ot accotlnt of tEze greater ease and convetlience with which a thermotneter , plungedilltO a-mixture of water , may be obsetvecls than when placed ixl a vessel of boilingB wsater , and surrounded by hot steam ) but also on account of the ; reater accuracy of the experimetat , the heat of boiling water varying +N7ith the variations of the pressure of the atmosphere : consquently the experime ; lts made upon different days will have different resultsn and of course strictly speaking , cannot be compared together ; but the temperature of pounded ice Xclnd water is ever the same and of collrse the results of the experi .
over the divisions of the : thermolueter , marking yo ' and every tenth degree from it , descending to lo ' of the scale .
I contillued the cooling to o0 , or the temperature of the ice and vstater , in very fer illstances , as this took up much time , and vas attended with no particular advantage the determination of the times taken up in cooling 60 degrees of REAUMUR'SV scale , that is to say , from 700 to joo being quite sufficient tO aswrtain the conducting power of any body whatever During the time of cooling in ice and wrater , the thermometer was constantly moved about in this mixture from one place to another ; and there xvas always so much pounded ice mixed with the water7 that the ice appeared above the surice of the water ; the vessel , which was a large earthell jar , being , first quite filled with poullded ice and the water being afterwards poureda UpOll it ; and fitSh quantities of pounded ice being added as the occasion required .
Having described the apparatus made use of in these experiments , and the manner of performing the different operations , I shall nowprocted to give an account of the experiments themselves .
My first attempt was to discover the relative conducting powersiof such substances as are commonly made use of for clothing ; accordingly , having procured a quantity of raw 3ilk , as spun by the worln , sheets fwool , cotton wool , linen it the form of the finest lillt , being the scrapings of very fine Irish lillen , the finest part of the Are of tXJe beaver , separated from the skin and from the long hair , the finest part of the X fM fur of a white Russian hare , and Eider down ; I introduced successively 16 grains in weight of each of these substances into the globe of the passage-thermometer and placing it carefu } lie The bulb of the therrnometer surrounded by air .
, , , Exp. No. 1 .
Exp. No. s. X E:xp .
No. 3 .
N Time Time &gt; Cre Time:i : elapsed .
elapsed .
elapsed .
-7(3o _1 Q ' -_ 600 ^ 38 " 38 " Q0 ' 391t oo +6 46 go ' 4g4 ' ' S9 59 400 53 3 ' ' 8 ' 79 50 ' 67 20 ' 122 122 60 96 wo0 e31 230 7 ' ' 17t5 _. .
__ , ... ... .
Total times .
ff76 S74 1 473 .
/ .
sss Sir BENJA-MIN THOMP$0N s and equally rourud the bulb of the thermometer } I heated the thermometer in boiling water , as before described , and taking it out of the boiling water , plunged it into pounded ice and water , and observed the times of cooling .
But as the interstices of thesebbodies thus placed in the globe were filled with air , I first made the experiment with air alones and took the result of that experiment , as a standardby which to compare all the others ; the results of three experiments with air were as follows : and equally round the following table shows the results of the experiments , with the varions substances therein mentioned : : fx X ; H , oW tz t ' o vo rWf Exp. 1 .
Exp. 4 .
Exp. 5 .
Exp. 6 .
Exp. 7 .
EXp .
8 .
Exp. 9 .
Exp. los ! .
: = 700 _____ 38 94 79/ 83 " So ' ' 99X ' 97tZ 8tt SO 's 46 zoo 9 9ti 9tS zo6ol7 zld 4C , &gt; S9 tS 1o8 11:7 I 15 5tS 144 146 ooo8oz8Gz62S5S3 20 ' ) 122 27tS -238 221 P 218 265 27o 268 woo ag ] 489 426 378 376 478 49+ 485 = Total times576 12 84 oI18 lo46 10S2 1296 11315 go Nout the warmth of a body , or its power to confine 1leat , being as its power of resisting the passage of heat through it ( which I shall call its non-conductizag tower ) , and the time taken up by any body in cooling , hich is surrounded br any mediuln though which the heat is obliged to pass , being cgleris paribasn as the resistance which the medium opposes to the passage of the heat , it appears that the warxlth of the bodies mentioaed in the foregoing table are as the times of cooling ; the conductizag powers being illversely as those timesn as I have formerly s aowwn .
from the results of the foregoing experiments it appears , that of the seven different substances made use of hares fur and Eider down were the warmest ; after these came beavers fur ; rasN silk ; sheep3s wool ; cotton wool ; and lastly , lints or the scrapings of fi-ne linen ; but I acknowledge that the diirences in the warmth of these substances were much les$ than I expected to have found them .
Suspecting that thts ulight arise from the volutnes or solid contents of the substances being different ( though their weights were the same- ) , arising from the difference of their specific gra vitTes ; and aS it was llot eaSy to determine the specific gravities of these substances witti accuracy , in orderto see izowt fir any known differetace in the volume or quantity of the SAlNe substance ) confined always in the same spacen would add to , or .
, .
diminish the time of cooling or the apparent wartnth of th@ coveringX I made the three follouting experiments .
In the first ) the bulbof the thermometer was sulrounded by 16 grains of Eider down ; ill the second lJy 32 grains ; and in the third by 64 grains ; and in all these experirrlents the sub stalace was made to occupy exactly the samge space , Nr jZ the whole internal capacity of the glass globe , in the celltre of which the bulb of the thermometer was placed ; consequelltly the thickness of the covering of the thermometer remained the same while its density was varied in proportion to the 1lum bers , , and 4 , .
The results of these experiments ssere as follow * 4 ) ge ca Er 16 grains .
3s grains .
64 grains .
( Exp. No. 1l .
) ( Exp. No. i2 .
) l(Exp .
No i3 .
) 70 !
600 97 , t 1 1lll 12tr SQQ i 17 w28 1$o oo 1 45 &lt; 57 165 3sQ 192 207 224 20 ' M 267 so\#171 ; 326 lQ ' &gt; 486 565 658 Total tanles 1304 1472 16 XS EwSerinzents upon Hevt .
7 The bulS of the thermometer being surrounded by Eider down Without stopping at present to draw alay particular cconclasions from the results of these experiments , I shall p-roceed to give arl account of some others , which will affiord us a little further insight into the nature of solve of the circumstances upon which the warnlth of covering depends .
Firadingn by the last experiments , that the density of the covering adcled so considerably to the warmtil of it , its thick-ness remaining the same I was now desirous of discovering how far the internal structure of it contributed to render it more or less perarious to heat , its thickness and quantity of tnattzer remaining the same .
By internal structuren I mean the disposition of the parts of the substance which forms the coverixlg ; thus they may be extremely divided ) or very fine as raw silk as spun by the BJorms and they may be equally distri &amp; ted through the whole space they occupy ; or they may be coarserv or in larger masses ) with larger interstices as the ravelings of cloth , or ctlttings of threads .
If heat passed t1frollgh the substances made use of for covering , arld7if the warmth of the covezing depended solely upon the difficulty which the heat meets with in its passage through the substances or solid parts of which they are composed ; in that case , the warmth of covering would be -alutay-s2ccz-terisparibus , as the quantity of materials of which it is compc)sed ; but thal : this is not the case , the following , as well as the foregoing experi ments clearly elrince .
Having , in the exyteriment N'-4 , aseertained the warnath of 16 grains of raw silk I now repeated the experiment with the same qualltity , -or weight ?
of the ravelings of white taffietyn and afterwards with a like quantity of common seu7ing silks cut into lengths of about two inches .
The following table shows the results of these three experi ments - .
Here , notsxithstanding that the quantity $ of the silk were the same in the three experiments and though ila each of thelll it was made to occupy the same space , yet the wYarluth of the coverings which utere formed urere very diSerent , owing to the diflSerent dlsposition of the tnaterial .
The raw silk Btas vertr fine , and was voery equally distributed through the space it occuItied , at1dL itforlned a wartn coveringO Tlle ravelings of ta-tEety were also Sne , but not so fille ( as the raw silk , and of course the interstices loetsveen its threads were greater , and itw was less warln ; but the cut :ings of sewing silk were very coarse and consequently it was very unequally distributed in the space in which it sMas confined ; and it made a very bad covering for collfitling heat .
It is clear from the results Or the five last experiments , that f the air which occupies the interstices of bodiesn made use of for covering , acts a very importatst part Eita the operation of COllfining heat ; yet I shall ?
ostpone the exatlaination of that circumstance till I shall have given an acec)unt of several other experimetltsn whichn I think will throw still more light tIpon that subject .
Bum before I go any farther I will gis7e an account of three experiments BJhicll I tnaden or rather the same experiment which I repeated three times the saule dayn ill order to see how ir experiments made according to the method here described , may be depended on , as being regular in their results .
Theglass globe ofthepassage-thermometerbeingfil]ed with 16 grains of cottorl-wool , the instrulnent ntas laeated and cooled three times successivelyS when the tinzes of cooling were observed as follows : -Heatlost .
Exp. 16 .
Exp. *87 .
| Exp. 18 .
, ... . .
toO .
, _ 600 82 " 84 " 83 " soo 96 9S 9S 4 ' ' w18 117 ]6 Soo 152 l SS 15 1 20 ' 2Q 1 22 1 220 loo 380 377 377 Total times 1049 1047 | '42 a )O sir BEN J AMIN THOMPSON S the difference of the times of cooling in these three experiments vere extremely small ; but , regular as these experiments appear to have been in their results , they were not more so than the other experiments made in the same way , many of which were repeated two or three times , though , for the sake of brevity , I have put them down as single experiments .
But to proceed in the accoutlt of my investigations relative to the causes of the sn armth of warm clothing .
Having found that the fineness and equal distribution of a body or substance made use of to form a covering to confirle heat , contributes so much to the warulth of the covering , I vas desirous , in the next place to see the effect of condetlsing the covering , its quantity of matter remaining the same , but its thickness being diminisheel in proportion to the irlcrease of its density The experiment I made for this purpose was as folloBts : I took:16 graitas of common sewing silka neither very fine nor very course , and winding it about the bulb of the therlmometer in such a manner that it entirely covered itX and wras as nearly as possible of the same thickness in enrery part , I replaced the thermotneter in its cylinder and globe , and heating it itl boiling wwater9 cooled it in iee and water , as in the foregoing experiments .
The results of the experiment vrere as may f be seen in the following table ; and itl order that it may be compared with t ; hose made with the same quaratity of silk diSreretltly disposed oi ; I have placed those experiments by the side of it : It is not a little remarliable , that though the covering. .
formedf of sewing silk 9found round the bulb of the thermometer in the gth experiment , appeared to have so little power of confining the heat when the instrument was very hot , or when it uras first plullged into the ice and water yet afterwards , when the heat of the thermometer approached mt ; lch nearer to that of the surrounding medium ) its ponJer of confining the heat which remained in the bulb of the thermomezterJ appeared to be even greater than that of the silk in the experiment No 1S , the time of cooling from 2c &gt; 0 to lo ' being in the one g'f , and EY UCU ms E %5 E ; 3 'v]M msS 52 d , Rt g.z ag W- &lt; ti , = .
, -d ; ,21n , ; &lt; Xv EXp , 5Exp .
20 .
Exp. 6 .
Exp. 21 .
Exp. 7 .
Exp. 224 Exp. 23 .
700 _____ 600 79t !
46 " 83 " 45 " So " 46 " 42 $oo gs 63 93 bo 93 62 56 40 ' ow8 89 117 83 1 lS 83 74 go ' w62 126 wG2 X 15 ^o 117 lo8 20 ' 2gg 200 22 1 179 2 18 180 168 loo 426 410 378 37o 376 38S 38 9 , .
Totstimes 1l lt3 934 ro4,6 SS2 10,32 873 783 ^ 6X Sir BENJAMIN THOMPSON2S sn the other 34e't .
Tlle same appearance was observed in the following expe ; iluelats , ill which the bulb of the thermometer was surrounded by threads of wool ) of cottonn and of linen , or flaw , wound round itg in the like matlner as the sesvin ; silk was wound rourld it in the last experiment .
The follouring table shows the results of tluese experiments , B ?
ith the threads of various kinds , and that they may the more easily be compared u7ith those made with the surne quantity of the same substances in a dISerent forrzz , I have placed the accounts of theseexperilnents by the sicle of each other .
I have also added the account of an experiment , ln which 16 graitls Qf fine linen cloth were wrapped round the bulb of the thermometer , going round it nine times and being bound together at the top and bottom of itX so as completely to cover ity T-hat thread wound light round the bulb of the therl.nolueter should form a cosrering less warm than the same qualltity of wool or other raw materials of which the thread is tm.acle , surrotlnding the bulb of the therrnometer in a more loose mannel* , and consequently occupying a greater spacen is no more than mThat I expected , from the idea I had formed of the causes of the warmth of covering ; but I confess I was much surprised to find that there is so great a difference in the relative warmth of these two coverings , hen they are etnployed to confine great degrees of heat , and when the heat they confine is much less in proportion to the temperature of the surrounding tnedium .
This difference was very remarkable ; in the experiments with sheep 's wooln and with woollen thread , the warmth of the colrering formed of z6 grains of the former , was to that formed of 16 grains of the latter , the-n the bulb of the thermometer was heated to yoo and c ; 3oled to 600j as 79 to +6(the surrounding medium being at oo ) ; but afterwards , when the thermometer Ilad only fallen from 20 ' to loo of heat the warluth of the wool was to that of the sntoollerl thread only as4 , g6 to oo ; and in the experiments with lint , andwith linenA thread , when the heat was much abatetl , the covering of the thread appeared to be even warmer than that of the lillt though iro the beginning of the experiments , when the heat was much greaterX the lint was warmer than the thread , in theL proportion of 8-o-to -+6 .
lFrotn hence it should seemq that a covering may , uncler Ct1'tain circumstan\#163 ; es , be verygood for colzfining small degrees of warmths which would be but very ind-ifferent hen made use of for collfining a more intense heat , and zzEce verscr This , I believeJ is a new fact ; and , I think the knowledge of it xuay lead to further dlscoveries relative to the : causes of the martnth Of coverings , or the ulanner in which heat makes its passage through themw But I forbear to enlarge vlpon this subject , till I shall have given an-account of several -otI &lt; er experiinents , -which I think throw tuore light upon it , nand which will consequently render the investigation tasier and more satis factory .
With a view to detertnine how far the power which certairl bodies appear to possess of confirling heat , when made use of as covering , depends UpOll the natures of those bodiesn considered as chytusical substances , or UpOtl the chylmical principles of which they are composecIX I made that folle3Nvitag experiments .
As charcoal is supposed to be composed altnost ent-irely of phlogiston , I thought that if that principle FtELS the cause either of the conducting posrrern or the riota -condlucting power of the bodies which contain its I should discover it by luaking the experiment with charcoal ) as I had done with variotls other bodies .
Accordingly , having filled the globe of the passage thermotneter with 176 grains of that substance it1 very fine pourder ( it having been pounded in a 1nortar , and sifted through a fine sieve ) , the bulb of the therluonzeter leln ; surrounded by this powder , the instrument was heated in boiling water , and being aftersvards plunged itato a mixture of pounded ice and waterX the times of cooling were observed as mentio1flled in the following table .
I afterwards repeated the experiment with lampblack , and with very pure , and very dry wood aslaes ; the restllts of which experiments were as under nentioned * The bulb of the thermometer surrounded by o z76grainsofEne t76grainsofEne 195 grains of 307 grairls of powder of charpowderof charlampblack .
pure dry wood X coal .
coal .
ashes. .
Exp. No. 24 .
Exp No. 25 .
Exp. No. 26 .
Exp. No. 27 .
700 600 79 , , 9It ' 124 " 96 soo 95 91 a 18 92 400 zoo jog 34 '7 30 ' tS9 33 164 os6 20 ' 996 192 t 237 18S 10 ' 331 321 394 3Iz TotaI times .
940 937 117 t927 Experiments upon HeatX 6s The experim^at , N ' 25 , BrAs silnply a repetition of that numbered 24 , and was made immediately after it ; but , in moving the thermometer about in the former experiment the powder of charcoal which filled the globe vas shaken a little together , and to this circumstance I attribute the difference in the results of the two experiments .
In the experiments with lampblack and with wood asiles , the times taken up in cooling from 700 to 600 were greater than those employed in cooling from 600 to soo ; this most probably arose from the considerable quantity of heat COl1tained by these substances , which was first to be disposed of , before they could receive and communicate to the-surrounding medium that fvvthich was contained by the bulb of the thermo sneter .
NIDCCXCIIe K The next experiment I made was wZith semez Iycopodii , c-omrnonly called witch-rnealX a substance which possesses very extraordinary properties .
It is almost impossible to wet it ; a quantity of it strewed upon the surface of a basin of water , laot only swims upon the water withollt being wetn but it prevents other bodies from being wet which are plunged into the water through it ; so that a piece of money , or other solid body , may be taken from the bottom of the basirl hy the naked hand , with out wetting the harld ; which is one of the tricks comlmonly shovll by the jugglers in the country : this meal covers the hand , and descellding alotlg with it to the bottom of the basin clefell , ds it from the water .
This substance has the appear arlce of all exceeding fine , light , and very luoveable yellonr powder , and it is very itlflamlnable ; so Inuch son that beilag blown out of a quill into the flame of a candle , it flashes like gunpowder , and it is made use of in this manrler in our theatres for imitating lightning .
Conceiving that there must have been a strong attractio between this substance and air , and suspecting , from some cir culustances attending sonze of the foregoing experiments , that the warlmth of a covering depends not merely upon the finelless of the substance of which the covering is formed , and the disposition of its parts , but that it arises in some measure from a certain attraction between the substance and the air which fills its interstices I thought that an experiment with semen Iycopodii might possibly throw some light upon this matter ; and in this opinion I was not altogether mistalien9 as will ap pear by the results of the three following experiments .
The bulb of the thermometer surrounded by 2S6 grains of semen Iycopodii. .
* Q. Cooled .
Cooled .
4 , t Heated .
@ , .
= Exp. No. 28 .
Exp. No. 29 .
&lt; Exp. No. 3o .
70rW_O 60 ' 1461t 3LeS7 " ' ' 2^30 , S0 ' 162 1 60 20 ' 68 4 ' ' 17S 170 30 ' 63 so ' 209 gos 4 ' ' 76 20 ' 284 288 so ' 92 I 10 ' 502 S13 60 ' 3I6 -7 ' ls85 .
I , Total times .
l 478 149 I_ 2459 Experiments upon Heat .
67 In the last experiment ( NTo So ) the result of wl-wicl-l was so very extraordinary ?
the instrument rwas cooled to oo in thaw ing ice , after which it was plunged uddenly into boiling wa ter , where it reluained till the inclosH thermQlneter had acquired the heat of 700 , which took up no less than 24tS6 se-conds , or above 40 minutes ; and it had remained In the boiling srater full a minute and an half before the mercury in the thermometer showed theleast sign of rising .
Having at length been put into motion , it rose very rapidly 40 or 50 degrees , after which its motion gradually abating became so slonr , that it took up $8rS seconds , or solnething lsore than 26 minutes , in rising from 600 to 700 , though the temperature of the medium in which it was placed during the whole of this time was very nearly -800 ; the mercury in the barometer standing but little short of 27 Paris inches .
All the different substances which I had yet made use of i these experiments for surrounding or covering the bulb of the thermometer , fluids excepted , had , in a greater , orin a less degree , confined the heat ; or prevented its passing i}ltO or out of the thermometer so rapidly as it would have done , had there been rlothing but air in the glass globe , in the centre of which the bulb of the therluometer was suspended .
But the great question is , hosr , or in hat manner , they produced this effect ?
And first , it was not in consequence of their own non-conducting powers , simply considered ; for , if illstead of being only bad conductors of heat , we suppose them to have been totally impervious to heat , their volumes or solid colltents were so exceelingly small in proportion to the capaciwty of the globe in which they vzere placed , that , had they had no effiect whatever upon the air ISlling their interstices , that air w-ould have been sufficielat to have conclucted all the heat commullicated , in less tilone than was actually taken up in the experiment .
The diameter of the globe being,6 inches , its contents amounted to 2 , l4466 cubic inches ; and the contents of the bu--lb of the thermometer being only o , o871 z of a cubic inchy ( its diameter being or of an inch ) the space between the bulb of the thermolaleter and the internal surEace of the globe amounted to , l446-60 , o871 290,57a5SS cubic illclles ; the whole of which space was occupied by the substances by which the bulb of the thermometer was surrounded in the experi ments in questione But-though these substances occupied this space they were far from filling it ; by much the greater part of it being filled y by the air which occupied the interstices of the substances in question It1 the experiment Nto 4 , this space was occupied by z6 grains of raw silk ; and as the specific gravity of raw silk is to that of waXr as 17g4 to looo , the volume of this silk was equal to the Yolume of 9,4422 grains of water ; and as l cubic inch of water weighs 25S , -l8tS grairls , its volume tas equal to 2 95'34,4 85 o-o , og72g4 of a cubic inch ; and , as the space it occupied axnounted to 2 , oG7$S---cubic inches , it appears that the silk filled no more than about -5I5 part of the space in which it was confirled , the res.t of that space being filled with air .
In the experiment N ' , when the space between the bulb of the thermometer and the glass globe , in the centre of hich it was confiled , was filled with nothing but air , the time taken up by the thermometer in cooling from 700 to loo was 576 seconds ; but in the experiment N ' 4 wrhen this samespace was filled Witil 54 parts air , and 1 part raw silk , the time of cooling was 1 284 seconds .
Now , supposing that the silk had been totally incapable of conducting any heat at alls if we suppose , at the same time , that it had no power to prevent the air relnaining in the globe from cotlducting it , in that case its presence in the globe could only have prolonged the time of cooling in proportion to the quantity of the air it had displaced to the quantity xemaining , that is to say , as o is to + , or a little more than lo seconds .
But the time of cooling was actually prolotlged 708 seconds , ( for in the experilauent Nto , it was j76 seconds , and in the experiment NQ a it was 1284 : seconds , as has just been observed ) ; and this shows , that the silk not only dict IlOt conduct the heat itself , but that it prer7ented the air by which its interstices were filled frc)m conducting it ; ox , at lefasts it greatly weakened ; its power of conducti-ng ite The next question whi(la arises is , how air can be prevented from conducting heat ?
and this necessagly involves another , which is , how does air conduct heat ?
If air conducted heat , as it is probable that the metals and water , and all other solid bodies and unelastic fluids conduct it , that is to say , if its particleso remaining in their places , the heat passed from vne particle to another , through the uThole mass as there is no reason to suppose that the propagation of heat is necessarily in right lines I cannot conceive llow the ir2terposition of so small a quantity of any solid body as 5I5 part of the volutne of the air could have effected so re markable a diminution of the conducting power of the airX as appeared in the experiment ( N ' 4 ) with raw silk , above men tioned .
If air and water conducted heat in the same ntanner , it is more than probable that their conducting po-wers might be impaired by the same means ; but when I made the experiment with water by filling the glass globe , in the centre of which the bulb of thethertrlometer was suspended , with that fluid , and afterwards varied the experiment by adding 16 graitls of rawsilk to the water , I did not find that the conclucting power of the water was sexlsibly impaired by the presetlce of the silk .
But we have Just seen that the same silk , luixed with all equal volume of airy diminished its conducting power in a very remarkable degree ; consequently ) ther-e is gl eat reason to conclude that water and air conduct heat in a different manner But the following experiment , I think , puts the matter beyorld all doubt .
It is well knownn that thepowzer which air possesses oF holding water in solution is augmented by heat ?
and dituinished by cold , and thatn if hot air is saturated Uwith water and if this air is aRerwards cooled a part of its water is necessarily deposed .
I took a cyliildrlcal bottle of very clear transparent glass , about 8 irxclnes ill dialueter ) and 12 inches high , with a short and narrow neck , and ssuspending a small piece of linen rag , moderately wet , in the tnicldle of it , I plunged it into a large vessel of water , warmed tQ about lQ ' of itahrellheitns thermometer , where I suffered it to remain till the contained air was not only warm , but thoroughly saturated witnh the snoisture which it attracted from the linen rag , the mouth of the bulb being well stopped up during this time with a good corl ; this being donev I removed the corlE for a monzent , to take away the linen rag , and stopping up the bottle again immediatelys I took it out of the warm water , and plunged it into a large cylindrical jar , -ahout 12 illtheS ill diameter , and ld inches higln , containing Just so much icecold water , that , when the bottle was plunged into it , and quite covered by it , the jar was quite full .
As the jar was of very fine transparent glass , as well as the bottle , and as the cold water contained ill the jar was perfectly clear , I could see what passed itl the bottle most distinctly ; and having taliell care to place the jar upon a table near the svindowg in a very favourable lightn I set myself to observe the appearances which silould take place , with all that anxious expectation utllich a conviction that the result of the experiment must be decisive naturally inspired .
I mras certaill , that the air contained in the bottle could not part with its heat , without at the same time , that ss to say , at the same 2SQmeSt9 and in R.e snze placen parting with a proportiola of its water ; if , therefore , the heat penetrated the nnass of air from the centre to the surEace9ortassed through it from particle to particle , in the same mallner as it is prolba .
by tizat it passes through water , and all other unelastic fleuids , by far the greatest part of the air contain ( l in the bottle would part with its heat when not vctually in contt with the glass , and a proportional part of its water being let fall at the same time , and in the sa ?
no place , Mtould necessarily descend in the form of rain ; and , though this rain rrlig , ht be too fine to be visible in its descent , yet ; Iwas sure I should filled it at the bottom of the bottle , lf not in visible drops of water , yet in that kind of cloudy covering which cold glfass acquires from a contact with hot steam or w-atery vapour .
But if the particles of air , instead of communicating their heat from one to another , from the centre to the surface of the bottle , each in its turn and for itself , came to the surface of the bottle , and there deposited its heat and its water , I concltlded that the cloudiness occasioned by this deposit of water would appear all ourer the bottle ) or , at least , not more of it at the ltottom than at the sides , but rather less ; and this I found to be the case in fact .
rrhe cloudiness first made its appearance upon the sides of the bottle , near the top of it ; and from thence it gradually spread itself downsvards3 till , growing fainter as it descended lo^rer , it was hardly visible at the distance of half an iNCll from the bottom of the bottle ; and upon the bottom itselfn which was nearly flat , there vas scarcely the smallest appearance of cloudiness .
These appearances , I think , are easy to be accounted for .
The air immediately in colltact with the glass being cooled , and having deposited a part of its mJater upon the-surface of the glass , at the same time that it communicates to it its heat , slides downnvards by the sides of the bottle in consequence of its increased specific gravitJr , and , taking its place at the bottom of the bottle , forces the whole mass of hot air upwards ; wllichs in its turn colnring to the sides of the bottle , there deposits its heat and its water , and aftervwrards bendin ; its course downwards , this circulation is contirlued till all the air in the bottlen has acquired the exact temperature of the water in the jar .
Frorn hence it is clear why the first appearance af conden$ed vapour is near the top of the bc}the , as also why the g-reatest collection of vapour is in that part7 and that so very small a quantity of it is found nearer the bottom of the bottle This experiment confirmed lue in arl opinion which I had for some time etltertained , that , though the particles of air individuallyn or each for itself , are capable of recei-vilag and transporting heat , yet air in a quiescent state , or as a fluid whose parts are at rest with respect to each other , is not capable of conductlng it , or giving it a passage ; ill short that heat is incapable of passing thro4gZ ) a mass of air , penetrating : from one particle of it to another , and that it is to this circum$tance that its non-conducting power is principally owing .
It is-alsfo to this circumstance , in a great measure , that it is owing that its non-conducting power , or its apparent urarmth when emplotred as a covering for coilfining heat , is so reluarkably increased upon being mixed with a s ; nall quantity of any very fine , light , solid substance , such as the raw silk , fur , Eider down , &amp;c. in the foregoing experiments : for as I have already observell , though these substances , in the very small quantities in which they wSere made use of , could hardly have prevented , AlDCCXClle IJ in any considerable degree , the air from conducting or giving a passage to the heat , had it been capable of passing through it , yet they might very much impede it ill the operation of. .
* transportlng lt But there is another circumstan(e vllich it is zecessary to take into the accounts and that ls the at-tract ; ion which subsists between air and the bodles above merltioned , and other like substances , coastitutitzg 1latural and artificial clotlling ForS though the incapacity of air to give a passage to heat in the manner solid bodies and notl-elastic Huids pertnit it to pass through them , may ellable us to account for its wrarmth under certain circumstancess yet the bare a(lmission of this principle does not seem to be sllfficient to account for the very extraordi nary degrees of wwarmth which we find in furs and in feathersn and in various other kinds of natural and artificial clothing ; nor evetl that which we find in snout ; for if we suppose the particles of air to be at liberty to carry off the heat which txshtse bodies are meant to confineX without any other obstruction or hitaderance than that arising from their vis inerti or the force necessary to put them in motion , it seems probable that the succession of fresh particles of cold air and the consequent 1QSS of laeatn would be much tYlore rapid than we find it to be in fact .
rrhat an attraction and a -arery strong onen actually subsists betveen the particles of air9 and the fine hair or furs of beaStS9 the feathers of birds , WOOlg &amp; C. appears by the obstillacy with which tToese substances retain the air sYhich adheres to themg even when ilutnersed in water and -put ulader the receiver ofan airwputnp ; and that this attraction is essexltial to the Varmth of these bodiesX I thilak is very easy to be demon -strated In furs , for instance &gt; the attraction between theparticles of ... air , and the fine hairs in u7hicll it is concealed , being greater than the inc !
reased elasticity , or repulsion ofthose particles with regard to each other , arising from the heat cozntnunicated to them by the animal body , the air in the firs though heated9 is not easily displaced ; and this coat of confined alr is the real barrier which defends the animal body from the external cold .
Tlais air cannot ctzrry o\#162 ; the heat of the anitnalX becatlse it is itself confined , by its attraction to the hair or fiur ; and it transmits it with great difficulty , if it transurits it all , as has been abundantly show by the foregoing experiments .
Herce it appears why those furs which are the finest , longest ; and thickest , are likesvise the warmest ; and how the furs of the beaver , of the otterS and vf c : there like guadrupeds which live much itl water , and the feathers of water-fowls , are able to confine the heat of those animals in winter , notvitlastanding the extreme coldlless and great conducting power of the water in which they swiln .
The attraction between these substances , and the air which occupies their interstices , is so great , that this air is not dislodged even by the contact of * water ) but remailling in its place , it defends the body of the animal at the same time from being wet ) and from being robbed of its heat by the surrounding cold fluid ; and it is possible that the pressure of this flllid upon the covering of air confined in the interstices of the furf or feathers , may at the sametime increase its warmth ; or nonoconducting power , iil such a manner that the anitnal may not , in fact , lose more heat when itl water3 t ; han when ill air : for we llarre seen by the:foregoing experiments , that , under certain circuna$tances , the warmth of a covering is increased , lJy bringing its component parts nearer together , or by increasing its density even at the expense of itS5 thickness .
But this point will be filrther investigated hereafter .
Bears , wolves , foxes , hares , and other like quadrupeds , inhabitants of cold countries , which do not often take the watery have their fur much thicker upon their backs than upon their bellies .
The heated alr occupying the lnterstices of the hair$ of the animal tending nattlrally to rise upwards , in consequence of its increased elasticitys would escape with much greater ease from the backs of quadrupeds than from their bellies , had not Providence wisely guarded against this.evil by increasing the obstructions in those parts , whith entangle it and-confine it to the body of the animal .
And this , I think , atnoullts almost to a proof of the principles assumed relative to the manner in which heat is carried off by air , and the causes of the non-conducting po-wer of air , or its apparent warluth , +hell , S being combined with other bodies , it acts as a covering for confining heat The SllOWS which cover the surEace of the earth in winter inhigh latitudes are doubtless designed hy an all-provident Creator as a garment to deMend it against the piercing winds from the polar regions , which prevail during the cold season These winds , notwithstaladig the vast tracts of continent over hich they blosr , retaiXl their sharpness as long as the ground they pass over is covered wtll sno-w ; and it is not till , meeting sviftil the ocean , they acquire , from a contact with its waters , the heat which the snors prevent their acqeliring from the earthn that the edge o ; f their coldness is takela oW , and they gradually die away and are lostO The winds are always fotlnd to lbe much colder when the ground is covered ^tith snow than when it is bare , and this extraor(linarycoldness is vulgarlysuppo.sed tc ) be cczmmunicated to the air lby the snonv ; but this is an errontous opinion ; fvr these winds are in general much colder than the snow itself : Teley retaila their coldness , because the snow prevents them from being warlned at the expense of the earth ; eand this is a striking proof of the use of the snows in preserving the heat of the earth dalring the winter , in cold latitudes .
It is retuarkable that these winds seldom blow from the poles directly towards the equator , but from the land towards the sea .
Upon the eastern coast of North America the colcl winds come from the north-west ; but upon the westerIl coast of Europe , they blow from the north-east .
That they should blQW tosvar(ls those parts wkhere they can most easily acquire the heat they are in : search of , is not extraordinary ; and that they shotlld gradually cease and die away , upon being svarrned by a contact with the waters of the ocearl , is likewise agreeable to the nature and causes of their nnotion ; and if I might be allowed a-conjectllre respecting the principal use of the seas , or the reason why the proportion of water upon the surface of our globe is so great , compared to that of the land , it is to maintain a =nore equal temperature in the difNerent climates , by heating or cooling the utincls which at certain periods blow from the great contillents .
That cold uTinds actually grour -much milder upon passing oarer the sea9 and tIzat hofs wilads are refresned by a contact Wittl its waters , ls very certain ; and it is equally certain that the winds from the ocean are , in zll clilnates , much more tempe rase than those wlaichblow from 4bhe land .
In the islatids of Great Britairl and Irelarld , there is not the least doubt hast thy great mildness of the cliluate is entirely ovv7ing to their separation from the neighbouring continent by so large a tract of sea ; and in all similar situations , in every part of the globes similar causes are found to produce similar effects .
The cold northwest winds , which prevail upon the coast of North Alnerica durilag the winter , seldom extend abon7e loo leagues from the shore- , and they are always found tc ) be iess violent , and less piercing , as they are further from the land .
lthese periodical winds from the continents Or Europe and North America prevail most towards the end of the montlk of FebruaryX and in the month of March ; and I conceive that they contribute very esselltially towards bringing oll an early sprilag , an(l a fruitful summer , particularly when they are very violent in the moni ; h of March , and if at that time the grourld is well c-overed with snow .
tlnhe whole atmosphere of the polar regions bein ; , as it were , transported into the ocean by these winds , is there waruled and saturated ... wit l water : and , a great accumulatic)n of air upon the sea being the necessary consequence of the long cotltinuance of these cold w ; nds from the-shore , upon their ceasing the warm breezes from the sea necessarily commence , and , spreading themselves upon the land far and widej assist the returning sun in dismantlirag the earth of the remains of her winter garment , and in bringing forward into lifE all the manifold beauties of the new-born year This warlmed air which comes in from the seas having acquired its heat from a contact ntith the ocearl , is , of course , saturated with water ; and herlce the wtarm showers of April and WIay ?
so necessary to a fruitful season .
The ocean maat be considered as the great resereroir and equalizer of heat ; arud sts benign influences itl preservilag a proper temperature i ] the atmosphere operate in all seasons and in all clirrlates .
The parching w ; lds from tize larld under the torrid zone are cooled by a contact with 1tS waters , and , itl returr ) the breezes from the sea which , at certaill hours of the day come in-to the shores in almost all hot coutltries , bring with them refreshment , and as it wee , new life and vigour both to the animal and vegetable creatsont fainting and melting under the excessive heats of a burnixlg sun What a vast tract of country , now the most fertile upon the face of the glLobe , would be absolutely barrel and : urlinhabitable ola account of the excessives heatg were it not for these refreshing sea-breezes &gt; And is it not more than probable , that the extrernes of heat and of colcl in the different seasons in thetemperate and frigid-zones srould be quite intolerable , were it llot for the influence of the ocea in preserving an equability of tetnperature ?
And to these purposes the ocean is wonderfullywell adapted , not o:thy on account of the great pouter of vtater tcy absorb heatg and the vast depth and exte:lt of the different seas ( which are such that otze saulner or one winter could hardly be supposed to have any sensible eSect in heating or cooling this etlortnous-Xmass ) ; but also on accoutat of the continual circulation which is Garried oll itl the ocean itselfg by means of the currents which prevail in ity The waters under the torrid zorle being cJarried by these currents towards the polar regions , are there coolesl by a contact with the cold1 svinds , and , having thus cotnulutaicated their heat to these irlhospitable regions return towards the equator9 carrying with them refreshment for those parching clilmates .
The-wisdom and goodness of Providence have often been called in question with regarEl to the distribution of land and water upon the surface of our globe , the vast extent of the ocean having been considered as a proof of the little regard that has been paid to man in this distrlbutionv But the more light we acquire relative to the reat--const ; tution of things , and the various uses of the d ; erent parts of the visible creation the iess we shall be disposed to irldulge ourselves in suchfrivolous crltlclsms .

