Observations on the Structure of the Stomachs of different Animals , with a View to elucidate the Process of converting animal and vegetable Substances into Chyle .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read April 30 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1807 , p. 139 .
] The author 's observations on the stomachs of the porpoise and of ruminating animals , contained in two former communications , led him to believe that the fourth stomach of ruminating animals is subdivided during life , in a greater or less degree , into two cavities .
In the camel , and in some others , this division is permanent .
In the bullock , sheep , &amp;c. it is only occasional .
This arrangement leads to a presumption , that in the fourth stomach the food undergoes two changes , the one preparatory to the other .
With a view to investigate the subject , Mr. Home describes the internal structure of a series of stomachs , which he observes to form principal links in the gradation from the most perfectly ruminating to the truly carnivorous animals .
For ascertaining correctly the form of any stomach , it was found that it should not be distended at the time of the animal 's death ; that it should be examined as early as may be after death ; and that its form is best shown by gently distending it with air .
For the purpose of examining its internal membrane , it should be inverted previous to inflation ; by which means , the folds that are generally observable in that membrane wholly disappear , as they arise merely from its want of contractility , when compared to the more elastic nature of the external coats .
The stomachs of which Mr. Home has given descriptions , accompanied with drawings of most of them , are those of the turkey , cod , hare and rabbit ; beaver and dormouse ; the water rat , common rat and mouse ; the horse and ass ; the kanguroo ; the hog , pecari , and elephant ; the mole ; the stoat and armadillo ; together with those of men and of dogs .
The circumstances principally noticed in these descriptions are the extent to which the articular lining is carried ; the appearance of the membrane that succeeds its termination ; the situation and forms of any glands that are observable in the several parts of each stomach ; and , more especially , a contraction which in some animals forms a permanent division of the last stomach into two parts , and even in others , as man , where no such division has been observed .
Mr. Home is of opinion , that a similar , though partial , subdivision takes place during life by muscular contraction , as some traces of it may in general be detected after death , if the stomach be examined early and under favourable circumstances .
From the anatomical structure of the different stomachs described in the present and two preceding papers , Mr. Home is led to consider the functions belonging to the several parts of that organ .
The cuticular lining of the first , second , and third stomachs of ruminants has occasioned them to be considered as mere reservoirs ; but since they are supplied with secretions , he thinks that , like those in the crops of birds , they assist in softening the food and in preventing fermentation .
It appears also , from Dr. Stevens 's experiments , that even these have somewhat of a solvent power .
Mr. Home makes a remark that he thinks deserving of notice , respecting the preparation of food in the first cavity ; namely , that a certain quantity is always retained there , even though the animal has fasted for a whole week previous to its death .
The digestive process of ruminants he considers as very similar to what takes place in birds with gizzards , who swallow the food without mastication .
It is then softened in the crop ; after which the gizzard , like the .
grinders of the ruminant , prepares it for solution and conversion into chyle .
This general resemblance having led him to a more minute comparison of their glandular structure , it was observed , that at the entrance into the gizzard there is a glandular zone that secretes the true gastric juice , having the power of dissolving the food .
This solution , according to Mr. Home , is the second step in the process of digestion , and is effected in ruminants by the cardiac portion of the fourth stomach .
The glands , from which this fluid is secreted , are very distinctly seen in the upper portion of the stomach of the deer ; and in the lower portion are other glands , which secrete a fluid , to complete the process of digestion by forming chyle .
In the porpoise and whale tribe the two processes of solution and chylification are completely separate , as there can be no doubt of the food being dissolved before it arrives at the third stomach ; since the opening leading into that cavity is too small to admit anything but fluids to pass , and the analogy between the second and third cavities of the whale , with the two portions of the fourth of ruminants , is very great .
In the cod there are only two cavities , one for solution , with a structure that bears a strong resemblance to that of the second cavity of the porpoise , and having orifices similar to those in the plicated portion of the stomach of the deer .
Beyond this first cavity in the cod , the food cannot pass till it is broken down ; so that the analogy between the fish and the porpoise is very strong : in both one and the other , solution is a step previous to the formation of chyle , which is performed by secretions from glands of a different structure , and applied to the food in a different cavity .
And in this , the bird , the fish , and the whale tribe , all agree .
The animals most nearly allied to the ruminants in their mode of digestion are those which occasionally ruminate , as the hare and the rabbit ; and in these also that part of the stomach nearest to the oesophagus is never emptied , as happens in perfect ruminants .
The next variety in the process of digestion is that of the beaver and dormouse , in both of which there is a glandular structure , peculiar in quantity , which seems to correspond with the solvent glands of other animals , and renders it probable that an increased secretion of solvent liquor renders rumination unnecessary .
Next to these follow animals with a cuticular reservoir , in which the food macerates before it is submitted to the process of digestion , as in the water rat , the common rat , and the mouse .
In the first there is a permanent division , but in the two last it is only muscular .
The stomachs of the horse and ass are also very nearly allied to these in their structure , and must be considered of the same kind .
That of the kanguroo is peculiar , having pouches at its cardiac extremity lined with a glandular membrane .
This stomach is , from its unusual length , more capable of subdivision into a number of cavities by muscular contraction ; and Mr. Home thinks this form likely to facilitate regurgitation for the purpose of ruminating , which this animal has been seen to perform .
The other stomachs that are observed to have pouches at their cardiac extremity are those of the hog , pecari , hippopotamus , and elephant .
That of the hog , excepting for a single pouch at its cardiac extremity , would very much resemble those of the horse or rat .
The stomachs that come next under consideration are those adapted to digest animal food .
In these there is little difference observable in the cardiac portion ( because animal substances are easily dissolved ) ; but the principal difference observable is at the pylorus , because , as Mr. Home conceives , some animal substances , after solution , are less readily changed into chyle than others .
In the most perfectly carnivorous animals , the internal membrane is extremely uniform in its appearance ; but even in these a division or capability of it by muscular contraction is observable .
The first instance in which Mr. Home remarked this division in the human stomach , was in a woman who was burnt to death , after having been unable to take much nourishment for several days before .
But since that time , as he has taken frequent opportunities of examining the human stomach recently after death , he finds that this contraction may generally be met with in a greater or less degree ; but when a body is examined as much as twenty-four hours after death , this appearance is rarely to be met with ; which accounts for its not having been before particularly noticed .
The series of stomachs arranged according to their structure , which has been given , includes the principal peculiarities that appear to Mr. Home capable of influencing the process of digestion : it is , however , considered only as a first imperfect attempt , which he hopes that other inquirers will render more complete .

