A paper was read , entitled , " Researches towards establishing a Theory of the Dispersion of Light " , No. IV .
By the Rev. Baden Powell , M.A. , F.R.S. , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the Uni ?
versity of Oxford .
In his former communications to the Royal Society the author had instituted a comparison of the results of observation and of theory with regard to the dispersion of light , in the instances of the respective indices for the standard rays in fifteen different cases of transparent media ; and had found a sufficiently close agreement in the cases which gave the lower numbers ; but there yet appeared to be an increasing discrepancy as an advance was made towards the higher .
The theoretical formula employed in this investigation was one derived from the undulatory hypothesis , by a process involving some limitations , which rendered it only approximative .
By pursuing the calculations to a greater degree of developement , or by adopting methods of a more precise character , such as those of M. Cauchy and of Mr. Kelland , the author was led to hope that a more close coincidence might be obtained .
The formula ?
of M. Cauchy , however , involved calculations of so elaborate and overwhelming a character , that he was induced to make trial of the method of Mr. Kelland , applying it , in the first instance , to the case of the most highly dispersive substance , namely , oil of Cassia , in which the greatest discrepancy had before appeared .
The object of the present communication is to state the results obtained , together with the necessary data employed in the calcu ?
lations ; and also to elucidate the general method , so as to render it more easily applicable to other cases which may arise in the further prosecution of the determination of specific indices .
For this purpose a general statement is given of Mr. Kelland 's method , in whose formula ?
, it is easy , knowing the value of the wave-length in air , and taking the indices as given by observation for that particular medium , to introduce the values of the wave-length in the medium .
Two of the constants are then determined for that medium ; and by the aid of these , combined with the indices given by observation , a value of the third constant is deduced for each ray : and the very ?
fication of the theory will result from the equality of the respective values of this latter constant thus obtained .
The author then gives tables exhibiting the comparison of observed refractive indices with the results of Mr. Kelland 's theory ; first , in the case of sulphuret of carbon , at a temperature of 12 ?
( centigrade ) ; next , of the same substance at 22 ?
; and lastly , of oil of Cassia : from which it appears , that the accordance between the results of observation and of theory is sufficiently within the limits of the errors in the experimental data to satisfy all reasonable expectation .
A paper was also in part read , entitled , " Experimental Researches in Electricity .
" Twelfth Series .
By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. A letter was read from Dr. Marshall Hall , in reply to a note contained in the paper of Mr. Newport , published in the last volume of the Philosophical Transactions .

