]\gt ; PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
TICAL AND ScIEyCES .
BAKERIAN CTIJRE :of Electricity .
By Prof. Sir J. J. , O.M. , ] Lecture delivered received June [ PLATES 1\mdash ; 3 .
] In 1886 , Goldstein obseryed that when the cathode in a tube was pierced with holes , the electrical discharge did not stop at the cathode ; behind the cathode , beams of could be seen streaming through the holes in the way represented in fig. 1 .
He ascribed these pencils of light to rays FIG. 1 .
through the holes into the gas behind the cathode ; and from their associatlon with the channels through the cathode he called these rays Kanalstrahlen .
The colour of the light behind the cathode depends upon the gas in the tube : with air the light is yellowish , with hydrogen rose with neon the gorgeous neon red , the effects with this gas being exceedingly striking .
The rays produce phosphorescence when they strike ainst the VOL. LXXXIX .
Sir J. J. Thomson .
walls of the tube ; they also affect a photographic plate .
Goldstein could not detect any deflection when a permanent magnet was held near the rays .
In 1898 , however , W. Wien , by the use of very powerful magnetic fields , deflected these rays and showed that some of them were positively charged ; by measuring the electric and magnetic deflections he proved hat the masses of the particles in these rays were comparable with the masses of atoms of hydrogen , and thus were more than a thousand times the mass of a particle in the cathode ray .
The composition of these positive rays is much more complex than that of the cathode rays , for whereas the particles in the cathode rays are all of the same kind , there are in the positive rays many different kinds of particles .
We can , however , by the following method sort these particles out , determine what kind of particles are present , and the velocities with which they are moving .
Suppose that a pencil of these rays is moving parallel to the axis of striking a plane at right angles to their path at the point ; if before they reach the plane they are acted on by an electric force parallel to the axis of , the spot where a particle the plane will be deflected parallel to through a distance given by the equation where , are respectively the charge , mass , and velooity of the particle , and A a constant depending upon the strength of the electric field and the length of path of the particle , but quite independent of , or If the particle is acted upon by a netic force parallel to the axis of it will be deflected parallel to the axis of , and the deflection in this direction of the spot where the particle strilces the plane will be giveu by the equation where is a quantity depending on the magnetic field and length of path of the particle , but independent of .
If the particle is acted on simultaneously by the electric and magnetic forces , the spot where it strikes the plane will , if the undeflected position be taken as origin , have for co-ordinates B. ( 1 ) Thus no two particles will strike the plane in the same place , unless they have the same value of and also the same value of ; we see , too , that if we know the value of and , we can , from equation ( 1 ) , calculate the values of and , and thus find the velocities and character of the particles composing the positive rays .
Rays of Positive From equation ( 1 ) we see that .
( 2 ) all the particles which have a given value of strike the plane on a parabola , which can be photographed by allowing the particles to fall on a photographic plate .
Each type of particle in the positive rays will produce a separate parabola , so that an inspection of the plate shows at a glance how many kinds of ) articles there are in the rays ; the measurement of the parabolas , and the use of equation ( 2 ) , enablefi us to find the values of corresponding to them , and thus to make a complete analysis of the gases in the positive rays .
To compare the values of ?
to the different parabolas , we need only measure the values of on these parabolas corresponding to a constant value of .
We see from equation ( 2 ) that the values of are proportional to the squares of the values of Thus , if we know the value of for one parabola , we can with very little labour deduce the values of ) for all the others .
As the parabola corresponding to the hydrogen atom is foumd on practically all the plates , and as this can be at once recognised , since it is always the most deflected parabola , it is a very easy matter to find the values of for the other particles .
] made by the positive rays after they have suffered electric and ynetic deflections are reproduced in figs. 2 and 3 ( Plate 1 ) .
The apparatus I have used for the rays is shown in A is a bulb of from 1 to 2litres capacity in which the discharge passes , the cathode placed in the neck of the bulb .
The position of the front of the cathode in the bulb and the shape of the bulb where it joins the neck have a very considerable influence on the brightness of the rays and the distribution of velocities among the particles .
If the cathode projects into the bulb , the pressure of the in the bulb when the rays are the brightest is apt to be inconveniently low , and the same is true when , FIG. 4 .
FIG. 5 .
Sir J. J. Thomson .
though the cathode is kept in the neck , the bulb swells out gradually from the neck instead of off abruptly .
I have got the best results by 1naking the transition from the neck to the bulb as abrupt as possible and putting the front of the cathode flush with the junction of the neck and the bulb , in the way shown in fig. ; this gives better results than the cathode is placed as in The form of cathode which I have found to the best pencil of rays is shown in fig. 4 .
The front of the cathode is an aluminium cap , carefully worked so as to be symmetrical about an axis : this cap fits on to a cylinder made of soft iron with a hole bored along the axis ; the object of making the cathode of iron is to screen the rays from magnetic force while they are passing through the hole .
A case fitting tightly into this hole contains a long narl .
OW tube which is the channel though which the rays pass into the tube behind the cathode .
This tube is the critical part of the apparatus , and failure to obtain a good pencil of rays is generally due to some defect here .
As the length of this tube is very long in proportion to its diameter\mdash ; the length of most of the tubes I have used is about 6 and diameter from to mm.\mdash ; it requires considerable care to get it straight enough to allow an unintelTupted passage to the rays .
The method we use is to start with a piece of fine copper tubing and draw it out until the diameter is reduced to the right value , the proper length is cut off , and this is rolled between two surface plates , until optical examination sbows that it lets a pencil of light pass without obstruction through the tube ; it is useless to attennpt to experiment with positive rays unless this tube is exceedingly straight .
The rays themselves exert a sand blast kind of action on the tube and disintegrate the metal ; after prolonged use the metallic dust may accumulate to such an extent that the tube gets silted up , and obstructs the passage of the rays .
The cathode is fixed into the glass vessel by a little wax ; the joint is made so that the only channel of communication from one side of the cathode to the other is through the tube in the cathode .
The wax joint is surl.ounded by a water jacket to prevent the wax being heated by the discharge .
The arrangements used to produce the electric and magnetic fields to deflect the rays are shown at and M. An ebonite tube is turned so as to have the shape shown in fig. 4 , and are two pieces of soft iron with carefully worked plane faces , placed so as to be parallel to each other , these are connected with a battery of storage cells and furnish the electric field .
and are the poles of an electromagnet separated from and by the thin walls of the ebonite box : when the electromagnet is in action there is a strong magnetic field between and ; the lines of magnetic force and electric force are by this ement parallel to each other and the electric of Positire Electricity .
and netic fields are as nearly as possible coterminous .
This arrangement was adopted for a special investigation in which it was desirable that the fields should not overlap ; for many purposes , for example , the analysis of the gases in the tube , this condition is not important , and the simpler arrangement shown in fig. 6 answers all the requirements .
Here the ebonite box is done away with , the electric field is produced between two parallel plates of , and the UneCic field is produced by an ynet w poles are on opposite sides of the tube .
The arrangement used for the rays is that designed by Mr. Aston and described in the 'Phil .
Mag 1911 , vol. 21 , p. 227 .
Plates of soft iron are placed between the electroand the discharge tube to prevent the discharge ected by the gnetic field .
The pressure in the tube behind the cathode must be kept low , this is done by means of a tube containing charcoal cooled by liquid air .
The pressure on the other side of the cathode is much higher .
A typical photograph taken with this apparatus is reproduced in fig. 7 .
It will be noticed that in addition to the parabolic arcs whose origin has already been discussed , thele are a series of lines approximately These secondary lines are due to particles which have been charged for a part only of the time they were in the electric and magnetic fields and are therefore not so much deflected as those which were charged for the whole time which produce the parabolas .
Some particles which are when they enter those fields lose their charges before they get through , while others which are uncharged to begin with gain a charge before they leave the fields .
We can distinguish between these cases in the following way .
Make the magnetic field M. ( fig. 8 ) overlap the electric field , so that in the region EM the particles are exposed to but not to electric forces .
Sir J. J. Thomson .
A particle which begins by being uncharged and first picks up a charge in this region will experience a magnetic without an electric deflection , so that the trace made on the photograph by the particles which pick up a charge will resemble fig. 9 , Now , consider the trace made by the particles which started with a charge but lost it before they got through : these , when they are in the EM , will have already experienced a considerable deflection so that the place where they get a magnetic without an electl'ic deflection will be at the most deflected end of the line and the shape of the trace they make on the plate will be somewhat like An example of this effect is shown in the photograph reproduced in fig. 10 .
Unless the pressure in the observation chamber is very low , few of the particles remain charged during the whole of the journey through the electrostatic and magnetic fields , and in this case the parabolas disappear , and only the lines due to the secondaries appear on the plate .
The parabolas are determined by the values of , thus an atom with a single charge would produce the same parabola as a diatomic molecule with a double ] .
We can , however , by the following method distinguish between parabolas due to particles with a single and those due to particles with more than one charge .
The parabolas are not complete parabolas , but arcs starting at a finite distance from the vertical , this distance is by equation ( 1 ) inversely proportional to the maximum kinetic energy possessed by the particle .
This maximum kinetic energy is that due to the arge on the pal'ticle falling from the potential of the anode to that of the cathode in the discharge tube .
Consider now the particles which have two : these acquire in the discharge tube twice as much kinetic energy as the particles with a single charge .
Some of these doubly charged particks will lose one of their charges while passing the long narrow tube in the cathode , and will emerge as rticles with a single charge ; they will , however , possess twice as much kinetic energy as those which have had one charge all the time .
Thus the stream of singly charged particles from the tube will consist of two sets , as much kinetic energy as the other ; the particles having twice the kinetic energy will strike the plate nearer to the vertical than the others , and will thus prolong beyond the normal length the arc of the parabola corresponding to the singly eharged particle .
An example of this is shown in the photograph reproduced in fig. 11 , where the line , due to a singly charged en atom for which , is prolonged until its emity is only half the normal distance from the verticil .
line on Rays of Positive Etectricity .
the gives , hence we conclude that this line is due to an atom of oxygen with two charges , whereas if the oxygen line had not been we should have concluded that was due to a singly charged atom with an atomic If the atom acquired more than two charges the prolongation of the atomic line would be still longer .
If , for example , it could acquire eight charges it would be prolonged until its extremity was only one-eighth of the normal distance from the vertical .
An example of this is shown in fig. 12 ( Plate 2 ) , where is the line due to the charged mercury atom , this approaches to within one-eighth of the normal distance , and the theory is verified by the appearance on the plate of the lines , , which correspond to mercury atoms with 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 charges .
The lines due to the one with 8 cannot be detected , but the intensity of the lines diminishes as the charge increases , and it is perhaps itimate to conclude that with more sensitive apparatus the line corresponding to the atom with charges be detected .
Using this method to uish between singly and multiply systems we find that the particles which produce the parabolas on the raphic plates may be divided into the following classes:\mdash ; 1 .
Positively electrified atoms with one charge .
2 , Positively electrified molecules with one 3 .
ified atoms with multiple 4 .
atively electrified atoms .
5 .
atively electrified nlolecules .
The production of a charged molecule involves more than the detachment of a corpuscle from the molecule , that of a atom reqnires the dissociation of the molecule as well as the electrification of the atom .
As the results are so different we naturally ask , Is the mechanism by which the charged atoms are produced the same as that which the charged molecules ?
There seems to me to be evidence that the charged atoms and molecules are produced by different ents .
We not infrequently find that some of the parabolas have characteristic peculiarities such as abrupt changes in intensity .
An example of this is shown in figs. 13 and where several of the lines broaden at points which are all in the same vertical line , showing that the particles where the broadening commences have all the same kinetic energy .
This indicates that at certain places in the discharge tube there is an abnormally large production of the pSrticles corresponding to these parabolas .
It will be noticed , however , that it is only some of the parabolas which show this effect , there are others which Sir J. J. Thomson .
are of approximately the same intensity bout .
The measurement of the parabolas shows that the uniform ones correspond to atoms while those with the swellings correspond to molecules .
Thus we may at certain places in the dark space have great changes in the production of charged molecules without any change in the production of charged atoms .
This proves , I think , that ) two are produced by different agencies .
Another ument in favour of this view is the great variation that occurs in the relative intensities of the lines due to the atoms and molecules of the same element when the conditions of discharge are slightly altered .
I will confine myself to the case of the lines due to the atoms and molecules of hydrogen .
By altel.ing the } ) osition of the cathode in the neck of the discharge tube we can make the line due to the atom either more or less intense than that due to the molecule .
Thus if the cathode is well inside the neck line due to the atom is more intense than that due to the molecule , while if the cathode is pushed forward into the bulb the line due to the molecule is more intense than that due to the atom .
Examples of this difference are shown in figs. 14 and 15 .
These changes in the position of the cathode involve changes in the pressure of the , for to get the positive rays well developed the pressure has to be higher when the cathode is in the neck than when it rudes into the bulb , so that it would seem that reduction of pressure favours the formation of charged molecules more than that of charged atoms .
In the discharge tube we have cathode rays , positively electrified atoms and molecules , and rays analoo.ouso to soft rays ; all these are known to ionisc a gas when they pass through it .
As far as my observations have gone the properties of the positive rays indicate that the cathode particles produce the positively charged molecules , while the moving positively electrified particles produce the positively electrified atoms .
I do not mean by this that under no tances can a cathode particle produce a positively atom , for it would probably do so if it struck one of the structural corpuscles , i.e. one of those which bind the two atoms in the molecule together .
The number of molecules struck in this way would , however , be only a small fraction of those struck by the rays , so that if this were the only source of ionisation the number of charged atoms would be small compared with of charged molecules .
This , however , is not the case , so that we conclude that moving positively charged atoms and molecules are in the main responsible for the dissociation which produces the positively charged atoms occurring in the positive rays .
I will now pass on to the consideration of another very interesting type of positive ray\mdash ; the multiply charged atom .
I say atom advisedly , because of Etectricity .
it is doubtful whether we get among the positiye rays multiply charged molecules .
The indication of a multiple charge is that the line to the charged carrier is abnormally towards the The only case of a line due to a molecule for which I have observed a suspicion of such a prolongation is that of the line which corresponding to a molecule of nitrogen or carbon monoxide .
There is reason for doubting whether this is agenuine prolongation of the molecular line , as , since for aluminium , if any aluminium atoms from the cathode got into the discharge tube , the prolongation might be that of the atomic line of aluminium rather than that of the line due to the molecule of The rarity of the doubly charged molecule seems to indicate that the shock which produces the double charge is sufficiently intense to dissociate the molecule into its atoms .
The uniformity of the intensity of the parabolas corresponding to the multiply atoms shows that they acquire this at one operation and not by repeated ionisation on their way to cathode .
The occurrence of the multiple charge does not seem to be connected with the valency or other chemical property of the atom .
Of all the elements whose lines I have studied , hydrogen and ( see p. 14 ) are the only ones which have never appeared with a double .
Elements as different in their chemical properties as carbon , nitrogen , , chlorine , helium , eon , a new gas whose atomic weight is 22 , argon , crypton , mercury , all give multiply charged atoms .
The fact that these multiple charges so frequently occur on atoms of the inert gases proves , I think , that they are not produced by any process of chemical combination .
All the esults point to the sion that the occurrence and nitude of the multiple charge is connected with the mass of the atom rather than with its valency or chemical properties .
We find , for example , the atom of mercury , the heaviest atom I have tested , can have as many as 8 charges , crypton can have as many as 5 , argon 3 , neon 2 , and so on .
There is evidence that when these multiple occur the process of ionisation is generally such that the atom starts either with one charge or with the naximum number , that in the ionisation of mercury vapour , for example , the mercury atom begins either with 1 or with 8 , and that the particles which produce the parabola corresponding to 5 charges , for example , started with 8 and lost 3 of them on its way through the tube in the cathode .
The intensity of the lines corresponding to multiply atoms varies greatly with what are apparently but small alterations in the condition of the discharge , a slight alteration in the pressure or in the Sir J. J. Thomson .
position of the cathode may make all the difference between the lines being quite or so faint as to be hardly visible .
We shall now pass on to consider the negatively electrified particles which are found mixed with the positive rays .
These have much the same energy as the positively electrified ones ; they are , in fact , positively electrified until they reach the cathode , they get neutralised after passing through it , and attract another corpuscle , thus negatively electrified before reaching the electric and magnetic fields .
As are moving past the corpuscJes at a very speed , in some cases as fast as 2 cm .
, it is evident that their attraction for the corpuscles must be very considerable , otherwise they could not grip and hold fast a corpuscle under such conditions .
The power of a particle to get negatively electrified may thus be taken as an indication of the strength of the electric field round it , if the electric field is small , .
if the chemical affinities of the particle are saturated , it will not be able to pick up a corpuscle and become negatively electrified , yhile it may be able to do so if it is unsaturated and the electric field around it intense .
Now I have not yet found a case where a molecule of a compound acquires a negative , and only two cases , which will be considered later on , where a molecule of an elementary gas does so .
Again , there are some elements whose atoms , when in the positive rays , never acquire a negative charge , such as nitrogen , heJium , neon , argon , crypton , and mercury vapour , while negative charges are found on the atoms of , carbon , oxygen , sulphur , chlorine .
In oxygen the parabolas due to the atively charged atoms are exceptionally strong ; an example of this is shown in the photograph reproduced in , which was taken when the gas in the discharge tube was very pure oxygen .
Another photograph , showing the lines due to negatively electrified oxygen and carbon atoms , is reproduced in The two cases where I have found a molecule of an element to be atively c are oxygen and carbon .
The electrified molecule of oxygen does sometimes occur , although it is by no means common ; the conditions for appearance have not beeu worked out with certainty , it is probably connected with the presence in the discharge tube of some oxygen compounds of a special type ; the negatively charged oxygen atom , on the other hand , occurs in nearly every case when oxygen is present in the tube .
It is not perhaps inconsistent with the chemical properties of oxygen to suppose that in some compounds we may have two oxygen atoms united ether so as to for a system with a good deal of residual affinity , hydrogen peroxide is perhaps an example of this .
Rays of Positire Electricity .
The conditions which regulate the appearance of the atively charged carbon molecule have been worked oub and are very interesting .
The ative molecule does not occur in compounds like marsh-gas , carbon dioxide , carbon monoxide , phosgene , and so on , where there is no linking between carbon atoms .
On the other hand , it does occur with compounds like acetylene , ethylene , ethane , where there are two carbon atoms linked together by one or more bonds .
This is interesting from the chemical point of view because it shows that in such compounds two carbon atoms are held so firmly together that they remain united when the molecule is broken up by the rough treatment it in the discharge tube ; and secondly , that the system consisting of the two carbon atoms is a highly unsaturated one , as there is an electric field round it strong enough to catch and hold a corpuscle moving past it at a speed .
In benzene vapour we get negatively electrified triplets of carbon atoms , and I have etiules thought that I could detect the ative quartet .
The Use of Positive as Iethod of Chemical alysis .
Since each parabola on the photograph indicates the presence in the ( tube of particles ) aving a known of , and as by the methods described above we can determine what multiple is of the unit charge , we can , by measuring the parabolas , determine the masses of all the particles in tube , and thus identify the contents of the tube as far as this be done by a knowledge of the atomic and molectl ] veights of all its constituents .
The raph of the positive rays thus gives a of the atomic and molecular weights of the elements and compounds in the tube .
This method has several advantages in comparison with that of spectrum analysis , especially for the detection of new substances ; for , with method , when we find a new line we know at once the atomic or molecular of the particle which produced it .
Spectrum analysis would be much easier and more efficient if from the wave-length of a line in the spectrum we could deduce the atomic weight of the element which produced it , and this virtually is what we can do with the positive-ray method .
Again , in a mixture the presence of one gas is apt to swamp the spectrum of another , necessitating , in many cases , considerable purification of the gas before it can be analysed by the spectroscope .
This not the case to anything like the same extent with the positive rays ; with these the presence of other gases is a matter of comparatively little importance .
With regard to the sensitiveness of the positive ray ethod , I have made , as yet , no attempt to design tubes which would give the maximum sensitiveness , but with the tubes actually in use there is no difficulty in the Sir J. J. Thomson .
helium contained in a cubic centimetre of air , even though it is mixed with other gases , and I have not the slightest doubt a very much greater degree of sensitiveness could be obtained without much difficulty .
I will illustrate the use of the method by some applications .
The first of these is to the detection of rare gases in the atmosphere .
Sir James Dewar kindly supplied me with some gases obtained from the residues of liquid air ; the first sample had been treated so as to contain the heavier constituents .
The positive-ray photograph reproduced in fig. 17 gave the lines of xenon , crypton , argon , and a faint line due to neon ; there were no lines on the photo- raph umaccounted for , and so we may conclude that there are no heavy unknown gases in the atmosphere occurring in quantities comparable with that of xenon .
The second sample from Sir James Dewar contained the hter gases ; the photograph ( fig. 18 ) shows that , in addition to helium and neon , there is another gas with an atomic weight about 22 .
This gas has been found in every specimen of neon which has been examined , including a very carefully purified sample prepared by Mr. E. W. Watson and a specimen very kindly supplied by M. Claud , of the raph of this specimen , fig. 19 ( Plate 3 ) , is remarkable , as it shows , in addition to this line and the helium line , a line to a substance with atomic , whose properties are discussed later on .
The substance giving the line 22 also occurs with a double charge , giving aline for which .
There can , therefore , I think , be little doubt that what has been called neon is not a simple gas but a mixture of two gases , one of which has an atomic about 20 and the other about 22 .
The parabola due to the heavier gas is always much fainter than that due to the lighter , so that probably the heavier gas forms only a small percentage of the mixture .
Another application of the method was to the analysis of the gas in a small glass tube in which 30 mgrm .
of radium bromide had been sealed for more than 10 years .
The raph showed that , in addition to helium , the tube contained considerable quantities of neon , or some gas with about the same atomic weight , some gas of the atomic weight 3 mentioned before , and also a trace of argon , a little more than I should have expected from the volume of air in the tube , although the difference was not very great .
The photograph is shown in fig. 20 .
The last application of the method I shall bring before you is to the investigation of the gas for which .
The most convenient way of producing this gas is by bombarding solids by cathode rays .
The arrangement used for this purpose is shown in fig. 21 .
A is a vessel communicating by a tube with the bulb , in which the positive rays are produced ; a tap is placed in the tube , so that the communication between the vessels can be cut Rays of Positive off if desired .
A is provided with a curved cathode , like those used for Rontgen-ray focus tubes , and the catbode rays focus on the platform on which the substance to be bombarded is placed .
After the solid to be examined } ) been placed on the platform , the tap between A and is turned so as to cut off the connection between them , A is exhausted until the pressure is low enough for the cathode rays to be produced , the electric discharge is sent through , and the cathode rays bombard tloe solid ; the result of this is that in a very short time so much gas , mainly and , is driven out of the solid that the pressure , too high for the cathode rays to be formed ; to reduce the pressure a tube containing charcoal cooled ) .
liquid air is connected with , and the gases given off at the commencement of the bombardment are absorbed by the charcoal ; after the first rush of has come off , the charcoal is cut off from A by the tap .
To analyse the gases ( riveno off from the solid , a photograph is taken before the connection between A and has been opened ; after this is finished and when the bombardment has been for some hours , the tap is turned and a little of the gas from A is allowed to go into : another is taken , and the lines in the secondphotograph which are not in the first represent the ases which have been liberated by the bombardment .
The solids tested include platinum , lead ( both old and some chemically pure , procured from Kahlbaum ) , gold , silver , copper , iron , nickel , nickel oxide , zinc , aluminium , magnesium , uranium , palladium , graphite , calcium carbide , diamond.dust , mica , lithium chloride , potash , potassium iodide , potassium chloride , fluorspar , specimens of meteorites , mouazite sand , volcanic dust .
In every case , Sir J. J. Thomson .
except the two last , a whose atomic is 3 was found to have been liberated by the bombardment with cathode rays ; in some cases the parabola corresponding to it was very well marked , as in the photograph reproduced in fig. 22 , which is taken with the gas driven out of platinum ( the line is the third from the top ) ; of the substances tried , the line corresponding to the gas with atomic weight 3 , which I shall denote henceforth by , was with platinum , lithium chloride , and potash .
The gas continues to come off , even though the bombardment is for some hours , but in all the cases I have tried it ceases if the bombardment is for the working hours of several days , and the metal arrives at a state when it can be bombarded without liberating the .
The metalbefore bombardment can be heated to a high temperature without producing much diminution in the supply of this gas given off under the cathode rays , but by heating copper auze , made of very fine wire , in a vacuum in a quartz tube to a red heat for about 40 hours reduced to a state when it no off under bombardment .
Helium and in some cases neon or a approximately the same atomic weight are given off along with the when solids are bombarded by cathode rays .
Almost every substance I have bombarded gives off sufficient helium to be detected by this method .
After long bombardment , however , the supply of helium gives out , generally long before the is exhausted .
This is hardly to be wondered at , for in most cases the amount of is much greater than that of helium .
In minerals like thorianite , monazite , the two meteorites I examined , and a specimen of volcanic dust , the helium is in excess , in monazite and thorianite the is but a small fraction of the helium .
method is a very convenient one for analysing the gases in minerals .
I may say in passing that helium in small quantities is by no means an infrequent impurity in gases .
I have detected it as well as in some oxygen obtained from a cylinder .
I do not mean , however , to imply that all such oxygen contains helium .
With regard to the origin of the gases given out on bombardment , the fact that the emission of gas ceases after prolonged bombardment , and that thin copper wire by long continued heating can be brought to a state in which it ceases to emit the gas , favours the conclusion that in such cases the gas is originally present in the solid , or at any rate is not manufactured de novo by the action of the cathode rays alone .
The question arises , Are the gases merely absorbed by the solid in the same way that air is absorbed by water or are they constituents of atoms or molecules which are decomposed by the cathode rays ?
The gas is certainly held with surprising firmriess by the metal , the only case in which I have been able to get rid of it by heating is that of Rays of Electricity .
the fine copper wire heated to redness for a week .
I have heated lead in a vacuum until two-thirds of it were boiled away and yet the remainder still gave off some helium and when bombarded by the cathode rays .
I tested given out from the lead when heated and found traces of and also of helium ; the quantities obtained in this way were , however , very small compared with those produced by bombardment with cathode rays .
If the gases were absorbed in the solids we should expect to be able to eliminate them b the solid in water or acid and the solution to dryness ; in some cases , however , this treatment does not reduce the quantity of liberated by the cathode rays .
A conspicuous instance is lithium chloride : a sample of this when bombarded gave off and helium , it was then dissolved in water and the solution evaporated to dryness , the freshly deposited lithium chloride gave off and helium as freely as it did before solution , indeed the helium line seemed to be stronger than before .
This process was repeated nine times without leading to any diminution in the gases given out .
Similar results are obtained when the is dissolved in alcohol instead of water and when KHO is substituted for .
It would seem very improbable that any gas merely absorbed or imprisoned by the solid would have been able to withstand this treatment , which , would not have eliminated any soluble compound of these gases .
This persistence after solution suggests that the is in a state of chemical combination and is not merely absorbed in the usual meaning of the term .
We shall see that the gas has some power of entering into chemical combination so that the existence of it as a compound is not impossible .
The lithium chloride , howeyer , ives off helium after solution , as well as , so that , assuming that the solution and subsequent heating would eliminate any helium in the free state , the helium must either be generated from ) the bombardment of cathode rays , or else it must exist in some compound sufficiently stable to admit of dissolved without decomposition .
In some cases , though not as we have seen in all , solution has the effect of the metal into a state in which it does not boive off either or helium when bombarded .
Thus I could get no gas from lead freshly deposited as a " " lead tree\ldquo ; ; again , iron which off gas when bombarded ceased to do so when dissolved and re-precipitated .
Again , platinum dissolved up in acid and con verted into spongy platinum five times in succession , though it did not altogether cease to give off gas under bombardment , did not emit like so much as it did before bombardment .
The differences in the effects produced by the solution of the metal .
in different cases would be readily intelligible if these gases formed compounds of different qualities with the different metals .
Sir J. J. Thomson .
Though the largest quantities of are obtained by bombardment with cathode rays , this is by no means the only source of the gas .
It and are obtained when the discharge from a Wehnelt cathode passes through an exhausted tube .
Indeed I had observed the line corresponding to it on several occasions on the photographic plate long before I tried bombarding the solids ; its appearance was , however , very sporadic and although I tested a great variety of gases I was never able to get it at will until after a tedious search I hit upon the method of bombarding solids .
I will now pass on to describe the experiments I have made to test the nature of the substance The most obvious suggestion is that it is a carbon atom with four charges of electricity .
This , however , is not tenable , for the following reasons .
The first are based on physical principles .
We have seen that a multiply charged atom involves a prolongat , ion of the line due to the singly charged one ; in the case of an atom with four charges the primary line would be prolonged until it reached up to one-quarter of the normal distance from the vertical .
Now I have never observed .
a prolongation of the line due to the carbon atom beyond the half distance , this corresponds to a doubly charged atom , and the line for this atom is frequently found on the plate , though always fainter than the primary line .
Again , on many of the plates where the line is strongest there is no ation of the line due to the carbon atom at all , and no line corresponding to the doubly charged atom .
In some cases , indeed , the line is than the imary carbon line , and in all cases when the gas is enerated by bombardment ( than the doubly carbon line .
This is the argun ) from the physical side ; there is , however , another argument based on consideration of a chemical character .
The gas can be stored and tested weeks after the bombardment has taken place .
If then the line is due to the carbon atom with four charges it must be that some carbon compound is produced by the bombardment which , when introduced into the discharge tube , gives a plentiful supply of carbon atoms with four chal'ges .
Now I have put directly into the tube all the gaseous carbon compounds I could get , including marsh-gas , carbon dioxide , carbon monoxide , rbon tetrachloride , phosgene gas , carbon bisulphide , cyanogen , acetylenc , ethylene , ethane , the vapours of a number of alcohols and , benzene , coal gas , without getting a trace of the line .
can resist treatment with hot copper oxide and potash , which would remove the carbon compounds .
For these reasons we may , I think , put aside the idea that is due to carbon .
If does not contain a new element and is not carbon with four charges Rays of Positive Electricity .
it must be triatomic hydrogen .
From the physical side there is considerable evidence in favour of this view ; for example , whenever is freely produced by bombardment , it is always accompanied by large quantities of hydrogen : we may , however , have large quantities of hydrogen without .
The chemical properties of , however , in no way , so that if it is manufactured from that gas its relations to hydrogen must be very different from those of ozone to oxygen .
The properties of brought to light by these experiments are as follows:\mdash ; It can be kept over mercury for several weeks , although it is diminished in amount at the end of that time .
It can be heated in a quartz tube for several hours without any appreciable chan the quartz is at a red heat .
It can be sparked with oxygen and also with phosphorus without being .
destroyed .
It is not affected when passed over cold metallic sodium , and when heated with sodium vapour it does not combine with it .
It can withstand the action of red-hot copper oxide and potash .
This experiment was tried seven times , in two cases there was an appreciable diminution in the quantity of , in the others there was no effect .
The exceptional cases , I am inclined to think , were due to some of the copper being reduced , as hot copper combines , to some extent , with .
Fig. 23 ( 3 ) is from a raph when the gas had passed over hot copper oxide ; 23 ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) of the same which had not been treated .
23 ( 1 ) is the check taken before the gas was admitted ; it does not show the 3 ' line or the helium , which would come just under the strong line the top , which is due to the hydrogen molecule .
It can stand over potash for several days without being absorbed These properties point to its being a very inert substance , and are not those we should expect an allotropic form of hydrogen to possess .
I have found , however , two cases where it enters into chemical.combination\mdash ; ( 1 ) It combines with mercury vapour when an electric discharge is sent through the mixture .
( 2 ) It combines , to some extent , with red-hot copper .
This is illustrated the photograph reproduced in fig. 24 ; ( 1 ) is the check before the , ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) that of gas not passed over copper ; ( 3 ) that of the gas after passing the copper , in this the 3 ' line is fainter than in ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) .
These properties point to the conclusion that if is an element it has considerable resemblance to the inert gases helium and argon , although its chemical properties are slightly more energetic .
The absence of parabolas corresponding to and shows that if it is an element it VOL. LXXXIX.\mdash ; A. Sir J. J. Thomson .
is monatomic .
Mendeleeff predicted the existence of an element of atomic weight 3 , and attributed to it properties similar to those of fluorine , but of greater intensity .
The chemical properties of are much too lethargic to be consistent with the view that it is a kind of super-fluorine .
If is elated to such an element , that element must have an atomic weight 2 and not 3 , and must be a stable compound of it with .
If this were the case , since the line corresponding to the element would coincide with that due to the hydrogen molecule , which is always on the plate , it would be difficult to get , by the study of the lines due to the positively charged particles , evidence as to its existence .
We should expect , however , that a substance possessing the energetic chemical properties of Mendele'effs element would be able to attract a negative charge , and that there would be on the negative side of the photographs a line for which .
I have not , however , as yet been able to detect the existence of such a line .
Again , with but three exceptions , , all the atomic less than 40 are of the form 4 or 4 ; if the atomic weight of were 2 it would be another exception to this law .
I have much pleasure in thanking Mr. F. W. Aston , B.A. , of Trinity College , and Mr. E. Everett , for the invaluable assistance they have given me with these experiments .
[ Note added , 1913.\mdash ; In the experiments described in the lecture the evolution of and helium from metals under bombardment by cathode rays was in most cases much smaller when the metals had been freshly deposited , and the solution evaporated to dryness , than it was with metals which had not been so treated .
The supply of helium , too , soon gave out under bombardment , indicating that the helium had been absorbed by the metal and was liberated by the bombardment .
There was one case , however , that of , in which solution produced no diminution in the amount of helium given out .
This result led me to examine within the last few days the effect of bombarding by cathode rays the salts of the alkali metals and of the alkaline earths ; these experiments have convinced me that when the salts of Li , Na , or Bb are bombarded by cathode rays there is a genuine production , as distinct from liberation of absorbed gas , of helium and potassium giving the largest supply .
The amount of helium obtained from these elements was much larger than that from any of the substances I have tried other than minerals such as monazite sand , thorianite , volcanic ash , or meteorites , which are known to contain free belium .
On the other hand , the salts of calcium , ammonium , and silver , have shown no special power of Rays of Positive Electricity .
out ] ; the very small amount obtained not more than could be accounted for by absolbed gas , they produce , however , quite freely .
The of using the salts instead of the metals themselyes is that , by solution in water or alcohol and snbsequent evaporation to dryness , they can be freed from absorbed helium and .
The salts examined were LiOH , ( this was a portion of a cylinder ) , and .
The lithium , sodium , potassium , and rubidium salts showed the helium line strongly , especially the potassium salts ; indeed , except with minerals which are known to contain helium , I have neyer seen the helium line so strong as it was when KI was bombarded .
The of the He line was not diminished by repeated solution and on the contrary , it was increased sometimes to a considerable extent .
I think this increase may be a secondary effect , due to the elimination from the salt of the ordinary absorbed yases , such as H2 and .
The result of this is that a naller amount comes off when the salt is bombarded , the in the bombardment chamber is lower , and the cathode rays are faster and more energetic .
The helium did not come from the electrodes , for when or was bombarded with the same electrodes , at the same pressure and for the same time , little or no helitun was produced .
As an additional precautiun , the cathode was scraped time to time .
All the nples of the salts I have tried giye the same esults .
This makes it that the effects are due to the presence of some helium-containing mineral like mollazite sand .
I have dissolved some of the salts in alcohol , and filtered the solution , without the supply of helium ; thus any helium-containing impurity must be soluble in alcohol .
On the plate on which the helium line was \mdash ; the ] was could see a very faint line to an atomic weight 35 or thereabouts .
I should have this was due to a trace of chloride .
the potassium iodide , except for the fact that when was substituted for this line was not thened .
I have not yet been able to get this line strong to measure it with sufficient to decide whether the article p it has an atomic weight exactly equal to the difference of the atomic of potassium and helium .
The tion of helium in exceptionally large amounts from the alkaline metals is interesting , since potassium , as Mr. Campbell has shown , is radioactive .
I am disposed to the emission of helium from these metals as supporting the speculation I gave in a letter to 'Nature , ' Feb. 13 , 1913 , that other elements besides radium , thorium , and the like , make to expel -particles ( atoms of ) .
In ordinary elements these particles have not enough energy to get away from the atom ; they are , however , as Rays of Positive Electricity .
it were , loosened , and can be detached by vigorous bombardment with cathode rays .
I now pass on to consider the effect of solution and subsequent evaporation on the evolution of , which all the salts , including the calcium , ammonium , and silver ones , gave off in abundance .
Solution and evaporation produced a marked diminution in the output of from .
It had little effect , however , on the output from LiUH , .
It will be noticed that these latter salts are very deliquescent , while those which are cted by solution are not .
l'his suggests that the diminution in , when it occurs , may be due to water being driven off when the salts are strongly heated after evaporation , the deliquescent salts recovering the water before bombardment , whilst the others do not .
The will come out of the salt with cathode rays which are not fast enough to liberate helium .
These results show , I think , that the liberated from the dissolved salts was not simply absorbed by them , but was either manufactured from hydrogen in the presence of water , or liberated from j atoms of one or more of the elements in the salt , and that the presence of water is an important , it may be an essential , condition for its production by atomic disruption .
If we suppose is made from hydrogen the function of the salt may be merely to supply the necessary water in a convenient form .
is produced when the discharge from a Wehnelt cathode passes through gas at a low pressure , though in this case the bombardment of the walls of the tube by cathode rays is feeble ; this and its sporadic appearance in tubes would be accounted for if it were produced from water vapour .
] [ Note added , 1913 .
find that disappears when a mixture of it with hydrogen is sparked with sufficient to give a violent explosion .
] FIG. FIG. 10 .
FIG. .
FIG. 7 .
Pro FIG. 12 .
FIG. 17 .
FIG. 16 .

