879.1 Prof. B. Stewart .
Inequalities of Declination .
241 YI .
During twenty-two hours , evaporation was reduced from 2*123 *rms .
to *668 grm. , or 68*5 per cent. VII .
During twenty-four hours , the reduction was from 2*460 jrmg .
to *180 grm. , or 92*7 per cent. VIII .
In a period of seventy-two hours , the reduction was from 7*638 grms. to *917 grm. , or 88 per cent. IX .
In seventy hours , the evaporation was diminished from 7*732 jrms .
to 2*586 grms. , or 66*6 per cent. X. In forty-six hours , the diminution was from 4*973 grms. to L*647 grms. , or 66*9 per cent. Experiments were also made with single drops of water suspended in loops of fine platinum wire , and placed in the hell-jar filled with dry air ; hut it was found that the oily film had a strong tendency to leave the drop and run up the platinum wire .
In a comparative experiment , in which one of the drops was protected by a coal-smoke film , the unprotected drop lost 90 per cent , of its weight in two and a half hours at 16'*6 C. ; whilst the protected drop lost only 37*8 percent , at 17'*8 C. in the same time .
Another drop , protected by a film of coal-tar , lost 37*6 per cent , of its weight in two and a half hours , the temperature being 14 ' C. in the bell-jar .
It is highly probable that if globules of water without any solid support ( like those in cloud and fog ) could have been operated upon , the retardation of evaporation would have been still more marked , or perhaps altogether arrested ; for in all the above experiments the oily films manifested a tendency to break up and attach themselves to the solid support of the water , leaving the surface of the latter partially unprotected .
The results of these experiments point out a condition of very common occurrence , competent to produce " dry fog , " whilst they also explain the frequency , persistency , and irritating character of those fogs which afflict our large towns ; inasmuch as some of the products of destructive distillation of coal are very irritating to the respiratory organs , and a large proportion of them is scarcely if at all volatile at ordinary temperatures .
My thanks are due to my pupil , Mr. C. Gr .
Matthews , for his assistance in the foregoing quantitative determinations .
IV .
" Note on the Inequalities of the Diurnal Range of the Declination Magnet as recorded at the Kew Observatory .
" By Balfour Stewart , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in Owens College , Manchester , and William Dodg-SON , Esq. Received November 18 , 1878 .
We are at present engaged in searching for the natural inequalities Sir J. Conroy on [ Jan. 9 of the above range , more especially for any of which the period is between 24 and 25 days .
We find strong evidence of an inequality o considerable magnitude of which the period is 24-00 days , very nearly We have also found preliminary evidence of the existence of twc considerable inequalites of periods not very far from 24-65 and 24-80 days .
These two appear to come together in about 11 years , but we cannot yet give the exact time of this .
We have not found a trace of any inequality with a period of 24"25 days .
V. " Some Experiments on Metallic Reflexion/ ' By Sir John Conroy , Bart. , M.A. Communicated by Professor G. G , Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received November 18 , 1878 .
In the experiments made by Sir David Brewster , M. Jamin , Professor Haughton , and others , on the light reflected by polished metallic surfaces , the reflecting surfaces were in contact with air ; and , as far as I am aware , the only observations which have been made when the reflecting surfaces were in contact with other media are those by Quincke , an account of which is given in " Poggendorff 's Annalen , " vol. cxxviii , p. 541 , and in the " Jubelband , " p.'336 , He found that he obtained different values for the principal incidence and principal azimuth , according as the reflecting surface of a film of silver was in contact with air , crown glass , flint glass , water , or turpentine , and that the only connexion between the values of these angles and the refractive index of the medium in which the reflexion took place was , that in general with the same metal , the principal incidence and the principal azimuth became less as the refractive index of the medium increased .
I therefore hope that a short account of some attempts that I have recently made to determine the principal incidence for , and the principal azimuth of , the light reflected by polished surfaces of gold and copper in contact with different media , may be of interest .
The experiments are , I regret to say , incomplete , as , finding that my eyes were beginning to suffer , I thought it best , for the present at least , to discontinue them .
I used a Babinet 's goniometer , to the arms of which two tubes containing nicols were attached , a vertical divided circle being fixed at one end of each , so that the position of the nicols could be read by a vernier to 5 ' .
The goniometer had , in addition to the horizontal stage , a vertical one , so arranged that the reflecting surface could be placed in the axis of the instrument ; toothed wheels , working into a pinion rotating on an axis fixed in one of the arms of the divided circle , were attached to the vertical stage , the position of which could

