272 Dr. J. Berry Haycraft .
Sp. C. = Spinal cord .
iii.l.'i IV .
L. V.L. = 3rd to 7tli lumbar nerve roots .
VI .
L. I VII .
L.J 1ST II S I = ^ an\lt ; ^ s^cl\lt ; a^ nerve roots .
E.C. = External cutaneous nerve .
A.C. = Anterior crural nerve .
Obt .
= Obturator nerve .
Sc. = Sciatic nerve .
x = Branch from 5th to 6th lumbar nerve root .
*'A New Hypothesis concerning Vision .
" By John Berry Haycraft , M.D. , D.Sc .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F ; R.S. Received February 16 , \#151 ; Read March 2 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) It is suggested that many of the well-known facts of vision can he more easily understood when studied from the evolutionary standpoint .
The eye is no exception to the general rule , accepted by evolutionists , that all parts of the body are gradually evolved under the environmental conditions of the species .
Many species are devoid of a colour sense , but are able , nevertheless , to distinguish light from darkness , and where a colour sense is present it has been developed in relationship with environmental pigments : these points have been brought out with especial clearness by Darwin and Lubbock .
We may infer , therefore , that the visual apparatus of a colour-seeing species\#151 ; man , for instance\#151 ; was at one time only able to distinguish light from darkness , and that the colours red , yellow , green , \amp ; c. , were once seen as grey .
This enables us to understand why it is that the outer , less used , parts of the retina are at the present day colour blind ; this fact fits in at once with our evolutionary hypothesis .
From the same point of view we may explain why a minimal stimulus from a red , green , or other coloured object gives rise merely to the sensation grey\#151 ; " bei Nacht sind alle Katzen grau " \#151 ; even when it falls upon the centre of the retina .
In this case the minimal stimulus is unable to excite more than the simple sensation of light , and the quality of this light is not seen .
A parallel may in fact be drawn between sight and hearing and smell , for we may hear a sound too feebly to assign to it its pitch , and we may have to sniff a faint odour in order to make out exactly what it is .
But a red , yellow , or green object , very brightly illuminated , also appears white , and this has been explained in various ingenious ways .
It is suggested , however , that this is merely a special case of A New Hypothesis concerning Vision .
273 the law of maximal stimulation , which states that when a stimulus is increased beyond a certain amount it is not followed by any increased sensory effect .
If you illuminate , say , a piece of red paper with an intensely brilliant light , it appears white , for the red pigment is unable to absorb all the blue and green spectral rays , which it would be able to do by a medium illumination , and enough of these green and blue rays are reflected to produce a maximum effect , and the red and yellow rays , though no doubt falling in greater quantity on the retina , produce likewise their full sensory effect and no more .
As the eye has been evolved by the action of the common pigments of nature , their examination throws light upon some of the facts of vision , and the sensory results of stimuli composed of certain mixtures of spectral rays may be explained from the evolutionary standpoint .
If spectral rays near to each other , such as red and green , be mixed , their colour is that of the spectral ray which lies between them , in this case yellow .
Now , when common natural pigments are observed spectroscopically , they are seen to transmit broad bands of spectral rays , generally extending to parts of the spectrum other than that part which corresponds in colour to that of the pigment .
Thus a yellow natural pigment transmits a full flood of red , yellow , and green spectral rays .
If we put it another way , the sensation yellow has in the course of evolution been produced by pigments which stimulate the eye by yellow spectral ray plus red and green spectral rays .
These red and green spectral rays given out by natural pigments do not give rise to their respective sensations when mixed , for there is no such thing as a red-green sensation ; but they intensify the yellow sensation which would be produced to a less extent by the intermediate yellow ray when acting alone .
It is a fact , beyond which we cannot go , that the combination red plus green spectral ray stimulating the eye whenever we regard a yellow pigment produces the sensation we call yellow ; an artificial mixture of such spectral rays of course gives rise to the same sensation .
Similar explanations hold for the mixtures of green and violet , \amp ; c. It is a fact that a sensation of white or grey is produced ( a ) when the eye is stimulated by all the spectral rays , ( 6 ) when it is stimulated , as shown by Helmholtz , by certain pairs , e.g. , red and blue-green .
It is suggested that the colour top of Maxwell has , as a physiological experiment , been misinterpreted .
When you mix on the disc a blue and yellow and get grey , the blue paper transmits to the eye one-half of the spectrum , viz. , violet , blue , and some green , and the yellow paper transmits the other half , viz. , some green , yellow , and red .
You are therefore looking at what is physically the same stimulus as that given by a piece of white paper seen in half light .
That the sensation grey occurs is not to be wondered at , for 274 Messrs. \#187 ; J. H. Cooke and .
A. S. Woodward .
the same stimuli give rise to the same sensation .
That certain pairs of spectral rays , red and blue-green , for instance , produce grey or white is quite another fact , and may possibly be explained in the following way .
All the pairs of spectral rays which together make grey or white are far apart from each other in the spectrum , and are not present in rays given out by any saturated pigment .
Thus red and green rays stimulate the retina when any yellow object is observed , a pigment which gives oat , in addition , the blue-green rays , is of a pale whitish-yellow .
Thus , while pigments which give out red and green rays appear more yellow , those which give out red and blue-green rays appear less so and approach the primitive achromatic sensation .
Without knowledge of the changes which actually take place when light falls upon the retina , and before therefore the subject is really opened up , scientific observers have brought forward complete theories of vision .
Both in the theory of Young and in that of Hearing the visual organ is " conceived " by them , and in the absence of facts these theories can only be looked upon as tentative .
In this paper an attempt has been made to arrange new facts by the side of old ones , in order that they may be understood the better .
Beyond the point at which it is possible to explain a subject in terms of what we already know in physics and physiology , no progress has been attempted .
Such attempts have in other departments of physiology proved too often unsuccessful to encourage effort in a subject the threshold of which every physiologist will agree that we are only about to enter .
" The Har Dalam Cavern , Malta , and its Fossiliferous Contents .
" By John H. Cooke , F.G.S. With a Report on the Organic Remains , by Arthur Smith Woodward , F.L.S. , F.G.S. , F.Z.S. Communicated by Henry Woodward , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Y.P.G.S. Received February 2 , \#151 ; Read February 23 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) The Har Dalam cave is situated in the eastern part of the island of Malta , near Marsa Scirocco Bay .
The headlands around the bay are composed of Lower Coralline Limestone , capped by Globigerina Limestone .
Numerous valleys intersect the land at right angles to the coast line , forming small creeks and bays at their embouchure .
The Har Dalam gorge , in which the cavern is situated , is a valley of erosion which carries off the drainage of the land above , and was no doubt excavated at a time when the rainfall of Malta was much greater than at present .
This is indicated by the heaps of rounded

