]\gt ; March 2 , 189 Sir JOHN VANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , .D .
, Vice-President and surer , in the Ch A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Camdidates for election into the Society wers announced , as follows:\mdash ; Bateman , Sir Frederic , M.D. Bateson , William , M.A. Beevor , Charles Edward , M.D. Boulenger , George Albert .
Bourne , Professor Alfred Gibbs , D. Sc. Bradford , John Rose , M.D. Brennand , William .
Burnside , ProfessorWilliam .
M.A. zard , Thomas , M.D. Callaway , Charles , D. Sc. Callendar , Hugh Longbourne .
Carter , ) Brudenell , F.R.C.S. Chcyne , William Watson , F.R.C.S. Clarke , Sir George Sydenham , Iajor R. Hi .
Clowes , Professor Frank , D. Sc. Darwin , Leonard , Major R.E. Davis , James ] , F.G.S. Dreschfeld , Professor Jnlius , M.D. Duustan , Professor Wyndham R. , Edgewortb , Professor Francis Ysidro , rancis , LL. D. ot , John , M.A. , William , F.R.A.S. theridgc , Robert , F.G.S. , Professor J. Cossar , M.D. , Professor William Tenant , M.D. VOL. LIU .
Harcoul.t , Professol Leveson Francis Vernon , M.Inst .
C.E. Harker , Alfred , M.A. Hendley , Thomas bein , geon-Major .
Hickson , Sydney John , II .
A. Hill , M. J. M. , M.A. Hind , George Jenmings , Ph. D. Hobson , Ernest William , D. Sc. Howes , Professor Geerge F.L.S. Howortb , Sir Henry K.C.I. Jones , Professor John ianlU , M.A. King , George .
Knobel , Edward Ball , Lockwood , Charles ) rrctt , F.R. C.S. Love , Augustus M.A. Lydekker , Richard , B.A. Macewen , Professor William , M. D. McConnell , James Parry , Majo F.R. C. P. lfacM , Charles , .
D. Manscrgh , James , M.Inst .
] Martin , John Biddulph , M.A. Martin , Sidney , M.D. Matthey , Edward , F. C. S. 66 Lieut.-General R. Strachey .
Harmonic Analysis [ Mar. 2 , Mott , Frederick Walke ] , Newton , Edwin ] , F.G.S. Notter , James Lane , SurgeonLieut.-Col .
Oliver , John Ryder , MajorGeneral R.A. Ord , William Miller , M.D. Read , Thomas Mellard , F.G.S. Roberts , Ralph A. , M.A. Rutley , Frank , F.G.S. Salomons , Sir David , M.A. Sherrington , Charles Scott , M.B. Stebbing , Rev , Thomas Roscoe Rede , M.A. Stevenson , Thomas , M.D. Stewart , Professor Charles , M.R.C.S. Stirling , Edward C. , M.D. Thomson , ofessor John Iiliar , F.C.S. Thornycroft , John Isaac , M.fnst .
C.E. Trail , Professor James William Helenus , M.D. Tuke , Daniel Hack , M.D. Ulrich , Professor George Henr ) Frederick , F.G.S. Veley , Victor Hubert , M.A. Wallace , Alfred Russel , .D .
Waterhouse , James , Colonel .
Watkin , Henry Spiller , Lieut.-Col. R.A. Webb , rancis William , M.Inst .
C.E. Woodward , Horace Bolingbroke , F.G.S. Worthington , Professor Arthur Mason , M.A. Young , Profcssor Sydney , D.Sc .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; 1 .
" " Harmonic Analysis of Hourly Observations of Air Temperature and Pressure at British Obseryatories .
Part I. Temperature By Lieut.-General R. STRACHEY , 1i.E .
, F.B.S. Received January 20 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is a discussion of the resuIts of the computations of the harmonic constants contained in a volume recelltly published the Office .
The tables in this volume give the constants of the harmonic components of the first .
orders , for each month for twenty years , of the daiIy curves of temperature and pressure at eenwich ; and the constants for the first three orders , for the temperature and pressure , for each month for twelve years , at the scven observatories ined by the Meteorological Office .
The tables supply the values of the coefficients of the cosines and sines of the several terms of the usual harmonic series , representing any hourly value:\mdash ; . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) .
They also give the amplitudes of tlJe several components , and the epoch of maximum derived the formula 1893 .
] of of Air and Pressure .
\amp ; c. . .
( A ) .
In these tables , and the discussion , the coefficients of the cosines of the for the several components are designated by the letter , and those of the sines by the letter .
The amplitude for the several components is designated by , and the epoch of the first maximum that occurs after midnight is designated by the By the introduction of the epoch of maximum , the conne , xion of the component with hour of the day and the sun 's place is ectly indicated , which .
the pose of these discussions is more convenient than the method usually adopted , of the value of the angle in formula ( 2 ) .
Reference is made to difficulties and } , ainties that occasionalIy in computing the mean values of some 0 these constants .
Where there are periodical varialions of value which lead to changes of sign , the arithmebical meam will tend to obliterate variations which may , in truth , be strongly marked .
Also difficulty at times arises in respect to the epoch of maximum , from uncertainty , in dealing both with casual ularities , and periodical anges , in saying whether the epoch has been thrown forward or backward .
The absolute magnitudes of the coefficients and indicate the amplitude of the component , and their signs the phase , or the epoch of maximum .
It will readily be seen that the combinations of coefficients , ; , correspond respectively to epochs of maximum in the first , second , third , and fourth , of the period of the component ; and the mutual destruction of a series of positive and nPgative values of and in a mean valuo will therefore only signify that there is no trne mean epoch of maximum , and that all positions are alike prol ) able or uncertain .
The foregoing remarks apply to the whole series of compulations ; what follows refers only to the temperatnre tables , to which the present communication is limited .
1 .
eenwich Temperature .
The examination the tables shows that , with very oonsiderable variations of absolute magnitude , there is on the whole very marked onsistency in the main characteristics of the aking as a test the position of the epoch of iximum , which may be as more directly dependent on the suu'sac.tion , and on ition , it will be seen that the values of indicate very clearly ness of this connexion .
In all components a truly periodical variation of the value of is apparent , and the period of maximum always travels backwards , that is , it becomes earlier as the yeal .
passes from winter to summer , 6@ Lieut.-General R. Strachey .
Harmonic Analysis [ Mar. while it returns in the direction in the change back to winter .
For the first component the variation of the five years ' mean of from the twenty years is in no month than or ten minutes of time , and the average for all months is less than half that amount .
In the second component the epoch of maximum , which during the winter months is always after , falls back in the summer , when it is at times before at hour .
The variation of the five-year mean from the twenty-year mean is in no month more than , and the average is only , or nine minutcs of time .
In the winter months the maximum of the third compollent is always between 4 .
and 5 .
; in March it clJanges rapidly , in the summer being found invariably between and 1 , while after mber it to its position .
The variation of the five-year from the twentyyear mean in no month exceeds , and the average in all months is only , or minutes of time .
The fourth component shows double maxima and minima , the former at the equinoxes , the latter at the solstices .
) I rgest variation of the five-year mean of any month from the twenty-year mean is , and the average for ail months.is , or seventeen minutes .
idering how small are the ) solute values of the coefficients and , on which the val[le of depends , the average being a little less than of a degree heit , it is rather a matter of surprise that the variations should bc so small than that they should reach heir actual amounts .
It may be noticed that the total amplitude of the components , a considerable xriation of its value is quite consistent with invariable or slightly varying values of , which depend on the ratio The component of the first ordel , which in the winter is more than double the nitude of any of the others , an ] in summer more than ten imes as great , gives dominant character to the daily curves of temperature .
In the series of twenty years variations in differenf , years of as much as 100 per cent. are to be found for almost every month , but for the most part even these irregularities disappcar in the mean of a series of five years , and the monthly ns for the twenty years are remarkably consistent .
The progression of the value of , in the course of the year , 's approximately the sine of the sun 's meridional altitude , and the empirical formula ( yives a close approximation to the values shown in the tables , if \ldquo ; of eight or ten days is allowed in reckoning the sun 's place .
1893 .
] of Observations of , Temperature and Pressure .
The second component has two clearly marked maxima about the time of the eqninoxes , and a principal ab midsummer .
The componcnt of the third order varies in a converse manner , .
two well-marked minima at the equinoxes , with a principal maximum at midsnmmer .
The component of the fourth order appears to combine the characters of the two previous ones , having about the time of the equinoxes , and a principal in the winter .
following empirical formulae give close approximations to the values of and : , , in which is the sun 's longitude .
The mean value of for the first component is , corresponding to 2 , the variation due to season being or 48 of time , by which the maximum is earlier in summer than in winter .
In the second order the first maximum in Junc is , or 1 Lhan in January .
In the third order the difference in the same direction is , or 4 .
of time .
In the order , there is some doubt as to the manner which the change of epoch of the summer and wintsl maxima is brought .
From March , when the first maximum occurs about after midnight , or 4 , there is a continued ressiou till Jnne , when the maximum is at ater , or 11 ] .
This is followed by a progression from June till October , when the maximum again occurs at about , or 4 In passing from October to November , a sudden takes place by which the maximum is established at about after midnight .
TIhere is a liko sudden change between January and ebruary in the opposite direction , which the maxiInum to after .
From the component in November and February very small , it is not improbable these sudden changes coincide with the component zero .
Remembering that the fourth componcnt includes four series of undulations , the most probable expl ltation of these changes is to be found in a change of the position of these undulations , during which , January and , the first recedes , its place is by the cond , which leads to sudden appettrance of a maxiabout , or 4 .
A similar betwcen October and in an opposite direction would introdncc the maximum at after midnight .
In the summer months ( May , June , and July ) the temperature curve duriug the day hours , from 8 .
to 8 P. , hardly differs from 70 Lieut.-General R. Strachey .
Harmonic Analysis [ Mar. 2 , curve of sines , the first component being more than ten times as large as any of the others , which therefore infl lence the temperature , relatively , very litble .
The relation of the epoch of the first maximum of the component of the third order to the time of sunrise is decidedly , the former occurring , on the average , about , or 48 .
after sunrise ; the mean deviation of the intervaI from amount being only or 28 periodical variation in the position of the maximum leads , during the winter months , to a positive maximum of this component bout 1 , which is combined wibh negative maxima four hours earlier and later , which correspond to the reduced empcrature in the mornings and aftsrnoons of the shortcr days .
In like manner , in the summer months , when this has a ative m about 1 , instead of a negative minimum , as in winter , there will be two maxima , one four hours earlier , the other four hours later , c.orresponding to the higher tempsrattlre in the mornings and afteroons of the longer It will be seen that these posibions of the midsummer and midwinter maximum phases corl'espond respecbively to days of 16 hours with nights of 8 hours , or days of 8 and 1Jights of 16 hours , and that at these seasons , when the variations of temperabure , due to these differences , are greatest , the amplitudes of this component are also the greatest .
At the equinoxes , with days and nights , the componsnt becomes a minimum ; and at this season the changc in the position of the maximum takes place as already noticed .
It might be supposed that an relalion between the fourth component and the occurrence of days of 18 , combined with nights of 6 hours , and vice , is likely to arise .
But the data are not forthcoming to test this .
the several components of the tempel.atnre curve cannot be regarded as indications of specific efficient causes , the examination of the graphical representations of the various curves presents points to which attention may usefully be chief of these are the following : \mdash ; In the summer months the time of mean temperature is nearly the first component becomes , the second and third components then balancing one another .
In the winter the time of morning mean tomperature is later in summel , and occurs when a positive the first component cqual to a negative value of the second .
The time of afternoon mean temperature hout the year is somewhat either before or after 7 , and almost exactly coincidcs with the time when the first and second components are equal , with opposite signs .
1893 .
] of Observations of Air emperature and Pressure .
71 In the summer the time of absolute minimum is between the ours of 3 .
and 6 , during which the whole of the components are ative .
Sunrise December is about an hour and a half before the time of mean temperature ; in June it is more than four hours earlier .
Sunset in December rather more than three hours before the time of mean temperabure ; June it is about half an hour after } time .
The rationale of some of the empirical rules for obtaining the mean daily temperature from a limited number of observations is supplied by erence to the haxmonic expressions for the hourly deviations of temperature from the mean value ; it borne mind that the relative magnitude of the fourth component is very small .
In the first place , it will be seen that by adding together the harmonic expressions for any two hours twelve hours apart , the whole of the odd disappear , and that the sum is twice the mean value , added to twice the sum of the even components of the selected hours , which are equal .
the components above the fourth order , if the selected hours such that the component of the second order is zero , which will be the case hours corresponding to or , then half the sum of the temperatures at the selected hours will be the true daily mean added the fourth component for the selected hour , which at Enolisho stations will never amount to , and on the average is less than At Greenwich the mean between the observations at .
or .
and the corresponding afternoon hours in January , will differ by less than from the true value , and similar results will be obtained for June by the mean of oservalons made at A .
or 9 A.ll .
and the corresponding hours in the afterDoon .
By taking the mean of observations at any four hours , at intervals of six hours , both the odd components and those of the second order will disappear , and the result will only differ from the mean by the amount of the fourth component for selected houls .
As this component disappears when or , the hours at Greenwich that will give the best result , 8 , 14 , and 20 , or 5 , 11 , 17 , and 23 .
So , if the mean of any three hours at equal intervals of eight honrf , be taken , the sums of the first , second , and fourth components will d , and the result will only differ from the true mean by the amount of the third- component for the salected hours , which in no case can be much as adopbing hours when or , the third component pears , and this result will be obtained at Greenwich by combining observations at 3 , 11 , and 19 or 7 , 15 , and 23 .
72 Lieut.-Gencral R. Strachey .
Harmonic Analysis [ Mar. 2 , 2 .
emperature at the Seven vatories .
The examination of the tables will .
show in their main charactel.istics the results closely resemble for Greenwich , and it will not be necessary to discnss them in any detail .
The amplitude of the component of the first order is , however , in all cases less than that observed at Greenwich , the lowest values being those for Valencia and Falmoubh , no doubt due to their position on the sea coast , for which stations the means for the years are and compared with at Greenwich .
The Kew values mosb resemble those at Grcenwich , but the mean maximum at Kew is more than less , and the mean for the year less .
The mean values of for the seven observatories lie between and , that for Greenwich being .
The means of the summer values about or less than the mean of the year , and of winter values as much above it , as in the case of Greenwich .
The amplitudes of the first components conform approximately , but not so closely as at Greenwich , with the sine of the sun 's meridian altitude , but with a flattening of the in the months , and a tendency at some of the stations to a maximum value in May .
The components of the second and third orders , beyond which the lalysis is not carried for these observatories .
conform in all importallt respects to those for Greenwich , bhe numerical of } latter being , owever , in all cases somewhat .
The epochs of maximum follow the same laws , with an divergence of the summer epoch from that of the winter at the more northern stations .
allowance for their smaller amplitude , the ical the mean values of the and componen t differ the from those obtained fo Creenwich .
In order to test , and in so1ue degree thro light on the and of the harmonic components of ture tb have been under discussion , and beal'ing in mind that } cannot be considered to represcnt separate effects of forces at the assumed periods of compollents , I have , at the suggestion of Profe , ssor G. ) , the } ponents that would produce a curve heating action such as that of the sun , only tion of the day , and commencing and at nset .
Such a proccdnre disregards all cooling offects , and only Is with the direct heating action , I have assumed be proportional to of his altitude .
Also with a view of obtain1893 .
] of Observations of Air perature a Fressure .
73 ing figures in some degl.ee comparable with those derived actual observation , I have assumed ( following the emplrlcal formula beforc ) the power of a vertical sun to be 10 .
Having calculated the sun 's altitude for each hour of the day , for , the equillOX , and midsummer , for certain selected latitudes , the corrosponding effects have been computed , to which ) method of analysis having been applied , the results are obtained .
and 75 ) .
These figures represent the values of the components at miduighf .
The indicate that the maximum of the first component is in all at , or noon ; of the second component the maximum in all cases it at , or ; of the third component in all latitudes maximum in the winter is at , or 4 , in the summel at or midnight , the clJange t place at the equinox , when the ) ponent becomes zero ; of the component in the lower up to , the maximum is at , or 3 , at all sons ; higher latitudes the maximm is at , or , iu winter and summer , and at , or 3 , at the equinox .
comparison , the following results from actual vations a specilied are also given in siluilar form .
The close espondeuce of the main features of these two tables is The usion is unavoidable , that , although both in the actun ] and Lypothotical cases the harmonic compollents when combined epresentative of the peculiar forms of the curves from they vere derived , this affords no evidence of the existence of recurring of action corresponding to bhe different components , that the results are , to a great extent , due to the of the analysis .
The diurnal curve of temperature is not in relation to the mean valne , the maximum day temperature being much more exccss than the minimum night temperature is defect .
To adjust the first component , which is symmetrical about ics meall value , to the actual unsymmetrical cul.ve , must be modified by the other of the second order which has one of its maxima not ' removed from the minimum of the first order supplies the ortion of the compellsation due to this canse .
, from the character of the ysis , when the diurnal is ical ou either side hour half-way between noon and , that , when the day and night are equal , the conl ) zero .
Any ture from symmetry duces component third order , with resulb that with a hours one maximum will fall in the day betweon A 11 .
hlld , and the other in the between 6 6 while with a day than 12 , two maxima will 74 Lieut. R. Strachey .
rmonic of Observations of Air and Pressure .
76 Messrs. J. H. Gray and J. B. Henderson .
[ Mar. 2 , occur in the day and only one in the night .
In the former case the negative portions of the component correspond with the reduced morning and afternoon temperatures of the short day , and in the latt er the positive phases correspond with the higher temperature of the morlllngs and afbernoons of the longer These conclusions are in conformiby with those previously indicated .
The avaiIable data are insufficient to enable us to say whether the resuIts connected with the fourth component are as fulIy supported by observation as in th case of the third , but the facts so far as they go confirm this view .
It may also be pointed out that , if instead of reckoning the epochs of maximum from midnight , that nearest to noon had been adopted , it tvould have been seen that there is a distinct tendency for all these epochs to approach noon , affording evidence , which is perhaps hardly lequlred , that they are all closely dependent on the passage of the sull over the meridiall .
For Greenwich the results would be\mdash ; Winter .
Equinox .
Summer .
1st component . . . . . .
2nd , , . . . . . .
200 198 181 3rd , , . . . . . .
194 ( 193 ) 4th , , . . . . . .
190 ( 193 ) 196 In the case of the third and fourth components , the figures enclosed in brackets are epochs of minimum .
II .
" " The Effects of Mechanical Stress on the Electrical Resistance of Metals By JAMES H. GRAy , M.A. , B.Sc. , and JAMES B. HENDERSON , B.Sc. , Intcrnational Scholars , Glasgow University .
Communicated by LORD KELVIN , P.B.S. Received February 10 , 1893 .
tract .
This investigation was begun for the purposc of obtaining asily worked method of testing effect of any nical treatment on the density and specific resistance of met For alberation of density , coppe ] , lead , and manganese coppe ] wircs were tested .
The cffec6 of ' was always to diminish the density , .
the aIteration being small however : for copper about per cent. , and for lead per cent. effect of drawing througlt holcs in a steel plate was somewhat greater , showing at first an

