V. " Note on Ethylene-Dichloride of Platinum .
" By P. GRIESS , Esq. , and C. A. MARTINS , Ph. D. Communicated by Dr. HOFMANN .
Received December 16 , 1861 .
About thirty years ago , Zeise obtained , by the action of dichloride of platinum upon alcohol , a compound which he found to have the following composition , C2 -I Pt , Cl , .
This formula was corroborated by the analysis of a series of compounds which this body forms with the chlorides of some of the metals .
The chloride-of-potassium compound , according to Zeise 's researches , contains C2 H1 Pt2 C12 , KC .
The chloride-of-ammonium compound has an analogous composition .
Zeise further observed that his platinum compound unites directly with ammonia , producing a substance of the formula C2 H,4 Pt2 C12 , NI3 .
The correctness of these formule Liebig , relying on certain theoretical conceptions , has called in question .
The discussion which followed his remarks has , however , in no way decided the constitution of these compounds .
We have undertaken to prepare and analyse some new double compounds of this series , in order if possible to elucidate the constitution of Zeise 's bodies .
We first endeavoured to establish the nature of the gas which under various conditions is evolved from Zeise 's compounds .
For this purpose we exposed the potassium-salts above mentioned to a temperature of 200 ?
, and collected the gas which was evolved , over bromine water .
In this manner an oily liquid was obtained , which was easily proved to be identical with dibromide of ethylene .
The formation of the gas seems to ensue according to the followingequation , CH Pt C12 , KCIPt2 C l , + KC1 + C , H , .
The formation of ethylene-gas , as well as the analysis of several salts which we prepared , seems to indicate that the original formulae given by Zeise are correct , and that the existence of the group ( C2 H)2 0 assumed by Liebig in these substances is not supported by experimental evidence .
We have succeeded in combining ethylene-dichloride of platinum ( this is the name which we propose for Zeise 's compounds ) with monoand diatomic bases .
We have also combined this substance with the chlorides of the bases .
The bodies thus obtained may be arranged in two series , comparable in many respects with certain classes of compounds which proto .
chloride of platinum forms with organic bases .
If ethylene-dichloride of platinum be viewed as the chloride of a monoatomic radical thus , ( C2 H4 Pt C1 ) C1 , a very simple relation between the derivatives of this substance and some of the compounds of protochloride of platinum becomes perceptible .
First Series .
Compounds of protochloride of platinum .
PtCl H4 NC1 , PtCl ( , C I1I ) } NC1 , PtCl ( C2 II , ) N , C1 , 2Pt C1 ao t3}N pt } NC1 ( Ce 6 ) 1 Ha NC1 Pt j ( C0 11)2 H2 N01 Pt Pt J 114 NCl Pt2.J Compounds of ethylene-dichloride of platinum .
( C02 H Pt2 C1 ) , Cl H4 NCI , ( C , H4 Pt2 C1)C1 ( c0 Th ) } NCI , ( C2 H4 Pt4 C0C)0 ( C2 H4 ) } N2 C1 , 2[(C , 11 Pt2 C1)C1 ] Second Series .
( C2 H4 Pt2 1 ) } ) ( C , H1 ) H12 NCI ( C,2 H4 Pt , C1 ) ( 2 H1)2 'H &gt; NC1 ( C 24 Pt2 01 ) ( C2 11 ) ] H14 NCI ( C2 H4 Pt2 C1)J The compounds of ethylene-dichloride of platinum with ammonia and chloride of ammonium here mentioned have already been described by Zeise ; the remainder , as well as the greater number of the protochloride-of-platinum bodies , are new .
The detailed examination of these compounds , which are for the most part beautifully crystallized , is not yet completed ; but we take this opportunity of mentioning an observation which seems to give a more decided support to the view we have expressed regarding the relation of the series of ethylene-dichloride-of-platinum and that of the protochloride-of-platinum compounds .
If the aqueous solution of the easily soluble body 02H N2 C12 , ( C,2 H4 Pt2 Cl)C be boiled , a considerable quantity of gas is immediately cooled , and at the same time beautiful yellow , difficultly soluble needles are deposited containing HI4 N2 C1 .
Pt2 J This reaction may be explained by the following equation : NC 2 Cl,2[(C1tC)C 1 N2 C1,2+ 2C2 + Cl , I2Pt Cl. 2HN C12 , 2 [ ( C114 Pt , C1 ) C1]1 =2PtC .
6 Pt2 _____ _____t __..k_ ______ Dichloride of ethylene-diammonium , and Ethylene-diplatammonium .
ethylene-dichloride of platinum .
In conclusion it deserves to be noticed that the compounds of acetylene with subchloride of copper and other salts , which have been observed by Boettcher , Berthelot and others , may probably be classed with the group of the ethylene-dichloride of platinum .
It is with the intention of testing this view that we are now engaged in an investigation of the deportment of protochloride of platinum with olefiant gas .
The observations described in this Note were made in Professor Hofmnann 's laboratory .

