Observations on an astringent Vegetable Substance from China .
By William Thomas Brand , Esq. Sec. R.S. Read December 12,1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 39 .
] The substance described in this communication was sent to Sir Joseph Banks as a species of galls , used by the Chinese in dyeing black .
They have the appearance of irregular vesicles , of a purely astringent flavour , and closely agree with those described by Du Halde under the name of ou poey tse , which are also employed in China as the bases of many astringent medicines .
By digestion in cold distilled water , these galls yielded a pale brown infusion , of a highly astringent taste , and furnishing a copious white precipitate with solution of animal jelly : 100 parts thus yielded 78 of soluble matter , which , when obtained by evaporation , was of a brown resinous appearance ; and , though only slightly sour to the taste , powerfully reddened the infusion of litmus .
The author remarks that the perfect solubility of this part of the galls in cold water , and its pale colour , indicate that the tannin it contains is nearly , if not perfectly , free from extractive matter ; and , by pursuing the usual processes , he succeeded in obtaining it in a considerable state of purity .
The tannin thus afforded is also soluble in alcohol ; whence , if previous experiments be correct , it is analogous to the tannin of catechu , but distinct from that of galls , which is said to be insoluble in that menstruum .
When all soluble substances in water were removed from the Chinese galls , the residuum afforded to alcohol a minute portion of resinous matter , and 23 per cent. of insoluble woody fibre then only remained .
A further examination of the aqueous infusion proved it to contain gallic acid in considerable proportion ; and the method which best succeeded in its separation , consisted in adding lime water to the cold aqueous infusion of the galls , which produces a precipitate composed of tan and lime , and leaves a gallate of lime in solution , which , when cautiously decomposed by oxalic acid , furnishes oxalate of lime and gallic acid nearly , but not perfectly , pure .
The author was equally unsuccessful in procuring that acid in a pure form by the other processes usually had recourse to .
It was either combined with minute portions of tan , or , when obtained by sublimation , was empyreumatically tainted .
In conclusion , it is remarked , that the Chinese galls differ from other analogous vegetable substances in the absence of extractive matter , whence they may be regarded as the most promising source of pure tan and gallic acid ; that the same circumstance renders them peculiarly fitted for the basis of a black dye , and of writing-ink , while it at the same time renders them ill calculated for the production of leather , which without extractive matter is brittle and imperfect .

