]\gt ; Mr. J. Griffiths .
Abstract of some April 30 , 1885 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks deoed for them .
The following Papers were read : I. " " Abstract of some Results in Elliptic Functions .
( Part II By JOHN GRIFFITHS , M.A. Communicated by Professor G. G. , Sec. R.S. Received April 9 , 1885 .
1 .
On the Punction Complementary to Jacobi 's .
The double periodicity of the elliptic functions gives rise to an interesting function of the form , where , By changing , respectively , into ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , , it is easily seen that satisfies the relations , viz. :\mdash ; , , 2 .
Deduction of a Function .
Writing we can take the relations as equivalent to\mdash ; , , Results in Elliptic Functions .
is , in facl , connected with Jacobi 's by the equation 3 .
of in a rmonic Series containing odd Multiples of From the above materials it is found that\mdash ; reosh . . .
ad infin where and .
4 .
Some Consequences of the above Theorems .
Among the numerous resuIts which flow from the above I notice the following , .
:\mdash ; If this be combined with Jacobi 's . .
we have the curious relation\mdash ; * Other relations follow from the function ' wluch deserves to be studied .
As regards the transformation of the function , the resuIts are very similar to those obtained in the case of Jacobi 's April 2 , 1885 . . .
ad infin .
From the formula dnu ' we have . . .
This resuIt is , in fact , Jacobi 's , as we can see by changing into , and consequently into From we deduce . .
, . . .
5 .
Extension of the above Method to a Function ( jonnected with Integrals of the Third Kind .
In a former note by the presenb writer mention was made of a ri of the form , where Enterochlorophyll and Allied Pigments .
This is not exactly the form considered by Jacobi , but if we write and his result is equivalent to Connected with is a second function of the form .
This satisfies the relations I find that it can be expressed in terms of by of the equation , where is the same constant as above .
It thus appears that and are connected with and supplement each other in a very remarkable manner .
For example , if we write and in the more convenient forms , , it follows that besides Jacobi 's result , , we have likewise the equivalent form .
II .
' Further Observations on Enterochlorophyll and Allied Pigments By C. A. MAcMuNN , NI .
A. , NI .
D. cated by Professor M. FOSTER , Sec. R.S. Received April 21 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) In a paper read before the Royal Society in 1883 , I ibed the results of an examination of the so-called ' ' bile\ldquo ; of invertebrates , and showed that the alcohol extracts of their liver or other appendage 01 the intestine answering to that organ , showed a spectrtlm so like that of vegetable chlorophyll , as to have led me to assume that no ' essential difference exists between the spectrum of enterochlorophyll and plaut chlorophyll .

