XV .
An Account of the Relistian Tin Mine .
By Mr. Joseph Came , in a Letter to Davies Giddy , Esq. M. P. F. R. S. Read May 7 , i807 .
DEAR SIR , Penzance , April 22 , 1807 .
WHEN I mentioned the occurrence of pebbles of chlorite shist , cemented by crystalized tin , in the Relistian mine , you .
expressed a wish to receive a particular account of this novel circumstance .
The Relistian mine is.nearly on a level with the surround- .
ing country .
The lode has been seen at the depth of 12 , 25,50 , 6 ) , 75 , 8 , and o9 fathoms from the surface .
It is of different width in different parts ; the extreme width is 36 feet , and in this part it is principally worked .
As it extends , east and west ( which is its due course ) , its width gradually diminishes , till at the distance of 1oo fathoms east it is but 5 feet wide .
It is composed ( excepting the metallic substances ) of shist , chlorite , and quartz .
In some parts the shist predominates , and in others the chlorite ; the quartz is throughout the smallest component part .
The engine shaft ( see plan ( A ) ) is situated 8 fathoms north of the widest part of the lode ( B ) .
In sinking the shaft a flookan ( C ) , about 2 inches wide , was dicovered , bearing a. south-east course , which cut the lode at an angle of 45 ; and heaved and disordered it .
At the depth of 12 , 25 , and 50 fathoms , nothing was discovered in the lode but the cavities from which the ore had been taken away during the former period of working the mine .
At 65 fathoms in depth were found , close to the flookan , a great number of angular fragments of shist , cemented by the same substance .
At the depth of 75 fathoms the flookan ( C ) became 4 inches wide in the shaft ( A ) , and continued of that size for o fathoms ; it then became divided into 4 parts or branches ( D ) , each diverging from its former course , and in this state it continued through the lode(B ) , of which the first 3 feet were composed of copper pyrites ( E ) , and then was discovered a body of pebbles ( F ) , nearly i2 feet square , extending in width to the extreme branches of the flookan .
In this part of the lode the shist greatly predominates ; of course the pebbles are generally composed of shist , cemented in some parts by the same substance or chlorite , in others by oxyde of tin , which is generally crystallized , and in some of the crevices there is a little copper pyrites .
It is singular that a few pebbles ( perhaps not more than half a score ) were found of quite a different nature from the others ; they were composed of tin in quartz coated with chlorite .
The pebbles did not continue in a body to the height of more than 2 fathoms ; but scattered bunches , and single pebbles , were found 4 fathoms above and 6 fathoms below the place in which they were at first discovered .
It is only necessary to add , that the lode has since been worked 15 fathoms deeper than where the pebbles occurred ; it there consists for fi7/ o. Ba. .
II I. IDCCC1 I. IJa ite ILp .
294 .
__=___ _ , .
_ _. .
= ... .
_ ... ... :..----_ BBA &amp; a114c &amp; 4 .
, fI iIIII the most part of chlorite formed in a regular manner ; not the least trace of pebbles is to be seen , nor indeed of any disturbance in the:strata .
I am , dear Sir , very sincerely yours , JOSEPH OARNE .
; Penzance , Cornwall

