279 On the Integration of Algebraical .
aportant record for reference in the future progress of seismology , i Iv thought it desirable that it should be presented to the Royal \gt ; vK tie , with a view to it being preserved in the Archives of the Society ; uic !
' would beg to be informed whether the Council may think fit to iceit the deposit .
I remain , dear Sir , Truly yours , Robert Mallet .
he thanks of the Society were given to Mr. Mallet for his valuable [ 'rent .
ae following Paper was read:\#151 ; .
u the Integration of Algebraical Functions , with Illustrations in Mechanics .
" By W. H , L. Russell , F.R.S. Received December 17 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) le profound researches of Weierstrass , of Riemann , of Clebsch , and l\gt ; lan on the higher integrals have of late attracted the attention and o\lt ; the admiration of mathematicians .
There is , however , this differ- ?
n between these researches and the corresponding investigations in ai tic functions\#151 ; in the latter we investigate the properties of the inte-erw themselves ; in the former we investigate the properties , of certain firential equations , involving these integrals , and with more than one .uble .
How the values of the integrals themselves are to be found irei these equations is difficult to see , and at all events must be a subject ot lormous complexity .
Accordingly it becomes desirable to ascertain , !
\gt ; ssible , a more simple method of evaluating the integrals themselves .
' * is what I have attempted in the first section of this paper .
I express to values of irrational algebraic quantities by means of linear differential ; cations with rational coefficients , and then express their integrals by : \#187 ; us of converging series .
l the second section I consider , to a certain extent , the inverse pro-da\#151 ; namely , to ascertain under what circumstances linear differential cations of the second order are satisfied by irrational functions .
This " dem I have already considered , although in an incomplete manner , in ^Proceedings of the Royal Society .
i the third section I illustrate the principles enunciated in the il section by the solution of dynamical problems .
I show that 1 b principle of vis viva enables us to resolve these problems to a gi'eat \lt ; 0 , nt by means of hyperelliptic functions and the higher transcendents .
altogether I venture to hope that the memoir which I have the n , our to lay before the Society will be read with interest by mathema-\#166 ; Hns .

