]\gt ; different physical Lord Rayleighhe temperature [ June 15 widely different physical .
As the temperature of the flam of cyanogen probably approaches the temperature of the carbon poleS of the electric arc , and as we have shown that carbon undoubtedly exists in the form of vapour in the arc discharge , from the fact of the ultra-violet line spectrum being present , the question naturally arises , is carbon present in the form of vapour in the cyanogen flame In order to answer this question we have taken photographs of ultra-violet spectl'um of the cyanogen flame fed with oxygen , and with exposures have had no difficulty in detecting one of the strongest carbon lines , , that at , along with a trace of what may be the pair of lines at 2837 , but more probably is a mercury line .
No other carbon line was found in the photographs .
It seems , therefore , proved that carbon vapour does exist in the flame of cyanogen although to a much smaller extent than in the arc discharge .
Observfttions must be made on the spectra of flames under high pressures , in order to solve many problems connected with spectroscopic enquiry , .
and this subject we hope to discuss in a future communication .
XIII .
" " Further Observations upon Liquid Jets , in continuation of those recorded in the Royal Society 's ' Proceedings ' for March and May , 1879 By Lord RAYLEIGH , F.B.S. , Prossor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Received June 8 , 1882 .
The experiments herein described were made in the spring and summer of 1880 , with t assistance of Mrs. Sidgwick .
Section 2 was indeed written out as it now stands in August of that year .
There were some other points which I had hoped to submit to examination , but hitherto opportunity has not been found .
On some , the mtances which influence the Scattering of a ertical Jet of Liquid .
S 1 .
It has been already shown that the normal scattering of a nearly vel.tical jet is due to the rebound of the , drops when they come into collision .
If , by any means , the drops can be caused to amalgamate at collision , the appeal'ance of the jet is completely transformed .
This resuIt occurs if a feebly electrified body be held near the place of resolution into drops , and it was also observed to follow the addition of a small quantity of soap to the water of which the jet was composed .
In trying to repeat the latter experimenb in May , 1880 , at Cambridge , I was astonisbed to find that even large additions of soap failed to prevent the scattering .
Thinking that the difference might 1882 .
] On Liquid Jets .
131 be connected with hardness of the Cambridge watel home I had used rain water\mdash ; I repeated the observations with distilled water , but without finding any explanation .
The jet of distilled water scattered freely , both with and without soap , and could only be prevented from doing so by electricity .
Eventually the anomalies were traced to diiferences in the character of the soap .
That used at Cambridge up to this point was a clarified specimen prepared for toilet use .
On substitution for it of common yellow soap , the old effects were fully reproduced .
Further experiment seemed to prove that the real was not soluble soap at all .
If water impregnated with the yellow soap was allowed to stand , a white deposit separated , after which the supernatant liquid was found to be inactive .
But after shaking up the same effects produced as at first .
The addition of caustic potash to the unclarified soapy mixture destroyed its power .
On the other hand , sulphuric acid rendered the clarified soap solution active .
The collclusion from these facts would be that the real agent is unsaponified reasy matter distributed through the liquid ; and this view is confirmed by the striking resuIts which follow the addition of small quantities of milk .
The experiment may be made conveniently by connecting a Woulf 's bottle with the water tap by a rubber tube fitted to one tubulure , while the vertical nozzle is in connexion with another tubulure .
If a little milk be placed in the bottle , the jet of opalescent liquid apparently coheres , and passes the summit in one unbroken stream .
After a time the is gradually washed out , and the scattering is -established .
About one drop of skimmed milk per ounce of water is sufficient to produce the effect .
I must not omit to mention that on several occasions distinct evidence was obtained that it is possible for soap to be in excess .
With a large quantity the coherence of the jet was imperfect , and was improved by dilution .
The complete elucidation of the subject probably requires more chemical knowledge and experience than is at my command .
Of the various otlJer substaltces which have been tried , such as glycerine , sugar , gum arabic , alcohol , sulphuric acid , none have been found active .
Vertical fountaiIls of mercury were found not to scatter .
The head was about 15 inches , and various glass nozzles were used from inch .
to inch in diameter .
Also a nozzle terminating in an amalgamated brass plate , through which a hole of inch was pierced .
In all these cases the drops of mercury coalesced at collision , behaving in the same way as drops of milky water issuing from the same nozzles .
ountains of clean water issuing from these nozzles under the pressure scattered freeIy .
When the diameter the nozzle from which a water jet issues 132 Lord Rayleigh .
[ June reduced to below inch , the scattering cannot be prevented by the presentation of an electrified body .
One reason for this is evident .
The mutual repulsion of the similarly electrified drops increases rapidly relatively to the masses as the size is reduced , and it may happen that before the electrification to the separating envelope at contact is arrived at , the repulsion may be powerful enough to prevent of the drops from coming into contact at all .
In connexion with this it may be remarked that two perfectly equal and equally electrified spheres would repel one another at all distances ; but that if there be the slightest difference in the size or electrification , the repulsion will be exchanged for attraction befooe actual contact is .
This attraction will be local , and thus the opposed parts of the surfaces may come into contact with considerable violence , even when the relative motion of the centres of the masses is small .
It is easily shown experimentally ( see S 4 ) that violence of contact tends to promote coalescence , so that we have here a possible explanation of the action of electricity .
With respect to the persistent scattering of very fine jets , however , it would appear that the principal cause is simply that many of the fine drops fail to come into contact in any case .
The capillary forces act with exaggerated power , and doubtless impress upon the minute drops irregular lateral velocities , which may easily reach a magnitude sufficient to cause them to clear one another as tlJey pass .
At any rate little difference is observable in this espect between a fine jet of lean water under feeble eIectrical influence , and ons to which a little milk has been added , but without electrification .
With a suitable jet , say from a nozzle about inch diameter , and rising about 2 feet , the sensitiveness to electricity is wonderful , more especially when we remember that the effect is differential .
I have often caused a jet to appear coherent , by holding near the place of resolution a brass ball about 1 in in diameter , supported by a silk thread , and charged so feebly that a delicate gold-leaf electroscope would show nothing .
Indeed , some care is necessary to avoid being misled by accidental electrifications .
On one occasion the approach of a person , who had not purposely being doing anything electrical , invariably caused a transformation in the appearance of the jet .
Thejets hitherto under discussion are such as resolve themselves naturally into drops soon after leaving the nozzle , or at any rate before approaching the summit of their path .
If the diameter be increased , we may arrive at a condition of things in which the undisturbedjet passes the summit unbroken .
In such a case the addition of milk , or the presentation of an electrified body , produces no special effect .
One interesting observation , howeyer , may be made .
By the action of a of suitable pitch , e.g. , a tuning-fork , 1882 .
] On Liquid Jets .
133 resolution on the upward path may be effected .
As the vibratiQn gradually dies down , the place of resolution moves upwards , but it cannot pass a certain point .
When the point is reached , resolution into actual drops ceases , the upper of the jet exhibiting simple undulations , when viewed intermittently .
The phe1lomenon is iu perfect harmony with theory .
As it leaves the nozzle , the jet is unstable for the kind of disturbance imposed upon it by the vibrator .
The subsequent loss of , however , shortens the wave-lengths of disturbance , until at length they are less than the circumference of the jet , after which the disturbauce changes its character from unstable to stable .
The vibrator must evidently produce its effect quickly , or not at all .
of ular ibrations of Low Pitch .
S 2 .
Towards the close of my former paper the capillary phenomena of jets , I hazarded the suggestion that the double stream obtained when an obliquely ascending jet is subjected to the influence of a vibration , an octave graver than the natural note , is due to the compound character of the vibration .
At the time of 's researches the fact that most musical notes are physically composite was much less appreciated than at present , and it is not that this point escaped attention .
I have .
lately repeated Plateau 's experiments under improved conditions , ults confirmatory of the view that no adequate explanation of the phenomena can be given which does not have regard to the possible ) resence of overtones ; and I have added some observations on the effects of the simultaneous action of two notes forming a consonant chord .
In order to make a satisfactory examination of it , it is necessary to employ some apparatus capable of affording an intermittent view of thejet in its various stages of .
In the experiments formerly described I used spal.ks from an induction coiI , governed by the same tuning-fork which determined the resolution of the This has latterly been replaced by a perforated disk of black card- board , driven at a uniform speed by a small water-motor .
diameter of the holes is one-fifth of an inch\mdash ; about that of the pupil of the eye , and the interval between the holes is about four inches .
Examined under these conditions the jet and resultant drops are sufficiently well defined , and there is abundant illumination if the apparatus is so arranged that the jet is seen projected against the sky .
The speed of the motor is regulated so that there is one view through the holes in about one complete period of the phenomenon to be observed .
If the power is a little in excess , the application of a slight fricbion to the axle carrying the disk the image steady , or , what is better , allows it to go forwards its phases with moderate If be the frequency of the principal note of the jet , then , as explained in my paper , In the present experiment it was found that 1050 .
centims. were discharged in four minutes , and the head was inches , so that C.G.S. measure\mdash ; ; ; ; whence As sources of sound tuning-forks , provided with adjustil ) sliding pieces , were oyed , except when it was important to eliminate the octave as far as possible ; the vibration was communicated to the reservoir through the table on which it stood .
The forks were eithel screwed to the table and vibrated with a bow , or mounted on stands ( resting on the table ) and maintained electrically .
The method was quite adequate when only one fork was wanted at a time .
With pitches from 370 to about 180 , the observed phenomena reed perfectiy with the unambigtlous predictions of theory .
From the point\mdash ; decidedly below 370\mdash ; at which a regular effect was first 1882 .
] On Liquid Jets .
135 btained , there was always one drop for each complete vibration of the fork , and a single stream , every drop away under the conditions as its predecessor .
After passing 180 it becomes a question whether the octave of the fork 's note may not produce an effect as well as the prime .
If this effect be suffioient the number of drops is doubled , and unless the prime be very subordinate indeed , there is a double stream , alterna , te drops taking sensibly different .
In these experiments the influence of the rime was usually sufficient to determine the number of drops , even hood of pitch 128 .
Sometimes , howe , the octave ) ecame prelominant , and doubled the number of drops .
It must be remembered that relative intensities with which the two vibrations reach the jet depend upon many accidental circumstances .
The table has natural notes of its own , and even the moving of a weight up.on it may change the conditions very materially .
When the octave 1s not strong enough actually to double the drops , it often produces an effect which is very apparent to an observer nlng the .
transformation through the holes .
On one occas.ion a vlgorous bowing of the fork which favours the octave , crave .
at first a double stream , but this after a few seconds passed into a single one .
Near point of olution those consecutive drops which ultimately lcoalesce as the fork dies down , are connected by a ligament .
If the octave is btrong enough this ligament breaks , and the drops are separated , otherwise ament draws the half-formed drops ether , and the stream becomes single .
The transition from the one of to the other could be watched with facility .
'order to get rid entirely the influence of the octave a different rangement is necessary .
It was found that the desired result could be arrived at by holding a 128 fork in the hand over a resonator of same pitch resting on the table .
The transformation was now quite similal in character to that effected by a fork of frequency 256 , the only differences that the drops were bigger and twlce .
as widely spaced , and that the spherule , which results from the gatherlng together of the ligament , was much larger .
We may conclude that the cause of the doubling of a jet by the sub-octave of tho note natural to it is to be found in the presence of the second , from which scarcely any musical notes are free .
When two forks of pibches 128 and 256 were sounded together , the single or double stream could be obtained at pleasul.e by relative intensities .
Any imperfection in the tuning is rendered very evident by the behaviour of ths jet , which performs evoIutions syn.chronous with the audible beats .
This , which does not require the aid of the .
disk , suggests that the effect depends in some degree upon the relative phases of the two tones , as be pexpected .
In some cases the influence of the sub-ootave is fold .
In the case of , fork screwed to the table the third of the note must be extremely weak , if not altogether missing ; but the second ( octave ) component is fairly strong , and in fact determines the number of drops .
At the same time the influence of the prime is sufficient to cause the alternate drops .
to pursue paths , so that a double stream is observed .
By the addition of a 256 fork there was no difficnlty in obtaining the triple stream , but it was of more interest to examine whether it were possible to reduce the double stream to a single one with only drops per second .
In order to secure as strong and as pure a undamental tone as possible , I cause it to act the most favourablemanner upon the jet , the air space over the water in the reservoir was tuned to the note of the fork by sliding a piece of glass over the neck so as partially to cover it .
When the fork was held over the resollator thus formed , the pressure which expels the jet was rendered variable with a frequency of , and overtones were excluded as far as possible .
To the unaided eye , however , the jet still appeared double , though on more attentive examination one set of drops was seen to be decideilly smaller than the other .
With the revolving disk , giving about eightyfive views per second , the real state of the case ; made clear .
The smaller drops were the spherules , and the stream was single in the same sense as the streams given by pure tones of frequencies 128 and 256 .
The increased size of the spherule is of course to be attributed to the greater length of the ligament , the principal drops being no three times as widely spaced as when the jet is under the influence of the 256 fork .
With still graver forks screwed to the table the number of drops continued to respond to the second component of the note .
The double octave of the principal note ( 64 ) gave 128 drops per second , and the infiuence of the prime was so feeble that the duplicity of the stream was only just recognisable .
Below 64 the observations were not carried .
Attempts to get a single stream of 64 drops per second were unsuccessful , but it is probably quite possible to do so with vibrations of greater power than I could command .
In the case of a compound note of pitch 64 a considerable variety of effects might ensue , according to the relative ' of 1882 .
] Liquid Jets .
various components .
Thus , the stream might be single this is unlikely ) , double , triple , four-fold , or even five-fold , with a corl'epondin g number of drops .
Observations were next made on the effects of chords .
For the chord of the the pitches taken were 256 and .
The two forks could be screwed to the table and bowed , or , as is preferable ( especially in the case of the chords of the fourth and third to be poken of presently ) , maintained in vibration electromagnetically by a periodic current from a break-fork of pitch , standing another table .
The revolving disk was driven at such a speed as to give about y- ve vlews ht -five views er second .
As was to be expected , the num- ber of drops was either 256 in a triple stream , or in a double stream , according to the relative intensities of the two vibrations .
With the maintained forks the phenomenon is perfectly under control , and is no difficulty in observing the transition from the one state of to the other .
In like manner with forks 256 and , driven by fork 64 , and with sixty-four views per second , the stream is either triple or quadruple ; and with forks 256 and , we get at asure a four-fold or five-fold stream .
To obtain a good result the lntervals must be pretty accnrately tuned .
In the case of electrically 1naintained the relative phase remains unchanged for any length of time , and the spectacle seen through the revolving holes is one of great beauty .
The actual resnlts obtained experimentally by Plateau differ in some respects from mine , doubtless in virtue of the more composite character of the notes of the violoncello employed by him , bnt they are quite consistent with the views above expressed .
The only point as to which I feel any difficulty reJates to the single stream , occasionally resulted from the action of the twelfth below the principal note .
It seems improbable that this could have been a single stream of the kind that I obtained with some difficulty from a pure tone ; indeed the latter would have been pronounced to be a double stream an observer unprovided with an apparatns for intermittent views .
I should rather suppcse that the number of drops really corl.esponded to an overtone , and that from some accidental cause the diverge1lce of what would generally be separate streams failed to be sensible .
The Length of the Conhnuous Part .
When a jet falls vertically downwards , the cumstances upon which its stability or instability depend are continually inoo , more especially when the initial velocity is very small .
The kind of disturbance to which the jet is most sensitive as it leaves the nozzle is one which impresses npon it undulations of length equal to about four and a-half times the initial diameter .
But as the jet falls velocity increases and consequently the undulations are lengthened ) would be the case were the velocity constant , the initial disturbances being unaltered .
I have made many attempts to detelmine the origin of the disturbaJlces which remain in operation when the jet is protected ordinary tremors , but with little result .
By suspending the reservoir with india-rubber straps , \amp ; c. , from the top of a wooden tripod , itself resting upon the stone iloor of one of the lower rooms of the Cavendish Laboratory , a considerable degree of isolation was attained .
A stamp of the foot upon the floor , or the sounding of a not.e of suitable pitch of moderate intensity in the air , had no great effect .
Without feeling much confidence I rather incline to the opinion that the residual distnrbances of internal igin .
As the fluid flows up to the aperture along the inner surface of the plate which forms the bottom of the reservoir , eddying motions are almost certainly impressed upon it , and these may very possibly be the origin of the ultimate disin .
tegration .
With the view of testing this point , I arranged an experiment in which the velocity of the fluid over the solid should be as small as possible .
AB ( fig. 1 ) represents a large brass tube , to which a smaller is soldered at , suitable for india-rubber connexion .
The bottom 04 On Liquid Jets .
$he large tube consists of acarefully worked plate in which is a hole of inch diameter .
When the rubber tube placed in connexion with the water supply , ajet drops from , and may .
be made exceedingly fine by regulaton of -cock C. By tnrnlng the supply at altogether , the jet at A may be stopped , without the vessel .
The stability , due to the capillary tenslon of surface at , preponderates over the instability due to gravity .
By this device it is possible to obtain a jet whose velocity is acqnired lnlost -wholly afier leaving the vessel from which it issues .
In this form of the experiment , howevel .
, the jet is liable to dtbance depending upon the original velocity of the fluid as it passes ough the comparatively narrow rubber tube , and when I attempted a remedy by suspending a closed resel.voir ( fig. 2 ) , in which the water might be allowed first to come to rest , other difficulties presented themselves .
The air confined over the surface of the water acts as a spring , and the flow of water below tends to become intermittent , when rendered sufficiently slow by limiting the admission of cdefinite cycle is often established , air flowing in and water flowlng alternatively at the lower aperture .
The may be overcome by careful manipulation , but there is no easy means of aklng an adequate comparison with other , so that the question remalns undecided whether the residual disturbances are principally of internal or of external origin .
Collision of two Resolved S4 .
In the case of a simple vertical fountain , when the scattering is prevented by electricity , there is every reason to believe that the action is differential , depending on a difference of potentials of colliding drops .
The principal electrification , however , of the uccessive drops must be the same ; and thus , sensitive as it is , this which have been made subject of examination .
Two similar brass nozzles , tel.minating in apertures about inch in diameter , were supplied from the same reservoir of water , and were held so that the jets rising obliquely from them were in same plane and crossed each other at a moderate angle .
The jets were resolved into regular series of drops by the action of fork screwed to the table and set in action by bowing .
phenomenon thus established could be examined with facility by lntermittent vlslon ough a revolving perforated disk ( S2 ) , so arranged that about 256 holes passed the eye per second .
When the angle of collision is small , the disposition of the files of drops may bc made such that they rebound thought crossing , fig. 3 ; more often , however , the drops shoulder their way through after one or more collisions , somewhat as in fig. 4 .
In both cases the presentation of an electrified body to one place of resoIution will determine the amalgamation of colliding drops , with of course complete aIteration of the subsequent behaviour .
By judicious meant a feebly electrified body may be held in an intermediate position On Liquid Jets .
141 between the two points of so as not to produce the effect , nfirming the view that the action is differential .
hi her angle of collision amalgamation will usually At a somew a occur without the aid of electricity , but the fact may easily escape recognition intermittent vision is not employ .
The streams into one , as we might perhaps expect , but appear do not usua to pass through one aItother , much as if no un on drops had .
With the aid of the revo vlng he revolvin disk the course of things is occur rendered evident .
The separating layer is indeed ruptured at contact , and for a short time the drops move as one mass .
There is , however , in general , considerable outstanding relative velocity , which is sufficient to bring about an uItimate separation , preceded by the formation of a ligament ( fig. 5 ) .
In certain cases , although after contact a ligament is formed , the relative velocity is insnfficient to overcome its tension , and the drops draw again together and ultimately cohere .
If the impact is very direct , so that the relative velocity is entirely in the line of centres , the drops may flatten against one anothel* and become united without the formation of a ligament .
In order to determine how small a difference of potential would be effective in causing the coalescence of streams of drops meeting at a small angle , the two places of resolution were enclosed in inductor , between which with the aid of a battery a difference of potential could be established .
The arrangement is shown in fig. 6 .
One of the inductors is placed in connexion with the earth , wit'n the reservoir from which the water comes , and with one pole of tho battery .
By operating a key , the other inductor may be placed pleasure in communication with the first inductor : or with the othel pole of the battery .
In the first case the battery is out of use , in the second the difference of potential due to the battery is established between the two inductors .
Lord Rayleigh .
Experiment showed that the effect depends a good deal upon the exact manner of collision .
In almost all cases twenty cells of a la Rue battery sufficed to produce amalgamation , with subsequent replacement of the streams by a single one in a direction bisecting the angle between the original ections .
With a less battery .
power the result may be irregular , some of the drops coalesclng and others rebounding .
When the collisions are very direct , even four cells will sometimes cause a marked transformation .
The complebe solution of the problem of the direct collision of equal spheres of liquid , though probably within the powers of existin mathematical analysis , is not necessary for our purpose ; but it may give precision to our ideas to consider for a moment the case of a row of equal spheres , or cylinders , with centres disposed upon a straight ] .
and so squeezed together that the distances the centres must be less than the diameters .
By the symmetry , the common surfaces planes , and the force between contiguous masses is found by multiplying the area of the common surface by the internal capillary pressure .
When the amount of squeezing is small , the internal capillary pressure is approximately unaltered , and the force developed is simply proportional to the area of contact .
In the case of the cylinder the problem admits of very simple solution , even when the squeezing is not small ; for , as is easily seen , the free surfaces are necessarily semicircular , and thus the condition of unaltered volume is readily expressed .
It will of course be noticed that as regards lateral displacements the equilibrium is unstable .
Collsion of before S 5 .
The collision of unresolved streams was considered in my former paper .
It appeared that the electromotive force of a single Grove cell , acting acl .
OSS the common surface , was sufficient to deterOn Liquid Jets .
1882 .
] coalescence , and that the addition of a small quantity of soap ' mlne impossible .
Moreover , the " " coalescence of the jets made reboun without the action of would sometimes occur in a caprlclous manner , lectricity or other apparent cause As in many respects this form of the phenomenon is the most instructive , I was desirous of finding out the explanat on the apparent caprice , and many experiments have been made with this object in view .
The observations on fountains recorded in S 1 having uggested the idea that the accident , al presence of g.reasy matter , removable by caustic potash , might operate , this point was examined .
July 8 , \mdash ; Colliding Jets .
glass bottles , with holes in the sides , close to the bottom , were fitted by means of corks with glass tubes , drawn out to nozzles of about of an inch in The bottles were well rinsed with caustic potash , to remove any possible traces of grease , and filled with tap water. .
The colliding jets coalesced in a manner apparently entirely caprlclous , on the on rinciple observable being that they coalesced even more readily with high pressnres ( 12 inches ) than with low , and with lower pressules would stand collision at greater angles .
The addition of caustic potash sufficient to give a very ecided taste to the water , produced no apparent effect Subsequently the water u.sed was boiled with caustic potash , but without success .
July 27 , 28 , 29 , 30.\mdash ; On the theory that when the jets collide without uniting there is between them a thin film of air , which would be very liable to be sucked up by not saturated with , we tried jets of water through which a stream of atmospheric had been passed for several houl.s .
We tried it three times .
first time the jets seemed very decidedly less liable to unite caprlclously .
The second time they behaved even worse than ordinary tap water 11 does .
The third time we thought it rather better than tap usua oes .
water usually is , but not materially so Jets of hot water , and of mixtures of alcohol and water var ous proportions , were also tried at this time , but without obtain ng any clue as to the origin of the difficulty .
I had begun almost to despair of success , when .
a determined attempt to conjecture in what possible ways one part of the stirred liquid could differ from another part suggesbed the idea that the anomalies were due to dnst .
" " Aug. 1880.\mdash ; We dropping dust on to the colliding jets just above the point of collision , and found that union was always produced .
The following powders were tried\mdash ; powdered cork , sand , lycopodium , plaster of Paris , flowers of sulphur , sugar , dust that had accumulated upon a shelf , and later emery and putty powder .
The lycopodium was a little more uncertain in its action than the others , .
Sidgwick 's " " Notc Book Acting upon this hint , Mrs. Sidgwick made an extended series of observations upon the behaviour of jets composed of water which had been allowed to settle thoroughly , and which vere protected from atmospheric dust .
For this purpose the jets were enclosed in a beaker glass , the end of which was stopped by a plug of boxwood , fitted airtight .
Through the plug passed horizontally the inclined glass nozzles , and underneath a bent tube serving as a drain .
The results , observed under these circumstances , were such as to render it almost certain that dust is the sole cause of the capricious unions .
The protected jets of settled water were observed for a total period of 246 , during which the unions were at the average rate of one in ten minutes .
The longest intervals without unions were thirby-four mtnutes and twenty-nine mimutes .
Comparative experiments were made upon the behaviour of jets from the same nozzles under other conditions .
Thus jets of unsettled water , but protected from atmospheric dust , united on an average twenty-four times in ten minutes .
With unsettled water the protection from atmospheric dust is not of much use , as unprotected jets of the same water did not unite more than twenty-six times in ten minutes .
On the other hand , jets of settled water , not protected the atmosphere , united only twelve times in ten minutes .
, no doubt , somewhat different numbers might be obtained on repetition of these experiments , they show clearly that the dnst in the water is the more frequent cailse of union under ordinary circumstances , but that when this is removed the atmospheric dust still exerts a powerful ence .
The difficulty of water free from dust is well known from Tyndall 's experiments , so that the residual tendency to unite under the most favourable conditions will not occasion surpl.ise .
Although there is no reason to suppose that any other cause than dust was operative in the above exporiments , it remains true that very little impurity of a greasy character will cause immediate union of colliding jets .
For this purpose the addition of milk at the rate of one drop of milk to a pint of water is fficient .
It may be noticed too that the effect of milk is not readily neutralised by caustic potash .
With respect to the action of electr.icity , further experiments have been made to determine the minimum electromotive force competent to cause .
The reIJt from a Daniell cell was led through a onnected woint otretched wtinum fwith tffaight 1ength ovire.onnected bsupp yecond n distance between the two fine wire contacts , though definite at any one moment , was found to vary on diiferent occasions , possibly in consequence of forces having their seat at the surfaces of the platinum .
From one-half to three-quarbers of the whole force of the Daniell was usually required .
With a view to further speculation upon this subject , an important question suggests itself as to whether or not there is electrical contact between colliding and rebounding jets .
To solve this question it was only necessary to introduce a fine wire reflecting meter into the arrangement just described , taking care that the electromotive forces employed fell short of what would be required to cause the union of the jets .
Suitable keys were introduced more convenient manipulation , and sulphuric acid was added the water , in ol.der to make sure that absence of strong galvanometer deflection could not be due merely to the high resistance of the thin columns water composing the jets .
Repeated trials under these ( ionditions proved that so long as the jets rebounded their electrical insulation from one another was practically perfect .
As to the explanation of the tion of electricity in promoting union , it would be possible to ascribe..it to the additional pressure called into play by electrical attraction of the opposed as plates of a condenser .
But it appears much more natural to regard it as due rather to actual disruptive discharge , by which the separating skin is perforated , and the equilibrium of the capillary forces is upset .
A small electromotive force , incapable of overcomin the iusulation of the thin separating layer , is without eifect .
XIV .
" " On a Collection of Rock Specimens from Socotra By Professor T. G. BONNEY , M.A. , F.R.S. , F.G.S. Received June 12 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) In the spring of 1879 the island of Socotra , which lies off the north-east corner of Africa , about 140 miles from Cape Gardafui , was visited by Professor Bailey Balfour .
Landing at the north-west extremity , he traversed the northern side of the island up to the eastern end , then returning by a more central course to the sea , he VOL. XXXIy .

