[ 231 ] V. Cases of Colour-blindness , No. No. together with Eleven Selected Examples of Normal Colour Sensations* By George J. Burch , 31.A .
, D.Sc .
F.R.S. , Lecturer , University Colleg , Reading .
( Received Apiil 27 , \#151 ; Read June 27 , 1907 .
) Since the publication of my paper on " Artificial Temporary Colour-blindness , " * I have examined the colour sensations of several hundred people , including a number of cases of colour-blindness , which I propose in the present communication to describe and to discuss .
I had two objects in view , namely , to obtain a sufficient number of measurements from persons of normal vision to serve as a fair standard of normal colour sensations , and also to obtain as many examples as possible of the different varieties of partial or complete colour-blindness .
Method .
The method employed is that described in my paper , with some modifications suggested by my experience with the colour-blind .
A spectroscope of wide dispersion must be used , so that not more than one-tenth part , at the most , of the spectrum can be seen at one time .
The field of view must be wide , a Kellner eye-piece answering admirably , since flatness of field is not required , and sharp definition is of secondary importance .
A good bold pointer in the centre of the field is far better than cross wires , which are difficult to see in the faint light at the ends of the spectrum .
[ It is essential that there should be no admixture of light from other parts of the spectrum reflected by the tubes , or of white light .
Hence prisms answer better than a grating.\#151 ; August 28 , 1907.J First Stage .
The first stage of the examination is as follows : the subject , having adjusted the illumination to that degree most pleasant to himself , is asked to examine the spectrum from end to end , and point out the parts where changes in the character of the light occur , naming the colours himself .
The usual order is given below , the principal colours\#151 ; i.e. , those specified by the largest number of observers\#151 ; being printed in capital letters , and those next in importance with initial capitals :\#151 ; deep-red , BED , scarlet , Orange , Yellow , yellow-green , GBEEN , Blue-green , BLUE , indigo , violet .
* N.B.\#151 ; Cases No. I to No. Y were published in my paper on " Artificial Temporary Colour-Blindness , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 191 , 1899 , pp. 1-34 .
t 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 191 , 1899 , pp. 1-34 .
( 255 .
) 28.9.07 .
Of the four principal colours , violet is the one about which there is most uncertainty .
The name appears to be associated in the popular mind with purple rather than the violet of the spectrum .
One often hears the remark , " Real violet has more red in it .
" In point of fact , the flowers and paints and dyes called " violet " invariably give a spectrum containing red rays .
But this colour , whatever be the name given to it , is recognised by the majority as one of the principal colours of the spectrum .
Minute care in giving names to all the gradations of tint between red and green , or even throughout the entire spectrum , is no proof that the colour sensations are normal .
I have known a man give Newton 's seven colours quite correctly , and five minutes afterwards , when shown the F-line under a much higher power , call it " pink .
" One of Edridge-Green 's tests\#151 ; and it is a very effective one\#151 ; for colourblindness , is founded on the fact that lowering the illumination will often completely throw a man out if he does not really possess the sensations necessary to discriminate between two colours .
One or other of the following indications of abnormal colour sensations may be obtained during this part of the examination :\#151 ; Spectrum shortened at the red end .
No colour-change at I ) .
A strong colour-change at b. A band of grey , pink , purple , or nondescript colour between b and F. No colour-change at G. Spectrum shortened at the violet end .
Second Stage .
The next stage of the examination in the case of normal vision is very simple .
The subject is asked to select the part which he considers the purest yellow\#151 ; or , failing that , the colour midway between red and green\#151 ; then , after having looked steadily at red between B and 0 for 30 seconds , he is to find this selected colour as quickly as possible .
If , as Young taught , this neutral yellow results when red and green are equally excited , then the lessening of the red sensation by fatigue will cause it to be balanced by a smaller amount of green , and the neutral yellow will he found nearer the red than before .
Similarly , after 30 seconds ' fatigue by green light between E and fr , the green-blue junction will be found nearer the green .
And after 30 seconds ' fatigue by blue light just beyond F , the blue-violet junction , normally at G , will shift nearer to F. I usually take all four colours in succession thus , in order that the subject may forget the exact position of the colours before he comes back to them the second I)R .
G. J. BURCH ON CASES OF COLOUR-BLINDNESS .
'233 time , and for the same reason , I use the widest dispersion at my command .
I next ask him to trace the visible spectrum to its extreme limit in the violet , and when this has been done , fatigue the eye for 30 seconds with violet near H , and ask him to find the beginning of blue .
This should be , for normal sight , well to the violet side of G. Similarly , after 30 seconds ' exposure to blue , he finds the green extending beyond F. The test is completed by 30 seconds ' fatigue with green , when the red should be found between E and I ) , and should be traced as far as B or A , according as diffused daylight , or direct sunlight or the electric arc , is used .
By suitably plotting the results so obtained , the relative strength of the colour sensations is shown .
The Method in Cases of Colour-blindness .
The procedure is less simple in the case of the colour-blind , for they not merely use a different language , but have different sensations to express .
Hence the importance of a test that eliminates all questions of nomenclature and judgments of the mind , and depends only upon the most elementary of all perceptions , namely , the consciousness of a difference .
It is not necessary even to know the names given by the subject to the colours .
I generally say , in the first stage of the examination , " Turn the screw till you come to a part that looks different , and bring that part up to the pointer .
" Now , such a difference may be either a difference of intensity , or a difference of quality , that is to say , of colour sensation .
The first stage of the examination does not decide between these alternatives , but the second discriminates between them in a very remarkable and instructive way .
For example , a person with normal colour sensations describes the spectrum as red up to C , then changing gradually through orange to yellow a little beyond D , and so passing into green , which extends to F , or thereabouts , where the next striking change occurs .
A green-blind person may , in the first stage of the examination , describe " yellow " as beginning at B , and extending to b , where the most striking change is found , so that we might be led to suppose that he has a yellow sensation in place of green .
The second stage reveals a fundamental difference between the two cases in their reaction to fatigue .
The normal eye , after exposure to red light , finds the yellow nearer the red end of the spectrum .
The green-blind , eye , after exposure to red light , finds the " yellow " from the red end of the spectrum , because the so-called " yellow " is merely the brighter part of the red sensation , the " difference " perceived being one of quantity , not quality , so that , when the eye is fatigued for red , this " difference " is not found so near the end of the spectrum as when the eye was fresh .
VOL. CXCIX.---B .
2 H I drew attention to the corresponding phenomenon in the blue and violet in my previous paper , hut did not then realise its importance in practical testing .
Part of the difficulty in applying the test to cases of colour-blindness is due to the fact that their deficiencies as regards colour are frequently compensated for by an abnormally keen perception of intensity , and they accordingly notify three or four additional points of change , each of which has to be tested .
And moreover , until some idea has been formed as to the relative extent of their existing colour sensations , it is impossible to decide on the proper wave-length for producing fatigue .
Typical Examples of Normal Colour Sensations .
In my previous paper , # I have given the average limits in wave-lengths of the colour sensations of 70 persons who might be considered normal in the sense that none of them were colour-blind .
They were , however , not all alike , for 24 out of the 70 could see beyond K , and remarked on the peculiar brilliancy of the violet , f Obviously , in setting up a standard of colour sensation , a selection of the most perfect examples should be taken , rather than the average between the very good and the mediocre .
I have accordingly taken 10 of the best\#151 ; that is to say , of those who could see beyond A in the red and beyond K in the violet\#151 ; who passed the most severe tests with Holmgren 's woois , and who had no difficulty in locating the change of hue in the spectrum where blue passes into violet .
They were all tested by the method of fatigue for 30 seconds with light of moderate intensity , such as is used in ordinary work with the spectroscope .
To these I have added one who is interesting as being the brother of the two cases of red-blindness specially described in my previous paper .
His colour sensations were quite normal , and he could see K , but not the iron lines beyond K in the arc spectrum which were visible to all the others .
Evidence of a Separate Sensation for Blue .
It will be observed that I have definitely included Blue among the normal colour sensations .
Since 1899 I have examined several hundred persons whose colour sensations were normal , and I find that what I then said about the existence of a blue colour sensation , as distinct from violet , is confirmed .
In view of the fact that this statement brings me in conflict with the accepted forms of Young 's theory and also with that of Hearing , some discussion of the evidence may be permitted .
The conclusion drawn from my experiments , that no one colour sensation is related to any other in the sense indicated by Hearing , receives collateral confirmation from the observations of Waller on the retinal currents of the frog 's eye excited by * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 191 , 1899 , pp. 21 and 25 .
t Ditto , p. 24 , bottom .
DE .
G. J. BURCH ON CASES OF COLOUR-BLINDNESS .
light.* " Coloured lights act in the same direction , and in accordance with their luminosity .
No electrical evidence is obtained of antagonistic influence .
" Again , the measurements hy Gotch| of the time relations and E.M.F. of the retinal response to light from various parts of the spectrum strongly support Young 's fundamental conception of separate independent colour sensations .
He found three varieties of response\#151 ; that to red light , characterised by long latency and moderate E.M.F. , that to green light by very short latency and greater E.M.F. , whereas the response to violet showed moderate latency and small E.M.F. Moreover , " it was found that on either side of the green region the response always tended to resemble in its time relations that evoked by green light .
" In so far , therefore , as my observations are antagonistic to Hering 's theory , these experiments on the response of the frog 's retina may fairly be held to confirm them .
But as regards the point on which I differ from the Young-Helmholtz theory , they afford me no support .
Yet I think they do not contradict my view , and for two reasons .
One is that the spectrum of the arc is rich in violet and green and relatively poor in that part of the blue hy which the sensation , if it exists , should be excited , so that , as Gotch says : " the negative character of the results at present obtained cannot be regarded as conclusive .
" The other reason is that this sensation in human beings is so variable as to its intensity and extent that in a quite considerable percentage of cases it is difficult to discriminate between it and violet .
But on the other hand , to those who possess both , there is just as striking a difference between blue and violet as there is between red and green .
It is not a little remarkable that in an animal so far removed from the human being , experimental evidence should be found of three kinds of specialised response to light , and it might well be that a fourth , present in most of us , is absent in the frog.| The positive evidence in favour of the existence of a separate colour sensation for blue , resulting from my measurements of colour sensations during the last 10 years , is as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
To the majority of people there are three regions of the spectrum where the change of colour is more rapid than elsewhere , namely , in the neighbourhood of D , F , and G. 2 .
At D the change is from red to green through yellow , and to about three people out of ten it is gradual and spread over a considerable distance , so that the exact * ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 193 , 1899 , p. 162 .
f ' Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 31 , p. 28 , 1904 .
1 Hans Piper , 'Archiv fur Anatomy und Physiologie , ' Physiologische Abtheilung , Suppl. , 1905 , p. 172 , finds that for night-birds the maximum excitation of the retina is given by light of A 5350 , which corresponds well with the maximum of the green sensation in man .
For day-birds he gets maximum excitation with A 6000 .
My observations give about A 6368 as the maximum of the red sensation in man .
point of change is difficult to locate , and yellow is one of the important colours of the spectrum , the rest regarding it as unimportant and a mere transition colour between green and red .
3 .
At F the change is from green to blue through blue-green , which the great majority recognise as a mixed colour , though it evidently , in the eyes of a minority , more nearly agrees with their idea of pure green than the region about where the green sensation is most strongly excited .
4 .
At G the change is from blue to violet through indigo , and to quite a number of people the change of hue is spread over so large a space that they find a difficulty in pointing out where it begins or ends , exactly as some other people find a difficulty in locating the yellow .
5 .
After fatigue by blue the violet appears to reach farther into the blue , and at the same time the green appears to reach farther into the blue , just as after fatigue by green the blue appears to reach farther into the green on one side and the red does so on the other .
6 .
If violet were merely a darker shade of blue , as three or four people out of ten say when questioned closely , then after blue , violet should reach farther into the blue and , in addition , after violet the violet should reach farther into the blue .
This I have frequently found to be the case , but only with those who have a difficulty locating the change of hue near G. Several instances of it will be found among the cases of colour-blindness described in this paper .
It may indicate either a weak blue or a weak violet .
In all cases of normal sight , fatigue by violet causes the blue to reach farther into the violet .
7 .
If blue were violet mixed with green , then on fatiguing for green the blue-violet junction should move nearer blue , but it does not in any of the cases I have tested .
8 .
If violet were blue mixed with red , then on fatiguing for red the blue-violet junction should move , the blue extending farther into the violet , which should he diminished .
But no amount of fatigue of the red has the slightest effect on the violet , either in my own case or in any that I have tried .
For these reasons 1 consider blue and violet to he independent colour sensations .
I have applied the same tests to yellow with the greatest care in a great many cases , but can get no evidence of its existence as a separate colour sensation .
For instance , I cannot fatigue yellow without also fatiguing green .
If , by exposure to yellow , I bring the red-yellow junction nearer the yellow , I find that at the same time the green-blue junction has moved nearer the green .
I conclude , therefore , that yellow is not a separate colour sensation .
" Yellow " seems to be the name given by the green-blind to the red sensation and by the red-blind to the green sensation .
The tables ( p. 237 ) show that there may be considerable differences in the spectral extent of the various colour sensations between individuals , and I have reason to know DR. G. J. BURCH ON CASES OF COLOUR-BLINDNESS .
that they vary in the same individual according to what he has been doing , and also , I am inclined to think , according to his state of health .
Table showing the Extent of the Colour Sensations in Eleven Cases of Normal Vision .
( The wave-lengths are expressed in Angstrom units .
) Red .
Green .
Blue .
Violet .
E A 5665 6060 4775 4985 4280 4470 K S. P A 5720 5910 4760 5040 4410 4615 K M. H. D . . . .
A 5565 5960 4750 5110 4330 4600 K K. H. D A 5460 6040 4800 5130 4270 4550 K G. M A 5560 5965 4500 5270 4230 4730 K A. R. W. . . .
A 5590 6050 4820 5220 4230 4730 K E. C. A. W. . .
A 5630 6230 4780 5210 4210 4520 K R. B. G A 5760 6370 4740 5170 4410 4635 K I. C. B A 5550 6010 4720 5080 4555 4740 K G. J. B A 5360 6200 4735 5210 4570 4620 K S .
A 5790 6070 " 4815 5190 4380 4750 K Table showing the Mean Positions of the Junctions of the Colour Sensations , and the Amount of Overlap .
Red-Green .
Green-Blue .
Blue-Violet .
Junction .
Overlap .
Junction .
Overlap .
Junction .
Overlap .
E 5863 395 4880 105 4375 190 S. P 5815 190 4900 280 4513 205 M. H. D. . . .
5763 395 4930 360 4465 270 K. H. D 5750 580 4965 330 4410 280 G. M 5763 405 4885 770 4480 500 A. R. W. . . .
5820 460 5020 400 4480 500 E. C. A. W. . . .
5930 600 4995 430 4365 310 R. B. G 6065 610 4955 430 4523 225 I. C. B 5780 460 4900 360 4648 185 G. J. B 5780 840 4973 475 4595 .
50 S 5930 280 5003 375 4565 370 Average .
5842 4946 4493 My own case , quoted under my initials , is a good example .
Usually my blue-violet overlap is very large\#151 ; on this occasion it was only 50 Angstrom units .
On the other hand , my red-green overlap was greater than that of any of the others .
Probably it was due to my having had to focus the spectroscope and adjust the light for others before I tested myself , and the effect of fatigue on the blue and violet is so much more persistent than on the red .
But it will be observed that although the extent of the overlap is so greatly reduced , the position of it is not much altered , though it undoubtedly shows somewhat greater fatigue for violet than for blue .
Oases of Colour-blindnkss .
Preliminary Observations .
Three points are brought out strongly by a comparison of the following cases of colour-blindness :\#151 ; 1 .
There seem to be a good many different varieties of colour-blindness .
Theoretically , if there are four independent colour sensations , the total number of possible cases is 15 , viz.\#151 ; ##Normal , possessing . . .
Led , Green , Blue , Violet .
##Lacking one , 33 * . .
Green , blue , violet .
-Y- -Y-'A ' 'A 33 33 ? .
Bed , blue , violet .
* 33 33 . .
Bed , green , violet .
33 33 . . .
Bed , green , blue .
Lacking two , possessing .
Blue , violet .
33 33 . . . .
Green , violet .
# .
33 33 * .
Green , blue .
33 33 * Bed , violet .
# 3 3 33 .
* . .
Bed , blue .
33 33 # Bed , green .
Lacking three , possessing . . .
Bed .
# Blue .
I have met with complete cases of those marked with two asterisks and partial cases of those marked with one .
2 .
It is very seldom that any one colour sensation is totally deficient .
A careful examination will in most cases , though not in all , reveal traces of the sensation in the proper part of the spectrum .
3 .
There seems to be a species of compensation by which , if one colour sensation is absent , the relative sensitiveness of one near it in the spectrum may be increased .
Only in one case have I found any gap in the spectrum , or region of diminished luminosity .
* Amongst the cases described in this paper there are at least two who may be regarded either as having one colour sensation abnormally strong , or three colour sensations unusually weak .
It would almost seem that for the complete characterisation of the colour sensations in some cases , one should specify not only those sensations which are lacking or below the normal , but also those which * This will be described in a future paper .
DR G. J. BURCH ON CASES OF COLOUR-BLINDNESS .
transcend it .
It is , in fact , possible to be colour-blind , though having one colour sensation stronger than it should be .
No. XVII is a case in point .
For convenience of reference , I propose to assign a number to each case of colourblindness described by me .
Nos. I to V will be found in my previous paper.* No. VI.\#151 ; Red-blindness .
This was a patient from the Oxford Eye Hospital , where he had been tested with Holmgren 's wools .
A young man about 20 years old .
Had been apprenticed to a coach-painter , but was found utterly incapable of mixing his paint correctly .
His difficulty seemed to be partly one of education .
Not being able to see colours as they appear to the normal sighted , he had never learned how to interpret the sensations he possessed , and his vocabulary was limited and uncertain .
His examination with the spectroscope was a matter of some difficulty on this account .
Unfortunately , the spectroscope had , unknown to me , been taken to pieces for cleaning and the prisms moved so that the calibration curve was altered .
I am therefore unable in this case to give wave-lengths .
He described the colour of the spectrum at D as " yellow , " t changing to a " darker yellow " in the neighbourhood of C , and ending a little beyond that point .
In the other direction it was yellow " as far as b , where it changed to a " bluish-white , " which about half way between b and F gave place to " blue .
" " Blue " changed to " darker blue " a little before G , and this continued to the end of the violet .
He saw the calcium lines A. 3967 and X 3983 easily , and therefore has the violet sensation .
With regard to blue , he placed the junction of " blue " with " darker blue " at 903 scale before fatigue .
After fatigue with blue , he found it at 870 scale , nearer the blue , and after fatigue with violet , he found it at 975 scale , the reaction being in both cases towards the colour used as stimulus .
This proves him to have the - normal reactions for blue on the violet side .
After fatigue by blue , he found " yellow " extending well beyond F , and after fatigue by green , he found " blue " about half way between F and b , and " bluish-white " extending from that point to b , so that he has the normal reactions for blue on the green side also .
His " yellow " is obviously our green .
He has no red , or so little as to be unrecognisable .
His " blue " is our blue , and is normal ; so is his violet sensation , which he names " darker blue .
" His " bluish-white " is analogous to the orange of the normal sighted , for orange is where the second colour sensation , green , begins to make itself felt under the first , red .
He has no red , but where his first colour sensation , green , which he calls " yellow , " begins to be modified by his second colour sensation , blue , * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 191 , 1899 , pp. 1-34 .
f N.B.\#151 ; Names used by the colour-blind themselves are distinguished by inverted commas .
which he calls by its right name , he is conscious of a difference , to which he gives the name of " bluish-white .
" No. YET .\#151 ; Red-blindness .
A Classical Lecturer .
So far as I know , he was not familiar with spectroscopes , and had no preconceived ideas of the order in which the colours should come .
I began as usual with the red .
This he called " green , " or " a colour lie could not name , " and said it changed to " yellow " near C. He described the change in colour as very slight , and was very uncertain about it .
After working in the region of he placed the junction of " green " with " yellow " close to the sodium lines .
This would indicate that his " green " may he a very faint trace of the red sensation , too weak to do more than slightly modify the tone of the green sensation which he called " yellow .
" To complete the proof , the effect of fatigue by what he called " green " should have been tried , but his eyes became tired before we reached that point .
He found a very noticeable change from " yellow " to " blue-green " about b , which is where blue begins underneath the green .
This answers exactly to the " bluish-white " of the previous case ( No. VI ) , and as has already been pointed out , this change , to a person without the red sensation , would correspond to the change from pure red to orange of normal sight .
After fatigue with blue , this change of hue shifted towards the blue in a quite normal way .
He found another change from " bluey-green " to " blue " a little beyond F , the usual position with persons who have the green sensation strong .
After fatigue with blue , this change of tint also moved farther into the blue .
In the neighbourhood of G he found another change from " blue " to " dark-blue , " but he seemed very uncertain about it .
With daylight he thought it " merely a difference in intensity , " being , I fancy , misled by the dark lines near G , but with the arc-light he said the colour was different .
The bright lines of calcium ( H and K ) were visible to him .
His eyes were easily tired with the light , so that I was not able to continue the examination long enough to get at the complete explanation of his nomenclature of certain colours .
His blue-green junction was quite normal as to the effect on it of physiological fatigue , and as to position , it indicated a strong green sensation .
His spectrum was shortened at the red end , but not so much as in the case of the totally red-blind\#151 ; it reached , in fact , farther than I could trace my own green sensation during artificial red-blindness .
For this reason I think he must possess some traces of a red sensation , and also because of the curious uncertainty he manifested concerning this part of the spectrum .
DR. G. J. BURCH ON CASES OF COLOUR-BLINDNESS .
Our green he ordinarily called " yellow .
" What looked red to me was always either " green " or " a colour I cannot name " to him ; but the colour sometimes called by one name and sometimes by the other after a few minutes ' interval , if he did not know it to be the same .
Bed objects did not strike him as bright coloured , but rather dark .
He generally spoke of them as " green , " but with something about the colour that puzzled him .
He never showed any hesitation about colours of shorter wavelength than D. All this confirms the supposition that he was nearly , but not quite , red-blind .
He had a strong green sensation , and undoubtedly possessed the violet sensation .
Probably a completion of the fatigue experiments would have shown the blue-violet junction to he normal , as the reactions for blue were certainly normal on the green side .
No. VIII.\#151 ; Partial Red-blindness Strong Blue .
Had failed to pass the test at Sandhurst .
Could recognise bright colours , but was not successful with the confusion tests .
On the one hand , he was unable to trace the spectrum quite as far as B , and even after fatigue with green , he placed the " red-green " junction on the red side of the D lines .
When not fatigued , he found " red " change to " green " midway between D and C. The " blue-green " junction he placed about midway between b and F. After fatigue by green , he made " blue " begin at b , and , after fatigue by blue , his " green " sensation extended a little beyond F , hut rather less than more than the average .
His " blue-violet " junction was well marked\#151 ; rather farther towards the violet than the average , but quite normally affected by the fatigue tests .
He was able to trace the spectrum nearly up to H by diffused daylight .
It will be observed that he called all the spectral colours by their correct names .
From the foregoing , I conclude that his violet sensation is normal , few people being able to see up to H save by the direct light of the sun .
His blue sensation is rather stronger than the average .
This is shown both by the position of the junction with violet , and by his tracing the blue as far as the 6 lines .
His green is normal , for it does not reach so far into the blue as the average , and the reason why it extends so far into the red is that the red is deficient .
He may therefore be regarded as partially red-blind , with compensation in the blue .
No. IX.\#151 ; Probably Partial Green-blindness .
An Evening Student at Science Classes .
This case was brought to me when I was away from home .
Only a single-prism spectroscope being available , I was not able to apply the fatigue tests .
VOL. CXCIX.\#151 ; B. 2 I According to his description , the spectrum began with " orange-red , " which became gradually brighter , especially about X 5800 , which he described as " a lighter shade of the same colour .
" The most distinct change was from " reddish-yellow " to " dark purple " at X 5070 .
Farther on this passed into " bluey-purple , " which gradually became darker until it faded away into black .
I subsequently fixed a small reading telescope , magnifying five times in the optic axis , in series with the telescope of the spectroscope .
This arrangement increased the magnifying power five-fold , and reduced the light considerably , so that he completely lost count of what the colours ought to be .
He accordingly called red " reddish-yellow , " which he said got brighter and brighter , without any change of colour that he could identify , until the point above referred to , when it suddenly became " pink .
" Green he called " yellow , " and blue " pink .
" I came to the conclusion that he possessed a weak green sensation and a strong blue sensation .
I could not test for violet , for lack of proper light .
Probably the reason why he spoke of spectral red as " orange-red " or " reddish-yellow " was that , being nearly green-blind , oranges would be to him the same colour as vermilion is to us , and that his idea of red was derived mainly from red flowers , many of which contain blue , to which he was very sensitive .
No. X.\#151 ; Probably Partial Green-blindness .
An Evening Student at Science Classes .
This case was brought to me on the same evening as No. IX and tested with the same spectroscope .
Both he and the previous case confused reds and greens , and pink appeared a dirty colour to them , what No. IX called " pink " being in reality a greenish blue .
In neither case did the spectrum seem shortened in the red .
According to No. X , the spectrum changed to " yellow " at X 6700 .
It became " full yellow " at X5500 , and was " pure blue " at X5070 , there being a transition colour that he could not easily describe between " yellow " and " blue " from X 5335 to X 5070 .
After X5070 there was no farther change of tint .
Farther tests of both this and the previous case are much to be desired , but both struck me as cases of partial green-blindness .
No. XI.\#151 ; Partially Green-blind , with Strong Blue Sensation .
An Undergraduate , not Scientific , brought to me by one of the Physiological Students .
Confused pale pinks and greens , and also pale tints of mauve and azure blue with pale tints of green and brown .
DE .
G. J. BUECH ON CASES OF COLOUE-BLINDNESS .
His description of the spectrum was interesting , because he called the same part of it by different names on its being shown him a second time .
According to him , the spectrum began with " orange , " passing to " yellow " at about C. " Yellow " changed to " green''near D , and then passed through " some other colour " to " mauve " or " pink " close to the lines .
A few minutes later , not knowing he was being shown the same thing , he said the " indefinable colour " passed into a " watery blue .
" On another day , the part he had previously said was " indefinable " he pronounced " muddy green " \#151 ; the " watery blue " he now called " pink , " and the part he had described as " yellow " he called " green .
" The fatigue tests showed him to have all four colour sensations , hut not #of the same relative intensity as most people .
The change from red to green was much less noticeable to him than that occurring where most people see none , viz. , near the b line .
This was evidently the overlap of his blue and red sensations .
It was affected by fatigue in a quite normal manner , as was also the boundary between blue and violet .
But he had some difficulty in making observations on the overlap of green and red , and on the overlap of green and blue , both of which seemed ill defined to him .
Owing to the confusion of terms used by him in describing these colours , I was not able to complete the fatigue tests in regard to them before it was necessary for him to leave .
So far as I could make out , his " red " is the faint part of the pure spectral red , and his " orange " and " yellow " the brighter and brightest parts of it .
His " green " occurs where we see yellowish green , and his " indefinable colour " or " some other colour " being in the place of pure green .
His " mauve " or " pink " is our blue-green , his " greeny blue " is our blue , and his " true blue " is our violet .
Judging by my own experience during partial artificial green-blindness , 1 should say that his mental impression of the colour he calls " green " is that of a pale yellow-brown , like yellow ochre mixed with white , or a yellow leaf in autumn .
He has the blue sensation strong , the violet about normal , the green very weak , and the red perhaps slightly so .
No. XII.\#151 ; Partially Green-blind , very Strong Blue Sensation .
A Physiologist , fully aware of his peculiarity and desirous of investigating it by my method .
With Holmgren 's wools , he confused together greens , greys , and bronze-browns .
He gave the following names to the colours of the spectrum - " Bed , " changing to " yellow " at X 5910 , then " green " with a well-marked change at X 5170 which he called " grey .
" At X 4955 there was another though less definite change , to which he gave the name of " purply .
" Beyond this came " blue , " and 2 i 2 finally between X4120 and X4100 there was a vague but unmistakeable change to " blue with crimson .
" The interesting point about this case was that he saw all the colour-changes of the normal sighted , and in addition , one that is peculiar to the green-blind , namely that at b ; but his idea of the relative importance of these colour-changes was abnormal .
Thus , he considered the change to yellow at X 5910 quite unimportant , hut that at b , which he called " grey , " and which is situated in what to most people is the very middle of the green where there is no change , was to him very strongly marked .
His idea of " green " was associated with that part of the spectrum which we call yellowish-green , and the colour that he called " purply " corresponds with the blue-green of normal vision .
But it must not be forgotten that he uses the word " green " in a totally different sense from that in which it is employed by the normal sighted .
To him it means that the sum of the sensations excited by this part of the spectrum equals the sum of the sensations excited by the leaves of plants .
Now in the spectrum of chlorophyll there is red to a notable extent , but blue and violet are deficient .
In the spectrum , as he sees it , with the green sensation greatly reduced , there is , beyond b , excess of blue .
This part , therefore , cannot represent green plants , because he misses the red in them .
To the normal sighted the green predominates to such an extent in the neighbourhood of b , and in the colour of the grass , that the blue on the one side and the red on the other , underlying the green , are quite unnoticeable until some distance on either side of b. And I found during my own experiments on artificial green-blindness that green leaves appeared to me very much the colour of the part of the spectrum he called " green , " not as I see it now , but as I saw it during green-blindness .
The colour that he called " purply " seems to correspond with the blue-green of normal vision .
He described a skein of wool of a purple shade of grey as being " the colour of ivy leaves a little dusty .
" His colour " blue with crimson " was obviously our violet , but not reaching so far into the blue as is usually the case .
His red-green junction varied very little after fatigue with red , and only moderately after fatigue with green .
This generally indicates a weak green sensation .
To the normal eye , except under artificial colour-blindness , there is seldom any change at all at X 5170 , where he found the most striking change .
The effect of fatigue by red light was to shift this colour-change to X 5350 , while , after exposure to blue light , he found it at X 5010 .
Bearing in mind that I used much stronger light for fatiguing my own eye , # these numbers agree very well with those obtained by myself while artificially green-blind .
Undoubtedly his " grey " was the overlap of red with blue , which to ordinary persons is completely masked by the green sensation .
His green-blue junction was affected in the ordinary way by fatigue , but it was not * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 191 , p. 13 .
DR. G. J. BURCH ON CASES OF COLOUR-BLINDNESS .
at all well marked\#151 ; agreeing in this respect with* my own experience during partial artificial green-blindness .
His blue-violet junction was so ill defined that I could not get reliable measurements of the influence of fatigue , but he undoubtedly has the violet sensation .
The red lines of potassium were easily seen by him .
Conclusions.\#151 ; He possesses a strong red colour sensation and very strong blue , with very weak green , and violet of perhaps normal intensity , the unusual position of the blue-violet junction being due to the extra strength of the blue sensation .
No. XIII.\#151 ; Red and Blue Strong , Green and Violet Weak .
A Man of Culture .
Not specially Scientific .
When tested with Holmgren 's wools , he confused fawn colour with dove colour , pink with pale cerulean blue , lilac grey with green-grey , etc. Using the Marlborough spectroscope , high eye-piece , arc-light , he gave the following description of the spectrum :\#151 ; " Red " changes to a " nondescript colour " a little past the lithium / 3-line , at A 6000 .
* This changes to " green " close to b at A. 5180 , the " purest green " being at A. 4845 not far from F. " Green " changes to " blue " at A4830 , but he was doubtful about this .
Some time later he repeated this description with the following results :\#151 ; The alteration of the appearance of the spectrum about A 6000 is very vague and indefinite , and there is no marked change of colour until X 5200\#151 ; a little way past E\#151 ; where " red " changes to " green .
" ( It should be observed that this second time he omitted the " nondescript colour " and traced " red " right up to " green .
" This illustrates one of the difficulties met with in examining cases of colour-blindness .
) On farther inquiry he repeated that there was no striking colour-change until A 5200 .
" Green " changes to " blue " at A 4830\#151 ; exactly the same as before\#151 ; and " blue " changes to " indigo"\#151 ; his own name for it\#151 ; at A 4660 , i.e. , some little distance short of the blue line of strontium .
He seemed in doubt as to what name to give to the colour between A 5200 and A 4830 .
He called it " green " if he thought it ought to be green , but after looking at violet light he said it was blue .
Sometimes , when he did not know what to expect , he called it " pink , " and at other times " grey .
" He called the colour to the red side of E " yellow " when fatigued slightly for red , and the spectrum on the other side of E he called " green " when fatigued for blue .
Fatigue tests showed his " yellow " to be little more than a change in the intensity of the red , for after red he found " yellow " at A 6250 and after green he found " yellow " at A 6255 .
After red he put the " green-yellow " junction at A 5295 .
24(5 DR. G. J. BURCH ON CASES OF COLOUR-BLINDNESS .
There was not enough of his green sensation to fatigue green without touching red .
An attempt to do so only fatigued the red , which underlay the green , more than it did the green , but the green could be fatigued without affecting the blue .
Thus , after green at b , his " blue " began at X4970 , and after blue his " green " began at X 4770 .
Summary.\#151 ; His first striking colour-change is where red meets blue , and his next where green ends to the normal person .
He must , therefore , possess the green sensation , though only in a slight degree .
I noticed in my own case during artificial partial green-blindness the same inability to determine the exact limits of " yellow , " the changes of which , however , keep pace with those of the " green , " as the effect wears off .
He evidently has the red sensation very strong , but violet , though undoubtedly present , is relatively weak .
The case may , therefore , be regarded as one of strong red and strong blue with weak green and weak violet .
No. XIV.\#151 ; A Weak Green Strong Violet .
An Undergraduate , not Scientific .
He placed the " best yellow " at X 5480 .
This is much farther into the green than usual , the average for the 11 cases of normal vision given in this paper being X 5840 and that for the 70 persons described in my previous paper being X 5730 .
After " yellow " he said the next change of colour was to " pink " at X 5185 .
This corresponds with the mean position of the overlap between blue and red , X 5205 , during artificial green-blindness .
After " pink " he said the colour changed to " blue " at X 4970 .
The average for the blue-green junction among the 70 normal persons was X 5005 , and for the 11 selected normal cases it was X 494(5 .
Beyond this he said " full blue " changed to " darker blue " at X 4400 .
The average position of the blue-violet junction for the 11 selected cases being X 4493 , and there being several of them quite near X 4400 , there was a possibility that this " darker blue " might be the violet sensation .
On the other hand , it might be merely the falling off of intensity in the blue .
Accordingly , I fatigued his eye with blue of X4790 .
After this he found " darker blue " at X 4600 , and traced it to a little beyond K. He could see IT with the utmost ease .
I now fatigued him with the colour he called " darker blue , " i.e. , violet , and he found " blue " at X 4230 , saying he had gone too far , having come upon it sooner than he expected .
Upon a second trial he found " blue " at X4190 .
Now the mean between X 4600 and X4190 is X 4395 , which is almost exactly where he placed the " blue"\#151 ; " darker blue " junction when the eye was not fatigued .
Trusting merely to the names given to the changes of colour , one might well have DR. G. J. BURCH ON CASES OF COLOUR-BLINDNESS .
said that for this man there was no separate sensation of violet .
But the fatigue reaction , which is a purely physiological test independent of language , shows that his " darker blue " was normal violet.* After fatigue with blue , I asked him to find " pink " or " green .
" He missed it altogether the first time , going straight past the green into the beginning of the red .
On the second and third attempts he stopped at X 4900 and A. 4875 , but seemed unsatisfied , saying he had stopped too soon .
As X4840 is the average limit of the green for the 70 persons , and for the 11 selected cases there is not one beyond X 4820 , he was distinctly below the normal in the extent of his green sensation on this side , and greatly below the normal as regards the intensity of it .
His red sensation extended to a little beyond X7606 .
He could see Fraunhofer A easily .
His green sensation appears to be weak , and his violet sensation somewhat strong .
No. XY.\#151 ; Probably almost Blue-blind .
A Man of Culture , but with no Special Knowledge of Spectroscopy .
This case was in some respects unusual .
The spectrum was not shortened , and in fact , extended farther into the red beyond A. and into the violet beyond K than with most normal-sighted persons .
But his description of the colours of the spectrum was abnormal .
It was as follows :\#151 ; " There are two principal colour-changes , namely , from red to green ( at X 5905 ) and from green to blue ( at X 4810 ) , of which the latter is the more definite .
" So far , both of these agree sufficiently well with the normal junction of red with green and the effective end of the green for him to pass as normal sighted .
His peculiarities appeared in the more detailed description .
From A to B he called " red .
" Beyond B it began to be tinged with " yellow , " becoming " full yellow " at X6130 .
The sodium lines he called a " gorgeous yellow , " but could nob detect any rapid change of tint on each side of them , though to the majority of people the change is more rapid here than in any other part of the spectrum .
At X 5185 he said " yellow " changed to " green , " and on being asked to place the pointer so that there should be " yellow " to the left and " green " to the right of it , he set it finally at X 5035 .
During artificial green-blindness , I found the mean position of the red-blue junction to be X5241 when the eye was fixed on the junction , and it was only by fatigue with blue that I brought the red as far as X 5040 .
Obviously , therefore , must be regarded as the utmost limit of the red rather than the junction of red with blue .
In other words , blue , if present , is weak .
A little short of the F line at X 4910 he said green changed to " deep pink .
" At * Compare No. XV , page 248 , line 17 .
X 4830 he called the colour " a mangy blue , " and he put the beginning of violet at X 4370 .
I tried to find out whether the position of this colour he called " pink " would be affected by fatigue .
After the colour he called " green " he missed the " pink " altogether , coming immediately to " mangy blue .
" After light from E he found " pink " at X5145 , and after light from D he found it at X5070 .
This indicates that one constituent of his " pink " is the green sensation , since the " pink " was most powerfully affected by the light which excites the green sensation most strongly .
After fatigue by blue from midway between F and G , he found " pink " at X 4890 , a trifling change compared with that effected by green light .
The possible significance of this is seen on examining the effect of fatigue on the junction of the colours be called " mangy blue " and " violet .
" Before the eye was fatigued he placed this junction at X4370 .
After fatigue by blue he found the " violet " at X 4380 , i.e. , a trifle nearer the blue , but after fatigue by violet he found " mangy blue " at X 4400 .
That is to say , the extent of what he called " mangy blue " was lessened by fatigue with violet instead of being increased as it would be if it corresponded with the " blue " of those for whom blue and violet are separate sensations.'* It seems probable , therefore , that the blue sensation in his case is lacking or nearly so , and that his " pink " is a mixture of green and violet .
Assuming this to be the case , his description of the spectrum may be interpreted as follows :\#151 ; A to B , " red " .
... ... ... ... . .
B to b , various shades of " yellow " .
b to near F , " green " ... ... ... ... Beyond F , " pink " ... ... ... ... ... .
X 4830 to X 4370 , " mangy blue " .
Beyond this " violet " ... ... ... ... Bed .
Bed + Green .
Green .
Green -j- Violet .
Violet with trace of blue .
Violet .
As it is probable that the maximum of the violet sensation occurs somewhere about X4360\#151 ; at least , it would seem so from the 11 selected cases of normal colour vision\#151 ; the portion from X4830 to X4370 would be markedly less luminous unless it were occupied to some extent by traces of a blue sensation , not strong enough , perhaps , to give the fatigue reactions properly , but sufficient to destroy the purity of the tint , as the term used in connection with this part of the spectrum seemed to imply .
* Compare No. XIV , p. 246 , bottom .
DR G. J. BURCH ON CASES OF COLOUR-BLINDNESS .
No. XVI.\#151 ; Violet-b A Man of Culture .
Not Scientific .
He was not tried with Holmgren 's wools owing to lack of time , but was said by his family to confuse blues and violets .
He was tested with the Marlborough spectroscope , high-power eye-piece , and arc-light .
His description of the spectrum was as follows :\#151 ; " Red " changes to " Green " at X 5920 , " Green " changes to " Blue " at X 5180 , " Blue " changes to Violet at X 4470 , but the blue-violet change was very indefinite , and he called violet sometimes " a darker blue " and sometimes " purple " if taken unawares .
Fatigue for 30 seconds with different colours , using the same intensity and width of slit , gave the following results :\#151 ; After red , " green " was found at X 6280 .
After green , " blue " was found at X 5230 .
After blue , " violet " was found at X4460 .
End of spectrum = X 4160 .
The spectrum being short in the violet , it was necessary to fatigue with the most refrangible rays he could see that were bright enough , viz. , X 4200 .
After X 4200 for 30 seconds he missed his so-called " blue-violet " junction altogether , passing on to X 4920 , i.e. , the change from blue to green for normal persons .
On trying a second time he found a change , which he called " the end of purple , " at X4810 .
( Note that , in some of the 11 normal cases , green is met with at this point .
) After blue midway between F and G , he found " green " at X4980 .
After green , he found " red " at X 5690 , and , as he was able to see the potassium line in the flame spectrum , his red must extend to X7680 .
His green-blue junction is not quite so far in the blue as usual , indicating either a rather weak green or a strong blue , but , as the red-green junction is normal , and , after fatigue of red , " green " is found at X 6280 , i.e. , well towards C , it seems more probable that the blue is strong and the green normal .
The interesting point about this case is the shortening of the spectrum in the violet .
He was absolutely unable to see the bright lines of calcium X 3967 and X 3933 , although to myself they were intensely bright .
The visible spectrum for him seemed to end almost abruptly at X 4160 , for there were two groups of bright lines in the arc spectrum not far apart , and both of them equally bright , one of which he could see , but not the other , even when I brought it VOL. cxcix .
\#151 ; b , 2 K on to the pointer , so that he knew exactly where to look .
( I believe these to have been the iron lines A. 4175 , 4174 , and 4173 , which he could see , and the group X 4158 , 4157 , 4156 , which he could not see .
It will be noticed that this is almost exactly the point to which I was able to trace the blue sensation when I had rendered myself temporarily violet-blind .
) Moreover , the fatigue tests give the same indication .
His " after blue , violet " = X 4460 is not very far from his " blue-violet " junction without fatigue , viz. , X 4470 , but his " after violet , blue " = X4810 , is farther from the violet than the normal junction , indicating that we are dealing with a change of intensity rather than the overlap of another colour sensation .
I consider , therefore , that this case is one of violet blindness , with , perhaps , an extra strong blue .
No. XVII.\#151 ; Abnormally Strong Green .
A Swiss Girl of about 18 , studying Art .
Found to have a difficulty in Matching Colours .
This was an interesting case , but I had only a short time to examine it in , and for instrumental reasons , was not able to get measurements in wave-lengths .
She could not trace the spectrum nearly so far , either in the red or the violet , as 1 could , but the fatigue tests showed her to possess all four colour sensations .
They were not , however , normal in relative extent .
The arc-light was not available , and it was a very dull day , so that I was only able to use a low power , and to compare her impressions with my own , under identical conditions .
After fatigue by red , she found " green " much farther in the red than I did , well beyond the lithium / 3-line .
This is , of course , within the known limits of green , but it would have required a much more powerful red light to make me red-blind enough to see it there .
On the other hand , fatigue by green brought her " blue " barely half way from F to b , whereas fatigue by the same light for the same time brought mine nearly up to b. Fatigue by blue enabled her to trace green a good distance beyond F , but not quite so far as I could after the same fatigue .
Her blue-violet junction was very indefinite , and the light was so bad that very little reliance could be placed on the readings obtained .
Such as it was , the examination went to show that in her case the green sensation predominated over the rest , that the blue sensation came next , and that the red and violet were both so very much weaker as to produce very little impression , except when unmixed with other colours .
No. XVIII.\#151 ; Unusually Blue .
A Physiological Student .
He placed the junction of " red " with " green " at X6060 , and that of " green " with " blue " at X 5150 .
As this is usually found near the F line X 4862 , there was DR. G. J. BURCH ON CASES OF COLOUR-BLINDNESS .
evidently something abnormal .
The junction of " blue " with " violet " he found at X 4360\#151 ; a quite normal position .
Fatigue by red for 30 seconds produced only a small effect , bringing the " green " to X 6070 , but after fatigue by green he found " blue " at X 5330 and even at X 5470\#151 ; which is unusually far into the red side of the green .
After blue he found " violet " at X 4440 .
He could see the H and K lines easily .
Fatigue by violet did not cause the " blue " to reach beyond X 4360 , but this may have been the fault of the arc-lamp , which was burning badly and did not give much violet light .
After fatigue by blue he missed the " green " altogether , stopping at about X 5400 as the first change of colour , i.e. , well within the range of the red .
But on making a second attempt he found " green " at X 4810 .
After fatigue by green he found " red " at X 5390 .
He could see the red line of the potassium spectrum .
He must therefore possess the red and the violet sensations , with either a weak green or a strong blue .
I incline to think the latter is the case , because he placed the red-green boundary where it would be for a green of quite normal strength , and the green-blue boundary after fatigue by blue , when found was quite in the normal position , only it was easily passed over .
This would indicate a strong blue rather than a weak green .
He was only partially colour-blind .
My thanks are due to Mr. It .
W. Doyne for some of these cases of colour-blindness , as well as for opportunities of seeing cases of abnormal vision not included in this paper ; to Mr. W. W. Fisher for the continued loan of the large spectroscope from the Marlborough Collection ; and to Professor Gotch , in whose laboratory a great deal of the work was done , for the special opportunities he has given me of interesting his students in this subject and obtaining through them , not only instances of colourblindness , but a very large number of examples of normal colour sensation .
The expenses incidental to this research have been defrayed out of a grant from the Boyal Society Government Grant fund .
2 k 2

