The following papers were read , viz. ยง 1 .
" On the import and office of the Lymphatic Vessels .
" By Robert Willis , M.D. Communicated by John Bostock , M.D. , F.R.S. That absorption is the special office of the lymphatic vessels was , until very lately , a universally received doctrine in physiology : but it is now admitted that if they exercise this faculty , it can be only to an inconsiderable extent ; and physiologists of high authority have even denied that they possess any absorbing power at all .
This last is the opinion of Magendie , in which the author concurs .
So lately as 1841 , Rudolph Wagner asserted that " neither anatomical nor physiological considerations render any satisfactory account of the import and office of the lymphatics , " which thus , shorn of their ancient office , were repudiated as a superfluous apparatus in the animal mechanism .
The grand organs of absorption the author believes to be the veins ; and a principal object of his paper is to point out the mode in which they acquire this remarkable faculty .
The principal condition which this faculty of imbibition impiies , is a difference in density between the contents of the vessels which are to absorb , and the contents of those which furnish the matter to be absorbed .
If the several constituent materials of the body , both fluid and solid , were to remain in the same unaltered state , both chemically and physically , there could be no interchange among them : in order that mutual penetration maj* take place between two elements , the one must differ from the other : that which is designed to absorb must be , with relation to that which is to be absorbed , more dense ; that is , must contain a smaller quantity of water in proportion to its solid ingredients .
For the continuance of the delicate processes concerned in the access and removal of the nutrient fluids , it is necessary that a difference should be established between the arterial and the venous blood in respect of density .
This purpose the author conceives is accomplished by the abstraction from the former of a portion of its water by the sudoriparous glands of the skin on the one hand , and by the lymphatic vessels on the other .
That the separation of the lymph from the blood is calculated to increase its density , is proved by its chemical analysis ; lymph containing from 96 to 97 per cent. of water , and blood from 77 to 82 per cent. The author regards this separation of lymph from the blood as the result of a purely vital process of the same nature as that by which the saliva and the watery portion of the urine are secreted from the circulating mass .
He considers that his views are supported by the anatomical distribution of the lymphatic system : for , on the principle that organs are found in the vicinity of the places where their office is wanted , the office of the lyphatics must be general , inasmuch as the system is general .
These vessels may , in faet , be regarded as the essential element of an universally dis ?
tributed gland .
The mode in which the lymphatics are finally connected with the blood-vessels appears also to indicate that the object in view is to keep their watery fluid separate from the blood as long as possible ; for , as is well known , they do not transfer their contents into the neighbouring veins , but pour their whole fluid into the superior vena cava at the moment it is about to enter into the heart .
The remarkable manner in which the lymphatic system is developed in some of the lower tribes of animals , whose bodies are encased in an impervious horny covering , such as turtles , lizards and serpents , is adduced in further corroboration of the author 's views .
He regards the serous membranes as contrivances for the accommodation of a great number of lymphatics ; and the intimate con ?
nexion which the function of these vessels has with the life and nutrition of internal organs he thinks is shown by the remarkable amount of disturbance conscquent on infiammation , or other morbid condition of serous membranes .
Finally , the author adverts to the influence which the difference of endosmotic capability engendered by the abstraction of a certain amount of water in the course of the circulation , ( first between the blood corpuscles and the plasma in which they swim , and then between the liquor sanguinis and the containing channels , ) must have on the capillary circulation , which he conceives it is calculated to facilitate .

