1880 .
] Mr. W. Crookes .
On a Fourth State of Matter .
June 10 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Dr. John Attfield , Dr. Clifford Allbutt , Rev. William Henry Dal-linger , Mr. William Turner Thiselton Dyer , Lient.-Col .
Henry Haversham Godwin-Austen , Prof. David Edward Hughes , Mr. Henry M. Jeffery , Mr. J. Eletcher Moulton , and Dr. John Rae were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On a Fourth State of Matter , " in a letter to the Secretary .
By W. Crookes , F.R.S. Received May 17 , 1880 .
7 , Kensington Park Gardens , London , W. , April 29 , 1880 .
Dear Professor Stokes , In introducing the discussion on Mr. Spottiswoode and Mr. Moulton 's paper on the " Sensitive State of Vacuum Discharges , " at the meeting of the Royal Society on April 15th , Dr. De la Rue , who occupied the chair , good-naturedly challenged me to substantiate my statement that there is such a thing as a fourth or ultra-gaseous state of matter .
I had no time then to enter fully into the subject ; nor was I prepared , on the spur of the moment , to marshal all the facts and reasons which have led me to this conclusion .
But as I find that many other scientific men besides Dr. De la Rue are in doubt as to whether matter has been showh to exist in a state beyond that of gas , I will now endeavour to substantiate my position .
I will commence by explaining what seems to me to be the constitution of matter in its three states of solid , liquid , and gas .
I. First as to Solids These are composed of discontinuous molecules , separated from each other by a space which is relatively large\#151 ; possibly enormous\#151 ; in comparison with the diameter of the central nucleus we call molecule .
These molecules , themselves built up of , are governed by certain forces .
Two of these forces I will here refer to\#151 ; attraction and motion .
Attraction when exerted at sensible distances is known as gravitation , but when the distances are molecular it is called adhesion and cohesion .
Attraction appears to be independent of absolute temperature ; it increases as the distance between the 2 l 2 470 Mr. W. Crookes .
On a Fourth State of Matter .
[ June 10 , molecules diminishes ; and were there no other counteracting force the result would he a mass of molecules in actual contact , with no molecular movement whatever\#151 ; a state of things beyond our conception____ a state , too , which would probably result in the creation of something that , according to our present views , would not be matter .
This force of cohesion is counterbalanced by the movements of the individual molecules themselves , movements varying directly with the temperature , increasing and diminishing in amplitude as the tempera , ture rises and falls .
The molecules in solids do not travel from one part to another , but possess adhesion and retain fixity of position about their centres of oscillation .
Matter , as we know it , has so high an absolute temperature that the movements of the molecules are large in comparison with their diameter , for the mass must be able to bear a reduction of temperature of nearly 300 ' C. before the amplitude of the molecular excursions would vanish .
The state of solidity therefore\#151 ; the state which we are in the habit of considering par excellence as that of matter\#151 ; is merely the effect on our senses of the motion of the discrete molecules among themselves .
Solids exist of all consistences , from the hardest metal , the most elastic crystal , down to thinnest jelly .
A perfect solid would have no viscosity , i.e. , when rendered discontinuous or divided by the forcible passage of a harder solid , it would not close up behind and again become continuous .
In solid bodies the cohesion varies according to some unknown factor which we call chemical , constitution ; hence each kind of solid matter requires raising to a different temperature before the oscillating molecules lose their fixed position with reference to one another .
At this point , varying in different bodies through a very wide range of temperature , the solid becomes liquid .
II .
In liquids the force of cohesion is very much reduced , and the adhesion or the fixity of position of the centres of oscillation of the molecules is destroyed .
When artificially heated , the inter-molecular movements increase in proportion as the temperature rises , until at last cohesion is broken down , and the molecules fly off into space with enormous velocities .
Liquids possess the property of viscosity\#151 ; that is to say , they offer a certain opposition to the passage of solid bodies ; at the same time they cannot permanently resist such opposition , however slight , if continuously applied .
Liquids vary in consistency from the hard , brittle , apparently solid pitch , to the lightest and most ethereal liquid capable of existing at any particular temperature .
The state of liquidity , therefore , is due to inter-molecular motions of a larger and more tumultuous character than those which characterise the solid state .
III .
In gases the molecules fly about in every conceivable direction , 1880 ] Mr. W. Crookes .
On a Fourth Slate of Matter .
471 with constant collisions and enormous and constantly varying velocities , and their mean free path is sufficiently great to release them from the force of adhesion .
Being free to move , the molecules exert pressure in all directions , and were it not for gravitation they would fly off into apace .
The gaseous state remains so long as the collisions continue to be almost infinite in number , and of inconceivable irregularity .
The state of gaseity , therefore , is pre-eminently a state dependent on collisions .
A given space contains millions of millions of molecules in rapid movement in all directions , each molecule having millions of encounters in a second .
In such a case , the length of the mean free path of the molecules is exceedingly small compared with the dimensions of the containing vessel , and the properties which constitute the ordinary gaseous state of matter , which depend upon constant collisions , are observed .
What , then , are these molecules ?
Take a single lone molecule in space .
Is it solid , liquid , or gas ?
Solid it cannot be , because the idea of solidity involves certain properties which are absent in the isolated molecule .
In fact , an isolated molecule is an inconceivable entity , whether we try , like Newton , to visualize it as a little hard spherical body , or with Boscovich and Faraday , to regard it as a centre of force , or accept Sir William Thomson 's vortex atom .
But if the individual molecule is not solid , d fortiori it cannot be regarded as a liquid or gas , for these states are even more due to inter-molecular collisions than is the solid state .
The individual molecules , therefore , must be classed by themselves in a distinct state or category .
The same reasoning applies to two or to any number of contiguous molecules , provided their motion is arrested or controlled , so that no collisions occur between them ; and even supposing this aggregation of isolated non-colliding molecules to be bodily transferred from one part of space to another , that kind of movement would not thereby cause this molecular collocation to assume the properties of gas ; a molecular wind may still be supposed to consist of isolated molecules , in the same way as the discharge from a mitrailleuse consists ol isolated bullets .
Matter in the fourth state is the ultimate result of gaseous expansion .
By great rarefaction the free path of the molecules is made so long that the hits in a given time may be disregarded in comparison to the misses , in which case the average molecule is allowed to obey its own motions or laws without interference ; and if the mean free path is comparable to the dimensions of the containing vessel , the properties which constitute gaseity are reduced to a minimum , and the matter then becomes exalted to an ultra-gaseous state .
But the same condition of things will be produced if by any means we can take a portion of gas , and by some extraneous force infuse order into the apparently disorderly jostling of the molecules in every 472 Mr. W. Crookes .
On a Fourth State of Matter .
[ June 10 , direction , by coercing them into a methodical rectilinear movement This I have shown to be the case in the phenomena which cause the movements of the radiometer , and I have rendered such motion visible in my later researches on the negative discharge in vacuum tubes .
In the one case the heated lamp-black and in the other the electrically excited negative pole supplies the force majeure which entirely or partially changes into a rectilinear motion the irregular vibration in all directions ; and according to the extent to which this onward movement has replaced the irregular motions which constitute the essence of the gaseous condition , to that extent do I consider that the molecules have assumed the condition of radiant matter .
Between the third and the fourth states there is no sharp line of demarcation , any more than there is between the solid and liquid states , or the liquid and gaseous states ; they each merge insensibly one into the other .
In the fourth state properties of matter which exist even in the third state are shown directly , whereas in the state of gas they are only shown indirectly , by viscosity and so forth .
The ordinary laws of gases are a simplification of the effects arising from the properties of matter in the fourth state ; such a simplification is only permissible when the mean length of path is small compared with the dimensions of the vessel .
For simplicity 's sake we make abstraction of the individual molecules , and feign to our imagination continuous matter of which the fundamental properties\#151 ; such as pressure varying as the density , and so forth\#151 ; are ascertained by experiment .
A gas is nothing more than an assemblage of molecules contemplated from a simplified point of view .
When we deal with phenomena in which we are obliged to contemplate the molecules individually , we must not speak of the assemblage as gas .
These considerations lead to another and curious speculation .
The molecule\#151 ; intangible , invisible , and hard to be conceived\#151 ; is the only true matter , and that which we call matter is nothing more than the effect upon our senses of the movements of molecules , or , as John Stuart Mill expresses it , " a permanent possibility of sensation .
" The space covered by the motion of molecules has no more right to be called matter than the air traversed by a rifle bullet can be called lead .
From this point of view , then , matter is but a mode of motion ; at the absolute zero of temperature the inter-molecular movement would stop , and although something retaining the properties of inertia and weight would remain , matter , as we know it , would cease to exist .
Believe me , Dear Professor Stokes , Very sincerely yours , WILLIAM CROOKES .

