The reading of a paper , entitled , " Observations on the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy , and of other parts of Lochaber , with an attempt to prove that they are of Marine Origin .
" By Charles Darwin , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. , Sec. Geological Society , was resumed and concluded .
The author premises a brief description of the parallel roads , shelves , or lines , as they have been indefinitely called , which are most conspicuous in Glen Roy and the neighbouring valleys , referring for more detailed accounts to those given by Sir Thomas Lauder Dick , in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edin ?
burgh , and by Dr. Macculloch in those of the Geological Society of London .
Both these geologists endeavour to explain the formation of these shelves on the hypothesis of their resulting from depositions at the margin of lakes , which had formerly existed at those levels .
The author , however , shows that this hypothesis is inadmissible , from the insuperable difficulties opposed to any conceivable mode of the construction and removal , at successive periods , of several barriers of immense size , whether placed at the mouths of the separate glens , or at more distant points .
He does not , however , propose the alternative , that the beaches , if not deposited by lakes , must of necessity have been formed by channels of the sea , because he deems it more satisfactory to prove , from independent phenomena , that a sheet of water , gradually subsiding from the height of the upper shelves to the present level of the sea , occupied for long periods not only the glens of Lochaber , but the greater number , if not all the valleys of that part of Scotland ; and that this water must have been that of the sea .
Itis argued by the author , that the fluctuating element must have been the land , from the ascertained fact of the land rising in one part , and at the same time sinking in another ; and therefore , that this change of level in Scotland , attested as it is by marine remains being found at considerable heights both on the eastern and wrestern coasts , implies the elevation of the land , and not the subsidence of the surrounding waters .
The author next shows , that in all prolonged upward movements of this kind , it might be predicted , both from the analogy of volcanic action , and from the occurrence of lines of escarpment rising one above the other in certain regions , that in the action of the subterranean impulses there would be intervals of rest .
On the hypothesis that the land was subjected to these conditions , it appears that its surface would have been modeled in a manner exactly similar , even in its minute details , to the existing structure of the valleys in Lochaber .
Considering that he has thus established his theory , the author pro ?
ceeds to remove the objections which might be urged against its truth , derived from the non-extension of the shelves , and the ab ?
sense of organic remains at great altitudes .
He then shows how various details respecting the structure of the glens of Lochaber , such as the extent of corrosion of the solid rock , the quantity of shingle , the numerous levels at which water must have remained , the forms of the heads of the valley , where the streams divide , and especially their relation with the shelves , and the succession of terraces near the mouth of Glen Spean , are all explicable on the suppo ?
sition that the valleys had become occupied by arms of a sea which had been subject to tides , and which had gradually subsided during the rising of the land ; two conditions which could not be fulfilled in any lake .
From the attentive consideration bestowed by the author on these several and independent steps of the argument , he regards the truth of the theory of the marine origin of the parallel roads of Lochaber ( a theory , of which the foundation stone may be said to have been laid by the important geological researches of Mr. Lyell , establishing the fact of continents having slowly emerged from beneath the sea ) as being sufliciently demonstrated .
The author states , in the concluding part of his paper , the following as being the chief points which receive illustration from the examination of the district of Lochaber by Sir Thomas Lauder Dick , Dr. Macculloch , and himself .
It appears that nearly the whole of the water-worn materials in the valleys of this part of Scotland were left , as they now exist , by the slowly retiring waters of the sea ; and the principal action of the rivers since that period has been to remove such deposits ; and when this had been effected , to excavate a wall-sided gorge in the solid rock .
Throughout this entire district , every main , and most of the lesser inequalities of surface are due , primarily to the elevating forces , and , secondarily , to the modeling power of successive beach-lines .
The ordinary alluvial action has been exceedingly insignihcant ; and even moderately sized streams have worn much less deeply into the solid rock thun might have been anticipated , during the vast period which must have elapsed since the sea was on a level with the upper shelves : even the steep slopes of turf over large spaces , and the bare surface of certain rocks , having been perfectly preserved during the same lapse of time .
The elevation of this part of Scotland to the amount of at least 1278 feet was extremely gradual , and was interrupted by long intervals of rest .
It took place either during the so called " crratic block pe ?
riod , " or afterwards ; and it is probable that the erratic blocks were transported during the quiet formation of the shelves .
One of these was found at an altitude of 2200 feet above the present level of the sea .
The most extraordinary fact is , that a large tract of country was elevated to a great height , so equably , that the ancient beachlines retain the same curvature , or nearly so , which they had when forming the margin of the convex surface of the ancient waters .
The inferences drawn by the author from these facts , and which he corroborates by other evidence , are that a large area must have been uplifted , and that its rise was effected by a slight change in the convex form of the fluid matter on which the crust of the earth rests ; and therefore that the fluidity of the former is sufficiently perfect to allow of the atoms moving in obedience to the law of gravitation , and consequently , of the operation of that law modified by the cen ?
trifugal force : and lastly , that even the disturbing forces do not tend to give to the earth a figure widely different from that of a spheroid in equilibrium .

