A numerical Table of elective Attractions ; with Remarks on the Sequences of double Decompositions .
By Thomas Young , M.D. For .
Sec. R.S. Read February 9 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 148 .
] The attempts that have been made by some chemists to represent the attractive forces of chemical bodies by number , having been limited and hastily abandoned , some important consequences which follow , from the principle of numericeal representation , have been entirely overlooked .
Although there may be circumstances that will occasion exceptions to general rules , it appears that 100 numbers maybe made correctly to represent nearly all the phenomena of the mutual action of 100 different salts , which , if described separately , would require about 5000 separate articles .
The author , having lately paid much attention to some of the principal facts in chemistry and pharmacy , has attempted the investigation of a series of numbers adapted to this purpose , and has succeeded in representing nearly 1500 cases of double decomposition enumerated by Fourcroy , with the exception of not more than twenty cases ; and although it cannot be expected that these numbers are accurate measures of the forces they represent , yet they may be supposed to be tolerable approximations ; for if any two of them be near the truth , the rest cannot be very far from it .
Dr. Young , however , observes , that if attractive force , which tends to unite any two substances , may always be represented by a constant quantity , it will follow , upon general principles , independent of any further hypothesis , that all known facts on this subject may be arranged in an order not liable to further alteration , in such a manner as to enable us to compare , with facility , a multitude of scattered phenomena .
For if each force be constant , it follows that there must be a sequence in simple elective attractions , and palpable errors may thereby be detected in the common tables ; for instance , in the four compounds resulting from the union of phosphoric and sulphuric acids with magnesia and ammonia , either the order of the acids , or the order of the bases , ; must be the same , otherwise the same force may be shown to be both greater and less than another .
The author observes , secondly , that there must be an agreement between the simple and double elective attractions ; for if fluoric acid stands above the nitric under barytes , and below it under lime , the fluate of barytes cannot decompose nitrate of lime .
The author makes a third observation ( which is less obvious ) , that there must be a continued sequence in the order of double elective attractions , and accordingly that between any two acids the several bases may be arranged in such an order , that any two salts will decompose each other , unless each acid be united to that base which stands nearest to it in the series ; and a similar arrangement will obtain for the acid between any two bases .
In forming tables of this kind from the cases collected by Fourcroy , the author has been under the necessity of rejecting some facts that were contradictory to others ; and in admitting some which were not consistent with numerical representation , he has taken care to notice such inconsistency , and by notes of interrogation , or otherwise , to mark whatever remains in doubt .
For the purpose of assisting the memory in retaining so numerous a series of facts , the author has contrived to express , in fifteen Latin hexameters , as many as 1260 cases of double affinity .

