20 Dr. M. Lowenthal and Prof. V. Horsley .
On the state in the elongation experiments as in the magnetisation experiments .
The change of length of the wire was magnified and measured by causing a lever , whose arms were in a great ratio , to deflect a mirror which was observed by means of a telescope and scale at a considerable distance .
The observed change of length was always a contraction .
The change of length calculated from the theory of stresses was also ' Si always a contraction , the preponderating term^H \#151 ; being always negative .
The difference between the observed and calculated contractions was , however , considerable , the theory only accounting for a part of the observed contraction .
Diagrams are given showing the values of the magnetisation , of the effect of increase of tension on magnetisation , and of the observed and calculated contractions , all as functions of the field H. It was found that the difference between the observed and calculated contractions was approximately proportional to the fourth power of the magnetisation , a diagram showing that , if this corrected contraction be represented as a function of I4 , the points all lie very near a straight line passing through the origin , the deviations being within the limits of experimental error .
\#171 ; On the Relations between the Cerebellar and other Centres ( namely Cerebral and Spinal ) with especial Reference to the Action of Antagonistic Muscles .
( Preliminary Account .
) " By Max Lowenthal , M.D. ( Wiirz .
) , M.R.C.P. , and Victor Horsley , F.R.S. , F.R.C.S. Received February 8 , \#151 ; Read February 25 , 181)7 .
( From the Laboratory of Chemical Pathology in University College , London .
) The following is a brief summary of certain results which we have obtained in the investigation of the relations prevailing between the cerebellum and other parts of the nervous system , and which we commenced in consequence of an observation made by one of us ( L ) , on the 24th May , 1895 .
This consisted in the observation that when both cerebral hemispheres were removed and , as a result , active extension tonus of the limbs was obtained , excitation ( faradic ) of the upper surface of the cerebellum caused immediate relaxation of such tonus so long as * We venture to propose the term " acerebral " tonus for the phenomenon , to avoid unnecessary periphrasis , and to distinguish it from that observed after removal of the cerebellar hemispheres .
Relations between the Cerebellar and other Centres , $.\lt ; ? .
21 the current was applied , and that on the latter being shut off the tonus was immediately re-established .
As this observation appeared to indicate a distinct relation between the cerebellum and the bulbospinal system of lower centres , it was obviously very important to examine it further , especially as to whether it was a truly central effect or not .
It was soon made clear that the effect was a constant one , provided that the above mentioned tonus was distinctly established , and further that the primary effect of excitation of the cerebellum upon the upper limb in such case was not an active relaxation of the triceps alone , but that there was a marked contraction of the biceps .
Further , this effect , though constant , when tonus is present , was not the character of the muscle changes obtained when the tonus was absent .
It was , therefore , necessary to arrange a large series of experiments to determine a comparison between the changes in the two groups of muscles according as to whether the cortex cerebri , corona radiata , crusta , tegmentum , cerebellum , or cerebellar peduncles were excited either singly or in combination .
After making fifteen experiments in which the contraction of the muscles involved was determined by inspection , passive movement and palpation only , the movements produced were graphically recorded , and the general conduct of the experiments arranged as follows :\#151 ; Method of Experimentation .
The animal ( the dog and cat have so far been examined ) was anaesthetised by ether , tracheotomy performed for the purposes of convenient anaesthesia and a ligature looped loosely round each common carotid artery .
The left sigmoid gyrus , the right occipital lobe and right half of the cerebellum were freely exposed , the dura matter preserved intact , and the whole kept warm by pads of absorbent wool soaked in warm normal saline solution .
The right forearm was next carefully detached at the elbow after the brachial artery had been ligatured , the nerve trunks cut short , and the lower bony insertions of the biceps and brachialis anticus separated from the ulna and radius shafts .
A ligature was then attached to these conjointly , and a similar ligature was fastened to the olecranon , which had been detached by a cut through the bottom of the greater sigmoid notch .
The threads securing the muscles were affixed to Fick 's spring myographs of suitable strength , and a record thus obtained on paper of the changes in form of the muscles , as well as of the moment and duration of excitation by suitable signals ( F. J. Smith 's ) .
The nerve centres were excited in all cases by fine platinum elec22 Dr. M. Lowenthal and Prof. Y. Horsley .
On the trodes , 2 mm. apart .
The induction coils used were , one on Kronecker 's pattern , the other by the Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company .
History of Previous Observations .
The history of previous investigation of the relations of the cerebellum to the other regions of the central nervous system we intend to discuss in a future communication , which will contain the full details of our experiments .
Synopsis of Results.* A. Excitation of the Left " Motor " Cortex , i.e. , Forelimb Area- of Sigmoid Gyrus of the Left Hemisphere .
In the dog and cat excitation of the forelimb area of the excitable cortex produced out of fourteen experiments invariably synchronous contraction of both biceps and triceps muscles .
The degree of contraction also was remarkably symmetrical , and in the majority of cases even the relative degree of tonus and clonus respectively was constant .
Further , when quasi-purposive reflex ( ?
) movements occurred during alterations in the anaesthesia , \amp ; c. , this symmetry was even more pronounced .
So far as antagonism is concerned , when the cortex alone was excited , no relaxation of either the biceps or triceps was observed .
It will be remembered that these results are purely those obtained from carnivorous animals .
B. Excitation of the Left Corona Stimulation of the corona radiata produced in eight cases invariably symmetrical and synchronous contraction of both biceps and triceps .
This was an absolutely constant result in all the cases examined .
Ho relaxation was ever obtained .
C. Excitation of the Crusta of the Left Crus Cerebri .
In sixteen experiments the crura were excited on the cut surface .
The excision of the cerebral hemispheres was always performed by ligaturing both common carotid arteries , and then dividing the mesencephalon by a single incision passing through , or just in front of , the anterior corpora quadrigemina .
* It is to be remembered that the muscles prepared for graphic record were in all experiments the biceps and brachialis anticus and the triceps , of the right side only .
Relations between the Cerebellar and other , \lt ; 23 In all the experiments the excitation was performed before the general tonus was established , as well as after in the instances where the tonus actually occurred .
( a ) Excitation of the left Crusta before General Tonus established .
\#151 ; When the crusta was stimulated in the absence of tonus there resulted invariably contraction of both the biceps and triceps .
( b ) Excitation of the left Crusta after General Tonus is established.\#151 ; When the " acerebral " tonus is established .
Excitation of the left crusta produced out of the sixteen experiments :\#151 ; In 13 cases contraction of biceps and contraction of triceps .
" 2 , , , , , , relaxation , , " 1 , , relaxation , , contraction " In his most recent communication* on the subject of antagonistic muscle action , Sherrington states that he has obtained cessation of the " acerebral " triceps tonic contraction by excitation of the crus pyramidal fibres .
As he does not state how often he observed this effect , we cannot compare the conditions of the two sets of experiments .
D. Excitation of the Crusta of the right Crus Cerebri .
The right crusta was also excited in eight experiments , and it was found that , as a rule , there was evoked contraction in both biceps and triceps , but twice relaxation of the biceps and once of the triceps was observed .
E. Excitation of the Tegmentum of the left Crus Cerebri .
The surface of the tegmentum was excited , and an effect upon the biceps and triceps observed when the stimulation was applied to the region of the red nucleus and the locus niger .
Excitation of the anterior corpora quadrigemina was without effect .
In every case in which the left tegmentum was excited it evoked contraction of both biceps and triceps .
F. Excitation of the Tegmentum of the right Crus Cerebri .
The right tegmentum , when stimulated in five cases , gave always contraction of both muscles , as a rule , the triceps being in excess of the biceps , but this was reversed on two occasions .
Gr .
Excitation of the Cerebellum .
Excitation of the cerebellum produced very constant and sharply marked effects according as to whether the " acerebral " tonus was # ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' January 21 , 1897 .
24 Relations between the Cerebellar and other Centres , present or not , and , further , a notable difference according to the side of the cerebellum excited .
The limits of the excitable region of the cerebellum will not now be discussed , but we may here state that the most excitable area is along the line of junction of the vermis superior with the lateral lobe .
( This , it will be noted , is that portion of the cortex of the cerebellum which , in vertical position , is nearest the superior cerebellar peduncle .
) Tor the purposes of the present communication excitation of the cerebellum means excitation of this focal area .
( a ) Excitation of the Cerebellum when " acerebral " Tonus is established.\#151 ; The effect of excitation of the cerebellum when ablation of the cerebral hemispheres has produced general tonic contraction , in extension of the trunk and limb muscles is a striking and constant active relaxation so far as the triceps ( of the side stimulated ) is concerned , and an active contraction of the biceps .
In the absence of graphic record it is impossible to determine precisely what is the nature of this effect on either the biceps or triceps .
We have , however , proved by the graphic method that\#151 ; ( 1 ) The biceps contracts powerfully ; ( 2 ) The triceps actively relaxes , it does not simply relax by ceasing to contract , but it relaxes so as to lose its normal physiological tonus .
The next step was of course the further investigation whether this phenomenon is uuilateral .
We have found as the result of twenty-nine experiments that the muscles of the right arm can be influenced by excitation of both halves of the cerebellum , but that the effect is very much greater from excitation of the right half , i.e. , the same side .
In addition we have excited the two halves of the cerebellum after median division of the organ , and then found that the effect was practically limited to the same side .
This is of course in harmony with the results of ablation of the cerebellar hemispheres obtained by Luciani , Risien Russell , and Ferrier and Turner .
In five experiments it was interesting to find that excitation of the left half of the cerebellum , i.e. , that of the opposite side , evoked relaxation of the biceps .
This crossed effect we noticed early in the investigation , and the similarity in the movements of the forelimb in walking was very striking .
The phenomenon of relaxation of the triceps and contraction of the biceps can be obtained also by excitation of the sub-cortical white substance of the cerebellum and of the peduncles in part .
( b ) Excitation of the Cerebellum when no " acerebral " Tonus is yet Prof. J. K. Green .
Action of Light on 25 established.\#151 ; We have constantly obtained from the cerebellar cortex a tonic contraction of either the triceps pr biceps , or both together , if the " acerebral " tonus had not appeared .
H. Synchronous Excitation of the Cerebellum and Cerebrum .
Synchronous excitation of the cerebral area for the forelimb and the cerebellar focus has given so far , in cases where the cerebellum is definitely excitable , an addition to the tonus elicited previously from the cortex cerebri .
While such reinforcement seems to be the rule , we believe that the clonic character of the cortical impulses is adversely affected by the cerebellar activity .
Since Professor Sherrington 's third note on " Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles " appeared , we have investigated the question of reflex inhibition of the " acerebral " tonus by the graphic method , to see how far the two effects are identical , and have obtained some instructive results , the full discussion of which , however , must be postponed , as the observations are incomplete .
It is sufficient now to say that while we have confirmed Professor Sherrington 's discovery that excitation of an afferent tract on the same ( .
, in our experiments , right ) side causes relaxation of the triceps and contraction of the biceps , we have also found that excitation of a left afferent tract causes relaxation of the biceps and contraction of the triceps , an interesting correspondence with the alternation we observed in the two halves of the cerebellum , and which is obviously related to the movement of progression .
" On the Action of Light on Diastase and its Biological Significance .
" By J. Reynolds Green , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany to the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain .
Received January 28 , \#151 ; Read February 25 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) According to the observations of Brown and Morris , * the quantity of diastase in foliage leaves undergoes considerable variations during the twenty-four hours of the day , being greatest in the early morning and least in the evening , particularly after several hours ' sunshine .
During the past three years the author has carried out a series of experiments to ascertain whether the diminution in quantity is due to a destructive influence of the light upon the enzyme , similar to # ' Jour .
Chem. Soc. , ' May , 1893 .

