223 Sex-determination in Hydatina , with Some Remarks on Parthenogenesis .
* By R. C. Punnett , Fellow of Gonville and Caius College and Balfour Student in the University of Cambridge .
( Communicated by Adam Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received May 15 , \#151 ; Read June 28 , 1906 .
) [ Plate 11 .
] Introductory.\#151 ; Those writers who hold that the sex of an animal organism can be affected by a modification of external conditions during the period of development have of late years supported their case by reference to the parthenogenetic rotifer , Hydatina senta .
Upon certain of the facts of reproduction there is a general consensus of opinion among those who have made a study of this species .
Briefly summarised it is as follows:\#151 ; Three kinds of ova are produced by this rotifer , viz. : ( 1 ) parthenogenetic ova which develop into ?
's ; ( 2 ) parthenogenetic ova of smaller size which develop into cT 's ; and ( 3 ) fertilised eggs which always develop into ?
's .
Any given $ lays but one of these three classes of eggs during her lifetime .
We may , therefore , distinguish three kinds of ?
's by the eggs they lay , viz. : ( a ) ?
's which produce ?
's parthenogenetically , or thelytokous ?
's ; ( b ) ?
's which produce cT 's parthenogenetical ] y , or arrenotokous ?
's ; and ( c ) the layers of fertilised eggs .
Both thelytokous and arrenotokous $ 's can be impregnated by the S- On the former impregnation has no effect .
In the case of the arrenotokous ?
's impregnation has no effect , unless it occurs during the first few hours after hatching .
When this takes place such a ?
produces fertilised eggs instead of the S eggs which it would otherwise have laid .
The layers of fertilised eggs are , therefore , arrenotokous ?
's , which owe their special nature to the circumstance of having been impregnated by the S during the earlier stages of their growth .
And in this connection it is interesting to recall Lenssen 's observation that the S egg extrudes a single polar body , whilst the $ egg extrudes none.* Though the thelytokous ?
's cannot be fertilised they are able to give rise parthenogenetically to arrenotokous ?
's as well as to other thelytokous ?
's .
The proportion of arrenotokous ?
's so produced is subject to considerable variation , and to connect these variations with external conditions has been the object of those who have bred these animals with a view to throwing light upon the vexed problem of sex-determination .
* 'La Cellule , ' vol. 14 , 1898 .
Mr. R. C. Punnett .
[ May 15 , In a 'series of brief papers communicated to the French Institut , Maupas* held that temperature was the factor which determined the result , but that it produced an effect only in newly-hatched ?
's before the eggs had commenced to develop in tKe ovary .
To quote his words : " Au debut de l'ovogen\amp ; se , au contraire , l'ceuf est encore neutre et , en agissant convenable-ment , on peut k ce moment lui faire prendre volontd l'un ou l'autre caractere sexuel .
L'agent modificateur est la temperature .
L'abaisse-t-on les jeunes ceufs qui vont se former revetent l'etat de pondeuse d'ceufs femelles ; l'41\amp ; ve-t-on , au contraire , c'est l'4tat de pondeuse d'ceufs males qui se developpe .
" More recently Nussbaumf has criticised Maupas ' results .
He has pointed out that under adverse nutritive conditions the eggs laid by a thelytokous $ are often no larger than those laid by an arrenotokous $ under normal conditions .
Such adverse conditions Maupas must have brought about by raising the temperature , and Nussbaum suggests that Maupas mistook the small ?
eggs then produced for \lt ; $ eggs .
Had he waited for them to hatch he would have realised their true nature .
From my own experience , in so far as it goes , I am inclined to attribute some weight to this criticism of Nussbaum , and to agree with him in considering that an element of uncertainty is in this way introduced into Maupas ' results .
Nussbaum supported his criticism by experiments and showed that a ?
subjected to a high temperature before hatching or during the earlier period of its life may give rise to thelytokous ?
's only ( Experiments 21 , 23 , and 24 , pp. 265 to 267 ) .
Having rejected temperature as a factor in the determination of sex in Hydatina , Nussbaum turned his attention to other possible influences , and believed that he had found such a one in nutrition .
" Bei Hydatina senta bestimmt wahrend einer gewissen Entwicklungsphase die Ernahrung das Geschlecht des ganzen Geleges eines jeden jungfraulichen " Weibchen .
Wird das auskriechende Weibchen bis zur Reifung seines ersten Eies gut ernahrt , so legt es nur weibliche Eier ; wird es bis zur Geschlechtsreife mangelhaft ernahrt , so legt es nur mannliche Eier .
Yor und nach dieser Periode hat die Ernahrung keinen Einfluss " ( p. 306 ) .
In such a conclusion I cannot agree with Nussbaum , for reasons which will appear below .
It is sufficient to note here that his own experiments do not always bear him out .
Thus in Experiment 50 , p. 283 , he had a " Hungercolonie " on October 4 , in which were many ?
eggs .
From the account it is evident that many of these must have hatched and have been * ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1890-91 .
t ' Archiv f. mik .
Anat .
, ' 1897 .
Sex-determination in Hydatina .
1906 .
] without food during the supposed critical early stages before fresh was given them 25 hours later .
Nevertheless , no S 's appeared in subsequent breeding from the culture .
From all this it must be apparent that neither modifications of temperature nor of nutrition afford a satisfactory explanation of the varying proportion of arrenotokous ?
's which may occur in different cultures of Hydatina .
There is , however , another explanation of this phenomenon which avoids the necessity of having recourse to external influences .
It is possible that it may be the property of certain ?
's to produce arrenotokous ?
's in a definite ratio , and again the property of others to produce none .
To test such a possibility it is obvious that the starting point for each generation must be the individual and not , as in all of Maupas ' and many of Nussbaum 's experiments , a collection of individuals .
Methods.\#151 ; Breeding experiments were started in October , 1904 , and , with short breaks , have been carried on until the present time .
Each rotifer from which offspring were to be reared was isolated in that form of vessel known as a solid watch-glass , where it lived in about 2 c.c. of water containing EugleTia .
As the young hatched from its eggs they were similarly isolated by means of a fine pipette .
If it was desired to test only their immediate offspring , some three or four of these were often placed together for the better economy of space and food .
No ?
was recorded as either thelytokous or arrenotokous until her eggs had been proved to hatch into either ?
's or cT 's .
The average temperature of the room , as measured by a maximum and minimum thermometer , was about 16 ' to 18 ' C. On occasion it was lowered to 6 ' C. or raised to 24 ' C. Hydatina is extremely hardy and the chief difficulty in breeding it lies in the food supply , for it thrives far better on Euglena than on anything else .
My supply of this Protozoon was derived from Mr. Those .
Bolton , of Birmingham , and was on the whole regular .
In the occasional lean intervals particular experiments came to an enforced end , and my chief care was then to preserve certain strains from extinction .
In one instance only was I compelled to have recourse for about 10 days to another food supply , and to make use of the bacteria and other small organisms which occur in a decoction of cabbage leaves .
Hydatina can live on this diet , but does not thrive as it does upon .
A further difficulty in connection with the food supply lies in its purification .
The water in which Euglena lives usually contains numbers of Hydatina with their eggs .
To remove these by a pipette is a tedious business , and there is always an element of uncertainty present in that a young rotifer or an egg may have been overlooked .
Without doubt some of my earlier experiments are not absolutely trustworthy for this reason , and Mr. R. C. Punnett .
[ May 15 , I have consequently not made use of them in the following account .
No such doubt , however , attaches to the later experiments , for the advent of a small centrifugal machine into the laboratory provided an easy and certain means of obtaining a culture of Euglena free of rotifers and their eggs .
Experimental Results.\#151 ; My experiments have led me to the conclusion that among the rotifers I used were certainly three different types of thelytokous 9 's , viz.:\#151 ; A. $ 's producing a high percentage of arrenotokous ?
's .
B. ?
's producing a low percentage of arrenotokous ?
's . .
C. Purely thelytokous ?
's producing no arrenotokous ?
's .
It will be convenient to consider the evidence for this conclusion under these three headings .
Incidentally it may be mentioned that the production of cTs is , under laboratory conditions at any rate , quite independent of the season of the year .
Type A. $ 's Producing a High Percentage of Arrenotokous ?
's .
Only once was such a strain met with and bred over a series of generations .
The result is shown in Fam .
2 ( see diagram , Plate 11 ) .
It will be noticed that from the seventh generation onwards the proportion of arrenotokous ?
's is high and bears to the thelytokous ?
'sa ratio of about 7 : 9 , the actual numbers being 46 : 63 .
Here , as in other experiments , I was unable to trace any order in the sequence of the two types of ?
's .
The proportion of arrenotokous ?
's among the earlier eggs of a family was neither higher nor lower than among the later ones .
Owing to an unfortunate failure in the food supply the strain was lost before experiments had been made to determine whether it was capable of giving rise to either type B or type C. Type B. ?
's Producing a Low Percentage of Arrenotokous ?
's .
It has been my experience that if a ?
is taken at random and bred from , it will usually turn out to belong to this class .
As reference to Fam .
1 ( see plate ) shows , the percentage of arrenotokous ?
's is low , but it is not possible to determine it with any degree of accuracy unless very much , larger numbers are available .
Even such figures may indicate but little , for they may represent merely the resultant of more than one definite ratio .
An interesting feature in this family is the production of an apparently pure thelytokous strain .
Commencing with T* we have a series of 15 generations , comprising 177 individuals , in which no arrenotokous ?
appeared .
Failure of food then terminated the experiment , but I think 1906 .
] Sex-determination in Hydatina .
227 there can be little doubt of a purely thelytokous strain having arisen here .
Though arrenotokous ?
's are rare they yet average 2 to 5 per cent , in families of Type B , and the fact of their non-appearance among 177 individuals seems to be fairly conclusive evidence of the inability of the strain under consideration to produce them .
Type C. Pure Thelytokous ?
's .
Barer than Type B , but by no means difficult to obtain , are ?
's which are incapable of giving rise to arrenotokous offspring .
An example of such a strain is shown in Bam .
3 , in which 55 generations including 178 individuals were bred and tested without the appearance of a single arrenotokous ? .
In another case 262 thelytokous individuals spread over 24 generations were produced , whilst in a third instance ( Fam .
4 of plate ) the strain was bred for 73 generations , during which 304 individuals were tested and shown to be purely thelytokous .
In view of these experiments I have referred to the ?
's of Type C as purely thelytokous .
By doing so I have no desire to ignore the possibility that such strains may eventually " break " and give rise to some arrenotokous ?
's .
Since , however , this has not occurred in my experiments the evidence for regarding them as I have done is very strong .
In any case the nature of the ?
's of Type G must be distinct from those of Types A and B. Influence of Temperature and Nutrition .
It might be argued by some that the continuance of purely thelytokous strains was due to uniform conditions of temperature or of nutrition .
Such , however , is not the case .
In one of the experiments a purely thelytokous strain was subjected , to considerable fluctuations of temperature .
During a period of eight days it varied between 8 ' C. and 11 ' C. , averaging 9 ' C. The rate of reproduction was much retarded , but in the many subsequent generations produced when the temperature was raised no arrenotokous $ 's made their appearance .
The same strain was afterwards subjected for four days to an average temperature of 22 ' C. ( the extremes being 21 ' C. and 23 C. ) without alteration of its purely thelytokous nature .
A number of starvation experiments were also made , of which the following may serve as an example .
An egg from a purely thelytokous strain 13T T ( Starved for 6 hours after hatching .
) L Hi ^Starved for 23 hours after hatching .
) 5T T ( Starved for 20 hours after hatching .
) Mr. R. C. Punnett .
[ May 15 , ( Fam .
3 ) was isolated soon after being laid and placed in clean water without a trace of Euglena .
After hatching it was kept without food for six hours and then well fed .
It laid 14 eggs which all became thelytokous ?
's .
One of these was again starved for 23 hours and , on being supplied with food , laid six eggs which all gave rise to thelytokous ?
's .
Lastly , one of these six was starved for 20 hours .
Though well supplied with food at the end of that time it experienced some difficulty in growing up and laid only two eggs before it died .
From both these eggs hatched out thelytokous ?
's .
The relation of these generations is shown in the accompanying scheme .
In none of the other similar experiments made with purely thelytokous strains did any arrenotokous ?
's appear , neither was the proportion of 's raised as the result of starving families of Type B. Reference was made above to an instance in which , owing to failure in the Euglena supply , a decoction of cabbage was used as food .
This happened during the 54th and 55th generations of a strain of Type C ( see Fam .
4 ) .
The animals were poorly nourished and laid very few eggs .
Nevertheless the strain just managed to tide over the period of dearth , and on Euglena being again forthcoming it went on for 17 further generations before the experiment was stopped .
During this time 134 individuals produced were proved to be thelytokous and none were found to be arrenotokous .
In the face of such facts as these it is difficult to entertain the opinion that either temperature or nutrition have any influence in determining the production of arrenotokous ?
's .
The varying proportion of arrenotokous ?
's in different cultures of JSydatina apparently depends upon the existence of ?
's of different zygotic constitution , and the solution of the sex problem seems to lie in the determination of the unit-characters involved .
The data for such a solution are at present inadequate .
Before it is possible to frame a theory we must have further knowledge on the following points:\#151 ; ( a ) The number of different types of ?
that exist as judged by the criterion of their relative output of thelytokous and arrenotokous ?
's , and the relation of these types to one another .
( b ) The possible existence of zygotically distinct types of 's and the types of ?
's from which they respectively arise .
With regard to the former point we have evidence for the existence of ( 1 ) purely thelytokous $ 's , ( 2 ) of ?
's producing arrenotokous ?
's in the proportion of about 7 in 16 , ( 3 ) of strains of ?
's which produce but few arrenotokous ?
's and in which the rather irregular numbers may be due to the co-existence of two types at present indistinguishable owing to imper1906 .
] Sex-determination in Hydatina .
fection of analysis , and ( 4 ) of ?
's which , according to Maupas* produce three arrenotokous ?
's out of every four .
Beyond the fact that ( 1 ) may arise from ( 3 ) we know nothing of the inter-relations of these various types .
Whether or not there are zygotically distinct types of \lt ; $ 's we are at present quite ignorant .
The possibility might , however , be tested by a system of fertilisation experiments and subsequent breeding from the ?
's hatched .
The Nature of Parthenogenesis.\#151 ; Any interpretation of the facts which is based upon inherent differences in the zygotic constitution of individual ?
's must necessarily lead us to modify our views as to the nature of parthenogenesis .
A given ?
can be constructed on but a single zygotic plan .
Consequently if she produces eggs without the formation of polar bodies , as Lennsenf has suggested , these eggs , provided they contain the somatic number of chromosomes , ought all to possess the same zygotic constitution and the same zygotic properties .
But if we assume , and the assumption seems warranted by facts , that external influences are without effect , we must then infer that a ?
which produces both arrenotokous and thelytokous ?
's is producing two entirely different kinds of egg .
In the light of recent Mendelian research such a condition implies a process of segregation which is probably bound up with a reduction in the somatic number of chromosomes , and the subsequent restoration of that number by the union of two gametic cells each containing the reduced number .
Though without evidence either way we have no reason to suppose that the somatic number of chromosomes varies in Hydatina during successive generations .
We are , therefore , led to suppose that , somewhere antecedent to the formation of an ovum , there is a gametogenic process , and that the recombinations which take place among the gametes so formed determine the proportion of arrenotokous ?
's .
In other words , it seems not inconceivable that the thelytokous ?
's are really hermaphrodite , though the S gametes may not exhibit the orthodox form of spermatozoa .
J Such a view would account for the observed absence of polar bodies in the ?
eggs , for it must be supposed that the process of reduction and fertilisation takes place before the accumulation of yolky material .
The ?
eggs would on this view be comparable , not to the parthenogenetic $ eggs , but to ^ eggs which had undergone fertilisation with the formation of " winter " eggs .
On the other hand it must not be forgotten that , although unable to * ' Comptes Rendus , ' October 6 , 1890 .
+ ' La Cellule , ' vol. 14 , 1898 , t this connection may be mentioned the interesting discovery of Braver , that in the parthenogenetic egg of Artemia a second polar body is extruded , but immediately re-enters the ovum and fuses with the ?
pronucleus .
230 Sex-determination in Hydatina .
observe the extrusion of a polar body , Lennsen* nevertheless describes the beginnings of karyokinesis in the parthenogenetic $ eggs .
The process , however , appears to be arrested half way , and no segregation of chromatic material seems to occur .
Whether there is such segregation must be left for future investigation to decide .
The problem can be decided only by tracing , accurately the fate of the chromosomes , and it is with a view to stimulating further work on the part of the histologist that I have put forward the highly speculative suggestion outlined above .
Before concluding these remarks on the nature of parthenogenesis a few words may be devoted to another aspect of the problem .
Since the publication of Maupas ' experiments on ciliated infusorians it has been generally held among biologists that the effect of conjugation is to arrest a process of senile decay otherwise inevitable in animal stocks which exhibit the phenomenon of asexual reproduction .
In other words , there must be a limit to the amount of protoplasm produced in the period between two successive acts of conjugation .
Among lowly organisms such as the ' protozoa this amount may be very large .
Among the more highly differentiated metazoa it is relatively small , and where reproduction is entirely sexual it is limited to the amount produced during the lifetime of an individual .
A pure thelytokous strain of Hydatina senta offers a remarkable contrast to the rest of the metazoa .
If we reckon the volume of an individual at 0 01 cubic millimetre , and suppose that each is capable of producing 30 eggs it is a matter of simple calculation to show that the volume of protoplasm producible in 65 generations in less than a year ) would form a solid sphere of which the dimensions would be such that it could not be contained within the limits of the known universe.f We are , therefore , driven to one of two alternatives\#151 ; either that what may be termed the potential productivity of protoplasm is immeasurably greater in Hydatina than in all other metazoa , or that some process of conjugation occurs at one stage or another in the so-called parthenogenetic reproduction of this form .
For reasons already stated I am inclined to favour the latter view , and it is in the hope that the matter may attract the attention of the histologist that I have ventured upon the calculation which forms the substance of this last paragraph .
* Loc .
cit. , p. 437 .
t For assistance in making the calculations upon which this statement is based I am greatly indebted to my astronomical friend , Mr. Cookson , of Trinity College , Cambridge .
# NMRP* f T T A 4T 4t f \#165 ; T T T T : 1 1 1 1 1 9T 10T 12T 6T 3T 3T +A f f 4- 1 1 T T T 4T T+3T+A A+3T+T +A L + t + | 4V 4T | i ft t + t 1 Ti T 5T 9T 7T 13T 9T Q 1 3T 9T 10T + t JT\#151 ; hi- .
id\#151 ; .
On the Julianiacece , a New Natural Order of Plants .
231 EXPLANATION OF DIAGRAM , PLATE 11 .
On the plate are given details of four families of parthenogenetic $ 's .
Fam .
1 contains a few arrenotokous $ 's , Fam .
2 contains many , whilst Fam .
3 and Fam .
4 show none ( cf. Types B , A , and C , pp. 226 , 227 ) .
T denotes a ?
proved to be thelytokous .
A denotes a ?
proved to be arrenotokous .
The small figures in Families 3 and 4 signify the number of the generation from the original parent of the strain .
Thus in Family 3 , I9 + 12T means that in the ninth generation 13 $ 's from the same parent ( I8 ) were proved to be thelytokous , and that one of these was used as the mother of the tenth generation\#151 ; the rest being discarded .
" Where apparent gaps occur , .
, in Fam .
3 , between T17 and T40 , it means that a single ?
was used in each generation to continue the strain , but that the sisters of these individuals were not bred from .
On the Julianiacece , a New Natural Order of Plants .
By W. Botting Hemsley ; F.R.S. , F.L.S. , Keeper of the Herbarium and Library , Royal Botanic Gardens , Kew .
( Received June 6 , \#151 ; Read June 28 , 1906 .
) ( Abstract .
) I.\#151 ; General Description .
The Julianiacese comprise , so far as at present known , two genera and five species .
They are resiniferous , tortuously branched , deciduous , dioecious shrubs or small trees , having alternate , exstipulate , imparipinnate leaves , from about one to three decimetres long , clustered at the tips of the flowering branches and scattered along the short barren shoots .
The flowers are small , green or yellow-green , quite inconspicuous , and the males are very different from the females .
The male inflorescence is a more or less densely branched axillary panicle or compound catkin , from 2| to 15 cm .
long , with weak , thread-like , hairy branches and pedicels .
The male flowers are numerous , 3 to 5 mm. in diameter and consist of a simple , very thin perianth , divided nearly to the base into four to nine narrow equal segments , and an equal number of stamens alternating with the segments .
In structure and appearance they are almost exactly like those of the common oak .
The female inflorescence is similar in structure to that of the sweet chestnut , consisting of an almost closed , usually five-toothed involucre , borne on a flattened pedicel and containing three or four collateral flowers , of which the two outside ones are , perhaps , always abortive .
At the flowering stage , the female inflorescences , including the narrow

