II .
" On the Orders and Genera of Ternary Quadratic Forms .
" By HENRY J. STEPHEN SMITH , M.A. , F.R.S. , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford .
Received February 21 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this Paper is to supply demonstrations of the undemonstrated results , relating to Ternary Quadratic Forms , which are contained in an important memoir of Eisenstein 's ( " Never Theoreme der hoheren Arithmetik , " Crelle 's Journal , vol. xxxv .
p. 117 ) , and , at the same time , to extend those results to the cases not considered by him in that Memoir .
The following are the principal points in which the theory of Eisenstein has been thus further developed:1 .
In Eisenstein 's Memoir forms of an even discriminant only are considered .
Such forms , and their contravariants , are always properly primitive ; they have particular generic characters with respect to uneven primes dividing the discriminant , but have no supplementary characters ( i. e. characters with respect to 4 or 8 ) .
The case of forms of an even discriminant is more complicated .
Besides the properly primitive order , there may exist , in this case , an improperly primitive order , in which the forms themselves are improperly primitive , and their contravariants properly primitive , -or , again , an improperly primitive order , in which the forms themselves are properly primitive , and their contravariants improperly primitive .
Further , forms of an even discriminant may have characters with respect to 4 or 8 ; and a complete enumeration of these supplementary characters requires a carefill distinction of cases .
To facilitate this enu meration , a Table is given in the Paper for finding the supplementary characters of any proposed form .
2 .
A Table is also given for forming the complete generic character of any proposed form .
This Table is intended to serve the same purposes , in the theory of ternary quadratic forms , for which the Table of Lejeune Dirichlet is available in the binary theory ( Crelle , vol. xix .
p. 338 ) .
The Table , like that of Lejeune Dirichlet , distinguishes between the possible and impossible generic characters ; and the Paper contains a complete demonstration of the criterion by which they are distinguished .
3 .
Besides the particular characters relating to uneven primes dividing the discriminant , it is convenient , in those cases in which there is no supplementary character , to consider a certain particular generic character which does not appear to have been regarded as such by Eisenstein .
This character is termed in the Paper the simultaneous character of the form and its contravariant : its existence is demonstrated ; and its introduction as an element of the complete generic character is justified by its use in the distinction of possible and impossible genera .
4 .
It has been proposed to define a genus of forms as consisting of all those forms which can be transformed into one another by substitutions of which the coefficients are rational and the determinant a unit .
It is desirable ( in the case of quadratic forms ) to add to this definition the limitation that the denominators of the fractional coefficients are to be uneven , and prime to the discriminant .
And it is shown , in this Paper , that two ternary quadratic forms are or are not transformable into one another by such substitutions , according as their complete generic characters do or do not coincide .
5 .
The preceding observations apply equally to the cases of definite and indefinite forms .
These two cases are included in the same analysis by means of a convention as to the signs of the two numbers defined by Eisenstein , and termed in this Paper the arithmetical invariants of the ternary form .
The first invariant of a form is the greatest common divisor of the first minors of the matrix of the form ; the second invariant is the quotient obtained by dividing the discriminant by the square of the first invariant .
According to the convention adopted in the Paper , the second invariant has the same sign as the discriminant ; and the first invariant has or has not the same sign as the second , according as the form is definite or indefinite .
6 .
The latter part of the Paper is occupied exclusively with ; he theory of definite and positive forms .
In the case of these forms , the weight ( or , as Eisenstein has termed it , the density ) of a class is the reciprocal of the number of automorphics ( of determinant +1 ) of any form of the class ; the weight of a representation of a number by a form is the weight of the form , i. e. the weight of the class containing the form ; the weight of a genus or order is the sum of the weights of the classes comprised in the genus or order .
In his Memoir , Eisenstein has given ( but without demonstration ) the formulae which assign the weight of a given genus or order of forms of an uneven discriminant .
These formulae are demonstrated in the present Paper , and , with them , the corresponding formula relating to the cases in which the discriminant is even .
The demonstration is obtained by a method similar to that employed by Gauss and Dirichlet for the determination of the number of binary classes of a given determinant .
The sum of the weights of the representations , by a system of forms representing the classes of any proposed genus , of all the numbers contained in certain arithmetical progressions , and not surpassing a given number , is in a finite ratio to the sesquiplicate power of the given number when that number is supposed to increase without limit .
Of this limiting ratio , two distinct determinations are obtained ; of which the first contains , as a factor , the weight of the proposed genus ; and an expression for that weight is obtained by a comparison of the two determinations .
Of these determinations , the first is obtained immediately by an elementary application of the integral calculus ; the second depends on an arithmetical theorem , which is deduced in the Paper from the analysis employed by Gauss in arts .
279-284 of the ' Disquisitiones Arithmeticae , ' and which may be expressed as follows:"The sum of the weights of the representations of a given number ( contained in one of certain Arithmetical Progressions ) by a system of forms representing the classes of a ternary genus , is equal to the weight of a genus of binary forms , of which the determinant is the product , taken negatively , of the given number by the second invariant of the ternary forms .
" By this proposition the determination of the limiting ratio is made to depend on an approximate determination of the weight ( or , which is here the same thing , the number ) of the binary classes of certain series of negative determinants .
Two methods are given in the Paper for effecting this approximate determination .
The first method presupposes Lagrange 's definition of a reduced form , and depends ultimately on the evaluation of the definite integral fff ( z-y ) dx die dzof which the limits are given by the inequalities ?
'0 , y &gt; o , z &gt; 0 , &lt; Oz , 2y-Ke The second inethod employs the expression obtained by Lejeune Dirichlet in the form of an infinite series for the number of binary classes of a given determinant , and is thus independent of the definition of a reduced form .
The same result is obtained by both methods ; but the second is more easily extended to the case of quadratic forms containing more than three indeterminates .
V'OL , XV .

