289 1771 On the Lymphatics of the Mammalian Skin .
j a On the Minute Structure and Relationships of the Lymphatics of the Mammalian Skin , and on the Ultimate Distribution of Nerves to the Epidermis and Subepidermic Lymphatics " By George Hoggan , M.B. , and Frances Elizabeth Hoggan , M.D. Communicated by Dr. William Far , F.R.S. Received May 11 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) The authors state that , by means of certain modifications in known ethods of histological research , a full description of which they offer , ley have been enabled to show the minute structure and relationships of 19 lymphatics of the skin in mammals .
For the purpose of anatomical description , they divide these lymphatics to three categories , named , from their position , the subhypodermic , e dermic , and the subepidermic .
Only the first and third can be de-ribed as layers ; the second consists of horizontal and vertical sets of ssels , extending through the whole thickness of the dermis , and con-scting the other two distinct layers together .
All the lymphatics of the hypodermis , and most of those of the dermis , e valved efferent vessels , without any collecting channels that would ititle them to claim any absorbing function in these portions of the cin , through which they merely pass .
The subepidermic lymphatics are narrow parallel collecting channels , istitute of valves , lying , as their name implies , immediately under the ridermic cells in young animals , although separated from them , as adult te is reached , by bundles of gelatinous tissue .
These are the only idicles of the lymphatics of the skin .
Upon the subepidermic lymphatics they find a rich plexus , formed by nltipolar nerve-cells and non-medullated nerve-fibres , the distribution of hich to the epidermis has been made evident by the same process .
As o acknowledged contractile elements enter into the walls of these lym-hatics , the function of the nerves found upon them cannot be affirmed y the authors .
Neither sweat-glands , sebaceous glands , hair-muscles , fat-cells , nor nerve undies possess any lymphatics , and the papillae in the human skin aie qually destitute of them .
Functionally , the lymphatics of the skin are o be considered as forming two classes , the valved efferent vessels with adependent walls , formed only of crenated endothelium cells , and the alveless collecting channels of the subepidermis , lined by those crenated ells .
Upon the facts accumulated in this and their former paper the authors .re led entirely to reject the theory of vasa serosa or radicles of the ymphatics , formed by chains of connective-tissue cells or the cavities in which they lie .
In the human skin especially these cells of the connec-ive tissue are numerous and in intimate relationship with the superficial 290 Dr. J. Hopkinson on the [ June 14 blood-vessels , but prominently absent from the collecting lymphatic channels lying alongside of these vessels , thus supporting the hypothesis they formerly emitted , that these cells were merely links in a nutritive chain , not radicles of the lymphatics , even when , as in teudon , the cornea , \amp ; c. , they are connected with the lymphatics .
The paper is illustrated by about a dozen and a half of camera-lucida drawings of microscopical specimens in their possession .
II .
" Refractive Indices of Glass .
" By J. Hopkinson , D.Se .
, M.A. Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received May 25 , 1877 .
Most of the following determinations were made two years ago .
They were not published at once , because the results showed more variation than was expected .
They are now made known for two reasons .
Pirst , most ' of the glasses examined are articles of commerce , and can be readily obtained by any person experimenting upon the physical properties of glass ; these glasses only vary within narrow limits , and their variations may be approximately allowed for by a knowledge of their density .
Second , most of the prisms having three angles from each of which determinations were made , the probable error of the mean is very small , and any error of the nature of a blunder is certainly detected .
The form in which to present these results was a matter of much consideration .
A curve giving the refractive indices directly is unsuitable , for the errors of observation are less than the errors of curve-drawing would be .
The theory of dispersion is not in a position to furnish a satisfactory rational formula .
The most frequently used empirical formula is ^=a-)-6\#151 ; -j-c\#151 ; + ... , where n is the wave-length of the ray to which fi refers .
But to bring this within errors of observation it is necessary to include \#151 ; , which appears to be almost as important a term as rv There are two points of importance in the selection of an empirical form : first , it must accurately represent the facts with the use of the fewest arbitrary parameters ; second , it must be practically convenient for the purposes for which the results are useful .
In the present case the most convenient form is / i \#151 ; l*=\#171 ; { l+6a , '(l -f cx ) } , where a ?
is a numerical name for the definite ray of which fi is the refractive index .
In the present paper line F , being intermediate between the strongest luminous and chemical rays , is taken as zero .
Four glasses , Hard Crown , Soft Crown , Right Flint , and Dense Flint , are selected on account of the good accord of the results , and the mean of their refractive indices p is ascertained for each ray ; this is taken as a standard scale in which x=Ji\#151 ; JlE .

