IV .
" On the Nature of the Action of Fired Gunpowder .
" By LYNALL THoMAs , Esq. Communicated by Dr. GRAY .
Received November 17 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) Since the year 1797 , when Count Rumford made his experiments for ascertaining the initial force of fired gunpowder , an account of which appears in the Philosophical Transactions of that year , very little light has been thrown on the subject .
Count Rumford 's experiments , valuable in many respects , afforded indeed nothing conclusive respecting it .
The object of the present paper is to show the unsatisfactory nature of the present theory of the action of gunpowder , and to point out some of the principal errors upon which this theory is based .
For this purpose , the results of various experiments made by the author , and which were repeated in the presence of a Select Committee at Woolwich , are described and explained .
These experiments are held by the author not only to afford complete evidence of the unsoundness of the present theory , but as sufficiently conclusive to serve as a basis for the formation of a new set of formulae , both correct and simple , in place of those at present in use .
The initial action of the fired charge of powder upon the shot , the first movement of the shot itself in the gun , and the force exerted upon the gun by different charges of powder , and , therefore , the actual strength of metal required for the gun , -are circumstances , which , as the author believes , have not only been misunderstood , but for which laws have been assigned directly opposed to the truth .
* From OvXacos , a pouch ; Xew , a lion .
As an instance of this , the hitherto received theory supposes that when a shot is fired from a gun , it acquires its velocity gradually , from the pressure of the elastic fluid generated by the fired powder acting upon it through a certain space .
It is also supposed that the initial pressure of this elastic fluid is the same in all cases ( the quantities of powder being proportional ) , whether the gun from which the shot is fired be large or small ; so that the larger the calibre of the gun , the slower the first movement of the shot is supposed to be .
The result of the following experiment is given to prove that the first of these propositions is incorrect .
The author placed a cast-iron shot 3 inches in diameter and 3 lbs. 14 ozs .
in weight upon a chamber half an inch in diameter and half an inch deep .
This chamber was formed in a block of gun-metal , and contained , when filled , one dram of powder .
Upon lighting the powder , the ball was driven to a height of 5 feet 6 inches ; when the ball was placed at of an inch over the chamber , the charge failed to move it .
From this it is inferred that the first force of the powder is an impulsive force , that is to say , it imparts to the shot at once a finite velocity .
In order to place the matter beyond a doubt , and to ascertain the relative force of different quantities of powder , the author caused a chamber to be made similar in form to , but of twice the linear dimensions of , the former ; he then placed a cast-iron ball of 6 inches in diameter upon the orifice of this chamber , which was filled with powder ; upon firing the latter , the ball was driven up to a height of 11 feet , that is to say , to double the height of the smaller ; the state of the metal in which the chamber was formed also showed the increase in the initial force of the powder : this is considered to be sufficient proof that the last two of the above-mentioned propositions are as incorrect as the first .
Assuming the initial force of the powder to be of an impulsive nature , it is not difficult to understand the increase of force shown in the last-named experiment , inasmuch as a certain time being required for the complete conversion of the powder into an elastic fluid , a quantity contained in a chamber of a similar form , but of greater linear dimensions than another , must ignite in a less comparative time , the linear dimensions increasing in the ratio of the first power , and the quantity of powder increasing in the ratio of the third power , so that the flame will traverse a larger quantity in comparative less time .
Thus it appears that the powder which inflames more rapidly has a much greater initial force , being more concentrated in its action ; a quick burning powder therefore is better for ordnance of small length , such as mortars and iron howitzers .
The different results produced by powder of different quality have , according to the author , been entirely overlooked in the hitherto received theory .
This theory , which considers the secondary force , namely , the elasticity of the fluid only , and takes no account whatever of the enormous impulsive , or initial force , produced by the sudden conversion of the powder into an elastic fluid , is that which regulates the system upon which ordnance are at present constructed ; hence the reason why large guns are so liable to burst , so much so , that it has been said that no gun larger than a 32-pounder is safe to fire .
From the variety of experiments made by the author , he arrives at the conclusion , that when powder is of the same quality , and confined in chambers of similar form , but of different sizes , the initial force varies , within certain limits , in the ratio of w4 ' where w is the weight of the powder and wz of the ball .
Thus were this new theory recognized , the question of the increase of strength with increased thickness of metal , would wear an entirely new aspect .
So far from the metal in large guns diminishing in strength in the proportion assumed , it will be a matter for inquiry how it resists the great strain to which it is subjected , rather than why it yields ; for we find from the experiments described above , that a 68-pounder gun , which has a calibre of twice the diameter of a 9-pounder gun , must , when fired with the same proportionate charge of powder as the latter , continually be subject to as great a strain as the latter would suffer if always fired with the proof charge , which is three times the quantity of the ordinary service charge .

