]\gt ; Disiribution of Frequency of the Barometric Ileight .
491 lines on page 121 from " " The extent\ldquo ; to " " ) .
The capacity of window glass is but little affect by tions of fi.equency at ordinary tempel.atures .
The statement as it stands is hardly likely to mislead as it is obviously incorrect ; it un 1ey that capacity would increase with frequency , On the Distribution of Frequency ( iation and Correlation ) of the Height at diverse tions .
By KARL tRSON , , F.R.S. , University College , Londoll , and Miss ALICE LEE , Bedtord College .
Recelved June 15 , \mdash ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
1 .
Although this papel ' ontains the sults a nlount of arithmetical , which has been progress dul.lng the las last two three , it is not intended the iirst place as a cou bution to the of the Bl.itish Isles .
It espec a iall teuded as an illustration belve hitherto no exacb theory of fiou or of correlation has been apply ied to meteorological , and they elldeavoured to ndi- cate that fruitful results may be obtained from such a when appiied to one branch at of meteorology , mely , barome.th fi.equency .
They wished to deal with a fairly exteuded an easily accessible nlatelal , and this was found in the Observations at Statio ?
Order or der for the Isles .
The " " telegraph\ldquo ; stations would have provided bettel , but it .
less cccssible .
The aufhors have accordingly only dealt three raph stations .
The main body of was from twenty stations of the becolld order , of which , and the emaindel .
distributed round the coast ngland , Wales , and } , as indicated .
a chart accolnpanylllg the ulemoir . .
first object was to mine the ature of tbc frequency distribution .
By mcans of tables and plates it is that it can be debcribod a accuracy accuracy the use of a lised frequency cve of the type\mdash ; a type which bas been fully discussed in a prcvious memoir on skew variation .
A standal.d frequency the itish Isles been belected , it is shown that the frequen distribution es conProf .
Karl Pearson and Miss Alice Lee .
inuously , om this type as we pass from station to station , and appeal .
S fo be fairly uniform along lines which are termed generalised isobars .
If this result should be confirmed , then the positions of these ised isobars would equire a larger series of stations with observations for a longer period of years to dstermine them accurately .
3 .
The authors ' next object was to discover what constants of the barometric frequency suffice to describe it with the least probable .
A somewhat elaborate investigation was accordingly made into the probable errors of the constanls , and four physical quantities , the mean , the variation ( or standard deviation ) , the skewness , and the modal frequency were found to be the constauts , which described a local harometric frequency with the smallest probable errors .
4 .
They ]lave nexb discusssd the chief physical features of a barometric frequency distribution .
( a ) The modal height and the modal frequency are found to possess certain advantages over the mean height and the mean frequency .
Various methods are considered for approximately determining the position of the mode .
The mean modal height Great Britain is shown to be very nearly the standard atmosphere of 30 ( b ) The variability of the barometric height and the skewness of the distribution are discussed at some length .
A formuIa is in terms of the skewness for calculating the probability that the barometer at any station will be in excess or defect of the mode or of the mean .
( c ) A test of the accuracy of the observations for the twenty coast stations is made by attempting to interpolatethe frequency constants of London Cambridge from those of Southampton , Hillington , and St. Leonards .
The results are fairly close when tested with the results for London and Cambridge calculated directly from the tclegra , ph station returns .
5 .
In the second part of the memoir the subject of correlation is dealt with .
It is shown that within the limits of the British Isles there is a very high degree of correlation ( as as between Babbacombe and Churchstoke ) , only sinking to if we take practically the utmost reach of the British lsles .
correlation differs with directions more or less along and more or less perpendicular to the generalised isobal.s , and it is pointed out that this gradual change with direction and distance , combined with clJange owing to the interval of time between obsel.vatlons , enables the meteorologist to find systems of stations with almost every variety of correlation coefficient .
The probable height and probable deviation from that height at aoy given station , based on a knowledge of the heights , contemporaof Frequency of Barometric Height .
493 neous or mot , at one , two , , or more other stations , are considered .
It is indicated that with a proper arrangement of times and distribution of stations it must be possible to make the probable deviation zero 0 nearly zero , and hsnco to predict with very gleat accuracy the height at one ion from knowledge of heights at other selccted stations .
The suggestion is made that this ciple might very possibly be plied to closely predict future baromstric heights a given station from antedated observations at other selected stations .
Various theorems deduced from the generad principles of correlation : thus , it is shown that\mdash ; is ance height for every pair of stations , such that when the rometer stands bove t height at one station it will usually stand it at the other , That for a very considerable number of triplets of stations which positively ] together , that a high barometer at one means usually a high barometer at a , it can stilll ) redicted that if the rometer be at one , fall at the second denotes fall 0 rise resl ) ectiveIy at the member of the triplet .
These principles from ctutd observations at tions in the British Isles .
The memoir concludes with an appendix , giving account of a frequency-recording barometer devised by Mr. G. U. Yule .
The writers hope their my attention to the importance of endering the large mount of barom ltric o tions now made , available for the casy cnlculntion of the tion { corrcIation cocfficicnts .
They considcr chniu of Htations 1ound ] ) continental arca could have their tion for of of time ] otlt , might be donle in the of vcly close prediction of henrtily to thnnk M. R. H. Scobt , ssistance in a vnriety

