496 Mr. S. C. Tisley a new Form [ June 17 .
Correction to Prof. Cayley 's " Eighth Memoir on Q , uantics .
' ; Phil. Trans. Yol .
157 ( 1867 ) .
Received June 26 , 1875 .
The Table for L , M , L ' , M ' , p. 544 , should stand:\#151 ; 72 L = 72 L ' = 24 M ' = .
A3I +1 1-1 .
ABI +3 A2B2C -81 Cl-15 and substituting these values we find for 36a , 36b , \amp ; c. the values given p. 554 ; where in the expression of 36a , the term A2B2C \#151 ; 126 should have been distinguished by an asterisk , to show that there was an alteration in the coefficient , \#151 ; 126 , instead of \#151 ; 36 as given p. 544 .
June 17 , 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Prof. John Casey , Dr. August Dupre , and Dr. James Hector ( whe was elected in 1866 ) were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; L " On a new Eorm of Dynamo-Magneto-Electric Machine .
' ' By S. C. Tisley .
Communicated by W. Spottiswoode , M.A.j Treas .
R.S. Received June 17 , 1875 .
In the first machines constructed by Siemens and Wheatstone in 186 \lt ; ( see Royal Society 's Transactions ) the power of augmenting the magnetism by successive currents , developed from the original residua , magnetism contained in the iron , was fully demonstrated , and it was shown that the power of the machine could thereby be developed to s great extent ; but the only means for obtaining external work was by the insertion in the circuit of a magnet or coil so that the secondary discharge could be utilized .
Sir Charles Wheatstone also showed thaf a great part of the current could be shunted through a platinum wire , care being taken that the resistance of the platinum wire wras sufficient to compel a large part of the current to pass round the electromagnet .
In the same year the writer designed a machine which was made by Mr. Ladd , and described by him in a paper read before this Society ( see Transactions ) , the principle of which was that two separate armatures 1875 .
] of Dynamo-Magneto-Electric Machine .
497 being introduced , one was employed for magnetizing the machine , the other being used for external work .
This machine gave a good electric light \amp ; c. , and was shown in the Exhibition of Paris , 1867 , when a silver medal was awarded for it .
To simplify this machine , the author of this paper afterwards placed the two armatures in the same groove between the poles of the electromagnet , bolting the two together at right angles to each other , so that they came under the influence of the magnetism alternately ; by this method one pair of bearings was sufficient instead of two , and the machine altogether was much simplified .
The machine now about to be described is a still further modification , in which the greatest amount of simplicity and effective power are combined .
The apparatus consists essentially of an electromagnet with shoes , forming a groove in which a Siemens 's armature is made to revolve : this is much the same as the original machines made by Siemens and " Wheatstone ; but the difference occurs in the break or commutator ; here there are two springs or rubbers employed in taking the current off from the commutator .
The commutator consists of three rings : one of these rings is complete for three quarters of the circle , the other quarter being cut away ; another ring is cut away three quarters , leaving the one quarter ; and in between these two rings is a third ring , insulated and connected with the insulated end of the wire wound round the armature ; on this centre ring are projecting pieces , one a quarter of a circle and the other three quarters , so arranged as to complete the two outer circles .
The rubber spring which comes into contact with the quarter of the middle circle is connected with the electromagnet of the machine , and the armature is so arranged that at the time of contact the best magnetizing current is developed .
The other spring rubber is in connexion with the wire on the armature during the other three quarters of its revolution ; and this is connected with any external piece of apparatus required to be worked .
By this arrangement , the alternate currents being utilized , they are all in the same direction ; and by the length of contact the whole of the current is obtained in the best condition for heating wires , decomposing water , giving an electric light , and other usual experiments .
^ I At present a model machine has been constructed on this principle , the armature of which measures 5 inches long by 2 inches diameter , on which is wound about 50 feet of cotton-covered copper wire , no. 16 , W. Q- .
The magnet has about 300 feet of covered copper wire , bo .
14 , B. " W. a. : the whole instrument , without the driving-gear , weighs 26 lbs. ; with this apparatus 8 inches of platinum wire , 005 , be made red-hot , water is rapidly decomposed , \amp ; c. | The armature is constructed specially to prevent the accumulation of heat to which every class of dynamo-magneto-electric machine is liable .
It is 498 Mr. L. Tait on the [ June \7 made in two halves , a groove of a zigzag form being cast in each half so that when the two are screwed together a continuous channel is main tained through the bearings for a current of cold water to pass during the whole time the machine is at work .
The advantages suggested by these arrangements are their extrem simplicity , the few number of parts , only one armature and one wir being used .
This principle of the alternate current being utilized is also applicabl to machines constructed on the multiple armature principle ; and th economy thereby resulting would prove of great advantage , as the powe : of the machine could be varied by throwing into the electromagnet either every other current , or every fourth , sixth , or eighth current according to the strength required in the machine , the whole of the othe currents being utilized for electric light or otherwise .
II .
" Note on the Anatomy of the Umbilical Cord .
" By Lawsot* Tait , F.R.C.S. Communicated by W. S. Savory , F.R.S Received April 28 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) I. Its external form and method of growth .
II .
Its covering .
' .
III .
Its substance .
IV .
Its vessels .
, *- , \lt ; *j V. Its relations to the foetus and placenta .
VI .
Its nutrition .
I. The spiral form of the cord has received many explanations ; bir hitherto none has seemed satisfactory , nor sufficient to explain all the facts The cause of the spiral form has generally been regarded as existing ii the arteries ; but experiment shows that the vein is the chief factor .
The considerations drawn from the comparative and teratological ana tomy of the cord point to the conclusion that its twist must depend upoi some mechanism at the foetal insertion .
Such mechanism is found in a peculiar camb-like growth of the derma ring of the umbilicus , and in an arrangement of capillaries upon which the nutrition of the cord depends , that nutrition being supplied over th venous surface of the cord in about the proportion of three to two oi the arterial surface .
This unequal nutrition would seem necessarily t result in a spiral .
II .
" When the surface of the cord is treated with litmus or hsema toxylin , the epithelial covering is found to consist of a single lay of irregularly polygonal cells , regularly nucleated .
The fibrillar matri1 - on which they lie is evidently only a slightly condensed arrangement o : : the canalicular tissue .
Silver-staining shows that these cells have t. peculiar irregularity in size and arrangement .

