272 Dr. F. W. Pavy .
On the Volumetric Estimation [ June 19 , others or alone , then we shall get an excess in the reversal of the lines special to that particular kind of vapour given off .
It is remarkable from this point of view that I have only succeeded in constantly reversing a triplet in the case of manganese , and that I have only succeeded in reversing a triplet of iron on one or two occasions only .
Comparing these results with those obtained in the case of Na , K , Ca , \amp ; c. , we have here an indication of a considerable physical difference between the metals of the alkalies , for instance , and those of the iron group .
It is also suggested as a result of the application of this new method of experimentation , that in the case of a considerable number of chemical substances not only the line spectrum is compound in its origin , as I suggested many years ago , but that a large number of the lines is due to molecular groupings of considerable complexity , which can be kept out of the reaction by careful low temperature distillation .
Whether these higher molecular groupings are merely larger physical aggregates or whether they be compounds in a stricter sense , hydrides for instance , it may take some time to determine ; but it is obvious that however this may be , the finer vapours may exist uncontaminated with the grosser ones in the incandescent atmosphere of a star ; and I know of no reason why the molecules of such fine vapours should not combine with each other , and if , for the sake of argument , we assume that some of the so-called chemical elements may be thus compounded of those finer vapours which we know to exist in the atmospheres of the hottest stars , then we may expect to find the high temperature spectra of these so-called elements to consist of a complication of lines , due partly to the complex molecules themselves and partly to the finer vapours in question .
XXVIII .
" Supplementary Note on the Volumetric Estimation of Sugar by an Ammoniated Cupric Test giving Reduction without Precipitation .
" By F. W. Pavy , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1879 .
In a communication published in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " ( vol. xxviii , p. 260 ) , I drew attention to the employment of an ammoniated cupric liquid for the volumetric estimation of sugar .
Instead of giving an altogether new formula for this liquid , I recommended it to be prepared from Pehling 's solution with the addition of a certain volume of ammonia and of water .
Under the method of analytical procedure adopted in my laboratory , which consisted in running in the liquid pretty quickly from the burette to near the required point , and then dropping it in slowly , the amount of soda contained in Fehling 's solution proved sufficient to give accurate 1879.1 of Sugar by an Ammoniated Cupric Test .
results .
I have since learnt , however , that if the liqnid to be examined he dropped in slowly throughout , by which a longer time is occupied in the performance of the operation , the result becomes to a certain extent modified .
It appears as though the test under the influence of prolonged ebullition fails to possess the requisite stability .
In the case of Fehling 's solution used in an ordinary way I have long known that when in a diluted state , ebullition alone leads to the occurrence of change , unless an additional amount of alkali be introduced .
A certain strength of alkalinity is required to give the requisite stability to resist the effect of ebullition .
With the ammoniated liquid , it is to be remembered , a state of considerable dilution exists , viz. , to the extent of 120 in 1,000 .
The introduction of a larger amount of fixed alkali into the ammoniated liquid suffices to give it the power to resist the influence of the variation in the method of procedure referred to in conducting the analysis , and it is to make known the fact of the alteration being required , that this communication is presented .
If Fehling 's solution be used in the preparation of the ammoniated liquid , as I originally suggested , the amount of soda employed should be doubled to meet the requirements .
It was on account of Fehling 's solution being so well known a liquid , that I recommended the ammoniated test to be made from it .
Now that a modification has to be introduced , I may state that the copper liquid I have generally been in the habit of using as a sugar test is made with potash instead of soda , and contains a much larger proportion of alkali than what is present in Fehling 's solution .
It has appeared to me that the liquid thus constituted possesses the advantage of greater precision of behaviour , and it may be used for the preparation of the ammoniated test .
The following is the composition recommended:\#151 ; Cupric sulphate . . . . . . .
34 '65 grins .
Potassic sodic tartrate ( Rochelle salt ) . .
170 \#187 ; Potash ... . . . . .
170 " Water to 1 litre .
120 cub. centims. of this liquid are mixed with 300 of strong ammonia ( sp. gr. 0'880 ) and water added to a litre for the ammoniated test , 20 cub. centims. of which stand equivalent to 0*010 grm. of glucose .
XXIX .
" About some General Laws of Animal Life .
" By Nicholas Wagner , Professor of Zoology , University , St. Petersburg .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. [ Publication deferred .
]

