9 .
" Experimental Researches in Electricity . ?
Fifth Series .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Fullerian Professor of Che ?
mistry in the Royal Institution of Great Britain .
The object of the author in this paper is to investigate the nature of electro-chemical decomposition .
From the consideration of the circumstances of difference that mark the electricities obtained from the common electrical machine , and from the voltaic battery , and of which he had already established the theory in preceding papers , he was led to expect that the employment of the former in effecting chemi ?
cal decomposition would exhibit some new conditions of that action , evolve new series of the internal arrangements and changes of the substance under decomposition , and perhaps give efficient powers over matter as yet undecomposed .
For the purpose of greater di ?
stinctness , he divides the inquiry into three heads .
In the first , he treats of some new conditions of electro-chemical decomposition , and shows that that effect does not depend upon the simultaneous action of two metallic plates , since a single pole might be used to effect decomposition ; in which case one or other of the elements liberated passes to that pole , and the other element to the other extremity of the apparatus , the air itself acting as a pole .
In the second , he considers the influence of water in electro-chemical decomposition ; and he combats the opinion that the presence of that fluid is essential to the process is erroneous , and shows that water is merely one of a very numerous class of bodies , by means of which the electric influence is conducted and decomposition effected .
In the third , he enters at large into the investigation of the theory of electro-chemical decom ?
position ; and after discussing at some length the various theories of different writers on this curious subject , he is led to consider the effect in question as produced by an internal corpuscular action , exerted according to the direction of the electrical current , and as being the result of a force either superadded or giving direction to the ordinary chemical affinity of the bodies present ; that is , modifying the affini ?
ties in the particles through which the current is passing , so that they act with greater force in one direction than in another , and consequently cause them to travel , by a series of successive decompositions and recompositions , in opposite directions , so as to be finally disengaged at the boundaries of the decomposing body .
Various experiments are detailed in corroboration of these views , which appear to explain , in a satisfactory manner , all the prominent features of elec ?
tro-chemical decomposition .

