VI .
An Account of a Method for the safe Removal of Ships that have been driven on Shore , and damaged in their Bottoms , to places ( however distant ) for repairing them .
By Mr. William Barnard , Shipbuilder , Grove Street , Deptford ; communicated by Nevil Maskelyne , D. D. F. R. S. and Astronomer Royal .
Read Dec. 23 , 1779 .
Deptford , April 14 , 1779 .
ON the shores of this Island , distinguished for its formidable fleets and extensive commerce , and so particularly situated , there must necessarily be many shipwrecks : every hint by which the distress of our fellow creatures may be alleviated , or any saving of property made to individuals in such situations , should be communicated for their good .
As the members of the Royal Society have it in their power to make such hints most universally known , I have been induced , from their readiness to receive every useful information , to lay before them a particular account of the success attending a method for the safe removal of ships that have been driven on shore , and damaged in their bottoms , to places ( however distant ) for repairing them ; I hope , therefore , they will excuse the liberty I have taken in presenting this to them .
Should the Society honour me by recording it , it will make me the most ample satisfaction for my attention to it , and afford me the greatest pleasure .
On January the 1st , 1779 , in a most dreadful storm , the York East Indiaman , of eight hundred tons , homeward bound , with a pepper cargo , parted her cables in Margate Roads , and was driven on shore , within one hundred feet of the head , and thirty feet of the side , of Margate Pier , then drawing twenty-two feet six inches water , the flow of a good spring tide being only fourteen feet at that place .
On the 3d of the same month I went down , as a shipbuilder , to assist as much as lay in my power my worthy friend Sir RICHARD HOTHAM , to whom the ship belonged .
I found her perfectly upright , and her shere ( or side appearance ) the same as when first built , but sunk to the twelve feet water mark fore and aft in a bed of chalk mixed with a stiff blue clay , exactly the shape of her body below that draft of water ; and from the rudder being torn from her as she struck coming on shore , and the violent agitation of the sea after her being there , her stern was so greatly injured as to admit free access thereto , which filled her for four days equal to the flow of the tide .
Having fully informed myself of her situation and the flow of spring tides , and being clearly of opinion she might be again got off , I recommended , as the first necessary step , the immediate discharge of the cargo ; and , in the progress of that business , I found the tide always flowed to the same height on the ship ; and when the cargo was half discharged , and I knew the remaining part should not make her draw more than eighteen feet water , and while I was observing the water at twenty-two feet six inches by the ship 's marks , she instantly lifted to seventeen feet eight inches , the water and air being before excluded by her pressure on the clay , and the atmosphere acting upon her upper part equal to six hundred tons , which is the weight of water displaced at the difference of those two draughts of water .
The moment the ship lifted , I discovered she had received more damage than was at first apprehended , her leaks being such as filled her from four to eighteen feet water in one hour and a half .
As nothing effectual was to be expected from pumping , several scuttles or holes in the ship 's side were made , and valves fixed thereto , to draw off the water to the lowest ebb of the tide , to facilitate the discharge of the remaining part of the cargo ; and , after many attempts , I succeeded in an external application tion of sheep skins sewed on a sail , and thrust under the bottom , to stop the body of water from rushing so furiously into the ship .
This business effected , moderate pumping enabled us to keep the ship to about six feet water at low water , and by a vigorous effort we could bring the ship so light as ( when the cargo should be all discharged ) to be easily removed into deeper water .
But as the external application might be disturbed by so doing , or totally removed by the agitation of the ship , it was absolutely necessary to provide some permanent security for the lives of those who were to navigate her to the river Thames .
I then recommended , as the cheapest , quickest , and most effectual plan , to lay a deck in the hold , as low as the water could be pumped to , framed so solidly and securely , and caulked so tight as to swim the ship independant of her own leaky bottom .
I herewith send you a drawing of the same , which will give the Society a clearer idea of the business than a long description , which , however , it may be useful to add for the better enabling others to put this method in practice .
Beams of fir timber , twelve inches square , were placed in the hold under every lower deck beam in the ship , as low as the water would permit ; these were in two pieces , for the convenience of getting them down , and also for the better fixing them of an exact length , and well bolted together when in their places .
Over these were laid long Dantzic deals of two inches and an half thick , well nailed and caulked .
Against the ship 's side , all fore and aft , was well nailed a piece of fir , twelve inches broad and six inches thick on the lower , and three inches on the upper edge , to prevent the deck from rising at the side .
Over the deck , at every beam , was laid a cross piece of fir timber , six inches deep and twelve inches broad , reaching from the pillar of the hold to the ship 's side , on which the shores were to be placed to resist the pressure of the water beneath .
On each of these , and against the lower deck beam , at equal distance from the side and middle of the ship , was placed an upright shore , six inches by twelve inches , the lower end let two inches into the cross piece .
From the foot of this shore to the ship 's side , under the end of every lower deck beam , was placed a diagonal shore , six inches by twelve , to ease the ship 's deck of part of the strain by throwing it on the side .
An upright shore , of three inches by twelve , was placed from the end of every cross piece to the lower deck beams at the side ; and one of three inches by twelve on the midship end of every cross piece to the lower deck beam , and nailed to the pillars in the hold .
Two firm tight bulkheads or partitions were made as near the extremes of the ship as possible .
The ceiling or inside plank of the ship was very securely caulked up to the lower deck , and the whole formed a complete ship with a flat bottom within side to swim the outside leaky one ; and that bottom being depressed six feet below the external water , resisted the ship 's weight above it , equal to five hundred and eighty-one tons , and safely conveyed her to the dry dock at Deptford .
Since I wrote the above account , I have been desired to use the same method on a Swedish ship , stranded near Margate on the same day as the York East India-man , and swim her to London .
As this ship is about two hundred and fifty tons , and the execution of the business something different from what was practised with regard to the large ship , I hope it will not be thought improper to describe it .
As this ship 's bottom was so much injured , having lost eight feet of her stern-post and all her keel , several floortimbers being broke , and some of the planks off her bottom , ( so as to leave a hole big enough for a man to come through ) several lower deck beams being likewise broke , and all the pillars in the hold broken and washed away ; I thought it necessary to connect , in some degree , the shattered bottom with the ship 's decks , not only to support the temporary deck by which she was to swim up , but to prevent the bottom being crushed by the weight of the ship when she was put upon blocks in the dry dock : to effect which , after I had put across twelve beams of fir , six inches by twelve , edgeways , one under every lower deck beam of the ship , and well fastened them to the ship 's side , I placed two upright pieces to each beam of six inches by twelve , securely bolted to the sides of the keelson , and scored six inches under the ship 's lower deck beams , and three inches about the beams of the temporary deck , and well fastened to each : then the deck was laid with long two-inch Dantzic deals , and well nailed and caulked ; the ship 's inside plank was well caulked up to the lower deck .
A piece of fir , of twelve inches broad and two inches thick on the upper , and four inches on the lower edge , was well nailed to the ship 's side all fore and aft , and well caulked on both edges to prevent the side of the deck from leaking , or being forced up by the pressure of the water against the deck , a two-inch deal or cross piece was laid over every beam from the ship 's side to the uprights at the middle line ; then , at equal distance from the side and middle line , pieces of six inches square , as long as could be got down , were put all fore and aft on both sides , scored two inches over every cross piece , and well bolted through the cross piece and deck , and into the fir beams .
From this fore and aft piece or ribbon to the ship 's side , and from it to the uprights in the middle , were placed two rows of diagonal shores , six inches square , the heels of which were securely wedged against the fore and aft piece or ribbon , which afforded sufficient support to the temporary deck without any other shores .
Two bulkheads or partitions were built , as far as the fore-mast forward , and mizzen mast aft , well planked , shored , and caulked , to resist the water .
As decks laid in this manner , and in so much hurry as the time of low water requires , will of consequence leak in some degree , and as that leakage , washing from side to side , will cause the ship to lay along , I fixed a twoinch deal , twelve inches broad , edgeways , all fore and aft at the middle line , and well caulked it , to stop half the water on the weather or upper side , when the ship would incline either way , which not only made her stiffer under sail , but facilitated the pumping out the water made by leaks in the deck .
This deck was sixty-three feet long and twenty-three feet broad , and was laid at five feet five inches above the bottom of the keel , or four feet above the top of the floor timbers , and swam the ship at twelve feet five inches water , resisting two hundred and sixteen tons , and containing under it one hundred and twenty-four tons of water , which pressing against the under side of the temporary deck acted as ballast , and brought her safely into the dry dock at Deptford , from the most dangerous situation possible , being partly within and partly without Margute Pier , where she had been left by some Ramsgate men , who had undertaken to remove her from the place where she was stranded to a safer one within Margate A. Beams of Fir 12 inches square feet across in ~ with 12 feet ~ and ~ to each other and to the Ships side one under every Lower deck Beam .
B. Ships Lower deck Beams .
C. ~ of the Deck said with 21/ 2in.deals 36ftlong .
D. A piece of Fir 12 in:broad 86 in:thick well nailed against the Ships side all ~~~ the Deals to prevent the side of the Deck from rising .
E. Pillars in hold about which every half Beam was scored and through which the middle boll of the Beams was driven .
F. Cross ~ of Fir 12 in:broad and 6 in : thick placed over every lower Beam from the pillar in the middle to the side to prevent the nails drawing through the deals ~ to place the Shores upon to support the Deck .
G. Shores 12 in ~by bin~ on every cross piece and let into them 2 in : H. Diagonal shores from the foot of every upright shore G. to the Ships side under every end of Lower deck Beams .
I. Shores of 12 in:by 3 in:from each end of the cross piece to the Lower deck Beams to keep the Cross piece from rising .
K. Shores of 10 in ~ by 3 in .
from the top of the Keelson under every half Beam to prevent the Deck from settling and thereby ~ the shores above .
L. Bulkheads to keep out the ~ in the ~ ends of the Ship .
M. Shores to support Do. .
N. Ships Keelson .
B I GG I E HH DD ~~ FF ~~ AA K B B B MB BB LEEEE FFFF C AAAAA KK K KKKK N 6123456789 10 ~ 20 5 30 5 40 5 50 93 140 5 130 5 120 15 110 5 100 5 90 I I D I I F FF F G G G G C L AAAA IIII of a DECK laid in the Hold of the YORK EAST INDIAMAN to ~ her from MARGATE to LONDON , by ~~ ~ .
~ ~BBBBBBBBBBBB ~EEEEEEEEEEEE ~FFFFFFFFFFFF C ~AAAAAAAAAAAA ~KKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK N ~5 60 5 70 5 80 5 90 5 100 5 110 ~5 80 5 70 5 60 5 50 5 40 5 30 D ~IIIIIIIIIIII ~FFFFFFFFFFFF ~GGGGGGGGGGGG C ~AAAAAAAAAAAA ~IIIIIIIIIIII ~ , ~ ~ ~~ 1779 .
BB BB M B EEEE L FFFF C AAAA K KK KK KK N 110 15 120 5 130 5 140 ~9 30 5 20 15 10 9876543216 I D I I FFF GGG C L AAA III ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ FFBB ~ ~ E C A ~ I ~ ~ HHH H G BBB ~FF DA EAC CA AI ~ 6123456789 10 15 20 5 93 90 5 80 5 70 5 D E C G AA DECK laid in the Hold of the HARDIESSEa Swedish Ship of 2 to ~ her from MARGATE to LONDO N , by William Barnard Deptford April 14th .
1779 HHHHHHHHH BBBBBBBBB CC AAAAAAAAA ~ 30 5 40 5 50 5 60 5 70 60 5 50 5 40 5 30 5 30 D E CCC AAAAAAAAA ~ hip of 250 Tons .
~ 1779 .
H HH G BBB C AAA 1 70 5 80 ~ 90 39 30 15 10 9876543216 D E C AAG BBB

