]\gt ; IV .
The Capacity for Heat o.f Ilfetals at Temperatures , being Account of Experiments per.formed in the Research of the ersity College of South and onmouthshire .
E. H. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , GRIFFITHS , B. Sc. , Fellow of the University of Wales .
April l , \mdash ; Read hIay 1 , 1913 .
CONTENTS .
Section .
Page I. IIItroductory . . . . . .
119 II .
Outline of ratus . . . . .
122 III .
Measurement of temperature . . . . .
126 IV .
Mefflurement of the resistance of the heating coil 131 ement of potential differe1lce . . . . .
137 VI .
The thermal capacity of accessory substan ces 138 VII .
Measurement of mass . . . . .
140 VIII .
Measuremont of time . . . . .
141 IX .
Temperature control of the baths . . . . .
141 X. Methods of experiments\mdash ; ( 1 ) Total heat . . . . .
143 2 ) Intersection . . . . .
147 XI .
Experimental results\mdash ; ( 1 ) ( 3 ) Fe , ( 4 ) ( 5 ) Ag , ( 6 ) Cd , ( 7 ) Sn , 8 ) Pb .
159 XII .
Summary of results . . . . .
170 XIII .
NmRNST'S observations at low temperatures . . . . .
175 APPENDIX I. Discussion of the results . . . . .
178 APPENDIX II .
The relation between melting-points and atomic heats 183 APPENDIX III .
The soldering of glass and quartz tubes to metal 184 SECTION I. Introductory .
A STUDY of the published determinations of the capacity for heat of the elements leads to the conclusion that further information of an accurate nature is desirable .
It will be found that , in most cases , the values are deduced by observations of the heat absorbed or given out when the changes of temperature are large , and the conclusions Published separately , July 28 , derived therefrom are based on the assumption that the relation between the specific heat and the temperature is of a linear order .
Again , some , in fact a large majority , are comparative determinations and dependent on the capacity for heat of other bodies , as , for example , those which assume values for the capacity for heat of water at ordinary temperatures\mdash ; values which we now know to be inaccurate .
experimental difficulties connected with the method of mixtures are considerable and that method has probably been pushed to its extreme limits of accuracy .
The reement between the results obtained by observers , and also between those snlting from repetition by the same observer , is rarely satisfactory .
The temperature changes have , as a rule : been measured by means of mercury thermometers , without a proper appreciation of the difficulties attendant upon the use of those ents for accurate work .
A rtber possible source of uncertainty is the effect of the sudden chilling of a nlctal when rapidly cooled a high temperature .
, experimental conditions have not been varied sufficiently to demonstrate the bsence of suspected causes of error and , according to the chemists , sufficient care been devoted to the detection and elimination of the impurities present in the samples used .
It is true that there are determinations of a high order of accuracy which may not .justly be subject to this criticism , but such examples are few and it is difficult , when comparing the evidence , to assign to each determination its due weight .
As an illustration of the divergences which exist , we append the values given by leading authorities in the case of copper , a metal which does not appear to present any peculiar difficulties and one in which the values obtained by different observers are , on the whole , in better agreement than is the case with other metals .
All the observers agree with the conclusion that the capacity for heat of copper is a function of the temperature , but they differ markedly as to the value of the function .
For example TOMLINSON ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1885 ) gives LORENZ gives values at C. , C. and C. , from which the following expression is obtained:\mdash ; an expression which denotes that the specific heat increases more rapidly than the temperature .
( ' Phys. Zeitschr 4 , 1902 ) gives values at various temperatures between C. and C. , from which the following expression can be deduced:\mdash ; This would give a maximum capacity for heat at a temperature of C. CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
If we consider the endeavours to ascertain the mean capaci over the ran ge to , the same lack of agreement is evident .
For copper we have\mdash ; Temperature range .
Specific heat .
15-100 0-100 At50 17-100 23-100 At50 Observer .
TOMLINSON .
LORENZ .
NACCARI .
TROWBBIDGE .
TILDEN .
GAEDE .
The methods described in this paper , although they doubtless present their own peculiar difficulties , are , we believe , free from many , if not all , of the sources of error above referred to .
The method is briefly indicated in the following numbered paragraphs :\mdash ; 1 .
The energy was supplied electrically and the conclusions are not dependent upon any assumption concerning the capacity for heat of other bodies than those under consideration .
2 .
The substances were raised across a iven temperature through very small ranges of temperature extreme limit range , about .
3 .
These temperature changes were measured by means of differential platinum thermometers , for which purpose these instruments are admirably adapted .
4 .
Large masses of the substances were used , ranging from 1 to 4 5 .
The apparatus was constructed with all its parts duplicated .
The metals examined wers suspended by quartz tubes in similar air-tight brass cases which were placed side by side in a large tank containing rapidly stirred water or oil .
This tank was electrically controlled with great constancy at any given temperature , One of the metal blocks remained at the tank temperature throughout an experiment while the other , having been previously cooled below , was raised to a somewhat similar temperature above it by a supply of heat electrically developed in the centre of the block , the difference in temperature between the two blocks being determined at regular intervals by means of the differential platinum thermomet All changes in the surrounding conditions would therefore affect both blocks equally ; hence , by measuring the difference of temperature only , many possible causes of error were eliminated .
6 .
The equation connecting the various quantities is M. S. where total mass , its specific heat ; the initial temperature , and the final temperature ; , the potential difference at the extremities of the resistance VOL. CCXIII .
coil ; and , the number of thermal units lost or gained during time from sources other than the electrical supply .
In these experiments the values of and were so arranged that was in every case small or negligible , and , if necessary , could be estimated with sufficient accuracy .
7 .
With two exceptions , the samples of metals used were supplied by Messrs. Johnson and Matthey , to whom we wish to express our sincere thanks for the trouble they have taken in the matter .
Their certificate concerning the degree of purity is in each case appended .
Information regarding the remaining metals ( Cu and Fe ) will be found in the sections dealing with those two elements .
8 .
Experiments on identical samples at the same temperature were repeated under very varied conditions , in order to enable us to detect unsuspected sources of experimental error .
Two separate methods of experiment , involving different data and methods of reduction , were employed .
Three different sets of differential platinum thermometers were used .
The rate of heat supply was varied in the ratio of 9 : 1 .
The determination of at a given temperature with a particular sample was in several cases repeated after the lapse of some months ; the quartz tubes and cover were replaced by others of different masses \amp ; c. We were thus enabled to ascertain causes of error which would otherwise have remained undetected ( see p. 139 ) .
9 .
The results of our observations have been deduced from the actual experimental numbers and in no case from " " smoothed clirves The most serious difficulty presented by this method of experiment is that of determining the mean temperature of the block of metal when its temperature is altering .
Temperature gradients must necessarily exist , since equalisation of temperature by stirring is an impossibility .
The manner in which this difficulty was surmounted is described in later sections .
When embarking on this investigation we proposed to extend our range of temperature to the lowest point obtainable by means of liquid air , limiting the inquiry to the study of two or three metals only .
Owing , however , to delay by the contractors in the delivery of the liquid-air plant , we were compelled to postpone that portion of our investigation dealing with temperatures below C. to a later date , and therefore enlarged the scope of our inquiry so as to include the following metals , namely , Aluminium , Iron , Copper , Zinc , Silver , Cadmium , Tin and Lead .
As the data already accumulated concerning the capacity for heat of these metals over the range C. to C. may be useful to other obsorvers , we see no reason for delaying the publication of the work already completed .
SECTION II .
Outline of Apparatus of the Method of Experiment .
A diagrammatic sketch of the apparatus within the tank is indicated in fig. 1 .
*For a full discussion of the reasons for selecting this value of , see oi the 'Thermal Measurement of E. H. GRIFFITHS ( Camb .
Uniy : CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
Sig. 1 .
H. GRiFFtTHS AN1 ) MR. EZER GRIFFIIH@ ON THE As the left-hand portion is a replica of the right , it will suffice to describe the latter only .
The metal ( A ) , whose capacity for heat was to be determined , was cast and then ' ' turned\ldquo ; into the form of a cylinder cm .
long and cm .
in diameter .
This cylinder fitted accurately into a thin copper case ( C ) of mass , apart from the lid , of 149 grms. Thus the actual radiating surface surrounding the metal blocks was similar throughout all experiments .
Two small copper pins attached A in its proper position to the copper lid to which the case was fasf , ened by a copper ring bearing a screw thread .
Three quartz tubes passed through the brass pipes fixed in the lid of the external case , and supported the copper case and block within the outer brass cylinder .
These quartz tubes having been previously platinized were soldered at their lower ends into short copper ferrules which formed parts of the copper lid and at their upper extremities to the top of the brass tubes which , for 7 cm .
of their length , were washed by the tank liquid .
Between the case-lid and the outer brass lid a mica disc of nearly the diameter of the brass cylinder was placed and through it passed the three quartz tubes .
After the metal block had been fixed in its case and pins and ring firmly screwed home , the case and contents were lowered into the outer brass vessel , the edges of the mica disc ( which were slightly padded with cotton wool ) resting on a projecting circular ring ( H ) about cm .
above the top of the copper lid .
Thus the effect of the flow of convection currents from inner to outer case , or vice-versd , was diminished .
The brass lid was firmly screwed down over a lead ring by eight bolts .
After the parts were assembled , the air-tightness of the apparatus was ascertained both by pressure and exhaust tests .
The lateral clearance tween the inner and outer cases was 2 cm .
; the vertical , between the lids , .
; and between the bases , cm .
The volume of air contained in the brass case after insertion of the metal block was about 1500 .
A pressure gauge containing a light oil was connected by means of a 3-way tap with one of the tubes leading from this case to the exterior of the tank .
Observations of the air pressure within the case were taken immediately before and after an experiment .
The air being slightly warmed , the pressure rose during that interval , and thus the presence of any leakage could be detected .
The annular air space could be regarded as the bulb of a constant volume air thermometer , and from the change in pressure during an experiment , the change in the average temperature of the enclosed air could be deduced .
It was found that this change was about one-sixth of that of the contained block .
The approximate magnitude of any correction rendered necessary by the capacity for heat of the contained air could thus be ascertained ( see Section VI In our preliminary experiments the copper case was placed within specially constructed " " vacuum vessels the exterior walls of which fitted closely into the CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
surrounding brass vessels .
The reasons for discarding their use are given on p. 159 .
A cylindrical hole ( K ) , 9 mm. in diameter and 14 cm .
in length , was bored down the centre of each metal block , co-axial with the central quartz tube .
Into this was fitted the " " heating coil the wire of which was wound on a light mica frame of the X section used for platinum thermometers .
The edges of the frame were deeply serrated to prevent any possible contact between the wire and the surrounding metal walls .
This hole was filled , atlow temperatures , with liquid paraffin ( previously boiled and placed in vacuo to drive off volatile constituents ) , and at the higher temperatures with a heavy hydro-carbon oil .
Small mica " " baffle plates\ldquo ; were inserted at intervals into the triangular sections of the mica rack , in such a manner as to deflect the convection currents outwards .
The hole ( depth cm .
, diameter cm co-axial with the left-hand quartz tube , contained one of the differential thermometers , the other being inserted into the corresponding hole in the left-hand block .
The position of the hole was such that about half the total mass of metal was contained in the annular ring whose outer surface was in contact with the copper case , and whose inner passed through the centre of the hole .
The various precautions taken to secure accuracy in the use of these differential thermometers will be described in Section III .
The third hole ( G ) was used for the purposes of cooling the block below the surrounding temperature , by the insertion of a thin-walled glass tube containing ether and connected with a water pump .
When the bath temperature was high the cooling process was a rapid one , but somewhat tedious at lower temperatures .
To prevent the entrance of laboratory air within the brass cases during cooling\mdash ; which , by the deposition of moisture , might have had a serious effect , especially when the tank temperature was C.\mdash ; a current of well-dried air was passed by a branch tube into a larger one ( F ) which formed a continuation of the quartz tube leading to the cooling hole .
This rapid up-flow of dry air was continued until the cooling tube had been withdrawn and replaced by a glass stopper , the lower end of which reached within 3 cm .
of the inner copper lid , and thus prevented convection currents .
Our methods of experiment involved measurements of the following quantities:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Temperature ; ( 2 ) Resistance of heating coil ; ( 3 ) Potential difference at ends of heating coil ; ( 4 ) Mass ; ( 5 ) Time ; ( 6 ) Thermal capacities of such bodies as oil , quartz , \amp ; c. , whose temperature changed with that of the metal blocks .
The validity of our final conclusions is dependent upon the accuracy with which these quantities were determined , and in the following sections will be found a description of the methods adopted for their measurement .
An error of 1 in 1000 in Nos. 1 , 2 , 4 and 5 supra , and an error of 1 in 2000 in No. 3 would affect our final results by per cent. The thermal capacities of the bodies mentioned in ( 6 ) , however , were so small , as compared with the capacities of the blocks , that the effect of an error of 1 to 5 per cent. in their valuation would fall below the per cent. referred to .
We have , however , no reason to suspect that errors approaching such limits exist in any of the measurements above enumerated .
SECTION III .
Measurement of Temperature .
The platinum thermometers were of the standard form , thick platinum leads and compensators connecting the coil with the heads .
All connections , both to the thermometers and the bridge , were made by means of small cups hard soldered to the ends of the leads and containing a fusible metal which expanded on solidification .
The electrical connection thus formed was a perfect one and easily disconnected and re-made .
In our earlier experiments two thermometers , labelled AB and , were used .
The constants of these thermometers have been previously published , and as far as we can detect , show no signs of change over a lapse of 15 years .
Their resistance was ascertained by means of a Callendar and Griffiths " " selftesting\ldquo ; bridge , *containing bare Pt-Ag coils immersed in rapidly stirred oil .
Thus , the temperature of the coils could be ascertained with great accuracy .
The bridge was carefully calibrated at the beginning of this work and all its coils and bridge wire divisions expressed in terms of the mean box unit ; the absolute value of which , for the purposes of temperature measurements , was of no consequence .
The slight inequality ( but 27 parts in 1,000,000 ) of the " " equal arms\ldquo ; ( and ) was ascertained in the usual manner by observations of the apparent alteration in the resistance of a platinum thermometer immersed in ice , caused by exchanging the positions of and The resulting correction has been applied to all our measurements of resistance taken with this box .
All the precautions previously published by one of us were observed , and we do not *Hereafter referred to as " " Box A This bridge was last used in 1900 , and it was then observed that one of its larger coik was showing signs of change .
That coil was replaced by another one , and hence a recalibration of the whole bridge was CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
think it necessary to encumber the paper with a full table of the results .
By the introduction of the new coil , the mean bridge unit ( approximately of an ohm ) suffered alteration .
Hence the values of and for AB and CD differ somewhat from those previously published .
The alteration , however , is in the unit employed , rather than in the thermometers themselves , and the.value of and may be regarded as unchanged .
One addition to the bridge , however , is worthy of mention , as it may be found useful in other cases .
To obtain good contact by means of plugs , considerable pressure has to be exerted .
As the insulating surface holding the brasses ( in this case marble ) is always solnewhat yielding , the tendency of the brasses is to gape and thus contact is only made round a small horizontal section of the plug .
We therefore affixed to each pair of brasses an additional contact maker of the kind shown in fig. 2 .
The spring of the strip AB caused the wedge fastened on its lower surface to spring clear of its twin wedge on the block when the screw-head was sufficiently raised .
The upright holding the screw passed through a slot in the strip without making contact therewith .
The plug being firmly inserted in its hole , the head was tightly screwed down ; thus the wedge surfaces were firmly pressed together , and that with a sliding movement .
The strain on the insulating surface was thus relieved , excellent contact was made by the wedge surfaces , also by the screw connecting the strip with and also by the plug itself By this arrangement consistent results were obtained and one of the troubles of exact resistance measurements eliminated .
The constants of AB and CD were found to be as follows :\mdash ; The difference at C. resulting from the separate standardisations is therefore AB-CD The thermometers were then coupled up differentially and together immersed in the hypsometer .
The differential reading was then found to be The used when observing was one whose scale coefficients , \amp ; c. , had been determined by comparison with a French Standard of the Bureau International in 1896 .
Owing to an accident we had to refill it prior to this work this was done with all the usual precautions .
In the same manner when in Difference when determined separately Difference when determined differentially In the course of such a comparison , eight connections had to be undone , -made separately in sets of four , and then replaced in the first position , i. e. , 12 removals and replacements .
In the one case , a large number of the box coils were in use ; in the other , the wire only .
The identity of the results is sufficient proof of the accuracy of the methods employed .
These thermometer coils were surrounded by very thin walled tubes of Jena glass which fitted closely into the holes in their respective blocks and thermal connection between these tubes and the surrounding walls was assistsd by a thin film of oil of known weight .
Although the observations with AB and CD appeared satisfactory , it was decided , after a considerable number of determinations of specific heats had been made by their means , to alter the conditions and replace them by two other thermometers labelled AA and BB .
In these , the platinum leads were fused through glass heads , while the protecting tube was cut off just above the top of the coils , leaving about cm .
to 2 cm .
of glass projecting into the hole in the metal block .
These thermometers were standardised by temporarily surrounding them with thin tubes containing sufficient oil to completely cover their coils , as we proposed to immerse them similarly when in the blocks .
We afterwards found , however , that the effect of the oil was to increase , rather than decrease , the temperature " " lag Their coils were therefore freed from any traces of oil by washing with ether .
Their temperature then very rapidly responded to changes of temperature in the walls of their cavities , their heat capacity being very small as compared with their areas .
The constants of AA and BB were as follows:\mdash ; After a considerab]e number of experiments had been performed , the glass head of AA was fractured .
It was replaced by another thermometer of the same type which had been in our possession for the last 13 years .
Its resistance , however , was slightly less than that of BB .
It was necessary , therefore , to reduce the latter until the two became approximately equal .
These thermometers were labelled AA ' and BB ' .
Their constants were : * The tubes being wrapped round with threads of asbestos to prevent the passage of convection currents from the cavity , CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF AT ' 1 50 It may here be stated that the results deduced from nents performed with different pairs of thermometers were in excellent agreement , and afforded strong evidence of the accuracy of the temperature measurements .
The twin thermometers were connected in the usual manner , i.e. , the coil of the first in series with the compensator of the second on one side of the , the compensator of the first and the coil of the second being placed on the opposite side .
For the remainin sides of the bridge , several forms of approximately equal arms were used .
All our later experiments were performed with two Pt-Ag coils , wound together on a mica rack and placed in a brass tube containing oil , the tube itself being immersed in a constant temperature tank .
Their resistances at C. were Their resistances could be taken separately , and were determined in ice and also differentially , both at C. and at higher temperatures .
Their continued equality with change of temperature was remarkable .
The galvanometer contact with the junction of and was made on a Pt-Ag wire connecting their ends and situated near the bridge wire .
As both ends of the galvanometer circuit were connected with similarly situated Pt-Ag wires , the magnitude of the thermo-electric effect having its origin in these contacts was diminished .
The Pt-Ag wires were further shielded by the massive casting of brass which carried the contact maker .
During all standardisations and experiments the current through the bridge battery circuit was nuaintained at ampere .
Fig. 3 shows the general arrangement and the approximate resistance of the various arms is indicated when the thermometers are at C. , resistarlces b so arranged as to give nearly the maximum sensitiveness for a give current .
The current through the thermometer coils was less than ampere ; its heating effect was so small that it could be disregardod , both thermometers and , therefore , both blocks of metal equally affected .
The battery key was of the type described in ' Phil. Trans vol. 184 , p. 398 , and re-established the galvanometer circuit after the battery one was broken .
Hence , the * The value of S was determined in the vapour of boiling aniline as the resistance of thermometer AA ' in sulphur vapour would have exceeded the total rallge of our standard marble top box A. The value of 8 was of secondary importance , as we were concerned only with the value of at tank temperatures .
VOL. CCXIII.\mdash ; A. @ DR. .
H. GRIFFITHS AND MR. GRIFFITHS ON THE position of the galvanometer spot when the battery was disconnected was that due to any thermo-electric currents in the bridge and its connections , and thus movement visible the battery circuit was attributable to that circuit only .
The key , however , presented some novel features .
Brass segments were Fig. 3 .
fixed on a vertical spindle in such a manner that when the pointer was at , the galvanometer circuit alone was complete , when through 12 both galvanolneter and battery circuit were established , and on a further rotation through the battery was reversed .
The segments were so devised that induced currents during the " " makes\ldquo ; and " " breaks\ldquo ; would not affect the galvanometer .
The whole series of operations could thus be performed very rapidly by one turn of the spindle .
The galvanolneter was one of the original Paschen type .
Its four coils were wound with wire whose diameters increased with their distance from the centre .
Four coils , each of about 5 ohms and separately adjustable , were used .
It was desirable for the present work to obtain a system whose period of oscillation would be small , which vould rapidly settle to its final position and yet have great sensitiveness .
For such a purpose it is advisable to use a system whose moment of inertia is reduced as far as possible .
The type , constructed by ourselves , consisted of two groups , each containing 18 magnets astatically arranged .
The extreme length of the longer magnets was about mm. The whole system , together with the mirror and the glass fibre , less than .
It was suspended by a quartz thread about 17 cm .
long and between 3 and 4 diameter .
The clearance allowed by the ovals in the coils was but a fi.action of a millimetre and the faces of the coik were almost in contact , these faces being coated with tinfoil , to promote the ping of the oscillations by electro-magnetic induction .
Reckoned on the usual scale , the sensitiveness of this galvanometer could have been easily raised beyond , but by exterior magnetic control we reduced it until by one reversal of battery a de , flection of 1 mm. indicated about as we found that , owing to the wandering of the zero point , a higher degree of sensitiveness detracted from , rather than increased , the accuracy of our observations .
The galvanometer had to be placed at a considerable distance ( about 13 ) CAPACITY FOR 1.31 from the tank , as , if nearer , it esponded to on ( off of the lamps , the changes in the Iletic system of the raph , \amp ; c. It stood on the top of a massive pillar of lnasonry which passed through the floor without contact , and whose foundations were elnbedded deeply below the base of an underground chamber .
The trafFic in Cardiff is heavy , but by taking special precautions , the galvanometer in these circumstances was but little affected .
We found it necessary , howeyer , carefully to guard the system ainst convectio currents .
Every small opening near the suspension was blocked with slips of mica , and tl whole galvallolneter was ellclosed within two separate chalnbers .
of the oscillations usually attributed to earth , we believe , to in , sufficient attention to the effect of convection currents .
As all our temperature measurements were observed in terms of lengths of bridge wire , it is evident that the accuracy obtainable was dependent upon the accuracy of the calibration of that wire .
We notes of a calibration made some ] ago .
Before these observations were begun a careful re-calibration was made in of the " " mean unit\ldquo ; of the marble-top box ( A ) previously referred to .
The galvanometer used on that occasion , however , was not sufficiently sensiti to enable the determination of the smaller inequalities .
The calibration was made in terms of 3 coils in Box , of the approximate value of 1 , 5 , and 10 hundredths of an ohm .
Near the conclusion of our work , a very careful re-calibration was conducted , with the object of ascertaining the accuracy of the earlier one and also of ascertaining if the bridge wire had suffered any iteration through use .
The Paschen galvanometer was employed ; two separate independent calibrations were conducted by the two observel .
S and the results were in remarkable agreement .
It appeared that the calibration over the longer intervals on the .
occasion was correct , thus showing that the wire had not suffered in the Each unit of the wire was then expressed in terlns " " ) A unit\ldquo ; same unit as that used in the tion of the therlnolne1 ) , a table } formed showing the value of a bridge wire unit at regular , in of one Pt degree of each pair of It should here be stated that until the final steps in the reduction of our sults , all temperatures are expressed in the platinum scale .
SECTTON IV .
Re.sistance of Coil .
Our methods of reduction demanded a knowledge of under the actual conditions prevailin during an .
As it was impracticable to stir the oil the coil was immersed , a wire of small temperature coefficient was chosen to reduce to its smallest limits the correction for the heating effect of the on the wire .
DR. E. H. GRIFFITHS AND MR. ZEIt GRIFFITHS ON THE For preliminary experiments a 10-ohm coil of constantall wire was used , but was replaced in the final form of apparatus by a 20-ohm coil of bare manganin wire , as it was essential to eliminate , as far as possible , sources of thermo-electric forces in the potential circuit .
The diameter of the circle in which the wire was formed was approximately 7 mm. ; the number of turns being 59 .
The upper end of the wire coil was situated about 20 mm. below the surface of the block ; two straight manganin leads ( 1 mm. diameter ) projecting from the coil terminated at their upper extremities at the junctions with the current and potential leads .
Both potential and current leads were of manganin , the latter being 1 mm. diameter , and to further diminish the heatin effect of the current , two leads were connected in parallel .
Thus six leads extended up the central quartz tube to a distance of 30 cm .
These leads were insulated by perforated mica discs .
A solid wad of such discs was fixed between the top of the rack and the junctions to the current and potential leads , in order to diminish the passage for convection currents .
As the resistance of the coil had to be observed in situ at each temperature and at frequent intervals , four brass cups , amalgamated inside and coIltaining mercury , were soldered on current and potential leads outside the apparatus ; plugs enabled us to isolate these circuits , when a resistance had to be taken , from the various connections to battery , \amp ; c. Heayy leads from a dial resistance box terminated in a pair of brnss cups alongside those aboye referred to .
If be resistance of coil , and , , , , , current leads , and , , , , , potential leads from cups to coil , then , if we have As the absolute value of was required , the resistance of a reference heatin coil ( of the same construction and about the same value as the one used ) was determined in ice by means of the dial box , and then forwarded to the National Physical Laboratory , where its value was determined in international ohms ; 011 its return we checked our previous determination by the dial box .
This enabled us to reduce our of the resistances of the heating coils used in the to international CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
National Physical Laboratory Report .
" " COIL Immersed in Unstirred Paraffin Oil cooled to C. Testing current t Hence , the factor to convert our box readings to international ohms As the same ratio arms and plugs in the thousand and hundred dials were used in the determination of both coils , any change in the relative values of the dial box Fig. 4 .
Variation of resistance of hcating coil with temperature and time .
Curve ABC , July 18 to October 26 , 1912 .
, December 4 , , December 30 , 1912 .
GHK , January 19 , , February 10 , 1913 .
, February 17 , , , , 19 , 1913 .
NO , , , 23 , , March 2 , 1913 .
since calibration ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 184 , p. 409 ) would not appreciably affect our results .
Fig. 4 shows the variation with temperature of the heating coil and the permanent change by use and exposure to temperatures of about C. Probable error of resistance values is not greater than 2 parts in 100,000.\ldquo ; .
H. RIFFITHS AND MR. GRIFFITHS ON The value of so equires a nall correction , as it includes the entire resistance of the two straigbt leads , mentioned , connecting the upper ends of the coil with potential junctions .
Of the heat generated in these leads , a portion is lost by radiation , \amp ; c. , owing to their projecting .
above the surface of the oil .
The resistance of the leads could not be diminished beyond a certain limit , on account of thermal conduction along them of the heat from the hot oil .
A diameter of 1 .
was decided upon , as the thermal conductivity of a manganin wire of this size would be negligibly small .
A certain amount of heat was developed in these short leads by the current .
That generated in the 20 mm. below the surface of the oil would undoubtedly be absorbed by the oil .
Of the heat generated in the 24 mm. above the oil-surface , it is that about one-half would pass into the block , \amp ; c. , by conduction and by radiation to the ferrules and quartz tubes .
Taking the actual figures :Resistance per millimetre of the wire Hence , resistance of portion aboye the oil surface ohm .
On the above assumption only the heat generated in half of this was , in the case of either lead , effective in heating the block .
We confess that this is merely an assumption , but , with our knowledge of the actual conditions , it appears to be a reasonable one ; moreover an error of 10 per cent. therein would only affect the absolute value of our results by less than 1 part in 10,000 .
of Resistance to Change in the Current .
If is the resistance of the coil when a certain current ( defined later ) is passing through it and is the value determined in the usual manner by the dial resistance ) , then we define by the relation The effect of the temperature rise ( produced by the heating current ) on the resistance of the wire was of course very small in the case of an alloy like manganin ; the resulting correction , however , could be determined with considerable accuracy in the following manner ( see fig. 5 ) .
A series of observations was made in which the current was measured by the ordinary potentiometer method .
Included in the circuit was a 3-ohm coil ( W ) of bare manganin wire immersed in stirred paraffin oil .
It consisted of 4 strands of mm. diameter , in parallel , wound on eight projecting mica plates fixed longitudinally on a wooden drum .
The passage of the maximum current ( ampere ) for intervals of several minutes did not produce any appreciable change in the temperature of the oil .
One observer adjusted the current in the circuit until the potential difference at CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
the ends of the heatin coil was balanced against that of a number of cadmium cells , as in the ordinary method of experiment .
The second observer measured the potential rence at the ends of the 3-ohm coil , by means of a Thomson-Varley potentiometer ( P ) , the readings being taken to about 1 part in 50,000 , by interpolation by galvanometer swin gs .
Fig. 5 . .
Heating in metitl block .
W. Manganin coil ( about 3 ohm ) immersed in oil .
P. Thomson-Varley potentiometer .
and .
Rheostats to adjust current .
B. Main storage battery .
Cd .
Standard cells balanced at ends of .
High-resistance tlvanometer . .
Paschen galvanometer .
Observations were taken when the potential difference at the ellds of the coil was varied in steps from that of three to eight standard cadmium cells .
The temperature of the block was maintained approximately constant by cooling with the ether tube .
of If is the resistance of the 3-ohm coil , , and the current in the circuit is caused by a potential difference of at the ends of the heating coil , and is the resistance of the coil for that value of the current , then Potential difference at the ends of 3-ohm coil is If , , be the potentiometer readin gs corresponding to 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , , number of Cd cells balanced at the ends of the heating coil , then ; where is a constant .
Hence , By plotting \mdash ; since the heating effect is proportional to the square of the electromotive force\mdash ; and the quantity rtically , but reduced in such proportion that for it is urlity , we get the relation between , the increment of resistance , and .
The resulting points fall ( within the limits of experimental error ) 011 the straight .
These observations were repeated when the tank temperatures were C. and C. , and for both the copper and iron blocks .
In the locality of C. the temperature fficient of manganin is positive , as shown by the relation At C. , About C. manganin has a negative coefficient and it was found on reducing the results that was negative .
At C. , These equations represent the extremes of in our range , for at intermediate temperatures , owing to the locus of being concave downwards , the factor was smaller and vanished altogether between C. and C. It may be pointed out that for the highest rate usually employed , , that due to 8 cells , the correction on account of mounted to only 3 parts in 10,000 , corre[sponding to a temperature change in the wire of C. As the values of at both C. and C. indicated that the rise in temperature of the wire depended on only and was independent of all other conditions , we could , from the curve giving the relation between temperature and resistance , calculate the relation between and for any temperature within our range .
The value of was the one directly determined by the dial box when the heating effect was insignificant , the current through the coil bein in that case ampere .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT lectromotirc Force .
The potential difference at the ends of the heating coil was always balanced against an integral number of standard Weston cells in series .
A batch of 25 cells was constructed for use in this investigation , according to the method described by G. A. HULETT The Construction of Standard Cells , \amp ; c. 'Physical Review , ' Vol. XXXII .
, 1911 ) .
The glass work was of the usual form , the platinum leads not being sealed through the glass .
The two limbs extended about 15 cm .
above the cross tube , and were closed by corks ; through these corks passed the electrodes sheathed by capillary tubin , the fine platinum wires projecting 5 mm. beyond the sealed ends .
This mode of construction admits of the cells being directly immersed in water , with the limbs projecting about 7 cm .
above the surface .
The water tank containing them was of considerable capacity and well lagged , the temperature rarely varying by one-fifth of a degree Centigrade per day .
The leads from the cells passed to a switchboard across well insulated supports .
The cells were frequently co.mpared by means of a Thomson-Varley potentiometer with two standard Weston cells constructed by Mr. F. E. SMITH of the National Physical Laboratory .
( We take this opportunity of thanking Mr. F. .
SMIrH for presenting us with these cells .
) Table T. gives the values of the cells in terms of the N.P.L. standard .
All our results are expressed in terms of these standards .
From an examination of the comparisons at various times during the course of fifteen months , we can find no change greater than that which might be attributed to the experimental errors .
TABLE I. Temperature C. The National Physical Laboratory Standards are denoted by symbols * The tables used in the reduction of the observations express the .
of our cells in terms of the standards correct to 1 part in ) VOL. CCXIII .
I DR. { .
H. RIFFITHS AND MR. GRIFFITHS ON tatement receiyed with Weston normal cells ' ' international yolts at C. ature coefficient:\mdash ; \ldquo ; While an experiment was in progress , the current in the heating coil was inually adjusted to keep the balance exact .
This was effected by two rheostats in parallel ; the shunt being of fairly high resistance .
After the preliminary adjustment , the potential balance could be maintained by use of the shunt alone .
The sensibility of the resistance Thomson galvanometer ( 7000 ohms ) in the standard cell circuit was such that a deflection of 1 mm. on the galvanometer scale corresponded to a change in the potential difference of 1 part in 20,000 .
During the course of an experiment , the potential balance could be maintained with great steadiness , the slight oscillations rarely amounting to more than 1 part in 10,000 .
SECTION VI .
Minor for the Thermal of bstances .
In order to facilitate transmission of heat from the heating coil to the metal block , the central hole was , as previously stated , filled at low temperatures with boiled paraffin oil , and at higher temperatures with a heavy hydrocarbon .
The quantity of liquid thus inserted varied slightly with different blocks , the average volume being about 7 c.c. It was therefore necessary to ascertain the thermal capacity of the oils and their approximate variation with temperature .
In the construction of apparatus .
of alloy were used in fixing the quartz tubes to the lid of the copper case first employed , and .
of solder in the second and somewhat heavier lid .
Again , the thermal capacity of the portions of the glass sheaths of the thermometers entered the block had to be allowed for ; the 1nass thus inserted amounted , when thermometer CD was in use , to , and , in the case of AA and AA ' , to allowance had to be made for the heat absorbed by the lower ends of the quartz tubes nich supported the apparatus .
This was a most difficult correction to determine , as it was not possible , , to specify what mass of the quartz could be regarded as raised through the same temperature as the copper lid .
1 .
Heat of Oil .
meall specific heat of the paraffin oil between C. and C. was with ) ueter , by the introduction of about .
of oil sealed in a thiIl glass bulb .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT FERENT TFMPERATURES .
The lmercury drawn into the Bunsen was directly determined from the loss in of a small capsule ; in the first .
of mercul.y ; in the second experiment , \ldquo ; .
of mercury .
The constant assulned was mgr .
mercury per calorie .
The value of the mean specific heat for this was , its density being The mean specific heat of glass was determined in a similar manner and was found to be The specific heat and temperature of the hydrocarbon oil had already been determined Phil. Trarls , , its density being .
As both oils were paraffins , the telnperature coefficients were assumed to be the same , to a first approximation .
2 .
Alloy Solder .
The alloy-fixed lid used only in our earlier experiments the specific heats of certain lnetals at The tmean specific heat of this alloy over the range .
to .
( its melting point bein C. ) was also ascertained by the Bunsen calorimeter and was found to be The soldered lid was used over the C. to C. , hence , both its specific heat and its temperature variations were required .
A block of the sample of solder was cast and lnachined to the same size as the other metal blocks .
Its specific heat at and 9 C. was determined in our apparatus in the same manner as copper , \amp ; c. , On analysis , the composition of the block was found to be per cent. tin and per cent. lead , with bismuth and antimony as impurities .
The density of the solder block was .
The platinulm deposit on the ends of the quartz tubes was negligible , the weight of three coats being only 3 .
Absorbed by the Supporting Tubes .
As previously indicated , two copper lids were used .
The copper alone in the first weighed .
and thin quartz tubes were fixed into its ferrules ( which were 15 mm. in depth ) by fusible alloy .
The copper alone in second lid weighed .
; the tubes were of 1nuch heavier make and fixed with solder .
The masses of the quartz tubes per unit length in the first lid were only three-fifths of those used in the second ; advantage was taken of this difference to determine the effective capacity for heat of that portion of the quartz which might be regarded as rising through the same range as the block of metal .
series of experiments with copper at C. were performed under precisely the same conditions , except that the lid with the lighter tubes was employed in the first , that with the heavier , in the second , series .
From the differences in the capacity for heat resulting from these two series , the difference in the amount which had passed into the tubes could be determined , the capacity of the solder and copper , be.ing known .
Let and bc the respective quartz capacities .
Then , from the experimental results we found ; No doubt , temperature radiant existed along these tubes , } ) the value of thns obtained the " " effective\ldquo ; capacity , i.e. , the number of calories which flowed into ) the nperatnre of the block was raised by C. riso of other experiments at C. , where the conditions were similarly altered , indicated that the accuracy of this " " quartz correction\ldquo ; was sufficient .
4 .
IJeat Absorbed by the Air Within the Brass Vesset .
As stated in ection II .
we were able to measure the average increase in and therefore in telnperature , of this air during an experiment .
The volume being approximately 1500 , the average rise of pressure was mm. Hg , indicatin an increase of temperature of C. The number of calories thus expended equals As the average heat supply during an experiment was about 400 calories , it is evident that this correction would not amount to more than 1 part in 5000 ; we did not consider , therefore , that the accuracy of our necessitated the inclusion of this correction , especially as it could be only determined .
SECTION and Density of thoe Metals .
masses of the blocks varied from 1 to 4 .
The balance used for the larger lnasses was capable of to .
; masses under 100 .
were determined by a Verbeek short-beam balance .
The method of double weighing was used and a correction was applied for the displaced air .
A calibration of the box weights that , relatively , they were correct to a high degree of accuracy ; as , however , the absolute values were required , the 2 kilos .
( from another box ) , and the 1 kilo .
and 100 .
from this box were forwarded to the National Physical Laboratory standardisation .
The kilogram and the 100 weights of our box were found to be exact and the correction on the 2 kilos was as CAPACITY HEAT OF METALS AT ]RENT TRATURES .
Dcnsities .
The densities of the by hing in precautions .
The values were checked by calcnlation the dimensions and weight .
SECTION VIII .
ilIeasurer nent of Time .
only records made during the course of an were of transit of the temperature of the thermometer in the block past brid,.-wire divisions , and as these were effected mechanically by the depression of a key , the could be concentrated on the transits .
The time-recording arrangements may be briefly described as foll o An electrically driven seconds pendulum bob , suspended by an Illval .
rod , at each swing tilted over an exhausted tube bout 2 inches long by diameter , fixed in a frame capable of oscillating about an axis perpendicular to the length of the tube .
As the carriage bearing the tube was unstable about this axis , a slight impulse sent it over from one st.op to the other , causing a small mercury pellet to run down the tnbe and make connection between two platinum wires fused midway into it , thus completing the electro-magnet circuit in the chronograph .
A series of equally spaced dots about 2 cm .
apart on the tape indicated seconds , while the marks of the respective 's keys were recorded on opposite sides of the tape .
By counting and measurin the fraction , the times of transit could be obtained to second .
Although the seconds pendulum kept a fairly constant fitted with a cut-out device to keep its amplitude to a definite limit\mdash ; the absolute rate was determined for each experiment by comparison with a rated chronometer .
* This comparison of the total time also afforded a check on the accuracy of the reading of the tape , always a somewhat laborious process , the lengths of tape used varying from 20 to 60 metres .
SECTION IX .
Control of the Baths .
absolute steadiness of the bath temperature was of prime importance , as our conclusions were based on the assumption that the temperature of the walls surrounding the blocks remained constant throughout an experiment .
* We are indebted to Mr. T. J. Williams , 63 , Bnte Street , Docks , Cardiff , for the loan of this chronometer , and for kindly checking its rate from time to time .
When the values of the specific heat at .
were required , a special tank of 15 gallons capacity and lagged with asphalt was used .
Two screws\mdash ; protected by metal \mdash ; caused a rapid circulation of water through the powdered ice .
For work at higher temperatures this tank was replaced by an oil or water bath , of capacity about 20 gallons , the heat bein supplied by immersed electric radiator lamps .
difficulty was encoulltered in insulating the 200-volt leads of these lamps when the tank-temperature was above C. , owing to the softening of the stretched by continued exposure to hot water .
The cement fastening the caps of the freqnently broke down and entailed the loss of several experiments .
The most satisfactory method of insulation hitherto tried was by clipping a discarded motor tyre tube over the end of the " " diator\ldquo ; lamp , the leads being separated the tube by lengths of glass tubing .
The " " lux\ldquo ; used for the purposes of fine , were insulated by hxing glass tubing of slightly larger diameter over their ends , the joint being closed by a short length of rubber tubing well adhesive tape .
Th erraostats .
We tried a considerable variety of thermostats which oved defective from one cause or another .
The two most satisfactory ones may be iefly described .
The first was composed of thin solid-drawn copper piping inch internal diameter and 16 feet long .
This tube was wound into an oval spiral , so as to SUlTound the two brass cases in the tank ( see fig. 1 ) .
Two glass tubes were soldered into reduction pieces at each end , one terminatin in a tap , the in a -tube mercury .
As the method of constructing these soldered joints is both silnple and effectiye , we have given in Appendix III .
a brief description of process .
Another fornl of thermostat used in a considerable nulnber of determinations consisted of a large branchwork of glass tubes fused together and so distributed as to take the mean temperature of the tank .
The thermostat was filled with toluol , which however proved unsatisfactory at high temperatures , and was replaced by commercial anilin , which in every way seelns to be a suitable liquid for thermostats .
It has a high coefficient of expansion , low viscosity and a high boiling point .
We found it necessary to keep the tap closin the thermostat well greased , otherwise slow leakage and consequent drift of telnperature took place .
* The motion of the mercury in -tube operated a relay , which in turn switched on and off lalnps in the tank .
Both the make and break in the main circuit have some reasons for suspecting that , owing to neglect of this precautio1l , the temperature of the was not maintained with its tccustomed s during some of the groul ) of observations about C. CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
and the relay circuit had a pair of aluminium plates in vatel as shunts , to diminish sparking .
A considerable fraction of the heat necessary to maintain the tank at the required temperature was given by a constant supply , while the relay operated the fine adjustment .
The intermittent lamps were placed close to stirrer , and thus the whole arrangement tended to keep the oscillations of the temperature within narrow limits .
At some temperatures we had thermolneters by which we could detect changes of C. , but when the apparatus was working satisfactorily we at no observed oscillations of this magnitude .
Another circumstance which assisted in ninishing the oscillations was the fact that the stirring was sufficiently vigorous to cause a continual vibration of -tube of the thermostat and so prevent any adhesion of the mercury to the platinum point which established connection with the relay .
SECTION X. ( 1 ) The Total He Method .
The metal under examination was cooled to a temperature lower than that of the tank and the being observed by means of bridge-wire observations , it was stopped when it had passed below the range of the bridge .
The contact-maker was then set at a certain readin , which , for clearness , we will specify as Meanwhile , the " " heating\ldquo ; current was adjusted on an auxiliary coil enclosed in a tube containing oil .
This auxiliary coil was a duplicate of the coil in the metal block and the change-over the one to the other could be effected by the depression of a recording key .
Before transference of the CUlTeIlt , the temperature of the block rose very slowly by radiation , \amp ; c. , and could ) followed by the gradual approach of the galvanollleter spot to its zero mark .
The rate of was of order of Pt per second , consequently the temperature throughout the block was practically uniform .
The moment the temperature had reached the bridge reading , as indicated by the transit of the spot across its zero mark , heating current was switched over , the key at the same time recording the time on the tape .
A slight readjustment of the rheostat was usually required to maintain exact potential balance when the change-over was effected .
Tlle contact-maker of the bridge was set at the next integer , ( the temperature interval from to ) roughly * This was the customary starting point .
The key was so const ] tetl that any time lag between the marking of the tape the for the operation of switching off .
Pt , and after slight adjustment*of the galvanometer spot to its zero mark , the allOlneter key was turned so as to re-establish the bridge current ( ampere ) .
The temperature , as indicated by the movement of the spot , was uniform , its transit was recorded by a tap on the chronograph key .
The cycle of opel.ations was repeated ; the transits of the telnperature across each reading being recorded in succession until the temperature had risen to bridgewire reading , when current was switched over to the auxiliary coil .
After the current had ceased to impart any heat to the metal , the observed temperature continued to rise , on account of excess of heat in the oil , the gradient from the interior to the surface of the metal and the temperature lag of the thermometer .
The metal would , however , after its temperature had risen to a maximum , part with its heat by radiation , \amp ; c. , only , the resulting fall being slow and regular .
This ' ' rise above as we termed it , could be accurately determined by the following procedure:\mdash ; The bridge contact-maker was set above the switching-off point by an amount such that the galvanometer spot moved to near the celltre of the scale before the regular cooling began .
The galvanolneter deflections on reversal of the current were noted , and also ( on the chronograph tape ) the times of the observations , until the deflections had increased beyond the range of the scale .
The value of 1 mm. scale deflection in terms of a bridge-wire unit known , the rate of fall in temperature could be determined , and the tinne-curve P ABCD could be constructed .
of the resulting diagrams for the " " rise \ldquo ; is shown in fig. 6 .
If is the at which the current was switched off , the slope of line , i.e. , rate of uniforl cooling , gives dat required for the determination of the line , and thus the temperature hich the metal wouId ttained , in the absence of radiation , \amp ; c. , can be ascertained .
If produced backwards to meet the temperature ordinate at , then it will be evident that falls on DC produced .
, the due to the residual heat in block , could be determined at the close of each experiment with accuracy .
value rarely exceeded Pt and could be measured to 1 part in 1000 , that is , about 1 in 15,000 of the range .
It may be mentioned that the " " above\ldquo ; for a series of experiments with the same metal under the same conditions were proportional to , to the rate of supply .
The galvanometer system generally required this slight djustment between each observation of transit in order to maintain the spot on the scale zero when the bridge current was broken .
This was effected by the movement of a small subsidiary control the table by the observer , and about .
distant the nometer .
The changes of zero were chiefly those due to variations in the thermoelectric effects in the circuit , with considerable attention to shielding the various junctions we succeeded in diminishing snch changes to .
dimensions , but not altogether eliminate thelu .
Ascertained for each of experiments .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT IPERATURES .
We may here point out that the two fundamental observations which determined the temperature range were taken when the temperature of the metal was steady and practically uniform , the only change taking place that due to the very small rate of rise or fall consequent on radiation , \amp ; c. Fig. 6 .
Risc above \ldquo ; xpcriment 1 June ( standard cells ) .
We have next to con cider any other necessary correction for the effect of radiation during an experiment .
When the current was established at-9 bridge-wire reading , the oil had first to rise in temperature , then a gradient established from centre to surface of block and , when rature b to rise , the thermometer would undoubtedly lag behind the temperature of the walls .
For these reasons , the time of rising through the first bridge-wire division would considerably exceed the times of passing succeeding equal divisions .
It was found that when the temperature had the end of the first bridgewire division , the conditions had ) practically steady , as shown by the fact that in subsidiary experiments in which current was switched off at the end of the first bridge-wire division , the " " rise above\ldquo ; was found to be very nearly the same as when the experiments were completed in the customary manner .
We also investigated , with the smaller currents , the curve the rate of rise of the thermometer throughout this first interval and it appeared that , during the first half of the time of passing through the interval , the thermometer only rose bridge-wire .
Consequently , this reading bridge-wire may be regarded as approximately the mean temperature oughout the time of the first interval .
VOL. CCXIII .
The temperature ranges above and below were so selected that , excluding the first interval , the two ranges were equal and as they were small ( about the times over these ranges were so near equality that the losses and gains due to radiation might be neglected .
* Hence , the only radiation correction required was that which expressed the heat thus received as the metal rose through the first bridge-wire interval .
The true time , however , over that interval was less than the time recorded between the switching on the current and the first transit , owing to the causes of lag above referred to .
As this lag was known in terms of temperature , by the " " rise above it was possible to obtain from it an expression involvin time .
If is the " " rise above\ldquo ; in degrees Pt , average time of rising through 1o Pt when the temperature of the block is risin steadily on account of the heating current , then would be the approximate time , at any part of the range , of moving through the " " rise above\ldquo ; ; this we term the " " time lag\ldquo ; was found to be practically the same for all rates of heating for the same metal .
For example , in the case of copper , 36 seconds ; of silver , 40 seconds .
Hence , the actual time over the first interval was equal to the obsel.ved time ninished by The rate of rise per second due to radiation alone was obtained by two distinct methods , namely:\mdash ; I. By subsidiary experiments in which rate of rise due to radiation alone over the range to was observed ; II .
From the observations of the transits taken during the actual experiment when the conditions were settled .
For , if mass of the substance , specific heat at msthermal capacity of oil , copper case , \amp ; c. , rate of rise due to radiation alone for a difference of Pt between the block and the surroundings , time in seconds , .
of a standard Westoll cell , number of cells balanced , resistance at this temperature corrected for heating effect of the current , * In a previous communication Phil. Trans it was shown that if is the time of rising to from any temperature below that of the tank , and is the time from the lower temperature to an equal range above the tank , then the sum of the losses and gains due to radiation , \amp ; c. , is zero at a time .
In the conditions above indicated , the error due to the assumption that the radiation , \amp ; c. , zero ti1ne was found to be negligible .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
then and Hence The table below shows the values of deduced from the two methods , and their agreement affords strong evidence of the accuracy of the resulting correction .
CadmiumCopperSilver . . .
ethod I Method I Hence , if is the range below , corrected for radiation , and the range above and the " " rise above\ldquo ; after correction for radiation , then Table II .
( p. 148 ) represents a typical series of experiments by the " " total heat\ldquo ; method , the metal bein copper at C. , and the thermometers AB and ( 2 ) The Intersection Method .
The metal having been cooled a considerable distance beyond the limits of the bridge , the current and potential balance were established from five to ten minutes before the temperature came within the bridge range .
This preliminary heating up under the normal conditions of the experiment was essential , as it ensured a steady state of gradient , lag , \amp ; c. , bein established before the commencement of the observations .
The time of transit of the temperature across each bridge wire division was recorded on the chronograph tape , as in the\ldquo ; total heat\ldquo ; experiments .
The current was switched off and the " " rise above\ldquo ; taken in the usual way .
Similar experiments over the same range were performed with various values of ( the number of standard cells balanced at the end of the heatin coil ) .
From these observations the value of at the centre of each scale unit of the TABLE II.\mdash ; " " Total Heat\ldquo ; Method .
Copper at C. Thermometers AB , Mean . . . .
where Column I. date of experiment , II .
( number of standard cells ) , , , III .
( seconds ) , IV .
time over first interval , radiation correction on range , VI .
rise \ldquo ; in degrees Pt , VII .
true range , VIII .
specific heat , IX .
percentage difference from mean .
* The value 09068 for is obtained 011 the assumption that coincides with bridge-wire reading ; if , however , the balancing point was at bridge wire reading , and the range from to bridge wire , then , on account of radiation gain , the above value of requires a correction of .
00005 .
At the time these experiments were made we did not realise the importance of this correction and , consequently , did not determine the balancing point on the bridge with sufficient care ( see p. 151 ) .
In our rough notes made at the time we have values ranging from to bridge wire .
Applying the intersection method\ldquo ; ( see Section X. ( 2 ) to the above experiments , omitting the first two or three transits in each case , we find from the calculated value of that the balancing point should be at bridge wire .
If we assume this value , the correction on is Hence .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
bridge-wire division could be calculated , and also , the slope of the resulting straight line obtained by plotting against If there were no losses or gains by radiation , the resulting lines would be horizontal .
As the rate of rise due to radiation depends solely on the difference of temperature between the metal and the surroundings , the lines representing the observed values of for the various rates of electrical supply have all the same inclination to the horizontal , within the limits of experimental error .
The equation of the line representing an experiment , where standard cells are balanced at the ends of the heating coil , is seen to be where is the observed rate of rise , is the temperature indicated by the thermometer , is the temperature of surroundin envelope , is the lag of the observed temperature for the particular rate behind the temperature of the " " radiating\ldquo ; surface .
( The determination of this lag is discussed below .
) Hence , by dividing throughout by , we have The right-hand side would represent the rate of rise due to the electrical supply with a potential difference of one standard cell .
Hence , if we can determine the particular value of at the temperature which we denote by , when the second term of the equation vanishes , we have the rate of rise due to the electrical supply only .
Plottin against the observed temperature due to the various values of we obtain a series of straight lines whose tangents vary inversely as Now , for each experiment thus plotted , there is a certain point on the line where represents alone , and this would correspond to the temperature at which there are no losses or gains by radiation , , when the mean telnperature of the surface subject to radiation is coincident with the temperature of the surroundings .
As the co-ordinates of this poin are the same for all rates , the lines would intersect at one point if either the observed was the actual temperature of the " " radiating\ldquo ; surface , or the lag was constant for all .
DR. E. H. GRIFFITHS AND MR. EZER GRIFFITHS ON THE The dotted lines in fig. 7 represent a typical case\mdash ; that of copper at C. with thermometer AA .
It will be noticed that the lines representing the higher rates of supply are markedly to the left of those obtained from the lesser values of , indicating that the ' ' lag\ldquo ; increases with the rate of supply , as might be expected .
Fig. 7 .
A study of the " " total heat\ldquo ; experiments led us to the conclusion that the " " rise above\ldquo ; was intimately connected with this\ldquo ; lag Although the entire " " rise above\ldquo ; on switching off could not be solely due to thermometer lag , yet , as a first approximation , it represents the superior limit .
Hence , by shiftin each line parallel to itself to the right by the value of determined at the close of the experiment , we obtained the figure shown in full lines , the result , of course , bein the same as if had been plotted against Owing to observational errors , the lines do not intersect in a single point , but enclose a small area .
In cases where a really satisfactory series of observations has been obtained , however , the area of the triangle ( when three experiments are considered ) is vauishingly small even when the results are plotted on such a scale CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
that 1 cm .
vertically represents a challge of 1 in 2000 in and there are instances where the ordinates of the vertices do not from the mean by more part in 5000 .
This , in onr opinior ) , is the strongest evidence in support of the assumption " " rise above\ldquo ; is practically equal to the " " lag\ldquo ; to the degree of accuracy to which the horizontal scale is required .
We may state here that when plotting the results , we used a scale such that 5 cm .
abscissae represented Pt , the vertical scale , of course , being considerably greater , enabling the fifth figure in the value of to be determined .
In our earlier reductions , we ascertained the mean ordinate by reading the ordinates of all the points of intersection ; for example , for 4 values of , we obtained 6 intersections .
In cases , however , where the angle resulting from two experiments differed but by a small amount , as in the case of and slight error in the inclination of either line might cause a large displacement in the point of intersection .
We therefore adopted a method of reduction*which enabled us to calculate the co-ordinates of the point such that , measured along the ordinate passing through this point , the sum of the moments of inertia of the points of intersection of the several lines with this ordinate is a mini mum about uhis point .
Or , stated otherwise : point so calculated gives , by the method of least squares , the most probable value of the ordin ate of the point of intersection of all the lines ( for a typical example see p. 157 ) .
A large number of determinations of the specific heats of Cu at C. were made by both the " " total heat\ldquo ; and the " " intersection\ldquo ; methods ( see Section XI .
) .
The correspondence between the final results obtained was remarkably close ( the differences in no case exceeding 1 in 1000 ) , and indicated the validity of both methods .
Having satisfied ourselves on this point , we adopted the latter method for all our remaining experiments , as it avoided the following cause of difficulty and delay which was unavoidable in the former .
The removal of our metal block and its replacement by another was a business , requiring considerable , as all the soldered joints in the various electrical circuits had to be separated and relnade , the brass case removed and opened , \amp ; c. It was not possible to complete the operation in less than several hours , and the temperature of the tank necessarily some alteration in the process .
rethe system , small changes in the balancing the , bridge might have occurred , or , at events , the absence of any such changes to be ascertained .
Thus , it wa necessary to allow time for the newly block to settle to the tank temperature , and , as its approach to that temperature was slow asymptotic , at least a day or two had to elapse before the " " zero\ldquo ; point could be ascertained with certainty .
The ] ) tance of this matter is indicated by the fact *For this suggestion we indebted to Mr. G. M. that an error of bridge-wire division in the estimation of the zero point would affect conclusions derived from an experiment of average length by the total heat method by ( in the case of Cu , for example ) 5 parts in 9000 .
In our earlier " " total heat\ldquo ; experiments we had not realized the importance of this zero reading , and this no doubt is the cause of certain discrepancies .
The position of the zero point was , however , of little importance when the intersection method was adopted , for so long as the temperature of the reference block remained unchanged , the effect of any alteration in the zero point was selfeliminated .
The method of reduction is shown by one example , namely , that of copper at with thermometers AA , BB .
The only reason which has guided us in the selection of this out of the 48 similar groups , is that it happens to be first of the groups given in Table XI .
The large amount of arithmetic involved in the reduction of our observations is well illustrated by this example .
of Tables .
number of standard cells balanced on heating coil .
Column I. , bridge readings.\mdash ; The successive points on bridge wire across which transits were taken .
Column II .
\mdash ; Times of transit from chronograph tape .
Column III .
\mdash ; Interval between successive transits .
( If transits observed every bridge wire , as in Experiment IV .
, then for 1 bridge wire calculated .
) Column IV .
.\mdash ; Value in Pt degree of bridge-wire division corresponding to Column V. .
Column VI .
.\mdash ; Temperature at mid-point of , measured from centre of bridge wire .
Column \mdash ; The letters denote the values of taken in pairs , for the purpose of obtainin the slope of the line .
Column VIII.\mdash ; Change in for equal intervals of temperature .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
TABLE III.\mdash ; Experiment I. , June 3 , 1912 .
Number Standard Cells , 5 .
TABLE IV.\mdash ; Experiment II .
, June 1 , 1912 .
Number Standard Cells , 4 .
VOL. CCXIII.\mdash ; A. X TABLE V.\mdash ; Experiment III .
, June 2 , 1912 .
Number Standard Cells , 6 .
TABLE .\mdash ; Experiment IV .
, June 2 , 1912 .
Number Standard Cells , 7 .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
TABLE .\mdash ; Experiment V. , June 2 , 1912 .
Number Standard Cells , 8 .
ifferencef 0 In Experiment I. , 5 cells , for C. II .
, 4 , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , III .
, 6 , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , \ldquo ; IV .
, 7 , , , , , , , , , , , , , .
, 8 , , , , , , , , , , , , , , Hence mean difference for change of Pt Reducing the mean each experiment from C. to C. by this mean tangent and then calculating the values at C. and C. , we obtain the following results:\mdash ; corrections are necessary to make the values of comparable\mdash ; ( 1 ) The change in resistance by change of current ; ( 2 ) The departure of the mean E.M.F. of the group of standard cells used from the standards .
The correction to for these is designated by Cd cell and , the experimental results are now arranged in order of Before proceeding with the next step\mdash ; the determination of mean point of intersection either graphically or by calculation\mdash ; we require the value of the " " rise above\ldquo ; in each experiment .
As an example of the method , we quote that of Experiment IV .
, June 2 , 1912 .
Number standard cells , 7 .
Contact maker of bridge set up Pt beyond switching-off poin TABLE VIII .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
Hence " " Total rise above\ldquo ; C. The figure on p. 145 represents the above data .
* TABLE IX.\mdash ; Calculation of the Co-ordinates of the " " Most Probable Common Point of tersection Shift 0 334 0512 0 .
729 0 .
979 Equation of line after shift applied .
Equation of mean line . . . . .
( 1 ) Multiplying each term by the coefficient of in the same equation , , , , Mean .
( 2 ) Solving equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) for and we have the co-ordinates of the required point Expressing and in absolute measure we have degrees Pt , Hence Pt , * This figure indicates how the " " rise above corrected\ldquo ; can be obtained more simply by the prolongation of a straight line .
A small uncertainty in the value of has but little effect on ; for example , an error of in would only produce an error of 1 in 2000 in the above value of A correction of has to be applied to for the clock rate , which was a losin one of sec. per 1000 .
The distribution of the results of the individual experiments about the " " most probable point of intersection , may be determined by solving the equation of each line for its intersection point with the ordinate through Probable observational error Coefficient of variation per cent. In Tables XI .
to XVIII .
, pp. 161 to 169 , we give the value of ( calculated ) for each group in Column VII .
; the error per cent. ( Column VIII .
) being the coefficient of variation obtained as above .
Fig. 7 , p. 150 , represents the above group of experiments ; the most probable point of intersection obtained by calculation is shown by a large cross .
Attention may be drawn to the fact that no " " smoothed curves\ldquo ; have been used in the above reduction .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFEItENT TEMPERATURES .
Reduction to Specific Heat .
mass copper blockcase grms. , msthermal capacity of oil , quartz , glass and solder resistance of coil E.M.F. standard cell at C. ( Pt ) at C. Hence NOTE .
( Pt ) .
The values of at temperature are obtained from CHAPPUIS and HARKER'S tables , 'Phil .
, p. 114 .
Assuming SECTION XI .
Results .
eriments .
A considerable number of preliminary experiments were performed with a view of testing the apparatus employed and deciding on the most suitable conditions .
Some were carried out with a constantan heating coil of 10 ohms resistance , which was replaced by a manganin coil of wider section and greater resistance .
A large number of experiments were performed with silvered vacuum vessels interposed between the metal blocks and the brass cases .
The results obtained with different rates of energy supply were discordant .
The faster the rate of rise , the lower the value found for the resulting specific heat .
These were roughly proportional to the duration of the heating ; the range being practically the same in all .
The source of this error we traced to the effect of radiation , \amp ; c. , on the inner walls of the vacuum vessel .
This surface received heat by radiation from the block and as it parted with the heat but slowly , its tcmperature rose with that of the block to an extent dependent on the rate of increase of temperature of the metal .
After the removal of the vacuum vessels , the loss or by radiation was dependent on only , as the surrounding walls were now those washed by the tank water and remained at a constant temperature .
Our anxiety to minimize loss or gain of heat from external sources by the interposition of these flasks had led us , when designing the apparatus , to regard the insertion of the non-conducting walls as important ; this precaution , however , was a cause of much loss of and labour .
Explanation of the Column I.\mdash ; The temperature at which experiments were performed .
During our experiments at C. we changed both thermometers and lids ; we have , therefore , in this column indicated the thermometers and lid used .
Letters AA and AA ' , indicate the thermometers referred to in Section III .
Letters , the lighter , and the heavier lid ( see Section VI Where no is given , the thermometer used was AA ' , and lid , Column II.\mdash ; The dates on which the series were performed is given to indicate the results obtained on repetition after lapse of time .
Column III.\mdash ; The number of transits denotes the number of observations of obtained during the experiment .
Column IV.\mdash ; No. Cd Cells.\mdash ; The number of standard Weston cells in series , whose E.M.F. was balanced at the ends of the heatin coil .
Column V. " " Rise Above.\ldquo ; \mdash ; This was determined at the close of each experiment .
line representing an experiment was shifted horizontally by this amount .
Column VI .
Tangents ( Abscissae Pt).\mdash ; The slope of the line with temperature as abscissa .
Absolute valuenumber in Column Column VII.\mdash ; The points of intersection of the lines of various rates with the ordinate through ( see p. 158 ) .
Absolute valuenumber in Column Column VIII.\mdash ; The probable observational error per cent. of the group .
Column IX.\mdash ; The data required for the reduction .
It will be noticed that the mass of the metal block has in some cases changed during the course of the experiment , owin to certain alterations such as enlargin holes , \amp ; c. , which were found necessary .
denotes the capacity for heat of copper case and the group of subsidiary substances , or of the latter only when the block itself is copper .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TABLE XI.\mdash ; Copper .
VOL. CCXIII .
TABLE XII.\mdash ; Aluminium .
VI .
'angents abscissae CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
TABLE XIII.\mdash ; Iron ( Ingot ) .
TABLE XIII .
( continued ) .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
TABLE XIV.\mdash ; Zinc .
TABLE XV.\mdash ; Silver .
VI .
langents bsoissae VI .
angents bsoissae CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
TABLE XVI.\mdash ; Cadmium .
VI .
Tangents ( abscissae mean)VIII .
* Omitting 6 cell experiments on the date 12/ 5/ 12 , we have from other two experiments .
05475 .
DR E. H. GRIFFITHS AND MR. EZER GRIFFITHS ON THE TABLE XVII .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
TABLE XVIII .
Lead .
VOL. COXIII .
SECTION XII .
Summary of Results .
Copper .
The validity of our methods was rigorously tested by the determinations of the specific heat of copper at C. We have already , in the previous sections , discussed the various changes made during the course of these experiments , and the table below summarises the results .
TABLE XIX .
Giving equal weight to each group , we have , probable error per cent. In Tables .
to XXVII .
we summarise our final conclusions .
Messrs. Johnson and Matthey state that the previous treatment of all the metals , except copper and iron , was as follows:\mdash ; The cylinders in every instance were cast , and then allowed to cool , subsequently being turned in a lathe , they were not annealed CAPACITY FOR OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
The data supplied by the manufacturers indicate that the physical condition of the iron is probably distinct from that of the other metals , and this may to some extent account for the marked difference in the rate of change of its and curve over the range C. to 10 C. , as compared with the remaining curves .
We are desirous of maintainin the iron in its present condition until we have investigated its behaviour at low temperatures , but we hope eventually to ascertain the effect of careful annealing on this specimen .
TABLE XX.\mdash ; Copper .
Weight , 3392 grms. Density , ' .
This copper was electrolytically deposited .
Mr. C. T. HEYCOCK writes as follows:\mdash ; " " Cu per cent. Remaining per cent. consists of Pb , Fe , and a very little .
You will be correct in stating that it is of high purity XXI.\mdash ; Aluminium .
Weight , 954 grms. Density , C. 0 22482 .
Messrs. Johnson and Matthey state:\mdash ; " " Aluminium we have reason to believe to be exceptionally pure , say per cent. , with traces of iron With the exceptio1l of one group of three at C. , these experiments were extremely satisfactory , so much so that the fifth figure appears to have some real The perfect agreelnent of the experimental and the curve values is very noticeable .
TABLE XXII.\mdash ; Iron ( Ingot ) .
Weight , 2798 grms. Density , .
This specimen was obtained from the American Rolling Mill Company , who state :\mdash ; ' ' Material rolled from an ingot into a billet ( 4 inches by 4 inches ) , on Bloomin Mill ' ; billet forged into round section at blacksmith 's shop .
Same had no further annealing nor additional heat treatment , other than when rolled and forged Specimen turned down to size in laboratory workshop .
" " Sample from which material was taken and forged shows following analysis:\mdash ; ' ' per cent. , , , ' ' Mn , , " " Silicon , trace ; Fe ( by diff \ldquo ; Cu per cent. , , , , , , Our sincere thanks are due to the American Rolling Mill Company , Middletown , Ohio , U.S.A. , for presentin us with this sample .
TABLE XXIII .
Weight , 2538 grms. Density , Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. Temperature . . . . .
( experimental value ) . . .
Difference from curve per cent. , C. .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
" " Approximately , per cent. Messrs. Johnson and Matthey state:\mdash ; The agreement between the results on repetition at the same temperature was less satisfactory than usual , the extreme difference from the adopted value at C. being per cent. ( see Table TABLE XXIV .
Silver .
Weight , 3783 grms. Density , experimentalTemperature value . . .
Difference from curve per cent. .
Messrs. Johnson and Matthey state:\mdash ; " " Better than fine At C. two ssries of experiments by " " total heat\ldquo ; method were performed\mdash ; With thermometers AB , , ten experiments ; probable error , per cent. ; With thermometers AA , BB , six experiments ; probable error , per cent. ; TABLE XXV.\mdash ; Cadmium .
Weight , 3070 grms. Density , Temperature . . .
( experimental value)Difference from curve Temperature . . .
( experimental value ) Difference from curve Temperature . . .
( experimental value ) Difference from curve .
Messrs. Johnson and Matthey state:\mdash ; " " Fully per cent. pure , with very ' slight traces of iron and zinc .
' " " Series of four total heat experiments at C. , with probable error of per .
gave TABLE XXVI.\mdash ; Tin .
Weight , 2591 grms. Density , Messrs. Johnson and Matthey state:\mdash ; " " Probably analyse to per cent. , with triflin quantities of arsenic , lead , and iron TABLE XXVII.\mdash ; Lead .
Weight , 4016 grms. Density , C. C. .
Messrs. Johnson and Matthey state:\mdash ; " " Approximate to per cent. , with inappreciable traces of arsenic and bismuth The " " probable error\ldquo ; of the various groups with this metal is higher than in the case of other metals .
This is probably an of the low conductivity of lead and the consequent steepness of the thermal gradient within the cylinder .
Fig. 8 represents the increments in specific heat over the range C. to C. , on the assulnption that the specific heat at C. for each metal is represented by unity .
We had hoped to present curves showing the actual values of the specific heat over this range , but the scale required was so large , that we found that , if reduced to the necessary for , they were of little value .
AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
175 Fig. 8 .
Variation with temperature .
( Assuming specific heat at C. as unity .
) A noticeable decrease in the increment of the specific heat of zinc is observable at temperatures above C. , which may have some connection with its challge in physical properties , as zinc becomes malleable about C. For this reason we pushed our examination of this metal up to a temperature of C. Our thanks are due to the Court of the University of Wales for a grant towards the purchase of the specimens of metals .
We are greatly indebted to Mr. EDGAR .
GRIFFITHS , of this College , for his help in the construction of apparatus and in the conduct of the experiments .
SECTION XIII .
Discussion of the Results of NERNST'S Observations at Low [ After the preceding paper was written , it was suggested to us that we should discuss the relation between our experiments over the range to C. and those of NERNST at lower temperatures .
We feel , however , that a discussion of this kin would carry more weight after the completion of our own work at tempel.atures below C. From the brief description of the method by NERNST , it is impossible to estimate the magnitude of any errors arising from the neglect of the loss or gain by radiation , \amp ; c. It must be remembered that boilin liquid air is not at a steady temperature and therefore the metal block suspended within the envelope could not settle to the temperature of the surroundings ; hence , observations of the temperature after switching off the heatin current , afford little information concerning losses or gain by radiation .
NERNST'S experiments , however , had o. no great advantage over those of other observers at lower temperatures , inasmuch as the ranges of temperature employed were small , e.g. , C. When we consider the curvature of the specific heat curve , it is evident that changes of temperature of the order of C. and upwards can give little accurate information as to the value at the centre of such ranges .
Two metals , only , appear to have been examined by NERNST , namely , lead and silver .
For lead he obtained the values of the atomic heat given in column II .
below ; column III .
gives the values calculated from the modified EINSTEIN'S formula ( A ) where is the gas constant , equal to .-calories .
For lead In column IV .
we give values obtained by extrapolation of the parabolic formula representing the locus of our specific heat curve C. to , ( see p. 174 ) .
ATOMIC HEAT.\mdash ; Lead .
Absolute Mean Calculated from formula .
'Journal de Physique , ' tome , 1910 , p. 721 .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT MPERATURES .
It will be seen that for the purpose of representing the experimental results , there is little to choose between the two formulae , the greatest difference from our parabolic formula being less than 1 per cent. which NERNST states to be the probable experimental error in his observations .
The greatest divergence between NERNST'S results and the modified EINSTEIN'S formula amounts to per cent. , and it must be remembered that the empirical terln in that formula was added as a consequence of these experimental numbers .
Thus it appears that , in the case of lead , the simple parabolic formula holds over the range C. to C. absolute .
In the case of silver , NERNST records five observations column .
ATOMIC HEAT.\mdash ; Silver .
3 .
61 4 .
44 4 .
50 5 .
81 I. Absolute temperature .
I. Absolute temperature .
I. Absolute temperature .
I. Absolute temperature .
4 .
43 4 .
40 5 .
73 5 .
92 Iy .
Calculated from GRIFFITHS ' parabolic formula .
If we consider the group about C. , we have the following results:\mdash ; At C. absolute\mdash ; Mean observed value . . . . .
Calculated ( EINSTEIN'S modified formula ) ( GRIFFITHS ' parabolic formula ) Here , again , the conclusions of the different observers are in close agreement .
At the still lower temperatures , the decrease in the observed values is so marked that , assuming the validity of NERNST'S values , the parabolic formula cannot possibly hold good , and we can only conclude that some marked change takes place in the nature of the curve below C. absolute .
We hope to investigate the values of the capacity for heat of silver at some intermediate points in large gap between the groups determined by NERNST .
In conclusion , it is notable that , with the exception of three observations upon silver taken at closely adjacent temperatures , all the values obtained by RNST fall ( within the margin of probable experimental error ) upon the loci of the parabolas which express our experimental results at temperatures .
] VOL. CCXIII . .
2 APPENDIX I. The hypothesis of DULONG and PETIT has undoubtedly been of great service to chemists ; nevertheless , it is acknowledged that , at best , it is but approximately true and that whatever value of the constant is assumed , the number of exceptions at ordinary temperatures , especially in the case of elements of small atomic weights , entitles us to regard it as an indication of a probability rather than as a valid eneralization .
Let us consider the values it would yield , at C. , if we apply it to the metals whose specific heats we have dealt with in this communication , arranged in order of their atomic weights , assuming that Atomic weight specific heat TABLE XXVIII .
Element . .
Our value a C. The increase in the numbers in column , as the atomic weights diminish , is very noticeable .
If we plot the experimental values ( column III .
, supra ) as ordinates and the atomic weights as abscissae , the points lie very evenly about a smooth curve of an exponential type ; Cu being rather low , rather high , and Sn decidedly high .
In order to obtain an expression for the curve , assume ( column III .
) the following values :\mdash ; Al ; mean of Cu and ; and Pb Then the curve drawn through these three points will be found to follow closely a mean path through the above experimental values .
The expression for this curve [ ci CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TABLE XXIX .
( elements arranged in the order of their atomic weights .
) Dl .
H. GRIFFITHS AND MR. ] GRIFFITHS ON THE Hence , if , we obtain , that is , just twice the value found by JoLY for the specific heat of hydrogen at constant volume .
We have endeavoured to ascertain how nearly the values obtained from this expression are in harmony with the conclusions of other observers in the case of elements not included in our list .
It is difficult , however , in regard to the majority of the elements , to consider any conclusion thus arrived at as decisive .
The determinations in the case of the rarer elements have been made with such small quantities that the results are open to suspicion , and , but few investigators have so arranged their temperature ranges as to include C. Where values of for different values of have been given , we have , on the assumption that the changes are of a linear order , deduced the probable values at C. , and in Table XXIX .
, , we have indicated the authority and the temperature ranges from which those values were deduced .
Where no data for such a reduction can be found , we have inserted any values which fall near C. , together with the mid-temperature and the experimental range .
For example , Cs C. ( KARDT , C. to We have given all the information we have TABLE XXX .
Mg Al CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT ERhNT TlIPERATURFS .
been able to gather , concerning the specific he ts of the elements , which to us to carry sufficient weight to ender the deduced values of any service in enquiry ; many of those incJuded should , for the reasons givell in the troductio to this paper , be regarded as rough approximations only .
No has been omitted in connection with which any satisfactory evidence concerning the specific heat at was obtainable .
In columll I. of Table XXX .
, p. 180 , we en umerate those elements in which the agreement between the calculated and the experimental values may be arded as close ( i.e. , within 3 per cent. ) , and we have in each case indicated the perce1ltage difference and its sign .
In column II .
we place those in which the rences vary from 3 to 16 per cent. , including some in which the probable error may t ) of like dimensiol1s ; in column those results which differ so greatly the tlculated as to exclude the possibility of agreement .
In the case of gases , the experimental values are multiplied by 2 .
Reraarks Column I.\mdash ; The sum of the differences and the distribution of the signs show that the experimental values are very evenly distributed about the locus of the curve .
Column II.\mdash ; The experimental values of , Na , and do not appear to be sufficiently established to lend much to the results .
The experimental value of the specific heat of tin at C. , as compared with that of other metals examined by us , is high .
It is a significant fact that tin , at temperatures below C. , tends to into the grey powder form .
[ Since the above was written , we have made determinations of the specific heat of sodium at C. Two different samples were used , and the results were in close agreement , giving the value for the specific heat .
The few experiments at higher temperatures indicate that the increase in specific heat with temperature is considerably greater in the case of sodium than in the other nietals examined by us , and is of the order of per cent. per 1o C. In this connection it should be remembered that sodium has the lowest meltingpoint of all the metals considered in the above table .
] Column III.\mdash ; Two curious coincidences present themselves .
calculated value of is almost exactly four times that of the diamond .
The mean experimental value for amorphous is closely half of the calculated one .
It has been shown example , that the rate of change of as changes , varies markedly for diflerent elements ; hence , any relation such as that denoted by the equation , which holds true iven telll rature , cannot be valid at other temperatures .
There are , therefore , serious difficulties in the way of accepting definite connection between\ldquo ; and " " \ldquo ; at arbitrary temperature such as C. , although it is probable that a large majority of elements are in a stable condition at that It is , however , evident that the curve yields throughout the whole range of atomic weights values of ( of in the case of gases ) which , in the large majority of cases , are within 2 per cent. of the most probable values .
We prefer to postpone any expression of our views on this matter until we are able to ascertain the results of our experiments at low temperatures .
Relation between The curves given in fig. 8 show that the curvature from C. to C. is far more lnalked in the Fe and Al than in any of the remaining metals , with , perhaps , the exception of at the higher temperatures .
If we produce backwards the parabolas which have been found to represent the mean paths over the above range , it is found that the curves of Al and Fe ( if they continue of the same character ) must cross those of the remaining metals before the temperature falls to absolute zero .
If we venture to extrapolate , in order to ascertain the values of given by the respective parabolic equations at C. , we obtain the numbers given in column II .
, Table XXXI .
TABLE XXXI .
PbSnCuCd .
bIean o It appears possible that the values of the specific heats of the last six metals may continue to follow the parabolic paths as the temperature falls to C. , for an * The expression , atomic heat , is obviously an alternative manner of expressing the same relation .
In the case of Zn , the equation is deduced from values found from C. to C. , for reasons given .
CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT TEIsIPERATURES .
exceedingly small error in their coefficients over the range C. to C. would account for considerable discrepancies in the values of their Atomic Heats at absolute zero , the more especially as the resulting values of are multiplied by factors ranging from 63 to 200 .
Experimental errors , however , could not account for such divergent results as those given by Al and Fe , hence either the atomic-heat curves of these two metals undergo change at low temperatures , or their values at absolute zero must be lower than that of the others in the above list .
If we assume the continuity of the paths of the six metals above referred to and deduce their respective specific heats at C. from the mean atomic heat , and for the other two points on the parabola employ the values at C. and C. , we obtain the following equations being expressed in the absolute scale ) Cu , , Ag , Cd , . . . .
, .
If the values of at the various temperatures at which it was mined by us are now deduced from these equations , it will be found that the between the experimental and the calculated values are very small , in instance exceeding per cent. , and in most cases much less .
The remarkable approximation between the hypothetical value of the atomic heat at C. of a body with atomic weight 1 , and the likewise hypothetical value of the atomic heat of this group of metals at absolute , is probably a coincidence , but may possibly be of sonlle significa1lce .
II .
An inspection of the atomic heats of the metals investigated by us indicates that those of low melting-points have high atomic heats .
This is true throughout the range C. to , if the values at any given temperature within that range are * Many equations of an exponential nature , and also of the forms suggested by Professor PERRY ( ' Phil. Trans vol. 194 , pp. 250-255 ) have been investigated , but noue of them fitted the experimental results so closely as the parabola .
considered .
It thus appears as if there was some relation between the temperature of the melting-points and the atomic heats .
In fig. 9 the atomic heats at C. have been plotted as ordinates , and the melting-points as abscissae .
This temperature was selected for comparison as the most reliable data given by other observers have been obtained over temperature ranges including C. as a mean .
Fig. 9 .
[ Determinations made by us since the communication of this paper to the Society give the value of the atomic heat of sodium at C. as , in place of the value shown in the diagram , this latter number having been based on the values of NORDMEYER and BERNOUILLI between C. and C. , and BERNINI'S at and C. ] APPENDIX III .
Soldering to Metal .
The process is identical for glass , quartz and , no doubt , for porcelain .
The end of the glass or quartz tube is painted with a solution of platinum chloride in a volatile oil .
( Solution is sold under the trade name of Liquid Platinum , No. 1 .
) The coating is very gently heated at first , and ths temperature slowly increased , until all the volatile matter has been driven off and a brilliant film of platinum obtained .
The higher the temperature to which the tube is raised , the better the adherence of .
The ) should glow with a dull red light , before being CAPACITY FOR HEAT OF METALS AT DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES .
allowed to cool .
If a thick film is desired , additional coatin can be given .
Care should be taken to prevent contamination by flame-gases ; if this occurs the surface should be brightened by means of ordinary metal polish .
The next step is to " " tin\ldquo ; the surface , and this requires care .
The tube is gently heated and rubbed with a lump of resin ; the solder melted on with a clean solderin iron which should be only sufficiently hot to just melt the solder .
With care the entire platinised surface may be coated with an irregular coatin of solder .
Vigorous rubbing of the surface with the solderin iron should be avoided , as it would probably tear the film away from the glass .
The tube is then ready to be soldered into the metal ferrule which should be " " tinned\ldquo ; on the inside .

