1902 .
] On the Formation of Definite Dust-figures .
285 is reduced by exhausting the value of the source .
A low temperature reduces the value of the injury current by checking the process upon which it depends .
Both extremes , then , reduce the value of the current , but by quite different means .
This being so , there will be a mean temperature around which these two effects are balanced ; at which the value of the source decreases less rapidly than at the higher temperature , and the value of the diffusion process is greater than at the lower temperature , at which , therefore , the injury E.M.F. is best maintained .
This consideration led to the systematic study of the injury current at different steady temperatures , and the sought-for point of best maintained E.M.F. was found to lie between 14 ' and 19 ' C. In the experiments hitherto considered , we have dealt with current , no allowance being made for changes of resistance brought about by altered temperature .
The error , in some cases , was of no great moment , in others , those , namely , where a lowering of- temperature gave an increased injury current ; a correction for altered resistance would but have accentuated the point it was sought to establish .
Blit there are instances in which the error might be serious\#151 ; and it .seemed , therefore , desirable throughout the inquiry to supplement the photographic records by a series of observations , in which measurements of potential by compensation should be taken at frequent intervals .
Such measurements have been undertaken by us , and completely confirm the statements made above .
" On the Formation of Definite Figures by the Deposition of Dust .
" By W. J. Bussell , Pli .
D. , F.B.S. Beceived January 29 , \#151 ; Bead February 19 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) The author shows that when a plate of glass or other material is slightly warmed and allowed to cool for 6 or 7 minutes in a dustladen atmosphere , a clear and definite figure is formed on the plate .
The figure is determined by the form of the plate on which it is deposited .
If a square plate is used then a simple cross is formed , a ray of deposit proceeds from each corner of the plate to the centre .
If the plate be triangular , a ray again proceeds from each corner ; and with an octangular plate an eight-rayed star is formed .
In every case the number and position of the angles of the plate determine the form of the figure .
The dust generally used was that produced by burning magnesium ribbon , but any fine dust acts in the same way and produces the same figures .
286 Dr. AY .
J. Russell .
Formation of [ Jan. 29 , AVith regard to the plate on which the figure is deposited , its composition is not of importance except as a back ground for the dust .
A glass plate for many reasons is best , but the figures form with equal certainty and sharpness on one of copper , or mercury , or ebonite , or India-rubber , or card-board , \amp ; e. In order to heat the plate it may be passed several times over the flame of a lamp , warming it as uniformly as possible , and , if it be a glass plate , until the moisture condensed on the under side has disappeared ; or the plate may be heated by laying it on a copper plate heated to about 120'C .
for 30 minutes , or it may simply be warmed in an air or water bath .
The plate is best supported on three pieces of wire about 1-| inches long , and a receiver filled with the dust , inverted over it and allowed to remain there for 6 or 7 minutes .
In order to obtain symmetrical figures the plate on which they are deposited must be perfectly horizontal , and as they are very sensitive to heat , there must be no unequal heating either of the plate or the surrounding atmosphere while the deposition is taking place .
As long as the plate and the surrounding atmosphere are nearly of the same temperature only very imperfect figures form , but as the temperature rises a more and more nearly perfect figure appears .
If the plate be above 17 ' , indications of pictures are produced when the plate is at a slightly lower temperature than the surrounding atmosphere , but when the difference is 6 ' or more , these indications cease altogether .
Very good pictures are produced by having the plate at 12 ' or more degrees above the dust-laden air , and even when ihe plate is 100 ' or 120 ' above the air , distinct but thin pictures are produced .
The effect of a slight heat below the plate , while the deposit is taking place , is shown to thicken the figure , and distort it in a curious manner and is illustrated by photographs .
Also the effect of radiant heat on these figures is shown by the action of a Bunsen burner at distances of 12 and 26 inches , and of other sources of heat at considerable distances from the plate .
Some singular and complicated effects are 1903 .
] Definite Figures by the Deposition Dost .
2S7 pi'oduced by placing a source of heat above the plate instead of below it .
A large number of experiments are also recorded and illustrated showing the effect which different bodies in the immediate neighbourhood of the plate have on the figures which are formed .
Taking only one case , that of a pin .
When it is placed in contact and at right angles to the plate a definite deposit is produced , and this varies as the pin is moved further and further away , and as it is placed either on a level with plate , or above or below it .
Even when the pin is 6 mm. below the level of the plate , and 2 mm. away from it , a distinct effect is produced .
Again , these dust currents may be influenced in a remarkable way by suspending glasses of different sizes , and at different heights above the plate on which the figures are depositing , and photographs of the figures produced are given .
The effects produced by obstructions of different sizes laid on different parts of the plate are also shown .
It was also found that a current of dust drawn through a tube will form a characteristic figure on a plate , which need not be warmed , as it passes over it .
If the magnesia dust be allowed to settle on a surface of water , about the temperature of 17 ' C. or , on water containing a very small amount of alcohol or glycerine , the deposit which forms on the surface breaks up , by the powder sinking , into a figure of cellular form .
Magnesia dust , which was generally used , undergoes some strange changes .
When first deposited it is removed by the slightest touch , but if the plate be kept for a week or fortnight it may then be softly brushed over without damage to the figure .
Another change which this powder undergoes is shown by collecting it immediately it forms , and examining it under a microscope , when it will be found to consist of irregular shaped and separate particles , but if the collection of the dust be made a few minutes after its formation , it is then seen that the particles are strung together , forming small and irregular fibres .
In the various figures that have been produced the magnesia seems to have assumed this form .

