On a new Varzety in the Breeds of Sheep .
By Colonel David Humphreys , F.R.S. In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read January 14 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 88 .
] The breed here described by Col. Humphreys , first occurred as an accidental variety in the State Qf Massachusetts , about sixteen miles distant from Boston , in the year 1791 ; a lamb was produced , having a singular appearance , from the shortness of its legs ; and by some chance rather than by any particular design , was reserved for breeding .
In the first season only two lambs were yeaned , resembling the father ; but in subsequent years several more were produced , having the same peculiarities ; and a breed was thence established , which , from the shortness of their legs , and comparative length of back , were at first called the Otter breed ; but from a surgeon who afterwards dissected one of them , they were called Ancon , from the elbow-like crookedness of the fore-leg .
Experiments in crossing have in very few instances mixed the qualities of this breed with those of others ; but the singularity of form is so far established , that when both parents are of the true otter or ancon breed , the descendants inherit , almost without exception , their peculiar appearance and properties of form .
When an ancon ewe is impregnated by a common ram , the progeny resembles wholly either the ewe or the ram ; and the same is the consequence of breeding from the common ewe with an ancon ram .
The most obvious difference between the young of this and of other breeds , consists in the shortness and crookedness of their legs , by which , as well as by some general debility of constitution , they become cripples as they advance in age .
The contrast is very striking when a common ewe has twins by an ancon ram , when it sometimes occurs that one is ancon and the other common ; so that one short-legged and one long-legged lamb are seen sucking the same dam at the same time .
In the fleece of the true ancon there seems to be nothing decisively different from common ; but in the ancon-merino , by which is meant the offspring of the merino ram from the ancon ewe , though the shape of the progeny be exactly that of the ewe , its fleece partakes strongly of the silky feel of the merino wool .
When ancons are put into the same enclosure with other sheep , they are observed to keep together , separate from the rest of the flock .
Although they arrive at maturity somewhat later , they are said to live as long as other sheep ; but in consequence of their deformity they can neither run nor jump , and move with a very awkward gait , having their fore-legs always crooked , and their feet turned inwards .
The principal reason for propagating a breed with such appearance of imperfection , has been the advantage that arises from their incapacity to leap over fences .
In that part of the United States where they have been encouraged , there are few commons , no hedges , no shepherds , no dogs to attend the flocks ; and the fences of wood and stone are not sufficient to prevent active sheep from breaking pasture , to the great destruction of adjacent crops .
The advantage , however , in this respect , is counterbalanced by a corresponding inconvenience arising from the same source , namely , the great difficulty of driving such cripples to market , at the same time that they are generally not so fat as others , from the greater labour they undergo in gathering their food .
These objections are indeed such , that since the introduction of Merinoes , which are equally gregarious , quiet , and orderly , in addition to the strong recommendation of their fleeces , the ancon breed appears in danger of becoming wholly extinct ; so that the author had some difficulty in procuring one in Boston to be dissected , for the purpose of sending a skeleton , which accompanied the letter , and was laid before the Society .

