Specimen UNIVERSAE REI NUMMARIAE ANTIQUAE , Or an Essay towards an universal History of ancient Coins and Medails , by Andreas Morellius .
Paris in Octavo 1683 .
THis ingenious and diligent Helvetian , as a fair instance what humane industry may effect , if fixed and resolved , hath already delineated above twenty thousand different and ancient Coins , which is a very considerable part of the sorts reserved in the Cabinets of the Princes of Europe , and alsoe an admirable advantage to the Philologist .
This Specimen divides into fourteen Tables , as into so many curiosities , and is prefac't with the just commendation of the Design , and with a short account of the more famous Collectors of such Antiquity .
Amongst these , since the restoring of Good learning to Europe , none deserves more honour then Hubertus Goltzius ; who , besides the Coins of Augustus and others already published , had drawn off most of the Imperial , vet preserved in the hands of the worthy Councellour Chiflete .
Occo indeed , and since him the very illustrious Count de Biragues , have given the world the writing and Motto 's of several thousands of old Coins , yet without their figures , devises , and moduls .
Here alsoe the candid Morellius largely acknowledges the favours and supply of Doctor Charles Patin , the best deserving in that precious Art of all men now living ; and after a due admiration of the vast store of ancient money and medails in the closets of the most Christian King , and in several noble cabinets at Paris , he distributes the whole stock into these parts or Tomes .
1 .
The Coins of Cities and Kings , before the times of the Caesars , or at least without reference to them .
2 .
The Consular Coins .
3 .
Those of the Roman Emperors .
4 .
The Coins of the Hebrews , Phaenicians , Moors , Parthians , Arabes , Spaniards , Gothes , and others , which either want inseriptions , or are not easy to be interpreted .
Now the series of Coins of the Roman Emperors , partly Greek and partly Latin , descends from Julius Caesar to Heraclius : for after that valiant , though unfortunate Prince , Barbarity invaded the Mint as well as the Empire .
Of these , the Latin are placed , as much as possible , according to order of time .
Because after Gallienus , it is very difficult to adjust the money to the years , although Occo hath attempted it .
But as to the Greek Inscriptions of the same Emperors , which are indeed the greater number , it is most convenient to place them according to the Alphabet of the Cities that coined them ; not neglecting the Chronological descent , where it is certain .
Yet if the order observed for his private use may better please the skilled , he is ready to follow it in the general work .
It is this .
1 .
The Coins of the greatest size .
2 .
The Greek after the Alphabet of the several Cities .
3 .
The Greek bearing the annual Date .
4 .
Inscriptions Military , Historical and Provincial .
5 .
Titles .
6 .
Deities .
7 .
Virtues , Attributes , and Acts .
8 .
Tribuneships and Consulates .
The Metal , Module , Rarity , and Cabinet , is noted upon each Coin : and every Copper Plate contains ~ such Coins : the Geography , Chronology , and Explanation requisite to this large Atcheivement being added to each Plate .
Thus the Preface .
The first Table represents three medails of the greater size .
Whereof the first is the Type of the Community of the XIII Cities of Rhodes in honour of the Emperor T. AElius Hadrianus Antoninus Pius , while Claudius Fronto was Prytanis or Major of Rhodes , Asronha and Pontife : bearing in Reverse the Flambeaux of Ceres drawn by a pair of Dragons , sutable to Ophiusa the more ancient name of that Island .
The next large Coin shows the laureate Crown of Marcus Antoninus , and on the contrary part the Musical Orpheus with his charmed Brutes .
The third opposes to the head of M. Commodus Antoninus , as the consequent and merit of his victories , the harp of Apollo Palatinus .
The second Table likewise gives three large medails : the first supposed of Caracalla or Elagabalus amongst the baser Antonines , though perhaps somewhat ~ , with this special Reverse , ~~~~ ~ ; where also the Emperor stands in devotion before Diana Polymanna of the Ephesians .
The second shows us Probus armed Capapee , and on the other side Adlocutio Augusti , four Barbarian Princes kneeling below his suggestum .
In the last of this Table we have the curled head of the Platonic Philosopher Apuleius , in a Medail turned like our Mill'd-money : on the backside is a Soldier entring a porch adorned with three human heads , I believe the Temple of Mercurius Trismegistus .
Such Philosophical Medails are by the studious referred to the time of Honorius , not higher .
The third Table affords a golden Coin of Gallicnus with the vain Reverse Deo Augusto : with a type Divo Trajano Patri , Father of the Emperor of the same name , and well known in the Jewish wars .
An history of the Trajans we may expect from the admirable Foy-Vaillant , who lately published the series of the Syro-Graecian Kings from their Coins .
Next the Community of Asia , under Cleo Praetor of Sardes , represents the adopted brothers Drusus and Germanicus , one with the Arms of an Augur , the other with those of a Pontife .
The next Table shows us the height of the Gentile madness in the Title Deo Augusto round the laureate head of Octavius .
So in Divus Pater Trajanus , a person well known in the Jewish war .
The following Coin bears the two adopted brothers Drusus and Germanicus with the Instruments of Augur and Pontise , and on the Reverse verse the Dedication by the Sardians under Cleo their Priest and in the name of the Asian Community .
Then two rare and elegant stamps , one of Marciana Trajans sister , reversed with Maltedia blessing her two Daughters and not well represented by Tristan , otherwise the ornament of this Learning : the other of Titiana wife to Pertinax , having on the farther side Victory with L. A. or the first year of that Emperor , who reigned but four Months .
The fourth Table begins with a Coin of the 2 Philips , father and son , and on the averse part Otacilia severa , supposed a Christian Lady .
And after represents Trajanus Decius with Herennia Etruscilla , non Saint Orbiana , Empress and their sons , Etruscus and Hostilian .
The faces of the next Medail are Aur .
Commodus Antoninus , and the parent of Greek Literature OMHPO~ NIKAI~N , seated on his Parnassus , and thus honored by the Bithynians .
The like is done under the same Emperor by the Samians for their excellent Pythagoras , pointing in the Coin to the Celestial Globe mounted on a Column .
Then we have Hero and Leander of the Abydenes from the Cabinet of Cardinal Maximus ; and lastly from the Treasure of the French King , the Edessene Governor Abgarus ~~ in some Medails , standing and offering the image of Victory , and thereby the Parthian submission , to one of the Gordians sitting on his Imperial Throne .
For the Roman Empire consisted of free Cities , Provinces , and dependent Kingdoms .
The next Table commences with Trajane , in the L. IE .
or fifteenth year of his Empire saluted by Alexandria bearing ( usually ) her Elephantine head-peice , and two ears of Corn , noting the Frumentum Alexandrinum .
Next you have from the Palace of the present Emperor Leopold three horsmen with Adventus Augustorum , relating to the third Consulship of Severus at the end of the Parthian war .
Then follows a most specious Coin of Faustina , wife of the Pious Antonine , consecrated and drawn ex Senatusconsulto by a couple of Elephants .
Against the head of Antoninus Caracalla Tr. P. VII .
is expressed from a Coin of the most Christian King , the Triumphal Arch of Severus and Caracalla , so industriously described from the original structure by Benitinus and Bartolus .
Passing by Galliena 's Vow Jovi Victori , and Probus his reverse Origini Aug. with the Wolf and first pair of Romans : an Eagle rounded with ~ shows the consecration of ~ ~ ~ , in a Coin of Mr. Warner of Berne .
This Table ends with the Felix Processus Consulatus VI .
of the great Constantine , a rare monument in the hands of the Sieur de Monieux .
The sixt plate begins with Trajane ~ TH~ ~ , meaning the monument of his Dacic Victory , the Nicopolis with her towring head on the Averse .
And is succeeded of Julia Pia Augusta , or Julia Domna , mother of the Emperors , mother of the Senate and of the Country .
I omit the arrogant or undeserved titles of Valerian and Gallien , as Restitutor generis humani &amp; conservator pietatis : as also Vespasian 's Adsertor libertatis publicae , within an Oken-wreath : to hasten to the Golden medail of the most noble Constantine inscribed Salus &amp; Spes Reipublicae , stamped at Heraclea , and weighing six ordinary Aurei of the same Emperor .
This we owe to the Caesarean Treasury at Vienna .
In the seventh we have Nero 's Jupiter Olympius , Nero 's Jupiter Liberator C. P. i. e. Coloniae Patrensis , Trajans ~ ~ stamped at Pergamus , and Domitians Reverse with the Eagle and thunder ~ ~ .
Then against the head of Titus Vespasianus , that of the Alexandrian Serapis cum modiolo , dated L. P. or the third year of Titus .
Of the Deity , so propitious to Vespasian , Morellius will give the public in his Great work fourscore different Ectypes .
Considerable are the Apollo Sanctus of Pescenninus Niger , and the ~~ of the Nicaeans , near of kin to ~sculapius , in a Philosophical habit , behind the head of Anroninus Pius , and lastly the Bonus Genius of Galerius Maximinus , stamped at Alexandria with the ensign 's of plenty and a moon crescent .
The eighth Table exposes the Ercules , or Hercules Victor of ~milian , Nero 's Hercules Augustus from his Colonia Patrensis , the two Postumi their Libyan Hercules with Antaeus , and Erymantian with the bore : then against the head of Aurelius Verus , the serpent Glyco , the devise of the false Prophet Alexander , magnified by the Paphlagonians , especially at Jonopolis , that is Abonopolis , and sufficiently derided by Lucian the Sophiste .
Besides these , the ~~ with a female towring head , the figure of Moneta with her scales and cornucopia , circumscribed with Metalli Ulpiani Pannonici , which mines are yet valuable to the Roman Emperor .
And , to conclude , the Victoria Carpica , not Cardica of Philip .
The ~ .
plate contains Nero 's Diana Laphria or venatrix with her bow , Diana Leucophry 's Polymanna of the Magnesians in honour of Hadrian , a very beautiful figure of ~~ with Neros head on the front , the Nemesis of Tianum with a wheel at her feet , an excellent Ectype of the Temple of Venus Paphia amongst the Sardians , and on the back of Salonina an inscription and statue Beneri genetrici , as in ancient Coins occurs .
Jubentus Bolcanus , Renobatus , Bixit , &amp;c. This deity Julius Caesar honoured with a Breastplate made with British Pearls .
Then Hispania with a rabbit at her feet ( Saphan in Hebrew : whence the Learned Bochart derives the name of the Country ) stamped in the second Consulate ~ Antoninus Pius , and at last in honour of Maximian , Gaudete Romani .
Sic xx .
fic xxx .
upon the ~ of the Prince .
The tenth Table first honours Augustus Caesar with ~ KTICTHS of the Nicopolitans , ~ hose ensign was the head of the Calcydonian bore ; and also with a stamp at Mylasa ~ ~ , referring to the stories of Labienus reported by Strabo lib. XIV Then we have two Coins of Gallienus embellsh 'd with the dignity of Sidae metropolis of Pamphylia : and against the head of Aur .
Antoninus Sagalassus of the Lacedaemonians , Plenty crowning that Emperor:and on the reverse of Gordian , Seleucia ad Calycadnum libera , a fair Greek Coin amongst the many of the French King .
The XI .
Table begins with a Greek Coin of Antoninus Pius II .
~ .
reversed with the image of Tarsus metropolis of Cilicia , holding ears of corn in her right hand , and treading upon the riverCydnus .
The next expresses Commodus 's Laodicea , the rivers Lycus and Caprus running beneath : then Severus his Diana of the Ephesians , beset with the waters of Cayster and Cenchrius , amongst the rarities of the famous Patin : and averse from Julia Domna , the river Rhodius of the Dardanii ; and also in another Coin of the same Lady , Sagaris of the Nicaeans , and opposite to Geta , Scamander of the Ilienses .
And concludes with a Coin of Hadrian , whose reverse shows Marsyas Cibotus Apamensium : near which part of Phrygia some will have Noahs Arke to rest , as the learned Falconerius in his discourse de Nummo Apamensi .
In the XII .
Table , behind a cut of Trajan is ~~ ~~ .
L. K. or in the 20 .
year of his Empire .
Then a copper Coin of Otho with ~ , bearing a cap on her head and a garland in her hand .
A medail of Antoninus Pius with the Egyptian ~ , holding corn in her apron , and leaning upon a Sphinx , stamped L. B. Next Hadrian s~ Spes cos. III .
upon the adoption of AElius Caesar .
And also Commodi magnisicentia ; and yet higher , The world is happy in Commodus , say the Nicaeans , ~~~~ ~ .
To this , an excellent Coin of Caracalla , reversd with the four boys for the seasons of the year , ~ ~ , bearing the flowerbasket of the spring , the sickle of summer , the grapes and ~ of autumn , and the closegarment of winter .
And in the 3d .
Consulate of Hadrian , a golden Coin with Jupiter in a circle , bearing a bird or Phaenix on a globe , and underneath ~ .
The XIII and XIV Tables contain several ancient Games , as the Asclepia , Soteria , Isthmia and Pyihia of Caracalla at Ancyra .
Then Commodiana of the N caeans : and Severiana of the Perinthians and the Philadelphia of the same .
Next Severiana and Philadelphia of the Nicaeans : the ~ and Pythia under Julius ~ in the reign of Caracalla and in the time of Gordian the ~ of Thessalonica : most of these represented with their urns and palin 's .
The Theogomia ~ of Valerian , in the ~ of Mr Nedham an English Gentleman .
The Agon ~~ at Tarsus , Hadrians ~ Pincensia : and that memorable Coin in the third Consulate , and XII .
Tribunship of Severus , where Bacchus and Herc ues stand circumscribed with Ludos saeculares fecit , to wit anno Romae 950 .
Christi 205 .
Chilone &amp; Libone coss .
: 15 .
years after Domitian 's Seculars , as Censorinus rightly : not cx as Zosimus reckons .
The 15 .
Table affords Cyzicus King of Propontis : Rex Juba Junior , and his wife Cleopatra , Daughter of Antonies Cleopatra:and a rare head of a Parthian King with the gloriousTitles of ~~~~~~~ ~ .
And lastly a Coin of Joseph fil .
Job Salahodin , the scourge of Christianity , and occasion of the Decimae Saladinae decreed in the Council at Paris 1188 .
This and 60 .
other Arabic medails are preserved in the Library of St Genovese at Paris .
The 16 .
Table commences with a rare Greek Coin from the Euxine ~ ~ , and on the back a bunch of grapes ~~.And followed with the horned head of ~ ~ , named from Ham Noahs son , the stamp of the Mytilenians under the Praetor Valerius Aristomachus : this with the figure of the ~~ or the Senate , viz a Senators head wreathed , like to the description of the same in Dio .
And at last a choice Coin of ~ ~ , encloseing in a garland their feasts and plays in honour of Latona , ~ ~ , meaning the Meandrian Tripolis As for Hebrew Coins he finds very few genuine in the Princes cabinets ; but many Punic and Parthic .
Of French Coins the illustrious Harley hatli the best store : and Ant Augustinus will serve well for the Spanish .
Then he shuts up his Specimen with 4 .
Coins , viz : Ossa Rex Mecricrum , Voicae ~ , Obulco Hispanorum , and a Punic Coin with a sow and pigs , and with characters like the Samaritan Besides , two learned letters of his Excellence Ezechiel Spanheme honour this Specimen .
An account of the reprinting of Johannes Goedartius DE INSECTIS ; cum Appendice ad HISTORIAM ANIMALIUM ANGLIAE , by Martin Lister M D. and F. R. S. IT was desired that Goedartius and the Notes I had added , might be again printed in Latin , which for some reasons I suffered ; and put it into the hands of one to do it , who had performed it better , but that sickness prevented him in the Task .
Having yielded that , I was willing to print with it a second Edition of the Appendix to the History of English Animals , having some few things with two Plates of Figures to add , which are new , besides amendments .
Also not knowing , but I might be prevented my self either with sickness , or otherwise , I did permit the same Stationer to print off 4 Plates more , which I had by me , very exquisitly designed , of the Beetles of England ; and having not the leisure to transcribe and perfect the Tract to which they belonged , I did neither number , nor explain them , and therefore I call them Mute Tables : yet I am desirous thereby to encourage , and recommend even bare and naked designs of the things of Nature ; that such persons as are wealthy and much at leisure , and are only willing to please themselves with elegancy of Picture , may do good to posterity , in seeing that part of Natural History well performed , which otherwise is scarce in the power of private men ; whose industry and studies are very often at a loss for want of that necessary help ; which if well done , might be by them referred too .
In the Appendix , besides the additions , the whole genus of ~ fluviatiles is new described with more exactness .
Also the Pholas kind ( that is , a certain sort of shel-sish ) fast enclosed , and that naturally , in submarine Rock 's is much enlarged , and the Animals themselves are figured in some of them : by which a great objection is an~ , of those who assert aequivocal generation , for that these are enclosed in the Rock , every one in a single hole of its own making , so that it was difficult to imagine how they could copulate ; but by the figure we are eased of this doubt , for each Animal hath a long body naturally exerted and extendable to a great length , as may be seen if they are put alive into water ; so that we may well imagine , they couple not unlike earthworms , which come out of the ground for that purpose , and extend as much of their body as is necessary to meet a Mate ; which if it happen to be near , their bodies are most within the ground , if farthar distant , they are accordingly extended .
And after this manner we must think of the Solen kind ; which are a sort of shell-fish deep bedded in sand , as the other is in the Rock : these , I say , rise up at certain seasons , and by the like body extended , copulate .

