326 Dr. Watney .
Minute Anatomy of the Thymus .
[ Jan. 2( ) tion , at the same time that it differs from those composing both th digitigrade and pinniped sections of the carnivora , inasmuch as at on spot the placenta presents a deficiency or gap , at which spot the pla cental structure is imperfect .
( 4 .
) That Procyon agrees with Canis , at the same time that it differ from Felis , in the absence of a continuous layer of decidua serotina from the uterine surface of the detached placenta .
( 5 .
) That Procyon differs from every other carnivore , the placenta o which has been minutely examined , in the possession of placenta vessels possessed of a structure hitherto only met with in the placent ?
of Choloepus Hoffmanni among the Edentates .
( 6 .
) That Procyon differs from every other carnivore , the foetus o which has been hitherto examined , in the non-possession of an umbilical vesicle .
( 7 .
) That Procyon differs from all carnivora of which the young have been hitherto examined , inasmuch as the foetus is provided with a !
supernumerary cuticle or epitridermia , a structure which has only beer met with in the young of certain members of other mammalian groups From an examination of the various facts detailed in the paper , the author arrives at the conclusion that a consideration of the modifi-cations in form and structure of the placenta alone is insufficient as affording a basis upon which to found a natural classification of the mammalia .
Y. " Further Note on the Minute Anatomy of the Thymus ' ' By Herbert Watney , M.A. , M.D. Cantab .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received January 3 , 1881 .
In the involution of the thymus , connective tissue is formed in the medullary portion of the follicle ; and to some extent in the cortical .
Besides this , the connective tissue outside the follicles increases , and in this connective tissue fat is formed ; by these means the gland is finally replaced by fat and fibrous threads .
The cortical part attains its greatest size at the time of the greatest activity of the gland , it is not differentiated from the rest of the follicle at a very early period and disappears somewhat sooner than the medullary portion .
The lymphatics of the thymus of the calf are small .
In the neck they run to neighbouring lymphatic glands , the efferent vessel of which runs to two other lymphatic glands lyiug on the trachea at the root of the neck .
There is no connexion with the large lymphatics of the neck .
In the thoracic portion of the thymus the lymphatics can also be traced to lymphatic glands , one of which is generally situated on the aorta .
1881 .
] Dr. J. H. Gladstone .
Refraction , Sc. 327 The reticulum of the cortical part of a follicle is of two kinds consisting ( 1 ) of a reticulum , composed of coarse threads and of delicate cells , with long branching processes\#151 ; these cells and threads are attached to the blood-vessels .
In the meshes of this reticulum | two different kinds of small bodies are seen nearly equal in size ; the one ( a ) are very highly refractive and angular , and have short threads attached to their angles , the other circular and much less refractive a and b are acted upon differently by staining solutions .
The highly refractive bodies form the nodal points ( 2 ) of a delicate reticulum which encloses the circular less highly refractive cells .
Traces of this fine reticulum can be seen in the medullary portion .
The granular cells mentioned in a preceding note ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 27 , p. 369 ) take their origin in the connective tissue cells which constitute the network of the medullary portion .
These granular cells not only help to form the concentric corpuscles , but are actively concerned in the formation of fibrous tissue ; their fibrillated processes are sometimes found to be attached to newly formed connective tissue .
The granular cells are identical with some forms of giant cells\#151 ; they are not the plasma cells of Waldeyer , although plasma cells are present in the thymus , as has been described by Ehrlich .
January 27 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; ' The Refraction Equivalents of Carhon , Hydrogen , Oxygen , and Nitrogen in Organic Compounds .
" By J. H. GLADSTONE , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received January 4 , 1881 .
\#166 ; Since the communication which I had the honour to read before this Society in 1869 , " On the Refraction Equivalents of the Elements , very little has been done on the subject .
My own contributions have been almost confined to two communications in the Journal of the Chemical Society , " in 1870 ; the one a lecture on the subject in general , the other a paper on the " Refraction Equiva-VOL .
XXXI .
2 B

