I. " Note to a paper read before the Royal Society on the 11th of May , 1854 .
" By J. W. GRIFFITH , M.D. , F.L.S. Communicated by ARTHUR HENFREY , Esq. Received December 13 , 1854 .
In the paper referred to above , it was stated that the markings or dots upon the valves of the Diatomacese , are the optical expressions of depressions existing upon the valves .
All those authors who have paid special attention to the Diatomacece , have considered the markings to denote cells ; among these we find Ehrenberg* , Kiitzingt , Ralfs+ , Smith ?
, and Quekett[[ .
The evidence I adduced in regard to the more coarsely marked Diatomaceae , as Isthlmia , &amp;c. , being furnished with depressions and not cells , is , I believe , satisfactory and conclusive ; and this view has been admitted in a paper since read before the Royal Society ? .
A different view has been taken of the nature of the finer markings , as those upon some species of Gyrosigma , by the author of the paper last quoted , as by previous authors ; and the object of this note is to direct attention to the support which the extended view argued for by me in the paper above referred to , viz. that the finer markings also correspond to depressions , derives from analogy .
The structure of the Diatomaceae , and their modes of reproduc* Die Infusionsthierchen .
t Die Bacillarien , and Spec. Algarum .
+ Anlnals of Not .
History , 1843 . ?
British Diatomacese .
11 Histological Catalogue of the College of Surgeons ; and Lectures delivered before the College of Surgeons . ?
Proceedings of the Royal Society , June 15 , 1854 .
tion , are , as is well known , remarkable .
So much so , that these organisms have been claimed by botanists as members of the vegetable , and by zoologists as belonging to the animal kingdom .
The preponderance of evidence is decidedly in favour of their vegetable nature ; but , be this as it may , they must all be classed together , they form a perfectly natural family .
Hence we have a strong argument in favour of the markings upon their valves being identical , and as these are evidently depressions in the genera and species with coarsely marked valves ( Isthimia , &amp;c. ) , we should expect from analogy that the same would apply to those with finer markings .
And this view receives further support , from the fact , that under varied methods of illumination , corresponding appearances are presented by the markings when viewed by the microscope , from those which are very large , as in Ist/ imia , through those of moderate and small size , as in the species of Coscinodiscus , down to those in which they are extremely minute , as in the species of Gyrosigma , &amp;c. The angular ( triangular or quadrangular ) appearance assumed by the markings , arises from the light transmitted through the valves being unequally oblique .
This may be readily shown in the more coarsely marked valves ( Isthmia , Coscinodiscus ) , which present the true structural appearance when the light is reflected by the mirror in its ordinary position , and the spurious angular appearance when the light is rendered oblique by moving the mirror to one side .

