152 Mr. Gustav Bischof on Putrescent [ Apr. 19 When the heating was not excessive the bubbles did not become motionless , but their vibrations had a tendency to one side of the cavity , as ir fig. 7 , D and E. The larger bubbles in other cavities were likewise attracted .
The vibrating bubbles were generally seen at or near the top of the cavities .
Cooled with ether-spray the bubbles ceased vibrating .
The microscope-stage was inclined at an angle of 45 ' throughout the experiments .
About fifty different cavities , none of them exceeding the dimensions already given , all behaved in the same way .
There were several moving bubbles in cavities a little larger than those already noted ; for instance one measured X of an inch .
The motion never extended across the cavity , but was confined to a sort of shuffling up and down , which shifted the bubble from one side to the other ( see fig. 7,1 ) and E ) .
On presenting a warm wire to the cavity the bubble was instantly attracted , and it remained clinging for some time to the side of the cavity .
For an explanation of the cause of vibration I must refer to the fact that I have proved , that gas-bubbles in water as well as in carbonic acid may be attracted by a source of heat giving an extremely slight rise of temperature .
It is impossible to imagine a body which is not gaining or losing , or , at the same time , both gaining and losing heat ; it is therefore impossible to imagine it entirely throughout at a uniform temperature .
It is evident , then , that an easily movable particle which can be set in motion by exceedingly slight rises of temperature will make the transference of heat from one point to another plainly visible .
I have shown that the minute bubbles in fluid-cavities are such particles ; and I believe that the vibratory motions which I have described afford an ocular demonstration of the continual passage of heat through solid substances .
j April 19 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
' .
' _ The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Putrescent Organic Matter in Potable Water/ ' ' By Gustav Bischof .
Communicated by E. Frankland , F.R.S. Received March 17 , 1877 .
It is fortunate that smell and taste are generally extremely sen- \ sitive indicators of putrefaction in articles of food .
This does not , ; however , apply to drinking-water , which may be largely polluted by putrescent organic impurities without causing any suspicion to our \#163 ; 77 .
] Organic Matter in Potable Water .
* 153 mses .
And yet the question of the wholesomeness of water hinges aainly upon the presence or absence of such putrescent matters , as they bemselves are the cause of derangements of the human system .
Most erious however , are the consequences when those low forms of organic , fe which in all probability form the specific poison of cholera , typhoid ever , and other diseases , gain admission to drinking-water polluted by iutrescent matter .
A number of observations point to the conclusion that these organisms , r their germs , are not infectious as long as surrounded by fresh organic aatter ; but as soon as fermentation sets in , they show their poisonous drulence .
Thus it has been observed that the discharges of cholera and yphoid patients are not infectious as long as they are fresh , but by mtrescence their poisonous character is developed .
Chemical analysis is incapable of discriminating between living or lead , fresh or putrescent organic matters .
The microscope reveals their lature more fully ; but it is nevertheless frequently a matter of great lifficulty to decide as to the existence or non-existence of Bacteria of putrefaction , or their germs , in water .
It thus appeared to me that this nformation might , in some cases at least , be gained with greater certainty by an indirect method .
If we want to determine whether a gas be carbonic anhydride , we pass it through potash bulbs , and see whether these increase in weight .
Similarly the presence or absence of putrefactive agencies in water may be determined by their action upon organic matter .
The test I selected is fresh meat , as the slightest putrescent changes in it can most readily be detected by its smell .
The experiments , which were originally made with a view of determining the improvement of water by certain filtering media , were , with the exception of experiment VIII .
, carried out in the following manner:\#151 ; On to the perforated bottom ( a ) of a stoneware vessel ( s s ) I place some fresh meat .
The vessel is then filled to about two thirds with the Mr. Gustav Bischof on Putrescent [ Apr. 19^ materials to be experimented upon , and lastly with water .
Into opening e a tin tube is fixed , which is first bent upwards and then downwards in the shape of an inverted U , to prevent any Bacteria or their germs from passing through this outlet-tube into the bottom of the vessel .
The air-pipe d , down to c , is filled with firmly compressed cotton-wool , and a glass tube , sealed at its bottom , is passed down through the material experimented upon , to allow of the temperature being measured in close proximity to the meat .
The vessels thus prepared are immersed in a boiler filled with cold water , which is gradually heated and kept boiling for several hours .
The object of this is to destroy any germs adhering to the meat .
The temperature at the bottom of the sealed glass tube was , during the boiling , in each of the following experiments 93'-95 ' C. After cooling , the Chelsea Company 's water was constantly passed through the vessels in the direction indicated by arrows , at as nearly as possible a uniform speed .
It is thus evident that any 'Bacteria of putrefaction , or their germs , in the water would , after a time , render the meat putrid , or , if it remains fresh , they must have been absent , or at least inactive , when the water reached the meat .
I now proceed to describe the experiments .
Experiment I.\#151 ; One of the vessels was filled with spongy ( metallic ) iron , and treated as before described ; after a fortnight the meat was perfectly fresh .
Experiment II.\#151 ; A vessel filled with animal charcoal ; after a fortnight the meat showed strong evidence of incipient putrefaction .
As experiments I. and II .
were conducted side by side , this result proves that the preservation of the meat in experiment I. was not due to any external cause , such as the low temperature then prevailing .
Experiment III.\#151 ; " Water continuously passed through a vessel filled with spongy iron for four weeks ; even then the meat was perfectly fresh and hard .
Experiment IV .
was a repetition of II .
, the filtration of water through animal charcoal being continued for four weeks .
The meat was soft and quite putrid .
In the course of this experiment the exit-tube was several times choked by mucous matter .
Experiment V.\#151 ; In experiments I. and III .
with spongy iron , this material was employed without separating any of the fine dust .
In order to ascertain whether Bacteria were merely mechanically retained , a vessel was charged with spongy iron , from which all the finer particles had been separated by a sieve with thirty holes on the linear inch .
The filtering medium in this case was therefore of a porous nature .
After f four weeks ' filtration the meat was perfectly fresh .
Experiment VI.\#151 ; In the previous experiments with spongy iron the j meat was in contact with water , from which the iron in solution had not % been separated .
With a view of ascertaining whether the iron in solution $77.1 Organic Matter in Potable Water .
155 as tho preserving agent , a stoneware vessel was charged underneath the , ongy iron with pyrolusite and sand , so as to abstract the iron from the ater before it came in contact with the meat .
After four weeks ' filtra-on the latter was found perfectly fresh .
Experiment VII.\#151 ; By a separate experiment I ascertained that the sygen is completely abstracted from water during its passage through pongy iron .
In order to determine whether the absence of oxygen be ae cause of the preservation of the meat , and whether the Bacteria or aeir germs be killed or can bo revived when supplied with oxygen , an vaporating-basin was inverted over the meat .
This must have retained quantity of air in its cavity , the air being gradually dissolved by the rater in close proximity to the meat .
After four weeks ' filtration the neat was perfectly fresh ; I succeeded in collecting a small bubble of the ; as , still in the cavity of the evaporating-basin .
This was quite free rom oxygen .
It is therefore doubtful whether oxygen was supplied to the water sufficiently long to justify any conclusions from this experiment .
However , the result of experiment VIII .
rendered a repetition unnecessary .
, .
Experiment VIII.\#151 ; Fresh meat was placed at the bottom of a glass vessel and left standing , covered with about four inches of spongy iron and water .
The vessel in this instance was not boiled .
After three weeks the meat was very bad , demonstrating that the action of the Bacteria of putrefaction adhering to the meat was not prevented by the spongy iron above ; and if , during the previous experiments with spongy iron , agencies capable of causing putrefaction had at any time come in contact with the meat ( in other words , if the Bacteria had not been killed in their passage through spongy iron ) , the meat must , as in this last experiment , have shown marks of their action .
It therefore appears that Bacteria are permanently rendered harmless when passing in water through spongy iron .
This conclusion is further corroborated by the observation that even effluent sewage-water , after passing through the spongy material , has remained perfectly bright for now five years when exposed to light in a half-filled stoppered bottle .
I believe that the action of spongy iron on organic matter largely consists in a reduction of ferric hydrate by organic impurities in water .
We know that even such organic matter as straw or branches is capable of reducing ferric to ferrous hydrate .
We know that even such indestructible organic matter as linen and cotton fibres is gradually destroyed by rust-stains .
This action is slow when experimenting upon ordinary ferric hydrate ; but it may , statu , be very energetic\#151 ; the more so , if we consider the nature of the organic matter in water .
Ferric hydrate is always formed in the upper part of a layer of spongy iron when water is passed through that material .
The ferrous hydrate resulting from the reduction by organic matter may be re-oxidized by oxygen dissolved in the water , and thus the two reactions 156 On Bright Lines in the Spectra of Star Clusters .
[ Apr. 19 , repeat themselves .
This would explain why the action of spongy iron continues so long .
It is , however , quite certain that there is also a reducing action taking place when ordinary water is passed through spongy iron .
This is clearly indicated by the reduction of nitrates .
Our knowledge of those low organisms which are believed to be the cause of certain epidemics is as yet too limited to allow of direct experiments upon them .
It is not improbable that , like the Bacteria of putrefaction , they are rendered harmless when water containing them passes through spongy iron ; but until we possess the means of isolating these organisms , this question can only be definitively settled by practical experience .
Should this not be satisfactory , should those specific con-tagia not be destroyed when passing in water through spongy iron , then the separation of Bacteria by spongy iron may afford means of isolating those germs of disease ; should it be favourable , then we shall have found in spongy iron the material to prevent the spreading of epidemics by potable water .
II .
" On a Cause for the Appearance of Bright Lines in the Spectra of Irresolvable Star Clusters .
" By E. J. Stone , M.A. , E.R.S. , Her Majesty 's Astronomer , Cape of Good Hope .
Received March 20 , 1877 .
Before the announcement of Mr. Huggins 's discovery of the presence of bright lines in the spectra of nebulae , it was generally , if not universally , accepted as a fact that nebulae were merely stellar clusters irresolvable on account of their great distances from us .
This view had become impressed on the minds of many of our greatest observing astronomers in the progress of their work , and is one therefore which should not lightly be abandoned .
It appears to me that Mr. Huggins 's observations , instead of being inconsistent with the view formerly held by astronomers , are rather confirmatory of the correctness of that view .
The sun is known to be surrounded by a gaseous envelope of very considerable extent .
Similar envelopes must surround the stars generally .
Conceive a close stellar cluster .
Each star , if isolated , would be surrounded by its own gaseous envelope .
These gaseous envelopes might , in the case of a cluster , form over the whole , or a part of the cluster , a continuous mass of gas .
So long as such a cluster was within a certain distance from us , the light from the stellar masses would predominate over that of the gaseous envelopes .
The spectrum would therefore be an I ordinary stellar spectrum .
Suppose such a cluster to be removed further j and further from us .
The light from each star would be diminished in the proportion of the inverse square of the distance ; but such would not

