Photographic Spectra of Stars to the 3t ?
Magnitude .
213 we do not witness in these stars the original formation of our elements ; for his own theory supposes the stars to be formed from condensing matter originally cool , in which the metals , as we know them , are already present .
What we see in these stars , as I understand his theory , is a case of atavism , a temporary relapse of our elements into their original state .
That may be so .
It is in my opinion as I have already stated , a perfectly legitimate hypothesis , one that at present has not been disproved , and for which , as well as against which , a good deal might be said , but I cannot admit the claim , that it is demonstrated .
Nor do T believe that it will be generally accepted until some direct experimental evidence is obtained .
The resources of our laboratories are not yet exhausted ; and we have not arrived at the limit to which we can push the intensity of our electric sparks .
If Mr. Lockyer is right we must look forward to finding some trace of helium , or calcium , or hydrogen in the discharge taken from iron poles .
When that is done , and not till then , will this theory be considered as proved .
Additional Remarks by Mr. J. Norman Lockyer .
Mr. Lockyer , in his reply , pointed out that it was not open to him to discuss the question of classification .
He had been asked to prepare a paper on another subject , for the proper consideration of which the question of classification had to be referred to .
If Professor Schuster , as he says he does , concurs generally in Mr. Lockyer s scheme of classification , he must acknowledge that there must be a very great difference in the amount of " stirring " on the two sides of the temperature curve , and that powerful convection currents must exist in the hotter stars in which the temperature is rising ; and yet as a matter of fact the line absorption is very similar in both arms of the curve .
Mr. Lockyer has nowhere claimed that his hypothesis is the only one which can explain the facts , he only claims that it is simple and sufficient .
Note by Mr. Frank McClean , F.R.S. , " On Comparative Photographic Spectra of Stars to the 3i Magnitude .
" The 160 photographs which accompany the paper* include , with insignificant exceptions , all stars equal to and brighter than the 3\#163 ; magnitude contained in five out of eight equal areas , into which the celestial sphere has been divided .
* The paper to which reference is made , and on which Mr. McClean 's remarks were based , was read subsequently , at the meeting of April 8 .
q 2 Mr. F. McGlean .
The diagram shows the position of the eight areas consisting of\#151 ; Two upper galactic polar regions , viz. , A and A A. " zones " B " BB .
Two lower galactic zones " C " CC .
" polar regions , , D " DD .
The galactic zones extend to 30 ' from the galactic plane : The object of the division into equal areas is to bring out roughly any differences of distribution of the different types of spectra m relation to the galactic plane .
The areas A , B , 0 , D , and AA are included in the present series of photographs .
Of these the first four constitute a complete hemisphere , symmetrically divided by the galactic plane , and the deductions as to distribution have been made from them .
The stellar spectra have been arranged in series , and classed separately in the respective areas to which they belong .
It appears at once that Secchi 's Type I requires farther subdivision into distinct classes .
To effect this , a series of divisions m parallel to Secchi 's types have been adopted , in which Divisions I , II , and correspond to Type I , and Divisions IV , V , and VI to Types II , HI , and IV respectively . .
Classified tables of the stellar spectra are given , and previous classifications by Secchi , Vogel , Pickering , and Lockyerare indicated in separate columns .
Three lines of evidence are adduced to show that the helium sta .
Photographic Spectra of Stars to Magnitude .
215 of Division I are in the first stage of stellar development from the gaseous nebulee .
Firstly , the correspondence of their absorption spectra with the bright-line spectrum of the gaseous nebulae , as shown by Campbell and others , is pointed out .
Secondly , it is shown that the photographic spectra of the groups of stars involved in , or connected with , the nebulae in the Pleiades and the great nebula in Orion are helium spectra of Division I. Thirdly , it is shown that the helium stars of Division I , and the gaseous nebulae are similarly distributed in the galactic zones .
The special characteristics of Divisions I , II , and III are discriminated as follows:\#151 ; Bright-line stars are classed in accordance with their absorption spectra .
Division L\#151 ; The Orion stars , or the helium type .
The general characteristics are the spectra of cleveite gas and hydrogen .
The K line of calcium i3 usually wanting .
Subdivision ( a).\#151 ; There are , in addition , special lines , the source of which is unknown .
The possibility is suggested of these being due to oxygen .
Thalen 's spark spectrum of oxygen is collated with the stellar spectra .
Subdivision ( 6).\#151 ; There are other special lines attributed to calcium , barium , and magnesium .
These lines are persistent in subsequent divisions , and mark the order of transition from Division I to Division II .
The helium lines gradually disappear .
Division II\#151 ; Sirian stars , or the hydrogen type .
The characteristics are:\#151 ; Helium wanting\#151 ; Very strong hydrogen The K line usually sharply defined\#151 ; A delicate line spectrum due to calcium , titanium , and faintly to iron\#151 ; a Cvgni belongs to this type , and shows the characteristic line spectrum exceptionally distinct The ultra-violet spectrum is very strong .
Division III .
\#151 ; Procyon stars , or the hydrogen - iron type .
Characteristics :\#151 ; Strong hydrogen\#151 ; Strong K\#151 ; Usually a full iron spectrum\#151 ; The violet spectrum still strong , and the red weak\#151 ; The iron spectrum is collated with the photograph .
This division completes the requisite subdivision of Secchi 's Type I. Divisions IV , V , and VI are equivalent to Secchi 's Types II , III , and IV .
Division IV is the solar type , and on account of our knowledge of the solar specti'um it forms the basis of sidereal spectroscopy .
The block of space explored by means of the photographs is n diameter about seven times the mean distance of first magnitude stars from the sun .
This is equivalent to about 255 light-years .
The following is the table of distribution of the stellar spectra here given .
The distribution of the gaseous nebulse , planetary and extended , has been added .
216 Photographic Spectra of Stars to the 3-| Magnitude .
Table of Distribution of Gaseous Nebulae and of Stellar Types .
Stars to the 3S Magnitude .
A. B. C. D. Total .
AA .
BB .
00 .
DD .
Total .
Planetary nebulae ... .
2 3 8 2 ( 15 ) 2 7 3 0 ( 12 ) Extended " . . . .
i 1 4 8 4 ( 17 ) 1 4 3 1 ( 9 ) j | Total gaseous nebulse .
3 7 16 6 ( 32 ) 3 ... .
11 6 1 ( 21 ) Stellar Types .
Division I 3 6 17 3 ( 29 ) 6 " n 10 7 0 3 ( 20 ) 3 " hi 7 8 8 4 ( 27 ) 9 " iv 14 8 9 13 ( 44 ) 9 " V 1 2 4 3 ( 10 ) 3 | Total stellar spectra 35 31 38 26 ( 130 ) 30 Note.\#151 ; The gaseous nebula ' are those given in the table in Frost 's edition of Schemer 's ' Astronomical Spectroscopy .
' We gather from this table that as the stellar types of spectra become more advanced they are found to be more evenly distributed in space .
The idea is suggested that stars of the solar type\#151 ; Division IY\#151 ; started their career as helium stars of Division I , before the condensation of the galaxy .
The Proeyon stars of Division III followed in the same wray after the galaxy was formed .
The paucity of stars of this type in the lower polar region , coupled with their even distribution in the other areas , suggests the idea that the sun itself is situated near the lower boundary of the galaxy .
The distribution of the Sirian stars , Division II , is anomalous , and further information is required as to their distribution in the southern areas .
The Orion stars\#151 ; Division I\#151 ; are almost confined to the galactic zones .
It has been already conjectured that they are still in the first stage of stellar development from the gaseous nebulae .
It has been throughout assumed that the successive types or divisions are merely* the manifestations of the successive physical states , through which every star naturally passes in the course of its career .

