]\gt ; EX .
On Mr. SPOTTI Contact Problems .
W. K. CLIFFORD , M.A. , Professor of lied Jfathematics and Mechanics in University College , London .
Communicated W. SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treas .
V.P.R.S. Received June 19 , \mdash ; Read June 19 , 1873 .
present communication consists of two parts .
The first part treats of the contact of conics with a given surface at a given point ; this lass of questions was first treated by Mr. SPOTTISWOODE in his paper " " On the Contact of Comics with Surfaces and general formulae applicable to all such questions were given .
The results of that paper are here reproduced with some additions ; with the excepbion of a few collateral theorems , these are all contained in the following Table:\mdash ; *Number o-point conics through fixed point . .
$Order of surface formed by five-point conics through fixed axis Number of six-point conics through fixed axis *Number of seven-point conics The second part treats of the contact of a quadric surface with a surface of the order ; and in particular it determines the number of points at which a quadric ( other than the tangent plane reckoned twice ) can have four-branch contact with the surface .
In his paper " " On the Contact of Surfaces Mr. WOOD proves that at an arbitrary point on a surface there is no other solution than the doubled tangent plane , and gives the conditions that must be satisfied by those points at which another solution is possible .
The method here adopted is an extension of that applied by JOACHIMSTAL to the contact of lines with curves and surfaces .
The coordinates of a point on a conic are expressed in terms of a single parameter , those of a point on a quadric by two palameters .
To determine the intersection with a given surface we have an equation in the parameter or parameters , and the conditions of contact ?
expressed in terms of the coefficients of that equation .
The special case of the intersection of a quadric with a cubic surface is treated by the method of representation on a plane .
These results constitute the additions .
[ Note by W. \mdash ; In the Xemoir quoted by Professor CLIFIiOBD , it was stated that the number of comics passing through a given axis and having six-pointic contact with a surface at a given point is ten .
In m\amp ; ing this statement I overlooked the fact that , in order to put in evidence that a certain quantity a factor of the equahon which determines the positions of the planes of the conics , the equation multiplied by a quantity which is a linearfunction of the position .
In reckoning the degree of the equation this factor nupt of oourse be disearded .
The degree is consequently less by unity than that stated in the Memoir ; it , as proved by Professor July 3 , 1873 .
] let the equations of the three points be respectively The quantities are the coordinates of the points , C. The symbol A itself I shall use indifferently , as denoting either the form or the differ ential operator where are the current point-coordinates .
It will be seen in the sequel that this double meaning is useful , while it does not introduce any confusion .
Similar interpletations are of course to be given to the symbols , and the like .
Consider now the point whose coordinates are .
If we suppose to take all possible values , the point will describe a conic section whose tangential equation is To the value corresponds the point , to the point ; while the equation shows that is the intersection of the tangents at A and C. find the point at which this conic intersects a given surface of the order , we must substitute the coordinates of in the equation of the surface ; in this way we shall form an equation in of the order , the solution of which will give the values of belonging to the points of intersection .
If in this equation the term independent of vanishes , then is a root of the equation ; consequently the point A is one of the intersections , or the surface passes through the point A. If also the coefficient of vamshes , another root of the equat on coincides with zero , and two points of intersection are at A. And generally if the PBOF .
W. K. CLIFPORD ON MR. SPOTTISWOODE'S CONTACT PROBLEMS .
707 coefficient of is the first that does not vanish , roots of the equation coincide with zero , and points of intersection are united at A. The result of substituting the coordinates of any point in .
may be conveniently represented by means of the differential operator P. It is known , in fact , that ; or , which is the same thing , is times the result of substituting the coordinates of in .
Our result may therefore be stated in the following form:\mdash ; The necessary and sufficient conditions that the conic may have -point contact with the surface at the point , are that in the expansion of in powers of , the power of is the lowest whose coefficient does not vanish .
II .
Equating to zero the coefficients of 1 , in this expansion , we obtain Before proceeding further with these equations , it is convenient to make the following remarks upon their nature , which will serve to simplify the expression of them .
In the first place , then , we have here a series of relations among the coordinates of the points and the coefficients of the surface ; and the determination of the coordinates and coefficients so as to satisfy a certain number of the relations presents us with the solution of various geometrical problems .
These problems fall naturally into three classes .
1 .
The surface and the A are given .
In this case the unknowns are the ratios of the eight quantities , a singly infinite number of solutions corresponding to each conic ; and we are accordingly able to satisfy seven of the equations* .
The problem here is to find the number of conics which have seven-point contact at a given point of a given surface .
We may , however , impose beforehand certain restrictions upon the values of the unknowns , and so consider problems which involve a less number of the equations .
While the number of the septactic conics is definite , the sextactic conics form a singly infinite series ; and we may ask what is the number of them : ( a ) whose planes pass through a given point , ( b ) which meet a given line , or ( c ) which touch a given plane .
The quintactic conics , again , form a doubly infinite system , may inquire about the number of them which satisfy two conditions ; .
which pass through a given point .
*Viz .
six besides the first , which is satisfied identically .
As before , however , there are certain derived problems coming under this head which involve a less number of equations. .
We may seek the order of the curve traced out points of contact of septactic conics satisfying one condition , sextactic satisfying two , ; or we may seek the number of septactic conics satisfying two conditions , sextactic satis fying three , \amp ; c. 3 .
The surface is not wholly given .
We may here assign a number of relations. .
sufficient to eliminate quantities , leaving one or more relations among the coefficients of .
The problems here are such as:\mdash ; to find the number of surfaces in a pencil which admit of ten-point contact with some conic , or one of whose ninepoint conics meets a given line .
In the present communication only problems of class 1 will be considered ; the formulae in this case may be very considerably simplified .
The quantities and the coefficients of , then , are data of the problem ; so that the first of our equations , , is satisfied by hypothesis .
The next equation , , signifies that the point lies in the tangent plane at , as it obviously the conic touch the surface at A. We shall suppose this also to be satisfied from the commencement ; that is , we shall regard as a point moving in the tangent plane , and to be determined by construction in that plane .
This may be effected analytically if we substitute for , where now are regarded as fixed points in the tangent plane , and : the three unknowns take the place of the four quantities .
There is , however , as will be seen , no occasion to make the substitution explicitly .
This being so , any.relation involving only beside the data must be regarded.as the equation of a curve in the tangent plane .
For example , , expressing that lies on the quadric polar of , is the equation of the two chief tangents.at that point .
Generally , is the equation of the intersection with of the tangent plane ; and ' the curves \amp ; c. are the successive polars of A in regard to thate intersection .
The terms entering iuto our equations are of the general form Any term , therefore , is completely determined by the two numbers and , and might , for any thing that has yet appeared , be denoted by In view , however , of subsequent substitutions , we shall keep in evidence the manner in which and are involved , and denote the term in question .
by the As we do not consider any higher .
than seven-point-oontaot we Have only the equations:\mdash ; ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ( 6 ) ( 7 ) Combining equation ( 3 ) successively with ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , so as to obtain results homogeneous in find , regard as a fixed point , these are equations of a cubic and a quartie curve in tangent plane , on each of.whichB must lie if the conic has five-point contact .
But these curves have a common node at , and common tangents it ; for every term in each has at least one factor of the form , which we know to represent a polar of A in regard to the tersection of by the tangent plane\mdash ; that is , a curve touched by the chief tangents at A. Of their 12 intersections , then , 6 coincide with the point ; and there remain six conics havingJive-point contact at A whichpass through an arbitrary point C. IV .
Conics meeting afixed axis through A. If the point , instead of being altogether given , is movable on a fixed straight line through , we may represent it by ; where now is really a iixed point , and a quantity to be determined .
When we make this substitution in our equations , they become* , , , , The last three admit of obvious simplifications by aid of the previous ones ; and the rystem may finally be written . . . . . . .
( 3 ) . . . . . . . .
( 4 ) point will be the same for the whole system .
If we now allow the plane to turn round the axis , the point will trace out a curve in the tangent plane .
The equation to this curve is got by eliminating between equations ( 3 ) and ; namely , it is .
We see , therefore , that the locus of the poles of an in regard to all the four-point conics whose ptanes pass through it is a cubic curve in the , tangent plane touching the chief tangents at , which point is therefore a node on the curve .
We might have inferred this from the fact that on any line through A there is only one point , while this point coincides with A in the case of the two chief tangents ; since at a point of inflexion all the four-point conics contain the inflexional tangent .
Number of six-point conics through an axis .
We have now to determine so that the equations ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) may be simultaneously satisfied .
We know already that must lie on the cubic ; it is necessary therefore to find some other locus on which it has to lie .
First of all , then , we must eliminate between ( 3 ) and ( 5 ' ) and between ( 3 ) and ; the results are , ( B ' ) , say ; , say .
Here and are curves touching the chief tangents at , and of the degrees four and five respectively .
But the equations are not homogeneous ; in fact only the ratios and not the absolute values of the quantities were determined by the fixing of the point , and they may be regarded as involving an arbitrary factor whose square affects the left-hand side of the equations .
It is , however , at once eliminated , and we obtain the mogeneous result , ( B ) This is a curve of order 7 having two branches in each of the chief directions at A. Of its 21 intersections with the cubic , then , 12 coincide with , and there remain nine positions of which give sextactic conics through the fixel axis ; or we may say , of the sextactic conics at the point , there are nine whose planes pass through an arbitrary point C. System offive-point conics through an axis .
Since there is one five-point conic in every plane , if we consider all the planes through a fixed axis we shall obtain a singly infinite number of five-point conics .
Of this PBOF .
W. K. CLIFFORD ON MR. SPOTTISWOODE'S CONTACT PROBLEMS .
711 ystem there is only one conic whose plane passes through an arbitrary point , viz. the onic determined by the plane through that point and the axis .
There are eight conics of the system which meet an arbitrary line .
The number of conics which meet an arbitrary line is clearly the same as the order of be sulface which they trace out .
Now , since through every point on the axis can le rawn six comics of the system ( as proved in the last section ) , the axis is a six-fold line the surface .
The section of the surface , then , by a plane through the axis is made of the axis taken six times over and the conic in that plane ; or it is of the order .
Q.E.D. .
Conics not subject to any condition .
In order to get rid of the restriction of meeting a fixed axis , we must again modify fundamental equations .
We have to put them into a form in which they will lpresent any conic touching the surface at the point A. For this purpose it is ecessary and sufficient that should be movable over a plane passing through ; every conic through A must cut the plane in one other point , but this may be any oint of the plane .
We attain this analytically by substituting for in the second set equations , , where and are now fixed points not in the tangent plane nd not in any straight line through A. This is equivalent to still considering the conics which meet a given axis , but allowing that axis to move over a fixed plane .
The transformed equations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Locus of poles of axis in given plane in regard to sextactics .
From the first two of these equations we obtain 1 : : : , say ; here is the equation to a straight line passing through , while are cubics touching the chief tangents at A. Substituting these values in and , we obtain must hold for six-point contact , but they are not homogeneous .
Eliminating , however , there results ( B ) a curve of the ninth order , locus of the poles in regard to the sextactic conics of an axis moving in a fixed plane .
This curve has two branches at A in each of the chief direc tions , and one other branch ; and consequently is met by the plane ACD in five points coinciding with , and in four other points .
Now the plane ACD does not in general contain a sextactic conic ; the pole of the axis can therefore only be in this plane when the axis itself is in the tangent plane .
In this case there is a certain number of proper sextactic conics in planes through the axis , and it is clear that the pole of the axis iu regard to any such conic is the point A. These comics , therefore , correspond to the intersections of the plane ACD with the locus of poles which coincide with ; or through an axis in the tangent plane can be drawn five proper sextactic conics .
In the tangent plane itself there are four improper conics having six-point contact ; viz. the pair of chief tangents , which ( as a sharp conic or line-pair reckoned among conics given tangentially ) counts for two , and each chief tangent doubled .
Number of septactic conics .
There is a finite number of septactic conics at the point ; each these meets the plane ACD in a determinate point , and fixes thereby a position of the point B. These positions of the point must necessarily lie in the thic locus just investigated ; it remains only to find a homogeneous relation which shall determine another locus for , and to count the number of their intersections .
To this end we must first substitute for 1 : their values in equation .
result is , or , say .
: The first two of these give us the curve already considered , ( B ) which has at A two branches in the chief directions and one other .
The first and third give a curve of order 12 , having two branches in each of the chief directions and two other Wanches : Of the 108 intersections of these curves , then , coincide with , leaving 70 for the number of septactic conics .
PABT OF QUADRIC SURFACES WITH SURFACES OF ORDER I. Conditions of contact .
Let be four points forming a tetrahedron , whose tangential equations are respectively , their coordinates being .
Then the point whose coordinates are , , if we suppose and take all possible values , trace out a quadric surface whose tangential equation.is .
To the pair of values , corresponds the point , , , D. The equation shows that AB , , CD are generating lines .
A are determined by the initial value of the ratio when we move along them .
The direction in which the intersection-curve starts from A is therefore that obtained by neglecting in the equation terms of higher order than the first ; and we see that there is only one such direction .
If , howevel , not only the constant term but the coefficients of and in the equationf vanish , the initial directions are obtained by equating to zero the terms of the second order , .
by neglecting in the equation all terms of higher order than the second .
this case , then , there are two such directions , the intersection-curve has a double at , and the quadric has with the surface an ordinary or two-branch contact .
Again , if the coefficients of the terms of the third order are the first that do not vanish , the initial directions are obtained by neglecting all the terms of higher order , and there are consequently three of them .
Thus the intersection-curve has a tripte point at , and the two surfaces have a three-branch contact .
And so generally , if the coefficients of the terms of the order are the first that do not vanish , the intersection-curve has at A a multiple point of order , and the two surfaces have at that point an -branch contact .
The result of these considerations may be stated as follows:\mdash ; The necessary and sufficient conditions that the quadric may have -branch contact with the surface at the point , are that in the expansion of in powers and products of and , the terms of order in and are the lowest whose coefficients do not vanish .
II .
Quadrics offour-branch contact .
The equations we shall have to employ are so simple in form that it is unnecessary to employ the abridged notation of the former Part .
We shall merely omit the operand , and any common factor of the binomial coefficients .
The conditions for ordinary contact are then The first of these expresses that A is a point on the surface , the second and third that and are on the tangent plane at A. The further conditions for three-branch contact are PBOF .
W. K. CLIFFORD ON CONPACT PROBLEM8 .
716 The first two of these show that and are points on the chief tangents at A. If we regard the absolute values of the coordinates of A as given , then it appears from the third equation that and may be chosen arbitrarily on the chief tangents and enywhere in space , the equation giving the relation between the absolute values of their ordinates which determines the particular surface AD-BC For four-branch contact we have the additional equations , The first two of these indicate that and lie on the polar cubic of A in regard to the section of by the tangent plane .
Now this polar cubic has a node at , whose tangents are the chief tangents .
Each of these lines therefore meets the cubic in three points at , and cannot have any other point on the culve unless it be itself a part of the cubic .
But the points and have to lie one on each of the chief tangents .
In order , therefore , that all the equations may be satisfied , the polar cubic in question must break up into the two chief tangents and some other line .
This condition may be put into another form .
For if we seek the points in which the line AB meets the surface , by substituting the coordinates of in , the conditions indicate that four roots of the equation are equal to zero , or that the line meets the surface in four consecutive points at A. We find , therefore , that Those points of a surface at which a quadric may have four-branched contact are the points at which each chief tangent meets the surface in four consecutive points , or , which is the same thing , the points whose polar cubic contains the chief tangent .
The number of these points has been counted by CLnBSCH , Crelle , lxiii .
14* , and turns out to be .
A point of this nature being given , one quadric surface having four-branch contact at it may be drawn through another arbitrary point .
The coordinates of the point A being given as to their absolute values , let us substitute for and ; where now and are fixed points on the chief tangents , whose coordinates are given absolutely .
This being so , the following equations are satisfied ex hypothesi : ; \amp ; om which it follows at once , for example , that *The investigation is given by SAnnroN , Geom. Three .
p. 444 .
UDCCCLXXIV .
5 and it remains only to show that these equations determine uniquely If we subtract ( 1 ) from ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) successively , we obtain , . . .
( 4 ) , . . . . .
( 5 ) the values not being admissible .
But if we substitute in ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) the value of derived from ( 1 ) , we obtain two simple equations which determine the ratios ; after which the absolute values are uniquely determined from ( 1 ) .
It is otherwise obvious that if be the point-equation to a four-branch quadric , and to the tangent plane , will be the equation to a pencil of quadrics having four-branch contact , one of which may be made to pass through an arbitrary point .
Special investigation for In the case in which is a cubic surface , the points in question are clearly the 135 points of contact of the 45 triple tangent planes , namely , the intersections of the 27lines .
This case may be conveniently studied by means of the representation of that surface on a plane .
The plane sections of the surface here correspond to a system of cubics having six common points ; the quadric sections therefore to sextics having nodes at these points .
The problem is then to draw a sextic curve having six given nodes and a quadruple point elsewhere .
The twenty-seven lines of the cubic are represented by the 6 fixed points , the 15lines joining them , and the 6 conics each through five of them .
It shall now be proved that the sextic must incIude two of these ; and that for each pair that meet there is a singly infinite number of sextics .
The sextic cannot be a proper curve ; for six nodes and a quadruple point are equi .
valent to twelve nodes , and a proper sextic can have only ten .
Nevertheless we may apply a quadric transformation to it , whose principal points are the quadruple point and two of the nodes .
The sextic is thus reduced to a quartic , passing 2 , times through the principal points respectively and having four other nodes .
But a quartic having five nodes must be made up of a conic and two straight lines .
Now , if the node at a principal point is the intersection of the two lines , the original.'sextic was PROF .
W. K. CLIFFORD ON MR. SPOTTISWOODE'S CONTACT PROBLEMS .
717 up of two lines , passing each through two of the six points , and a quartic having nodes at their intersection and the remaining two points and passing through those four .
Let be the six points , the intersection of ab , ; then the sextic is in this case made up of lines ab , quartic If , however , in the transformed figure the node at a principal point was the intersection of a line with the conic , the original sextic was made up of a line , a conic , and a nodal cubic , viz. if be the intersection of the line and the conic bedef , the nodal cubic is Now we know that we can draw a singly infinite number of quartics with 3 fixed nodes and 4 fixed points , or of cubics with a fixed node and 5 fixed points .
Hence in both these cases the sextic includes two representatives of straight lines in the cubic , together with another curve which may be arbitrarily chosen from a pencil .

