VII .
" Contributions to the Anatomy of the Brachiopoda .
" By THOMAs H. HUXLEY , F.R.S. Received May 18 , 1854 .
In the course of the dissection of certain Brachiopoda with which I have recently been engaged , I have met with so many peculiarities which are unnoticed in the extant and received accounts of their anatomy , that although the pressure of other duties prevents me from attempting to work out the subject with any degree of completeness for the present , I yet gladly avail myself of the opportunity of communicating a few of the more important results at which I have arrived , in the hope that they may find a place in the Proceedings of the Royal Society .
My investigations were principally made upon Rhynchonella psittacea , for specimens of which I am indebted to Prof. Edward Forbes , while Dr. Gray obligingly enabled me to compare them with Waldheimia flavescens and with Lingula .
1 .
TheAlimentary Canal of Terebratulidwe.-Professor Owen , in both his earlier and his later memoirs on the anatomy of the Terebratulidae , describes at length the manner in which the intestine , as he states , terminates on the right side between the lobes of the mantle .
On the other hand , Mr. Hancock has declared himself unable to observe at this point any such anal aperture , and concludes from his own observations that the latter is situated on the ventral surface of the animal in the middle line , just behind the insertion of the great adductor muscle .
M. Gratiolet , in a late communication to the Academy des Sciences , takes the same view .
To get rid of the obvious difficulty , that this spot is covered by the shell , and therefore that if the anus existed here , there would be no road of escape for the faeces , Mr. Hancock and Mr. Woodward appear to be inclined to suppose that some cloacal aperture must exist in the neighbourhood of the pedicle .
The existence of any such aperture , however , has recently been denied with great justice by Professor Owen .
The result of my own repeated examinations of Rhynchonella psittacea and of Waldheimia flavescens is-1 .
that the intestine does not terminate on the right side of the mantle as Professor Owen describes it , but in the middle line , as Mr. Hancock describes it in Waldheimia , while in Rhynchonella it inclines , after curving upwards , to the left side ; and 2 .
that there is no anus at all , the intestine terminating in a rounded crecal extremity , which is straight and conical in lWaldkeimia , curved to the left side and enlarged in Rhynchonella .
I confess that this result , so exceptional in its character , caused me no small surprise , and I have taken very great pains to satisfy myself of the accuracy of my conclusion ; but notwithstanding the strong prejudice to the contrary , to which the known relations of the anal aperture in Lingula gave rise , repeated observation has invariably confirmed it .
Professor Owen 's statement is , that in Rhynchonella ( Terebratula ) psittacea " the intestine inclines to the right side and makes a slight bend forwards before perforating the circumscribing membrane in order to terminate between the mantle lobes on that side."-On the Anatomy of the Brachiopoda , p. 152 .
I find , on the contrary ( figs. 1 and 2 ) , that the intestine passes at first straight downwards in the middle line , as in Waldheimia , but instead of terminating in a rounded tapering extremity as in that genus , it bends upwards and then curves round to the left side , forming a sort of free ciecum in the visceral cavity .
My reasons for believing that it is a free caecum are these : in the first place , no anal aperture can be detected in the mantle cavity , either on the right or left sides , although the small size of the animal allows of its being readily examined uninjured , with considerable magnifying powers .
Secondly .
If the shell be removed without injuring the animal and the visceral cavity be opened from behind by cutting through its walls close to the bulb of the pedicle , it is easy not only to see that the disposition of the extremity of the intestine is such as I have described it to be , but by gentle manipulation with a needle to convince oneself that it is perfectly unattached .
And in connexion with this evidence I may remark , that the tissues of the Brachiopods in general are anything but delicate ; it would be quite impossible for instance to break away the end of the intestine of Lingula from its attachments without considerable violence .
Thirdly .
If the extremity of the intestine , either in Rhynchonella Fig. 1 .
/ / i !
' ' Fig. 1 .
Rhynchonella psittacea , viewed in profile ; the lobes of the mantle and the pedicle being omitted .
Fig. 2 .
The same viewed from behind , the pedicle having been cut away .
The left half of the body and the liver are omitted .
a. mouth ; b. esophagus ; c. stomach and liver ; d. intestine ; e. imperforate rectum ; f. mesentery ; g. gastro-parietal bands ; h. ilio-parietal bands ; i. superior ' heart ' ; k. inferior 'heart ' ; 1 .
genital bands ; m. openings of pallial sinuses ; n. pyriform vesicle ; o. sac at the base of the arm ; p. ganglion ; q. adductors , or in Waldheimia , be cut off and transferred to a glass plate , it may readily be examined microscopically with high powers , and it is then easily observable that its fibrous investment is a completely shut sac .
In Rhynchonella the enlarged caecum is often full of diatomaceous shells , but it is impossible to force them out at its end , while if any aperture existed they would of course be readily so extruded .
However anomalous , physiologically , then , this caecal termination of the intestine in a molluscous genus may be , I see no way of escaping from the conclusion that in the Terebratulidee ( at any rate in these two species ) it really obtains .
There are other peculiarities Fig. 2 .
-1I about the arrangement of the alimentary canal , however , of which I can find either no account at all or a very imperfect notice .
The intestinal canal ( figs 1 and 2 b , d , e ) has an inner , epithelial , and an outer fibrous coat ; the latter expands in the middle line into a sort of mesentery , which extends from the anterior face of the intestine between the adductors , to the anterior wall of the visceral I L--11 I '5 chamber , and from the upper face of the intestine to the roof of the visceral chamber ; while posteriorly it extends beyond the intestine as a more or less extensive free edge .
I will call this the mesentery ( f ) .
From each side of the intestinal canal , again , the fibrous coat gives off two 'bands , ' an upper ( g ) , which stretches from the parietes of the stomach to the upper part of the walls of the visceral chamber , forming a sort of little sheath for the base of the posterior division of the adductor muscle , which I will call the gastro-parietal band ; and a lower , which passes from the middle of the intestine to the parietes , supporting the so-called ' auricle .
' I will call this the ilioparietal band ( h ) .
The ilio-parietal and gastro-parietal bands are united by certain other ridges upon the fibrous coat of the intestine , from whose point of union in the middle line of the stomach posteriorly , a pyriform vesicle ( n ) depends .
The mesentery divides the liver into two lateral lobes , while the gastro-parietal bands give rise to the appearance that these are again divided into two lobules , one above the other .
I am inclined to think that these bands are what have been described as ' hepatic arteries , ' at least there is nothing else that could possibly be confounded with an arterial ramification upon the liver .
This description applies more especially to Rhynchonella and Waldheimia , but the arrangement in Lingula is not essentially different .
2 .
The Circulatory System of Terebratulidce.-Considerable differences of opinion have prevailed among comparative anatomists as to the nature and arrangement of the vascular system in the Brachiopoda .
A pair of organs , one on each side of the body , have been recognized as Hearts since the time of Cuvier , who declared these hearts in Lingula to be aortic , receiving the blood from the mantle and pouring it into the body , the principal arterial trunks being distributed into that glandular mass which Cuvier called ovary , but which is now known to be the genital gland of either sex .
Professor Owen in his first memoir follows Cuvier 's interpretation , stating that in Orbicula the pallial veins terminate in the hearts , from which arterial branches proceed to the liver and ovary .
Professor Owen further adds for the Brachiopoda in general , " Each heart , for example , in the Brachiopoda is as simple as in Ascidia , consisting of a single elongated cavity , and not composed of a distinct auricle and ventricle as in the ordinary Bivalves , " and he compares the hearts of Brachiopoda to the auricles of Area , &amp;c. ( Trans. Zoological Society , vol. i. p. 159 ) .
In 1843 , however , M. Vogt 's elaborate memoir on Lingula appeared , in which the true complex structure of the ' heart ' in this genus was first explained and the plaited 'auricle ' discriminated from the 'ventricle ; ' and in 1845 , Professor Owen , having apparently been thus led to re-examine the circulatory organs of Brachiopoda , published his ' Lettre sir l'appareil de la Circulation chez les Mollusques de la Class des Brachiopodes , ' in which he felicitates M. Milne-Edwards on the important confirmation of the views which the latter entertains with respect to the lacunar nature of the circulation in the Mollusca , afforded by the Brachiopoda , and describes each heart of the Terebratulidoe as consisting of a ventricle and a plaited auricle , the pallial veins not terminating in the latter but in the general visceral cavity .
As the Professor does not recall the view which he had already taken of the circulation in Orbicula , I presume that he considers two opposite types of the circulatory organs to obtain in the Brachiopoda , the direction of the current being from the mantle through the heart towards the body in Orbicula , and from the mantle through the body towards the heart in Terebratula .
The possibilities of nature are so various that I would not venture , without having carefully dissected Orbicula , -no opportunity of doing which has yet presented itself , to call this view in question , but I think it seems somewhat improbable .
Indeed the structural relations which I have observed and which are described below , do not appear to me to square with any of the received doctrines of Brachiopod circulation , but I offer them simply as facts , not being prepared at present to present any safe theory on the subject .
In Waldheimia flavescens there are two 'hearts , ' situated as Professor Owen describes them , but so far as I have been able to observe , the ventricle cannot be described as an 'oval ' cavity , inasmuch as it is an elongated cavity bent sharply upon itself .
Hastily examined of course this may appear oval .
I have been similarly unable to discover ' the delicate membrane of the venous sinuses , ' which is said by Professor Owen to " communicate with and close the basal apertures of the auricles , " or to perceive that the auricular cavity can be " ' correctly described as a closed one , consisting at the half next the ventricle , of a beautifully plicated muscular coat in addition to the membranous one , but at the other half next the venous sinus of venous membrane only ; the latter might be termed the auricular sinus , the former the auricle proper .
" I presume that 'this delicate membrane of the venous sinuses ' is what I have called the ilio-parietal band , in which the base of the auricle is as it were set , like a landing-net in its hoop , but this does not close the base of the auricle , the latter opening widely into the visceral chamber .
I have equally failed in detecting any arteries continued from the apices of the ventricles ; and I have the less hesitation in supposing I have not overlooked them , as Mr. Albany Hancock , whose works are sufficient evidence of the value of his testimony , permits me to say that he long since arrived at the conclusion that no such arteries exist .
What has given rise to the notion of the existence of these arteries appears to me to be this .
A narrow band resembling those I have already described , is attached in Waldheimia along the base of the ' ventricle ' and the contiguous outer parietes of the auricle : inferiorly it passes outwards to the sinuses , and running along their inner wall , forms a sort of ridge or axis* from which the genitalia , whether ovaria or testes , are developed , stretching through their whole length and following the ramifications of the sinuses .
It is the base of these ridges seen through the walls of the sinuses , where they extend beyond the genitalia , which have been described as arteries .
The upper end of the band passes into the sinuses of the upper lobe of the mantle , and comes into the same relation with the genitalia which they enclose .
The walls of the auricle in Waldheimia are curiously plaited , but I have been unable , in either auricle or ventricle , to detect any such arrangement of muscular fibres as that which has been describedThe epithelial investment of the auricle , on the other hand , is well developed , and in the ventricle the corresponding inner coat is raised up into rounded villous eminences .
The ventricle lies in the thickness of the parietes , while the auricle floats in the visceral cavity , supported only by the ilio-parietal band .
The former is at first directed downwards , but then bends sharply round and passes upwards to terminate by a truncated extremity close to the subcesophageal ganglion and bases of the arms .
Mr. Hancock informs me , that in his dissections he repeatedly found an aperture by which the apex of the ' ventricle ' communicated with the pallial cavity ; and that , taking this fact in combination with the absence of any arteries leading from this part , he had been tempted to doubt the cardiac nature of these organs altogether , and to regard them rather as connected with the efferent genital system , had not the difficulty of determining whether these apertures were artificial or natural prevented his coming to any definite conclusion at all .
Before becoming acquainted with Mr. Hancock 's investigations , I had repeatedly observed these apertures in Rhynchonella , but preoccupied with the received views on the subject , I at once interpreted them as artificial .
A knowledge of Mr. Hancock 's views , however , led me to reconsider the question , and I have now so repeatedly observed these apertures both in Waldheimia and in Rhynchonella , that I am strongly inclined to think they may after all be natural .
If these organs be hearts , in fact , Rhynchonella is the most remarkable of living Mollusks , for it possessesfour of them .
Two of these occupy the same position as in Waldheimia , close to the origins of the calcareous crus ( k ) , while the other two are placed above these , and above the mouth , one on each side of the liver ( i ) .
It is these latter which Professor Owen describes , while he has apparently overlooked the other two , at least he says ( speaking as I presume of Rhynchonella ) ( 1 .
c. p. 148 ) that the venous sinuses " enter the two hearts or dilated sinuses which are situated exterior to the liver , and in T. Chilensis and T. Sowerbii just within the origins of the internal calcareous loop .
" The fact is , that while the ilio-parietal bands support two ' hearts ' as usual , the gastro-parietal bands are in relation with two others .
The base of the 'auricle ' of the latter opens into the re-entering angle formed by the gastro-parietal band with the parietes , while its apex is directed backwards to join the ventricle , which passes downwards and backwards along the posterior edge of the posterior division of the adductor muscle .
The auricles in Rhynchonella are far smaller , both actually and proportionally , than in Waldheimia .
They exhibit only a few longitudinal folds , and not only present the same deficiency of muscular fibres as those of WTJaldheimia , but are so tied by the bands which support them that it is difficult to conceive how muscular fibres , even if they existed , could act .
The 'ventricles ' in like manner lie obliquely in the parietes of the body , and simply present villous eminences on their inner surface , which has a yellowish colour .
All these ' hearts ' exhibit the same curious relation with the genitalia in Rhynchonella as in Waldheimia ; that is to say , a 'genital band ' ( 1 ) proceeds from the base of the ' ventricle ' and becomes the axis of the curiously reticulated genital organ .
But in Rhynchonella the genital bands of the upper genitalia come from their own 'hearts .
' The arrangement of the genitalia in Rhynchonella is very remarkable .
The sinuses have the same arrangement in each lobe of the mantle .
The single trunk formed by the union of the principal branches in each lobe opens into the inner and anterior angle of a large semilunar sinus which surrounds the bases of the adductors , and opens into the visceral cavity .
The floor of this great sinus is marked out into meshes by the reticulated genital band , and from the centre of each mesh a flat partition passes , uniting the two walls of the sinus , and breaking it up into irregular partial channels .
There are the same anastomosing bands uniting the gastro-parietal and ilio-parietal bands on the stomach in Rhynchonella as in Waldheimia , and a pyriform vesicle of the same nature , but I did not observe in Rhynchonella those accessory vesicles upon the origins of genital bands , which I observed once or twice in Waldheimia .
I could find no trace of arteries terminating the elongated , ovoid and nearly straight ' ventricles ' of Rhynchonella ; their ends appeared truncated , and as I have already said , repeatedly presented a distinct external aperture .
Such appear to me to be the facts respecting the structure of the so-called hearts in the Terebratulide ; what I believe to be an important part of their peripheral circulatory system , has not hitherto , so far as I am aware , received any notice .
In Waldheimia the membranous walls of the body , the parieto-intestinal bands and the mantle , present a very peculiar structure ; they consist of an outer and an inner epithelial layer , of two corresponding fibrous layers , and between them of a reticulated tissue , which makes up the principal thickness of the layer , and in which the nerves and great sinuses are imbedded .
The trabeculme of this reticulated tissue contain granules and celllike bodies , and I imagined them at first to represent a fibro-cellular network , the interspaces of which I conceived were very probably sinuses .
Sheaths of this tissue were particularly conspicuous along the nerves .
On examining the arms , however , I found that the oblique markings , which have given rise to the supposition that they are surrounded by muscular bands , proceeded from trabeculae of a similar structure , which took a curved course from a canal which lies at the base of the cirri ( not the great canal of the arms , of course ) round the outer convexity of the arm , and terminated by breaking up into a network .
These trabeculae , however , were not solid but hollow , and the interspaces between them were solid .
The network into which they broke up was formed by distinct canals , and then , after uniting with two or three straight narrow canals which ran along the outer convexity of the arm close to its junction with the interbrachial fold , appeared to become connected with a similar system of reticulated canals which occupied the thickness of that fold .
It was the examination of the interbrachial fold , in fact , which first convinced me that these reticulated trabeculae were canals ; for it is perfectly clear that vessels or channels of some kind must supply the proportionally enormous mass of the united arms with their nutritive material , and it is so easy to make thin sections of this part , that I can say quite definitely that no other system of canals than these exists in this locality .
The facts , then , with regard to the real or supposed circulatory organs of the Terebratulide , are simply these:1 .
There are two or four organs ( hearts ) , composed each of a free funnel-shaped portion with plaited walls , opening widely into the visceral cavity at one end , and at the other connected by a constricted neck , with narrower , oval or bent , flattened cavities , engaged in the substance of the parietes .
The existence of muscular fibres in either of these is very doubtful .
It is certain that no arteries are derived from the apex of the so-called ventricle , but whether this naturally opens externally or not is a point yet to be decided .
2 .
There is a system of ramified peripheral vessels .
3 .
There are one or more pyriform vesicles .
4 .
There are the large ' sinuses ' of the mantle , and the 'visceral cavity ' into which they open .
To determine in what way these parts are connected and what functions should be ascribed to each , it appears to me that much further research is required .
Nervous System of Terebratulide.-Professor Owen describes and figures the central part of this system as a ring surrounding the oral aperture , its inferior portion being constituted by a mere commissural band .
M. Gratiolet , however , states with justice that the inferior side of this collar is the thicker , and I find both in Rhynchonella and in Waldheimia that it constitutes , in fact , a distinct oblong ganglion , of a brownish colour by reflected light .
From its extremities commissural branches pass round the mouth , while other cords are distributed to the arms , to the superior and inferior pallial lobes , and to the so-called hearts .
The nerves are marked by fine and distinct longitudinal striations , and can be traced to the margins of the pallial lobes , where they become lost among the muscular fibres of the free edges of the mantle .
Structure of the Arms.-I have not been able to convince myself of the existence of that spiral arrangement of the muscular fibres of the arms which has been described in Rhynchonella and Waldheimia .
I have found the wall of the hollow cylinder of the arm to be constituted ( 1 ) externally , by an epithelium , within which lie ( 2 ) the reticulated canals , which have been already described ; ( 3 ) by a delicate layer of longitudinal or more oblique and transverse fibres , which are probably muscular , and ( 4 ) internally by a granular epithelial layer .
In Rhynchonella the bases of the arms are terminated by two considerable sacs , which project upwards into the visceral cavity .
Have these the function of distending and so straightening the spirally coiled , very flexible arms of this species ?
Affinities of the Brachiopoda.--All that I have seen of the structure of these animals leads me to appreciate more and more highly the value of Mr. Hancock 's suggestion , that the affinities of the Brachiopoda are with the Polyzoa .
As in the Polyzoa , the flexure of the intestine is neural , and they take a very natural position among the neural mollusks between the Polyzoa on the one hand , and the Lamellibranchs and Pteropoda on the other .
The arms of the Brachiopoda may be compared with those of the Lophophore Polyzoa , and if it turns out that the so-called hearts are not such organs , one difference will be removed .
In conclusion , I may repeat what I have elsewhere adverted to , that though the difference between the cell of a Polyzoon and the shell of a Terebratula appears wide enough , yet the resemblance between the latter with its muscles and the Avicularium of a Polyzoon , is exceedingly close and striking .

