118 Dr. W. Watson .
On Sensibility of the [ June 12 , change in the colours of the spectrum observed by Brewster , and which led him to suppose erroneously that there were three kinds of solar light .
In conclusion , when special means are taken to have as pure a spectrum as possible , I can find no method which will enable me to distinguish as distinct colours the wave-lengths in a monochromatic region .
I therefore regard the appearance of the monochromatic region as a fundamental physiological fact , as I stated over 20 years ago .
Note on the Sensibility of the Eye to Variations of Wave-length .
By W. Watson , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received June 12 , \#151 ; Read June 29 , 1911 .
) In a recent communication to the Royal Society , Dr. Edridge-Green has suggested that the reason Lord Rayleigh found he was able to distinguish a difference in hue between two monochromatic patches of yellow ( D ) light , when they differ in wave-length by about the distance between the sodium lines ( 0*6 ( xf ) , is that ( a ) the spectrum used was not pure , and hence the patches were not monochromatic ; and ( b ) that the difference in wave-length was apparent because of admixture with white light .
Some experiments made by the author seem so conclusively to show that at any rate the second of the above reasons cannot be correct that it seems worth while to put them on record .
By means of Sir William Abney 's double spectrum apparatus , * two patches of monochromatic light were thrown side by side on a magnesium carbonate screen , and matters were so arranged that no line of separation was observable when the patches were of the same colour .
Each patch was 9 mm. by 18 mm. , and the observer was at a distance of 60 cm .
The intensity of the illumination on the screen was throughout 3*5 candle-metres .
The slit in the second spectrum apparatus was kept at a fixed point in the spectrum , while that in the first spectrum was moved by means of a micrometer screw , the movement being read on a scale on which a millimetre represents in the yellow a difference in wave-length of 3'7 fifi .
By cutting off the light from one slit and placing a short focus lens in front of the other an enlarged image of the slit would be formed on the screen .
Thus by watching this image and gradually opening the slit the width of the Edridge-Green monochromatic patch could be determined .
* * Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1905 , vol. 205 , p. 333 .
1911 .
] Eye to Variations of Wave-length .
Then , the lens being removed and the slits in the two spectra adjusted so that their width corresponded to 3 / * , u , the movement of the first slit necessary to produce an observable difference in hue , first in one direction and then in the other , was determined .
In this way the two sets of observations were made ' under exactly the same conditions as to illumination , size of image on the retina , state of dark adaptation , etc. When determining the change in wave-length required to produce an observable difference in hue , the slit was always moved till the difference in hue was quite distinct , .
and no hesitation was felt as to which patch was , say , on the red side .
In general , the observer did not move the slit , so that he did not know in which direction the change in colour would take place .
Fourteen observers were tested in the above manner , and their readings , which agree very well together , give the following mean values :\#151 ; Sodium Light .
Width of monochromatic patch ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
4*5 / a/ t. Difference in wave-length easily detected as a change in hue 1'4 fxfi .
It will be observed that there is a very marked difference , and that when the eye is not dealing with a continuous variation in hue , as is the case when a portion of the spectrum is observed , a very much smaller difference in wave-length is apparent as a difference in hue , and this even when the conditions are as nearly as possible identical .
This point was also investigated in a somewhat different manner .
The monochromatic patch having been projected on the screen , a rod was interposed so as to cut out a portion corresponding to 1*9 / xfi difference in wavelength from the middle , and the two remaining portions were then brought together by means of a Fresnell biprism .
When this was done the difference in hue was most marked , though on removing the rod the patch again looked monochromatic .
An attempt to repeat Dr. Edridge-Green 's experiment , using a biprism , failed ; since there was sufficient polarisation of the light produced by the prisms of the spectroscope to cause such a difference in brightness of the two images as to mask any difference in hue .
To investigate what effect , if any , the presence of white light mixed with the colours would produce on the perception of a difference of hue , arrangements were made by which a known amount of white light fell on both halves of the screen .
Different quantities of white were added , and in the following table 100 parts of white were of the same luminosity as the colour in each case .
Observations were made with yellow ( D ) , red and green light .
No 120 On the Sensibility of the Eye to Variations of Wave-length .
difficulty was found in making the measurements in the yellow , where the luminosity of the spectrum is nearly a maximum , and hence a slight movement of the slit causes no appreciable change in the brightness .
In the red and green , however , a movement of the slit causes a much more apparent change in brightness than of hue .
The method adopted to make the settings was to move the slit till no change in brightness obtained by opening or closing the slit would cause the two patches of colour to look the same .
Table .
Wave-length of colour used .
Amount of white added ( 100 = luminosity of coloured light ) .
Change in wave-length which produced a clearly observable difference in hue .
Hfi .
w* .
589 0 1-55 10 1*55 20 1*6 40 1*8 80 2-05 160 2-5 320 3 -95 632 0 5 -8 10 5-8 20 63 40 7*7 80 9*6 160 15-0 527 0 6 1 10 6-0 20 6-3 40 7*5 80 8-9 160 13 *7 It will be observed that in the case of yellow ( D ) light , there is no observable effect on the minimum change in wave-length required to produce an observable change in hue produced by small additions of white light .
Even when the luminosity of the added white is three times the luminosity of the coloured , the minimum change in wave-length observable is decidedly less than the extent of the monochromatic patch .
In the case of the red also , the addition of white does not increase the sensitiveness of the eye to changes in wave-length .
With the green , however , a slight increase of sensitiveness appears to be produced by the addition of a small quantity of white .
The effect , however , is very small , and , owing to difficulties due to change in luminosity referred to above , is hardly measurable .
By allowing the white to only fall in half each of the patches , and noticing Direct GuaiacumReaction given by Plant Extracts .
121 whether a small movement of the slit caused a greater difference in hue , with or without white , the above results were confirmed , i.e. , in the case of yellow and red , no increase due to the white was observable , and in the case of the green a small addition of white seemed to make the difference in hue very slightly more pronounced .
The above observations seem to indicate that difference in our power of appreciating differences in hue , according as we are comparing two monochromatic patches , or a single patch in which the hue changes gradually from one side to the other , is not due to admixture of white light .
On the Direct Guaiacum Reaction given by Plant Extracts .
By Miss M. Wheldale , Fellow of Newnham College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by W. Bateson , F.R.S. Received April 25 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1911 .
) In the literature dealing with oxidising enzymes considerable attention has been drawn to the fact that the juices of some plants blue guaiacum tincture directly ( direct action ) , whereas the juices of other plants only bring about the blueing on addition of hydrogen peroxide ( indirect action ) .
As an explanation of this phenomenon Cliodat and Bach formulated a hypothesis which has , in part , been generally accepted .
These authors maintain that direct blueing of guaiacum is brought about through the activity of a system consisting of oxygenase , peroxide , and peroxidase .
The peroxidase is an enzyme capable only of transferring oxygen from the peroxide to the guaiacum .
The peroxide , after reduction , is again re-oxidised by a second enzyme , the oxygenase .
The juices of such plants as give a direct action contain , according to Chodat and Bach , all three components of the system .
In others , the peroxidase alone is present , and hence the guaiacum cannot be oxidised until a peroxide , such as hydrogen peroxide , is artificially supplied .
In a recent paper Moore and Whitley* have cast considerable doubt upon the existence of any such enzyme as an oxygenase and give experimental evidence as proof of the view that all plants contain a peroxidase , * Moore and Whitley , " The Properties and Classification of the Oxidising Enzymes , " '"Biochem .
Journ. , ' vol. 4 , 1909 .

