An Account of the Measurement of an Arc of the Meridian , extending from iDunnose , in the Isle of Wight , Latitude 500 37 ' 8 " , to Clifton , in Yorkshire , Latitude 530 27 ' 31 " , in course of the Operations carried on for the Trigonometrical Survey of England , in the Years 1800 , 1801 , and 1802 .
By Major William Mudge , of the Royal Artillery , F.R.S. Read June 23 , 1803 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 383 .
] In this paper we are presented with a further continuation of the several accounts given , ever since the year 1785 , of the trigonometrical surveys carried on over various parts of the kingdom .
Having now proceeded a great way in these surveys , Major Mudge thought -it high time to attempt the measurement of a considerable arc of the meridian in our latitudes .
He first assigns his reasons for preferring the meridian he has here adopted , which depend chiefly on the nature of the country being less hilly and liable to less obstruction than any other tract of the length of this arc in the island .
He fixed on Dunnose , in latitude 50ยง 37 ' 8 " , for the southern extremity , and on Clifton , a small village in the vicinity of Doncaster , latitude 530 27 ' 31 " , for the northern termination of this arc : and near the latter place he found a convenient plain , viz. Misterton Carr , for the measurement of a base of verification .
As the accuracy of the zenith observations would be most.essential towards the perfection of this measurement , a new zenith sector was constructed for the purpose by Mr. Ramsden , and finished by Mr. Berge , the excellence of which is here attested by its being called the first instrument of its kind .
Its merits consist chiefly in the means of uniting the sectorial tube to its axis , so as to insure the permanency of the length of its radius when erected for observation ; in a more accurate method of adjusting the instrument vertically ; an easy way of placing the face of its arch in the plane of the meridian ; and a contrivance by which the plumb-line can be brought precisely over the point marking the centre of the circle , of which the divided arch of the sector should be a part .
Having given a minute description of this instrument , and of the preparatory operations for the series of observations to be made with it , such as the construction of a proper observatory , and other auxiliary requisites , the author proceeds to give us , in different tables , the angles of a number of triangles observed near the north end of the arc ; the calculations of the sides of a series of triangles extending from Dunnose to Clifton ; and , from these data , a calculation of the meridional distance between Dunnose and Clifton .
Then come the observations with the zenith sector at Dunnose , Clifton , and Arbury Hill , near Daventry , a point almost in the middle of the arc , which was chosen with a view to ascertain how far the observations at the terminations would agree with others made for finding the value of its parts .
A few additional observations made at the Royal Observatory are also given , serving to demonstrate the precision of the former ones , and the accuracy of the instrument .
Next follow the extensive and laborious calculations by which , in order to assimilate the numerous observations made at different times , they are all reduced , from the respective days on which they were made to the 1st of January 1802 : the equations here introduced are those for aberration , nutation , semi-annual solar equation , precession , and refraction .
The general conclusions deduced from this ample stock of observations and calculations are , that the whole arc , subtending an angle of 20 50 ' 23 " , measures 1,036,337 feet ; so that the length of a degree on the meridian , in latitude 52ยง 2 ' 20 " , is = 60-820 fathoms .
This degree , at the latitude of Arbury Hill , is found to be 42 fathoms longer ; whereas , admitting the earth to be an ellipsoid , with the ratio of its axis as 229 to 230 , it should be 10 fathoms less .
On maturely weighing all the causes that may have occasioned this deviation , it is thought most likely that , owing to different attractive forces , which increase as we proceed northward , the plumb-line of the sector has been drawn somewhat towards the south at each of the stations , -a circumstance that must be carefully attended to in the prosecution of this survey , whenever the zenith sector is to be used .
It is observed in general , that meridional observations carried on in insular countries are not so likely to afford just conclusions , with regard to the different lengths of the degrees , as the same operations if conducted in places very remote from deep seas .
Adverting , lastly , to the operations of the French astronomers who have measured the arc of the meridian between Paris and Barcelona , which distance was found = 3,527,921 English feet , this , combined with the arc lately measured , gives the whole meridional distance between Clifton and Barcelona , being 1.2ยง 5 ' 42I.79 , something more than the thirtieth part of the whole circumference of the globe , = 4,411,968 feet .
According to this determination , the mean length of a degree of the meridian , in latitude 470 24 ' , will be = 60,795 fathoms ; and in the latitude 510 9 ' , the degree will measure 60,825 fathoms .
In an Appendix are subjoined the latitudes and longitudes of those places intersected in the surveys of Essex , Suffolk , &amp;c. whose distances from their respective places of observation are given in the Philosophical Transactions for 1800 ; which , it is asserted , cannot but be highly useful , as they may be depended on ; the interior surveys of those parts having since proved that no erroneous intersections had been made in those operations .

