XXII .
Observations and Remarks on the Figure , the Climate , and tlw Atmosphere of Saturn , and its Ring .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F. R. S. Read June 26 , i8o6 .
VMY last year 's observations on the singular figure of Saturn having drawn the attention of astronomers to this subject , it may be easily supposed that a farther invesigation of it will be necessary .
We see this planet in the course of its revolution round the sun in so many various aspects , that the change occasioned by the different situations in which it is viewed , as far as relates to the ring , has long ago been noticed ; and HUYGENS has given us a very full explanation of the cause of these changes.* As the axis of the planet 's equator , as well as that of the ring , keeps its parallelism during the time of its revolution about the sun , it follows that the same change of situation , by which the ring is affected , must also produce similar alterations in the appearance of the planet ; but since the shape of Saturn , though not strictly spherical , is very different from that of the ring , the changes occasioned by its different aspects will be so minute that only they can expect to perceive them who have been in the habit of seeing very small objects , and are furnished with instruments that will show them distinctly , with a very high and luminous magnifying power .
If the equator of the planet Jupiter were inclined to the ecliptic like that of Saturn , I have no doubt but that we should see a considerable change in its figure during the time of a synodical revolution ; notwithstanding the spheroidical figure occasioned by the rotation on its axis has not the extended flattening of the polar regions that I have remarked in Saturn .
But since not only the position of the Saturnian equator is such that it brings on a periodical change in its aspect , amounting to more than 62 degrees in the course of each revolution , but that moreover in the shape of this planet there is an additional deviation from the usual spheroidical figure arising from the attraction of the ring , we may reasonably expect that our present telescopes will enable us to observe a visible alteration in its appearance , especially as our attention is now drawn to this circumstance .
In the year 1789 I ascertained the proportion of the equatorial to the polar diameter of Saturn to be 22,81 to 20,61 , * and in this measure was undoubtedly included the effect of the ring on the figure of the planet , though its influence had not been investigated by direct observation .
The rotation of the planet was determined afterwards by changes observed in the configuration of the belts , and proper figures to represent the different situation of the spots in these belts were delineated .
In drawing them it was understood that the shape of the planet was not the subject of my consideration , and that consequently a circular disk , which may be described Phil. Trans. for 790o , page 17 .
f Ibid. for 1792 , page 2Z .
without trouble , would be sufficient to show the configurations of the changeable belts .
Those who compare these figures , and others I have occasionally given , in which the particular shape of the body of the planet was not intended to be represented , with the figure which is contained in my last Paper , of which the sole purpose was to express that figure , and wonder at the great difference , have probably not read the measures I have given of the equatorial and polar diameters of this planet ; and as it may be some satisfaction to compare the appearance of Saturn in 1789 with the critical examination of it in 18o5 , I have now drawn them from the two papers which treat of the subject ; Fig. i , Plate XXI .
represents the spheroidical form of the planet as observed in 1789 , at which time the singularity of the shape since discovered was unknown ; and Fig. a represents the same as it-appeared the 5th of May , .
1805 .
The equatorial and polar ciameters that were established in 1789 are strictly preserved in both figures , and the last differs from the first only in having the flattening at the poles a little more extended on both sides towards the equatorial parts .
It is in consequence of the increase of the length of this flattening , or from some otler cause , that a somewhat greater curvature in the laitudes of 40 or 45 degrees north and south has taken place ; and as these differences are very minute , it will not appear extraordinary that they should have been overlooked in i'789 , when my attention was entirely talen up with an examination of the two principal diameters of the planet .
The use of various magnifying powers in observing minute objects is not generally understood .
A low power , such as N2 457 2oo or i60 , with which I have seen the figure of Saturn , is not sufficient to show it to one who has not already seen it perfectly well with an adequate high power ; an observer , therefore , who has not an instrument that will bear a very distinct magnifying power of 500 , ought not to expect to see the outlines of Saturn so sharp and well defined as to have a right conception of its figure .
The quintuple belt is generally a very good criterion ; for if that cannot be seen the telescope is not sufficient for the purpose ; but when we have entirely convinced ourselves of the reality of the phenomena I have pointed out , we may then gradually lower the power , in order to be assured that the great curvature of the eyeglasses giving these high powers , has not occasioned any deceptions in the figure to be investigated , and this was the only reason why I mentioned that I had also seen the remarkable figure of Saturn with low powers .
In very critical cases it becomes necessary to calculate every cause of an appearance that falls under the province of mathematical investigation .
For this reason I have always looked upon an astronomical observation without a date as imperfect , and the journal-method of communicating them is undoubtedly what ought to be used .
For instance , when it is known that my last year 's most decisive observation , relating to the singular figure of Saturn , was made the 5th of May , astronomers may then calculate by this date the place pf Saturn and of the earth ; their distances from each other , and the angle of illumination of the Saturnian disk ; by these means we find the gibbosity of the planet in the given situation , and ascertain that the defalcation of light could not then amount to the one hundredth part of a second of a degree , and that consequently no error could arise from that cause .
I have divided the following observations into two heads , one relating entirely to the figure of the body of Saturn , the other concerning the physical condition or climate and atmosphere of the planet .
Observations of the Figure of Saturn .
In the collection of my observations on the planet Saturn , I have met with one made i8 years ago , which is perfectly applicable to the present subject , and is as follows : August 2 , 1788 , 21h 58 ' .
o2-feet reflector , power 300 .
Admitting the equatorial diameter of Saturn to lie in the direction of the ring , the planet is evidently flattened at the poles .
I have often before , and again this evening , supposed the shape of Saturn not to be spheroidical , ( like that of Mars and Jupiter , ) but much flattened at the poles , and also a very little flattened at the equator , but this wants more exact observations .
April 16 , 1806 .
I examined the figure of the body of Saturn with the 7 and lo-feet telescopes , but they acted very indifferently , and , were I to judge by present appearances , I should suppose the planet to have undergone a considerable change ; should this be the case , it will then be necessary to trace out the cause of such alterations .
April 19 .
io-feet , power 3go .
The polar regions are much flattened .
The figure of the planet differs a little from what it appeared last year .
This may be owing to the increased opening of the ring , which in four places obstructs now the view of the curvature in a higher latitude than it did last year .
The equatorial regions on the contrary are more exposed to view than they have been for some time past .
May 2 .
lo-feet , power 375 .
The polar regions are much flatter than the equatorial : the latter being more disengaged from the ring appear rather more curved than last year , so that the figure of the planet seems to have undergone some small alteration , which may be easily accounted for from our viewing it now in a different aspect .
The planet Jupiter not being visible , we cannot compare the figure of Saturn with it ; but from memory I am quite certain that the flattening of the Saturnian polar regions is considerably more extended than those of Jupiter .
May 4 .
lo-feet , power 527 .
The equatorial region of Saturn appears to be a little more elevated than last year .
This part of the Saturnian figure could not be examined so well then as it may at present , the ring interfering with our view of it in four places , which are now visible .
The flattening.on both sides of the pole is continued to a greater extent than in a figure merely spheroidical , such as that of Jupiter ; and this makes the planet more curvedin high latitudes .
The planet being in the meridian , the equatorial shape of Saturn -appears a little more curved than last year ; but the air is not sufficiently pure to bear high powers well .
May 5 .
lo-feet , power 527 .
The air is very favourable , and I see the planet well withi this power ; its figure is very little diiferent from what it was last year .
The polar regions are more extendedly flat than I suppose they would have been if the planet had received its form only from the effect of the centrifugal force arising from its rotatory motion .
The equatorial region is a little more elevated than it appeared last year .
The diameter which intersects the equator in an angle of about 40 or 45 degrees is apparently a little longer than the equatorial , and the curvature is greatest in that latitude .
The planet being in the meridian and the night beautiful , I have had a complete view of its figure .
It has undergone no change since last year , except what arises from its different situation , and a greater opening of the ring .
May 9 .
Power 527 .
The air being very clear , I see the figure of Saturn nearly the same as last year ; the flattening at the poles appears at present somewhat less ; the equatorial and other regions are still the same . ?
May 15 , 1oh 0o ' .
I examined the appearance of Saturn , and compared it with the engraving representing its figure in last year 's volume of the Phil. Trans. The outlines and all the other features of this engraving are far more distinct than we can ever see them in the telescope at one view ; but it is the very intention of a copper-plate to collect together all that has been successfully discovered by repeated and occasional perfect glimpses , and to represent it united and distinctly to our inspection .
Indeed by looking at the drawings contained in books of astronomy this will be found to be the case with them all.* The equatorial diameter of my last year 's figure is how* For an instance of this , see To BI M AYERI Opera inedita .
Appendix Observationum .
Ad Tabula Selenograpbicamn Animadversiones , wnere the annexed accurate and valuable plate represents the moon such as it never can be seen in a telscope , ever a very little too short ; it should have been to the polar diameter as 35,4 to 3$ , which is the proportion that was ascertained in 1789 , from which I have hitherto found no reason to depart .
The following particulars remain as my last year 's obserVations have established them .
The flattening at the poles of Saturn is more extensive than it is on the planet Jupiter .
The curvature in high lati .
tudes is also greater than on that planet .
At the equator , on the contrary , the curvature is rather less than it is on Jupiter .
Upon the whole , therefore , the shape of the globe of Saturn is not such as a rotatory motion alone could have given it .
I see the quintuple belt , the division of the ring , a very narrow shadow of the ring across the body , and another broader shadow of the body upon the following part of the ring ; and unless all these particulars are very distinctly visible we cannot expect that our instrument should show the outlines of the planet sufficiently well to perceive its peculiar formation .
May 16 , loh lo ' .
The greatest curvature on the disk of Saturn seems to be in a latitude of about 40 degrees .
May i8 .
The difference between the equatorial and polar diameters appears to be a little less than the measures taken September 14 , 1789 , give it ; but as the eye was then in the plane of the equator , and is now about 16 degrees elevated above it , we cannot expect to see it quite so much flattened at present .
June S. The shadow of the ring falls upon the body of the planet southwards of the ring , towards the limb ; it grows a little broader at both ends where it is upon the turn round the globe .
June 5 .
The planet Jupiter is not sufficiently high for distinct vision , and Saturn is already too low to use a proper magnifying power ; but nevertheless the difference in the formation of the two planets is evident .
The equatorial as well as polar regions on Jupiter are more curved than those of Saturn .
June 9 .
The air is beautifully clear , and proper for critical observations .
The breadth of the ring is to the space between the ring and the body of Saturn as about 5 to 4 .
See Fig. 3 .
The ring appears to be sloping towards the body of the planet , and the inside edge of it is probably of a spherical or perhaps hyperbolical form .
The shadow of the ring on the planet is broader on both sides than in the middle ; this is partly a consequence of the curvature of the ring which in the middle of its passage across the body hides more of the shadow in that place than at the sides .
The shadow of the body upon the ring is a little broader at the north than the south , so as not to be parallel with the outline of the body ; nor is it so broad at the north as to become square with the direction of the ring .
The most northern dusky belt comes northwards on both sides as far as the middle of the breadth of the ring where it passes behind the body .
It is curved towards the south in the middle .
I viewed Jupiter , and compared its figure with that of Saturn .
An evident diTerence in the formaation of the two MDGCCCVI .
g3 0 planets is visible .
To distinguish the figure of Jupiter properly it may be called an ellipsoid , and that of Saturn a spheroid .
Observations on the periodical Changes of the Colour of the polar Regions of Saturn .
In the observations I have given on the planet Mars , it has been shown that an alternate periodical change takes place in the extent and brightness of the north and southl polar spots ; * and I have there suggested an idea that the cause of the brightness might be a vivid reflection of light from frozen regions , and that the reduction of the spots might be ascribed to their being exposed to the sun .
The following observations , I believe , will either lead us to similar conclusions with respect to the appearance of the polar regions of Saturn , or will at least draw the attention of future observers to a farther investigation of the subject .
With high magnifying powers the objects we observe require more light than when the power is lower ; this affords us a good method of determining the relative brightness of the different parts of a planet .
The less bright object will be found deficient in illumination when the power exceeds what it will bear with ease .
I have availed myself of this assistance in the observations that follovw .
June 25 , 178 1 With an aperture of 6,3 inches I used a magnifying power of 46o .
This gave a kind of yellowish colour to the planet Saturn , while the ring still retained its full white illumination .
November 1 , 1793 .
From the quintuple belt towards the south pole the whole distance is of a pale whitish colour ; less bright than the white belts , and much less bright than the ring .
This has been represented in a figure which was given in the volume of the Phil. Trans. for 1794 , page 32 .
It is to be noticed that the south pole of the planet had been long exposed to the influence of the sun , and the former polar whitishness was no longer to be seen .
Jan. 1 , 1794 .
The south polar regions are a little less bright than the equatorial belt .
Nov. 5 , 1796 .
The space between the quintuple belt and the northesn part of the ring is of a bright white colour .
This seems to indicate that the whiteness of the northern hemisphere of Saturn increases when there is less illumination from the sun .
May 6 , 1806 .
The north pole of Saturn being now exposed to the sun , its regions have lost much of their brightness ; the space about the south pole has regained its former colour , and is brighter and whiter than the equatorial parts .
May 15 .
The south polar regions of Saturn are white ; those of the north retain also some whitishness still .
May 18 .
With a magnifying power of 527 , the south polar regions remain very white .
The equatorial parts become of a yellowish tinge , and about the north pole there is still a faint dusky white colour to be seen .
June 3 .
The south polar regions are considerably brighter than those of the north .
These observations contrasted with those which were made when the south pole was in view complete nearly half a 380 Saturnian year , and the gradual change of the colour of the polar regions seems to be in a great measure ascertained .
Should this be still more confirmed , there will then be some foundation for admitting these changes to be the consequence of an alteration of the temperature in the Saturnian climates .
And if we do not ascribe the whiteness of the poles in their winter seasons immediately to frost or snow , we may at least attribute the different appearance to the greater suspension of vapours in clouds , which , it is well known , reflect more light than a clear atmosphere through which the opaque body of the planet is more visible .
The regularity of the alternate changes at the poles ought however to be observed for at least two or three of the Saturnian years , and this , on account of their extraordinary length , can only be expected from the successive attention of astronomers .
On the Atmosphere of Saturn .
June 9 , 18o6 .
The brightness which remains on the north polar regions , is not uniform , but is here and there tinged with large dusky looking spaces of a cloudy atmospheric appearance .
From this and the foregoing observations on the change of the colour at the polar regions of Saturn arising most probably from a periodical alteration of temperature , we may infer the existence of a Saturnian atmosphere ; as certainly we cannot ascribe such frequent changes to alterations of the surface of the planet itself : and if we add to this consideration the changes I have observed in the appearance of the 466 1/ ; os.ym iis ND CC ( c ( VWI./ Yi/ rc 'Xl p.y662.-_.__ -..- .
1I !
I 11 iII lI.t/ -A *t 7 I. iI II I ?
iii Ii , Iii i Ii t ... ,2. .
IIiN e belts , or even the belts themselves , we can hardly require a greater confirmation of the existence of suchan atmosphere .
A probability that the ring of Saturn has also its atmosphere has already been pointed out in a former Paper .
Slough , near Windsor , June I z , 1806 .

