II .
" On a remarkable Alteration of Appearance and Structure of the Human Hair .
" By ERASMUS WILSON , F.R.S. Received March 12 , 1867 .
I have the honour of submitting to the Royal Society a specimen of human hair of very remarkable appearance .
Every hair is brown and white in alternate bands , looking as if encircled with rings ; and this change of aspect extends throughout the whole length of the hair , and gives to the general mass a curiously speckled character .
The brown segment of the hair , which represents its normal colour , measures about a1 of an inch in length , or something less than a quarter of a line ; the white , or abnormal segment about half that length , namely T1Y of an inch ; and the two together about -1 of an inch , or one-third of a line .
The hair was taken from a lad aged seven years and a half , a gentleman 's son ; he is reported as being " an active , healthy boy , quick and intelligent .
" He was delicate up to the age of four , having suffered in quick succession the diseases of childhood , a severe attack of croup , and several attacks of convulsions .
The change in the appearance of the hair was first noticed when he was between two and three years old , and has 406 AMarch 21 , increased perceptibly during the last two years .
There is no similar alteration of structure of the eyebrows and eyelashes .
His complexion is dark , while that of a younger brother is fair ; and the latter is free from any alteration of the hair .
Examination of the hair with a lens shows that the cylinder of the hair is perfectly uniform , that the white portion is contained within the cuticle and occupies the whole breadth of the cylinder ; whilst it frequently presents a rounded cone at the central extremity , and breaks up into fibres at the opposite or distal end ; and in some instances this fibrous structure is apparent at both ends of the white segment .
Moreover , by transmitted light , the white segment is found to be opake , and consequently presents a dark shade , while the intermediate or brown portion has the transparency of normral hair .
When the transparency of the hair is increased by immersion in Canada balsam slightly diluted with spirits of turpentine , the white and opake segment is reduced in dimensions , and is rendered more or less transparent by imbibition of the volatile fluid ; moreover it is clearly demonstrated by this process that the opacity of the segment its whiteness when seen by reflected light , and its darkness by transmitted light , are all due to the presence , in the fibrous portion of the hair , of spaces filled with air-globules .
The air-spaces are necessarily very numerous and assembled closely together ; while at the ends of the white segment they have more or less of a linear arrangement , and give a fibrous appearance to the opake mass .
Moreover the partial transparency of the hair caused by the balsam demonstrates that , besides the air-spaces , large and small , contained in the opake portion , minute air-spaces , sometimes arranged in linear order , and sometimes communicating and forming short irregular canals , are also met with in the transparent part of the hair .
And , in addition to the minute air-spaces of the plates of the fibrous portion of the hair , an accumulation of air-globules is also very apparent in the cells of the medulla .
It is evident from this examination of the hairs , that they are imperfect in structure and development , and that their imperfection indicates a weak producing organ , and probably a weakly constitution of the individual ; that the cells of which the fibrous portion of the hair is composed , instead of being filled with a horny plasma , are tinged with aqueous fluid , and the desiccation of this fluid leaves behind it vacuities which in the subsequent growth of the shaft become filled with air .
The most remarkable phenomenon in connexion with the case , however , is the alternation of imperfect and perfect cells , the period of continuance of the two processes ( supposing them to be equally active in point of time ) being twice as long for the perfect as for the imperfect structure .
Since the publication of the observations of Berthold in Miiller 's 'Arcbiv ' for 1850 , it is generally believed that the hair grows faster during the day than during the night ; hence the first suggestion that occurred to me in connexion with the present case , seeing that the white or opake segment .
was shorter by one-half than the brown , was that the former represented the slower growth by night , and the latter the quicker growth by day the white and the brown together representing an entire day of twenty-four hours .
But other observations by myself have given , as the average growth of the hair of the head in persons who had been shaved , of an inch for the week , and consequently -1 of an inch for the twenty-four hours .
Now the length of hair comprehended by the white and the brown in the present case is 1of an inch , and consequently a much more active growth than is normally met with-corresponding , in fact , in a similar ratio , with thirty-seven hours instead of twenty-four .
I therefore refrain from speculating upon the cause of alternation of the healthy and morbid structure presented by this case , and restrict myself to the narration of the fact that during a certain space of time , amounting to a day or more , the hair is produced of normal structure , while during another space of time of undetermined extent the hair is produced unhealthily , -that the periods of healthy formation correspond pretty accurately in extent , as do those of unhealthy formation , while the latter , in measurement , are only half as extensive as the former , -moreover , that the differences of the pathological operation are , the production of a horny plasma in the normal process , and of serous and watery cell-contents in the abnormal process .
I may further observe that it is by no means improbable that the " dead " and faded hair which is met with after some illnesses and in instances of debilitated health may be due to a similar pathological process , although wanting in the periodicity and alternation which render the present case so remarkable .

