Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
417 actical importance to the plant .
I am inclined to " believe , from t , chs'* experiments on the depletion of leaves , that all saving of at must be valuable , by preventing the checking of translocation inch he observed on cold nights .
The mechanism of the stoma is another subject which does not ad itself to condensed treatment .
I have tried to point out that e stoma has been neglected in the modern reorganisation of plant lysiology from the point of view of irritability .
Some observers sist on the preponderant influence of the guard cells , while Leitgeb the same way exaggerated the importance of epidermic pressure , hereas the two factors should , as far as possible , be considered as irts of a whole and as correlated rather than opposed in action .
1 iv also attempted to show how the stoma , like other parts of the .ant , may be supposed to react adaptively to those signals , which we sually call stimuli .
The attempt which I have made to rank the roblem among the phenomena of irritability , is very tentative in aaracter .
I have ventured to put it forth because I am convinced iiat it is in this direction that advances will be made .
Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
Y. On the Reconstruction of the Stature of Prehistoric Races .
" By Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , University College , London .
Received June 6 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1898 .
( Abstract ) .
1 .
The object of this memoir is to illustrate the general theory by ?
hich we may reconstruct from the knowledge of one organ in a fossil \gt ; r prehistoric race , the dimensions of other organs , when the correla-ion between organs in existing races of the same species has been iscertained .
The particular illustration chosen is the reconstruction \gt ; f probable stature from a measurement of the long bones .
Up till quite recently this subject remained in great obscurity , partly on account of absence of theory , and partly for want of trustworthy data .
2 .
The estimated statures as obtained by Orfila , Topinard or Beddoe , or by use of their methods , differ widely , and those methods have no satisfactory theoretical basis .
It was usual to suppose that there was some mean or average ratio of stature to long bone , and even when it was recognised that this ratio varied with the length of the long bone , it was thought sufficient to determine it for two or three separate ranges of stature , and determine its mean value for these ranges by a very limited number of cases .
* ' Arbeiten , ' 1884 .
Prof. Karl Pearson .
3 .
The first stage in advance was taken when Rollet published measurements made in the Anatomical Theatre at Lyons , of stature and long bones of 100 corpses .
Rollet 's attempt to estalish ratios on the basis of his measurements is not very satisfactory , )^ to him belongs the credit of having first provided a respectable , ^ large amount of data .
Rollet 's work was followed by a very de memoir on the reconstruction of stature by Manouvrier .
Rejecag about one half Rollet s data , he constructed tables giving the aveio*\#169 ; stature for certain ranges of each of the six long bones , and farter what he terms coefficients moyens ultimes , for ascertaining the statre corresponding to long bones lying outside the limits of his tabm bareme .
There are many traces in Manouvrier 's paper of the old vw of a " coefficient " by which the long bone must be multiplied in oxer to obtain the stature .
Beyond this view , it cannot be said to confine any theory , and it suffers from certain marked defects .
In ie first place , proper allowance does not seem to be made for cartiljf and the disappearance of animal matter from the bones .
The 2 m. allowed on each bone appear by no means sufficient .
In the sec\amp ; d place , Manouvrier does not seem to me to justify his extension ) !
results obtained from the French to very divergent races .
He meiy remarks that individ ual variations are greater than ethnic .
Even if 1l\amp ; extension be made , it must be done with hesitation , and with a id recognition of the assumptions made .
Lastly , we may note that fcf statures obtained from the different long bones by Manouvrier 's tao for particular races , are often rather widely divergent among the-selves , and no attempt is made to account for this divergence .
4 .
Manouvrier 's memoir was rapidly followed by an excellent pita of work from Rahon , who collected measurements of the long bonesf a very wide series of local races of man , and reconstructed th-r stature by aid of Manouvrier 's tables .
This memoir will remaint first-class importance even if better reconstruction formulae than the of Manouvrier are adopted .
Manouvrier 's tables have been used* recent German memoirs , as those of JSTitsche and Kollmann on to skeletons of the Row Graves and of the Schweizersbild .
They a accepted at present as the standard tables for the reconstruct^ of stature .
5 .
The present memoir starts with the theory of probability , whit the author has already applied to other problems in evolutio and deduces the most probable stature for any combination of the foi long bones .
It is shown that for a population with normal correlatio ) the relation between stature and one or more long bones is alwa ] linear .
A general theorem is proved to show that no linear functio of the long bones can give the probable stature with so sma a probable error as the regression formula of the theory of probability From this result the following conclusions are obtained : Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
419 ( ?
) No constancy of the ratio stature to long bone is theoretically 3 be expected , but the ratio of deviation from mean stature to eviation from mean long bone , i.e. , the regression coefficient is the uautity , the constancy of which might be expected .
( ?
) No method of predicting individual stature from the indi-idual long bones , whether one or all are used , can give a result / ith a less probable error than 2 cm .
( c ) For the same length of femur , tibia , and humerus , the stature ishorter the longer the radius .
This result has considerable bear-ng on the relationship of man to the anthropomorphous apes .
6 .
Formulas are then obtained for the reconstruction of probable tature as measured : ( a ) On corpse , from the lengths of the long bones containing nimal matter , and with the cartilages attached .
These will possibly e of service for purposes of criminal investigation .
( b ) In life , from the lengths of the long bones without cartilages , nd free of all animal matter .
Corrections are given for cases in which the femur is measured in he oblique position ; the tibia is measured with the spine ; and the sft , instead of the right , hand members are known .
7 .
While the formulae are tested on twenty cases , taken at random com Rolletls data , with fairly satisfactory results , the step from ariation within the local race to racial variations is not made without .
consideration of the circumstances under which natural selection nil modify a regression formula .
It is pointed out that the divergence between such regression formula ?
really enables us to predict o some extent the nature of the differential selection which has aken place between two local races .
To test how far we may safely -pply our formulae to other than French measurements , the stature f the Ainos and $ is reconstructed by means of them from loganei 's measurements of the long bones , and the result is found o be very satisfactory .
If French regression formulie give good esults for the Aino , they will give , in all probability , good results or prehistoric European races .
At the same time it is most important that material should be obtained for an independent investiga-ion of the regression formulae for another European race .
With t view of illustrating the change in the regression formulae owing to election , the anthropomorphous apes are considered , and it is shown hat the gorilla , in the regression formulae for femur and tibia tands much closer to man than either the chimpanzee or orang .
8 .
The formulae are applied to reconstruct the stature of Palaeolithic nan , Neolithic man in France and Britain , of the Dolmen-builders ind Guanches , of Round Barrow British , and Row Grave Germans , *f Romano-British and Romano-Gauls , of Anglo-Saxons , I ranks , nediaeval French , and of the Naqada race discovered by Professor I)rs .
C. J. Martin and T. Cherry .
Petrie , and measured by Mr. Warren .
The modem populatiot occupying the same districts of Europe as Palaeolithic and Neolith man appear to be taller , but in the case of both south Germany an Prance there appears to be a slight , but sensible , decrease of statui since prehistoric times .
Modern English do not seem to ha\ decreased in stature since the ancient Anglo-Saxons .
In the est mates of stature for the above races , the author differs , in son cases very considerably , from previous writers .
9 .
Beyond the range of normal population ( say from 157 t 175 cm .
for $ ) , the line of regression ceases to " be linear .
A attempt is made , such as existing data will allow of , to express tl line of regression by the equation to a curve .
The constants of th curve are determined for measurements of the four chief long bone and the results exhibited in a diagram , from which it is possible 1 deduce the probable stature corresponding to a given length of an long bone by inspection .
The prediction of the stature of dwar !
from the curve obtained from the data of giants shows only 2'25 cn mean error , and must be considered satisfactory .
Application i then made of the results to reconstruct the stature of Bushmei Andamanese , and Akkas .
These give sufficiently good results 1 lead us to believe that a fair estimate can be made of the stature c European neolithic dwarfs . .
The memoir concludes with a table of reconstructed statures an sexual ratios .
The Nature of the Antagonism between Toxins and Anti toxins .
" By C. J. Martin , M.B. , D.Sc .
Bond .
, Actinj Professor of Physiology , and Thomas Cherry , M.D. , M.S Melb .
, Demonstrator and Assistant Lecturer in Patholog in the University of Melbourne .
Communicated by m D. Halliburton , F.R.S. Received May 7\#151 ; Read June fl 1898 .
In the ' Deutsche Med. Wochenschrift ' for 1894 appeared a contro versy on this subject between Behring and Buchner .
Behrinj maintained that the antagonism was of a chemical nature , and th\#174 ; the antitoxin neutralised the toxin much as an alkali neutralised ai acid .
Buchner , on the other hand , adduced results opposed to thi view , pointing to the interpretation that the action was an indirec one , due to the antitoxin operating in some indirect way through tfcj medium of the cells of the organism .
Since this controversy man ' investigations have been made with the-object of deciding this funds mental point .
At the present time , however , opinion is still divided

