On a new principle of constructing His Majesty 's Ships of War .
By Robert Seppings , Esq. one of the Surveyors of His Majesty 's Navy .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read March 10 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 285 .
] After remarking upon the length of time that has elapsed since any considerable improvement has taken place in the art of shipbuilding , and the causes that appear to have prevented amendments being introduced , the author gives a general outline of the structure of ships , as hitherto built , which he represents as consisting generally of pieces of timber or plank , all placed nearly at right angles to each other .
For , first , the ribs rise at right angles to the keel .
The ribs are crossed , on their inner as well as outer side , with planks at right angles to them , and parallel to the keel .
And within the inner linings are also a secondary series of ribs , called riders , at some distance from each other , parallel to the former set , and at right angles to the keel , Across this fabric are placed beams , connecting the opposite sides of the vessel ; and these also are at right angles to all the parts before mentioned .
From beam to beam , at right angles , are the carlings , which support joists parallel to the beams , on which are laid the planks of the deck , in a right line from head to stern , and accordingly preserving uniform adherence to the parallel and rectangular structure , which in every other instance of carpentry is known to every common mechanic to be the weakest form in which any number of lines can be framed together , as it affords no check to that bending of the materials to which they are liable in the direction of their greatest length .
To this cause is to be ascribed the well-known propensity of all large vessels to bend from head to stern when first launched , by reason of the great weight of the two extremities , and the little support at these parts in comparison with the centre , which , from its greater breadth , sustains an over-large proportion of the whole pressure .
This defect of the common structure is shown by reference to a common field gate , which , without the diagonal piece , or brace , would soon fail at every joint , but , when braced , partakes of the advantage of the triangular structure , the principle of which , when correctly applied , occasions the whole stress to be diverted from the transverse direction of the timbers employed , and thrown into that of their length , in which their strength is greatest .
Accordingly , in the new system of ship-building here described , the object of the author has been to introduce diagonal timbers arind planks in as many parts of the fabric as could well be accomplished .
In the first place , a diagonalttimber is introduced between the upright timbers in each interval between the ports ; secondly , instead of the lining , which it has hitherto been the custom to place within the frame , a diagonal timber-work is introduced , intersecting the timbers of the frame at angles of 4O ?
, and about six or seven feet asunder , with their upper ends abutting against what are called the shelf-pieces of the gun-deck beams , and having their lower ends supported by the timber strikes .
Between these are also placed other timbers , equally inclined , but in an opposite direction , so as to present a rhombic net-work , which is dowelled to the original frame , and is itself further strengthened by short pieces placed diagonally .
from corner to corner of each rhombic compartment .
Beside the addition which is thus made to the strength of the sides of the vessel , these sides are also more firmly united together by an improved construction of the knees , by which the transverse beams are united to them .
A degree of unity and firmness is also given to the decks by an oblique position of the planks , which , upon the same principle as before , brace the beams and joists , and resist that yielding of the joints which would otherwise take place in their rectangular construction .
The object of the author has been to give as much inflexibility as possible to every part of the hull ; for in this part he conceives that unbending stiffness is better calculated than any yielding elasticity to resist those forces to which this portion of the vessel is liable ; for though a hope has been entertained , that the known weakness of the common construction might lessen the violence of sudden shocks , by allowing each part to yield in some measure to the force impressed , this conception , he thinks , is not founded on any distinct knowledge of principles , and could not be entertained by those who consider that yielding does not imply elasticity , and who observe , that those parts which yield instead of recoiling with equal force , only become progressively weaker , in consequence of the violence they sustain .
In addition to the foregoing means of bracing by oblique position of timbers and decks , Mr. Seppings has introduced another practice , which is altogether new , and contributes to the strength on a totally different principle .
When a frame-work has the form of a parallelogram , its power to preserve that form depends solely on the strength of the joints ; but when the space surrounded by this outline is filled with the same kind of materials , then every part will sustain a proportionate share of any force applied .
Accordingly , in the new system , the openings between the ribs are filled in with slips of timber nearly to the height of the orlop , or lowest tier of beams ; and when these pieces have been fitted , and closely wedged together , they are caulked and pitched over , so as to make the whole frame , from head to stern , to within a few feet of the greatest draught of water , one compact water-tight mass of timber .
Hence , even if any of the outer planking of the bottom were to be knocked off , the ship might not only for a time be kept afloat , but permanently be secured from sinkinog ; whereas , upon the old system , the starting of a plank has been often fatal to the ship and crew .
In addition to these principal improvements of Mr. Seppings , others of less importance are also described , and some observations are added respecting the economy of the new construction , not only with regard to the quantity of timber necessary , but also the quality , and the facility of replacing any parts that may afterwards be found decayed .

