5 24 Electrical Resistance of Thin Liquid Films .
[ Mar. 17 March 17 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
Professor J. Emerson Reynolds was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Electrical Resistance of Thin Liquid Films , with a Revision of Newton 's Table of Colours .
" By A. W. Reinold , M.A. , Professor of Physics in the Royal Naval College , Greenwich , and A. W. Rucker , M.A. , Professor of Physics in the Yorkshire College , Leeds .
Communicated by Professor W. Grylls Adams , F.R.S. Received March 3 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The authors have made numerous measurements of the electrical resistance of cylindrical liquid films .
Their object was to determine whether a thinning film gave evidence by change in its specific resistance of an approach to a thickness equal to twice the radius of molecular attraction , and also to devise a method of finding the amount of water which might be absorbed by or evaporated from it .
This change of constitution had been neglected by previous observers of the properties of films .
The thickness of the films was determined from their colour .
This* necessitated a revision of Newton 's table of colours , which was carried out partly by observations on Newton 's rings , partly by more than 2,000 observations on the films themselves .
Two simultaneous but independent measures of the thickness of the film were made by observing two portions illuminated by light incident at different angles .
In 84 per cent , of the measures made during the final series ' of experiments described in the paper , the difference between the two-values of the thickness thus obtained did not exceed 2 per cent , of its value .
The films were enclosed in a glass case in which they could be formed without admitting any external air .
Elaborate precautions were taken to maintain the aqueous vapour within the case at the tension proper to that in contact with the soap solution .
The resistance of the films was measured by piercing them with 1881 .
] Molecular Electro-Magnetic Induction .
525\gt ; gold wires which were in connexion with the opposite pairs of quadrants of a Thomson 's electrometer .
The resistance of the film between the needles was calculated by comparing the deflection caused by the-difference of potential of the two wires when a current was passing through the film , with that produced by the difference of potential above and below a known resistance placed in the same circuit .
A novel method , the same in principle with the above , was also used to determine the specific resistance of the liquids from which the films were formed .
This was deduced from the difference of potential of two platinum wires cemented into a glass tube in which the liquid was contained .
As these were at some distance from the electrodes , errors due to polarisation were got rid of .
The results of some test experiments made on solutions of sulphuric acid agreed with those of Kohlrausch to within 0*7 per cent. The authors conclude that their experiments show that the specific-resistance of a soap film thicker than 3"74x 10-5 centims. ( the least thickness at which trustworthy observations were made ) is independent of the thickness , and is equal to that of the liquid from which it is formed .
They have , therefore , detected no indication of an approach to a thickness equal to the diameter of molecular attraction , and this leads to the deduction that its magnitude must either be less than is supposed by Quincke ( 0'5 x 10~5 centims. ) , or that the mean specific resistance of the surface layer , the thickness of which is equal to that magnitude , does not differ by 17 per cent , from that of the liquid in mass .
They have further found that soap films , even in an enclosed space , -may , if the precautions above referred to are not taken , readily lose 23 out of the 57*7 volumes of water contained in every 100 volumes of solution , and their experiments show that this quantity may probably be largely exceeded .
They think , therefore , that in all accurate observations on soap films these profound modifications of constitution must either be prevented or measured by a method similar to their own .
They criticise from this point of view the observations of Plateau* and Liidtge , t and conclude by pointing out the extreme sensitiveness-of the electrical method of investigation .
IT .
H Molecular Electro-Magnetic Induction .
' ' By Professor D. E. Hughes , F.R.S. -Received March 7 , 1881 .
The induction currents balance which I had the honour of bringing before the notice of the Royal SocietyJ showed how extremely sen* " Statique des Liquides , " ( 1873 ) , vol. i , p. 210 .
f " Pogg .
Ann. , " ( 1870 ) , vol. cxxxvii , p. 620 .
\#163 ; " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 29 , p. 56 .

