406 Messrs. Dudgeon , Pan ton , and Wilson .
[ Apr. 26 , \#151 ; .
The quantities of homologous protein sufficient to neutralise the precipitin in varying amounts of the same antiserum show some relationship to the amount of antiserum .
The quantities of homologous protein augment with an increase in the amounts of antiserum , but whether the quantities of homologous protein are directly proportional to the amounts of antiserum is not ascertainable from the present data .
The weights of the precipitates formed when increasing amounts of antiserum interact with a constant quantity of homologous protein insufficient to neutralise the whole of the precipitin in the antiserum augment with the amounts of antiserum , but the weights of the precipitates from , each unit of antiserum diminish as the amounts of antiserum increase ( Table III , tubes Nos. 10 , 11 , 12 , and 13 ) .
The weights of the precipitates from 1 c.c. of different antisera are of value in showing the order of magnitude of the weights of precipitin taking part in precipitin interactions .
In conclusion , I beg to express my indebtedness to Prof. Anderson Stuart , in whose laboratory this research was carried out .
The Influence of Bacterial Endotoxins on Phagocytosis .
( Preliminary Report .
) By Leonard S. Dudgeon , P. N. Panton and H. A. F. Wilson .
( Communicated by Dr. F. W. Mott , F.R.S. Received April 26 , Read June 2 , 1910 .
) ( From the Pathological Laboratories , St. Thomas 's Hospital .
) These investigations were undertaken for the purpose of determining the -effect of endotoxic substances on phagocytosis , [ as tested in vitro .
Experiments were made to determine whether these substances , when added to a phagocytic mixture , would cause an increase or a decrease in the phagocytic activity ; whether such action would be general or specific ; whether the action would be affected by subjecting the endotoxins to varying degrees of temperature , and whether the toxins would act directly on the bacteria , the serum , or the leucocytes . .
The present communication is intended only for the purpose of introducing our preliminary results , which are derived from a considerable amount of .experimental enquiry .
The explanation of the mode by which the effects to be described are produced is now under investigation .
1910 .
] Influence of Bacterial Endotoxins on Phagocytosis .
407 Technique.\#151 ; The organisms used in these experiments were as follows:\#151 ; B. Typhosus , B. Paratyphosus , B. Achard , B. Danysz , B. Coli ( several strains ) , B. Friedlander , B. Proteus , B. Prodigiosus , B. Pyocyaneus , Micrococcus Aureus .
These were cultivated on agar at 37 ' C. , and on gelatin at 22 ' C. , for 24 to 72 hours .
In one instance certain of the bacteria referred to above were obtained from broth flasks , which had been incubated for three weeks at 37 ' C. The bacterial extracts were made originally from cultures grown on the surface of the agar , but , for reasons which will be referred to subsequently , this medium was abandoned for gelatin .
To a sufficient growth of the organisms on plate cultivations a measured quantity of sterile salt solution was added , the entire growth was carefully removed , and the thick suspension of bacteria in saline transferred to a sterile agate mortar .
The organisms were then ground up with considerable force in the presence of sterile powdered glass , or , in our later experiments , of sand .
The bacterial extract was then transferred to sterile tubes , centrifugalised at high speed , and the supernatant fluid pipetted off into fresh tubes ; this process was repeated until an extract was obtained free from bacteria .
It was noted that the extracts , and more particularly those obtained from B. Pyocyaneus and B. Proteus , were often turbid , and that the turbidity was increased when the extracts were subjected to high temperatures .
It was undesirable in the case of certain bacteria , namely , B. Typhosus , B. Achard and B. Paratyphosus , to obtain the extracts from the living organisms ; in these instances the cultures were first killed by exposure to heat in the usual way , but similar results were obtained whether the extract was prepared from living bacteria or from those killed by heat .
In a few instances the bacterial suspension was ground up after being frozen in an agate mortar surrounded by solid CO2 .
The phagocytic mixture consisted of washed human leucocytes , pooled normal sera and 24 hour old suspensions in saline of living , never of heated , bacteria .
The whole was incubated for 15 minutes at 37 ' C. In every case fifty leucocytes were counted with the number of bacteria engulfed , and the ratio of phagocytic to non-phagocytic cells noted .
It is convenient to mention here that extracts of organisms cultivated on agar were abandoned ; because , in the majority of instances , the agar medium itself was found to directly inhibit phagocytosis .
We employed agar media standardised to +1*5 , +1*0 , and +0*5 made in our laboratories , and also that derived from other institutions , but similar results were obtained in all cases ; when gelatin was substituted for agar the results were constant , and free from error .
An essential point in the technique , and one upon which the most satisfactory results depend , is to procure a bacterial extract as concentrated as Messrs. Dudgeon , Panton , and Wilson .
[ Apr. 26 possible .
In our earlier experiments one part of bacterial extract was mixed with two parts of normal serum and either incubated for one hour at 37 ' C. and then one volume of the mixture added to equal volumes of leucocytes and bacteria , or the extract was added after 15 minutes incubation .
It was found , however , that the best results were obtained by incubating for one hour at 37 ' C. equal volumes of serum and bacterial extract , and then mixing equal volumes of this with the leucocytes and bacteria .
Incubation for 15 minutes failed to produce the striking effects shown when longer incubation was employed .
The Action of the Endotoxic Substance on the Leucocytes .
Owing to the limited number of experiments performed , this part of our investigation is incomplete .
It would appear that if the endotoxin acts directly on the leucocytes at all , they are capable of complete recovery during the process of washing .
Our experiments fail to indicate any such direct action on the leucocytes themselves .
The Action of the Endotoxic Substance on the Serum .
Equal parts of serum and bacterial extract were mixed together and incubated for one hour at 37 ' C. One volume of this mixture was then added to equal volumes of washed leucocytes and the bacterial suspension .
The experiments were completed in the usual way .
In every instance equal volumes of serum and normal saline were mixed and incubated for the same time , and used as a control .
The following experiments show the direct action of the endotoxin and serum mixture .
Experiment 1.* A. Serum saline mixture 4- leucocytes + B. \#151 ; 50 cells contained 262 bacilli ; non-phagocytic cells , 0 .
B. Serum pyocyaneus extract + leucocytes + B. pyocyaneus\#151 ; 50 cells contained 41 bacilli ; non-phagocytic cells , 30 .
Experiment 2 .
A. Serum saline + leucocytes + B. pyocyaneus\#151 ; 50 cells contained 390 bacilli ; non-phagocytic cells , 0 .
B. Serum pyocyaneus extract+leucocytes -I- B. pyocyaneus\#151 ; 50 cells contained 12 bacilli ; non-phagocytic cells , 43 .
* In this and the following experiments by " serum saline , " " serum pyocyaneus extract , " etc. , is meant one volume of a mixture of equal parts of serum and salt solution , or of serum and the bacterial extract in question , after one hour 's incubation at 37 ' C. 1910 .
] Influence of Bacterial Endotoxins on Phagocytosis .
409 Experiment 3 .
A. Serum saline + leucocytes + B. p\#151 ; 50 cells contained 474 bacilli ; non-phagocytic cells , 0 .
B. Serum proteus extract + leucocytes + \#151 ; 50 cells contained 33 bacilli ; non-phagocytic cells , 24 .
The following experiments demonstrate the completely specific action of the endotoxin:\#151 ; No. of bacteria in 50 cells .
No. of non-phagocytic cells .
Experiment 1 .
A. Serum saline + leucocytes 4- JB .
paratyphosus B 192 0 " + " 4-JB .
Danysz 62 16 B. Serum paratyphosus B. extract + leucocytes 1 15 39 4- B. paratyphosus B. ... J " " " + leucocytes | 89 13 + B. Danysz . . .
Experiment 2 .
A. Serum saline + leucocytes + JB .
Achard 249 1 " + " + B. Danysz 268 1 B. Serum JB .
Danysz extract + leucocytes 4- JB .
Achard 102 11 j ) ) ) \#187 ; H + JB .
Danysz * ... ... . .
25 33 C. Serum B. A chard extract + leucocytes + -B .
A chard 10 42 " , , \#187 ; + " + B. Danysz 123 11 D. Serum JB .
coli extract + leucocytes 4* JB .
Achard 156 2 , , \#187 ; , , + , , 183 3 Experiment 3 .
A. Serum saline 4- leucocytes 4- B. pyocyaneus 234 0 , , 4* " 4- M. aureus 99 20 B. Serum B. pyocyaneus extract 4- leucocytes 4- B. pyocyaneus 7 44 " " 4- " 4- M. aureus 56 24 " , , 4- " 4- B. pyocyaneus 1 equal 7 j rols .
36 44 " , , 4- " 4- ilf .
aureus 36 C. Serum M. aureus extract 4- leucocytes 4- JB .
pyocyaneus 236 4 " " 4- , , 4- M. aureus 36 38 " " 4- " 4- JB .
pyocyaneus \ 167 6 " \#187 ; + 99 +M .
aureus J 53 28 .
In the third experiment of this series , the specific nature of the endotoxic action is clearly shown when the leucocytes and equal volumes of cocci and bacilli are mixed together .
We may remark that the degree of phagocytosis in all our experiments is e stimated by the number of organisms engulfed in a given number of cells , but 410 The Influence of Bacterial Endotoxins on Phagocytosis .
the ratio of active and non-active phagocytes is at least of equal importance .
In these observations attention has been paid to the percentage of non-phagocytic cells , the importance of which has been previously insisted upon by many workers on phagocytosis .
When the reduction of phagocytosis by endotoxins had been proved , * investigations were undertaken for the purpose of ascertaining whether these toxic substances were resistant to heat .
It was found that they were unaffected by exposure to a temperature of 60 ' C. for periods varying from 15 minutes to three hours , and that the results obtained with the heated substance were identical with those obtained with the unheated , as may be seen from the following experiment .
\#166 ; * No. of bacteria in 50 cells .
No. of non-phagocytic cells .
A. Serum saline mixture + leucocytes + M. aureus 182 9 " , , + " + B. typhosus 198 3 B* Serum J5 .
typhosus extract + leucocytes + M. aureus 26 43 , , " + " + B. typhosus 17 38 C. Serum B. typhosus extract* + leucocytes + M. aureus 46 33 " " + " + B. typhosus 15 37 # This extract has been exposed to a temperature of 60 ' C. for three hours* The Effect of Diluting the Endotoxin .
The effect of diluting an extract before mixing it with the serum allowed a return to the same degree of phagocytosis as occurred in the serum saline mixture , i.e. , the control .
Several notable exceptions were recorded , in which the diluted toxic substance appeared to play the part of a " stimulin .
" In such instances the degree of phagocytosis was far greater than in the control experiments .
The stimulating action of the diluted toxin appeared to be specific .
This may be briefly instanced by the following examples:\#151 ; * Prof. Hewlett very kindly suggested to us that we should ascertain whether similar results could be obtained by substituting washed bacteria for the preparation of the endotoxin , so as to eliminate the possibility that our results might be dependent upon an extracellular substance adhering to the unwashed organisms .
Experiments were performed for this purpose and it would seem that washed bacteria can be employed for the preparation of the bacterial extract , although the results are not quite so striking as in the case of the unwashed .
This fact could be explained possibly by the loss of bacteria in the washing , and , therefore , the small quantity of organisms left for grinding up .
Sleeping Sickness Studied by Precise Methods .
411 No. of bacteria in 50 cells .
No. of non-phagocytiC ' cells .
Experiment 1 .
A. Serum saline + normal leucocytes + B. paratyphosus B. ... 230 2 B. Serum bacterial extract from B. paratyphosus B , + normal leucocytes + B. paratyphosus B. 32 23 C. Serum bacterial extract from B. paratyphosus B. diluted 1/ 10 + normal leucocytes + B. paratyphosus B. Experiment 2 .
492 o A. Serum saline + normal leucocytes + B. prodigiosus 117 5 " + B. typhosus 181 9 B. Serum bacterial extract from B. typhosus diluted 1/ 10 + normal leucocytes + B. prodigiosus 153 4 Serum bacterial extract from B. typhosus diluted 1/ 10 + normal leucocytes + B. typhosus 372 , 0 A Case of Sleeping Sickness Studied by Precise Enumerative Methods : Regular Periodical Increase of the Disclosed .
By Major Bonald Boss , F.B.S. , and David Thomson , M.B. , Ch. B. , D.P.H. ( Beceived May 2 , \#151 ; Bead June 16 , 1910 .
) Prefatory Note by R. Ross.\#151 ; For a long time it has appeared to me that much light might he thrown on infectious diseases , immunity and treatment , by more exact enumeration of the infecting organisms , and that we might even be able ultimately to apply mathematical reasoning to the study of these subjects .
In 1903* I elaborated a method of blood examination , called the thick-film , process , which enables us to detect small organisms in the blood about twenty times more easily than in ordinary preparations % but for the lack of the necessary assistance I was long unable to apply the method to the laborious enumeration of such organisms .
Becently , however , the Advisory Committee for the Tropical Diseases ' Besearch Fund has placed considerable funds at the disposal of the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine for the study of cases in the tropical ward of the Boyal Southern * 'Lancet , ' January 10 , 1903 , and Thompson Yates Reports , vol. 5 , Part I , 1903 .

