rzans .
AMDTCCCL .
_/ aWe , XY'V1..,99 .
_Z ; 7Z ; u7 ?
.:1 : : i. ; -4 " j_ ' " rK k ?
YI : , ,i __ R.:i §§ ; : : : ; ::- : &gt; j. '7C. .
' ' E : D ; : Observations on the Nebulce .
By The Earl of ROSSE , Pres. R.S. , 8c .
8gc .
Received June 19 , -Read June 20 , 1850 .
IN laying before the Royal Society an account of the progress which has been made up to the present date in the re-examination of Sir JOHN HERSCHEL'S Catalogue of Nebulae published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1833 , it will be necessary to say something of the qualities of the instrument employed .
The telescope has a clear aperture of 6 feet , and a focal length of 53 feet .
It has hitherto been used as a Newtonian , but in constructing the galleries provision was made for the easy application of a little additional apparatus to change the height of the observer , so that the focal length of the speculum remaining the same , the instrument could be conveniently worked as a Herschelian .
Although with an aperture so great in proportion to the focal length , the performance of a parabolic speculum placed obliquely would no doubt be very unsatisfactory , still additional light is so important in bringing out faint details , that it is not improbable in the further examination of the objects of most promise with the full light of the speculum , undiminished by a second reflexion , some additional features of interest will come out .
The second reflexion is accomplished in the usual way by a surface of speculum metal ; some experiments have been made , suggested by JAMIN'S paper in the Annals de Chimie for 1848 , to procure a surface of silver suited to the purpose , but without complete success .
Arrangements also have been for some time in contemplation with the view of effecting the second reflexion occasionally by a small glass prism ; and about a year ago a prism was procured from Munich for the purpose : in both cases there would be a great saving of light ; but I am speaking of the instrument as it is , not as it may become , if further improved .
The tube reposes at its lower end upon a very massive universal joint of cast iron , resting on a pier of stonework buried in the ground ; and it is counterpoised so that it can be moved in polar distance with great facility .
A quick motion in polar distance is given by a windlass below , and a slow motion is given by hand above for measurements .
The extreme range of the tube in right ascension at the equator is one hour ; but greater as the polar distance diminishes .
The quick movement in right ascension is given below by a wheel turned by a workman , and the slow motion by hand above ; the instrument is therefore completely under the dominion of the observer .
The tube is slung entirely by chains , and is perfectly steady even in a gale of wind .
As the chain which governs the movement of the telescope passes over a pulley capable of being brought by a little subsidiary apparatus into a line drawn from the 3s2 axis of motion parallel to the axis of the earth , the movement of the telescope can be rendered almost exactly equatorial : there was some mechanical advantage in placing the pulley a little out of that line ; and for such measurements as we have required , we have found the movement of the telescope sufficiently equatorial without the subsidiary apparatus , and therefore have not up to the present time made use of it .
When the telescope is in the meridian , as it moves in polar distance it is guided by a cast-iron arc of a circle about 85 feet diameter nicely planed .
The arc is composed of pieces 5 feet long , each adjusted independently in the meridian by the transit instrument , and secured to massive stonework .
The horizontal axis of the great universal joint gives motion to an index which points to polar distances on an alc of 6 feet radius , by which the telescope is very quickly set in polar distance .
A 20-inch circle with a very delicate level , attached to the telescope , performs the same office , more slowly but with greater acculacy ; and also gives polar distances with considerable precision when duly corrected .
The whole mounting was planned especially with a view of carrying on a regular system of sweeping , for which it is peculiarly adapted ; but the known objects which require examination are so numerous that hitherto we have been fully occupied with them ; and the discovery of new nebule has as yet formed no part of the systematic work of the observatory .
As yet the telescope is not provided with a clock movement .
A clock movement was part of the original design , and there would have been no serious difficulty in carrying it out ; but the want of it has not been very mruch felt , and there were other matters requiring more imrnediate attention .
Various micrometers have been tried , but upon the whole the common wire mnicrometer with thick lines succeeds the best .
The thick lines are formed by coiling very fine silver wire four times round the forks , soldering it there , and then removing the lower half of the coil .
A little spirit varnish unites the fine wires into a thin ribbon with a straight edge , perhaps as perfect as can be made .
The micrometer is used without illumination ; and I have never failed to see the lines in the darkest night ; but of course measurements with thick lines are inferior in point of accuracy to measurements with thin lines in an illuminated field .
Unfortunately any micrometrical contrivance which either diminishes the light of the telescope , or renders the field less dark , extinguishes the faint details of the nebula , which even with an aperture of 6 feet are often barely perceptible .
There have been many ingenious attempts to make fine lines visible in a perfectly dark field , but they have not , at least as far as my experience goes , been entirely successful .
The telescope has two specula , one about three and a half , and the other a little more than four tons weight .
Each speculum was originally provided with a system of levers to afford it an equable support : it was placed upon this system before it was ground , and it has rested upon it ever since .
The system of levers is a combination of three systems in every respect similar , resting on three points under the centres of gravity of the three equal sectors into which the speculum may be supposed to be 500 divided .
Each system consists of one triangle with its point of support directly under its centre of gravity , upon which it freely oscillates .
This triangle carries at its angles three similar points of support for three other triangles , under their centres of gravity , and they again at their angles carry in a simnilar way cast-iron platforms formed of thin ribs so as to make a kind of irregular open-work grating , supported under their centres of gravity .
These platforms are all of equal area though not of similar shape .
As there are three systems there are therefore twenty-seven platforms , which together make a circular disc about an inch in diameter less than the speculum : when arranged however a little apart so as not to touch , they make a disc about the same diameter as the speculum .
Each platform is coated with greased cloth , and may be considered as bearing up one twenty-seventh of the weight of the speculum .
Between the platforms and the speculum pieces of tin plate are inserted to ditninish the friction as imuch as possible .
The platforms being of open-work , they do not prevent the water in which the speculuml is immersed from freely carrying away the heat as it is developed during the process of polishing , which is essential .
It is evident that a speculum so supported will be practically free from strain while in a horizontal position , provided the due action of the levers is not interfered with by any disturbing force ; it will be very much in the same condition as if floating in a vessel of mercury ; when it ceases to be horizontal however new forces come into play : part of the weight must then be resisted by pressure against the edge .
Four:very strong segments of cast iron , each about one-eighth of the circumference , were adjusted to the edge by screws , the segments bearing upon the massive castings which sustained the three primary supports of the lever apparatus .
Provision was made to allow a little motion perpendicular to the plane of the speculum , to guard as much as possible against strain from the elasticity of the lever apparatus , which was however very small , the yielding being less than one-fortieth of an inch .
The two specula of 3 feet aperture I have so long employed are mounted on a similar principle : they have hlowever fewer points of support , and by a little sacrifice of the condition of perfect equilibriurtm , the whole systerri of levers was thrown without difficulty almost exactly into one plane .
They are firee from perceptible flexure in the different positions of the instrument .
With the two specula of 6 feet diameter the case was otherwise .
The 3-feet specula , weighing each about thirteen hundred weight , were very mucht stiffer , in proportion to their weight , than the 6-feet specula .
To have made the 6-feet specula of equal proportionate stiffness , eithler they should have been enormously heavy , or the miaterial should have been so disposed as to give greater stiffness than when simply cast into the shape of a solid disc .
Some years ago it was ascertained by experiments , but on a smtall scale , that it would be practicable to dispose of three-fourths of the material of a speculum so as to secure a great increase of stiffness ; the form adopted was a systemr of hexagonal cells .
Whether on a great scale the difficulties would be too serious to be surmounted is a question ; however it is with solid discs we have had to deal .
The relative stiffness of 501 speculum metal and wrought iron is about five to six three-tenths ; yet strange as it may appear , so delicate is the optical test , that strong pressure of the hand at the back of a speculullm , four tons weight , and nearly six inches thick , produces flexure sufficient to distort the image of a star .
It is obvious , therefore , that a slight inequality in the action of the lever apparatus supporting a 6-feet speculum would produce an amount of flexure sufficient to destroy definition .
It has not been found possible so to secure the 6-feet specula as to prevent a slight change of place in a plane parallel to the plane of the levers , and as the levets are not all in one plane as in the case of the 3-feet specula , and a considerable anmount of friction exists between the speculurn and its lever supports , when the speculum changes place , however slightly , there will be a force tending to disturb the equal actions of the levers .
It has been found that when the speculumn changes its place one-thirtieth of an inch , still adhering to its levers , unmistakeable distortion will be produced .
We have occasionally observed , even during a night 's work , the sudden appearance , and the as sudden disappearance of the rudiments of focal lines , the undoubted evidences of flexure ; but we have not found that flexure , even to the extent of materially disfiguring the iminage of a large star , interferes much with the action of the speculum on the faint details of nebulre , although it greatly lessens its power in bringing out minute points of light , and in showing resolvability where under favourable circumstances resolution had been previously effected .
In the spring of 1848 the heavier of the two specula for nearly three months performed admirably , very rarely exhibiting the slightest indication of flexure .
It then remained inactive for some timtne before and after the solstice , and when we again commenced observing it was found to be in a state of strain ; the friction between the lever apparatus and the speculum had no doubt in the imeantime increased considerably , and the levers being therefore unable to adjust themselves to some sligiht but permanent change in the place of the speculum , they no longer supported it equably .
It was cautiously raised a little by screws for the purpose of re-adjusting the levers , and to our surprise the unequal strain of the screws was found to have produced permanent flexure , so that the speculum did not again performn well till after it had been reground .
From the experiments of Mr. EATON HODGKINSON and others , we should have been prepared for a change of figure in a mass of cast iron , but with a material so brittle and so elastic as speculum metal , the result was quite unexpected .
Recently , in supporting the lighter of the two specula , twenty-seven triangles have been substituted for the twenty-seven platforms , each triangle carrying at its angles three brass balls , so that the speculun rolls freely on eighty-one balls , which support it pretty nearly equably .
This appears to be a great improvement , but I will not dwell further on the subject .
To describe the experiments which have been made with a view of discovering the best means of supporting very large specula , a question of great theoretical and practical difficulty , would occupy too much space , and would require elaborate engravings ; it would besides be foreign to the object of this paper .
502 The same considerations also forbid any more minute description of the telescope and its mounting .
Frorm what has been said , it is evident that the 6-feet specula being occasionally in a state of strain , were not uniform in their action .
There was however another cause of unequal action .
The 6-feet specula , after they have been polished , cannot be tested till they have been removed from the laboratory to the telescope , there to await a good night , the great focal length making it impossible to test them while on the engine .
Now it has often happened that a speculum which has subsequently proved to be incapable of very fine definition , has remained in the telescope during a succession of moderately good ilights , when a great deal of work was done , awaiting a night when the air was in a state to warrant a decisive opinion .
Such a speculum might do good work , but it would not resolve difficult nebule , neither would it bring out faint points of light , even when wide apart .
There is still another cause of the unequal action of our specula far more serious , the varying state of the atmlosphere .
When the air is unsteady , minute stars are no longer points , the diffused image is much fainter , and single stars , easily seen when the air is steady , are no , longer visible .
When many minute stars are crowded together the whole become blended , and instead of a resolved nebula we have merely a diffused , perhaps bright nebulosity .
The transparency of the air varies also quite as much ; and the aspect of the nebulwe changes from night to night , just as the appearance of a distant building alters as the details of the architecture are more or less obscured by the intervening mist .
With these facts , the Society will not be surprised should it be in our power at a future time to communicate some additional particulars , even as to the nebulse which have been the most frequently observed .
The sketches which accompany this paper are on a very small scale , but they are sufficient to convey a pretty accurate idea of the peculiarities of structure which have gradually become known to us : in many of the nebulae they are very remarkable , and seem even to indicate the presence of dynamical laws we may perhaps fancy to be almost within our grasp .
To have made full-sized copies of the original sketches would have been useless , as many mnicrometrical measures are still wanting , and there are many matters of detail to be worlked in before they will be entitled to rank as astronomical records , to be referred to as evidence of change , should there hereafter be any reason to suspect it .
Much however as the discovery of these strange forims may be ccalculated to excite our curiosity , and to awaken an intense desire to learn something of the laws which give order to these wonderful systems , as yet , I think , we have no fair ground even for plausible conjecture ; and as observations have accumulated the subject has become , to my mind at least , more mysterious and more inapproachable .
There has therefore been little temptation to indulge in speculation , and consequently there can have been but little danger of bias in seeking for the facts .
When certain phenomena can only be seen with great difficulty , the eye may imperceptibly be in some 503 degree influenced by the mind ; therefore a preconceived theory may mislead , and speculations are not without danger .
On the other hand , speculations may render important service by directing attention to phenomena which otherwise would escape observation , just as we are sometirnes enabled to recognize a faint object with a small instrument , having had our attention previously directed to it by an instrument of greater power .
The conjectures therefore of men of science are always to be invited as aids during the active prosecution of research .
It will be at once remarked , that the spiral arrangement so strongly developed in Plate XXXV .
LI .
1622 , 51 MESSIER , fig. 1 , is traceable , more or less distinctly , in several of the sketches .
More frequently indeed there is a nearer approach to a kind of irregular intelrrupted annular disposition of the luminous nlaterial than to the regularity so striking in 51 MESSIER ; but it can scarcely be doubted that these nebulae are systems of a very similar nature , seen more or less perfectly , and variously placed to the line of sight .
In general the details which characterize objects of this class are extremely faint , scarcely perhaps to be seen with certainty on a moderately good night with less than the full aperture of 6 feet : in 51 MESSIER , however , and perhaps a few more , it is not so .
A 6-feet aperture so stlikingly brings out the characteristic features of 51 MEsSIER , that I think considerably less power would suffice , on a very fine night , to bring 0out the principal convolutions .
This nebula has been seen by a great many visitors , and its general resemblance to the sketch at once recognized even by unpractised eyes .
MEssIER describes this object as a double nebula without stars ; Sir WILLIAM HERSCHEL as a bright round nebula , surrounded by a halo or glory at a distance from it , and accompanied by a companion ; and Sir JOHN HERSCHEL observed the partial subdivision of the s.f. limb of the ring into two branches .
Taking Sir J. HERSCHEL'S figure , and placing it as it would be if seen with a Newtonian telescope , we shall at once recognise the bright convolutions of the spiral , which were seen by him as a divided ring .
We thus observe , that with each successive increase of optical power , the structure has become more complicated and more unlike anything whicth we could picture to ourselves as the result of any fortl of dynamical law , of which we find a counterpart in our system .
The connection of the companion with the greater nebula , of which there is not the least doubt , and in the way represented in the sketch , adds , as it appears to me , if possible , to the difficulty of forming any conceivable hypothesis .
That such a system should exist , without internal movement , seems to be in the hlighlest degrlee improbable : we may possibly aid our conceptions by coupling with the idea of mrotion that of a resisting medium ; n but we cannot regard such a system in any way as a case of mere statical equilibrium .
Measurements therefore are of the highest interest , but unfortunately they are attended with great difficulties .
Measurements of the points of maxinmut brightness in the motling of the different convolutions must necessarily be very loose ; for although on the finest nights we see them breaking up into stars , the exceedingly minute stars cannot be seen steadily , and to identify one in each case would be impossible with our present means .
The nebula itself , however , is pretty well studded with stars , which can be distinctly seen of various sizes , and of a few of these , with reference to the principal nucleus , measurements were taken by my assistant , Mr. JOHNSTONE STONY , in the spring of 1849 , during my absence in London ; for some time before the weather had been continually cloudy .
These measurements have been again repeated by him this year , 1850 , during the months of April and May .
Just as was the case last year , in February and March the sky was almost constantly overcast .
He has also taken some measures from the centre of the principal nucleus to the apparent boundary of the coils , in different angles of position .
The micrometer employed was furnished with broad lines formed of a coil of silver wire in the way I have described , seen without illumination .
Some of the stars in the nebula are so bright , I have little doubt they would bear illumination ; if so , their positions with respect to some one star might be obtained with great accuracy of course by employing spiders ' lines ; this season however it is too late to make the attempt .
Several of these stars are no doubt within the reach of the great instruments at Pulkova and at Cambridge , U. S. , and I hope the distinguished astronomers who have charge of them will consider the subject worthy of their attention .
Their better climate gives them many advantages , of which not the least is the opportunity of devoting time to measurements without any serious interruption to other work .
I need perhaps hardly add , that measurements taken from the estimated centre of a nucleus , and still more from the estimated termination of nebulosity , are but the roughest approximations ; they are however the only measurements nebulosity admits of , and if sufficiently numerous , I thiink they will bring to light any considerable change of place , or forim , which may occur .
The spiral arrangement of 51 MESSIER was detected in the spring of 1845 .
In the following spring an arrangement , also spiral but of a different character , was detected in 99 MESSIER , Plate XXXV .
fig. 2 .
This object is also easily seen , and probably a smaller instrument , under favourable circumstances , would show everything in the sketch .
Numbers 3239 and 2370 of HERSCHEL'S Southern Catalogue are very probably objects of a similar character , and as the same instrument does not seem to have revealed any trace of the form of 99 MESSIER , they are no doubt much more conspicuous .
It is not therefore unreasonable to hope , that whenever the southern hemisphere shall be re-examined with instruments of great power , these two remarkable nebulae will yield some interesting result .
The other spiral nebulae discovered up to the present time are comparatively difficult to be seen , and the full power of the instrument is required , at least in our climate , to bring out the details .
It should be observed that we are in the habit of calling all objects spirals in which we have detected a curvilinear arrangement not consisting of regular re-entering curves ; it is convenient to class them under a coinmnon name , though we have not the mneans of proving that they are similar systems .
They at present amount to fourteen , four of which have been discovered this spring ; there are besides other nebule in which indications of the same character have been observed , but they are still marked doubtful in our working list , having been seen when the air was not very transparent ; 51 MESSIER , Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 , is the most conspicuous object of that class .
The question may perhaps suggest itself whether there is not something in the aspect of a spiral nebula , which forces upon us the conviction that it is a system with an organization quite different from that of any known cluster .
The only answer I am enabled to give to that question is , that in the exterior stars of some clusters there appears to be a tendency to an arrangenment in curved branches , which cannot well be : unreal , or accidental .
Nos. 480 , 1916 , 1968 , 1972 , are the objects in which I observe that peculiarity noted down in our list of observations as suspected .
As to 1968 , Sir JOHN HERSCHEL uses the following words in his Catalogue , " has hairy-looking curvilinear branches .
" Careful drawings based on measurements would settle the question , whether the suspected curvilinear distribution of the stars is real or not ; this would also perhaps settle another question of interest , whether the distribution of the stars in these objects is reconcileable with the hypothesis of an equal distribution of the stars of the system ; as yet however there has not been time to make the required measurements .
In passing from the spiral to the regular annular nebulae , we perceive we are at once engaged with objects of a very different character : still here even there seems to be something like a connecting link ; the great round planetary nebula , 1-1 838 , Plate XXXVII .
fig. 11 , with a double perforation appears to partake of the structure both of the annular and spiral nebule .
There were but two annular nebule known in the northern hemisphere when Sir JOHN HERSCHEL'S Catalogue was published ; now there are seven , as we have found that five of the planetary nebulae are really annular .
Of these objects , the annular nebula in Lyra is the one in which the form is by far the most easily recognized .
I have not yet sketched it with the 6-feet instrument , because I have never seen it under favourable circumstances : the opportunities of observing it well on the meridian are comparatively rare owing to twilight .
It was however observed seven times in 1848 and once in 1849 .
The only additional particulars I collect from the observations , are that the central opening has considerably more nebulosity in it than it appeared to have with the 3-feet instrument , and that there is one pretty bright star in it , s.f. the centre , and a few other very minute stars .
In the sky round the nebula and near it there are several very small stars which were not before seen , and therefore the stars in the dark opening may possibly be merely accidental .
In the annulus , especially at the extremities of the minor axis , there are several minute stars , but there was still much nebulosity not seen as distinct stars .
The other annular nebula of HERSCHEL'S Northern Catalogue is a mucih fainter object : it has been observed but once with the large instrument , August 1 , 1848 ; but the evidence of resolution appears to have been more complete ; many stars were seen in the annulus ; one of them was very conspicuous .
That a faint nebula shiould be more easily resolvable than a bright one is not unusual , neither is it contrary to probability ; faintness may be owing to distance , or to a wider separationi of the stars , 506 .
, either physically or optically ; in the latter case it is not unlikely that in a faint nebula they might be seen separate with an instrument of great aperture , while in the brighter and more closely packed nebula they were blended together , owing to imperfect definition , arising out of the state of the air , or instrument .
As an example , the dumb-bell is a bright nebula : on three exceedingly fine nights succeeding each other at short intervals , the stars in the brighter parts of the nebula were better shown with 3 feet aperture than they have since been with 6 feet .
Very fine nights , when the air seems to set no limits to magnifying power , are extremely rare , and the dumbbell has not been seen with the great instrument on such nights .
On the other hand , on all ordinary nights , a variety of details are shown by the great instrument which were not seen on the finest nights with the smaller instrument .
There is another fact I may perhaps add , that while high magnifying power brings out minute stars it extinguishes faint nebulosity .
The optical reason is obvious ; but in sketching the durnb-bell nebhla in 1845 that fact was overlooked , and but one eye-piece was used , a very high one ; had there been a low one also used the sketch would have been more complete .
To return to the annular nebulae .
The five planetary nebulae we have ascertained to be annular , are as follows : 464 , Plate XXXVIII .
fig. 12 , has two stars within it ; 2075 has one star a little following the centre ; 2241 , Plate XXXVIII .
fig. 13 , has no star , but is surrounded with a faint external annulus ; 2050 has a perforation not round nor quite symmetrical with the star ; 838 , Plate XXXVII .
fig. 11 , has two stars and two perforations .
In no instance is the central opening quite dark .
Tile planetary nebula , 2047 , is marked in our journal as annular , but the observation is without date and other particulars , and therefore I do not consider it altogether trustworthy .
In 2098 , Plate XXXVIII .
fig. 14 , another planetary nebula , we have not detected any perforation , but it has ansae , whichll probably indicate a surrounding nebulous ring seen edgeways , just as 450 , Plate XXXVIII .
fig. 15 , has apparently a nebulous ring seen on the flat ; and if the annular nebule are really hollow shells , the nebulous ring would cover the comparatively transparent centre ; 365 and 2037 have never been observed .
Passing from the annular nebulae to the nebulous stars , there are two objects wellworthy of especial notice .
Sir JOHN HERSCHEL very accurately describes a nebulous star thus:- " A sharp and brilliant star concentrically surrounded by a perfectly circular disc or atmosphere of faint light , in some cases dying away insensibly on all sides , in others almost suddenly terminated* .
" No. 450 of Sir JOHN HERSCHEL'S Catalogue is one of these nebulous stars , and is there thus described:- " A star of the 8th magnitude , exactly in the centre of an exactly round and bright atmosphere , 25 " diameter .
The star is quite stellar , not a mere nucleus .
Another star , 8th magnitude , distant 100 " , and about 85 ?
n p , has no such atmosphere.-A most remarkable object .
" Plate XXXVIII .
fig. 15 represents this wonderful object as seen with the 6-feet telescope .
It has been several times examined , and as yet we have not seen the slightest indication of resolvability .
The outer ring is seen on a pretty good night completely separated from the nucleus surrounding the brilliant point or star .
The light is very bright , and always appeared to be flickering , owing no doubt to the unsteadiness of the atmosphere .
There is a small dark space to the riglt of the star , which indicates a perforation similar perhaps to that discovered in Nos. 838 , 2050 , and others .
The annular form of this object was detected by Mr. JOHNSTONE STONY , my assistant , when observing alone , and the sketch is his ; I have however since had ample opportunities of satisfying myself that the object has been accurately represented .
Plate XXXVIII .
fig. 16 represents the other nebulous star , * Orionis : the remarkable feature in this object , the dark cavity , not symmetrical with the star , was also discovered by Mr. JOHNSTONE STONY when observing alone with the 3-feet telescope : I have since seen it several times and sketched it .
The components of iOrionis have not been laid down micrometrically , or even with care by the eye , but the dark cavity with respect to the stars is faithfully represented .
If the dark cavity was symmetrical with the stars , it might perhaps be thought by some that the phenomenon was optical , but as it is the thing is impossible .
A small double star nf has similar openings , but they are not so easily seen .
These openings appear to be of the same character as the opening within the bright stars of the trapezium of Orion , the stars being at the edges of the opening .
Had the stars been situated all together within the openings , the suspicion would perhaps have suggestedl itself more strongly that the nebula had been absorbed by the stars .
As it is , I think we can hardly fail to conclude that the nebula is in some way connected with these bright stars , in fact that they are equidistant , and therefore , if the inquiries about parallax , now proceeding with so much activity , should result in giving us the distances of these bright stars , we shall have the distance of this nebula .
The lonrg elliptic or lenticular nebule are very numerous ; I have given three sketches of remarkable objects of this class : the appearance of Plate XXXVII .
fig. 7 suggests the idea of an elliptic annular system seen very obliquely .
A series of very elliptic shells enveloping the nucleus , seen somewhlat obliquely , would perhaps also present the same aspect .
The dark chink in Plate XXXVII .
fig. 8 might indicate either a real openring , the system being an elliptic ring , or merely a line of comparative darkness , the section through the axis of a very long narrow elliptic shell .
In Plate XXXVII .
fig. 9 there is a well-marked stratification , which might possibly be the appearance , Plate XXXVII .
fig. 7 , on the first supposition , would present if seen in another direction .
It is to be hoped that as observations multiply , and these extraordinary objects which abound in the heavens are seen in various directions , we shall gradually become acquainted with their real form .
At present further conjectures would be to no purpose .
The remaining sketch , Plate XXXVIII .
fig. 17 , is the dumb-bell nebula as seen with the 6-feet telescope : the sketch is by Mr. JOHNSTONE STONY , and the form of the nebulosity and its various gradations of intensity have been represented with considerable fidelity .
There was no subsequent opportunity of marking in the stars , 508 NEBULa .
and therefore they have been inserted at random to complete the general effect , and many minute details are still wanting to make the figure complete .
As we have proceeded with our task of re-examining Sir JOHN HERSCHEL'S Catalogue , several groups of nebulae have been discovered , although new objects have not been as yet sought for .
In some cases a nebulous connection has been detected between the individuals of the group , in others not .
Sketches have been made and some measures taken .
The whole subject of the grouped or knotted nebulae is one of deep interest ; but we have not proceeded sufficiently far with it to make it worth while to enter upon it in the present paper , and it only remains to point out A defect common to all the sketches which might mislead if not specially noticed .
In sketching we necessarily employ the smallest amount of light possible , very feeble lamp-light , especially where the objects or their details are of the last degree of faintness .
To see the sketch as we proceed it is often necessary to malk it too strongly : this would be of little moment if the excess of colour was always in the same proportion , especially as different eyes form a very different estimate of the irelative intensities of a nebula and its representation on paper , but it is not so ; the contrast between the faint and bright nebulae and between the faint and bright parts of the same nebula is very liable to be made too slight .
The most important error to guard against is that of supposing that the well-marked confines of the nebula on paper really represent the boundaries of the object in space in all cases .
Frequently there is a very gradual fading away at the edge , the last trace of which is either a luminous mist becoming rarer till imperceptible ; a gauge-like tisste of the faintish imnaginary flocculi , or hairy filaments , which become finer and more scattered till they cease to be visible , showing that the real boundary has not been seen , and that the form of the object would alter if additional optical power could be brought to bear upon it .
The same remark applies to the faint interior details , in most cases probably only in part seen .
Plate XXXV .
figs. 1 and 2 are seen on a scale of half an inch to a Iminute ; the others are on no regular scale : they are about the size of the figures which accompany Sir JOHN HERSCHEL'S Catalogue , the smaller however have been somewhat enlarged where there were details which otherwise could not have been well represented .
Annexed are a few remarks relating to each figure , which seem to make the information conveyed by it more complete : they are for the most part extracts selected from our journal of observations ; in a few cases , however , to save space , merely the substance is given .
Where the 3-feet instrument was employed it is specially mentioned ; in every other case it was the 6-feet instrument .
Plate XXXV .
fig. 1 , H. 1622.-This object has been observed tenty-eight times with the 6-feet instrument ; it had been repeatedly observed previously with the 3-feet instru rent .
September 18 , 1843.-Observed with the 3-feet instrument ; power single lens , 509 1-inch focus ; a great number of stars clearly visible in it , still HERSCHEL'S rings not apparent , at least no such uniformity as he represents in his drawing .
April 11 , 1844.-Observed with the 3-feet instrument , two friends assisting ; both saw centre clearly resolved .
April 26 , 1848.-6-feet instrument .
Saw the spirality of the principal nucleus very plainly ; saw also spiral arrangement in the smaller nucleus .
The following measurements were taken by my assistant , Mr. JOHNSTONE STONY , in the spring of 1849 and 1850 .
Mean of te raetifr lPethe Greatest differMean ofthereatest di Mean of the i Mean of N et observations of No. of obseaence between observations of No. of obseva enceetween tions .
observations and distancetions .
observations and postion the mean .
the mean .
N. n2 .
1 34 43 274 22-2 9-6 N. 1 .
52 4 1 ... ... 2 66 1 N. 2 .
54 041 57 5 00 4 5*4 N. 3 .
10420 223 245-6 2 3-6 N. 4 .
111 57 20 40 4 3-6 2 0-6 N. 5 .
165 35 20 31 1 43-2 2 11 N. 6 .
191 42 1 ... 3 54-0 1 N. 7 .
2112 1 ... ... 2 36'6 1 7 , 8 .
270 42 1 0 ... ... 0 348 1 N. 9 .
23132 43 35 1 23-4 3 6-6 9 , 10 .
197 57 1 ... ... 0 27-0 1 N. 11 .
279 21 44 18 1 498 3 22-2 11 , 12 .
225 27 1 ... . .
0 16 1 N. 13 .
281 37 20 22 3 59-0 1 14 , 15 .
297 15 1 N. 15 .
310 34 44 17 2 55*8 4 13*8 N. a3 22-8 2 0-1 N. 5 ... .
5 7 ... ... .
1 28 3 30 N. yJ { 2 37-8 3 2-4 N. &lt; 1r 46-2 1 N.E 95 7J2 46-8 1 w ; N. f-(-* * ' ****** }1 40-8 1 N. J3 15-6 1 Observations.-There is a great discrepancy between the measured position of 11 and 12 and the rough diagram made at the time of observation .
N. 13 is twice noticed in the observing-book .
Once N. 11 , 13 is taken as one position ; the other times N. 11 and 13 are taken separately , N. 13 being made 1§ 40 ' less than N. 11 ; hence 2700 31 ' is a more probable position for N. 13 than that given in the Table .
The Greek letters are perpendiculars from N. on tangents to the outsides of the convolutions , the tangents from o y3 , y being vertical , that is , parallel to the position 950 7 ' , and those for 8 , s , , v horizontal , i. e. parallel to position 5§ 7 ' .
The greater part of the observations were made when the eye was affected by lamplight , which made it difficult to estimate correctly the centre of the nucleus ; it was of importance that no time should be unnecessarily spent , and after the lamp had been used a new measure was taken , as it was judged that the object was sufficiently seen .
With the brighter stars this would frequently happen before the nucleus was 510 well defined , as all impediments to vision seem to affect nebulae much more than stars the light of which would be estimated as of the same intensity .
In the foregoing list the greatest discrepancies are in the rmeasures of bright objects , and this is probably the proper account of it .
No stars have been inserted in the sketch which are not in the table of measurements .
The general appearance of the object would have been better given if the minute stars had been put in from the eye-sketch , but it would have created confusion .
Plate XXXV .
fig. 2 , I. 1173.-This nebula has been repeatedly observed with the 6-feet instrument .
March 11 , 1848.-Spiral with a bright star above ; a thin portion of the nebula reaches across this star and some distance past it .
Principal spiral at the bottom , and turning towards the right .
March 20 , 1848.-Spirality very evident , though night bad : nebula not traced to upper star .
April 16 , 1849.-Took measures of the stars 1 , 2 .
April 17 , 1849.-Took measulles of the stars 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 from the nucleus ; they are as follows : Mean of obserGreatest differGreatest differvations of posiNo .
of enee between Mean of obserNo .
of ence between No. tion from north observamean and observations of observamean and obserin direction tions .
vation .
distance .
tions .
vation .
n.f. s.p. 0r~~0 1 .
34 1 1 .
2 54-6 2 9*6 2 .
80 35 20 18 1 46-3 3 14-4 3 .
317 330 23 1 48-4 4 13-6 4 .
177 57 1 ... 2 48.1 1 Three very minute stars in the eye-sketch have not been inserted , not having been measured .
Plate XXXVI .
fig. 3 , 1H .
604.-This nebula was observed frequently with the 3-feet instrument , but nothing remarkable seems to have been made out , except the resolvable character of the nucleus .
It was first observed with the great telescope , March 24 , 1846 , and a tendency to an annular or spiral arrangement discovered ; night bad ; March 5 , 1848 , sketched .
March 9 , 1848.-"c Night excellent , a spiral seen in an oblique direction , resolved well , particularly towards the centre , where it is very bright ; Dr. ROBINsON observing .
" Observed March 3 , 1850 ; badly seen .
With the single exception of March 3 , 1850 , we have unfortunately no recent observation of this extraordinary object : it has been passed over , because to observe it , except on a very fine night , would be waste of time .
Plate XXXVI .
fig. 4 , H. 2205.-Observed frequently , and by many friends .
The drawing represents the object with considerable accuracy .
" September 10 , 1849.-Spiral , but query whether this is not more properly an annular than a spiral nebula .
" 511 The details are faint , but can be seen on any moderately fine night .
Plate XXXVI .
fig. 5 , H. 131.-This figure represents the central portion of a very large nebula .
The nebula itself has not been sufficiently examined , but as yet no other portion appears to have a spiral , or indeed any regular arrangement .
The sketch is not very accurate , but represents sufficiently well the general character of the central portion .
" September 6 , 1849.-A spiral .
" September 16 , 1849.-New spiral ; a the brightest branch ; y faint ; i short but pretty bright ; r3 pretty distinct ; s but suspected ; the whole involved in faint nebula , which probably extends past several knots which lie about it in different directions .
Faint nebula seems to extend very far following : drawing taken .
" September 10 , 1849.-An attempt at a drawing taken : fog .
" October 1849.-The whole nebula in flocculi .
" Plate XXXVII .
fig. 6 , Ii .
444 .
-"December 19 , 1848.-Bright star between ; tails and curved filaments ; perhaps annulus around the two nebulae .
" December 22 , 1848.-Sketch made .
c"February 11 , 1849.-Lower streak seems to reach the filaments of right-land nucleus .
" Plate XXXVII .
fig. 7 , H. 854.- " March 31 , 1848.-A curious nebula with a bright nucleus ; resolvable ; a spiral or annular arrangement about it ; no other portion of the nebula resolved .
Observed April 1 , 1848 , and April 3 , with the same results .
" Plate XXXVII .
fig. 8 , H. 1909.- " April 27 , 1848.-A very bright resolvable nebula , but none of the component stars to be seen distinctly even with a power of a thousand .
A perfectly straight and longitudinal division in the direction of the major axis .
Resolvability most strongly indicated towards the nucleus .
" May 2 , 1848.-Not seen so well as on April 27 .
Darkness in the middle , along the major axis barely visible .
" April 1849.-A long ray elliptical .
Major axis perhaps eight times minor axis .
Surface somewhat broken up , and a slight darkness in the direction of the major axis : night indifferent : at intervals a few stars faintly perceptible .
" Plate XXXVII .
fig. 9 , H. 1397.-This sketch was made with great care by my assistant , Mr. JOHNSTONE STONY , and I have no doubt it is very accurate .
Observed and sketched , April 19 , 1849 .
It had been previously observed , March 26 , 1848 , by my former assistant , Mr. RAMBAUT , and I find the following note by him:- ' A most extraordinary object , masses of light appear through it in knots .
" Plate XXXVII .
fig. 10 , H. 399.-Observed December 22 , 1848 , February 11 1849 , and January 16 , 1850 , when the drawing was taken .
The two comparatively dark spaces , one near the vertex and the other near the base of the cone , are very remarkable .
Plate XXXVII .
fig. 11 , HI .
838.-September 27 , 1843.-(3-feet telescope .
) Night pretty good ; a star in the centre and apparently ragged outline .
512 March 7 , 1848.-(6-feet telescope).-Night bad : aurora .
Darkness in the centre ; star not certainly seen ; outline ragged .
March 11 , 1848.Seen by Dr. ROBINSON and my former assistant , Mr. RAMBAUT ; sketch made of it .
" Two stars considerably apart in the central region ; dark penumbra around each spiral arrangement , with stars as apparent centres of attraction ; stars sparkling in it , resolvable ; night excellent .
" Note , by Mr. RAMBAUT : " March 5 , 1848.-Saw two dark and very large spots in the middle ; Lord RossE remarked that all round its edge the sky appeared darker than the average .
" " March 11,1848.-Remarkably fine night ; a brilliant star in the centre ; also star to the right ; round each a black space ( see sketch ) .
" Note by Mr. RAMBAUT : " I March 25 , 1848.-Air steady , but slight haze ; large star visible .
Only at one clear interval could I get a glimpse of the spiral arrangement of this nebula , which I should have totally overlooked had I not seen it so plainly on a former occasion .
" March 26 , 1848.-Second bright star visible ; spiral arrangement hardly perceptible ; not seen so well as on the 11th of March .
" March 27 , 1848.--Not seen so well as last night ; second star seen at rare intervals , power 468 .
" March 28 , 1848.-Night hazy , could not see second star .
" " March 31 , 1848.-Caught one glimpse of second star , but saw the large star very plainly .
" April 1 , 1848.-Night hazy ; spiral arrangement little more than suspected ; nebula very faint .
" April 3 , 1848.-Small star distinctly seen ; spirals tolerably well brought out ; hazy , but air steady .
" April 6 , 1848.-First star seen easily , though hazy ; the second only occasionally ; spiral arrangement hardly discernible .
" January 1850.-Seen very imperfectly ; only one of the stars seen .
" March 9 , 1850.-Second star only seen for a moment .
" Several attempts were made to procure measures of position and distance of the two stars this spring , but in vain , the season was so unfavourable .
In 1848 , the micrometer requiring illumination , no attempt was made .
With the micrometer as at present mounted there would not have been the slightest difficulty in procuring measures .
Fig. 12 , I. 464.--"Annular nebula at the edge of the cluster M. 46 .
Sketched December 22 , 1848 annular , two stars in it .
" January 27 , 1849.-A third star suspected in brightest part .
" January 29 , 1849.-Third star strongly suspected .
" February 13 , 1849.-Observed , nothing further .
" March 16 , 1849.-Saw but two stars in it .
" Fig. 13 , 1 .
2241.- " October 31,1848.as a central spot , at nloments very dark .
" Decemnber 13 , 1848.-Nothing more , except perhaps that faint , external annulus extends further than had been seen before .
December 14 , 1848.-Note by Mr. JOHNSTONE STONY :- ' Three stars near it , somewhat in this fashion ; showed it to Sir JAMES SOUTH .
' " December 16 , 1848.-Sketches made by Lord ROSSE and Mr. JOHNSTONE STONY .
" December 19 , 1848.-Drawing confirmed .
" Fig. H. 14 , 2098.- " Observed October 23 , 1848 , and sketch made .
" October 25 , 1848.-Sketch confirmed .
" August 16 , 1849.-Position of ring taken with an eye-piece furnished with a level and a position circle .
Inclination of ring to horizon 9 ? .
" Fig. 15 , H. 450.-- " 'February 20 , 1849.-Most astonishing .
The star perhaps a little nearer the np edge .
Drawing made ; breadth of ring less onf side .
" February 22 , 1849.-Observed again ; dark space to the right of star .
" January 16 , 1850.-Observed ; examined with the 700 and 900 eye-pieces ; both the dark and the bright rings seemed unequal in breadth ; the light appeared unsteady and flickering .
The night was rather foggy , but the sky black .
" Fig. 16 , H. 361.- " January 28 , 1849.-Orionis .
Dark space in the nebula containing nearest companion ; light nearly equable ; sketch made ; 3-feet telescope employed .
All the stars in the neighbourhood are nebulous , of these two a little sp , last seem to have dark spaces as in figure .
To the nf of this there is another smaller double star , suspected to have similar dark spaces to i Orionis .
" Februaty 16 , 1849.-Three-feet telescope confirmed observation of January 28 , 1849 .
C March 17 , 1849.-Large triple star to southl of nebula Orionis ; confirmed observation of opening in its atmosphere , also the openings at double star sp last .
" Fig. 17 , H. 2060.-"c Observed September 9 , 1849 .
Drawing commenced .
c " September 16 , 1849.-Drawing proceeded with ; examined also with 3-feet telescope to find if any evidence of change since drawing in Philosophical Transactions was taken ; none decisive .
" List of some remarkable Nebulce .
Spiral or curvilinear .
H. 142 , 262 , 327 , 695 , 749 , 910 , 1002 , 1211 , 1312 , 1368 , 1451 , 1570 , 1776 , 2172 .
With dark spaces .
264 , 368 , 491 , 514 , 692 , 731 , 788 , 857 , 887 , 1107 , 1225 , 1909 , 2241 .
Ray with split .
1041 , 1149 , 1357 .
Knotted nebule .
84 , 257 , 320 , 409 , 446 , 581 , 1274 , 1901 .
514

