V , " The Attraction of Ellipsoids considered generally .
" By MATTHEW COLLINS , Esq. , B.A. Communicated by S. HUNTER CHRISTIE , Esq. , M.A. , Sec. R.S. &amp;c. Received April 27 , 1854 .
The author commences by stating , that the attraction of an ellipsoid on a point on its surface or within it , in a direction perpendicular to one of its principal planes , is proportional to the distance of the attracted point from that plane .
This general proposition , which is an extension to ellipsoids of those already given for spheroids in Airy 's Tract " On the Figure of the Earth , " Prop. 8 and 10 , and in MacLaurin 's 4th Lemma , " De causa physica Fluxus et Refluxus Maris , " he demonstrates1 .
In the case when the attracted point is on the surface of the ellipsoid .
The demonstration of this is much like those given by the above .
named authors for the less general case of spheroids , and its final step is effected by Cor. 1 to Prop. 87 of the first book of the Principia .
2 .
When the attracted point is within the ellipsoid .
The demonstration in this case is effected by showing that an ellipsoidal shell , bounded by two similar and similarly placed ellipsoidal surfaces , exerts no attraction on a point situated anywhere within it or upon its interior surface .
The foregoing proposition shows that the attraction of an ellip .
sold on any point on its surface , or within it , can be got at once from the attraction of the same ellipsoid on a point placed at the extre mity of an axis , and the author proceeds to show how the latter attraction can be found and reduced to elliptic functions .
He then gives this proposition : Let a , b , c be the semiaxes of a homogeneous fluid ellipsoid , and A , B , C the forces acting on points at the extremities of a , b , c , caused partly by the ellipsoid 's own attractions on its parts , and partly by centrifugal forces of revolution about an axis ( 2c ) , or by the action of an extraneous force directed towards its centre , and varying as the distance from the centre , then the ellipsoid will preserve its form if Aa=Bb=Cc .
The last proposition stated in the paper is thus given : let R and r be the radii of two homogeneous concentric spheres ; A and a the attractions of each on a point on the surface of the other , then A^ a whatever be the law of attraction as a function of the diR-2 -r- , stance .
The demonstration given of the first of these two theorems is very concise , and of the second is direct and elementary .

