On the Morphology of the Cephalous Mollusca , as illustrated by the Anatomy of certain Heteropoda and Pteropoda collected during the Voyage of HiIM .
S , " Rattlesnake " in 1846-50 .
By THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. , Assistant Surgeon R.N. Received March 18 , -Read May 13 and 27 , 1852 .
" THE mere description of appearances even of the interior structure , still less of the exterior surface of an animal , without the deductions which they legitimately yield , is of comparatively small value to the philosophic naturalist ; for of what value are facts until they have been made subservient to establishing general conclusions and laws of correlation , by which the jtdgment may be safely guided in regard to future glimpses at new phenomena in nature* ?
" If I prefix this adrnirable exposition of the true aims of anatomical investigation to the present essay , it is that I may justify , by the highest authority , the course which I have taken in considering what of new facts it contains , as of subordinate importance to the reasonings which may be based upon those facts ; in making its scope more morphological than zoological .
The morphology of the Cephalous Mollusca is a subject which has been greatly neglected .
No SAVIGNY has determined the homologies of their different organs , and so furnished the only scientific basis for anatomical and zoological nomenclature .
It is not settled whether the back of a cuttle-fish answers to the dorsal or to the ventral surface of a Gasteropod .
It is not decided whether the arms and funnel of the one have or have not their homologues in the other .
The dorsal integument of a Doris and the cloak of a Whelk are both called " mantle , " without any evidence to show that they are really homologous .
Nor do very much more definite notions seem to have prevailed with regard to the archetypal molluscous form , and the mode in which ( if such an archetype exist ) it becomes modified in the different secondary types .
So far as our knowledge goes among other forms of animal life , we invariably find that , whatever the subsequent variations and aberrations , the prirnoldial embryonic form has its parts arranged symmetrically about a given axis .
No one imagines the Pleuronectidae belong to an asymmetrical type because they are asymmetrical in their adult shape , and yet there is no stronger evidence for the very common assertion that the typical form of the Mollusca is spilal or asymtmetrical- .
This unsatisfactory state of our knowledge appears to me to result from two causes ; -first , from the want of a clear and definite conception of the fundamental varieties of molluscous structure , and of the nature of the changes in the relations of parts which constitute those varieties ; and secondly , from the want of a due regard to the facts presented by the development of the different families , which must stand in the relation of cause to the varieties of form .
Now in order to the former end ( the obtaining of a definite conception of the varieties of molluscous form ) , I propose to set forth the structure of certain Heteropoda and Pteropoda ; pelagic animals so transparent , that a perfect knowledge of the arrangement of their parts may be arrived at by simple inspection , without so much as interrupting a beat of their heart .
Afterwards , I shall inquire how far the known laws of development account for these forms , and thence of what archetypal form they may be supposed to be modifications .
PART I. I. Anatomy of Firolotdes ( Plate II .
fig. 1 ) .
The species of Firola which I examined appears to be identical with the Firoldes Desmarestii of MM .
EYDoUX and SOULEYET* .
The animal may be described as a transparent cylinder about an inch long , and so generally colourless as to be hardly distinguishable in the water , except by the incessant flapping of its flattened ventral appendage ( pp ) .
The only parts which present any colour are the buccal mass , which is brownish ; the eyes , almost black , and the mass of the liver , which is brownish green ; further , the anus has a pinkish tint .
Attached by a narrow root or pediele to the ventral surface of the cylindrical body is the broad cheese-cutter-shaped foot , or as I propose to call it , propodiumn ( pp ) .
Its posterior edge is quite sharp , and carries no sucker-like expansion .
The anterior fifth , or thereabouts , of the animal is thinner than the rest of the body , and it narrows again towards its extremity , which is truncated , and forms a circular lip round the aperture of the mouth .
Just behind the narrowed fifth , and towards the dorsal surface , we observe the eyes , and immediately below , and as if proceeding from them , are the tentacles , which are short and conical .
The posterior extremity also is abruptly truncated ; its uppermost angle slightly projects , and viewed from above appears like a subspiral , richly ciliated band ( d ) .
Some little distance from this is the aperture of the anus ( a ) .
From the two inferior angles , two tubular processes pass in the male ( fig. 1 ) .
The right process ends in a globular body and is the penis ( p ) , while the left ( which I shall call the metapodium ) is long and somewhat pointed ( mt ) .
In the female there is only one process ( the metapodium ) ( fig. 2 , 3 mt ) answering to the left of the male , but a long cylindrical egg-tube frequently trails from the aperture of the oviduct ( fig. 2 ) .
Alimentary System.-This consists of , -1 , the buccal mass ; 2 , the oesophagus and stomach ; 3 , the intestine and its termination , the rectuml ; 4 , the liver ; and 5 , the salivary glands , which are very small and placed above the buccal mass , contrasting singularly with the very large salivary glands of Atlanta .
The oesophagus , stomach , and intestine form a straight tube running through the axis of the animal , and suspended by a ligament to the dorsal parietes ( fig. 1 ) ; having reached the " nucleus , " that is , the mass of the liver and ovary , the intestine bends up at a right angle , and so becomes the rectum , which terminates , as has been seen , upon the dorsal surface .
The Buccal Mass , or Tongue ( fig. 1 b).-This is an oval brownish body , placed below the commencement of the oesophagus , and forming the floor of the cavity of the mouth .
The following parts may be distinguished in this mass:i .
Two ovoid compressed masses of thick-walled clear cells , which somewhat resemble cartilage .
I shall call these the " lingual cartilages .
" 2 .
These give attachment to muscular fibres by their outer surface , and are enveloped in them .
One portion of these fibres is inserted anteriorly into the parietes of the body , and acts therefore as a protractor .
The rest are inserted into the edges of a thin plate , the c " tongue-plate , " which is closely applied to the whole of the upper and a part of the anterior lower surface of the cartilages , being as it were bent over their anterior extremities .
The applied surfaces of the plate and of the cartilages are perfectly smooth , so that the former can play readily over the latter , like a rope upon its pulley .
The upper surface of the tongue-plate carries in the middle a single row of tridentate teeth ; outside these is a row of conical spines and broad flat-edged plates , and most externally there are one or more rows of recurved hooks , which , when the organ is at rest , lie over and nearly meet one another in the middle line .
When this orgai is in action , it is commonly more or less protruded from the mouth by the protractor muscles ; the large lateral spines of the tongue are divaricated ( giving rise to that resemblance to the oral armature of Sagitta which has been remarked ) , so as to get all th eet to bear ; and then b the alternate action of the upper and lower sets of muscles inserted into the tongue-plate , a chain saw-like movement is communicated thereto , in consequence of which the teeth act as a rasp or saw upon any body with which they are brought in contact .
The buccal cartilages take no part in the movement of the tongue-plate , but simply act as its pulley .
The iEsophagus widens so gradually into the stomach , that no distinct line of demarcation can be drawn between the two , but the latter narrows suddenly into the intestine at a short distance in front of the C " nucleus .
" The Liver ( 1 ) is composed of several foliaceous masses containing many oil-globules ; it opens by a wide duct into the angle of junction of the intestine and rectum .
The Circulatory System ( figs. 1 , 2 , 3 , 6).-This consists of a very perfect heart with an aorta and its branches , but there is no trace of any venous system .
The heart lies anterior to and parallel with the rectum ; its axis therefore is nearly at right angles with that of the body .
It possesses two chambers , an auricle ( u ) and a ventricle ( v ) .
The auricle is large and somewhat elongated , extending above into the elevation which carries the subspiral ciliated band .
Its wall is formed by branched and interlacing muscular fibres , which are attached partly to the parietes , partly to the walls of a contractile sac ( c ) , to be mentioned presently .
The ventricle is almost globular , and has thicker walls , in which the separate inuscular fibres are not distinguishable .
The lips of the auriculo-ventricular aperture are prolonged on the ventricular side into two valvular folds .
Below , the ventricle terminates in a wide aorta , which immediately gives off a large branch backwards to the hepatic and generative organs ; then becoming much convoluted , it runs forwards along the intestine and stomach , passing between the latter and the pedal ganglia ( fig. 6 ) , and finally terminating , without much alteration in its dianeter , in the buccal mass .
As it passes over the pedal ganglia it gives off a considerable branch , " the pedal artery , " downwards to the foot ; and this pedal artery , just before it enters the foot , gives off a long and delicate " metapodal " branch ( w ' ) , which passes backwards , parallel to the aorta , and finally terminates in the metapodium , figs. 2 and 3 .
The mode of ending of the pedal artery is very remarkable , and physiologically speaking , almost unique ( fig. 6 ) .
Having entered the foot , it ends suddenly , without narrowing , in a truncated open extremity ( y ' ) .
In the living animal this open end possesses the power of contracting to a very great extent , so as almost to become closed ; and its condition must necessarily exercise a very considerable influence upon the direction and rapidity of the animal 's circulation .
Firoloides* then affords the most complete ocular demonstration of the truth of M.-MILNE EDWARDS'S views with regard to the nature of the circulation in the Mollusca , that can possibly be desired .
The perfect transparency of the creature allows the corpuscles of its blood to be seen floating in the visceral cavity between the intestine and the parietes , and drifting more or less rapidly backwards to the heart .
Having reached the wall of the auricle , they make their way through its meshes as they best may , sometimes getting entangled therein , if the force of the heart has become feeble .
Fromn the auricle they may be followed to the ventricle , and from the ventricle into the aorta , whence they pass , some forwards , to the buccal mass , in which the aorta ends , and through whose tissues it pours them ; some downwards , to pour out of the widely open end of the pedal artery , flooding the tissues of the propodium ; and a small proportion passes directly backwards to the visceral mass and to the metapodium .
Re , spiratory System.-So delicate a cteature would hardly seem to need any special system of this kind , and I found no trace of such organs in any , even the freshest and most uninjured specimens .
In the nearly allied species Firola Kerauzdrenii , however , the gills appear as a row of conical processes , extending along the posterior edge of the body behind the anus ; and in other species such processes develope accessorty folds , until in Carinaria we find filly-formed branchiae ( see EYDOUX and SOULEYET ) .
The ciliated subspiral band ( d ) , which will be found to have its homologue in Atlanta , is the only structure which appears to be capable of assisting the respiratory function ; but its small size must render it of very little importance .
Illantle .
-There is no distinct mantle in Firoloides Desmnarestii .
Carinaroides ( EYDOUX and SOULEYET ) evidently forms the transition from the Heteropods without a mantle to those with one .
It is in this genus placed at the lower posterior angle of the body , and carries a minute shell ; the branchira are developed between it and the anus .
In Carinaria there is a proportionably small mantle and shell , but it occupies a position more resembling that of ordinary Mollusks ; and in Atlanta , as will be seen , the relative proporltions of the mantle and body are pretty nearly those found in ordinary Gasteropods .
Contractile Sac or Urinary Organ ( c , figs. 2 , 3).-Between the rectum and the heart , and therefore bathed by the returning venous blood , there lies an elongated , flattened , delicate and transparent sac , whose walls are usually very much wrinkled and sacculated .
This sac opens by a rounded aperture in its upper part upon the right side of the animal , and is of course continually filled by the surrounding water .
As the sac is incessanl ntly ontracting , however , this water must be continually renewed , and hence the organ , simple as its structure appears and small as its size may be , is probably a very efficient depurating agent* .
Considerations to be stated hereafter , lead me to the belief that it is in fact the urinary organ , at once kidney and urinary bladder .
Reproductive System.-Firoloides is dioecious .
The male may be distinguished at once from the femiale , by the peculiar penis ( p ) attached to the right posterior inferior angle of the body ( fig. 4 ) .
It consists of two portions ; the larger is cylindrical , but enlarged at its extremity into a globular head , from one side of which a small pointed process projects .
The globular body contains many large cells as a sort of lining , and Nwithin these there is a cavity which communicates with the exterior through the pointed process .
A vast number of small oval fatty-looking particles may be made by pressure to pass out from the cavity .
The smaller portion is like a trifid leaf ; it is placed at the base of the former portion , and almost reminds one of the sculptor 's vine-leaf* .
The Testis is not very easily to be distinguished from the liver , behind which it is placed , until the contained spermatozoa are recognized .
It occupies about the posterior half of the nucleus .
There is hardly any proper vas deferens , but the testis opens by a very short canal at the base of the penis .
The Ovarium ( o ) occupies a position similar to that of the testis ( figs. 2 and 3 ) .
A wide oviduct arises from it about its centre , on the right side , and after making one bend passes downwards , and opens close to the base of the metapodium .
The ovarian ova were oval , about s-0dth of an inch in diameter , with a clear , delicate , germinal vesicle about -^odth of an inch in diameter , and a pale , circular , clear , but thick-walled vesicular germinal spot about lb-iodth of an inch in diameter .
In the oviduct the ova possessed either an entire granular yelk , in which I could not detect any germinal vesicle , or the yelk was broken up into two or more ( but not many ) spherical or subspherical masses , containing a clear vesicle , the embryo-cell , In some individuals a long tube ( figs. 2 and 5 ) , half as long as the body or more , depended from the orlifice of the oviduct .
It was colourless and transparent , and appeared as if articulated from its membrane being thrown into regular annular folds .
This egg-tube contained a double series of ova , in which the yelks had undergone division into 8 to 15 masses of very variable size .
The ova seemed to have become more divided the nearer they were to the distal extremity of the tube , but I could find none containing a distinct embryo .
The Nervous Systens ( figs. 6 and 7).-Two three-lobed ganglia , closely applied together by their inner edges ( fig. 7 ) , are placed between the eyes .
Each gives off several branches to the parietes and the following important trunks:1 .
A long branch forwards , which terminates in a suiall ganglion ( ) placed in the angle of union of the oesophagus with the buccal mass , and joined to its fellow by a very short commissure beneath the oesophagus .
From these " buccal ganglia " various small nerves are given off forwards to the buccal mass and parts about the mouth , and backwards , to the oesophagus .
2 .
A large optic nerve ( i ) .
3 .
A nerve to the tentacle .
4 .
A small nerve from the under surface , which terminates in the auditory sac ( j ) .
5 .
A large and long commissural branch which runs backwards and downwards past the stomach , to unite with the pedal ganglion of its side .
The Pedal Ganglia ( y ) are two large ovoid masses in contact by their inner edges .
They give off1 .
Two branches downwards to the propodium .
2 .
Two branches upwards to the dorsal parietes .
3 .
Two large branches , which run at first separately below the stomach , and then unite to form a single trunk .
This runs along the stomach and intestine , sometimes twisting round them and giving off branches to them and to the parietes ; and on the intestine it separates again into two chords , which join two small ganglia ( 3 ) placed between the aorta and the intestine ; one lies on the aorta , the other between this vessel and the intestine , and they are connected by a commnissure .
From the former of these ganglia , which is the smaller , two nerves pass upwards and join a flattish mass placed immediately beneath the 'subspiral ciliated band .
' There was an obscure appearance of branches radiating from this mass , and it is probably ganglionic .
Organs of Sense .
The Eyes ( fig. 8).-The eyes are very perfectly organized ; each eye is contained within a chamber , excavated in a papilla , whose convex wall forms a sort of supplementary cornea , answering to the cornea of Cephalopoda , or to the correspondinr , cutaneous cornea of the Gasteropoda .
Their eye-proper is suspended within this chamber by a number of irregular muscular bands , which stretch from it to the walls of the chamber , and perform the function of oculi-motores .
The optic nerve penetrates the inner wall of the chamber and enters the eye from that side .
The eye-proper is elongated and somewhat hour-glass-shaped , being contracted just behind the crystalline lens .
The constriction divides the eye into two portions , an internal and an external .
The latter is almost spherical , and is formed by the true cornea , which is much thicker in the middle than elsewhere , so as to present a meniscus section .
Behind , the cornea is continuous with the sclerotic coat , which is thick , and seems to be continuous with the neurilemrna of the optic nerve .
The crystalline lens is spherical , and is separated by a very small interval from the cornea , so that there is hardly any anterior chamber of the eye .
There is no iris , but the inner surface of the posterior chamber is coated by a layer of dark chocolatecoloured pigment* .
The Auditory Vesicles(j ) , fig. 7.-These lie behind and a little below the cephalic ganglia .
Each is a spherical vesicle , about o-1dth of an inch in diameter .
Its walls are irregularly thickened here and there , and it contains a spherical otolithe of about half its diameter .
I was unable to perceive any motion in the otolithe .
The auditory nerve is a delicate thread arising from the under surface of the supra-oesophageal ganglion , just in front of the commissural cord .
It appears to terminate suddenly on entering the vesicle .
This origin of the auditory nerves from the cephalic ganglia , when the pedal ganglia are well-marked and placed below the oesophagus , is a circumstance common to all the Heteropoda* , and , so far as I am aware , altogether peculiar to them among the Mollusca .
The only writers who appear to have been struck by it are MM .
FREY and LEUCKART : they say that the auditory organs are united with the supra-oesophageal ganglia " only when the lower oesophageal ganglia atre wanting ( except in Carinaria , in which the great length of the lateral commissures of the oesophageal ring appears to have made such a position necessary ) .
" ( Beitrage , p. 55 .
) I must confess I do not see the force of this explanation ; and the lower oesophageal ganglia are never " wanting , " though they may be united with the upper ones .
II .
Anatomy of Atlanta .
( Plate III .
) This is a very small and very beautiful pelagic mollusk , with a shell not more than one-fourth of an inch in diameter .
It appears to be identical with the Atlanta Lesuerii of EYDOUX and SOULEYET .
Its structure resembles that of Firoloides in all its essential points , and the transition between the latter and Atlanta is complete through such forms as Firola , Carinaroides and Carinaria .
The shell is flattened and spiral , none of the whorls projecting beyond the plane of the outermost .
The aperture is notched on its dorsal edge , and a deep thin crest surmounts the outer whorl , and is generally broken in several places .
The surface of the shell is marked by delicate transverse striations .
The outer fourth of the outer whorl of the shell is occupied by the mantle , the rest of the spire containing the viscera .
When protruded , the body of the animal is as large as the shell and appears trifid ; the large head forming the anterior division , the " fin " the middle , and the " tail , " with its operculum , the posterior division .
The head is large and subcylindrical .
Its anterior extremity is formed by a circular lip surrounding the mouth .
The eyes are placed far back , and the longish conical tentacles proceed from the anterior part of their base .
The fin or " propodium " ( pp ) is flattened and fan-shaped ; its edge is provided with many long and delicate hairs , and its surface is covered with little asperities .
Just below its point of attachment , the posterior edge of the propodium carries a cupshaped disc ( ms ) , also fringed with long hailrs .
This is commonly called the c " sucker , " and has no representative in Firolo'des .
It may be called the mesopodium .
The " tail " or metapodiumt ( mnt ) is subcylindrical at its base , but becomes flattened and acuminated inferiorly .
The elongated lanceolate transparent operculum is fixed upon its posterior surface .
The animal moves by the vigorous flapping of its fin .
When it withdraws within its shell the head is just retracted , then the fin is folded in , and finally , the tail with its operculum covers up the whole .
The niale is distinguished from the female by the presence of a peculiar leaf-like penis ( p ) , which is attached tupon the right side of the body just above where it divides into the three portions of the foot , fig. 1 .
The Alimentary Canal cornnmences above an oval buccal mass , widens gradually into the stomach , then narrows again and opens into a quadrangular sac , which coinmmunicates with the liver .
From the anterior and upper part of this sac the rectum is continued and runs forward to the upper and dorsal part of the branchial cavity , in which it terminates by a tubular anus .
The mechanism of the tongue exactly resembles that of Firoloides .
Two long cylindrical salivary glands ( f ) open into the anterior part of the oesophagus .
They are sialple caeca lined by a thick epithelium .
The Liver ( 1 , fig. 3 ) is a wide conical sac with sacculated and glandular walls ; its communication with the quadrangular dilatation of the intestine is so wide that it may almost be considered as a diverticulum thereof , and it extends back as far into the spire of the shell as any of the viscera .
The rectum is of a pinkish colour , and is richly ciliated internally .
Circulatory System ( figs. 2 , 3 , 4).-The heart resembles that of Firoloides , and consists of an auricle ( u ) and a ventricle ( v ) .
It lies parallel to the rectum , with the auricle forwards at the base of the mantle-cavity , and the animal is ther'efore prosobranchiate .
The aorta proceeds from the apex of the ventricle , and immediately after its origin divides into two branches , one of which runs backwards to the visceral mass , while the other passes forwards close beneath the stornach , until it terminates in the buccal mass .
After passing over the suboesophageal ganglia , it gives off a downward branch to the fin , but I did not observe the peculiar termination of this ar'tery which obtains in Firoloides ; this perhaps may be accounted for by the greater muscularity of the fin in Atlanta , rendering it less transparent .
The venous blood has no distinct channel , but returns to the heart by the cavity of the body .
The returning current of blood-corptscles is very obvious ; they seem to pass quite freely in all directions round the intestine , aorta and nervous centres , the general tendency being always backwards towards the heart .
Respiratory System.-Very distinct gills are figured by EYDOUX and SOULEYET in most Atlantee , but their presence in this species was decidedly exceptional , the majority of specimens presenting no trace of them .
Once I noticed a bundle of long branchial filaments depending from the wall of the mantle-chamber ; and in another case rudimentary and undeveloped short processes of the same kind were to be seen ; they contained canals , through which a small portion of the returning venous blood was diverted , fig. 4 .
The Mantle is very well developed ; a peculiar thickened and ciliated band crosses it transversely , and seems to be the homologue of the subspiral ciliated band in Firoloides ( d ) .
Contractile Sac.-This resembles the corresponding organ in Firoloides ; it lies between the rectum and the heart , and opens into the bottom of the chamber of the mantle by a well-defined oval aperture , figs. 3 and 4 c. Generative Organs.-The ovary or testis is an elongated mass corresponding to the liver , and occupying the inner and right half of the visceral mass , fig. 3 t. The Ovary consists entirely of a mass of ova in course of development , with their characteristic germinal vesicle and spot .
The oviduct commences at its anterior larger extremity ; it is very wide and passes forwards , forming many convolutions , and terminates in the mantle-cavity by the side of the anus .
The Testis contains a mass of small cells and spermatozoa in various stages of development .
The vas deferens leads from its anterior extremity , and before terminating in the cavity of the mantle , dilates , occasionally forming thus a dark spherical vesicula seminalis , s , fig. 3 .
There is a kind of penis attached to the right side of the neck of the animral just above the foot ( p , fig. 1 ) : it is composed of two portions arising from a cormmon base .
The anterior and inner is like a three-pointed leaf ; a caecal ciliated canal runs along its centre .
The posterior portion is a tubular cylindrical process , with a kind of ciliated cup at its extremity ( fig. 5 ) : a conical body projects into this below .
The tube is nearly filled with small oval granules .
The resemblance between this and the penis , which has been described in Firoloides , cannot be misunderstood , and the position of the organ in Atlanta corresponds with that in Firoloides , if we consider the left filamentous process in the latter to be the metapodium .
That it is so , is demonstrated not only by the distribution of the metapodal arteries , but by an examination of the intermediate genera above mentioned .
Nervous System ( figs. 2 and 6).-This consists of two trilobed supracesophageal ganglia ( fig. 6 ) , which correspond to those of Firoloides , and give off similar nerves ; but in addition their posterior lobes give off each a long nerve* , which runs back upon the stomach , and below its posterior narrowing , between this and the aorta , joins with its fellow in a small ganglion ( not figured by EYD0oUx and SOULEYET ) ; some branches pass from this to the viscera , and two or three run in the substance of the mantle to the " ciliated band , " fig. 4 .
The commissural cords which unite the supracesophageal with the suboesophageal or pedal ganglia , are at first double ( fig. 6 ) , but afterwards unite into one .
They are connected with the suboesophageal or pedal ganglia ( y ) , two large oval masses from which several branches are given to the different parts of the foot ; and each gives off one long cord which runs along the lower surface of the intestine , and probably joins the ganglion upon the aorta before mentioned .
The Eyes ( i , fig. 6 ) resemble those of Firoloides , except that their pigment is black .
The Auditory Vesicles are spherical and about x-oth of an inch in diameter .
Each contains a single strongly refracting globular otolithe of about 8-dth of an inch in diameter .
In some cases this had a slow movement of rotation upon its axis , fig. 6 , j. Now in regarding Firolo'des and Atlanta , whose structure has just been described , as illustrations of a typical form , the following circumstances appear to me to be of importance:1 .
The intestine is bent dorsad , or towards the side on which the heart is placed .
The visceral mass is situated below and behind the posterior portion of the alimentary canal ; it may be called a post-abdomen .
2 .
Atlanta is prosobranchiate ; FiroloMdes is neither opisthobranchiate nor prosobranchiate .
3 .
The foot consists of three parts , the propodium , mesopodium and metapodium , in Atlanta ; but of these the mesopodium disappears in Firoloides , and the metapodium becomes very rudimentary .
4 .
The auditory organs appear to be connected with the cephalic ganglia .
5 .
The animals are unisexual .
III .
Anatomy of Pteropoda .
( Plate IV .
) The variation of form undergone by the members of this group is perhaps greater than that which takes place in any other , except it may be the Nudibranchiata , and hence their structure is particularly instructive .
Three very distinct modifications of the type present themselves at first sight .
The first is characterized by the non-development of the mantle and the full development of the foot , ex. Pneumodermon , Clio , fig. 1 .
The second , by the great development of the mantle , by its cavity opening upon the ventral surface , and by the minuteness or absence of the imesial portion of the foot , ex. Cleodora , fig. 4 .
The third resembles the second , but the mantle-cavity is placed upon , or at any rate opens upon the dorsal surface , ex. Spirialis , Limacina .
1 .
It is very remarkable that CuvIER should not have recognized in the " espece de menton , " and the " deux petits levres* " of Pneumodermon , nor in the " deux tentacules triangulaires " of Cliot , the homologues of the foot of the Gasteropoda .
In fact it was on the strength of their having no such appendage that he founded his new order of Pteropoda+ , and yet the resemblance of the inter-alar appendages in these two genera ?
to the foot of Gasteropods is so striking as at once to point to their real nature .
W M6m .
sir le Pneumoderme , p. 7 .
e Mem. sir le Clio , p. 6 .
M Mem. sir le Clio , p. 9 ; sir l'Hyale et le Pneumoderme , p. 10 . ?
This is fully recognised by LEUCKART , " Ueber die Morphologie , " &amp;c. p. 149 .
In truth , the foot , though very small in these genera , is exceedingly well-marked , and shows a clear division into mesopodium and metapodium .
It may be a matter of doubt whether the propodiurn is developed or not , and this question can be settled by embryology alone ; but for the present , I think , it may be fairly presumed that it is represented by the tentaculigerous hood of Pneumodeerrnon and by the tentaculigerous lobes of Clio ; following in this case a very common tendency ( exemplified in all the Cephalopods and in many Gasteropods ) to become developed over and in front of the mouth * .
As CUVIER demonstrated , there is no " mantle " in Pneumodermon and Cliot ; the body of these mollusks answering precisely to that of a Firoloides .
The relation of the gill-laminae and of the small anomalous shell in Pneumodermon sufficiently corroborates CUVIER'S view .
Gills are never placed upon the outer surface of a mantle ; and if anything answers to such an organ it must be the small space covered by the rudimentary shell , so that the relations of the parts are , in fact , similar in Pneumodermon to what we find in Firola and Carinaroides .
Finally , new parts , the " aloe , " make their appearance in these genera and give its character to the order ( figs. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 7 , ep ) .
Considering the position and relation of these organs as distinct developments from the upper part of the sides of the foot , and the fact that their nerves arise , like those of the foot , from the pedal ganglia , I propose to consider them as parts of the foot and to call them the " epipodia .
" It has been long since shown by VAN BENEDEN and others that they have nothing to do with the respiratory function .
In this subtype the intestine opens on the iight ventral side of the neck , and dissection shows its filst bend to be ventral , that is , towards the side of the pedal ganglia .
2 .
The genus Psyche4 or Euribia offers a very interesting transition from the foregoing to the second subtype .
This genus is commonly said to have a cartilagino-us shell , but this so-called shell appears , upon careful examination , to be only the thickened integument of the body ; it is not secreted by a true mantle , like that of Cleodora , &amp;c. The notion of a shell has arisen seemingly from the fact that a sort of cleft exists anteriorly from which the loconlotive organs of the animal can be protruded and into which they can be retracted , but at the tnargin of this cleft the softer parts of the body are continuous with the harder , just as the body of a Polyzoon is connected with its cell .
In some individuals I have observed the posterior extremity of the body to be surrounded by two circlets of cilia* .
The head of the animral is provided with two very large tentaclest , whilch carry a large process upon the inner side of their base , and rudiments of eyes upon the outer .
Between the tentacles on the ventral side are two projecting lips with the aperture of the mouth between them , fig. 3 .
Behind the mouth there are two lobes , separated by a deep notch ; these are the two portions of the mesopodium which had begun to be separated in Clio .
Behind these , again , there is a single tongue-shaped lobe , the metapodium , which is continuous on each side with two elongated and expanded epipodia .
There are no gills , and the anus opens ventrally upon the left side .
Friom this genus , to that called Criseis by RANG , but which EYDOUx and SOULEYET unite with Cleodora , the transition is very easy , figs. 6 , 7 .
In these forms there is an elongated conical shell , narrow and straight , or wider and slightly curved at its extremity .
The body puts one in mind of that of a Cephalopod , being enveloped in a wide mantle , which is united to the body on the dorsal side only ( fig. 6 ) .
The wall of the mantle is very thick , so that it presents a wide aperture always open upon the ventral side .
Its free edge is , as it were , cut down upon its ( dorsal side , so that ventrally it is considerably longer .
On the right side this prolonged portion has a rectangular edge , but upon the left it forms a sort of ram's-horn process+ .
The lower part of the inner surface of the mantle is richly ciliated , and is raised into a number of transverse ridges , which must probably be considered to be rudimentary gills .
The head and wings are united with the part of the body covered by the mantle , by a narrow neck ; compared with Euribia , the change in form is such as would be produced by a lateral expansion of the foot .
Behind the mouth is the wide metapodium , and on each side of it are the broad epipodia continuous with the metapodium .
About midway between the mouth and their margin the epipodia carry a small triangular lobe ( ms ) , which evidently represents one-half of the mesopodium ; and nearly at the same level , on their anterior edges , they present two small curved and pointed processes , the representatives of the large tentacles of Euribia .
Two minute papillae , the rudiments of the eyes , are placed upon the dorsal surface just behind the anterior edge of the ale ( i ) .
The oesophagus takes a straight course backwards from the mouth , which contains a minute lingual prominence , and widens gradually into a pyriform muscular gizzard , which is provided with two strong curved and conical teeth .
The intestine passes from the narrow pvlorus , and preserving the same width throughout , bends downwards towards the ventral side , and ultimately terminates in the cavity of the mantle a little to the left of the mesial line , fig. 6 .
Just behind the pylorus a very long straight caecum is given off , and sometimes there is a short one in addition by the side of it .
The parietes of these sacs are glandular .
A long " columellar ' ' muscle attaches the animal near to the apex of its shell , and then passes down into the foot , where it spreads out .
The position of the heart varies retmarkably in this genus , and this variation is still more remarkable , if , with EYDOUX and SOULEYET , we consider it to be one with Cleodora .
In C. aciculata ( figs. 6 , 7 ) the mantle-cavity extends considerably beyond the transversely-barred portion of the mantle , and the base of the auricle abuts upon its lower posterior portion .
The apex of the heart points backwards and a little to the left side , and in M. MILNE-EDWARDS'S arrangement the animal would be prosobranchiate .
In C. virgu1ata ( E. and S. ) the base of the auricle lies behind the right posterior portion of the mantle-cavity , and the apex of the ventricle points directly to the left ; it is therefore neither prosobranchiate nor opisthobranchiate .
In Cleodora curvata , on the other hand , as will be seen immediately , the base of the auricle is posterior and the ventricle points forwards ; it is opisthobranchiate , figs. 4 and 5 .
In this one genuls , then , we have every transition from , the prosobranchiate to the opisthobranchiate type of organization .
Tile aorta is too delicate to be readily traced in C. virgulata and C. aciculata .
It may however be seen passing through the nervous ring and bifircating for the epipodia , fig. 7 w. There is no rudiment even of a venous system .
The Cleodora curvata ( figs. 4 and 5 ) ( one of the true Cleodorce as formerly defined ) forms a transition from the preceding species to Hyalcea .
It has the general organization of the former , with the flattened shell more or less fissured laterally , and the filiform appendages to the mantle , of the latter .
The ala-y expansion forms a more rounded disc than in C. aciculata and virgulata , the metapodium having become widened out and almost undistinguishable from the epipodia .
The triangular lobes , rudiments of the mesopodium , have disappeared .
The intestinal canal resembles that of the two former species ; its flexure is ventral , and the anus opens into the cavity of the mantle on that side .
The long caecum has orange-coloured glandular parietes .
The position of the heart has been described .
It is comparatively large , and the aorta may be readily traced from it , passing forwards over the stomach and through the nervous ring , and eventually dividing into two branches , one for each epipodium .
There is a more distinct rudiment of a venous system in this mollusk than in Firolo'ides or Atlanta .
A wide canal traverses the mantle towards its upper part ; it is crossed by various muscular bands .
Another distinct canal can be traced from the auricle towards the right side , skirting the lower border of the branchial chamber .
Whether it becomes continuons with the right extrenlity of the previous canal or not , I could not certainly determine .
The blood flows from both ends of the first-mentioned canal towards the auricle , but on the left side there does not appear to be so distinct a venous canal as on the right .
In all species of Cleodora there is an elongated sac , in its structure , contractions , and position relatively to the heart , exactly resembling that of the Heteropoda .
It communicates by a small aperture with the cavity of the mantle .
The nervous system in all these species consists of three ganglia on each side of the oesophagus .
Four of these form a mass , placed entirely below the oesophagus , and the other two , placed in contact with and immediately above them at the side of the oesophagus , air united above by a broad flattened supracesophageal commissure .
The upper ( cephalic ) ganglia give off two principal branches to the rudimentary eyes and tentacles .
The anterior pair of the lower mass ( the pedal ganglia ) give off branches to the epipodia and expansion of the foot generally ; posteriorly they carry two small auditory vesicles , with many otolithes .
The posterior ( parieto-splanchnic* ) ganglia give off their principal branches to the mantle .
The aorta passes between the pedal and parieto-splanchnic ganglia .
3 .
I have mentioned that a third subtype appears to be formed by Spirialis and Limacina , which are the only Pteropods with spiral shells .
Spirialis , again , is the only Pteropod with an operculum .
But a more important difference for my present purpose consists in the fact , that in these genera the mrantle-cavity ( and with it the anns ) opens on the dorsal side of the animal .
I have not myself been fortunate enough to obtain specirmens of these genera , and as the attention of those anatomists who have examined them does not appear to have been specially directed to this point , it is impossible to make out with certainty whether the first flexure of the intestine is also dorsal , or whether , as in all other Pteropods , it is ventral .
I cannot think that any real variation will be found to occur among closely allied forms , in a matter so fundamentally connected with their whole structure and mode of development ; and I would suggest that here also the bend of the intestine is truly ventral , but that by a continuation of the process by which the anus is thrown to the left side in Cleodora and to the right in Pneumodermon , it ( with the branchial cavity ) is thrown to the dorsal side in Limacina and Spirialis .
Such a change would be completely paralleled by the arrangement of the parts in the Ascidians , where the first bend of the intestine is dorsal ; but the cloaca , which corresponds to the mantle cavity , opens on the ventral side , carrying the anus with it ; and even in other Pteropoda we find changes in the arrangement of the mantle-chamber , which to a great extent modify , without however essentially altering , the normal arrangement , e. g. in Hyalcea and Cymbulia , where the posterior extremity of the mantle-chamber extends up to the dorsal surface .
Furthermore , the position of the heart , which remains on the ventral side in Spirialis ( E. and S. , plate 11 .
p. 13 , &amp;c. ) , greatly strengthens this view of the case .
Leaving this question in abeyance until further light is thrown upon it , we may , I think , enunciate the following propositions with regard to the Pteropoda corresponding to those in which the organization of the HIeteropoda was summed up:1 .
The intestine is bent towards the ventral side ; the visceral mass is placed above , and in front of the anus ; it may be called an abdomen .
2 .
Some Pteropoda are prosobranchiate , others intermediate , others opisthobranchiate .
3 .
The foot consists of four parts:-three , the propodium , mesopodium , and metapodium , such as are found in the Heteropoda ; and a fourth , the epipodium , not found in the Heteropoda .
All of these parts ( propodiun ?
) may be distinguished in Pneumodermron and Euribia , while all but the epipodiurn and metapodium have disappeared in Cleodora .
4 .
The auditory organs are connected with the pedal ganglia .
5 .
The Pteropoda are hermaphrodite- .
PART II .
The Heteropoda and Pteropoda , whose anatomy I have just endeavoured in a very general way to sketch and illustrate , may be regarded , in some respects , as opposite poles of the development of the archetype of the Cephalous Mollusca .
We have now to consider what that archetype is , and by what process it has become modified into the actual forms which have been described ; and with the solution of these questions is connected the meaning and justification of certain new ternms of which I have made use .
The most proper way of proceeding in this matter would of course be , to trace the development of the Heteropoda and Pteropoda .
Unfortunately , however , I have had no opportunity of doing this myself ; and so far as I am aware , there is no account of the embryogenesis of Mollusks belonging to either of these classes extantt .
* This , it will be observed , is here stated for the first time .
In the Heteropoda the nature of the generative system has been a matter of controversy , and I therefore gave an account of it at length in Firoloides and Atlanta .
The hermaphrodism of the Pteropoda , on the other hand , is well-known , and a description of their generative organs would only have led to details without any morphological bearing .
f Since the above paragraph was written , this hiatus has been filled , so far as the Pteropoda are concerned , by VOGT ( Bilder aus dem Thierleben , p. 289 ) and by JOHANNES MULLER ( Ueber die Entwickelungs-formen einiger niedern Thiere .
Monatsbericht d. k. Akad .
zu Berlin , October 1852 ) .
But in any natural group of animals the grand laws of development and growth are so uniform ( the uniformity in fact constituting the true bond of union of its members ) , that this want may be supplied by the very full information we possess with regard to other Mollusca .
If from these data certain general propositions can be established , it will , I think , be perfectly fair to make these propositions the basis whence deductively to explain and account foI facts of organizationl whose absolute genesis is not known .
The development of the Cephalopoda , Pulmnonata , Nudibranchiata , and Tectibranchiata , has been very carefully made out by KOLLIKER } , VAN BENEDEN and WINDISCHMANN , SCHMIDT , GEGENBAUR , SARS , NORDMANN , VOGT , REID , and others .
Frlom their observations the following generalizations may be very safely made .
1 .
''The development of a Mollusk commences on the haemal* side , and spreads round to the neural side , thus reversing the process in Articulata and Vertebrata .
2 .
In all Mollusks the axis of the body is at first straight , and its parts are arranged symmetrically with regard to a longitudinal vertical plane , just as in a vertebrate or an articulate embryo+ .
Plate V. fig. 1 .
3 .
The subsequent bent , spiral , or otherwise unsym metrical arrangement of the parts of the body in Mollusca , depends upon the development of one part at the expense of , or disproportionately to , another ; and this asymmetrical over-development never affects the 1head oi the foot of a Mollusk , but only a portion , or the whole of the haemal surface .
Plate V. figs. 2-8 .
4 .
It is to this portion , and its often friee projecting edges , that we can alone properly apply the term " mantle .
" When this outgrowth takes place before the anus , I propose to call it an abdomen ; when it takes place behind the anus , a post-abdomen .
5 .
All embryological evidence goes to show that the Cephialopoda and Pulmonata develope an abdomen .
The intestine becoming drawn into the abdominal sac becomes in consequence bent towards the neural side .
Plate V. figs. 2-5 .
6 .
On the other hland , all the evidence hitherto obtained with regard to the ( le* This very remarkable law has not , it appears to me , received its due importance at the hands of those distinguished anatomists , KOLLIKER ( for the Cephalopoda ) , VAN BENEDEN and WINDISCHMANN and GEGENBAUR ffor the Pulmonata ) , VOGT ( for the Nudibranchiata ) , and LEYDIG ( for the Pectinihranchiata ) , from whose observations I deduce it .
VOGT , however , observes that the order of appearance of organs in the Mollusca is the inverse of that in the Vertebrata ; and with regard to the point from whence development commences , he says , " Ce point est facile de trouver , il est situe en arriere des roves a pen pres sir la ligne de jonction entre la party cephalique et la party ventrale , et meme un peu en arriere de cet derniere sir la party abdominale meme , " p. 39 .
I use the terms hemal and neutral here to avoid the ambiguity of dorsal and ventral , which have opposite meanings when applied to the Vertebrata and the Invertebrata .
The haemal side is that upon which the vascular centre is developed , it is the dorsal side of Articulata , the ventral of Vertebrata .
The neural side is that upon which the nervous centres are developed ; it is the dorsal side of VAertebrata , the ventral of Invertebrata .
t " Instead of the radial type of developmenrt we meet quite unmistakeably with a lateral symmetrical type ; instead of the extended form of the body we find a short compressed body without repetition of segments or lateral appendages."-R .
LEUCKART , Morphol .
p. 125 .
velopment of the Nudibranchiata , Tectibranchiata and Pectinibranchiata , tends to the conclusion , that in them the visceral mass is thrust out behind the anus ; is in fact a post-abdomen* .
Plate V. figs. 6-8 .
A little consideration will show that the intestine drawn into this must become bent towards the hcemal side , as in fact it is in the embryos of all three groupst .
Upon embryological grounds , then , we should establish two great primtary modifications of the molluscous archetype ; the one characterized by the development of an abdomen , and a consequent neural flexure of the intestine ; the other marked by the development of a post-abdomen , and the consequent hcvmal flexure of the intestine .
But these modifications of anatomical structure exactly correspond with those which I have already demonstrated , upon anatomical grounds , to occur in the Pteropoda and Heteropoda ; and I trust I am not overstepping the bounds of legitimate analogy in assuming that the anatomical fact of a neural flexure indicates the embryological development of an abdomen ; that of a haemal flexure , the development of a post-abdomen ; and that therefore the Pteropoda fall into the same category with the Cephalopoda and Pulmonata ; the Heteropoda into that of the Pectinibranchiata , Tectibranchiata and Nudibranchiata .
It is remarkable , that , as regards the flexure of the intestine , similar contrasted modifications of the archetype take place in those animals which are the nearest allies of the Mollusca ; I mean the Ascidians and Polyzoa , the Molluscoides of MILNEEDWARDS .
In each of these groups the intestine is always bent upon itself ; but while in the Ascidian the bend is always hwemal , in the Polyzoon it is neural .
The latter fact is evident to any one who will examine a Polyzoon ; the former may seem at first sight to be contradicted by the circumstance , that the ganglion in the Ascidians , is placed between the cloacal and branchial apertures .
However , as I have endeavoured to show elsewhere+ , whatever be the position of the anus in the Ascidians , thie first bentd of the intestine is always haemal .
I have already referred to their probable analogy with Spirialis ' in this respect .
I-aving now determined the changes which take place in the axis of symmetry of the Mollusca , let us examine into those undergone by their principal external organs .
Whether we have to do with a Cephalopod or with an ordinary Mollusk , the first step in development is the separation of the blastoderm into a central elevation , the mantle , and certain lateral portions .
Now these portions become in the Gasteropoda , the head and foot ; in the Cephalopoda , the head and arms .
It follows therefore that the arms of the Cephalopod are homologous with the foot of the Gasteropod .
Again , in the Cephalopod an eminence becomes developed along two lines , which run on each side of the upper part of the " lateral expansions " and meet behind the head ; along the anterior portion of this line the eminence remrains as a slight ridge , which afterwards becomes one of the muscles of the funnel ; along the posterior portion of the line a considerable process is developed , and , uniting with its fellow , becomes the funnel .
In the Gasteropod , it is along the anterior halves of two corresponding lines that processes are developed , which become the ciliated alae or vela of the embryo .
The line in question I propose to call the epipodial line , and whatever is developed along that line I consider to be the epipodium , or a portion of it .
I do not venture upon such a refinement at present , but I think it probable , that as we have distinguished three portions in the foot , so it will be necessary to distinguish three pottions in the epipodium ; anteriol , middle and posterior .
For instance , in the Cephalopoda the posterior portion only is developed as the nnel ; in the Gasteropod larva the ciiated vela are the hehomologues of its anterior portion .
The palmated lobes of the Turbinide , the " lobes of the mantle " of Aplysar , appear to be developed from the whole epipodial line , while it is apparently the middle epipodium alone which is developed into the " ' wings9 of the Pteropoda .
All traces of the epipodiam appear to have vanished in the of the hPectinibranchiata* .
Of all tnollusks Adtlnta possesses the best developed foot-proper , and has its parts k LEUCKART and LovEN hNave enunciated very different views with regard to the homologies of the external organs of the Mollusca , to which it seems proper I should refer .
LEUCKART , for instance ( op .
cit. pp. 155-59 ) , considers that the anterior cephalic lobes of the embryo Cephalopod answer to the cephalic velum of Gasteropoda ; the posterior cephalic lobes to the alae of Pteropoda , while the funnel corresponds with the middle lobe of the foot .
The arms he considers to be peculiar structures , mere appendages to the cephalic lobes .
If the halves of the unnel , however , answer to the middle lobes of the foot , how is it that they unite upon the dorsal surface of the neck ?
If the anterior cephalic lobes answer to the vela of Gasteropoda , how is it that the latter disappear , and do not contribute to the formation of the head in Gasteropoda ?
Finally , it must be remembered that the arms of the Cephalapoda arise quite independently of the cephalic lobes , the first developed arms being those most distant from the head .
LEUCKART considers that he s the oral lobes ofat the pulmonate embryo are thhomologues of the ciliated vela of Gasteropoda .
But their position and number are against this view .
It seems to me that these oral lobes correspond with the cephalic lobes of the embryo Cephalopod , and it has been well shown by GEGENBATTR ( Op. cit. ) that the whole so-called " yelk-sac " of the Pulmonata is the true homologue of the vela in Pectinibranchiata ; the " ciliated bands " of VAN BENEDEN and WINDISCHMANN turn out to be Wolffian bodies , and to be internal , not external organs .
The common view , that the alte of the Pteropoda are the persistent vela of the embryo , is , so far as I am aware , unsupported by any evidence .
Embryology teaches us hitherto that the anterior part of the epipodium best specialized and separated .
In the special description of Atlanta names have been given to these parts , whose appropriateness is I hope obvious .
From this highly developed condition of the foot , to its diminished state in Glaucus and its total absence in Phyllirrhoe , we have every gradation .
The various portions are still to be distinguished in Pteroceras and the Strombidce , but lose their distinctness for the most part in other Gasteropoda .
However , the propodium is still marked off by a transverse fissure in Oliva and Ancillaria , and attains a great development in size ; a peculiarity which is still mnolre lremarlkable in Natica and Sigaretuts .
In both these genera it shows a tendency to invest the head .
In the Cephalopoda , the anterior arms , which must be considered as the propodium , fairly unite in front of the mouth , and it seems very possible that the cephalic hood of Gasteropteron , the " oral " tentacles of ziplysia , the hood of Tethys , the i lips " of some Pteropoda , and the hood of Pneumodermon may be the result of a similar change .
But all attempts to settle these points , save by development , must be more or less hypothetical* .
To this same test of development we must refer ever ything which claims to be called " mantle , " a word which has perhaps been more vaguely and loosely used than any other term in zoology .
Surely if a term is to have any value in either zoological or anatomical nomenclature it must be applied to only a defined thing .
The " mantles " of a Sepia , a Cleodora , or a Buccinum mayi be howmologous with one another , but they certainly are not so with what is called the " mantle " in Doris or any other Nudibrancht .
The simple fact that the cephalic tentacles arise in the midst of the is never permanently developed , and the position of the alse would lead to the belief that they correspond to its lateral portions ' .
So far as I can judge from the Latin table affixed to his Swedish essay on the development of the Acephala , LOVEN considers the arms of the Cephalopoda , the three pairs of cephalic tentacles of Clio , and the cephalic lobes of Tethys , to be homologous with the velum of the Gasteropod emnbryo , while the funnel of Cephalopoda and the alke of Pteropoda are homologous with the foot of Gasteropoda .
The considerations above cited appear to me to furnish a sufficient refutation of these views , which seem to be the offspring of an idea first propounded by their learned author in his " 1 Contributions to the Embryology of the Mollusks " ( OKEN'S Isis , 1842 ) , that the hood of Tethys and the cephalic processes of Tergipes are modifications of the cephalic vela of the embryo .
This ingenious hypothesis has not however been confirmed by ohservation so far as regards Tethys , and has been directly disproved with respect to Tergipes ( see SCHULZE , Ueber die Entwickelung d. Tergipes lacinulatus , WIEGMANN'S Arch. 1849 ) .
so-called " mantle " of the latter , is sufficient evidence to show that it cannot be homologous with the " mantle " of the former .
The so-called " margins of the cloak " in these genera appearl to me to have muchl more relation to the epipodium .
CUVIER allows a mantle to Doris , but denies it to Glaucus and Eolidia ; why , is not obvious .
LEUCKART defines a mantle to be " a scutellate ( schildfoirmig ) duplicature of the outer integument extending from the neck for a varying distance backwards .
" By this definition however the upper surface of the anterior division of a Bulla would be a " mantle , " which it is not , since the true mantle is obviously behind separated from this by a deep cleft , and how would the mantle of Firola or Carinaroides answer the definition ?
If the definition which I have given of the true " mantle " be correct , we must , I think , hesitate for the present in conferring that name upon the dorsal shell-bearing integument of Chiton .
May this not be homologous with the thick-edged dorsal .
surface of a Doris , in which the calcareous particles instead of being scattered are united into distinct plates ?
With regard to the shells , again , at the risk of being blamed for over-refinement , I would suggest , that it is , to say the least , an open question , whether the shell of Buccinum is ( as it is commonly supposed to be ) homnologous with that of Helix ; that of Sepia with that of Nautilus and Ammonites ; that of the emnbryo Aplysia with that of the adult Aplysia .
Grave differences of development occur in some if not in all of these casest .
is a difference between their " gills ' " and those of other Mollusks , which , as he justly observes , are never processes of the mantle , loc. cit. p. 130 .
The argument in the text tends to show , that in this respect there is in reality no difference between the " gills " of the Nudibranchiata and those of other Mollusks .
On other grounds however I am inclined to think that LEUCKKART'S distinction is a just one .
The organs called gills in the Nudibranchiata appear to me to be in all cases what they undoubtedly are in Eolis , viz. gastro-hepatic appendages .
Even in Doris , where they are gill-like , they are supplied with hepatic blood only .
See HANCOCK and EMBLETON'S admirable memoir " On the Anatomy of Doris , " Philosophical Transactions , 1852 .
* In D'ORBIGNY'S genus TVilliersia , allied to Doris , the calcareous tegumentary particles of the Dorida have united into a flat shell , ihidden in the mantle , " which is pierced by the apertures for the tentacles and gills .
The disposition of the calcareous particles in the Doridce is very regular , though it seems too much to assume with LovElN that they imitate a subspiral shell ( see LoV .
EN , OKEN'S Isis , 1842 ) .
t The memoir by Dr. GEGENBAUR , " Beitrage sir Entwickelungsgeschichte der Land Gasteropoden , " which has just appeared in SIEBOLD and KOLLIKER'S " Zeitschrift fiir Wissenschaftliche Zoologie , " furnishes very powerful support to the doubts above suggested , since it demonstrates that the shell of Clausilia , and gives good reason for believing that that of Helix , are developed within the substance of the mantle , following exactly the type of Limax .
" The land Gasteropoda are distinguished by the peculiar mode of development of their shell , if we may draw conclusions for the whole group from Helix and Clausilia .
The original deposition of the shell in the interior of the mantle ( as in the Loligidca among the Cephalopoda ) is as yet an isolated fact among the land Gasteropoda , of which we find no indication in other Gasteropods .
" There seems to be a very curious relation between the internal or external nature of a shell , the curvature of its whorls as regards a vertical plane , and the hwemal or dorsal flexure of the intestine .
Take , first , the case of a true external shell , as that of Nautilus or Argonauta , or Atlanta .
Here the direction From all that has been stated , I think that it is now possible to form a notion of the archetype of the Cephalous Mollusca , and I beg it to be understood that in using this term , I make no reference to any real or imaginary " ideas " upon which animal forms are modelled .
All that I mean is the conception of a form embodying the most general propositions that can be affirmed respecting the Cephalous Mollusca , standing in the same relation to them as the diagram to a geometrical theorem , and like it at once imaginary and true .
The archetype of the Cephalous Mollusca , then , it may be said , has a bilaterally symmetrical head and body .
The latter possesses on its neural surface a peculiar locomotive appendage , the foot ; which consists of three portions from before backwards , viz. the propodiurn , the mesopodium and the metapodium , and bears upon its lateral surface a peculiar expansion , the epipodium ( Plate V. fig. 1 ) .
The hvemal surface of the archetype may or may not secrete a shell upon its surface , or in its interior .
If we compare this unmodified form with the vertebrate or articulate archetype , we find that the three essentially correspond .
The appendicular system of the Vertebrata and Articu'lata is represented by the epipodiuin in the Cephalous Mollusca ( Plate V. figs. 9 , 10 , 11 ) .
Nevertheless the differences between the three archetypes are so sharp and marked , as to allow of no real transition between them .
In the Cephalous Mollusca it is the haemal si-de of the body which isfirst developed .
In the Articulata and Vertebrata it is the neural side which first makes its appearance .
The archetype of the Cephalous Mollusca further differs from that of the Vertebrata ( and resembles that of the Articulata ) , in the circumstance , that while in the latter the nervous and intestinal axes are parallel , in the former they decussate ; that is , the oesophagus opens on the neural side , passing between the great nervous commissures .
The nlolluscous archetype again differs from that of both Vertebrata and Articulata in its appendicular system ( ep ) , which , when it exists , never presents articulations nor anything that can be called an external or internal skeleton ( unless indeed the funnelcartilages of Cephalopoda be such ) , and which is generally altogether suppressed in the adult state , its place being supplied by the foot , which , as a development of the central neural region into a locomotive organ , is , so far as I am aware , paralleled throughout the Vertebrata and Articulata by nothing but the dorsal fin of a fish .
In the actual forms , the symmetry of the archetype is almost always disturbed by in which the shell is wound is the same as that in which the intestine is bent .
While the aperture of the shell therefore is " hzemad " in Atlanta with regard to the axis of columella , it is " neurad " in Nautilus and Argonauta .
With an internal shell the reverse appears to be the law .
Hence the curvature of the shell of Spirula is the opposite of that of the shell of Nautilus , and that of a pulmonated Gasteropod is the same as that of a Pectinibranch .
eiiii::i ii i : : c " ' i ' ' ; .
" : . ?
;i ii iii CI 2~~~~~~~ , O iiiii~~~~~~~~A 1 ' 11 " e. " " ... ... ... ... ..f ... ... j : .
' ' , n ?
;- ? ? ?
?~7 G-^-A4/ ... I ' : , * 'i ' ? ?
1Id K I.-T A~~~~~~~~~ 'I I'A AT^ ' T11rn 0 It ' &amp; A / / .
YrA/ I/ f * , At -9 iA Zf i ?
... ... ... .
, , .
, -- ... ... .4 ... ... ... ... ... ... .
' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ?
:o ' .
'4y'\ A 64 V / v iP .
S-a.ns -MD _CCCI_ .
%z.te II .
L ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... s C ... ... ... ... .
't --s,.:C c ' S it .
7 , " -V ; .B / ..75 , ~/ 7~ 1i " ~~~~~~i p~~~~~~~~~~~~ ?
: -'V : ?
H , 7 5-~~~~~~~i : V ~l:I8.:l d i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.N g. P.^f P-P 4Y.*t^ , , .
' ' .
',1 " ' ' ' .
it t ' ' ' ''T 'Z I i.i ' ' ju fl sH -/ A-A .
it , .
X itZ C N ... ... ... ... .i ... ... .0 B ~~~_r~ ~ .
' ?
: : , .
t. : , ~ ~ __~ Ici ? ? ?
?-I -7,4 : i'i , ' -.5* I , ci -i tVit '~~~~~~H 7 , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i:2~~~~~~~7 ' , - " ' P4 6 r , g : 6F J { 3 - .
lSZ ?
, SC .
am\ ? ? ?
?- ? ? ? ? ? .
i.8 , N- .
a. -"ig,1. .
A , x " " X~~~ ' .
' &gt; , .
' , X--d " .
S ) ~ . ! .
7w5 r:7 , ... ... .
r : I ' i. 1- .
I ?
:I " ' ... ' ... ... .:jl ... . . ?
... ... ... ... ... . ? ? ? ?
: ? ? ? ? ?
=- ?
:::.2I t ? ? ? ?
, , i.ro ? ?
" ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? .
, : ?
: : : ?
;-"m""--_:S^\ii ?
i : I:y ' ' ' ?
: ?
, )-P ?
* ... . .
: : ?
i-:2 - " s " ' " " " ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
I " " ii I : : : , : : e ' . ?
' : ?
r ?
, ? ? ?
?i ?
%Z , J- ? ? ? ?
; ;::::-:::1:I ?
i::I , .
; ,. .
, ... ... .
; ;,.__ : : : ? ? ?
?a::l : ? ? ? ?
; : " " ' " ?
; : " ?
t ' ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
" ?
- ?
" .f : ?
- : : I"l ; ;r:Jr , ? ? ?
?::I ' ; :::::::::- !
i.ii ; ; ; i i ; : ' ?
" : : : - ?
?:- ' ?
, iiiii8 a ; , - ?
n i : : : ' ' ? .
" r i ' ?
, , ? ? ?
?. .
` ... ? ? ?
?:s .
; ii : !
: : ?
II I.::gz ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
; ?. . ?
; . ?
i:::I ? ? ? ?
; 2 , :::::-:::1 . ?
rr " i ? ? ? ? ?
i::::::'-lll ? ? ? ?
... .
: .
: ; ?
: , j. .
: ? ? ? ?
4* 1 ... , , .
~ -". .
K -~~~~~~Q i , :i .
' ? . .
h~~~ ... . .
^ C3 ?
*-\ '\ .
, i\\ AN , ,.\ , ' ' ' , ' , I MS ^-'\ , , , , , , _ , ,,3 / r. .
: ?
: - ; , .
, .
: ... ... : .
: ... ... ... . .
I ' 7t , / t &amp; .
MD CC CCOLTTI .
T-t/ V. 1 .
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
::::::.::iii j:ir::rri~iiiiiiiiii i. .
, ... ... ... ... . .
~~. .
9323..~ii ... ; .
I : : " " " ` '"~~ ' ' ?
:1~1 ... ... ; ... ... ... ... ... ... . ?
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .~~ ?
~~-~~~~~-~~~~ ? ? ?
?~~ ?
~ ?
... ... ... ... ?
-..-- .
; ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:-..- ; i ; ... ... i~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... NI ... ... ... ... ... ... ... be~~~~~~p ? ? ? ?
" ' ' : : ?
1 f~ ~~ ~~074 N 3JP ri ' .
no ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ( I/ .\. .
N , ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... i : I_iii i. i\ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ~~~~~~~~~ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? .
, ... .
, ~ WT6"4.7 ' ! . .
P.P.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... ... ... ~~ ... ~~.~~. .
; i:`:l'~~~~:'~~i ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
i- ?
: ? ? ?
?c ? ? ? ?
... ... ... :i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... ... . .
I ' " " " '-'-~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~-. .
~~~ ~~ ... .
2 7 ' ... ... ... ~ ~ .
3 ' ... ... ... ... .
3 ' . ?
-0 ... .
-P-P 7pn &amp; .
6s1 .
Mvt 149242 ' i@4 ?
; / i ' ii 2 -No I ' c/ b / , $( ' } ... ... ... }/ r72* i yX ib , , X " ' ' ' ' ' ' ' X..-,.s ' ' i : : al 70 : 444~ 7 044 4 4444 44..7 " 444 I. , &gt; .T rm.t. .
deC '.T .
-T ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
; " " ~ 12 ?
9. . ? ? ?
?I ?
:'l " ... ... ... .
-o::-.,. .
f ... ... . . !
:i:i ... ... " " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ; -7 . ?
n. ?
... ... ... ..~~~~~~~~~~~ ... ... ... .
) } '4 , fr/ I / ?"..u .
'Ii ?
i B ' ?
r : : i ?
iiiiX 1 : : i6 4 ?
if tr ii j , : : , ij ir I i\i i iI i i , ?
ii'i e ?
, i9.g .
9 , - .
I ... ... , " .444.0(4 , ? ? ?
?/ r1 ?
9 4(4 ?
4(44 74 !
' ?
044i.4(4,. .
do ii 1 Ki " 4,4 Yo ?
i/ I ' -z ?
.-27.\."f ' , a2."n , t J..7 .
k'.o .
-PA/ z. 7h ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
: , .
, ,. .
_ .
: ... . .
I , _ .
, , , t r.8,9 D. the excessive development of a peculiar region of the haemal surface , into what has been termed the abdomen or post-abdomen , according as it is placed before or behind the anus .
The integument of this outgrowth , commonly modified in structure and having frequently a prolonged anterior or posterior margin , is the " mantle .
" It may or may not secrete a shell .
The development of an abdomen ( Plate V. figs. 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ) produces a corresponding neural flexure of the intestine , as in Cephalopoda , Pteropoda and Pulmonata ; that of a post-abdomen produces a hetmal flexure , as in Heteropoda , Pectinibranchiata , Tectibranchiata and Nudibranchiata ( Plate V. figs. 6 , 7 , 8 ) .
From combinations of these primary changes with subsequent greater or less developments of the various parts of the foot , all the varieties of form in the Cephalous Mollusca are produced* .
The formation of an abdomen with a peculiar development of the margins of the foot into elongated processes , and with cohesion of the posterior epipodial lobes , gives us the Cephalopodan subtype .
The formation of an abdomen with an excessive developaient of the epipodiumr , at the expense of the foot-proper , characterizes the Pteropoda .
The formation of an abdomen with a moderate development of the foot-proper , and hardly any of the epipodium , marks the Pulmonate subtype .
The H1eteropoda combine a great development of the foot-proper with the formation of a post-abdormen ( and only a transitory development of the epipodium ?
) .
The Pectinibranchiata seem to differ from them only in degree .
The development of a post-abdomen , coexistent with that of the epipodium , characterizes the Tectibranchiata .
The Nudibranchiata have a post-abdomten and an epipodium in their embryonic condition , but lose both ( epipodiutm ?
) tnmore or less completely as they attain maturity .
The foot-proper is very moderately developed , or even disappears ( Phyllirrhoe ) .
If the " mantle " is to have an analogue anywhere among the Articulata or Vertebrata , it may probably be with the carapace of the Crustacea , inasmuch as this is developed from a corresponding region and has similar functions , i. e. to protect the respiratory organs .
H-litherto what has been said has referred to the morphology of the external organs .
It remains to show on what plan the internal organs are arranged , and how the archetypal arrangement is modified among the different families .
To enter upon this subject fully would belong rather to a formal treatise upon the Mollusca .
For the present my object is merely to point out the fundamental unity which obtains among certain of the most important systems of organs , and to bring into prominence some facts in the anatomy of the Mollusca which have hithlerto been unknown or neglected .
With these views I propose to treat-1 , of the nervous system ; 2 , of the vascular system ; 3 , of certain portions of the alimentary system ; and 4 , of the renal system .
1 .
Nervous System.--The nervous system of every Mollusk consists of two great systems ; -A .
an excito-rmotor , or sensory and volitional system ; B. a visceral or sympathetic system .
The former consists of three pairs of primary ganglia , which always exist , and of a variable number of accessory local ganglia , which mayor may not exist* .
These three pairs of primary ganglia are the Cephalic , the Pedal , and the Parietosplanchnic .
I. The Cephalic Ganglia.-Tbhese are always either in apposition , or are united by a commissure above the oesophagus .
They give off either immediately or from the connecting commissure , the following nerves:1 .
Labial , to the lips and anterior parts of the head .
2 .
Olfactory , to the tentacles .
3 .
Optic .
4 .
Buccal , to the buccal mass , tongue , and jaws .
Accessory ganglia may be developed upon all these nerves .
They are found upon the labial nerves in Gasteropteron , three upon each side ( SOULEYET and BLANCHARD ) ; upon the olfactory nerves in many Nudibranchiata ( ALDEIR and HANCOCK , SOULEYET , &amp;c. ) ; upon the optic nerves in Cephalopoda and Heteropoda .
The presence of ganglia upon the buccal nerves is almost constant .
There seems to be only one inferior buccal ganglion in some Cephalopoda , while in others there are two , one above and one below .
In the Heteropoda , Pteropoda , and most Gasteropoda , there is a pair of ganglia placed laterally at the re-entering angle of the oesophagus and buccal mass .
In Patella , Haliotis , and Fissurella , I have found four , two in the latter position , and two anteriorly , just where the buccal nerves come off .
The buccal ganglia are always united by a conmmissure , so that when the cerebral ganglia are above the oesophagus , an anterior nervous ring is formed ; when they are at the side or below , as in Pteropoda , there is no anterior nervous ring .
II .
The Pedal Ganglia.--These are either in contact or are united by a coimmissure ; below the oesophagus they give off1 .
Auditory nerves .
2 .
Pedal nerves .
The auditory nerves are not commonly present , as their organs are generally sessile ; however , they exist in Cephalopoda , and in Strombus and Pteroceras .
As has been stated above , the Heteropoda make an extraordinary exception to the usual position of the auditory organs , since in them these nerves appear to be given off from the cephalic ganglia .
Considering , however , that the auditory nerves are invariably attached to the pedal ganglia in all other Mollusks , and that in Pteroceras and Strombus , genera which so nearly approach the Heteropoda , the auditory nerves are very long , I do not think it very hazardous to suppose , that in the Heteropoda the auditory nerves really proceed from the pedal ganglia , but have become united to the cephalic ganglia .
In any other case their position is quite exceptional , for the supracesophageal position of the auditory sacs in Nudibranchliatata merely arises from the pedal ganglia being thrust upwards , and united with the cephalic ganglia .
The accessory ganglia of the pedal ganglion appear to be only what may be called digital ganglia , developed to meet the wants of certain elongations or expansions of the foot .
Suchl are the ganglia at the bases of the arms of the Cephalopoda , and such appear to me to be the ganglia which supply the " labial " processes of Nautilus .
III .
Under the name of Parieto-splanchnic system of ganglia , I include the branchial and visceral ganglia of most authors , and the cervical , branchio-cardiac , and angeial ganglia of M. BLANCHARD .
This system consists of two primary ganglia , which are always to be found at the side of the oesophagus , connected with both the pedal and cephalic ganglia , and for which I reserve specially the term parieto-splanchnic ganglia ; from these nerves are given off1 .
Parietal , to the sides of the body , as distinct from the foot .
2 .
Columellar , to the shell-muscle or muscles , of which there are two in Octopus , Nautilus , and Cymbulia ; one in the shelled Gasteropoda .
3 .
Branchial , to the branchiae .
4 .
Angeial , to the heart and great vessels and generative organs .
Separate ganglia , answering to the three latter sets of nerves , may be found in the dibranchiate Cephalopoda ; to the two last in the Hleteropoda ; a single ganglion corresponding to all of them is found in Aplysia , Buccinum , Turbo , Paludina , &amp;c. Two such exist in Strombus and Pteroceras .
The angeial ganglia , wherever they exist separately , are placed above the aorta and united by a commissure .
The visceral or sympathetic nerves ramify extensively over the intestinal canal ( see HANCOCK and EMBLETON upon Doris ) .
They are connected anteriorly with the buccal ganglia , posteriorly with the parieto-splanchnic system .
To sum up , the typical number of ganglia in the Cephalous Mollusca is three pair , with which accessory ganglia and visceral ganglia may be connected in variable number .
The primary ganglia are united by commissures which form-1 , two greater nervous rings , the cephalo-pedal , connecting the cephalic and the pedal ganglia , and the cephalo-splanchnic , connecting the cephalic and parieto-splanchnic ganglia : these rings surround both the oesophagus and the aorta .
2 , Two lesser nervous rings , the cephalo-buccal , uniting the cephalic and buccal ganglia , and encircling the oesophagus , and the parieto-angeial uniting the parieto-splanchnic and angeial ganglia , and sometimes surrounding the aorta alone : this ring does not seem to be invariably present .
The homology of these ganglia with those of other animals does not , I think , present any very great difficulty .
It is needless to point out their identity with those of the Acephala Lamellibranchiata .
In the Articulata we have corresponding cerebral ganglia , while the suboesophageal ganglionic chain answers to the pedal and parieto-splanchnic ganglia united .
The nerves of the latter system appear in a distinct form as the transverse nerves of Insects .
It seems possible that the series of lateral ganglia in certain Annelida ( Amphinome ) may correspond with the parieto-splanchnic ganglia of Mollusks .
On the other hand , the stomato-gastric nerves with their ganglia in Articulata appear to correspond with the visceral nerves of Mollusca .
To what portions of the nervous system of the Vertebrata do these various ganglia answer ?
This is a problem which has been variously solved .
Unless , with Von BAER , we deny the homology of the centres of the nervous system in the Invertebrata with those of the Vertebrata , an argument whose worth can only be decided by a careful and laborious study of development , it would seem clear that the cerebral ganglia are homologous with the corpora striata and thalami of Vertebrata .
Their accessories , the buccal ganglia , answer to the trigeminal ganglia , and supply similar parts .
The cephalo-pedal and cephalo-splanchnic commissures correspond with the crura cerebri ; the pedal and parieto-splanchnic ganglia answering to the spinal cord and medulla oblongata .
The origin of the auditory nerves would then correspond with that of the seventh pair in Vertebrata , and the pedal nerves with the spinal nerves in function and position .
Again , if the parieto-splanchnic ganglia represent the medulla oblongata , their branches should , as I think they do , represent a pneumogastric nerve * .
Finally , the visceral nerves answer to the sympathetic .
Thie next question to be considered is , in what manner these typical ganglia are arranged and combined to form the almost infinite varieties in the actual nervous systems of the Cephalous Mollusca .
We find- .
1 .
The ganglia concentrated into a mass above the oesophagus , e. g. Doris , Pkzyllirrhoe , the majority of the Nudibranchiata .
2 .
The ganglia concentrated into a mass below the oesophagus , e. g. Pteropoda .
3 .
The ganglia concentrated around the oesophagus , some above and sore below , e. g. Buccinum , Helix , Onchidium , Cephalopoda .
4 .
The ganglia scattered and separated in pairs , e. g. Heteropoda , Tectibranchiata , and many Pectinibranchiata .
I Among these the parieto-splanchnic ganglia may either be united by apposition with the pedal ganglia , and with the cerebral by commissure , as occurs most commonly , e. g. Octopus , Nautilus , Haliotis ; or they may be united with the cerebral ganglia by apposition , and with the pedal by commissure , as in Strombus and Pteroceras .
Patella , Aplysia and Bullcea , form a gradual transition from one of these conditions to the other .
It will be seen at once from this enumeration that the concentration of the nervous ' system is by no means a test of high organization in the Mollusca , but rather the reverse .
A peculiarity of the Mollusks belonging to the second and third categories , viz. that their infracesophageal nervous mass is often perforated by the aorta , may be accounted for by the narrowness of the angeial ring , consequent upon the concentration of the elements of the parieto-splanchnic system , so that they unite directly above the aorta .
The singular variation in the arrangement of the different portions of the nervolus system , whereby the Mollusca as a class differ so widely from the other great classes of Vertebrata and Articulata , may , I think , find an explanation in the well-known law , that the constancy of a given arrangement of organs greatly depends upon the period at which they appear in embryonic life .
If certain organs are formed early , those which come later must obviously accommodate themselves to their predecessors ; and any variations which have taken place in the latter will perturb the normal disposition of the former .
Now in the Mollusca , as has been already stated , the neural side of the embryo is the last to be developed , and the nervous system does not make its appearance until the animal has taken its characteristic form .
Contrast this with the Vertebrata ; in them the nervous systemrn is the first to be developed , and it is , of consequence , the most fixed and unchanging feature in the whole of their organization .
On the other hand , the separation of the abdomen or post-abdomen from the body is one of the earliest facts in molluscous development , and it htas a corresponding influence over their whole organization .
The Archetypal Vascular Systemn and its modifications.-It may be questioned whether the " archetypal " heart has a single or a double auricle , but it is certain that in proportion as the symmetry of the branchial apparatus and of the whole body is preserved , we approach to the form of heart with a double auricle .
Thus we have a double auricle in Chiton and Haliotis , and a close approach to it in Tethys , Janus , and the Eolidce .
In the Cephalopoda the contraction of the branchio-cardiac veins has been observed by MILNE-EDwARDS and KOLLIKER , so that they may be considered to be auricles .
This is another curious illustration of the fact , that what is commonly considered the most concentrated and highest organization does not occurI in the reputed highest forms of Mollusca .
The heart lies above the intestine , and gives off the aorta anteriorly .
This runs forwards through the cephalo-pedal ring with thie oesophagus , and terminates eventually in the buccal mass .
Its main branches may be classed as visceral and pedal .
It is needless to enter here upon the beautifil discoveries of M. MILNE'-EDWARDS , with respect to the incompleteness of the circulation in the Mollusca .
The facts I have detailed add ocular proof to his already convincing demonstrations .
But it is to be observed , that in this respect , again , the " highest " Cephalopod , Octopus , possesses no " higher " organization than the Slug or Snail * ThIe consideration of the archetypal vascular system leads naturally to that of thhe value of the distinction made by M. MILNE-EDWARDS between opisthobranchiate and prosobranchiate Mollusca .
If my views be well-founded , it is clear that opisthobranchism is the typical condition of all Mollusks , and that prosobranchllism is one result of that asyrnmmetrical development which I have endeavoured to show to be the principal agent in modifying the form of these animals .
A little consideration will render it evident that neither the neural nor the hcemal flexure will have any effect in altering the position of the heart , so long as the flexure occurs behind it , while either flexure will produce prosobranchism , if it take place bejbfore the heart .
Prosobranchismin then indicates that a flexure has taken place , but not in what direction ; opisthobranchlism indicates only that no flexure has taken place in front of the heart .
As deriived characters , therefore , we may expect them to fail in certain cases ; and those Mollusks which I have chosen to illustrate this paper are instances of their failure .
Firolo'des is nearly opisthobranchiate , while Atlanta is very decidedly prosobranchiate ; and similar variations , as I have shown , occur among the Pteropoda .
The Archetypal Alimentary Canal consists of-1 , lips ; 2 , jaws ; 3 , buccal mass and tongue ; 4 , oesophbagus ; 5 , crop ; 6 , stomach or gizzard ; 7 , pyloric appendage ; 8 , intestine ; 9 , glandular appendages .
I wish here merely to draw attention to some peculiarities of the third and the seventh organs in this list , which have not , I think , been hitherto sufficiently noted .
Of the Structure of the Buccal mass and Tongue ( Plate V. figs. 12 , 13 , 14 , 15).Although the structure of the " tongue " of the Mollusca has been very elaborately investigated , its mechanism appears to me to have been hardly at all understood .
CUVIER , who first described this structure in Buccinum , thought that the buccal cartilages were the chief agents in moving the tongue .
He considered the 'tongueplate ' to be passive , and that its movements depended upon the protraction , retraction , divergence or approximation of the cartilagest .
This idea is still fturther carried out in the Leqons d'Anatomie Compar6e ( 2nd ed. t. v. p. 15-25 ) , where the cartilages are compared to rudimtentary jaws , though a little consideration would have shown the jaws to be represented by other organs in some of the instances quoted .
Subsequent writers either coincide in CUVIER'S view , or substitute for it some vague notion of licking or rasping ; so OSLER+ and TROSCHEL ? .
in his elaborate Monograph upon Chiton ( Malacozoologia Rossica ) , gives a very careful and detailed description of the buccal apparatus in that Mollusk , but equally fails in rendering its action clear .
He gives the name of tongue excelusively to a " bifid papillose organ , surrounded by circular folds , which consists mostly of vascular branches , between which masses of muscle are interwoven : " this is placed in the floor of the buccal cavity in front of , and below the buccal mass .
To what is commonly known as the tongue , he gives the name of c radula , " " reibplatte .
" The dentigerous plate is the " lamina radula ' , " its expanded portion the " orbis radulae .
" What I have called the buccal cartilages are his " folliculi motores .
" It is difficult to come at any clear understanding of MIDDENDORF ' S views , but so far as I can comprehend them , he appears to consider that the " lamina radulse " acts as a sort of elastic file pushed from behind by a special muscle , the " curvator radule , " and supported and steadied by the " folliculi inotores .
" VON SIEBOLD says* , " this organ ( the tongue ) , by its protrusion and retraction , is made use of by the Cephalophora as an ingestive apparatus .
" I-e says nothing about the buccal cartilages or the minute structure of the organ .
When I first examined this apparatus carefully six or seven years ago in Buccinum , I was convinced that CUVIER had mistaken its mode of operation , and fatrther observation has only strengthened that conviction .
I have already described the manner in which the apparatus may be seen working in Froloides and Atlanta , and I propose now to demonstrate that from the anatomnical arrangements the " tongue " has the same chain saw-like mode of operation throughout the Cephalopoda and Gasteropoda .
Perhaps Patella may be taken as the most convenient illustration , since the organ is here very large , and its parts are distinct and well-developed .
In Patella ( Plate V. figs , 12 , 13 ) it is an oblong mass , reddish , except where the tongue-plate shines with a somewhat greenish hue .
It is bifid posteriorly , and has a sulcus along two-thirds of its upper surface .
In this the tongue lies before it enters the cavity of the mouth .
The opening of the oesophagus corresponds with about the anterior fourth of the upper surface of the buccal mass .
To the postero-lateral angles of the mass its extrinsic protractor muscles are attached , two on each side .
They go to be inserted into the cephalic parietes , two in front of and above , and two behind the supraoesophageal ganglia .
The lower ones are united so as to form a broad muscular plate .
Two small muscular bands are also sent from the anterior angles of the buccal mass to the skin of the head .
When the muscular expansion formed by the lower protractors is removed , four or five muscular bands ( fig. 12 p ) are perceived inserted by their posterior extremities into the posterior and lower part of the " buccal cartilages , " and converging anteriorly to be inserted into the lower edge of an " elastic plate .
" From the same point of origin a thick bundle of reddish fibres passes up over the posterior extremity of the cartilages , and is inserted into the upper edge and sides of the " elastic plate .
" These may be called the intrinsic muscles ( fig. 13 p ) .
This elastic plate ( v ) is an elastic transparent membrane , broad posteriorly , and narrower anteriorly , so as to be somewhat heart-shaped .
By its superior surface it gives attachment to the ' dentigerous plate " ( lamina radule of MIDD .
) , on which the teeth are set ; inferiorly it is very smtooth , and plays over the equally smnooth pulley-like surface afforded by the larger buccal cartilages ( fig. 14 ) .
These are four in number , two large and two small accessory ones ( a ) .
The larger are elongated , white , cartilaginous-looking plates , excavated internally , and thick and convex behind ; their inner edges are kept together by strong transverse muscular fibres .
Their upper edges are in contact , form-ming the smooth surface mentioned above ; the smaller seem to be in a manner sesamoid cartilages ; they are connected anteriorly with the tongue-plate and posteriorly with muscular fibres , which are inserted into the larger cartilages .
It is clear that the action of the intrinsic muscular bands ( having the insertions described ) must be to cause the " elastic plate , " and with it the " dentigerous plate , " to traverse over the ends of the cartilages , just like a band over its pualley , the cartilages themselves being entirely passive in the matter .
The extrinsic bands , again , must serve to protract the whole mass and thrust it more or less firmnly against the object to be acted upon .
I have examnined Buccinum , Fissurella , Doris , Aplysia , Bullcea , Helix , Onchidium , Cyprcea , Pteroceras , Sigaretus and Vermetus , and in all I have foutnd a structure essentially similar to that here described ; the difference consisting in the greater or less length of the dentigerous plate , and the more or less complete development and isolation of the buccal cartilages .
These are the less distinct the more the tongue becomes a mere organ of deglutition .
Aplysia and Bullea , for instance , have the cartilages united and much softer than in most genera .
The structure of the Cephalopod tongue closely resembles that of Aplysia ; and it has the furthler peculiarity , that the portion of the floor of the buccal cavity in front of the tongue ( true tongue , of MIDDENDORF ) , which is plicated and distinct in most Gasteropodst , is in the Cephalopods raised up into a laminated caruncle ( or several ) larger than the tongue itself+ .
This pulley-like structure of the tongue appears to me to be very characteristic of * See also the description of the " tongue " in this genus by Messrs. HANCOCK and EMBLETON , loc. cit. p. 210 .
t OSLER , loc. cit. , p. 505 , describes a soft striated papilla arising from the floor of the mouth in front of the tongue in Patella , which , he says , " is probably the organ of taste .
" + See OWEN , Article ' Cephalopoda , ' Cyc .
Anat .
and Phys. Is the " horny striated substance " supporting the lingual teeth , " which appears to represent the body of an os hyoides " in Nautilus , the representative of the buccal cartilages ?
the portion of the mnolluscous type here considered* , and indeed to be peculiar to it .
Its occurrence in Chiton , therefore , would effectually determine the molluscous nature of that genus , even if there were no other grounds for the conclusion ; while the structure of the buccal armnature of Sagitta , which has been comrpared to the protruded tongue of a Heteropod , is in fact so totally different as at once to remove it from the Molluscat .
I may further remark , that the structure of the tongue in the Cephlalopoda adds one more link to the very strong chain of affinity between them and the ordinary Mollusca .
Of the Pyloric Sac.-This appears in various forms in a great number of the Mollusca , and seems to be always in special relation with the liver .
In Atlanta , it has been seen that its glandular parietes form the liver .
In the Cephalopoda the hepatic ducts enter its representative , the spiral sac of Octopoda , the elongated sac of Loligo .
The extreme length of the pyloric sac in Cleodora , and the occurrence of a second smaller one , appear to be leading the way to the ramnified prolongations of the intestinal canal found in the Eolidcc .
In Pteroceras a very remarkable struceture exists , which , so far as I am aware , has not yet been noticed + .
The existence of a " crystalline style " in connexion with the alimentary canal , has long been known in the Lamellibranchiata , but it has hitherto been supposed to be confined to them .
However , in Pteroceras , the pyloric sac contains a very complete style , Plate V. figs. 16 , 17 .
The stomach is a wide somewhat quadrangular cavity .
The oesophagus opens into its left anterior angle , while its pyloric orifice , very close to this , is at the right anterior angle .
Behind the pyloric orifice the rounded head of the crystalline style projects from the aperture of the pyloric sac , y , fig. 16 .
Two wide apertures communicate with the liver , and act as hepatic ducts .
Several considerable ridges of the gastric membrane rise from the floor of the stomach ; the principal one is next to the cardia , and there is a smaller between the cardia and pylorus .
The aperture of the pyloric sac is surrounded by an elevated circular ridge , which is slit towards the pylorus , the left edge of the slit overlapping the right .
The end of the style projecting from this orifice is opposed by one or two cartilaginous plates upon the principal elevation .
It is only the end of the style which is free ; for the rest of its lengthl ( 2 or 3 inches ) it lies in the pyloric sac ( ?
, fig. 17 ) , which runs back over the intestine , in the thickness of the left side of the mantle , and terminates by a rounded extremity .
It seems probable that the " crystalline style " is secreted by the pyloric sac , and that it acts as a gastric plate , assisting in the comminution of the food , although its transparent and delicate texture would not seem to fit it for the performance of any very important office of this kind .
Its resemblance in position and structure to the crystalline style of Solen is sufficiently remarkable .
Renal System.-It has been shown that in the Heteropoda and Pteropoda a " contractile sac " exists , placed so as to be bathed by the blood entering the auricle .
It has been hinted that this is a renal organ , and I now proceed to give the reasons for my belief that it is so .
A hollow sacculated organ , with yellowish glandular parietes , surrounds the base of the pulmonary sac in the Pulmonata , and opens by the side of the rectum .
The secretion of this organ has been shown to contain uric acid* .
No contractions have been observed in it .
In Fusus , Cyprwa and other Pectinibranchiata , an aperture , frequently seated upon a kind of papilla placed at the posterior and upper part of the branchial chamber , leads into a wide cavity , which is in relation above with the pericardium , and on the sides with the rectum and generative duct .
In its anteriot wall a yellow gland is fiequently attached , which consists of large vascular laminae .
I observed no contractions of either the sac or the yellow gland , but mry attention was not at the time particularly directed to this point .
Now I think that this sac , with its vascular gland , is exactly comparable in position to the " contractile sac " and to the renal organ of Pulmonata , while , on the other hand , it closely resembles the serous chamnbers with their contained venous appendages , which open into the mantle-chamber of the Cephalopoda .
The venous appendages of the Cephalopoda , however , have been demonstrated to be renal organs by containing secreted uric acid , and they possess the faculty of rhythmical contractiont .
The chambers of the venous appendages , then , in the Cephalopoda answer to a " contractile sac , " in which the secreting power and the contractile faculty have become restricted and localized in a portion of the organ* .
I have here touched mainly upon the less commonly understood portions of the internal anatomy of the Cephalopoda and Gasteropoda , but they clearly tend to strengthen the conclusion to be derived from embryology and the more generally known anatomical facts , viz. that the Cephalopoda and Gasteropoda are morphologically one , are modifications of the same archetypal molluscous form .
On the other hand , I have made no reference to the Acephala , nor is it my intention to go into that part of the subject ; but , for the sake of the zoological bearings of the question , I may shortly express my belief , that of the two families of the Acephala , there is abundant evidence , both anatomical and embryological , to show that the one , the Lamellibranchiatat , is modelled upon the archetype of the Cephalous Mollusca .
Such evidence as we possess with regard to the Brachiopoda , however , is purely anatomical , and ( though I am aware that a great weight of authority lies upon the other side ) yet Mr. HANCOCK'S opinion , that they are rather to be considered as allied to the Polyzoa than to the Cephalous Mollusca , seems to be quite as plausible as the more general notion .
Should this highly ingenious suggestion be found by embryology to be correct , the Brachiopoda will have the same relation to the Polyzoa as the simple Ascidians to the compound Ascidians , and will form a parallel group to the former in M. MILNEEDwARDs 's section of " Molluscoides .
" In conclusion , I would observe , that the archletypal Cephalous Mollusk ( as thus defined ) is , in all its modifications , sharply separated from othter archetypes , whatever apparent resermblances or transitions may exist .
In all cases these will , I believe , on close examination , be found to be mere cases of analogy , not of affinity .
As CUVIER long ago remarked of the Cephalopoda and Fishes , so we may say of the Cephalous Mollusca in general and other types:- " Whatever BONNET and his followei 's may say , Nature here leaves a manifest hiatus among her productions2 " For instance , great as are the apparent resemblances between a Lamellibranch and an Ascidian , they all vanish upon closer examination+ .
Neither in its anatomical nor in its embryo* A renal organ of similar character has been long since demonstrated in the Lamellibranchiata .
( See VoN SIEBOLD , Vergl .
Anat .
) t The Lamellibranchiata are as truly cephalous as many Pteropoda , and the possession of a distinct head is so much a question of degree as to be a very unfit classificatory character .
+I beg that I may not be misunderstood here .
While I consider that there is no transition between the Cephalous Mollusca as such , and the Ascidians or Polyzoa , I also fully believe ( and so far as the Ascidians are concerned I have endeavoured to demonstrate , Report on the Structure of the Ascidians , already referred to ) that the archetype of the Cephalous Mollusca , that of the Ascidians and that of the Polyzoa , are all referable to a common archetype , the archetype of the Mollusca generally .
It is one thing to believe that certain natural logical relations does the branchial sac of an Ascidian correspond with the mantlecavity of a Lamellibranch .
The nervous system is totally different .
The three pairs of ganglia , which exist in all Lamellibranchiata ( even the apodal genera ) , are replaced by one in the Ascidians , which is not homologous ( as is commonly asserted ) with the branchial ganglion , or intersiphonic ganglion of Lamellibranchiata , but with their pedal ganglion .
The organization of the circulatory system is wholly different .
The Ascidians have a cellulose test , not a calcareous shell .
The larval conditions are totally distinct .
If , however , all Cephalous Mollusks , i. e. all Cephalopoda , Gasteropoda and Lamellibranchiata , be only modifications by excess or defect of the parts of a definite archetype , then , I think , it follows as a necessary consequence , that no anamorphism takes place in this group .
There is no progression from a lower to a higher type , but merely a more or less complete evolution of one type .
It may indeed be a matter of very grave consideration whether true anamorphosis ever occurs in the whole animal kingdom .
If it do , then the doctrine that every natural group is organized after a definite archetype , a doctrine which seems to me as important for zoology as the theory of definite proportions for chemistry , must be given up .
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES .
Anus Bucc Conti Subs ] Epip( Saliv Tent ; Heac Eye ( Audi Stom Pylor Livei Mani .
MetE .
Mes( Bran In all the Plates the same letters refer to the same parts .
o. Ovary .
al mass .
p. Penis .
ractile sac .
pp. Propodium .
piral ciliated band .
q. Abdomen .
odium .
r. Post-abdomen .
ary gland .
s. Vesicula seminalis .
acles .
t. Testis .
1 .
u. Auricle .
or optic nerve .
u ' .
Venous canal .
tory vesicle or nerve .
v. Ventricle .
iach .
w. Aorta .
ric caecum .
w ' .
Recurrent artery .
x. Cerebral ganglia .
the .
y. Pedal ganglia .
ipodium .
y ' .
Pedal artery .
)podium .
z. Parieto-splanchnic ganglia .
ichiee .
groups have one definite archetype or primitive form upon which they are all modelled ; another , to imagine that there exist any transitional forms between them .
Every one knows that Birds and Fishes are modifications of the one vertebrate archetype ; no one believes that there are any transitional forms between Birds and Fishes .
K2 a. b. C. d. ep .
f. h. i. J. k. k ' .
1 .
m. mt .
ms .
n. Buccal ganglia or nerves .
y. Crystalline style .
A. Its sheath. .
Accessory cartilages of the buccal mass .
d. Tongue plate..Elastic plate .
^ .
Muscles .
PLATE II .
Fig. Fig. Fig. Fig. Fig. Fig. Fig. Fig. 1 .
Firoloides Desmarestii .
( Magnified .
) Male .
2 .
Firoloides Desmarestii .
Female .
Posterior extremity from the left side .
3 .
Firoloides Desmarestii .
Female .
Posterior extremity from the right side .
4 .
Penis of the male .
5 .
Egg-tube .
6 .
Nervous system , with the termination of the pedal artery at y ' .
7 .
Cerebral ganglia from below .
8 .
Right eye and tentacle .
PLATE III .
Atlanta Lesuerii .
Fig. 1 .
Animal in its shell ( much magnified ) , from the right side .
Male .
Fig. 2 .
The same from the left side , to show the arrangement of the nervous and vascular systems .
Fig. 3 .
Post-abdomen , without the shell ; more enlarged , from the right side .
Fig. 4 .
Portion of the mantle-cavity and post-abdomen from the left side , to show the arrangement of the heart and branchiae .
Fig. 5 .
Portion of the penis .
Fig. 6 .
Cerebral ganglia , from the left side .
PLATE IV .
Fig. 1 .
Pneumodermon ?
A young specimen , to show the form of the foot and its irelations .
Fig. 2 .
Euribia Gaudichaudii ( EYDOUX and SOULEYET ) , from behind , placed , not as it swims , but so as to leave its parts in their normal position .
This has been done with each of the figures in this Plate , except it be otherwise expressly mentioned .
Fig. 3 .
The head and foot of Euribia , seen from below .
Fig. 4 .
Cleodora curvata ( EYDOUX and SOULEYET ) , from the neural side .
Fig. 5 .
The same , from the haemal side .
Fig. 6 .
Cleodora aciculata , from the right side , without the shell .
Fig. 7 .
The same .
The head and alee from the neural side .
The first eleven figures are to be regarded as mere diagrams , illustrative of the archetypal form of the Mollusca and its more important modifications .
The shaded portion is the hemnal surface , the unshaded the neural surface .
Figs. 2 and 3 are supposed to represent the developnment of an abdomen , and the changes of position thence undergone by the intestine and heart .
Fig. 4 is a diagram of a Pteropod , corresponding with fig. 2 .
Fig. 5 is a diagram of a Cephalopod , corresponding with fig. 3 ; but in these , changes in the different parts of the foot have been also effected .
Figs. 6 and 7 , similarly are supposed to represent the development of a post-abdomen .
Fig. 8 .
A diagram of Aplysia , corresponding with fig. 6 .
Atlanta corresponds exactly with fig. 7 .
Figs. 9 , 10 , 11 , are imrnaginary sections of a Mollusk , a Fish and an articulate animal , respectively , to show the relations of the nervous , alimentary , vascular and appendicular systems .
The Mollusk and articulate animal are in their normal position ; the fish is turned upon its back to correspond with them .
* The pectoral fins .
The legs of the articulate animal .
Figs. 12-15 .
The buccal apparatus or tongue of Patella .
Fig. 12 .
FroIn the right side .
Fig. 13 .
From above .
Fig. 14 .
The supporting cartilages .
Fig. 15 .
The elastic plate which plays over them .
Figs16 , 17 .
The stomach of Pteroceras .

