XIV .
" On some new derivatives of Chloroform .
" By A. W. WILLIAMSON , Ph. D. , &amp;c. Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received June 15 , 1854 .
According to the results of recent researches in the constitution of salts and the methods thence introduced of explaining chemical reactions , it is equally correct to represent such a reaction as that of hydrochloric acid on hydrate of potash , as consisting in an exchange of hydrogen of the one for potassium of the other , or of chlorine in one for peroxide of hydrogen in the other .
In Mr. Kay 's researches as described in the following brief outline , this notion has obtained very striking illustration ; for he has obtained a peculiar body in which the chlorine of chloroform is replaced by peroxide of ethyle by the action of chloroform on three atoms of ethylate of sodium , which product may be equally well conceived to be a body in which the hydrogen of three atoms of alcohol is replaced by the tribasic radical of chloroform .
According to the older theories of the capacity of saturation of salts , this compound would contain a tribasic modification of formic acid , for it has the same relation to formic ether as a so-called tribasic phosphate has to a monobasic one .
To one equivalent of chloroform were added , by degrees , three equivalents of dry and powdered ethylate of soda , a violent action taking place with the evolution of much heat ; the liquid was entirely distilled from the residue ( chloride of sodium ) by means of an oilbath , and then subjected to a series of fractional distillations , which yielded a small distillate between 50 ?
and 60 ?
C. , smelling strongly of vinous ether , a large distillate ( about three-fourths of the whole ) between 77 ?
and 78 ?
C. , which was chiefly alcohol , and another small distillate ( about one-sixth ) between 145 ?
and 145 3 ?
C. The distillates obtained by the above process , except that of alcohol , being small , the following modification was adopted .
Sodium was dissolved in absolute alcohol until the action became feeble , chloroform was then added , care being taken to keep the liquid alkaline ; more sodium was then added , and the process repeated several times , until the chloride of sodium precipitated became very bulky .
The liquid was then distilled off and chloroform added to the residue , and also distilled off .
To this first distillate sodium was again added , and treated with the last distillate instead of pure chloroform , the same precautions being used as before .
This method gave similar distillates , and in about the same proportion as that first used ; the highest distillate however boiled constantly at 146 ?
instead of at 145'3 ?
C. This compound which boils at 145 ?
to 146 ?
C. is a colourless limpid liquid , only slightly soluble in water , having a strongly aromatic odour , readily inflammable and burning without much smokle ; its specific gravity is '8964 ; it remained liquid at 00 F. Several analyses made of this body agree in giving to it the formula C7 H6,03 , which would also be the empirical formula of a tribasic formic-ether ; the density of its vapour also corresponds very closely with the same formula .
Pentachloride of phosphorus added to a portion of the compound produced a heavy liquid having the odour of chloroform .
A small quantity of the body was dissolved in alcohol , distilled upwards for two or three hours with solid hydrate of potash and then distilled off ; the residue was next dissolved in water and made exactly neutral by hydrochloric acid , filtered to remove the turbidity , and then a few drops of chloride of mercury added ; after a little time and by the application of heat , a very slight precipitate of subchloride of mercury was formed ; .
also the colour of sesquichloride of iron was a little darkened by another portion of the solution , thus showing that the action of potash on the compound had produced formic acid , but in very small quantity .
An equivalent of dry hydrochloric acid was passed into a portion of the compound ; the gas was wholly absorbed , a considerable amount of heat being evolved and the liquid assuming a brownish colour ; the liquid after the absorption of the gas still remained perfectly neutral .
It was next distilled with the thermometer : it began to boil at 20 ?
C. and rose gradually to 100 ?
; it was collected in three portions , the first ( about one-sixth of the whole ) passing over between 20 ?
and 50 ?
, the second ( about one-third ) between 50 ?
and 68 ?
, the third ( one-half ) between 68 ?
and 100 ? .
I was unable to carry these distillations further in consequence of the small quantity of the liquid available .
Two equivalents of dry hydrochloric acid were passed into a larger quantity of the compound ; towards the close the gas was absorbed less freely , a portion passing through ; after this treatment , the liquid fumed and was highly acid ; it was distilled upwards for some time by which a portion of free hydrochloric acid was expelled , and then distilled fractionally ; about one-third came over between 56 ?
and 60 ?
C. , one-fourth between 60 ?
and 70 ?
, one-sixth between 70 ?
and 80 ?
, and the remainder ( about one-fourth ) between 80 ?
and 88 ? .
To the lowest distillate about an equal bulk of water was added ; the substance floated on the surface and seemed to be little , if at all dissolved by the water ; a sufficient quantity of carbonate of soda was next added to neutralize the free acid , and the liquid pipetted from the water , it was then distilled upwards for some time with dry chloride of calcium , and afterwards distilled off ; this distillate was found to boil constantly at 55'5 ?
C. An analysis made of this body agrees closely with the formula C6 H14 05 .
The distillate which came over between 60 ?
and 70 ?
after being treated in the same way as the lower distillate , also yielded a liquid which boiled at 56 ?
C. As both methods hitherto used for the purpose of obtaining the body C7 H16 03 afforded only small quantities , the treatment of chloroform with an alcoholic solution of potash was tried ; for this purpose 12 oz. of solid hydrate of potash and 20 oz. of quicklime were added to about three pints of absolute alcohol , and the alcohol distilled upwards for six or seven hours ; 6 oz. of chloroform were then added gradually , the upward distillation being continued about two hours longer ; the liquid was next distilled off to dryness by means of an oil-bath , and submitted to fractional distillation ; by this method a much larger quantity of the compound was obtained than by the former processes ; it was found to boil constantly at 146 ?
C. , and its analysis agreed almost exactly with the formula .
In this process the lowest distillate had the same smell of vinous ether which was before observed in the other methods .
An attempt was made to produce the intermediate compounds CH Cl , , AeO , and CH C1 , 2AeO , by adding dry and powdered ethylate of soda very gradually to a large excess of chloroform ; but the liquid after being separated from the precipitate , was found , on distilling fractionally , to resolve itself into chloroform , alcohol , and the body ( C7 H16 O0 ) already obtained , the presence of no other substance being observable .
With a view of obtaining a compound analogous to the body C7 H16 0s , in which amyle should be introduced instead of ethyle , dry amylate of soda was prepared , to three equivalents of which one equivalent of chloroform was added , the liquid separated from the precipitate and then distilled fractionally ; a large proportion of fusiloil was obtained , together with a small proportion of a body which boiled at a high temperature , -from 260 ?
to 290 ?
C. , but chiefly from 260 ?
to 270 ?
; the purification of this substance was not carried further , as at each distillation a considerable portion was decomposed even in an atmosphere of hydrogen , the small quantity of the liquid available precluding any more attempts at distillation ,

