172 Mr. G. J. Burch .
On Time-Relations [ Nov. 19 , the wires , and an error of hundreds per cent , in the case of some of them .
Using the formula ( 3 ) which we have arrived at for determining the emissivity of platinum wires of different diameters at 300 ' C. , it follows that to maintain a platinum wire 075 mil in diameter at 300 ' C. would require a current density of 331,000 amperes per square inch , and , if the emissivity of a copper wire of the same diameter and at the same temperature may be taken as being the same , it follows that to maintain a copper wire 075 mil in diameter at 300 ' C. would require a current density of 790,000 amperes per square inch .
II .
" On the Time-Relations of the Excursions of the Capillary Electrometer , with a Description of the Method of using it for the Investigation of Electrical Changes of Short Duration .
" By George J. Burch , B.A. Oxon .
Communicated by Professor Bartholomew Price , F.R.S. Received September 3 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is in continuation of the author 's preliminary note " On a Method of determining the Value of Rapid Variations of a Difference of Potential by means of the Capillary Electrometer , " and describes a further simplification of the method then brought forward , consequent on a change in the mode of producing the photographic record of an excursion .
The rapidity of the movement of the meniscus was found to be affected by ( 1 ) the degree of concentration of the acid , ( 2 ) the length of the capillary beyond the end of the mercury column , ( 3 ) the shape of the tube where it tapers to form the capillary , ( 4 ) the shape of the orifice .
These things might be taken as indicating the action of both mechanical friction and electrical resistance in determining the rate of movement .
As was announced in the preliminary note , under ordinary circumstances the instrument is perfectly dead-beat ; the meniscus commences to move the instant a difference of potential is communicated to the instrument , and stops directly it is withdrawn .
The conditions under which overshooting may occur , and the possible extent of it , are discussed .
It was found that , in general , the time-relations of the movement might be expressed by the equation y = ae~ct , in which y is the distance of any point upon the curve from its asymptote .
The tabular logarithms of a series of ordinates corre 1891 .
] of the Excursions of the Capillary , SfC .
173 sponding to equal time-intervals are in arithmetical progression , and the sub-tangent to the curve is of constant length .
It was also shown in the preliminary note that the tangent to a point on the curve produced by an irregular change of electromotive force coincides in direction with that of the normal curve .
produced by the difference of potential existing at that instant between the terminals of the electrometer , and on this was based a method of deteimining the amount of that difference .
Further Investigation of the Formula y = ae~ct .
Calibration Error.\#151 ; The greater the range of the excursion for a given small difference of potential , the slower is the action of the instrument .
Hence , in the majority of capillaries , the rate of movement decreases as the meniscus approaches the tip of the capillary .
Change of Resistance.\#151 ; The shorter the length of dilute acid , the smaller is the resistance , and the quicker is the motion ; hence , in all instruments there is a tendency to increased rapidity as the meniscus approaches the tip of the capillary .
The equivalent internal resistance of an electrometer may be writfen R = r(L + Z ) , where Z = the length of the capillary beyond the meniscus at any moment , and L = a constant many times larger than Z , and representing the sum total of the mechanical and the remaining electrical resistances .
The effect of the change of resistance is so much smaller that it may be completely masked and neutralised by the calibration error , which has an opposite effect .
Change in the Mode of Photographing the Excursions .
In order to bring out the details of the electrical phenomena of muscle , it was necessary to make the plates move faster than was possible with the apparatus hitherto employed .
To do this they were attached to a kind of balanced pendulum and caused to describe an arc of a circle .
With this arrangement the normal excursion is best expressed in polar coordinates .
Time beiug recorded on a circular arc , t becomes 0 .
Instead of the rectilinear asymptote there is an asymptotic circle of radius = R. The expression for the radius vector is r = R + t/ , the equation connecting y and 0 being y ae~ce .
' With such a curve the method of analysis first put forward is no longer applicable .
In place of it however there is a still simpler one .
The equation to the polar sub normal , cot = is in this case independent of R , being simply cy .
In other woi'ds , the polar subnormal to a point on the curve is a constant multiple of its distance 174 On the Excursions of the Capillary Electrometer .
[ Nov. 19 f from the asymptotic circle , and consequently , by the same reasoning on which the previous method of analysis was based , represents , on a scale which can be easily determined , and which is constant so long as the resistance in circuit is unchanged , the difference of potential between the terminals of the electrometer , minus or plus the difference of potential indicated by the position of the meniscus above or below the zero-line .
Analysis of a Normal Curve .
Full details are given of the measurement of a normal curve , the equation to which was shown to be y = the maximum difference between the observed and the calculated values being only 0'071 mm. The constant multiplier in this case was c = 8'50 .
Details of five other smaller excursions of known value are also given , showing that the error in determining differences of potential by this method is less than 1 per cent. Artificial Spikes .
This name was given to excursions produced by two currents in opposite directions , each lasting about 0'005 second .
It was intended by this means to investigate the effects of overshooting , and also to ascertain whether the electrometer was capable of discriminating between a current of definite strength suddenly communicated to it , and a more or less gradual rise of a difference of potential extending over a period of equal duration .
That it can do so was clearly established .
The effect of the elasticity of the meniscus , and of overshoot-ing proper , is shown .
With no resistance in circuit it did not exceed 0 01 of the full excursion , and was rendered inappreciable by the introduction of a few thousand ohms .
Part II .
Application of the Method to the Study of the Electrical Variations of Muscle .
A fter a brief sketch of the problem under consideration and the mode in winch the physiological experiments were made , the author describes minutely the manner in which a muscle-curve is analysed .
In order to illustrate the kind of information which can be thus obtained , he gives a series of specimen records of the electrical variations of the gastrocnemius of the frog , together with the analysis of each , he interpretation of the results , from a physiological standpoint , he desiies to leave entirely in the hands of Professor Burdon Sanderson , to whom he is indebted for permission to make use of the photographs .

