February 12 , 1852 .
COLONEL SABINE , R.A. , V.P. and Treas .
, in the Chair .
The following communications were read:1 .
The subjoined Letter from Professor Haidinger to Captain Smyth , R.N. , For .
Sec. R.S. , dated Vienna , January 15 , 1852 .
Received January 23 , 1852 .
Sir , -The great success with which optical researches are treated of in the publications of the Royal Society , must make me anxious to lay before the Society , in a few words , a concise and convincing demonstration of the theorem that in a ray of polarized light the vibrations are perpendicular to the plane of polarization , conform .
ably to the views of MM .
Fresnel and Cauchy , and not in the plane of polarization , as some other mathematicians have maintained .
My demonstration is founded on the nature of dichroitic crystals , as tourmaline , sapphire , idocrase , &amp;c. Any perfectly homogeneous crystal of this description presents two different tints of colours .
One of them appears in the direction of the axis , as well as in all directions perpendicular to it , and it is always polarized in a plane passing through the axis ; the other tint appears in every azimuth in the directions perpendicular to the axis , and it is polarized in a plane perpendicular to the axis .
The latter of these colours does not appear at all , if the crystal is examined in the direction of the axis ; if it depend at all on transverse vibrations , all vibrations of this kind , transverse or perpendicular to the axis , are at once excluded , and the only vibrations that can possibly belong to the colour of the extraordinary ray produced in the crystal , are those parallel to the direction of the axis .
But agreeably to observation the plane of polarization is itself perpendicular to the axis , the vibrations therefore take place in directions perpendicular to the plane of polarization .
Trichroitic crystals of course will yield a similar demonstration , as cordierite , andalusite , diaspore , axinite , and others .
I shall not fail to send a copy of the communication I am to present today to the Vienna Academy , as soon as it shall have been printed .
The importance of the subject will , I am confident , plead as an apology for my trespassing on your kindness in thus making the request , that you will lay the present communication before the Royal Society .
I have the honour to be , Mly dear Sir , Your obedient Servant , W. HAIDINGER .

