]\gt ; The Influence of Gases on the mission of Electrons Ions from Hot Metals .
By O. W. DSON , D.Sc .
, , Wheatstone Professor of Physics , University of London , King 's College .
( Received April 22 , 1915 .
) As is well known , the saturation density of the electron currents from hot bodies can be represented accurately by the formula , ( 1 ) where is the absolute temperature and A and are constants characteristic of the substance .
An equation of type ( 1 ) has been found to represent the currents not only from pure metals in a good vacuum but also when a aseous atmosphere is present , provided the constants are given different values .
Thus in general A and are functions of the nature and pressure of the surrounding gas as well as of the hot metal .
They are independent of within the limits of temperature in which the formula is valid .
In the case of pure metals there is evidence that the formuIa is valid at all temperatures .
In certain cases the constants A and are very sensitive to minute changes in the nature and pressure of the surrounding gaseous atmosphere .
This is well shown by experiments on tungsten , where a slight lrace of hydrogen changed the value of A by a factor of about and that of from oC .
to oC .
In the case of platinum heated in an atmosphere of , H. A. Wilson has shown that A and are functions of the pressure of the hydrogen , and that the changed values of A and are subject to the relation , ( 2 ) where are oonStanLS .
In other words , the changes in the constants A and caused by the admission of hydrogen are always of such a character that the change in A divided by the change in is invariant .
In the present paper it is shown that a similar relation holds for the changes in the values of A and for sten which are caused by traces of various yases .
In fact it seems probable , in reneral , that when the emission of ions from metals is affected by the presence of gases , the changes in A and are subject to a linear relation between and A. There is evidence that the relation is independent of the particular gas used to ' Phys. Rev vol. 2 , p. 460 ( 1913 ) .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 208 , p. 247 ( 1908 ) .
Influence of Gases on Emission of Electrons Ions .
525 effect the changes , and that the law applies to the emission of positive ions as well as electrons from hot metals .
In view of the complexity of the phenomena which may occur when metals at a high temperature are immersed in a gaseous atmosphere it seems unlikely that such a simple law will be exact for all the small changes in A and which may arise ; but the evidence is strong that it covers the main features of the phenomenon .
Let us consider the case of tungsten first .
Langmuir ( loc. cit. ) has measured values of A and from this substance both in the best attainable vacuum , similar to that in a Coolidge tube , and in a vacuum to which small amounts of various gases have been added .
The data obtained are shown in the following Table:\mdash ; The conditions were with the time in some of the experiments , so that in such cases the data are only oproximate .
It is clear from a glance at the fures for hydrogen that A and are not definite functions of the pressure of this gas .
The in the constants apparently caused by hydrogen are probably caused by some other substance introduced with it .
Langmuir , who takes this standpoint , attributes them to traces of water vapour .
Although there is no relation between the values of either A or and the pressure of the gas which appears to determine these values , there is definite relation between all the values of A and given in the Table .
It will be noticed that the corresponding values of A and always diminish or increase together .
Thus a high value of A always corresponds to a high value of , and vice versed .
In fact , no matter which of the gases tested determines the values of the constants A is a linear function of .
This is clearly shown in fig. 1 , in which A is plotted against the corresponding value of .
The figure contains all the data given in the Table , and some others in addition .
In fact , it contains all the Prof. O. W. Richardson .
Th - Influence of Gases on Considering all the points simply as they stand , the divergence from the line drawn is considerably greater than the corresponding.deviation of the slen points shown in fig. 1 .
The agreement is , however , very much improved if the conditions affecting the different determinations , which are by no means of equal value , are ently considered .
Thus Nos. 10 and 11 are believed to be affected by the occurrence of ionisation by collision .
This makes A too big without .
Again No. 13 is believed to be cted by lack of saturation .
If the currents are fairly small fractions of the saturation ] A will be too small and unaltered .
These objections to Nos. 10 , 11 , and 13 were pointed out when the original data were published .
On these grounds we should expect Nos. 10 and 11 to be above and No. 13 below the line , as in fact is the case .
No. 9 is a very old observation and its distance from the line might be due to a number of causes .
No. 5 is deduced from a small number of determinations of very small currents which extend over a short stretch of temperature ; so that the possible error of measurein this case must be quite considerable .
No. 12 is given by Langmuir as only a preliminary determination , and further investigation may change its position considerably .
As ards Nos. 7 and 8 there does not seem to be any obvious criticism one can offer ; but they are not very far from the line , and it is possible that the true position of this should be a little to the right of that in which it has been drawn .
We see then that in platinum as well as tungsten there is a correspondence between the values of A and , so that large values of A correspond to values of , and conversely .
There is , however , one important difference between the two metals .
In tungsten the pure metal has small values of the constants , which are increased by gaseous contaminants , whereas pure platinum appears to be characterised by high values of the constants , which are reduced by the presence of gases .
It is possible that traces of are responsible for all the changes observed with platinum , but that is a point which I do not wish to discuss in the present paper , the object of which is to consider corresponding changes in A and without reference to the processes causing them .
Since the changes observed with platinum and tungsten are similar , but in opposite directions , it is natural to try to attribute them to similar causes in opposite senses in the two metals .
of the Effect of Gases on the Emission stants .
The theory of the efflct of hydrogen on electron emission from platinum has been considered at by H. A. Wilson .
* In the present paper I * 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 208 , p. 247 ( 1908 ) .
the Emission of Electrons and Ions Hot Metals .
529 shall consider the effect of contamination on the emission constants general from a somewhat different standpoint .
It has been found empirically that the emission from pure metals either in a vacuum or in equilibrium with a gaseous atmosphere can be represented by the formula .
( 1 ) There is a certain amount of doubt about the exact value of the index of in the factor in this formula , as the particular value may be replaced by any number between and without appreciably affecting the agreement of the formula with the experimental numbers , provided somewhat different values of the constants A and are taken .
We shall , however , disregard this point and assume ( 1 ) to hold , as the values of the constants we are dealing with are based on the assumption that ( 1 ) is valid .
In addition to equation ( 1 ) there are a number of related equations*which may be deduced by the application of the principles of thermodynamics to electron emission .
In considering these it is more convenient to deal with the number of electrons per cubic centimetre of the space outside the body which are in equilibrium with it at the temperature , instead of the saturation current .
These quantities are related by the equation , ( 3 ) where is the charge and ?
the mass of an electron and is Boltzmann 's constant .
The only assumptions involved in the relations referred to are ( 1 ) the reversibility of the phenomena , ( 2 ) the two laws of thermodynamics , and the applicability of the law of a perfect gas to very attenuated electron atmospheres .
The results must , therefore , possess a very high degree of certainty .
The proofs of these relations hitherto given only apply to the case in which gases are absent .
It is thus necessary to modify them somewhat in order to obtain results which will be valid when gases are present and may affect the emissions either by reacting with the electrons or the surfaces .
For purposes of calculation a contaminated surface may be regarded as a pure surface covered with a contaminated layer of composition to a small but finite thickness .
This will probably give a fair representation of the unless the layer of actual contamination is excessively thin .
In that case the superficial properties of the contaminated material might become somewhat indefinite .
The proposed treatment practically amOunts to considering the pure metal as being covered with a thin layer of another metal having the properties of the contaminated *Cf .
The Electron Theory of Matter , ' Chap. XVIII , Cambridge University Press , 1914 .
space outside .
In carrying out the calculation a virtual displacement may be imagined to be produced in a closed cyiinder filled with the gas under consideration by a piston permeable to the gas but not to the electrons .
The base of the cylinder consists of the emitting material .
With this arrangement the only work done is caused by the partial pressure of the electrons on the piston .
On account of the integral in the exponent of in ( 4 ) this relation does not appear to be ] adapted to a discussion of the changes , in A and in equation ( 1 ) , which are caused by gases .
Another disadvantage of ( 4 ) is that it give in terms of the value of for the contaminated material , and this quantity is not directly accessible to experiment .
Another relation involving the specific heat of electricity in the metal is given in the 'Electron Theory of Matter , ' p. 448 .
The proof may be extended to cover the case when gases are present by covering the bodies A and with a definite layer of the contaminated material in equilibrium with the gas , as already outlined .
The difference of potential now includes the contact potential between the two contaminated surfaces .
Before equalising the potentials in the manner described in the calculations referred to , the electrons are separated from the gas by drawing them through a semi-permeable membrane which stops the gas .
A loss of energy , per electron , may be posed to be involved in process without affecting the final results , which are thus valid even if the electrons enter into combination with the gas molecules .
The only other change in the calculation is the introduction of the change in the energy of an electron on passing the interface between the contaminated and the pure surfaces , which corresponds to the Peltier effect .
Proceeding , except for these changes , in the manner of the calculation referred to , , ( 5 ) where is a universal constant , is the ratio of the two specific heats for Ghe electron gas , is the energy change at libsration of an electron from the material , is the energy change when an electron passes the Emission of Electrons and Ions from Hot .
531 from the pure to the contaminated material and corresponds to the Peltier effect , is the electronic charge , and is the specific heat of electricity for the pure material .
If we consider another temperature , , for which the values of the corresponding quantities are denoted by dashes , ( 6 ) so that .
( 7 ) But by a known thermo-electric result , ( 8 ) where is the specific heat of electricity for the contaminated material .
Thus .
( 9 ) From hence , by comparison with ( 9 ) , It appears from this that if for a contaminated material ries considerably with temperature , the specific heat of electricity in such a material may be expected to have abnormally large values .
If and are the values of these quantities for the pure material at temperature , ( 12 ) is obviously zero , but the equations are more symmetrical if it is retained .
By comparison with ( 11 ) , ( 13 ) By a known result , is equal to where is the contact potential difference between the pure and contaminated stlrfaces .
Thus , if and are the saturation currents corresponding to and .
( 14 ) This result may be obtained more directly by considering the equilibrium of electrons in an enclosure containing a rod of the metal in question whose sides are protected by an .
insulated covering , the ends only being free .
The enclosure is divided into two halves by a semi-permeable membrane , which stops the gas but not the electrons , one of the two free ends being in each half of the chamber .
The method which has been 'Electron Theory of MatteI ; ' p. 456 .
532 Prof O. W. Richardson .
The Influence of Gases on adopted , however , brings out a number of additional relations that the whole treatment is self-consistent .
Since we know from experim that is expressed accurately by we have lvhere , is half the number of calories which are equivalent to the work if is the number of molecules per gramme-molecule .
In ( 15 ) A and are constants , but , which is proportional to the change in the contact potential difference caused by the gas , may in general be a function of the temperature as well as of the pressure of the'gas .
Suppose that in the of temperature under consideration is represented by , ( 16 ) where the coefficients are functions of the pressure of the gas , then But since is still of the form , where and are constants , it follows that all the coefficients and are negligible ; so that If and denote the values of A and when gas is present , or , ( 19 ) and or .
( 20 ) To satisfy the linear relation demanded by figs. 1 and 2 it is necessary that should be a positive quantity which is independent of the pressure of the gas .
If , as appears on the surface , this ratio is independent of the nature of the as well as the pressure , the generality of the constancy of is still further extended ; but it is possible that all the effects with a iven nletal which are apparently caused- by various gases are really due to traces of some particular which is present as an impurity .
This does not seem probable in the case of tungsten but it cannot be denied that it is possible .
Thus and have opposite and for a given metal are in a constant ratio .
This ratio is nearly the same , and may be exactly the same , for both metals .
The values of given by figs. and 2 are : for tungsten , and for platinum .
.If we denote the value of this ratio by we may write equation ( 18 ) .
( 21 ) For the temperatures at which the experiments have been made is less than 1 for both metals ; so that the of is that of .
For tungsten the Emission of Etectrons and Ions from Hot .
533 is positive ; so that is positive at these temperatures , and the effect of gaseous amination should be to make the metal electronegative to pure tungsten .
The actual change in the contact potential difference , compared with the pure metal , should be given by : volts .
( 22 ) The data taken from fig. 1 on substitution in the formula make the extreme value of at 2000o K. , corresponding to and , equal to volt .
For platinum is negative ; so that contamination with should make the pure nletal more electropositive , as is known to be the case .
The magnitude of the should be comparable with that for tungsten .
The calculated contact potentials are those which would be observed at the high temperatures of the experiments ; so that they are not strictly comparable with those given by experiments at ordinary temperatures .
Emission of Positire Ions .
There is some evidence that the linear relation between the constants A and in the emission temperature formula holds for the emission of positive ions as well as of electrons , although the data available in this case are nruch less extensive .
The writer*has measured the values of A and for the positive emission from an old platinum wire in the eraseous aeres : \mdash ; ( 1 ) Oxygen at 2 mm. , ( 2 ) hydrogen at mm. , ( 3 ) air at 760 mm. , ( 4 ) at 226 mm. and ( 5 ) nitrogen at mm. These appear to include the known data .
The values of are plotted against the Corresp n values of in fig. 3 , the points being numbered in accordance with the foregoing enumeration .
It seems hardly likely that the observed linearity is due to a coincidence , although there was evidence the experiments with hydrogen that complete equilibrium between the 1netal and the gas was not attained .
Thus too much reliance should not be placed on the points numbered ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) .
The whole question , of course , calls for further investigation .
It is interesting to note that the value of , or is of the same order as that for the negative emission .
Data taken fro1ll fig. 3 give If the change in the negative emission constants is so intimately connected with the contact difference of potential as we have supposed , one might * Phil. Trans , vol. 207 , p. 60 1906 ) .
for the of Dibasic Acids .
535 case of these two metals .
In this connection it is interesting to notice that the effect of hydrogen on the constant for the positive emission from platinum is opposite to that for the negative emission for this metal , and is in the same sense as that for the ative emission from tungsten .
These differences are to be expected if it is a question of of dissolved or adsorbed ions .
In concluding , the writer ventures to hope that the considerations have been forward will help to introduce some degree of derliness into the experimental values of the elnission constants , which , it must be admitted , are at present somewhat incoherent .
General Equations the No olisation of Acids , their Use to Calculate the Acidity of Dilute Carbonate Solutions .
By E. ( Communicated by Prof. F. G. Donnan , F.R.S. Received May 26 , 1915 .
) The numerous equations which have been proposed to express the equilibrium of acids , bases , salts , and their ions are generally convenient to apply , since in each particular case different simplifying assumptions can be 1nade .
The subject has now a stage , however , at which these can be replaced by equations of a more ature .
Practically the most important cases are those of the mono-and poly-basic acids combined with monacid bases , which furnish the bulk of those mixtures of balanced hydrion concentration which are used in physiological chemistry and also effect the physical ulation of the physiological fluids themselves .
The relation between the stage of neutralisation and the hydrion concentration of these acids is such that , usually , only two dissociation constants need to be considered .
Thus the constants of a tribasic acid , such as orthophosphoric , are each one of a higher order of magnitude than that which precedes it , and at the of neutralisation at which the third begins to have an effect , that of the first is inappreciable .
The eneral equation for a weak dibasic acid will alone be considered in what follows .
This will dissociate in steps\mdash ; , ( ) .

