1890.1 Transplantation and Growth of Mammalian Ova .
457 distribution of individual varieties of the same patterns about their respective typical centres was precisely analogous in its form , say , to that of the Shrimps about theirs , as described in a recent memoir by Mr. Weldon ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' No. 291 , p. 445 ) .
It was argued from this , that natural selection has no monopoly of influence either in creating ' genera or in maintaining their purity .
III .
il Preliminary Note on the Transplantation and Growth of Mammalian Ova within a Uterine Foster-Mother .
" By Walter Heap , M.A. , Balfour Student at the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received November 1890 .
In this preliminary note I wish merely to record an experiment by which it is shown that it is possible to make use of the uterus of one variety of rabbit as a medium for the growth and complete foetal development of fertilised ova of another variety of rabbit .
Briefly , the experiment made was as follows :\#151 ; On the 27th April , 1890 , two ova were obtained from an Angora doe rabbit which had been fertilised by an Angora buck thirty-two hours previously ; the ova were undergoing segmentation , being divided into four segments .
These ova were immediately transferred into the upper end of the fallopian tube of a Belgian hare doe rabbit which had been fertilised three hours before by a buck of the same breed as herself .
It may be well to mention here , I bought this Belgian hare doe some three months before ; the man from whom I bought her bred her , and guaranteed her to be a virgin doe of about seven months old .
During the time I had her , until the 27th April , she had never been covered by a buck of any breed , being kept always isolated from the various bucks in my rabbitry .
In due course this Belgian hare doe gave birth to six young\#151 ; four 'f these resembled herself and her mate , while two of them were undoubted Angoras .
The Angora young were characterised by the possession of the long silky hair peculiar to the breed , and were true albinoes , like their Angora parents .
As a proof of their parentage , I would add they inherit a habit which nearly all the Angoras I have kept affect\#151 ; it was marked in their Angora mother and especially pronounced in their father\#151 ; a abit of slowly swaying their head from side to side as they look at y'u* I mention this fact because I have never observed the same ahit in any breed of rabbits except Angora .
t should be remembered also as a further proof that I put into the e giau hare doe two fertilised ova from the Angora doe , and that two ngora young were borne by the former .
458 Mr. V. H. Veley .
The Conditions of Chemical [ Nov. 27 Three of the Belgian hare young unfortunately died during the months of September and October , from some undetermined cause ( alimentary F ) ; one of the Belgian hare young\#151 ; a doe\#151 ; and the two Angoras\#151 ; both bucks\#151 ; -survive , and appear fairly strong and hearty .
At the date on which I am writing , 7th November , 1890 , the surviving young ones are twenty-three weeks old , having been born on the 29th May , 1890 .
All the young at the time of their birth suffered more or less from some skin disease , which , however , disappeared under treatment , and one of the Angora young , who suffered the most from the skin disease , has been remarkably scantily supplied with hair , but this defect is becoming less and less obvious .
Both the Angora young when born were bigger and stronger than any of the other young , and they have all along retained their supremacy in this direction .
I can see no sign in the Angora young of any Belgian hare strain , and the Belgian hare young have not shown any likeness to their foster-brothers .
The surviving Belgian hare inherits a white left fore-foot from her father , and one of those which died was similarly marked .
The peculiarities of the Angora young have been already noted .
The experiment described above was undertaken to determine in the first place what effect , if any , a uterine foster-mother would have upon her foster-children , and whether or not the presence and development of foreign ova in the uterus of a mother would affect the offspring of that mother born at the same time .
So far as this single case goes , the evidence is negative .
Before long , I propose to continue my experiments and to extend them .
In concluding this note , I would record my great indebtedness to Mr. Samuel Buckley , M.D. ( Lond. ) , E.R.C.S. ( Eng. ) , of Manchester , who has most kindly given me his valuable assistance in the necessary operative portion of the experiment .
IV .
" The Conditions of Chemical Change between Nitric Acid and certain Metals .
" By V. H. Veley , M.A. , the University Museum , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor Odang , F.H.S. .Received October 23 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) .
This paper is in continuation of a preliminary communication on the same subject ; the main points contained in it are as follows : I. The metals copper , mercury , and bismuth do not dissolve 'u

