38 Lewis and Clarke on the Cortical Lamination [ Jan , 24 , metre of gas at the highest exhaustion to which these experiments have been carried .
Two hundred and fifty billions of molecules in a cubic centimetre appear a sufficiently large number to justify the sup-position that when set into vibration by a white-hot wire they may be capable of exerting an enormous mechanical effect .
January 24 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , in the Chair .
The presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following papers were read I. " New Determination of the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat .
" By J. P. Joule , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 15 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) An account is given by the author , of the experiments he has recently made , with a view to increase the accuracy of the results given in his former paper , published in the " Philosophical Transactions " for 1850 .
The result he has now arrived at , from the thermal effects of the friction of water , is , that taking the unit of heat as that which can raise a pound of water , weighed in vacuo , from 60 ' to 61 ' of the mercurial thermometer ; its mechanical equivalent , reduced to the sea-level at the latitude of Greenwich , is 772'55 foot-pounds .
II .
" The Cortical Lamination of the Motor Area of the Brain .
" By Bevan Lewis , F.R.M.S. , Pathologist and Assist .
Med. Officer to the West Riding Asylum , and Henry Clarke , L.R.C.P. Lond. , Med. Officer to the West Riding Prison .
Communicated by D. Ferrier , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Forensic Medicine , King 's College , London .
Received November 7 , 1877 .
[ Plates 1-3 .
] Whilst pursuing certain investigations upon the comparative histology of the brain , the authors of this article have been enabled to demonstrate certain facts with regard to cortical lamination , and to show the disposition and significance of certain elementary constituents , the importance of which , they believe , justifies their publication .
1878 .
] of the Motor Area of the Brain .
Types of Structural Lamination .
Meynert enumerates five distinct plans , according to which the various layers of the cortex are disposed , of which the more extensive formation is his five-laminated type , which he regards as that characteristic of the cortex of the vault and a portion of the gyrus fornicatus.* It is with regard to this type of structural lamination that the observations now to be recorded deal ; and it is hoped that they will tend not only to point out how errors have crept into the descriptions of some writers , but also to reconcile conflicting opinions upon this subject .
We regard the ascending frontal convolution as affording the most suitable representation of the typical lamination of the motor area , and our descriptions , therefore , apply more directly to this region than to the remaining gyri at the vertex .
It is premised that at least one authority of note , Baillarger , differs from Meynert in his description of this type of lamination , enumerating the layers as six in number , whilst Meynert notices five only .
Typical Lamination of the Motor Area .
The following description of the lamination of cellular elements in the ascending frontal convolution will suffice to convey the result of our observations .
First Layer.\#151 ; A pale narrow band , extremely delicate and friable , is seen in sections to form the extreme limit of the cortical layers .
The histological tissues composing this formation are connective , nervous , and vascular .
The connective does not differ essentially from that universally present as the basis of the cortical substance .
It consists of minute fibrils , interlacing , anastomosing , and forming , by an intricate plexiform arrangement , a dense felt-like bed , possessing great powers of elastic distension .
In the areol^Jbetwixt these fibrils , a finely molecular base may be detected , which appears greatly altered by the employment of various reagents .
In this matrix distinct connective cells are observed , including one or more nuclei within an investment of most delicate protoplasm , and from which , when seen under favourable circumstances , numerous minute branches radiate into the surrounding neuroglian network .
In sections obtained from preparations hardened by chromic acid two forms of cellular elements are observed : ( a. ) Cells that in diameter vary from 6/ t to 9/ t , the delicate protoplasm of which is almost invariably shrunken up or destroyed by the re-agents employed , appearing , therefore , like free nuclei , except when examined by fresh methods of preparation .
These elements assume the direction taken by the vessels of the cortex , and frequently are seen in large numbers along the perivascular sheaths .
( 6 .
) Larger cells , ranging in diameter up to 13/ a , with a similarly * " The Brain of Mammals .
" By Theodore Meynert ( Strieker 's Human and Comparative Histology , vol. ii , p. 381 ) .
Lewis and Clarke on the Cortical Lamination [ Jan , 24 , delicate protoplasmic investment .
These cells include one , two , or three nuclei , and assume a spheroidal or flask-like configuration in situ ; when , however , seen near the frayed-out margin of a teased preparation , they are found to give off numerous radiating processes .
Aniline black ( for which nervous elements have a great affinity ) stains their nuclei , investing protoplasm and its extensions so uniformly and faintly , that it is with some difficulty they are recognised , complete differentiation from the faintly-tinted matrix being scarcely attainable .
In form , reaction to staining agents , and still more as regards their modifications by disease , they are undoubtedly proved to be connective elements .
We find occasionally that these elements proliferate freely , assume the most quaint forms , and produce a dense matting of fibres .
Such a condition , truly a sclerosis , is figured in a paper recently contributed to the Royal Society by one of the authors.* Ho other cellular elements appear in the first layer of the cortex ; the angular and fusiform nerve-cells alluded to by some writers have had no existence in specimens we have examined by the fresh and hardened methods .
They are probably elements of the connective group , possibly identical with the larger nucleated bodies just described , the appearance of which is greatly altered by the methods of preparation employed .
The elements found in the first layer , therefore , are neuroglia corpuscles and perivascular cells .
Both varieties are shown in the drawings accompanying this paper .
( Plate 1 , First Layer .
) Second Layer.\#151 ; This consists of a series of closely aggregated pyramidal and oval cells , of small size , whose apical processes are arranged radially to the surface of the cortex .
Numerous other processes arise from the basal angles , and radiate outwards and downwards from the cell , including an extensive area in their distribution .
Their mea- surements vary from 11/ * to 28/ * in length , and from 6/ * to 9/ t in breadth .
Their nucleus is comparatively of large size , often measuring 4/ * to 6u in diameter , sometimes assuming the pyramidal form of the enclosing cell , when it may attain a length of 9/ * .
With the exception of their pigmy size and extremely crowded aggregation , no differences are apparent between them and the larger elements of the third layer .
( Vide Plate 1 , Second Layer .
) Third Layer .
The reddish-grey band coinciding with the second layer , as seen by naked-eye examination , appears abruptly marked off from the pale layer subjacent to it .
On microscopic examination , owever , it is found that the line of demarcation can be only approximately obtained , as the elements of both overlap each other very irregularly .
The distinction between these two layers near their common boundary must depend upon a two-fold condition , viz. , the gradual increase in size of the elements of the third layer and their . .
# " The Relatlonships of the Nerye-cells of the Cortex to the Lymphatic System of the Brain .
By Bevan Lewis , Proc. Eoy .
Soc. , Sept. , 1877 .
1878.1 of the Motor Area of the more distant grouping .
It will be seen in traversing the full depth of this layer ( Plate 1 , Third Layer ) that the cells almost uniformly increase in size from above downwards , yet small pyramidal bodies , no larger than those at the commencement of the series , are found occasionally at all depths , side by side with the larger nerve-cells .
The configuration of these cells is by no means uniform .
They often assume the pyriform rather than the truly pyramidal form , having their larger basal extremity marked by numerous dentations , from whose projecting points delicate branches are thrown off on all sides .
Their apical process is directed radially to the surface of the cortex , and can be traced up into its second layer .
Each cell contains a nucleus and a distinct nucleolus .
The basal or axis-cylinder process is rarely seen , as it is necessarily divided , in most cases , by the oblique direction which it takes to reach the radiating fibres of the medulla .
These cells vary greatly in dimensions : those in the uppermost regions of this stratum measuring 12a by 8/ 4 , their nucleus being 7/ 4 by 5/ 4 ; whilst those in parts bordering upon the subjacent layer average 22 / 4 in length , and the largest cells even attain a size of 41 / 4 by 23/ 4 .
Fourth Layer.\#151 ; We have now entered upon highly debatable ground , including the chief topic we have proposed for consideration .
Much confusion appears to have prevailed with regard to the characters and relationships of this and the subjacent layers .
Thus , Meynert* describes the fourth layer as constituted of irregular angular cells , forming a stratum immediately superincumbent on his fifth layer of spindle-cells .
Baillarger , on the other hand , enumerates six cortical layers , of which Meynert 's angular and spindle-cells form his fourth and sixth respectively .
After considering fully the views of various writers on this subject , we find ourselves unable to agree with most of them regarding this type of lamination .
The layer immediately beneath the third undoubtedly consists of angular cells which in size , form , and branchings are accurately described by Meynert .
They resemble , on a small scale , transverse sections of large pyramidal cells , numerous branches being given off from all sides of the cell , and rarely are they seen extended radially towards the surface of the cortex .
How we find this stratum of angular cells intersected by a layer of immense ganglionic cells , which run about midway through the stratum , and it is distinctly affirmed that these angular cells are found freely above and below this important formation ( Plate 1 , Fourth Layer ) .
On turning our attention more especially to .these ganglionic cells , we find that they differ very materially from any of the elements already described .
The enormous dimensions to which they attain , averaging 71/ 4 in length by 35/ 4 in breadth , stamp them as the most notable objects in the whole depth of the cortex , whilst in special cells the not unusual length of 126/ t , shows that they occasionally rival even # Op. cit. , p. 389.# 42 Lewis and Clarke on the Cortical Tj\lt ; invination [ [ Jan. 24 , the large multipolar cells in the anterior column of the cord .
It will naturally be asked how Meynert could have overlooked this important layer of cells .
Our explanation is , that whilst failing to regard them as a layer distinct from the third , yet the existence of these individual elements was recognised by him , as he states that the cells of the third layer progressively augment till they attain the length of 40/ 1.* As the largest cells of the third layer , however , but rarely attain such dimensions , we presume that he had in view the elements to which we now allude , probably regarding the depth at which they were placed as an exceptional condition .
Baillarger , on the other hand , whilst recognising the layer , has also , we think , fallen into the error of misplacing it in the order of cortical lamination .
The error consists essentially in placing these cells on too low a level , in fact , between the angular and spindle cells , whilst the many hundred specimens examined by us enable us to localise this series midway down the band of angular elements , a position maintained with singular uniformity .
Dr. Majorf follows Baillarger in regarding the cortex of the vault and that of the central lobe as consisting of six layers .
MierzejewskiJ and Betz || follow Meynert , and refer to a five-laminated type , but the large cells of the cortex more particularly have been made the subject of special study by both writers .
The position of these great cells being such as we have described , one of two schemes must be accepted as representing the normal lamination of this region .
Either the layer of angular cells above these great elements must be regarded as a series separate from those below the same , thus making the type common to this region of the cortex consist of seven laminae , of which the great cells referred to constitute the fifth ; or , on the other hand , these latter cells with the belt of angular elements above and below may be regarded as a single layer , and termed the mixed or ganglionic series .
We incline to the latter as the preferable arrangement , for , apart from the consideration that the former plan introduces an unnecessary multiplication of the series of layers , there remains the important fact that the series of large cells alluded to is not a constant layer .
Indeed , there are extensive portions even of the ascending frontal gyrus when these elements are wholly absent .
At these sites the angular elements present the appearance of a single undivided belt .
We are thus compelled to regard this remarkable layer of cells as an intercalated series , and regard it as preferable still to adhere to Meynert 's five-laminated type , assuming the fourth layer ( which we term the ganglionic layer ) to be subject to the modification above alluded to .
Par more important considerations , however , than # Op. cit. , p. 386 .
1* u Histology of the Island of Reil .
" " West Riding Asylum Med. Reports , vol. vi .
X " Etudes sir les Lesions Cerebrales dans la Paralysee Generale .
" Archives de Physiol. , 1875 .
|| " Gehirn centra .
" Betz , Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wissensch .
, Aug. , 1874 .
1878 .
] of the Motor Area of the Brain .
those dwelt upon attach , themselves to these cells , and these are of such a character as to warrant us considering them apart , after having completed our description of the separate layers of the cortex by a brief examination of the deepest stratum .
Fifth Layer.\#151 ; This series consists of fusiform or spindle-shaped cells , arranged in columns by the interposition of bands of medullary fibres .
( Plate 1 , Fifth Layer ) .
They average in size 25 / t by 9/ * , the largest attaining the dimensions of 32a by 13/ * .
Their nuclei are almost invariably oval , and measure from 11a 13a in length by 6/ t to 9a in breadth .
As remarked by Meynert , * these cells are not strictly bi-polar , as a large proportion throw off several branches , whilst a very frequent form gives off a lateral branch from the projecting side of the cell midway between either extremity ( Plate 1 , Fifth Layer ) .
These cells are arranged in columns as above stated , their long axis lying in the plane of the intervening medullary fibres , but along the base of a sulcus their long axis lies horizontally to the surface of the cortex , suggesting the belief that they belong to the connecting or arcuate system .
An extensive series of observations was made with the object of calculating the varying number of cells in the third and fifth layers at different points along the ascending frontal convolution , and it was found that the average number of pyramidal cells in the quarter-inch fieldf was fifty-seven , the average number of spindle cells was forty .
The extremes were respectively thirty-three to ninety-nine , and twenty-one to seventy-three .
Although at some sites , therefore , the proportion may increase to three times what it is at other sites , no relationship could be traced between these variations and the alternating thickness and dense groupings of cells in the remaining layers .
For convenience of reference we subjoin a table of measurements of the cells of the different layers of the cortex in the ascending frontal convolution .
Length .
Breadth .
First Layer .
6/ t\#151 ; 9/ \#171 ; 6y.\#151 ; 9yw Small cells Large " 18/ a 6/ u\#151 ; 9 fx Second Layer 11/ u\#151 ; 23/ t Third Layer .
12/ t Smaller cells .
8 jut Larger 22/ t\#151 ; 41/ * 4ytf 23 / U Fourth Layer .
71/ t Ganglionic cells 35 , a Largest cell observed 126 , a 55 fx Fifth Layer 25/ i\#151 ; 82/ t 9 yU 13/ U * Op. cit. , p. 389 .
+ The quarter-inch field alluded to was equivalent to a circle half a millimetre in diameter .
Lewis and Clarke on the Cortical [ Jan. 24 , Ganglionic Cells of the Fourth Layer .
Three years ago Professor Betz* published the results of a series of observations which had for their object the more accurate description quantitatively and qualitatively of the histological elements of the cortex .
His results were of much interest and importance .
Professor Betz terms these great cells " giant pyramids , " and gives a short account of their anatomical distribution in man and the higher apes .
The important conclusion arrived at by Betz was that the " giant pyramids , " in their form and distribution , have the significance of motor cells .
We have thought it highly desirable to make a critical examination of the relationship which these ganglionic cells bear to the extensive area defined as the motor area by Perrier .
We shall consider these cells under the four heads of Form , Size , Processes , and Distribution .
1st .
Form .
This is very variable , as may be seen by reference to Plate 2 .
The pyramidal form is frequent , whilst a plump body elongated towards either pole approaching in contour somewhat the fusiform character is very typical of these cells .
The truly fusiform , or bi-polar cell , is more rarely met with except in the region of the first frontal convolution .
The cell itself is devoid of a cell-membrane , and its protoplasmic contents extend for some distance into the very numerous branches arising from it .
To this may be attributed the great irregularity in marginal conformation , for the more numerous the branches arising from a cell the more irregular will its outline be .
Ho other nervous elements in the cerebral cortex assume such fantastic outlines , or give rise to so many branching processes .
Considering their dimensions and their numerous connections , we may be justified in regarding them as among the most highly integrated anatomical units in the cerebrum .
Each cell contains a large round or oval nucleus enclosing a nucleolus .
They are peculiarly prone to pigmentation\#151 ; patches of pigment being found in the protoplasm of most of these cells as a constant and normal constituent , just as it is found universally present in the multipolar cells of the cord .
Their immediate environments have been already considered in a paper alluded to above ( " Relationships of the Nerve-cells to the Lymphatic System " ) .
2nd .
Size .
The measurement of a large number of these cells from the same site in the ascending frontal convolution gave us an average length of 60/ *\#151 ; an average diameter of 25/ t , the extremes being 30 / * and 96/ t for length , 12/ * and 45/ * for breadth .
Taking , however , a very large selection of cells from various points of this convolution the average length was 71/ t , the average width was 35/ t , the extremes varying from 36/ t to 126/ * for length , and from 24/ t to 55/ t for breadth .
* " Anatomischer Nacliweis Zweier Geliirncentra .
" Prof. Betz , Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wissensch .
, Aug. , 1874 .
1878.1 of the Motor Area of the Brain .
The breadth of these cells was again tested by their measurement in several sections cut at right angles to their long diameter .
In this case 156 cells averaged 35/ * .
The nucleus averaged 13/ * long , by 9 / * broad , the extreme length 20/ * , extreme breadth 12/ t. 3rd .
Processes .
The average number of secondary processes* arising from ninety of these cells was seven , the largest number observed was fifteen .
Sections across the long axis of the cell , however , occasionally brought into view as many as eighteen , and exhibited the cell as occupying the centre of an extensive area over which its branches spread , radiating outwards and downwards from all points of its margin .
From this mode of branching it will , of course , be apparent that the absolute number of processes given off by a single cell cannot be determined with any degree of certainty , and that statements with regard to the comparative number of such in man and the lower animals must be received with extreme caution , as the number exhibited will vary with the direction of the section and the methods employed for examination .
It will be readily conceived how the fresh method of preparation described by one of the authors of this paper , f brings into view a far larger number of processes than are observed by other methods of preparation .
4th .
Distribution .
The facilities afforded by the ether-freezing microtome , !
have enabled the writers to examine in rapid succession and under most favourable conditions extensive portions of the same brain in a perfectly fresh state , and with but little trouble a series of convolutions may thus be sliced from end to end and the sections examined seriatim .
The results of such an examination have been to demonstrate the very important fact that these " giant cells " are distributed over certain definite areas which are remarkably constant , and it appears to the authors that these cell-groupings are especially and exclusively a characteristic feature of the motor area , as defined by Ferrier .
That these giant cells may be found in isolated positions at parts not included in the motor area the writers do not question ; but they have not succeeded in finding any large groups or distinct areas of such elements in portions of the cortex at a distance from this region of the motor centres .
The present investigation has been limited to a portion of the motor area , viz. , the ascending frontal and two upper frontal convolutions ; but it is hoped that this attempt to sketch the topographical distribution of these cells may prove but the introduction to a more complete and accurate investigation of the histology of individual convolutions .
Such an investigation must eventually be made if scientific precision is aimed at by the histologist in the field of cerebral * By secondary processes we mean all branches , exclusive of the two main branches\#151 ; the basal and apical .
t Monthly Microscopical Journal , Sept. , 1876 .
J Vide Journal of Anat .
and Phys. , April , 1877 , and Mo. Micros .
Journal .
46 Lewis and Clarke on the Cortical Lamination [ Jan. 24 , pathology .
The scheme ( Plate 3 ) appended to this paper represents the distribution of these cells as determined from a thorough microscopic examination of the left ascending frontal , and two upper frontal convolutions of eight human brains , in all of which the arrangement of these cells was remarkably uniform .
The broad upper extremity of the ascending frontal convolution , limited above by the longitudinal fissure and below by the lower line of origin of the first frontal , was found to present two large groupings of these cells .
The first group ( fig. 1 , A\#151 ; D ) includes some of the largest cells in this formation , and is distributed over the posterior or parietal aspect of the gyrus adjacent to the ascending parietal convolution .
This group disappears towards the summit of this lobule , so that the anterior or frontal half of a section usually shows none of these cells present .
W Fig. 1.\#151 ; Left ascending frontal and two upper frontal convolutions , seen from above .
The letters refer to the parts from which sections figured in the scheme were taken .
The second group ( fig. 1 , E\#151 ; G ) appears near the lower point of origin of the first frontal , and is found along the frontal aspect at this point\#151 ; none being found posterior or along the parietal side .
The first group referred to occupies the upper two-thirds of this portion of the ascending frontal , and limited almost exclusively to the aspect adjacent to the ascending parietal , corresponds to the areas 2 and 4 in Eerrier 's drawings.* In the scheme several sections through this area ( Plate 3 , A\#151 ; D ) represent the exact number and distribution of these cells at different levels from above downwards .
The lower group ( Plate 3 , E ) , which takes a position forwards near the first frontal , appears to correspond closely to another motor area ( No. 5 of Ferrier ) .
The cell-groupings here are entirely on the frontal half of the convolution , but at slightly lower levels , as at F and G they are observed to spread over the yertex of the gyrus and appear at its posterior aspect ( Plate 3 , F\#151 ; G ) .
The portion of this convolution intervening between the two upper * " The Functions of the Brain .
" By Dr. Ferrier .
Figs. 63 and 65 .
1878 .
] of the Motor Area of the Brain .
frontals presents almost invariably a marked sinuous flexure , the central portion of which often forms a tolerably plump lobule .
A large area is represented by the parietal aspect of the upper two-thirds of this region in which the cells are large and numerous , extending beyond the vertex of the convolution ( Plate 3 , K ) , but , sloping backwards at a lower level until they finally disappear ( Plate 3 , M ) .
Thus from the points M to N no groupings of these cells were discoverable .
Again , the remaining third of this region , and the portion immediately connected with the second frontal convolution , show a separate grouping of these great cells ( Plate 3 , U___O ) .
The latter group commences posteriorly and spreads beyond the vertex of the convolution .
The two separate areas last described ( H\#151 ; M and N\#151 ; O ) occupy approximately the circles 6 and 7 in Perrier 's figures.* The posterior extremities of the superior and middle frontal Fig. 2 .
Left ascending frontal convolution , seen from the side , including that portion of the two upper frontals ( R\#151 ; S ) admitted into the scheme for examination .
The letters , as in fig. 1 , correspond with those of the scheme ( Plate 3 ) .
convolutions exhibit a very extensive area of these cells , which , however , rapidly disappear as our sections extend forwards .
It is to be observed that this extensive group of cells can be followed back into the ascending frontal convolution , communicating therefore with the series which at the origin of the frontals have been seen to occupy the anterior aspect ( Plate 3 , R and S ) .
To recapitulate , we have presented to us a series of distinct groupings of these great cells arranged chiefly along th aspect of * Op. cit. Figs. 63 and 65 .
48 Lewis and Clarke on the Cortical Lamination , fyc .
[ Jan. 24 , t the ascending frontal convolution , interrupted by two groups which occupy the frontal aspect at the origin of the superior and middle frontals , and which at these points appear to run into an extensive area disposed over the posterior third of the two latter convolutions .
That portion of the ascending frontal marked P ( on the chart of the convolutions ) has a group of these cells situated along its parietal aspect .
The portion intervening between the two lower frontals we have excluded from our scheme , relegating it to a later period , when it will be described in common with the rest of the motor area .
Meanwhile we would draw attention to the fact that these cells diminish in size towards the lower extremity of the ascending frontal , as they also do in the areas included in the frontal gyri , as shown by the following table :\#151 ; Average Size of Ganglion Cells .
Largest Cell .
Left ascending frontal { upper extremity ) ... First frontal { area at posterior end ) Left ascending frontal { lower extremity ) . . .
60y x 25ytt 45/ X X 20yU 35fx x 17/ u 90/ \lt ; x 45 , u 69/ 4 x 21 fx 41/ t x 18/ t In the area at the posterior end of the first frontal ( fig. 1 , P ) , the cells assume an elongated contour , a very large majority approaching the spindle form .
It is necessary to add that the limits of these areas is not always sharply defined , as occasionally these cells graduate off into smaller and yet smaller elements of the same character , until they eventually disappear .
In many instances this fading off at the margin is very noticeable .
In other cases , when these ganglionic cells are absent their position is occupied by a series of cells of uniform size , but , whilst exhibiting the general characters of the greater elements , they do not exceed in size the smaller cells of the third layer .
These elements , however , invariably occupy the same level as the large ganglionic cell , and we regard them as undeveloped representatives of this series .
Within the areas specified these large cells are grouped closely together in twos or threes , and often assume the arrangement of a belt one cell deep .
To recapitulate , then , we find these cells form an interrupted series differing thus from the continuous layers above them , and that groupings of cells are thus distributed over certain areas of the cortex closely corresponding to several of the motor centres of Perrier .
Again , we find each group is in itself constituted of numerous secondary groups of cells , " the nests " of Betz , which differ much in the number of cells forming each group .
It must also be noted , that although the giant size of these cells in the upper half of the ascending frontal constitutes a most characteristic feature\#151 ; the all-important fact to bear in mind is their interrupted distribution , as Pro\amp ; .Hoy .
SooYol.27.pl 1 .
fell M .\lt ; - 1 / " \#166 ; / T .\#166 ; u. -4 - , T ' \ fl v .
- ft V .
v .m .
1 / \#166 ; V \#166 ; .
' .
Ml ' -fe Co. s\amp ; - 'ToS^Yt^to^vEca^r9 tte J^iPth/ L ay \amp ; r L exvis fe Clarkes Pz'OCs .
Jtoy .
SoclYol .
Ganglio-mc Cells of Cortex . .
From " V^rt-ica , !
Sections .
WJfestScCo.scs .
L e^yTis \amp ; Clark# .
oo .
Roy ' , SocYo~L.Z7.PZ .
3 .
,.v \#187 ; v .*..l A* .
**\#187 ; .
\gt ; , t{ ?
f .ft ' V. *X^V Mi .\ \#163 ; \gt ; fj vf* 0^ wiV- .
Sell erne HlxiS'trsLtiTig .Lis t*rdb~uiti o ti of G axi 911 o 2x1 c Cells ofCoptex K L eftA.scending " Fr ontai Convolixtiem of lAecn ( a\#151 ; Left Superior ^MiddlePVoxLtal Coixvolixtxoia of 1878.J Mr. Lockyer .
Spectrum Analysis .
this feature still predominates in other portions of the motor area where the size of the cells : no longer warrants us in calling them giant cells , their position in the order of lamination , their general form and distribution in clusters sufficing to identify them as the same elements .
This disparity in size between these elements in the fourth layer of the motor area induces us to reject the term giant cell as applied generally to this formation , and to call them in preference the ganglionic cells of the cortex .
Their close resemblance to the ganglionic cells of the spinal cord has been fully recognised by Betz and other observers .
EXPLANATION OF DRAWINGS .
Plate 1 .
A section taken through the ascending frontal at its upper extremity , ex-* hibiting the five layers of the cortex as seen magnified 87 diameters .
Plate 2 .
The ganglionic cells of the fourth layer of the cortex from an area opposite the first frontal on the ascending frontal convolution .
In the lower group the various forms assumed by these giant cells are well shown , whilst the upper group represents the appearance presented by sections carried across their long axis .
The latter method illustrates the wide area commanded by their outspreading branches .
Plate 3 .
A scheme illustrative of the exact number and arrangement of the ganglionic cells at different points of the ascending frontal and two upper frontal gyri .
Each curved line is supposed to represent the boundary line of a section carried vertically through the ascending frontal from before backwards .
The right hand portion of the curve , therefore , represents the side adjacent to the ascending parietal ; the left hand segment of the curves represents the frontal aspect , from which the frontal gyri arise .
Figs. 1 and 2 serve to localise the site of these sections .
The exact number of these cells , and their relative positions , were first sketched , as accurately as possible , under a quarter-inch power , and the sketch reduced by photography .
That portion of the scheme relating to the two frontals shows , at R , a section through the area of the first frontal carried across its length , and at S in like manner , a section through the ascending frontal opposite the second frontal , and , therefore , carried along the length of that convolution .
.N.B.\#151 ; Plates 1 .
and 2 represent sections obtained from frozen brain , by means of the ether microtome .
III .
" Researches in Spectrum Analysis in connection with the Spectrum of the Sun .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received November 17 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) The author refers to the work already done in the new map of the Solar Spectrum as enabling the chemical constitution of the Sun 's atmosphere to be studied under more favourable conditions .
VOL. XXVII .
E

