On the Anode and Cathode Spectra of Various Gases and Vapours .
By Gr .
Stead , B.A. , Formerly Scholar of Clare College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 21 , \#151 ; Read June 1 , 1911 .
) In many gases the colour of the glow surrounding the cathode of a vacuum tube is markedly different from that of the positive column , and there are corresponding differences in the spectra of these two regions .
Some years ago Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson* examined systematically a number of compounds from this point of view , and found that electro-positive elements had a tendency to appear at the cathode , whilst electro-negative elements showed a preference for the anode .
In explanation of these facts he supposed that a process of the nature of electrolysis went on in gases under the influence of the electric discharge , resulting in the liberation of ions in the neighbourhood of the two electrodes .
The present paper gives an account of work which I have been carrying on lately in the Cavendish Laboratory , and which is a continuation and extension of what has previously been done .
The discharge tube used was of the form shown in fig. 1 .
Its length was approximately 25 cm .
, whilst different diameters were tried , varying from about 0*3 cm .
to about 1 cm .
It was divided into two halves by a small plate of aluminium ( about 0*5 cm .
thick ) which fitted sufficiently well to cause the discharge to go through it and not round it .
In these circumstances , one side of the plate forms an anode and the other a cathode , so that a small shift , either of the tube or of the spectroscope , suffices to bring one or the other electrode before the slit .
A Cox induction coil was used , and in order to minimise the effect of reversals a " point and plane " spark-gap was placed in series with the discharge tube .
Part of * " On the Electrolysis of Gases , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1895 , vol. 58 .
Mr. G. Stead .
Anode and Cathode [ Mar. 21 , the work was carried out with an ordinary two-prism spectroscope , the rest with a Hilger constant deviation wave-length spectroscope .
In every case observations were taken over as large a range of pressures as was practicable ( 0-01 cm .
to 1 cm .
, roughly ) .
I. Discharge through an Elementary Gas .
That the two band spectra of nitrogen which appear , the one at the positive and the other at the negative pole , are entirely different , is too well known to require more than a passing mention .
Oxygen shows a similar behaviour .
Characteristic differences are also to be found in pure hydrogen .
The gas was prepared\#151 ; 1 .
By the action of caustic potash on aluminium .
2 .
By acting on pure zinc with dilute sulphuric acid containing a little copper sulphate .
3 .
By the electrolysis of a dilute solution of barium hydroxide .
Whatever the source of the hydrogen , it was always found that the " fourline " spectrum was bright at the cathode and faint at the anode , whilst the secondary spectrum showed much more strongly on the positive than on the negative side of the plate .
Further , the intensity of the blue line ( H/ 3 ) relative to the red line ( Ha ) was much less at the anode than at the cathode .
Various observers* have shown that the appearance of the secondary spectrum is favoured by a weak discharge , i.e. by a low ( electrical ) temperature .
It is thus not improbable that the preference of the secondary spectrum for the anode is due to the smallness of the potential gradient , as compared with the corresponding gradient at the cathode .
II .
Discharge through Compound Gases and Vapours .
( i ) Hydrogen Chloride.\#151 ; The gas was prepared by the action of concentrated sulphuric acid on ammonium chloride , and was dried by means of strong sulphuric acid and phosphorus pentoxide .
At the cathode the four-line spectrum of hydrogen showed brilliantly , accompanied by faint chlorine lines , whereas at the anode the spectrum of chlorine was bright and that of hydrogen faint .
Further , on suddenly reversing the coil , the spectra did not alter immediately .
For a second or so chlorine was bright at the new cathode ( the old anode ) and hydrogen at the new anode , and the change to the fresh conditions took an appreciable time .
* B. Hasselberg , ' Mem. de l'Acad .
de St. Petersbourg ' ( vii ) , vol. 31 , p. 14 ; M. A. Dufour , ' Ann. de Ch. et de Ph. ' ( 3 ) , 1906 , vol. 9 , p. 361 .
1911 .
] Spectra of Various Gases and Vapours .
395 These facts seem to be explained very well by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson 's hypothesis of electrolysis .
The lingering of the spectra on reversal is to be regarded simply as a manifestation of polarisation at the electrodes .
When the discharge was kept running continuously the chlorine was rather rapidly absorbed , presumably by the aluminium electrodes .
It is most important that the hydrogen chloride should be absolutely pure , otherwise the effects just described will not be observed .
The required degree of purity is by no means a simple matter to obtain .
A very small trace of carbon results in the appearance of the carbonic oxide spectrum throughout the positive column , and the chlorine lines , together with the hydrogen , occupy the negative glow .
The effect of a " flash discharge " was also tried .
This was obtained by suddenly discharging a battery of Leyden jars through the spectrum tube .
It was found that , in these circumstances , no separation occurred .
Such a result is to be expected , as a flash discharge is of such short duration that there is no time for any structure to be set up in the tube .
( ii ) Chloroform.\#151 ; Liquid chloroform was admitted into a bulb which had been exhausted as completely as possible , and from this the vapour was drawn off as required .
On first passing the discharge the lines of hydrogen and chlorine appeared together at the cathode , whilst at the anode was found the so-called carbonic oxide spectrum ( the appearance of which cannot be taken as trustworthy evidence of the occurrence of carbon monoxide ) .
After the discharge had been running for ( say ) half-an-hour the chlorine lines became faint .
It would seem , however , that the chlorine was still there , for a Leyden jar brought it out strongly at both electrodes .
Chloroform is apt to decompose under the action of the discharge , , for a reason which is very obscure .
Sometimes decomposition occurs in a couple of minutes , at other times the coil can be run for two or three hours without visible decomposition , and then suddenly , for no obvious cause , carbon begins to be deposited , and in a couple of minutes decomposition seems to be complete .
No effect beyond brightening the spectra was produced by increasing the strength of the discharge .
After decomposition had taken place the ordinary spectrum of hydrogen was found at the cathode , and the secondary at the anode .
This implies simply hydrogen in the tube .
( iii ) Carbon Tetrachloride.\#151 ; This substance , like chloroform , showed a. line spectrum of chlorine at the cathode , whilst carbonic oxide bands appeared at the anode .
There was no decomposition with deposition of carbon .
( iv ) Silicon Tetrachloride.\#151 ; At first there was a bright continuous spectrum Mr. G. Stead .
Anode and Cathode [ Mar. 21 at both poles , but after about a minute silicon lines ( with faint chlorine ) appeared at the anode , and bright chlorine lines , but no silicon , at the cathode .
( v ) Stannic Chloride.\#151 ; The anode showed a line spectrum of tin , whilst at the cathode the same spectrum appeared , but accompanied by chlorine lines .
Stannic chloride thus behaves much more like the tetrachlorides of carbon and silicon than a metallic chloride .
This is strictly in accordance with chemical evidence , for the product of the action of water on stannic chloride is not a basic hydroxide but an acid\#151 ; stannic acid , analogous to silicic and carbonic acid .
( vi ) Benzene.\#151 ; No separation could be obtained of the hydrogen , which showed faintly on both sides of the plate .
Initially both electrodes showed the Swan bands with traces of the carbonic oxide spectrum , but the former was replaced by the latter very rapidly ( say in 30 seconds ) at the cathode , whilst a similar change took place more slowly ( in about 10 minutes ) at the anode .
Carbon was deposited in large quantities on the walls of the tube and on the electrodes .
( vii ) Chlorobenzene.\#151 ; This , like benzene , showed no separation of the hydrogen .
Chlorine lines appeared rather faintly at the ' cathode , but the anode gave no indication of their presence .
Both sides of the plate showed bright carbonic oxide bands , and there were traces of the Swan spectrum at the positive pole at first .
Decomposition took place very readily , with deposition of carbon .
( viii ) Carbon Disulphide.\#151 ; When the coil was run in the ordinary way with a hammer break the carbonic oxide spectrum appeared at both electrodes , with traces of the Swan spectrum at first .
The vapour decomposed very easily and blackened the walls of the tube .
If , however , a Wehnelt interrupter were substituted for the hammer break , so that a very bright discharge was obtained , at the cathode the carbonic oxide spectrum still remained , whilst at the anode it was replaced by the band spectrum of sulphur .
Further , on reversing the coil , the spectra did not change suddenly .
It is worthy of note that with the Wehnelt interrupter no carbon was deposited on the walls of the tube .
On the contrary , a deposit obtained by using the hammer break could be gradually removed by employing a Wehnelt interrupter .
This is doubtless associated with the endothermic character of carbon disulphide .
( ix ) Hydrogen Sulphide.\#151 ; The gas was prepared by warming pure barium sulphide ( Kahlbaum ) with dilute hydrochloric acid .
With the hammer break the positive pole showed the sulphur band 1911.1 Spectra of Various Gases and Vapours .
397 spectrum for about half a second after the coil was turned on , hut it was very rapidly replaced by the spectrum of hydrogen .
The negative pole gave the hydrogen spectrum always , and the difference between the anode and cathode was that which is characteristic of pure hydrogen .
If the discharge were now stopped , and the tube allowed to " rest " for at least half a minute , then , on turning on the coil , the sulphur bands again flashed out for an instant at the anode .
Apparently this could be repeated indefinitely .
If a strong discharge were sent through the tube by making use of the 'W'ehnelt interrupter , the sulphur bands appeared permanently at the anode , whilst at the cathode hydrogen occurred as before .
The spectra did not change quite suddenly when the coil was reversed .
( x ) Sulphur Dioxide.\#151 ; At the negative pole a line spectrum was observed , which was found to be identical with that obtained when a Leyden jar discharge is sent through sulphur vapour at low pressure .
The light at the positive pole was bright blue in colour ; it resolved into a continuous spectrum occupying the region between the yellow and the violet .
There seemed no ground , however , for identifying it with the continuous spectrum given by oxygen .
( xi ) Hydrogen Bromide.\#151 ; The gas was prepared by running first a little water and then pure bromine into an exhausted bulb containing red phosphorus .
It was then passed through red phosphorus , calcium chloride , and phosphorus pentoxide .
Hydrogen bromide did not behave at all as would be expected from analogy with hydrogen chloride .
There was , in fact , little separation of the spectra at all , bromine and hydrogen lines being bright at both electrodes .
The gas decomposed quite easily and the bromine disappeared .
It seemed possible that the anomalous behaviour of hydrogen bromide was associated with its rapid decomposition under the influence of the discharge , and arrangements were therefore made to allow of a continuous flow of the gas through the tube .
This was accomplished by means of the apparatus shown in fig. 2 .
The discharge tube was made as symmetrical as possible so that there should be no appreciable difference of pressure between the two electrodes .
The gas to the left of the tap ( fig. 2 ) was at a pressure approximating to atmospheric , and it was allowed to stream through the fine capillary .
After sweeping past the electrodes it was absorbed mainly by solid potash , the residue being taken up by charcoal and liquid air .
At pressures of the order of 1 cm .
it was found easy to obtain the normal separation , i.e. hydrogen chiefly at the cathode and bromine mainly at the anode .
At pressures of about OT cm .
or less separation could not be obtained , probably because the rate of flow was too small .
Mr. G. Stead .
Anode and Cathode [ Mar. 21 , Fig. 2 .
( xii ) Hydrogen Iodide.\#151 ; This gas was generated and purified in a manner analogous to that employed for hydrogen bromide , and was found to exhibit the same anomalous behaviour .
There can be little doubt that the cause is the same in the two cases , and that separation would be obtained with hydrogen iodide , provided that a sufficient rate of flow was kept up .
( xiii ) Ethyl Bromide.\#151 ; At first the Swan spectrum was seen at both poles , accompanied chiefly at the cathode by the spectra of bromine and hydrogen .
After a few seconds the Swan bands at the negative pole were replaced by carbonic oxide , and the same tendency was observable at the anode , except that the time required for the change was considerably greater .
This time depends on the ipitial pressure .
After the change the bromine , lines began to disappear , apparently owing to absorption of the bromine .
Finally the carbonic oxide spectrum appeared at both poles , accompanied by hydrogen at the cathode .
Carbon was deposited gradually on the walls of the tube .
( xiv ) Methyl Iodide.\#151 ; At first the cathode showed hydrogen and iodine lines , and the anode iodine only .
In a short time the iodine disappeared from the cathode , whilst carbonic oxide became visible at the anode .
Carbon was deposited on the walls of the tube .
That the iodine really showed a preference for the anode was demonstrated by taking a symmetrical tube ( fig. 3 ) provided with mercury electrodes .
On Fig. 3 .
passing the discharge sublimates of mercury formed on the walls near the electrodes , and after about half-an-hour 's running the sublimate close to the 1911 .
] Spectra of Various Gases and Vapours .
399 anode was brick red in colour ( due to mercuric iodide ) , whilst the one near the anode was but little changed .
A similar experiment was tried with hydriodic acid , but in this case both sublimates became brick-red in colour .
( xv ) Cyanogen.\#151 ; The gas was generated by heating a dry mixture of mercuric chloride and potassium cyanide , and dried over calcium chloride and phosphorus pentoxide .
Owing to the very rapid polymerisation of cyanogen it is most troublesome to work with , as the paracyanogen formed is deposited on the walls of the tube and renders them opaque .
In the first experiment , it was found that the spectrum was the same all along the positive column .
Hence , in subsequent work , an " end-on " tube was employed , which obviated the difficulty due to polymerisation .
When the coil was turned on , the characteristic cyanogen bands appeared for a few seconds at both poles , but were soon replaced by the spectra of nitrogen and carbonic oxide on both sides of the plate .
The positive pole spectrum of nitrogen appeared at the anode , and the negative pole spectrum at the cathode .
( xvi ) Hydrocyanic Acid.\#151 ; At the cathode there were bright hydrogen lines and faint cyanogen bands , whilst at the anode the cyanogen spectrum was bright and that of hydrogen faint .
Hence , the hydrogen showed a preference for the cathode , and the cyanogen group for the anode ; in other words hydrogen cyanide behaved in a manner precisely similar to that of its analogue hydrogen chloride .
General Remarks.\#151 ; It has been found that , whereas in hydrogen chloride the chlorine goes to the anode , in chloroform , carbon tetrachloride , etc. , hydrogen and chlorine both appear at the negative electrode .
These facts , at first sight contradictory , are in reality exactly what is to be expected from chemical evidence , if the appearance of a spectrum at a particular pole be in any way associated with the electro-chemical character of the atoms in question .
In hydrochloric acid chlorine is a typical electro-negative element , and carries a charge of opposite sign to that of the hydrogen .
Chloroform and carbon tetrachloride , on the other hand , are formed by the direct replacement of hydrogen in methane by chlorine .
Hence , it seems likely that in these compounds chlorine carries a charge of the same sign as that of the hydrogen which it replaces , i.e. a positive charge .
When we come to chlorobenzene , the evidence obtainable from chemistry that the chlorine is behaving as an electro-positive element is very much stronger .
Thus , if a monosubstitution product of benzene be nitrated , the particular isomeride obtained depends on the character of the first substituting group .
When the latter is of an electro- 400 Anode and Cathode Spectra of Various Gases and Vapours .
negative character , the resulting disubstitution product is chiefly meta ; if , on the other hand , it is of an electro-positive nature , the principal product is para .
For instance , nitrobenzene yields on nitration meta-dinitrobenzene , whereas aniline gives para-nitraniline .
If now chlorobenzene be nitrated , the chief product is para-nitrochlorobenzene .
and not the meta-compound .
Hence , the chlorine behaves like the group , and not like the group ; in other words , it is functioning as an electro-positive element , and not as an electro-negative one .
This would seem to be as strong as it is possible for chemical evidence to be .
Stannic chloride and silicon tetrachloride also give the results to be expected on chemical grounds .
Hence , the fact that chlorine goes to the cathode in chlorobenzene , etc. , so far from disproving the idea that the appearance of an element at a particular electrode is associated with its electro-chemical character , affords a very strong indication of the general correctness of this view .
Again , in the case of carbon disulphide and hydrogen sulphide , the sulphur appeared only at the anode , whereas in sulphur dioxide a sulphur spectrum was seen only at the cathode .
Sulphur is electro-negative to hydrogen and carbon , but electro-positive to oxygen .
There seems good reason to conclude that , as in the case of liquid electrolysis , electro-positive elements tend to appear at the negative pole , and vice versed .
This , of course , does not necessarily mean that conduction in gases is purely electrolytic ( [ i.e. subject to Faraday 's laws ) .
Indeed , the evidence from other sources against such a view is overwhelming .
But because pure electrolysis cannot occur , it is not justifiable to assume that the electrochemical character of the elements has no influence on the distribution of spectra in a discharge tube .
On the other hand , since many elementary gases show different spectra at the two electrodes , and since any explanation of the electrolytic type is difficult in this case , it seems probable that there are other factors involved .
It appears to me probable that the difference in potential gradient and temperature at the two electrodes must not be lost sight of in framing an hypothesis to account for the facts described in this paper .
Summary.\#151 ; The examination of a considerable number of gases and vapours has shown that the spectra of electro-negative elements tend to appear at the anode , whilst the spectra of electro-positive elements show a preference for the cathode .
The explanation of these facts is most likely to be found in\#151 ; ( i ) The difference in potential gradient and temperature at the two electrodes .
( ii ) The electro-chemical properties of the elements concerned .
On Parametric Integrals and the Theory of Fourier .
401 In conclusion , I wish to express my most sincere thanks to Professor Sir J. J. Thomson , at whose suggestion this research was undertaken , and who has throughout given much encouragement by showing a never-failing interest in the progress of the work .
On a Class of Parametric Integrals and their Application in the Theory of Fourier Series .
By W. H. Young , Sc. I ) .
, F.R.S. ( Received April 19 , \#151 ; Read June 29 , 1911 .
) S 1 .
The theorem commonly known as Parseval 's Theorem , which , in its latest form , as extended by Fatou , * asserts that if / and g are two functions whose squares are summable , and whose Fourier constants are an , bn and un , fin , then the series ^ ^Oao " P S ( cin^n " P bn fin ) n = 1 converges absolutely and has for its sum 1 f* - f(x)g(x)d must he regarded as one of the most important results in the whole of the theory of Fourier series .
I have recently , in the * Proceedings ' of this Society and elsewhere , had occasion to illustrate its usefulness , as well as that of certain analogous results to which I have called attention .
They may be said , indeed , to have reduced the question of the convergence of Fourier series to the second plane .
If we know that a trigonometrical series is a Fourier series , it is in a great variety of cases , embracing even some of the less usual ones , as well as those which ordinarily present themselves , all that we require .
It has seemed to me , therefore , worth while to add another to the list of these results .
This is the main object of the present paper , in which it is shown that if one of the functions has its ( l+j ?
)th power summable and the other its ( 1 + l/ p)th power summable , where p is any positive quantity , however small , then the above theorem is true with this modification , provided only the series in question is summed in the Cesaro way .
In particular , the equality always holds in the ordinary sense whenever the series does not oscillate .
* Fatou , " Series Trigonometriques et Series de Taylor , " ' Acta Mathematical 1905 , vol. 30 .
\gt ;

