563 On the Existence of Permanent Forms among the Chromosomes of the First Maiotic Division Certain By J. E. S. Moore , A.R.C.S. , F.L.S. , Director of the Cancer Research Laboratories , University of Liverpool , and George Arnold .
( Communicated by J. Bretland Farmer , F.R.S. Received December 13 , 1905 , \#151 ; Read January 18 , 1906 .
) [ Plates 24 and 25 .
] Many cytological investigators have drawn attention to the peculiar forms assumed by the heterotypical aggregates of chromosomes , or , as we have lately termed them , the Synaptic Geminif of the first maiotic division .
It was indeed the striking peculiarities presented by the forms assumed by these bodies , and the comparative ease with which they can be distinguished from the true chromosomes of pre- and post-maiotic mitoses , which led Professor FarmerJ and one of us some years ago to make a list of the different forms we encountered in different animals and plants .
We utilised this comparison in establishing what was at that time by no means clear , namely , that in regard to the maiotic divisions we are dealing with an identical process throughout both animals and plants .
In the note referred to and in subsequent publications by other authors , the view has been taken that the adult gemini ( heterotype chromosomes ) are to be regarded as capable of assuming any of the forms which two flexible rods can take .
As for example , when bent round each other ; lying parallel to each other ; associated together in the form of a cross ; joined end to end in the form of a ring ; and so on .
The rarer forms , such as tetrads , being accounted for by supposing that the four-fold figure results from a thickening or clubbing of the ends of the associated chromosomes thus:\#151 ; * ts .
In many instances where tetrads are found this is undoubtedly the explanation of their form .
Thus the possible modes of association between two flexible rods , together with the effects of alteration in their form , and the action of the spindle fibres , have hitherto been regarded by ourselves and others as sufficient to account for the great variety of aspect which the maiotic gemini are found to present .
* The title of the paper , as originally communicated and read , was " On the Constancy of Form among the Synaptic Gemini ( Heterotype Chromosomes ) in Certain Animals .
" t Moore and Embleton , " On the Synapsis in Amphibia " ( preceding paper ) .
X Farmer and Moore , " On the Essential Similarities existing between the Heterotype Nuclear Divisions in Animals and Plants , " ' Anat .
Anzeiger , ' 1895 .
564 Messrs. J. E. S. Moore and G. Arnold .
Existence [ Dec. 13 , In .
later years several authors have drawn attention to the obvious difference in size exhibited between one and another of the gemini on the same spindle .
And not infrequently one or more of the gemini , under the title micro-chromosome or accessory chromosome , have been supposed to play an individual and important part in matters connected with hereditary transmission and the determination of sex.* * * S Our attention has latterly been redirected to the exact nature of the first maiotic ( heterotype ) division , owing to the fact that this form of mitosis has been found to occur during the development of malignant growths in man.f In 1903 , in conjunction with Professor Fanner , we were able , from an extended series of observations , to elaborate a general scheme of the maiotic process which appears to hold good throughout the higher animals and plants .
: } : More recently we have dealt in detail over again and extended our observations upon the maiotic process in mammals and amphibia ; S this revision having become apparently necessary , owing to the mutually divergent accounts of the maiotic process recently published by Strasburger and his pupils in relation to certain plants.|j A re-examination of mammals and amphibia has however confirmed our original standpoint with respect to the maiotic process in these vertebrates , and a similar confirmation has been given for plants in the case of Dictyotacese by Lloyd-Williams , H Gregory , and others .
During the course of these revisions we have been led once more to the questions associated with the forms assumed by the gemini of the first maiotic division , and it appears to us now that the existing conceptions regarding this matter have become inadequate to meet the actual facts of the case .
We do not at present profess in any way to have reached a final standpoint in our conceptions of the nature of the different forms of gemini , but the phenomena that have been brought to light are so remarkable in themselves , and from the point of view of theoretical developments so peculiarly attractive , that we * For example , see Strasburger , " Typische und Allotypische Kernteilung .
, " ' ahrb .
f. Wiss .
Botanik , ' vol. 42 ; O. Rosenberg , op .
cit. , and others .
+ Farmer , Moore , and Walker , " On the Resemblances between the Cells of Malignant Growths and those of Normal Reproductive Tissues , ' ' 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1903 .
t Farmer and Moore , " New Researches concerning the Heterotype Divisions in Animals and Plants , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1903 ; Farmer and Moore , " On the Maiotic Phase ( Reduction Divisions ) in Animals and Plants , " 'Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , ' vol. 48 .
S Moore and Embleton , " On the Synapsis in Amphibia " ( loc. cit. ) ; Moore and Walker , " On the Maiotic Phenomena in Mammalia , " 'Thomson Yates Reports , ' University Press , Liverpool , 1906 .
|| Strasburger ( loc. cit. ) .
See also Overton , Miyake , and Allen , ' Jahrb .
f. Wiss .
Botanik , ' vol. 42 .
IT J. Lloyd-Williams , " Studies in the Dictyotacese , I and II , " ' Ann. Bot. , ' 1904 .
1905 .
] of Permanent Forms among Chromosomes , etc. 565 desire to publish them in the hope that other cytologists may be able to throw fresh light upon the facts which we have already ascertained .
If the testes of Triton be examined at .
the time when the first maiotic division is abundant , groups of dividing nuclei may be found presenting the appearance given in fig. 1 ( Plate 24 ) .
The drawing is an accurate representation of a field of such dividing cells , and upon examination it may be found that the gemini ( heterotype chromosomes ) lie either upon young spindles or in groups within cells where the nuclear membrane has only lately disappeared .
If in such a field we consider some special form assumed by the gemini , such as the U , or oc ; it will be seen that it is generally possible to find this form in any individual cell we like to examine .
So also if we take another conspicuous class of gemini which may be represented thus :\#151 ; \#163 ; ) , we again find that this type also can be traced in almost any individual cell we please .
If for the time being we confine our attention to these two forms , and pass from the particular field represented in fig. 1 to a large number of similar fields , the conclusion is quickly forced upon us that the two forms in question are really always present in all first maiotic spindle figures .
We soon see in fact , that the instances where one or other is not conspicuous , are due to the particular gemini being turned in such a manner that they become foreshortened in the line of vision , or are obscured by other gemini , either totally or in part .
But besides the two forms of gemini above considered there are in Triton others .
Thus we find , as cells in fig. 1 will show , gemini which present the appearance of two rods either lying parallel to one another , or crossed over one another , thus:\#151 ; " X. Again , there is a form consisting of a bent figure with symmetrical thickenings which form one aspect may be represented thus:\#151 ; ( } .
Another form consists of an asymmetrical annulus with unequal sides , thus:\#151 ; j)\gt ; .
While , lastly , we have a long and evenly thick ring , thus:\#151 ; Q. In this way it will be seen that in the first maiotic division of Triton there are to be found six varieties of gemini , and upon looking into the matter , we are led to conclude that all these six varieties co-exist in every instance of the first maiotic division .
In some cases , however , it is possible to see more than one representative of any particular type in one and the same cell , and upon counting the maximum representation of any type found in a particular element , we find in Triton this number is two .
Taking each of the six classes or types of gemini in turn , we find that cells may be found that show two representatives of every one of the six classes .
566 Messrs. J. E. S. Moore and G. Arnold .
Existence [ Dec. 13 , In Triton the number of the pre-maiotic chromosomes is 24 .
These in the synapsis unite to form 12 gemini , and consequently we are driven to the conclusion that in the first maiotio spindle figure there exists a pair of gemini belonging to each of the six different types .
The fact that the varieties are constant in the early spindle figure , really in itself precludes the possibility of the different forms having anything to do with the fortuitous manner in which the gemini may become attached to the spindle fibres , and this indication is enforced to the point of proof by the further observation , which can be readily made , that all six varieties of gemini are present in cells before the nuclear membrane has disappeared , that is to say , before the spindle fibres have ever acted on them .
In fig. 2 we have a drawing of five cells in three of which the nuclear membrane is not yet ruptured , but in each of these three cells representatives of the different classes of gemini are as clearly to be discerned as they are on the early spindle figures .
abode g h Man Triton .
sp. ( a ) 2 ( b ) Diagram showing the Forms of Heterolytic Gemini in various Animals .
Total number Total number of gemini .
of gemini .
Man ... ... ... ... .
16 Triton , sp ... ... .
12 Eat ... ... ... ... .
16 Cockroach ... ... .
16 Another feature which should be noted is the fact that we do not encounter transitional forms passing from one form of the gemini to another ; there is 1905 .
] of Permanent Forms among Chromosomes , etc. 567 no half-way set of gemini between the forms a and b given in the table on p. 566 , or between c and d , e and / , and so on .
The gemini in Triton , as we believe is the case in every other instance of the first maiotic division , are produced by the conjugation of premaiotic ( somatic ) chromosomes in pairs during the synaptic rest ; * and since there are 24 premaiotic chromosomes in the particular instance of Triton , it follows that there must be only four individual chromosomes which can unite with each other to form the two gemini belonging to each of the six types .
The above results , based upon a study of the gemini in the first maiotic divisions in Triton , are interesting in themselves , but they immediately raise the further question as to whether the order here observed is simply a curious instance , or an individual expression of a wider law ; on account of this we have studied in a similar manner the first maiotic division in man , rats , and Periplaneta ; that is to say , in two more typical vertebrates and a representative arthropod .
In the testes of rats the first maiotic division occurs in groups of cells , and it is by no means difficult to bring under observation in a short time thirty or forty instances of the early spindle and late prophase .
In this we have material amply sufficient to arrive at a decision upon the matters with which we are concerned .
Fig. 3 is a drawing of a portion of a tubule from the testes of a piebald rat .
It shows the outer wall of the tubule with some premaiotic nuclei and three dividing cells belonging to the first maiotic ( heterotype ) mitosis .
In these it will be seen that the gemini are of very different forms , and that as in Triton the same forms are repeated in different individual cells .
Analysis of a large number of similar cells reveals the fact that in this particular example there are again six varieties of gemini ( see table , p. 566 ) .
In the rat , however , instead of the premaiotic chromosomes being 24 in number as in Triton , there are 32 ; consequently we shall have to ascertain the relative numbers of the different types .
Further it will be seen that the six types present in the rat are not all the same as those catalogued for Triton ( table , p. 566 ) .
It will indeed be obvious from this that only four of the Amphibian varieties are represented in the mammal ; to these four two new forms of gemini are added .
In regard to the type h in the table , p. 566 , it is obvious that this particular form of the gemini might be regarded as an opened out y , which in this case appears as a straight rod ; but although this is so , the fact remains that the * Farmer and Moore , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1903 , loc. ; Farmer and Moore , ' Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , ' vol. 48 , loc. cit. ; Moore and Embleton , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1905 , loc. cit. ; Moore and Walker , 'Thomson Yates Reports , ' loc. cit. 568 Messrs. J. E. S. Moore and G. Arnold .
Existence [ Dec. 13 , types h and / are present together in rats in such a manner as to suggest that they are really distinct entities .
In rats we have said that the number of the pre-synaptic chromosomes is 32 and the number of gemini is 16 .
These latter bodies are grouped into six varieties , and consequently the number of each variety in rats must be unequal .
If in rats in a large number of division figures the maximum number of all the six varieties of gemini are counted , as was done in Triton , the results are as follows : a\#151 ; 4 , b\#151 ; 2 , c\#151 ; 4 , e\#151 ; 2 , / \#151 ; 2 , h\#151 ; 2.* Upon comparing the above results with similar results in man we find that here the varieties remain the same as in rats , but the relative numbers of these varieties are again changed ( see fig. 6 , Plate 25 , and table , p. 566 ) , the arrangement in man being as follows : \#151 ; 2 , b\#151 ; 2 , c\#151 ; 6 , e\#151 ; 2 , / \#151 ; 2 , h\#151 ; 2 .
Por any one species the numbers of types of gemini , so far as we have gone , appears to be constant , and the same types are retained in the case of fairly remote genera , such as Homo and Mus ; but in these genera the relative numbers of the different kinds of gemini may vary with , or independently of , the number of the premaiotic chromosomes .
Passing from the above vertebrate examples to the old arthropodean type Periplaneta we find , as fig. 5 and the table on p. 566 will show , that here the number of the types of gemini is reduced from six to five .
Upon consideration of the table it will be seen also that three of the amphibian and mammalian types are retained , but no new type is added , and two of the types common to both the other groups are altogether wanting .
In Periplaneta there are 32 premaiotie chromosomes and 16 gemini , so that here , as in the case of man and rats , the number of similar forms must be unequal .
Counting the maximum number of any type in a number of cells , as was done in the former cases , we get the relative number of the five types in each cell as follows : a\#151 ; 4 , b\#151 ; 4 , / \#151 ; 2 , g\#151 ; 4 , h\#151 ; 2 .
The possible bearing of the above observations upon the various existing theories of hereditary transmission , and especially in relation to the Mendelian hypothesis , will be obvious enough ; but we feel a great reluctance at the present time in any way to augment the obscuration of the facts by putting forward crude theoretical anticipations .
What appears to us of first importance is the recognition of the actual existence of permanent structural types in the gemini of different forms .
Secondly , it would appear that in any particular form the number of gemini * It is an interesting and important fact that the number of premaiotic ( somatic ) chromosomes is not the same in rats as in mice .
In the latter the number is 24 .
1905 .
] of Permanent Forms among Chromosomes , etc. 569 of each type have a constant numerical relationship to each other .
Thirdly , so far as the investigation has at present gone , certain types of gemini appear to be common to all the widely sundered forms examined .
Still further , it will be seen that the number of different types of gemini is less in the oldest evolutionary form Periplaneta .
Whether this last indication will be found to hold good is a matter upon which it would at present be useless to speculate ; but the fact itself opens up a line of future inquiry which is certainly full of possibilities .
It seems to us , moreover , that it should be emphasised that both in regard to the permanent types of gemini and their numerical relationships , as well as with respect to the numerical constancy in the chromosomes themselves and their periodical reductions , we are face to face with constant arrangements in the parts of the unit of living substance ( the cell ) which seem to underlie and to be quite independent of those external interactions that are supposed to have helped to build the grosser features of living things .
With regard to the different types of gemini , it should further be pointed out , that the existence of these types implies substantive differences between the chromosomes that can unite to form the different kinds .
It must be remembered that each of the gemini arises through an association of optically similar premaiotic chromosomes , but that at the time the nuclear membrane is about to disappear these associations have assumed different forms .
They cannot do this unless they are of a different nature .
The fact that there exist in those nuclei which we have examined groups of similar gemini shows that there must be sets of premaiotic chromosomes which in the synapsis can conjugate with each other , but not with the remaining individuals .
The present position may be in part summed up as follows:\#151 ; In the fertilised egg the paternal and maternal chromosomes divide independently on the spindle of the first segmentation figure .
And they go on dividing in a similarly independent manner throughout the soma , and during the premaiotic history of the reproductive elements themselves .
In the synapsis which ushers in the maiotic phase the chromosomes unite in pairs , and in those cases we have as yet examined only certain individual chromosomes are capable of uniting with one another to form differing group of gemini ; in each of these groups the number of gemini is more than one , and it varies in the different species hitherto observed .
Thus whether the conjugation of the chromosomes in the synapsis is really the final consummation , after many generations long delayed , of the copulatory intentions of the paternal and maternal elements , is a matter upon which there is as yet no actually conclusive evidence .
570 Existence of Permanent Forms among Chromosomes , etc. DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
Plate 24 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Groups of cells from the testis of a Triton .
They are all in phases of the first maiotie ( heterotype ) division , and similar forms of gemini ( heterotype chromosomes ) are to be seen in numbers of different cells , as at c , d , f. Fig. 2.\#151 ; Cells from the testis of a Triton , all in the late prophase of the first maiotic division .
In three of the cells the nuclear membrane is still present ; but the gemini have already assumed the same forms as those represented in fig. 1 , b , c , d , g , f. Fig. 3.\#151 ; Cells from the testis of a rat , showing similar gemini in the different cells , fi ti .
Plate 25 .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Cell from testis of a rat .
Early phase of first maiotic spindle , showing pairs of different gemini , a , b , c , d , e. Fig. 5.\#151 ; Group cells from the testis of Periplaneta , showing similar gemini in each of the three different cells , a , b , f , g , h. Fig. 6.\#151 ; Cells from the testis of man , showing similar gemini in the three cells at a , c , e , h. Moore and Arnold .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. vol. Plate 24 .
\#163 ; y x / \#166 ; f i\gt ; r/ \#171 ; /(j , ~ S ' j '/ i / \ ~N ; * \ / \ Lr " W. kl Fiu .
3Moore and .
Roy .
Soc. ProcB .
77 , Plate 25 .
Fig. 6 .

