44 The Colours and Pigments of Flowers with Special Reference to Genetics .
By M. Wheldale .
( Communicated by W. Bateson , F.R.S. Received October 31 , 1908 , \#151 ; Read \#187 ; January 28 , 1909 .
) Investigations , of which the following is some account , have been undertaken with a view to being of assistance in the interpretation of the phenomena observed in the inheritance of flower-colour .
An attempt has been made to classify , of necessity roughly , the pigments , more especially those soluble in water , found in flowering plants , and at the same time to ascertain whether there is any connection between the genetic behaviour of pigments and their chemical reactions and constitution .
On the basis of -this classification it was thought that , at some future time , further investigations might be carried out in greater detail among the various classes of pigments .
This account deals more with yellow pigments than with red ; attention was first directed to the yellow group , because of a certain correlation between reds and yellows observed in the inheritance of flower-colour in Antirrhinum majus , the relationship suggesting that a greater knowledge of yellows might be useful in classifying the reds .
No detailed examination has been made of any one pigment , but merely a general survey of the -colouring matters of genera from various natural orders .
A classification in outline of the pigments , other than chlorophyll , found in flowering plants has been given by many authorities , * but perhaps a repetition will not be out of place here , as follows:\#151 ; A. Pigments in solution in the cell-sap.*f* ( 1 ) Soluble red-purple-blue pigments known as that this term includes several different classes of pigments seems probable when observations are made as regards their behaviour towards various reagents .
The sub-classes will be described later .
( 2 ) Soluble yellow pigments known as Again , various sub- classes , to be described later , may be made according to their reactions towards reagents .
* General classifications and properties of pigments , as far as they are known , are given by Czapek ( 4 ) and Zimmermann ( 13 ) .
+ Said to be occasionally precipitated or crystallised out on natural concentration of the .cell-sap .
46 Miss M. Wheldale .
Colours and Pigments of [ Oct. 31 , from chlorophyll ; in unpigmented genera , nivalis , for instance , or in pigmented ( anthocyanic ) genera such as many with white flowers , the petals turn bright canary yellow with ammonia .
The inheritance of colour in Antirrhinum ( Wheldale ( 12 ) ) has led to the suggestion that anthocyanin is possibly a compound of such a glucoside-like body with a reddening substance .
The original type of Antirrhinum has magenta ( anthocyanin ) flowers.* Loss of the reddening substance , which may be represented by a Mendelian factor ( M ) , gives a variety bearing ivory-white flowers containing no pigment ( except in the palate and hairs ) , but a glucoside-like body giving the reactions with acids , alkalis , and lead acetate described above .
Further loss of a substance , again represented by a factor ( I ) , from the glucoside-like body in the superficial cells of the lips gives a yellow xantheic pigment , and the variety thus bears yellow flowers .
Loss of yellow pigment , represented by yet another factor ( Y ) , gives an albino , containing no pigment and no glucoside-like body .
Local decomposition produces the same xantheic pigment on the palate and in hairs on the inner surface of the tube in all varieties except the albino .
The albino may carry I or M , or both , since these factors are invisible unless the fundamental colour Y is present .
Moreover , the reddening factor can exist with Y , the decomposition product , giving a mixed colour , crimson .
Each variety may breed true or may throw itself and one or more varieties below it in the scale of colour , according as it is homo- or heterozygous in the various factors .
Magenta can throw all varieties ; crimson can throw yellow and white ; ivory , yellow and white ; and yellow , white only .
At this point it is interesting , perhaps , to give views regarding the constitution of anthocyanin , based on results obtained from a totally different kind of investigation .
Overton ( 9 ) found that in plants supplied artificially with excess of sugar and other carbohydrates there is a correlated increase in the production of anthocyanin , and he concludes that the latter , in many cases , is a glucoside compound of a tannic acid .
Molisch ( 8 ) and Heise ( 6 ) .are also of the opinion that some red sap-pigments are glucosidal in nature .
Tannin is by no means always present in plants containing anthocyanin ; the magenta pigment of Antirrhinum gives a tannin reaction , but no tannin has been found in the albinos .
A similar range of colour to that found in Antirrhinum , i.e. , various shades of purple or magenta and crimson , together with ivory , yellow , and sometimes white , also occurs in Althaea rosea , Azalea , Dahlia variabilis , Dianthus .Caryo'phyllus , Helichrysum bracteatum , Linaria , Nemesia , Phlox Drummondii , * With yellow pigment locally on the palate and in hairs on the inner surface of the tube .
1908 .
] Flowers ivith Special Reference to Genetics .
and Rosa .
It is probable that the inheritance of^ flower-colour will be found to be similar in these genera .
The inheritance of colour in Lathyrus and Matthiola ( Bateson , Punnett and Saunders ( 1 ) ) differs from Antirrhinum , in that two factors ( C and B ) are required to produce colour , and the loss of either gives a white containing only a glucoside-like substance .
An additional factor , B , gives the purple varieties .
A similar range of colour to that in Lathyrus , shades of blue or purple and red , together with white , is shown by Campanula , Digitalis purpurea , Iberis , Lobelia , Nemophilainsignis , Pisum , and many others ; no xantheic variety occurs in this series .
It is evident , then , that there are two classes of anthocyanin as regards the .
series of varieties to which each can give rise ; in one case the decomposition possibly of the glucoside-like constituent gives a yellow xantheic form , and in the other case no such decomposition is possible , and no yellow variety exists .
The close relationship between xantheic pigments , the glucoside-like bodies , from which they may be derived , and the anthocyanin , of which these bodies are themselves possibly constituents , is suggested also by the fact that yellow xantheic varieties almost always have an anthocyanic type .
This connection is well exemplified among the genera of the Oompositse .
Usually plastid pigments in addition are present in this order , but these may be disregarded for the moment .
Yellow varieties of Coreopsis , Chrysanthemum carinatum , Dahlia variabilis , Heliclirysum bracteatum , contain xanthein , while the type has anthocyanin ; other genera , Zinnia elegans , Caillardia , Hieracium have anthocyanin of the kind which gives no xantheic varieties , while , finally , Calendula officinalis , Helianthus annuus , spp .
, and Senecio spp .
have no xanthein and no anthocyanin .
When we consider the behaviour of anthocyanin towards such substances as acids , alkalis , certain salts , etc. , we find this term includes at least several groups of pigments .
Two classes have been described by Weigert(ll ) , and termed " weinrot " and " rubenrot " respectively .
The former is soluble in both alcohol and water , giving with basic lead acetate blue-grey or blue-green precipitates , and with concentrated sulphuric acid a bright red colour .
It is found in the leaves of Vitis , Ampelopsis Rhus typhina , Cornus sanguinea , and others .
The latter , rubenrot , Weigert found in leaves of the Amarantacece and Chenopodiacece ( vulgaris , Lresine , Atriplex ) , and in fruits of Phytolacca decandra .
Though readily soluble in water , the pigment is insoluble in alcohol ; with basic lead acetate it gives a red precipitate , with sulphuric acid and with ammonia a deep violet , bui with Colours and Pigments of , etc. 45- B. Pigments associated with specialised protoplasmic bodies\#151 ; chromo-plastids\#151 ; the colour in this case being usually yellow , orange-yellow , orange , , or orange-red .
Insolubility in water appears to be a constant characteristic of this group .
Two well-known pigments are included here :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Carotin\#151 ; a hydrocarbon of definite and characteristic properties .
According to Zimmermann ( 13 ) , it is insoluble in water , almost so in alcohol , slightly soluble in ether , more readily in benzine , and most so in chloroform and carbon bisulphide .
It occurs naturally and can be obtained artificially in crystalline form , and is microchemically recognised by certain reagents ; with concentrated sulphuric acid it gives an indigo-blue colour , , at first momentarily violet , and with iodine a green or greenish-blue colour .
( 2 ) Xanthin\#151 ; again , according to Zimmermann ( 13 ) , occurs in the plastid in amorphous form .
It is insoluble in water , somewhat soluble in ether , , chloroform , and benzine , but more so in alcohol .
Microchemically xanthin can be recognised by giving with concentrated sulphuric acid a blue colour , at first momentarily green , and with iodine a green colour .
In addition to the above , there appear to be other plastic pigments , which do not give a blue colour with sulphuric acid , but a yellow or brown .
Anthocyanin .
Classification of the soluble red-purple-blue pigments has always been a difficult problem , but there seems to be evidence that anthocyanin is a general term , including several different pigments .
The differentiation made here is based on the inheritance of colour in certain genera , on the sequence of flower-colour in cultivated varieties , and finally on the behaviour of red pigments towards chemical reagents .
There are present in most plants colourless or pale yellow substances , soluble in water , but insoluble in ether ; with strong acids and alkalis they give a canary-yellow colour , and a similar coloration or most frequently a precipitate of the same colour with basic lead acetate .
In some cases , .
Eschscholtzici californica(Courchet ( 3 ) ) , Argemone and yellow species of Viola , these substances crystallise from extract solutions in needle-shaped crystals aggregated in clusters or spherules ; solutions of the crystals from the above genera reduced Fehling 's solution slightly , but after prolonged boiling with dilute acid , a deep yellow substance , together with a reduction of Fehling 's solution , was obtained , suggesting the glucoside nature of the crystalline bodies .
A similar glucoside is probably present in Narcissus Tazetta ( Bidgood ( 2 ) ) .
The colour reaction with alkalis and acids is most obvious in parts free 48 Miss M. Wheldale .
Colours and Pigments of [ Oct. 31 , other bases a yellow colour .
He further distinguishes a pigment , " Malven-violett , " occurring in the leaves of Coleus Hero , Perilla avellana atropurp .
, red Brassica , and Malva sp. It is present as a compound , which , on the action of acids , produces the weinrot pigment .
In the present paper , conclusions are based upon the examination of relatively few red pigments , and even these present great complexity .
Yet , on the whole , a rough classification may be given as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
A purple anthocyanin , which is characterised by giving a deep blue or violet colour with ferrous sulphate and ferric chloride , a green colour with alkalis and a blue or blue-green precipitate with basic lead acetate .
Such a pigment is found in the deep purple and crimson varieties of Dianthus Caryophyllus , Lathyrusodoratus , Phlox Drummondii , the purple and plum varieties of Matthiola(Saunders ( 1 ) ) , purple Fuchsia , and in the berries of Atropa Belladonna and Rosa pimpinellifolia .
2 .
A purplish-red anthocyanin , corresponding probably to Weigert 's weinrot .
This pigment does not give the above reaction with iron salts ; but with alkalis a green colour and a green precipitate with basic lead acetate .
This form occurs in the magenta varieties of Antirrhinum majus , Dahlia variabilis , pale magenta and violet varieties of Phlox Drummondii , red varieties of Lathyrus odoratus , Salvia Horminum , and also in the crimson Cheiranthus Cheiri , in Tradescantia and in Rhus aromatica .
3 .
A red anthocyanin characterised by giving a red precipitate with basic lead acetate .
Two sub-groups may be further identified as\#151 ; ( a ) those giving green colour with alkalis\#151 ; red , copper , and rose varieties of Matthiola , and a red variety of Delphinium ; ( b ) those giving a reddish yellow colour with alkalis\#151 ; pink varieties of Dianthus Caryophyllus , flesh and terra-cotta varieties of Matthiola , certain scarlets of Lathyrus , salmon-rose varieties of Dianthus barbatus , Phlox Drummondii , Verbena , and the " rose doree " variety of Antirrhinum majus .
The above classes seem to show a gradual diminution in the amount of blueness present as we pass from the very blue purples of Lathyrus , through the magentas and blue-reds of Antirrhinum and Lathyrus , to end finally in such varieties as the " rose doree " Antirrhinum , from which blueness is practically absent .
The bluer form is usually the original type and the reds , as derivatives , are probably components of the original anthocyanin .
There is some indication of a connection between the chemical behaviour of the classes and their inheritance .
The purple anthocyanin appears to be that form , which , in Lathyrus and Matthiola , is given when the B factor is present in addition to C and fi .
The extreme purple is not found in Antirrhinum \ hence in the latter case , when a blueing factor is present , as in the magenta 1908 .
] Flowers with Special Reference to Genetics .
type , purplish-red anthocyanin is the ultimate form .
The red of Antirrhinum is represented by the " rose doree " type , which finds its parallel in the flesh and copper of Matthiola , certain scarlets of and the salmon-rose of Phlox Drummondii .
It is of interest to note also that in the reds of Antirrhinum and the salmon-rose of Phlox* of which several shades exist , the deeper are dominant to the paler , while in the purples , purple-reds , and magentas of .
Matthiola , Phlox , and Antirrhinum , the paler shades are dominant to the deeper .
As regards shades of one colour , a fuller investigation has been made in Antirrhinum , in which genus every shade is a definite zygotic form , and the chemical reactions of these shades are fundamentally similar though differing in degree .
The precipitates with basic lead acetate , for instance , are of varying shades of green , yet these remain unaltered on artificial concentration or dilution of the extract .
This would appear to indicate that the shade of colour was but an outward indication of some definite organic compound in the sap .
All the red pigments so far described give , with strong sulphuric acid , f bright red and yellow colours , becoming orange when mixed ; it seems possible that the red is due to the reddening factor , and the yellow to the glucoside-like constituent of the anthocyanin .
With alkalis , the reddening factor of the bluish-red turns blue and the other body yellow , the result being green , sometimes rapidly fading to yellow .
Basic lead acetate gives blue-green or green precipitates , due again to the same mixture .
The scarlet pigment of some genera\#151 ; Lobelia Phaseohis multi- Jlorus\#151 ; is again different , in that it gives a bluish colour with alkalis and a red precipitate with basic lead acetate .
With regard to natural orders and relationships , as far as these investigations have gone , it appears that the red pigments of the differ from others .
Also those of the allied orders Nydaginacece , Phytolaccaccce , and Poriulacacem ( included in the by Engler ) , form an isolated group giving reactions essentially different from any hitherto described .
Of the Papaveracece , the red pigment of Glaucium and Phosas gives a purple colour with basic lead acetate .
The red pigment of Amaranthus ( and other genera of the same order according to Weigert(ll ) ) is characterised by its insolubility in alcohol .
With concentrated sulphuric acid it gives a purple colour , with ammonia * I am indebted to Miss Killby for this information .
t Reactions are best seen by dropping acid on to the pigment on a white porcelain plate .
Mixtures of colours are thus more readily detected than in bulk in solution .
VOL. LXXXI.\#151 ; B. E Miss M. Wheldale .
Colours and Pigments of [ Oct. 31 , a reddish colour , but with other bases a clear yellow , and with basic lead acetate an orange-red precipitate .
In the stems and berries of Phytolacca decandra , the magenta and crimson flowers of and grandifiora , two pigments apparently exist .
One , insoluble in alcohol but soluble in water to a magenta solution , gives reactions on the whole similar to those given by the red pigment of The other pigment is soluble in alcohol to a crimson solution , which gives a yellow colour with acids and alkalis and a reddish precipitate with basic lead acetate .
Overton ( 9 ) is also of the opinion that anthocyanin contains several classes of pigments , of which he gives\#151 ; ( 1 ) the and Beta , ( 2 ) Papaver Phceas and other species of ( 3 ) discolor* and other Commelinacece .
The alcoholic solution of the red pigment in some genera is colourless , the colour returning on evaporation or on addition of acid .
In other cases , again , the alcoholic solution is as deeply coloured as the flowers .
It is possible that these phenomena may indicate a difference in the nature of the pigments .
Lastly , it might be well to mention that anthocyanin is said to occur in solid and crystalline states in the cell .
Many instances are cited by Molisch ( 8 ) in his work on crystalline anthocyanin .
Xantliein .
Xanthein , like anthocyanin , includes at least several pigments varying in their reactions towards acids and alkalis .
They may be classified as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
Those giving a deeper yellow , orange , or orange-red colour with acids and alkalis and similarly coloured precipitates with basic lead acetate .
Such pigments are found in yellow varieties of Althaea rosea , Antirrhinum majus , Calceolaria , Coreopsis , Dahlia Helichrysum bracteatum , Phlox Drummondii and Tagetes signata .
2 .
Those in which the yellow colour becomes paler with acids and alkalis and basic lead acetate gives , as a rule , no precipitate or a precipitate of the same colour as the pigment .
Such is the case in Mirabilis , Montbretia sp. , Nemesiastrumosa , Papaver and Portulaca 3 .
Those in which the yellow colour remains unaltered in the presence of acids and alkalis , and basic lead acetate gives a yellow precipitate , as in Mesembryanthemum pomeridianum , Verbasc If xanthe'ic pigments are derivatives of anthocyanin , the dissimilarity of the former among themselves strengthens the view that the reds , from which they are derived , are also dissimilar .
* I have not been able to detect so far any divergence in this case .
Flowers with Special Reference to Genetics .
Albinism .
It has been suggested that there are two forms of anthocyanin giving respectively two colour series , one containing a yellow xantheic variety , the other not .
Whites occur in both , and it seems probable that the term albinism should be used in a different sense when applied to each of the two series .
The extract from most white flowers ( also from flowers coloured only with plastid pigments , when these have been removed ) , gives a canary colour with strong acids and alkalis , as stated previously .
Without exception , as far as observations have gone , whites of genera having no yellow sap type , have given this yellow colour-reaction .
These whites may , without hesitation , be declared to be recessive to the red-purple-blue types , and they are albinos as regards anthocyanin .
On the other hand , in the case of Antirrhinum , Azalea and Phlox Drummondii* belonging to the series giving yellow sap-colour , whites exist which do not give the same yellow colour-reaction .
Moreover , these whites are recessive to yellow in Antirrhinum and Phlox , and are albinos as regards both anthocyanin and xanthein .
It is the ivory in this series which contains the glucoside-like body , and gives the yellow colour-reaction .
Whites giving no colour-reaction have not yet been observed in the other genera mentioned in the antliocyanic-xantheic series , though relatively few types have been examined .
It is possible that the true albino , as contrasted with ivory , is rare in commercial samples , since the albino type in Antirrhinum and Phlox has been found to set poor seed unless fertilised artificially .
What appears at first an exception to this view is the case of Jalapa .
Here we find a range of colour similar to that in Antirrhinum , i.e. , shades of magenta and crimson , together with deep and pale yellow and white .
The white ( when it does not carry a reddening factor ) is recessive to yellow , t and yet gives a colour-reaction with ammonia , etc. The explanation lies in the fact that both the yellow and red pigments in Mirabilis ( see p. 50 ) are of an entirely different nature from those in Antirrhinum and Phlox .
For the same reason , the inheritance in Portulaca grandiflora will , if worked out , doubtless prove to be similar to Mirabilis .
Shull ( 10 ) also gives the case of Verbascum Blattaria , in which a very * I am indebted to Miss Killby for the information that in Phlox the ivory type may throw both the yellow and the albino .
t I am indebted to Miss Marryat for this information from results obtained in crossbreeding of Mirabilis .
E 2 52 Miss M. Wheldale .
Colours and Pigments of [ Oct. 31 , pale form , perhaps an albino , is recessive to the full yellow .
He also states that Correns found white Polemonium to be dominant to yellow Polemonium fiavum .
If the former contained a glucoside-like body , and the latter a xanthe'ic pigment , the result might be analogous to Phlox .
As material of these genera was not available , the pigments have not been investigated , and consequently this conjecture must remain unverified for the present .
Plastid Pigments .
The plastid pigments , carotin and xanthin , are well-known substances , of which the properties and characteristics have been investigated .
Both may be present in the same plastid , when the colour is orange-yellow , orange or orange-red , and this condition is very widely distributed ; or xanthin only may be present , when the colour is yellow .
In the orange-yellow or red type the loss of the power to produce carotin in the plant may give rise to a lemon-yellow variety .
This is the case in flowers of Argemonc grandifiora , Calendula officinalis , Tagetes mains , and probably Cheiranthus Cheiriand grandifiora .
In other cultivated genera , where the type contains xanthin , this pigment appears to give rise to paler yellow varieties containing derivative plastid pigments , probably decomposition products of xanthin , and giving a yellow or brown colour with strong sulphuric acid .
At present these derivatives have not been thoroughly examined .
They are found in the pale yellow varieties of Helianthemum spp .
, Chrysanthemum in the autumn cultivated Chrysanthemum , and in Zinnia elegans .
There is evidence from cross-breeding in Cheiranthus and * that presence of carotin is dominant to its absence , that is the orange-yellow variety is dominant to the lemon-yellow .
The plastid pigment in cream varieties of Rosa , and Eschscholtzia caniculatarosea , is again different from carotin and xanthin as regards its chemical reactions .
There is evidence from cross-breeding in Lathyrus and Maithiola ( Bateson and Saunders ( 1 ) ) that cream plastid pigment is recessive to its absence , colourless plastid .
Combinations of Soluble and Plastid Pigments .
Anthocyanin and plastid pigments are frequently found together in plants .
When the red sap occurs with plastids containing both carotin and xanthin , the resulting colour is some shade of brown , crimson , or orange-red ; with plastids containing xanthin only , or some derivative product of xanthin the * I am indebted to Miss Saunders for information regarding Tropceolum .
1908 .
] Flowers with Special Reference Genetics .
resulting colour is maroon , purple , or salmon-pink .
Hence we find in cultivated genera containing plastid pigments and anthocyanin a colour series brown , crimson , or orange , purple , magenta , or salmon-pink , deep yellow and pale yellow .
Such is the case in CheiranthusChrysanthemum spp .
, anthcmum spp .
, Salpiglossis grandifiora , Tagetes and Zinnia spp .
This series differs from the anthocyanic-xanthe'ic series in one respect ; in the former the type is crimson and the purple or magenta is the derivative , whereas in the latter the purple or magenta is the type , while crimson is a derivative .
These two contrasting series cannot be better exemplified than by the two indigenous genera , Antirrhinum and Cheiranthus , and their cultivated varieties .
The wild Cheiranthus is deep yellow tinged with brown ; cultivation has produced from the original , a pale yellow type , to which the addition of anthocyanin gives purple .
The wild Antirrhinum is magenta , which , on loss of some constituent , has given a yellow xantheic type , and this gives , further , in presence of the reddening substance , a crimson .
Stress should be laid , in connection with colour , on the conception of the pigmentation of a plant as a whole .
The power to produce colour is the property of every cell of a pigmented plant ; frequently the flowers are white or show but little colour in plants which are really pigmented , as , for example , Solanum nigrum , Geranium var .
album .
In a plant having red , purple , or blue flowers , anthocyanin may invariably be detected in the vegetative parts , such as cotyledons , under surfaces of leaves , wounded or exposed areas , etc. The diffusion of colour throughout the plant is manifested in the correlation so frequently found between fruit- and seed-colour on the one hand and flower-colour on the other .
De Vries ( 5 ) gives as examples the green-flowered variety of Belladonna and the whiteflowered variety of Daphne Mezereum with yellow fruits ; also the white-flowered Linumwith yellow seeds as contrasted with the brown seeds of the blue variety .
The colour and pattern of seed-coat in ( Bateson and Saunders ( 1 ) ) and Pisum ( Lock ( 7 ) ) is also correlated with flower-colour in the same way .
Method for Examination of Pigments .
The material to be examined is ground very finely with powdered glass in a mortar , extracted with methylated spirit and filtered .
If from the colour of the residue , or from a microscopic examination , the presence of carotin be suspected , a further extraction is made with benzine or chloroform .
The alcohol extract contains the pigments soluble in water and such plastid Miss M. Wheldale .
Colours and Pigments of [ Oct. 31 , pigments as are soluble in alcohol ( chiefly xanthin ) .
After evaporation to dryness on a water-bath , the xanthin is separated by ether from the xantheic and anthocyanic pigments .
The chloroform extract contains both xanthin and carotin ; the latter can be washed free from xanthin by means of alcohol .
Details for Genera of Various Natural Orders .
The following particulars chiefly concern yellows , the reds having been dealt with in detail previously .
Aizoace.ce .
Mesembryanthemum pomeridianum has a xantheic pigment , unaffected by acids and alkalis and precipitated by basic lead acetate .
Amaryllidacece .
Alstrcemeria aurantiacahas plastids containing carotin and xanthin ; anthocyanin is present in addition .
Caryophyllacece .
Dianthus Caryophyllus , the parent form of the Carnation , shows the anthocyanic-xantheic series .
The yellow pigment is intensified to orange yellow by acids and alkalis .
Magentas and crimsons are probably produced by the addition of red sap to ivory and yellow respectively .
Ivory gives the yellow colour-reaction with acids and alkalis , but whether it is dominant to yellow , and whether an albino , recessive to yellow , exists has not yet been ascertained .
Cistacece .
Varieties of HeliamIhemumvulgare show the anthocyanin-xanthin series and pale yellows , which are derivative plastid pigments , probably from xanthin .
The type is crimson , i.e. anthocyanin on xanthin , and the magenta and pink types are due to the same sap-colour on the pale yellow derivative forms .
Composites .
Calendula officinalis exists in two varieties , orange and lemon yellow ; in the former the colour is due to plastids containing carotin and xanthin , in the latter xanthin only .
There is apparently no anthocyanic form .
Chrysanthemum carinatum shows the anthocyanic-xanthei'c-xanthin series with pale yellows containing derivative products of xanthin , and whites giving the yellow colour-reaction with acids and alkalis , and containing colourless plastids .
Anthocyanin on whites , pale yellows , and deep yellows gives the usual magentas and crimsons .
In the yellows , from which antho1908 .
] Flowers with Special Reference to Genetics .
cyanin is absent , a xantheic pigment exists , which gives an orange Colour with acids and alkalis and an orange precipitate with basic lead acetate .
The autumnal cultivated forms of Chrysanthemum resemble the above species , except that the anthocyanin appears to be of the kind which does not give a xantheic derivative .
Coreopsis Drummondiihas a brown patch of anthocyanin-containing cells at the base of the ray-florets .
The orange-yellow of the florets is due to plastids containing carotin and xanthin .
A xantheic pigment , probably left as the anthocyanin retreats to the base of the florets , is also present in their upper portions ; it turns orange-red with acids and alkalis and is precipitated by basic lead acetate as an orange precipitate .
Dahlia variabilisshows the anthocyanic-xantheic series .
The yellow turns a brilliant orange colour with acids and alkalis , and is precipitated as a deep orange-red precipitate by basic lead acetate .
The ivory gives the yellow colour-reaction .
Magentas and purples are anthocyanin on ivory , and crimsons are anthocyanin with xanthein .
Gaillardiaspp .
have usually orange-yellow ray-florets , with anthocyanin at the base .
The orange-yellow is due to plastids containing carotin and xanthin .
There appears to be no xantheic derivative .
Gazania splendenshas orange-yellow ray-florets with a dark basal patch of anthocyanin cells .
Orange-yellow is again due to carotin and xanthin .
Helianthus annuus has plastids containing xanthin ; a pale yellow variety exists in which the plastids probably contain some derivative product of xanthin .
Helichrysum bracteatum shows the anthocyanic-xantheic series .
The white variety gives the yellow colour-reaction with acids and alkalis .
The yellow contains a xantheic pigment , which gives an intense orange colour with acids and alkalis , and a similarly coloured precipitate with basic lead .acetate .
Magentas and crimsons are due to anthocyanin on white and yellow respectively .
Hieracium rubrum has anthocyanin in addition to plastids containing carotin and xanthin .
Picris paucijlorus , Senecio Jacobcea , and Taraxacum officinale have only plastids containing carotin and xanthin .
Tagetes signata shows the anthocyanin-xanthein-plastid series .
There is an orange-yellow variety with plastids containing carotin and xanthin , and a lemon-yellow variety with plastids containing xanthin only ; both yellows have in addition a xantheic pigment derived from anthocyanin ; it is intensified in colour by acids and alkalis , and gives an orange precipitate with basic lead acetate .
Anthocyanin on the deep yellow gives brown ; on the lemon-yellow maroon .
Miss M. Wheldale .
Colours and Pigments of [ Oct. 31 , Zinnia elegans shows the anthocyanin-xanthin series , with pale yellow derivative plastids from xanthin .
Anthocyanin gives the usual magentas , pinks , crimsons , and orange on the pale and deep yellows .
Cruciferce Brassica sinapis has plastids containing xanthin .
Cheiranthus Cheirihas two yellow varieties , a deep and a pale ; the former has plastids containing both carotin and xanthin .
It is probable that the pale yellow contains xanthin only , though it has not been tested .
Anthocyanin gives the crimson or brown on the deep yellow , and the purple varieties on pale yellow respectively .
Matthiolashows the anthocyanin series with purples , reds , and whites , the latter having colourless plastids ; anthocyanin may also exist with plastids containing a " cream " pigment differing from both carotin and xanthin .
Cucurbitaceaz .
GucurbitaPepo has plastids containing carotin and xanthin .
Fumariacece .
Corydalis lutea appears to have plastids containing xanthin and a yellow xanthe'ic pigment precipitated by basic lead acetate as an orange-yellow precipitate .
Hypericacece .
Hypericum Hookerianum has plastids containing xanthin .
Leguminosaz Goronilla viminalis has plastids containing carotin and xanthin ; some , anthocyanin is also present .
Lathyrusodoratus shows the anthocyanin range , purple , red , and white .
Also a " cream " plastid pigment similar to that in Matthiola .
Spartium junceum has plastids containing carotin ( ?
) and xanthin .
Liliaceaz .
A variety of Lilium tigrinum was found to contain plastids and anthocyanin .
From the plastids a brick-red pigment was extracted giving a blue colour with sulphuric acid , though no purple was detected ; it is probably a form of carotin .
Linaceaz , .
Linum Jlavum has plastids containing carotin and xanthin .
Flowers with Special Reference to Genetics .
Loasacece .
Bartonia aurea has plastids containing carotin and xanthin .
Malvaceae .
Althaea rosea shows the anthocyanic-xantheic series .
The yellow pigment is intensified in colour by acids and alkalis and is precipitated by basic lead acetate as a brownish-orange precipitate .
The ivory gives the yellow colour-reaction .
It has not yet been ascertained whether the yellow is recessive to ivory nor whether an albino exists .
Anthocyanin gives various purples , mauves , magentas , pinks , crimsons , and orange , according as it is present on an ivory or on a yellow ground .
Nyctaginaceoe .
MirabilisJalapa shows the anthocyanic-xantheic series .
The yellow pigment becomes paler with acids and alkalis , and is not precipitated by lead acetate .
The white variety gives the yellow colour-reaction , but is recessive to yellow .
The red pigment , as already stated , differs from most other forms of anthocyanin .
Onagracece .
CEnothera Lamarckiana has plastids containing xanthin and , in addition , *a pale yellow xantheic pigment intensified to orange-yellow by acids and alkalis .
Papaveracece .
Argemone grandijlora exists in three varieties , deep and pale yellow and white .
The deep yellow is due to plastids containing carotin and xanthin ; in addition , a crystalline glucoside , similar to that in Bschscholtzia , is present in the sap .
The pale yellow appears to contain xanthin and the glucoside , and the white gives the yellow colour-reaction .
Bschscholtzia californica has plastids containing both carotin and xanthin ; sometimes the margin or outer half of the petals is yellow or the orange petal is striped with yellow .
Examined microscopically the yellow colour of the streaks and margin is seen to be due to yellow plastids , containing , undoubtedly , xanthin only .
The orange portions contain orange plastids , carotin being present in addition in these .
The sap contains a glucoside ( the soluble yellow pigment of Courchet ( 3 ) ) , crystallising in spherules of needles .
B. Caniculaia rosea is cream tinged with pink .
Plastids are present containing only a little xanthin ; most of the plastid pigment appears to be similar to that in cream Matthiola .
The glucoside is also Miss M. Wheldale .
Colours and Pigments of [ Oct. 31 , present , though in smaller quantity than in the orange species .
The pink tinge is due to anthocyanin .
Glaucium luteum has plastids containing carotin and xanthin .
G. phceniceum , an orange-red species , has anthocyanin in addition .
Palaver nudicaule exists in three varieties , orange , yellow and ivory-white .
The pigment appears to be of the xantheic type , which becomes paler on addition of acids and alkalis , and is not precipitated by lead acetate .
Polemoniacece .
Phlox Drummondii has already been considered .
The xantheic pigment is deepened by acids and alkalis and precipitated by basic lead acetate as a deep yellow precipitate .
The ivory gives the yellow colour-reaction , and the albino , which does not give this reaction , is recessive to yellow .
Ranunculacece .
Ranunculus spp .
have plastids containing carotin and xanthin .
Rosacece .
Potentilla fruticosa has plastids containing xanthin .
Cream Rosa spp .
contain a plastid pigment similar to that in cream Matthiola .
Scrophulamacem .
Antirrhinum has already been fully described .
Calceolaria spp .
contain a xantheic pigment intensified in colour by acids and alkalis , and precipitated by basic lead acetate as an orarige-brown precipitate .
In some cases plastids containing xanthin are also present .
Varieties of yellow Nemesia strumosa have a xantheic pigment , which becomes paler on treatment by acids and alkalis .
Verbascum Lychniteshas a xantheic pigment giving a blue colour with sulphuric acid , fading to yellow , a yellow colour with alkalis , and a yellow precipitate with basic lead acetate .
S'olanacece .
Hyoscyamus Chloranthus , a yellow species devoid of purple veining , has plastids containing xanthin .
Physalis Alkekengi has plastids containing carotin and xanthin in the orange calyx .
Salpiglossis grandijlora shows the anthocyanin-plastid series .
The deep yellow is due to plastids containing carotin and xanthin ; the pale yellow 1908 .
] Flowers with Special Reference to Genetics .
probably contains xanthin only .
Various purples and crimsons are given on the addition of anthocyanin .
Tropceolacece .
Tropazolum majus shows the anthocyanin-plastid series .
In the pale yellow variety the plastids contain only xanthin , in the deep yellows carotin and xanthin .
Anthocyanin may be present in addition at the base of the petals or diffused throughout the flower .
Various concentrations of anthocyanin on pale and deep yellow give orange-red , salmon-red , crimson , etc. T. canariensehas plastids containing xanthin only .
T. speciosum contains anthocyanin .
Violaccce .
Viola tricolor shows the anthocyanin-plastid series .
The deep yellow has plastids containing carotin and xanthin , and in addition a crystalline glucoside , similar to that found in EsA paler yellow variety appeared to contain the glucoside only .
Summary of Results .
1 .
" Anthocyanin , " the term used in connection with the red sap-colour in plants , includes several pigments differing as regards their inheritance , the colours to which they give rise in variation , and their behaviour towards chemical reagents .
2 .
The colours of the varieties arising from an " anthocyanic " type may be regarded as components of the original " anthocyanin " ; the type , conversely , may be supposed to lose its components ( which are expressible as Mendelian factors ) in succession , thus giving rise to a series of colour variations .
3 .
Broadly speaking , there are two series of colour variations , one containing a " xantheic " derivative , as , for example , in Antirrhinum , the other no such derivative , as in Lathyrus odoratus .
4 .
Albinism , in the first series , is a lack of both " anthocyanin " and \lt ; \#163 ; xanthein " ; in the second series of " anthocyanin " only .
5 .
" Xanthein , " a term used in connection with yellow sap-colour , includes several different pigments .
This is to be expected if the view that " xanthein " is a derivative of " anthocyanin " be accepted .
6 .
There is evidence , as far as investigations have gone , of a correlation between the behaviour of pigments in genetics and their reactions towards chemical reagents .
7 .
In the case of plastid pigments , the type may contain carotin , xanthin , or both .
Varieties arise in some cases from loss of power to 60 Colours and Pigments of etc. produce carotin , or in others from loss probably of some of the constituents of xanthin .
8 .
" Anthocyanin " may exist together with plastid pigments in the type , in which case derivative products of both forms of pigmentation are found among the varieties .
I wish to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to Prof. Bateson for his kindness and help throughout this research .
I am also indebted to Mr. John Parkin , who has kindly made various suggestions .
BIBLIOGRAPHY .
1 .
Bateson , Saunders , and Punnett , ' Reports to the Evolution Committee of the Royal Society , ' I , II , and III .
2 .
Bidgood , J. , " Floral Colours and Pigments , " ' Roy .
Hort. Soc. Journ. , ' December , 1905 .
3 .
Courchet , " Recherches sir les chromoleucites , " ' Ann. des Sci. Not .
, ' serie 7 , 1888 .
4 .
Czapek , ' Biochemie der Pflanzen .
' 5 .
De Yries , 'Species and Varieties , their Origin by Mutation .
' 6 .
Heise , R. , " Sir Kenntniss des Heidelbeerfarbstoffes , " ' Arbeiten Kaiserl .
Gesundheitsamt , ' 1894 .
7 .
Lock , R. H. , " The Present State of Knowledge of Heredity in Pisum , " ' Ann. of the Roy .
Bot. Gardens , Peradeniya .
' 8 .
Molisch , H. , " Uber amorphes und Kristallisiertes Anthokyan , " ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1905 .
9 Overton , " Beobachtungen u. Yersuche iiber das Auftreten von rothem Zellsaft bei Pflanzen , " ' Prings .
Jahrb .
, ' 1899 .
10 .
Shull .
" New Cases of Mendelian Inheritance , " 'Bot .
Gaz .
, ' vol. 45 .
11 .
Weigert , " Beitrage sir Chemie der rothen Pflanzenfarbstoffe , " ' Jahresbericlit der K. K. Oenologischen u. Pomologisclien Lehranstalt Klosterneuberg bei Wien , ' 1894\#151 ; 95 .
12 .
Wheldale , M. , " Inheritance of Flower-colour in Antirrhinum majus , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 79 , 1907 .
13 .
Zimmermann , ' Botanical Microtechnique .
'

