240 Mr. H. TQmlinson .
The Influence of [ Mar. 12 , March 11 , 1886 .
Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Physical Properties of Matter .
Pa.rt I. Elasticity\#151 ; continued .
The Internal Friction of Metals .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. Communicated by Professor W. Grylls Adams , M.A. , F.R.S. Received February 18 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) An abstract of a paper on this subject has been already published , * but the paper itself was withdrawn for the purpose of revision .
The fresh experiments which have been for this purpose instituted during the last year were made with improved apparatus , and the coefficient .of viscosity of air redetermined , with a view of enabling the author to make more accurate correction for the effect of the resistance of the -air.f These more recent experiments on the loss of energy of a torsionally vibrating wire , besides confirming the results of the older .ones , as far as the latter have been published , have furnished , more or less in addition , the following facts relating to the internal molecular friction of metals:\#151 ; The proportionate diminution of amplitude is independent of the .amplitude , provided the deformations produced do not exceed a certain limit .
This limit varies with the nature of the metal , and is for nickel very low .
The logarithmic decrement of amplitude increases with the length of the vibration-period , but in a less proportion than the latter , and in a diminishing ratio .
The amount of increase of the logarithmic decrement , attending on a given increase through a given range of .the vibration-period , varies with the nature of the metal , and with those metals which possess comparatively small internal friction becomes almost insensible .
It follows as a consequence that the * " Proe .
Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 38 , p. 42 .
\#166 ; f An abstracted account of this re determination was- read before the Royal 'Society , January 14 , 1886 .
1886 .
] Stress and Strain on the Properties of Matter .
241 internal friction of metals differs from the viscosity of fluids , for in cases of damping by the latter the logarithmic decrement is inversely as the length of the vibration-period .
Permanent molecular strain resulting from loading not carried to a sufficient extent to produce sensible permanent extension , diminishes the internal friction , and increases the torsional elasticity .
Considerable permanent longitudinal extension and permanent torsion produce increase of internal friction and diminution of torsional elasticity .
The effect of torsion is much greater than that of extension , and the increase of internal friction is much greater than the decrease of torsional elasticity .
As a consequence wire-drawing , where we have permanent extension and torsion combined , sometimes increases enormously the internal friction ; in fact in the case of six different metals , it was found that by careful annealing the internal friction was decreased from one-half to one-thirtieth of the original amount of friction of the metals in the hard-drawn condition .
Almost equally remarkable is the effect of rapid fluctuations of temperature , even through ranges of only one or two degrees centigrade , in increasing the internal friction .
The internal friction of a metal wire , whether in the hard-drawn or annealed condition , is temporarily decreased , and the torsional elasticity is temporarily increased by loading not carried beyond a certain limit , beyond this limit both the friction and the elasticity become independent of the load .
The " fatigue of elasticity , " discovered by Sir William Thomson in metal wires when vibrating torsionally , is not felt , provided the deformations produced do not exceed a certain limit , depending upon the nature of the metal .
The above-mentioned limit is extraordinarily low for nickel , so low , indeed , that it is difficult to avoid " elastic fatigue " with this metal .
This last consideration , and others ; founded on the results of experiments on the effects of stress on the physical properties of nickel , tend to show that the molecules of this ; metal are comparatively easily rotated about their axes .
The author agrees with Prof. G. Wiedemann , that the loss of energy due to internal friction in a torsionally vibrating wire is mainly due to the to-and-fro rotation of the molecules about their axes ; any cause , therefore , which increases the molecular rotatory elasticity diminishes the internal friction , and conversely .
The author has , by various means , succeeded in bringing down the internal friction to-such an extent that , in the case of one wire , it would have required upwards of 15,000 vibrations to diminish the amplitude to one-half of its initial value , provided the vibrations had been executed in vacuo .
The molecules of a metal tend to creep into such positions as will ensure a maximum molecular rotatory elasticity , and they can beMr .
R. Lachlan .
[ Mar. 11 , assisted in doing so by agitations effected either by thermal or mechanical agency ; hence\#151 ; Rest after suspension , aided by oscillations at intervals , diminishes the internal friction of a wire which has been recently suspended , or which after a long suspension has been subjected to considerable molecular agitation by either mechanical or thermal agency .
On the contrary , when a maximum molecular rotatory elasticity has been reached , molecular agitation , if carried beyond a certain limit , diminishes the elasticity ; hence the results of " fatigue of elasticity and hence\#151 ; Mechanical shocks and rapid fluctuations of temperature beyond certain limits may considerably increase the internal friction , and , though to a much less extent , diminish the torsional elasticity .
The logarithmic decrement is independent of both the length and diameter of the wire .
II .
" On Systems of Circles and Spheres .
" By R. Lachlan , B.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor A. Cayley , F.R.S. Received February 23 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) This memoir is an attempt to develop the ideas contained in two papers to be found in the volume of Clifford 's Mathematical Papers ( Macmillan , 1882 ) , viz. , " On Power Coordinates " ( pp. 546\#151 ; 555 ) , and " On the Powers of Spheres " ( pp. 332\#151 ; 336 ) ; the date of the former is stated to be 1866 , and of the latter 1868 , but the editor explains ( see p. xxii , and note , p. 332 ) that though these papers probably contain the substance of a paper read to the London Mathematical Society , February 27,1868 , " On Circles and Spheres " ( " Proc. L. M. S. , " vol. ii , p. 61 ) , they were probably not written out before 1876 .
It is possible , therefore , that Clifford may be indebted to Darboux for the conception of the " of two circles , " or spheres , as an extension of Steiner 's use of the " of a point with respect to a circle .
Darboux was the first to give the definition of the power of two circles , in a paper " Sir les Relations entre les Groups de Points , de Cercles , et de Spheres " ( " Annals de l'Lcole Normale Superieure , " vol. i , p. 323 , 1872 ) , in which some theorems analogous to the fundamental theorem of this memoir are proved .
This memoir is divided into three Parts : Part I consists of the discussion of systems of circles in one plane ; Part II of systems of circles on the surface of a sphere ; and Part III of systems of spheres .
The power of two circles is defined to be the square of the distance between their centres less the sum of the squares of their radii .

