f=6 Z f=9 PSTV MYW X O f=8= I f=7 R N OD C H L E GBA P F K f=jj F I E D G ~A Fig=j2 I I F G FG R CEEC DD A II .
An Experiment , to show the cause of the descent of the Mercury in the Barometer in a Storm .
By Mr Francis Hauksbee .
IN the late Violent Storm or Hurricane of Wind , it was observable that the Mercury in the Barometer did not only considerably subside , but upon Extraordinary Gusts a Visible Vibration of the Quicksilver appeared .
And for satisfaction of the Curious , That High Winds are capable to lessen the Pressure of the Atmosphere , an Experiment has lately been Devised , and made at a meeting of the Royal Society at Gresham-Colledge , April the 12th , 1704 .
by Mr Fra .
Hauksbee , giving a Demonstration of this Phenomenon .
A Description of which take from the Delineation , Fig. 12 .
The Recipient .
A. containing about 5 quarts , having about 3 or 4 times its Natural quantity of Air comprest in it by the Syphon , B. B. Which for that purpose is screwed on at the Bottom within the side of the Bason C. The Stopcock .
D. being turned , and the Syphon taken off , a small Swan-neck Pipe .
E. is screwed on in its place .
The nose of which fits into a Brass Socket , which is fixed in a Cubical piece of Wood .
F. right against the Horizontal pipe .
G. From the same Cubical piece .
F. arises a Naked Barometer .
H. H. whose Cistern lies open to the passage which leads from the Swan-neck Pipe to the Horizontal Tube aforesaid .
Likewise from the same Piece .
F. proceeds another Pipe or Tube parallel to the Horizon distinguished by .
I. leading to another Cubical Piece of Wood .
K. 3 foot distant from the former : Out of which likewise arises another Barometer .L .
L. whose Cistern is also open to the Horizontal Tube .I .
and by that means hath Communication with the open Cistern of the other .
The Parts thus disposed , and the Stop-cock being turned , the Condensed Air proceeds strongly thro the Swan-neck Pipe , which discharges it into the Horizontal Tube .
G. Whose Currency so lessens the Pressure of the Atmosphere upon the Cisterns of the respective Barometers as to cause the Mercury to descend 2 inches at least .
And it is observable , That that Barometer which is 3 foot distant from the Current Air is equally affected , and subsides parallel with the other .
Likewise it is to be noted , that as the Current Air is weakned in its force , so doth the Weight of the Atmosphere again Increase , and the Mercury in the Barometers gradually Ascend .

