On some Combinations of Phosphorus and Sulphur , and on some other Subjects of Chemical Inquiry .
By Sir Humphry Davy , Knt. LL. D. Sec. R.S. Read June 18 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 405 .
] The author has formerly described to the Society two compounds , consisting of phosphorus and oxymuriatic acid , or chlorine ; one of them is a solid compound ; and by his present experiments , consists of three parts of phosphorus combined with twenty of chlorine .
The second compound contains only half this quantity of chlorine , and is a fluid , having the specific gravity of 1-46 .
The fluid will also dissolve a still further quantity of phosphorus ; but the author has not ascertained whether there is any definite limit to the proportion so dissolved .
When this fluid compound is treated with water , it forms a thick fluid , of the consistence of syrUp , that crystallizes slowly by cooling .
These crystals may be called hydrophosphorous acid ; for by heat they are decompounded into phosphoric acid , and a peculiar gas , consisting of phosphorus and hydrogen .
This gas differs from common phosphuretted hydrogen , in not being spontaneously inflammable when mixed with common air , and in being considerably less fetid than that gas .
The proportions of its constituent parts are estimated to be four hydrogen , with twenty phosphorus .
The phosphoric acid contained in the crystals , derived its origin from the water added to the original fluid ; while the hydrogen of the water escaped with the chlorine in the form of muriatic gas .
In the interchange of elements which takes place in these combinations , there are many circumstances favourable to ascertaining the proportions in which the several elements unite with each other ; and the author observes , the results accord remarkably well with other determinations .
In the same manner respecting sulphur , a similar accordance between the proportions , by weight , in which it unites with different elements , confirms other estimates of the elementary number fit to express the relation of this body to hydrogen , the unit of the scale .
For since in sulphuretted hydrogen the hydrogen is not altered in bulk by the sulphur it holds in solution , the increase of weight shows the proportion of sulphur combined .
And so likewise in sulphurous acid gas , the bulk is not greater than that of the oxygen which it contains ; and since the specific gravity is double that of oxygen , the increase proves that sulphur , in this instance , has combined with an equal weight of oxygen .
When sulphur combines with a larger proportion of oxygen , the presence of water appears to be requisite as the medium of union .
In the phosphoric acid , on the contrary , water is not necessary for uniting the full proportion of oxygen with which phosphorus is capable of combining .
With respect to the water that has been observed to be retained by many earths , and metallic precipitates , it is remarked , that this is probably combined with them in definite proportion , and that the presence of the water has considerable influence on their colours , and on other properties .

