1874 .
] On the Refraction of Sound by the Atmosphere .
295 III .
( c On the Refraction of Sound by the Atmosphere .
" By Prof. Osborne Reynolds , Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received March 18 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) The principal object of this paper is to show that sound is refracted upwards by the atmosphere in direct proportion to the upward diminution of the temperature , and hence to explain several phenomena of sound , and particularly the results of Prof. Tyndall 's recent observations off the South Poreland .
The paper commences by describing the explanation of the effect of wind upon sound , viz. that this effect is due to the lifting of the sound from the ground , and not to its destruction , as is generally supposed .
The lifting of the sound is shown to be due to the different velocities with which the air moves at the ground and at an elevation above it .
During a wind the air moves faster above than below , therefore sound moving against the wind moves faster below than above , the effect of which is to refract or turn the sound upwards ; so that the " rays " of sound , which would otherwise move horizontally along the ground , actually move upwards in circular or more nearly hyperbolic paths , and thus , if there is sufficient distance , pass over the observer 's head .
This explanation was propounded by Prof. Stokes in 1857 , but was discovered independently by the author .
The paper then contains the description of experiments made with a view to establish this explanation , and from which it appears that:\#151 ; 1 .
The velocity of wind over grass differs by one half at elevations of 1 and 8 feet , and by somewhat less over snow .
2 .
When there is no wind , sound proceeding over a rough surface is destroyed at the surface , and is thus less intense below than above .
3 .
That sounds proceeding against the wind are lifted up off the ground , and hence the range is diminished at low elevations ; but that the sound is not destroyed , and may be heard from positions sufficiently elevated with even greater distinctness than at the same distances with the wind .
4 .
That sounds proceeding with the wind are brought down to the gi ound in such a manner as to counterbalance the effect of the rough surface ( 2 ) ; and hence , contrary to the experiments of Delaroche , the range at the ground is greater with the wind than at right angles to its direction , or where there is no wind .
On one occasion it was found that the sound could be heard 360 yards with the wind at all elevations , whereas it could be heard only 200 yards at right angles to the wind , standing up ; and , against the wind , it was lost at 30 yards at the ground , 70 yards standing up , and at 160 yards at an 2 a 2 203 On the Refraction of Sound by the Atmosphere .
[ Apr. 23 elevation of 30 feet , although , it could be heard distinctly at this latter point a few feet higher .
As might be expected , the effect of raising the bell was to extend its range to windward , to even a greater extent than was obtained by an equal elevation of the observer .
These results agree so well with what might be expected from the theory as to place its truth and completeness beyond question .
It is thus argued that , since the wind raises the sound so that it cannot be heard at the ground , by causing it to move faster below than above , any other cause which produces such a difference in velocity will lift the sound in the same way ; and therefore that an upward diminution in the temperature of the air must produce this effect ; for every degree of temperature between 32 ' and 70 ' adds nearly one foot per second to the velocity of sound .
Mr. Grlaisher 's balloon observations * show that when the sun is shining with a clear sky , the variation from the surface is 1 ' for every hundred feet , and that with a cloudy sky 0o,5 , or half what it is with a clear sky .
Hence it is shown that " rays " of sound , otherwise horizontal , will be refracted upwards in the form of circles , the radii of which are 110,000 feet with a clear sky , and 220,000 with a cloudy sky ; \#151 ; that is to say , the refraction on bright hot days will be double what it is on dull days , and still more under exceptional circumstances , and comparing day with night .
It is then shown by calculation that the greatest refraction ( 110,000 radius ) is sufficient to render sound , from a cliff 235 feet high , inaudible on the deck of a ship at 1| mile , except such sound as might reach the observer by divergence from the waves passing over his head ; whereas , when the refraction is least ( 220,000 radius ) , that is , when the sky is cloudy , the range would be extended to 2| miles , with a similar extension for the diverging waves , and under exceptional circumstances the extension would be much greater .
It is hence inferred that the phenomenon which Prof. Tyndall observed on the 3rd of July and other days ( namely , that when the air was still and the sun was hot he could not hear guns and other sounds from the cliffs 235 feet high more than 2 miles , whereas when the sky clouded the range of the sounds was extended to 3 miles , and , as evening approached , much further ) was due , not to the stoppage or reflection of the sound by clouds of invisible vapour , as Prof. Tyndall has supposed , but to the sounds being lifted over his head by refraction in the manner described ; and that , had he been able to ascend 30 feet up the mast , he might at any time have extended the range of the sounds by a quarter of a mile at least .
* Brit. Assoc. Report , 1862 , p. 462 .

