i Report on the Anatomy of the Tsetse-fly ( Glossina palpalis ) .
By E. A. Minchin , M.A. , Professor of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy in University College , London , late Fellow of Merton College , Oxford .
( Communicated by Professor E. Ray Lankester , F.R.S. Received August 17 , 1905 .
) The following description is based upon dissections and preparations made in the laboratory of the Sleeping Sickness Commission at Entebbe since my arrival here at the beginning of April .
I hope on my return to England to work up my material into a detailed memoir on the anatomy and histology .
Time does not suffice for me to complete my work out here , but it seemed worth while , nevertheless , to bring forward as soon as possible a brief description of the general anatomy of the fly , and especially of its digestive tract , on account of its importance for the study of the evolution of the trypanosomes of Sleeping Sickness , and other tsetse-fly diseases , within the body of their invertebrate host .
In this paper I do not propose to attempt to deal with either the muscular system or the respiratory tracheal system .
The former of these is so complex that much more time would be required for working it out than I could afford to spend , and it is , moreover , of little or no importance for the aim in view ; while the tracheal system , or at least its finer branches , are so intimately connected with the fat-body , which here , as in other insects , fills up the body-cavity , that in the process of clearing up and laying bare the organs , the tracheae are for the most part removed .
Special muscles or tracheae will be mentioned in places , but otherwise no account will be taken of these two systems .
The drawings illustrating this memoir are to be regarded as semi-diagrammatic , but all details in them have been traced from sketches made with the camera lucida from actual dissections , and therefore claim to be true to nature and accurate as regards scale and proportions .
For help in the preparation of these drawings I am much indebted to my colleague , Mr. F. Tulloeh , R.A.M.C. , who also kindly cut some sections for me .
Mr. Tulloch has also made some dissections of Scomparison with which has thrown light on some points in Glossina Mr. E. Degen , who came out with me , has also helped me in various ways .
Since I have no access out here to any literature or works of reference dealing with insect-anatomy , I am unable to make this account comparative , Prof. E. A. Minchin .
Report on the [ Aug. 17 , or to state how far Glossina differs from other Diptera as regards internal structure .
I shall content myself , therefore , with describing the facts observed by me in a purely objective manner .
In the following description I shall employ the term waist for the narrow peduncle connecting the thorax and abdomen , and neck for the still narrower connection between head and thorax .
1 .
The Nervous System of Glossina , as of other Diptera , is concentrated into two masses , one situated in the head , the other in the thorax .
The brain ( fig. 1 ) consists of the two large cerebral ganglia ( .
0 .
G ) giving off laterally the still larger optic lobes { Op. L ) , from which arise the optic nerves .
The dissection of the brain and its nerves is rendered somewhat difficult by the large air-sacs , dilatations of the tracheal system , contained in the head .
From the anterior side of the cerebral ganglia various nerves are given off : first , a median nerve of moderate size to the three ocelli ( oc .
n. ) , arising from the furrow between the two cerebral ganglia , and apparently swelling out into a small ganglion ; secondly , a pair of nerves to the antennae , arising about half-way down the front of the brain on each side ; thirdly , a pair of small nerves which innervate the muscles of the pharynx , arising near the base of the brain ; and lastly , a pair of nerves to the proboscis , which arise from the base of the brain , run forward ventrally to the pharynx , giving off nerves at this point to the muscles of the proboscis , and finally enter the bulb of the proboscis , to be distributed to the mouth-parts ( fig. 5 , n.p. ) .
From the posterior surface of the brain , near its base , the two stout connectives ( fig. 1 , Cn .
) arise , and pass down on each side of the greatly narrowed oesophagus , after which they unite almost immediately to form a single broad band of nerve-tissue , which runs back through the neck to join the thoracic ganglion-complex .
From this connective band , as it may be termed , there arises , immediately after it enters the thorax , a slender pair of nerves , which form a delicate plexus with the first pair of prothoracic nerves arising a short way behind them ( fig. 1 , Cn .
n. ) .
The connective band often appears distinctly double at its junction posteriorly with the thoracic ganglion-mass , which lies immediately ventral to the stomach , the anterior end of the former being a short distance behind that of the latter .
It is a mass of considerable thickness in the dorsoventral direction , and appears more or less pear-shaped in a dorsal view , but seen from the ventral side its anterior end appears truncated .
When stained , cleared , and mounted in Canada balsam , it is seen distinctty to be composed of three pairs of large ganglia united together , corresponding to the three segments of the thorax , behind which a small mass of ganglion-cells , 1905 .
] Anatomy of the Tsetse-fly ( Glossina palpalis ) .
533 Oc .
v.pth.n .
d.msth.n .
v.msth.n v.mtth.n -- d.mtth.n S.D.------ _ _ - d.az.n .
Hit.---- v.az.n IV--- -- p.n. Fig. 1.\#151 ; General Sketch of the Nervous System , dorsal view .
The top of the head is pushed forward and downward as far as possible , to show the brain .
A portion of the oesophagus and the salivary ducts are also represented , the salivary gland being supposed to be turned outwards from the abdomen and cut off near the origin of the ducts .
All lettering relating to the nervous system has been placed on the right of the figure , that referring to other parts on the left .
H. , head ; thorax ; I\#151 ; VII , the segments of the abdomen ; Oc .
, ocelli ; E. , eyes ; CEs .
, oesophagus ( cut off ) ; S. I ) .
, salivary duct ; W. , origin of wings ; Hit .
, halter ; S. G. , salivary gland ; Oc .
n. , ocellar nerve : S. 0 .
G. , right cerebral ganglion ; Op. 1 .
, right optic lobe ; Cn .
, connectives ; Cn .
nerve from the connective forming a plexus with : d. n. , dorsal prothoracic nerve ; n. , ventral prothoracic nerve ; d. msth .
n. , v. msth .
n. , dorsal and ventral mesothoracic nerves ; Th. c. , thoracic ganglion complex ; d. mtth .
n. , v. mtth .
n. , dorsal and ventral meta-thoracic nerves ; p. abd .
n. , paired abdominal nerve ; az .
abd .
n. , azygos abdominal nerve ; d. az .
dorsal branch of the azygos nerve ; v. az .
n. , ventral branch of the azygos nerve ( genital nerve ) ; pi .
, plexus formed by the genital nerve ; p. n. , nerve to penis .
Prof. E. A. Minchin .
Report on the [ Aug. 17 } representing the abdominal nervous system , forms the posterior-pointed termination of the thoracic complex .
From each of the thoracic ganglionic centres arise two nerves , one dorsal and one ventral , so that altogether six pairs arise from the body of the thoracic complex , which are distributed to their proper regions of the thorax .
From the posterior end of the thoracic complex arise three nerves , one median unpaired , and two lateral paired , which pass backwards into the abdomen .
The greater part of the thorax of the fly is a mass of muscle , and as the muscles have to be removed in order to display the other organs in the thorax , the terminations and finer branches of the nerves are torn away from them .
Hence it is impossible to describe accurately the destinations of these nerves without a detailed study of the musculature , which , as already stated , I have not made .
It would appear , however , that the three ventral pairs of thoracic nerves innervate the legs and their muscles .
The dorsal prothoracic nerves ( fig. 1 , d. n. ) are very slender , and , as already stated , form an anastomosis with the nerves from the connectives .
The ventral prothoracic nerves ( v. pth .
n. ) are of moderate size .
The dorsal mesothoracic nerves ( d. msth .
n. ) are very large , being in fact the stoutest nerves in the body .
They run slantingly forward , then curve round till they run in a backward direction , and appear to be distributed to the wing-muscles .
A small nerve arises from the ganglion close behind the origin of the dorsal mesothoracic nerves , and runs backwards in a dorsal direction .
It is drawn in fig. 1 , but not lettered , and is probably to be regarded as a branch of the dorsal mesothoracic nerve .
The ventral mesothoracic nerves ( v. msth .
n. ) are also of fairly large size .
The dorsal metathoracic nerves ( d. mtth .
n. ) are large , the ventral ones { v. mtth .
n. ) of moderate size .
The three abdominal nerves run at first straight backwards , and almost parallel to each other , to the waist .
Before reaching it the median nerve ( az .
abd .
n. ) has divided into a smaller dorsal and a larger ventral branch .
After passing through the waist the two lateral nerves { p. dbd .
n. ) diverge outwards to the sides of the abdomen and break up into numerous branches .
The dorsal branch of the median nerve is distributed to organs situated dorsally in the abdomen .
The ventral branch of the median nerve is the nerve of the generative organs .
In the male 1 have found that its branches unite to form a plexus ( fig. 1 , pi .
) , apparently containing a small ganglion , which gives off nerves in various directions , and from which a fairly stout nerve ( p.n. ) arises and follows the ductus ejaculatorious in its tortuous 1905 .
] Anatomy of the Tsetse-fly ( Glossina palpalis ) .
535 course , till it finally enters with it the penis , the muscles of which it innervates .
In the female a similar plexus appears to be formed , but owing to the dense tangle formed by the fat-body , uterine glands , and Malpighian tubules , I have not succeeded in dissecting out its finer details .
2 .
The Digestive Tract.\#151 ; Since the proboscis , buccal cavity , and pharynx have been thoroughly described in Austen 's monograph by Hansen , whose account I can but confirm , I commence my description with the oesophagus .
This portion of the alimentary canal ( figs. 1 and 2 , CEs .
) runs first of all in an upward direction from the pharynx ( . .
) , then bends sharply round and passes backwards through the brain .
The first portion of the oesophagus is dilated , but slightly compressed , appearing of greater calibre in a dorsal than in a lateral view .
After bending round , it narrows rapidly , and the portion which passes through the brain is of extreme tenuity , scarcely , if at all , of greater calibre than the salivary ducts .
Behind the brain the oesophagus widens , at first very gradually , then , after entering the thorax , more rapidly , till it joins the stomach , into which it opens ventrally , breaking through the floor slightly in front of the point at which the thoracic intestine arises dorsally .
* From the point at which the oesophagus opens into the stomach , the duct of the sucking stomach arises .
The stomach , which marks the commencement of the mesenteron , has a peculiar and very characteristic form ( fig. 2 , St. ) .
Seen from the dorsal aspect , it appears roughly oblong in form , with a bevelled anterior edge , and the upper surface more or less saddle-shaped , i.e. , convex in the transverse section , concave in the longitudinal direction .
Seen from below , its lateral edges appear wrapped round the oesophagus and the duct of the sucking stomach , on which it rides , as it were .
From the dorsal side of the stomach , about the middle of its length , arises the intestine , the first part of which ( Th. I. ) runs backwards through the thorax as a straight tube of even calibre , until it passes the waist .
As soon as it enters the abdomen the intestine swells and becomes the strictly digestive portion of the alimentary canal .
The abdominal intestine is of great length , but until it reaches the proctodseum it cannot be divided into regions .
It forms a number of complicated coils in the abdomen , and for purposes of description a number of limbs may be distinguished , each limb separated from the one next following by a more or less sharp bend ( figs. 2 and 3 ) .
The first limb ( 1 ) runs backwards along the abdomen in a dorsal situation , curving first slightly to the right , then more strongly to the left , until it reaches the fifth segment , where a sharp bend takes place forwards in a ventral direction .
The second limb ( 2 ) curves round from left to right , Prof. E. A. Minchin .
Report on the [ Aug. 17 , \gt ; CEs , -------Th.i .
------S.D \#151 ; S.St HI------ riH^ \ u--- Fig. 2.\#151 ; General View of the Digestive Tract , as seen in dorsal view without disturbing its parts .
The heart and overlying tracheae and fat-body are removed in the abdomen , also the muscles in the thorax , and the brain and other parts of the nervous system are omitted from the drawing .
The head is turned round to the left , in order to show the pharynx , etc. , in three-quarter side view .
Ph. , pharynx ; CEs .
, oesophagus ( the portion which passes through the brain being represented with a dotted outline ) ; St. , stomach ; Th. thoracic intestine , pulled over to the right , in order to show the duct of the sucking stomach lying beneath it ; S. D- , salivary duct ; DS .
St. , duct of : S. St. , the sucking stomach ; S. salivary gland ( that on the right is drawn from a specimen in which the gland was more developed than in the case of that drawn on the left ) ; 1\#151 ; 13 , limbs of the abdominal intestine ( see fig. 3 ) ; R. , rectum .
Other letters as in the preceding figure .
1905 .
] Anatomy of the Tsetse-fly(Glossina .
palpalis ) .
537 running first anteriorly , then transversely , and lastly in a posterior direction .
It is more ventral in situation , being placed below some of the succeeding coils .
The third limb ( 3 ) is short , and runs straight forward on the right side from the fifth to the third segment .
Not visible in fig. 2 , its position is indicated in fig. 3 .
The fourth limb ( 4 ) turns at right angles , and runs n\#151 ; Fig. 3.\#151 ; Diagram to show the various limbs ( 1\#151 ; 13 ) of the abdominal intestine , and their arrangement in the abdomen .
The asterisk * denotes the point at which the Malpighian tubules arise in the tenth limb .
transversely across the body in the third segment , passing back a short distance into the fourth .
The fifth limb ( 5 ) turns sharply back on the fourth and runs dorsally to it across the body again in the third segment .
The sixth limb ( 6 ) turns back at a right angle and runs back on the right side of the body from the third to the sixth segment .
The seventh limb ( 7 ) turns sharply forwards , then curves round in a roughly semi-circular course in the third segment , and finally runs backwards on the left side as far as the fifth segment .
The fifth , sixth , and seventh limbs form together a well-marked loop , lying superficially , which is generally the most dilated portion of the intestine .
The eighth limb ( 8 ) bends sharply forwards and downwards , and runs deep on the left side from the fifth to the third segment .
The ninth limb ( 9 ) bends at right angles and runs at first transversely in the third segment , then curves back into the fourth , then forwards again into the third segment .
The tenth limb ( 10 ) runs backwards along the right side of the body from the third to the sixth segment , and in the fifth segment gives off Prof. E. A. Minchin .
Report on the [ Aug. 17 , the Malpighian tubules ( * , fig. 3 ) , so that from this point the gut must be regarded as proctodaeum .
The eleventh limb ( 11 ) runs from right to left in a semicircular curve occupying the fifth and sixth segments .
From the origin of the Malpighian tubules to the end of the eleventh limb the gut is of small calibre , and may be called the ileum .
The succeeding portion is thicker , and may be called the colon .
It lies in the fifth and sixth segments , and forms the twelfth and thirteenth limbs ( 12 , 13 ) , both short and sharply bent one on the other .
The ileum and colon lie dorsally in the body , and the colon passes into the capacious rectum ( R. ) , which has four rectal glands ( fig. 5 , gl .
) each supplied by a bunch of small tracheae .
The appendages of the digestive tract are the salivary glands , the sucking stomach , and the Malpighian tubules .
The salivary glands ( fig. 2 , S. G. ) commence , starting from their distal ends , as two long tubes , much coiled , and occupying a very superficial dorsal position in the abdomen on each side of the heart , above the alary muscles .
Very transparent in the fresh condition , the salivary glands become glistening white in colour when put in alcohol .
Only tracheae and fat-body come between them and the dorsal body-wall .
The coils of the tubes extend back as far as the fourth or fifth abdominal segment , but the distal extremity of the gland may lie further forward than this .
With many twists and turns the tubes run forward to the waist and then pass into the thorax , at the same time diminishing rapidly in calibre , straightening out their coils , and descending to the ventral side of the body .
From this point the salivary gland becomes the salivary duct ( figs. 1 and 2 , S. D. ) .
The two ducts run a parallel course through the thorax , on a level with the duct of the sucking stomach , and on each side of it , passing under the stomach and above the thoracic ganglion ( figs. 1 and 2 ) .
When they reach the neck , the salivary ducts become so extremely attenuated that their course through the head is very difficult to follow .
As they enter the neck the ducts curve over towards each other , and pass under the connective nerve-band , thus parting company from the oesophagus , which passes above the connective .
The ducts pass under the brain and then under the pharynx .
If the head of a fly be examined from below , there will be found , immediately behind the bulb of the proboscis , an area covered by soft flexible integument , which recalls the soft skin at the base of a parrot 's beak , and has a similar function , that is to say , to allow free play for the movements of the proboscis .
When the proboscis is bent down , in the attitude it assumes when the fly is drawing blood , the soft skin forms a fold over the bulb , and when the proboscis points forward , in the attitude of repose , enclosed in the sheath formed by the two palpi , then the soft 1905 .
] Anatomy of the Tsetse-Jly ( Giossina palpalis ) .
539 integument is stretched .
If this flexible skin be removed , a cavity is exposed lying below the pharynx ( fig. 4 , across which run the nerves Fig. 4.\#151 ; Dissection of Pharynx , Proboscis , Salivary Ducts , etc. , ventral view .
P. , proboscis ; to .
, soft integument cut away behind the bulb of the proboscis ; dp to .
, depressor muscle of the proboscis ; r. to .
, retractor muscles ; Ph. , pharynx ; Ph. chitinous wings of the pharynx ; Ph. c. , membranous continuation of the ventral wall of the pharynx , to which the retractor muscles are attached ; p. , nerve to the proboscis ; CEs .
, oesophagus ; \gt ; S. D. , salivary duct .
to the proboscis ( n.p. ) , a pair of retractor muscles uniting anteriorly ( r. and the two delicate salivary ducts ( S. D. ) .
The last-named remain perfectly distinct and separated from one another until they pass dorsally to the median muscle formed by the two united refractors .
A stained preparation , which I have cleared and mounted in Canada balsam , shows the two ducts uniting into a single duct above this muscle .
In according to Hansen 's description , the two salivary ducts unite into a median duct much further back than I have found to be the case in Giossina .
Hansen , it may be noted in passing , speaks always of the thoracic salivary gland , * but in Giossina these glands are not thoracic , and in Stomoxys they are partly abdominal .
The immensely powerful muscles of flight , filling up the thorax , are probably the cause of the glands being shifted back into the abdomen .
To follow the further course of the salivary duct after it enters the proboscis , sections would be required , which I have not made , since Hansen has already described the duct as opening on the hypopharynx , as in all other insects .
The sucking stomach is morphologically a ventral diverticulum of the distal end of the oesophagus , which is placed in the two anterior segments of the abdomen , its connection with the oesophagus being drawn out into a long * Austen also states ( " Monograph , " p. 35 ) that " the salivary gland [ of Diptera ] . . .
is always situated in the thorax .
" ( The italics are Austen 's .
) Prof. E. A. Minchin .
Report on the [ Aug. 17 , slender duet traversing the thorax .
The sucking stomach in the ordinary condition of the fly is filled with gas , but shortly after feeding it is found filled with blood .
The duct of the sucking stomach arises , as already stated above , from the oesophagus , at the point at which the latter communicates with the stomach , in such a way as to appear as a direct continuation of the oesophagus , the opening into the stomach having rather the appearance of a dorsally-directed diverticulum .
At the point where the communication with the stomach occurs , the sides of the stomach are folded down ventrally so as to wrap completely round the duct , meeting below it , and forming a complicated system of cavities into which the fat-body intrudes .
When the duct passes the waist , it expands rapidly to become the capacious sucking stomach ( figs. 2 and 5 , S. St. ) , which has delicate walls , provided with a layer of unstriped muscles disposed irregularly .
The Malpighian tubules { M. t. , M. t. , fig. 5 ) arise by a pair of main stems given off from opposite sides of the 10th limb of the abdominal intestine .
Each of these stems very soon divides into two again .
In these tubules are excessively long , and so entangled with the fat-body and other organs that it is impossible to unravel them for their whole length , but since they are never observed to branch again , after their origin from the two main stems , it may be inferred that , as in other Diptera , there are in all four Malpighian tubules , disposed in this case in two couples , each couple coming off from a common stem .
When the dorsal integument of the abdomen is removed , it can generally be observed without difficulty that two of the Malpighian tubules have thickened terminations , which lie close alongside the heart in the pericardial sinus right and left .
In some specimens of Glossina these two tubules are not conspicuously thickened , but their position is constant .
In no case do they exceed the salivary glands in thickness .
It is evident that these two tubules must be of physiological importance for purifying the blood in the pericardial sinus .
Mr. Tulloch has found in Stomoxys the same two pericardial Malpighian tubules , thickened to such an extent as to greatly exceed in calibre the salivary glands .
Mr. Tulloch also found , and I was able to confirm his observation , that the two pericardial tubules of Stomoxys were a couple , arising both from one of the two stems on one side of the gut .
The Malpighian tubules being much shorter in Stomoxys than in Glossina , it was possible to dissect out the two pericardial tubules of the former as far as their common origin from the gut , at which point they were detached , stained , and mounted in Canada balsam , thus putting this somewhat unexpected result beyond all doubt .
Whether the two pericardial Malpighian tubules of Glossina are also , like those of Stomoxys , a couple with 1905 .
] Anatomy of the Tsetse-fly ( Glossina palpalis ) .
a common origin , cannot be stated with complete certainty , but it seems at least highly probable .
The morphological significance of this fact is , perhaps , that the two common stems of the Malpighian tubules are not to be considered as arising right and left from the gut , but as dorsal and ventral in origin .
I have not succeeded in finding the distal extremities of the two remaining tubules , but they appear to pass down towards the ventral side of the abdomen and to be entangled with the genital organs , the dissection of which they help to render difficult .
3 .
The Genital Organs lie in both sexes close to the ventral side of the body in the hinder segments of the abdomen .
The male organs ( fig. 5 ) consist of two pairs of tubes , greatly convoluted for a whole or a part of their course , which open all together into an unpaired tube , the ductus ejaculatorius , which in its turn passes to the external organs of generation and opens on the penis .
Commencing with the paired portions of the male apparatus , it is observed that the two tubes on either side differ markedly from one another .
One pair , placed most posteriorly , is tightly wound and has the coiled portion pigmented .
The other pair ; more anterior , forms a looser coil and is without any pigment .
I identify the former as the testis , the latter as the vesicuke seminales .
Each testis commences with a delicate wdiite filament ( .
/ .
) , embedded in the fat-body and difficult to trace .
I have not succeeded in finding where the free end of the filament is attached ; in dissections it appears to be loose .
The filament passes on into the tightly coiled pigmented tube , which forms a conspicuous , compact , brown body , the testis { T. ) .
In one dissection I succeeded accidentally in uncoiling the testis by pulling inadvertently on the filament when trying to remove the fat-body .
It was then seen that each testis is a whitish coiled tube enveloped in a pigmented brown coat , which crumbles easily into a brown powder .
In specimens that have been long in alcohol also the pigmented coat often sticks to the surrounding fat-body and comes away from the testis .
The proximal part of the testicular tube is dilated and forms the testis proper ; the distal portion is of smaller calibre and more tightly coiled , forming an epididymis , from which the tube is continued as the vas deferens ( V.d. ) .
The latter is a white , straight , or but slightly sinuous tube .
The brown pigment of the testis is continued a very short way down the vas deferens , and ends abruptly .
Each vesicula seminalis ( V. s. ) is a white tube , commencing with a blind end .
A short distance from the commencement the tube is slightly thickened for a short distance .
There is nothing to bind the coils together , nor any pigment , as in the testis .
Distally the tube straightens out to open into the unpaired duct of the generative system .
Prof. E. A. Mmchin .
Report on the [ Aug. 17 , 4 .
\#151 ; 6 .
V / v.az.n / " V.d. An.----- Fig. 5.\#151 ; Dissection of the Abdomen , showing the Abdominal Intestine unravelled and turned over to the left side , and the Male Genitalia situ in the Abdomen .
S. St. , sucking stomach ; 1\#151 ; 13 , the limbs of the intestine , as indicated in the two previous figures ; M. t. , M. t. , Malpighian tubules ; rectum ; r. gl .
, rectal glands ; An. , anus ; T. , testis ; t. / .
, testicular filament ; V. d. , vas deferens ; v. s. , v. vesiculse seminales , that on the left in its natural coil , that on the right unravelled ; D. ductus ejaculatorius ; Pyg- , hypopygium ; v. az .
n. , branches of the ventral azygos nerve ( genital nerve ) ; p. n. , nerve to penis , following the ductus ejaculatorius .
The ductus ejaculatorius { D. ej .
) has at its commencement a slight dilatation , into which open the four tubes just described .
From this point the ductus runs a very short way backwards , then curves sharply forwards , but soon turns back again , passes across to the left side side of the body , and forms a loop round the rectum , coming forward on the right to pass into the penis .
The various parts of the male generative organs are innervated , as already described , by a nerve plexus formed from the azygos abdominal nerve .
There appears to be a small ganglionic swelling on the ductus ejaculatorius , whence arises a nerve ( p. n. ) which'follows the ductus in its course to the penis .
The external organs of generation are concealed beneath the hypopygium .
The penis is an organ of complicated structure and mechanism , with an 1905 .
] Anatomy of the Tsetse-fly ( Glossina palpalis ) .
armature of hooks , spines , hairs , and semaphore-like erectile flaps , which would require so many figures to make their arrangement and relations clear , that I refrain at present from attempting any description of them .
The female genital organs differ considerably in appearance according as ithey are in the gravid or non-gravid condition .
In the course of my dissections I have only found one female in the latter state .
In the later periods of gestation the condition of the female is obvious externally , but females which do not appear to be gravid are found on dissection to have a small larva in the uterus .
The female organs ( fig. 6 ) consist , like the male , of paired and unpaired portions .
The former comprise the ovaries , the receptacula seminis and their ducts , and the uterine glands ; the latter are the oviduct , uterus , and Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
^ rec.sem .
_ - ov.r .
_ - d.rec .
ov ! .
, IV 0V.l - 0 d. - - d.rec .
" - c.d.gl .
" VI.----------------------------- ----pro.ut -------m.vag .
----m.v .
\ \ Vag .
An. V. Fig. 6.\#151 ; The Hinder Segments of the Abdomen with the Female Genital Organs in situ , dorsal view .
rec .
sem , .
, receptacula seminis ; ov .
, r. , ov .
I , , right and left ovarioles ; d. rec .
, duct of the right receptaculum seminis ; gl .
ut .
, uterine glands ( the greater number of these have been removed ) ; c. d. gl .
, their common duct ; retr .
ut .
, retractor muscle of the uterus ; Od .
, oviduct ; Ut .
, uterus ; L. , hinder extremity of the larva , causing a bulge in the uterus ; pro .
ut .
, protractor uteri , attached to the chitinous plate ( Ch. 1 ) ; m. vag .
, muscle ( dilator vaginae ?
) passing from the vagina to the tergum of the seventh abdominal segment ; m. v. , muscle passing from the paired chitinous plate ( Ch. 2 ) on each side of the vulva to the seventh tergum ; Vag .
, vagina ; V. , vulva , the anterior margin of which is shown by a dotted line ; An. , anus ; Ch , 1 , Ch. 2 , paired chitinous plates .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; The Ovarioles and Oviduct of a Non-gravid Female .
a. ov .
, apex of right ovariole ; other letters as in the preceding figure .
The very large ovum in the right ovariole has pushed the oviduct over towards the left side of the body .
YOL .
LXXYI.\#151 ; B. 2 0 544 Prof. E. A. Minchin .
Report on the [ Aug. 17 , vagina .
The female system of organs is considerably modified from the condition usually found in insects , in relation to the fly 's peculiar method of reproduction .
The ovaries are reduced to a single pair of ovarian tubes or ovarioles , one on each side of the body ( figs. 6 and 7 , ov .
r. , ov .
1 .
) .
Each ovariole shows only a small number of egg-chambers , not more than four or five .
The lowest chamber is very much larger than any of the others , and contains a large ovum .
When this ovum is comparatively small , the other egg-chambers are in a line with it ( fig. 6 , ov .
r. ) , but as the ovum grows larger it grows past the other egg-chambers , so that they appear attached to the side of the ovum ( fig. 6 , ov .
1 .
, fig. 7 .
, ov .
1 .
, ov .
r. ) .
The two ovarioles are always asymmetrical , owing to the fact that the ova in the lowest egg-chambers reach full growth on each side alternately , so that if there is a large ovum on the left , there will be a smaller one on the right , and vice versa .
The largest ovum I have seen was from a non-gravid female ( fig. 7 , ov .
r. ) , and was probably nearly , if not quite full-sized .
The two ovarioles open into the short , broad oviduct ( figs. 6 and 7 , od .
) , which widens out at its lower end to open into the uterus slightly behind the proximal end of the latter .
At its distal-expanded end the oviduct receives right and left the two ducts ( d. rec .
) of the receptacula seminis .
The latter sem .
) are small spherical bodies of a bright orange-yellow colour , surrounded by a whitish , transparent envelope .
Examination of the receptacula stained and mounted in Canada balsam shows that the clear envelope is an epithelium of large cells , surrounding a thick chitinous membrane which gives these organs their peculiar colour , and which is too opaque for the contents to be seen except in sections , by which method the receptacula are seen to be filled with spermatozoa .
The two receptacula are firmly attached to one another .
From each comes off the slender white duct , slightly convoluted .
The ducts are perfectly distinct from one another , and open , as described above , into the lower end of the oviduct .
Immediately below the opening of the oviduct into the uterus , a small tube debouches into the latter by a median dorsal aperture .
This is the common duct of the uterine glands ( figs. 6 and 7 , c. d. gl .
) .
After a short course it branches right and left into tubes , which branch again repeatedly , forming a great number of glandular tubes , which differ markedly in the gravid and the non-gravid condition .
In the latter state the gland-tubes are relatively few and very slender .
In the gravid condition , on the other hand , the tubes are very numerous , forming a tightly packed mass filling up the posterior end of the abdomen , and requiring to be pulled away to 1905* ] Anatomy of the Tsetse-Jiy ( Glossina palpalis ) .
54,5- show the other parts of the generative system ; further , the individual tubes , are much thicker , and when stained and mounted , they take up the stain very deeply and appear very opaque .
There can be no doubt that these glands serve for the nourishment of the larva in the uterus .
The uterus ( Ut .
) is a large thimble-shaped organ attached to the body-wall by a number of muscles .
Two retractors ( retr .
ut .
) run forwards from the proximal end .
There are two pairs of protractors , one dorsal , the other ventral ; the former ( pro .
ut.)start from the sides of the uterus and pass backwards to a pair of chitinous plates ( Ch. 1 ) at the posterior end of the body .
The wall of the uterus is beset by a very large number of small tracheal tubes ( not shown in the figure ) , and is thick in the non-gravid condition , but becomes thinner when stretched by the growth of the contained larva .
In all gravid uteri that I have seen , the two papillae at the hinder end of the larva cause a bulge in the lower end of the uterus ( fig. 6 , When the larva reaches a certain size , the rings of its segments become plainly visible through the wall of the uterus ; they could not be seen in the uterus drawn in fig. 6 , but in another , slightly larger , they could be seen distinctly .
The vagina ( fig. 6 , Vag .
) is a broad tube , considerably longer in the non-gravid than in the gravid condition , with a pair of dilator muscles vag .
) , , which are attached right and left just below its junction with the uterus , and pass outwards to be attached to the anterior margin of the tergum of the seventh abdominal segment .
The vagina widens out slightly as it approaches the vulva ( V ) , which is a crescentic , transversely elongated aperture , separated from the anus by a small chitinous plate ( Ch. 2 ) , one of a pair from which two muscles ( m. v. ) arise and pass outwards to be attached to the seventh tergum , .
a little way behind the attachment of the vaginal muscles already mentioned .
These muscles probably act as dilators of the vaginal aperture , and the five pairs of muscles described in the preceding lines are to be regarded as constituting the mechanism of parturition .
4 .
The Vascular System consists of the heart , in the abdomen , and its continuation , the thoracic aorta , in the thorax .
The heart occupies the five anterior segments of the abdomen , and is situated dorsally immediately below the plates of the terga .
It is so imbedded in the fat-body and pericardial tissue that not much can be made out of its structure by dissection alone , and examination of it mounted as a preparation for the microscope is necessary .
It can then be seen to have five chambers , each with a pair of ostia and a pair of alary muscles , corresponding to the segments in which it lies .
The alary muscles pass out at right angles to the axis of the heart , and can be traced through the fat-body to their attachments at the external lateral margins of the tergal plates .
546 Prof. E. A. Minchin .
Report on the [ Aug. 175 The hindermost chamber of the heart appears to end blindly posteriorly .
A little way in front of the hinder end are attached the two large alary muscles , the largest of the whole series ; not far in front of these again are the two ostia , on the sides of the widest part of the chamber .
In front of the ostia the lumen of the heart narrows rapidly , and to the narrowed portion is attached the next pair of alary muscles , lying in the hinder part of segment IV .
This arrangement is continued in segments II , III , and IY , the dilated portion of the chamber , with the ostia , occupying the middle of the segment , while the alary muscles , attached to the constrictions between the chambers , lie in the posterior regions of the segments .
The alary muscles of these three segments are of moderate size .
In segment II the heart receives a pair of tracheal tubes , right and left , which come to it opposite the ostia , and fork at once into branches running forwards and backwards .
The alary muscles corresponding to the first abdominal segment are very small and difficult to make out , and the region of the heart to which they are attached does not show the slightest diminution or constriction of its lumen , as is the case in all the chambers posterior to it .
In front of the first pair of alary muscles , at the usual interval , are the two ostia , quite similar to those of the other chambers .
In front of the first pair of ostia the lumen of the heart narrows to form a thin-walled vessel , which passes through the waist to become the artery which I have termed above the thoracic aorta .
This last runs along the thoracic intestine on its dorsal side , and is continued over the stomach , remaining apparently quite independent of the digestive tract , and only loosely attached to it , until it reaches the oesophagus .
Here it is firmly attached and becomes considerably dilated .
A short distance in front of the stomach a conspicuous cushion-like mass of large cells lies over the aorta .
At first I took this structure for a ganglion , but it appears to be a sort ot lymphatic gland , judging from its appearance in sections .
The thoracic aorta is apparently continued through the neck into the head , but I have not been able to follow its course further than the thorax .
The ' microscopic examination of the heart shows further that its floor is composed chiefly of fusiform cells resembling unstriped muscle-fibres , while its sides are made up of gigantic cells with nuclei of corresponding proportions .
These cells are arranged with perfect regularity , and in a manner exactly similar on the two sides of the heart .
Each ostium is formed by two cells , which are of small size when compared with the huge cells building up the wall of the heart , but are very large when compared with the cells of the surrounding tissues .
Two of the giant cells intervene on each side between the hinder end of the heart and the fifth pair of alary muscles ; two more between these muscles and 1905 .
] Anatomy of the Tsetse-jiy ( Glossina palpalis ) .
the ostia next in front of them ; and so on with unfailing regularity all the length of the heart , each ostium being separated from the alary muscles next in front or behind by just two giant cells .
In front of the first pair of ostia are found two cells of the usual size on each side , then a pair of slightly smaller cells , which pass on into the walls of the thoracic aorta .
Thus the entire wall of the heart is built up of 23 pairs of giant cells , not counting the ten couples of smaller cells which compose the five pairs of ostia ; to wit , four pairs to each of the five chambers , two additional pairs behind the fifth pair of alary muscles , and one pair anteriorly , making the transition to the thoracic aorta .
In view of the fact that the thoracic vessel is itself to be considered as a modified anterior portion of the heart , it is interesting to find that its delicate wall contains very large , flattened nuclei , arranged in pairs , right and left .
The alary muscles consist of delicate fibrils , arranged in an irregular fanlike manner , uniting into a stout muscle-fibre which is distinctly striated .
Entebbe , Uganda , July , 1905 .
2 p VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; B.

