The reading of a paper , entitled , " On the Structure and Functions of tubular and cellular Polypi , and of Ascidiae .
" By Joseph Jackson Lister , Esq. , F.R.S. ?
was commenced .
March 13 th , 1833 .
JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK , Esq. M.A. , V.P. and Treasurer , in the Chair .
The reading of Mr. Lister 's paper was resumed and concluded .
This paper contains the account of a great number of observations made by the author during the last summer , while he was at the southern coast of England , on several species of Sertularice , Plumular'un9 Tubularice , Campanularice , Ftustrce , and other polypiferous zoophytes , and also on various Ascidice .
Each specimen was placed for examination in a glass trough with parallel sides , before the large achromatic microscope of the author , directed horizontally ; and care was taken to change the sea-water frequently , which was done by means of two syphons , the one supplying fresh water , while the other carried off the old ; a plan which succeeded in keeping the animals in perfect health and vigour .
The drawings which were taken of the appearances that presented themselves were traced with a cameralucida , slid over the eye-piece of the microscope .
In a specimen of the Tubularia indivisa , when magnified 100 times , a current of particles was seen within the tube , strikingly resembling , in the steadiness and continuity of its stream , the vegetable circula ?
tion in the Chara .
Its general course was parallel to the slightly spiral lines of irregular spots on the tube ; on one side flowing from , and on the other towards , the polypus , each current occupying one half of the circumference of the tube .
The particles were of various sizes , some very small , others larger , but apparently aggregations of the smaller : a few were nearly globular , but in general they had no regular shape .
At the knots , or contracted parts of the tube , slight vortices were observed in the current ; and at the ends of the tube the particles were seen to turn round , and pass over to the other side .
Singular fluctuations were also observed in the size of the stomach and of the cavity of the mouth ; the one occasionally enlarging , while the other contracted , as if produced by the passage of a fluid from the one into the other and its subsequent recession , thus distending each alternately .
This flux and reflux took place regularly at intervals of 80 seconds ; besides which two currents were continually flowing , both in the mouth and stomach ; an outer one in one direction , and an inner one in the opposite direction .
In all the species of Sertularice examined by the author , currents of particles were observed passing along the soft substance which occupies the axis of the stem and branches , and were even seen extending into the substance of the polypi themselves , and traversing the sto ?
machs belonging to each .
Contrary to what happens in the Tubula ?
ria , the stream does not , in these animals , flow in the same constant direction ; but after moving towards one part for about a minute or two with considerable velocity , it becomes much slower , and then either stops or exhibits irregular eddies , after which it resumes its motion with the same velocity as before , but in the contrary direc ?
tion ; and so on alternately , like the ebb and flow of the tide .
If the current be designedly obstructed in any part of the stem , those in the branches go on without interruption , and independently of the rest .
It appears from a passage which the author has quoted from Cavolini , that he had noticed the circumstance of currents existing in the inte ?
rior of Sertularia , but had not detected their continuation into the stomachs of the expanded polypi .
Similar phenomena , which the author describes in detail , were observed in several Campanularice and Plumularice ; and several particulars are noticed with regard to the ovaries , and to the movements of the fluids contained in the ova of these zoophytes , before their exclusion from the body of the parent .
In some cases , the young polype , after it has attained a certain growth , but while still adhering to the parent , becomes decomposed , and , its substance being absorbed into the body of the latter , it en ?
tirely disappears .
Changes of the same kind frequently take place in different parts of the whole group ; one of the polypes being seen to shrink and gradually disappear , while others shoot forth in more luxuriant growth , rapidly acquiring a large size .
The author regards the circulating fluids in these animals as the great agent both in the ab ?
sorption and the growth of parts , and throws out the suggestion , that as it flows into the stomach , it may also act as a solvent to the food received into that cavity .
The particles which exist in these fluids show their analogy to those in the blood of the higher animals on the one hand , and to those in the sap of vegetables on the other : some appear to be derived from the digested food , and others from the melt ?
ing down of parts absorbed .
In these polypi the author never saw the least appearance of cilia , or of currents in the surrounding water , which are so frequently met with in other tribes of zoophytes .
The latter part of the paper is occupied by the account which the author gives of his various observations , first , on Ascidia , of which he enters into an anatomical description ; secondly , on the internal currents of water , permeating the branchial sacs , and determined by the vibratory movements of cilia which are seen in that animal ; and , thirdly , on the alternations in the course of the circulation of the blood in the vessels , which at one time flows in one direction , and , after a certain interval , takes the contrary course ; so that the same vessel which at one time performs the function of an artery , performs , at another , that of a vein .
This phenomenon of alternate currents , like that in the Sertularia , was met with in every specimen of Aseidia ?
which was examined by the author , and also in a Polychiium .
The paper concludes with several observations on Flustree , from which , as far as relates to the circulation of currents , the author was led to results in many respects analogous to the preceding .

