278 Dr. j. L. W. Thudichum .
[ Mar. 18 very slow when the satellite is far from the planet ; this must indeei obviously be the case , because the tidal effects vary as the inverse sixtl power of the satellite 's mean distance .
V. .
" On the Modifications of the Spectrum of Potassium which are Effected by the Presence of Phosphoric Acid , and or the Inorganic Bases and Salts which are found in combination with Educts of the Brain .
" By J. L. W. Thudichum , M.D. , F.R.C.P.L. Communicated by John Simon , C.B. F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received March 10 , 1880 ; Among the results of a large investigation on which -I have for many years been engaged in regard of the chemistry of the brain , I !
had been led to conclude that the so-called " protagon " of Oscar Liebreich is not a definite chemical body , but is a variable mixture of several bodies .
This conclusion of mine ( which agrees with opinions expressed on the same subject by Strecker , Diaconow , and Hoppe-Seyler ) was published by me in 1874 , * and endeavours to controvert it have since then been made , on several occasions , by Dr. Arthur Gamgee.f Last summer , he brought before the Royal Society^ his contentions for the chemical individuality of " protagon " ; and it fortunately was in my power shortly afterwards to publish evidence , which , I believe , those who will take the trouble to follow it will find quite unanswerable , that Dr. Gamgee 's contentions were mistaken^ Part of my evidence to that effect consisted in showing by quantitative analyses that Dr. Gamgee 's so-called " protagon " contains 0*7 per cent , of potassium ; secondly , that in connexion with trifling differences in the extraction process , the proportion of potassium in different specimens of " protagon " can be made to range from a trace to 1*6 per cent. ; thirdly , that with the variable quantities of potassium the quantities of phosphorus and other ingredients will also vary .
In the last published number , No. 200 , p. Ill , of the " Proceedings of the Royal Society , " I find that Dr. Gamgee has recently brought the question again under notice of the Society , and that , in doing so , he especially rests his case upon the following statement made by his colleague , Professor Roscoe , on the subject of some examinations , * " Reports of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council and Local Government Board .
" New Series .
No. III .
+ " Zeitschrift fur- Physiol. Chemie , " vol. iii , p. 260 j " Ber .
Deutsch .
Chem. Ges.1879 , \amp ; e. X " Proc. Roy .
Soe .
, " vol. xxix , p. 151 .
S " Annals of Chemical Medicine .
" Edited by J. L. W. Thudichum .
Vol. i , p. 254 .
i 880 .
] Modifications of the Spectrum of Potassium , fyc .
279 *hich , at Dr. Gamgee 's request , he had made for him : see " Proceedings , " vol. xxx , p. 113:\#151 ; " I have examined spectroscopically lor potash a sample of protagon furnished me by l)r .
Gamgee , itnd labelled ' Protagon , twice recrystallised , Blankenhom .
' I could not detect any potash by the spectroscope in the incinerated mass *'rom 01 grm. of substance .
With the carbonised mass obtained from 10 grm. of substance I obtained the potasssium line ( \#171 ; ) very faintly , ind from comparative experiments with a dilute solution of a potassium salt I estimate the quantity of potash in 1 grm. of the substance Lot to exceed mgrm .
The carbonised residue of L grm. of protagon was carefully oxidised with pure nitrio acid , when a small quantity of fused metaphosphoric acid remained after ignition .
The residue weighed 0 0278 grm. , corresponding to 108 per cent , of phosphorus.\#151 ; ( Signed ) H. E. Roscoe .
" !
As regards the bearing of Professor Roscoe 's evidence on the question that has been raised before the Royal Society , and as regards some other relations of the same question , I beg leave to submit to the Royal Society the following observations :\#151 ; 1 .
On the Modifications of the Spectrum of Potassium which are effected by Phosphoric Acid .
It is well known in spectroscopy that the best spectra of metals are obtained in the easiest manner by aid of their most volatile compounds , such as chlorides ; and , on the contrary , that salts which are more or less fixed at high temperatures , such as the silicates and i phosphates of alkalies and earths , give either no spectra at all or only very feeble spectra .
Thus , if a minute particle of bromide be ignited in the aerated gas flame before the slit of the spectroscope , the spectrum of potassium is at once produced in the most brilliant manner : particularly the line in red is brilliant and sharply defined , while the gas flame to the naked eye shows the violet colouring of potassium .
But when a similar particle of potassic phosphate is ignited under similar conditions , the flame , instead of showing the violet colour of potassium , shows a greenish-yellow colour produced by volatilised phosphoric acid : and in the spectroscope , at first , only the continuous spectrum of phosphoric acid ( not to be confounded with the continuous spectrum of potassium ) is seen , till gradually , and at a white heat , a feeble potassium line in red , with indistinct edges , is perceived .
Even a large bead of pure potassic phosphate , when ignited before the slit of the spectroscope , never produces , even at white heat , any such intense red potassium line as the smallest bead of potassic chloride , potassic bromide , or potassic nitrate .
And , in contrast with the latter salts , which volatilise quickly , the phosphate takes some time before it is completely volatilised .
Dr. J. L. V^JThudichum .
L^ar .
ig When such an indolent bead of potassic phosphate whieb I a feeble potassium line m red , is dipped into .syrupy ^ ^ I and again ignited , the continuous spectrum of volatilisi '8pt'ric I acid is again at first obtained , the aerated gas flame to th pt'S^0ti( !
I is enveloped in a greenish-yellow mantle , and in the alect I continuous spectrum of phosphoric acid only , stretching J'SCOpe I blue , and without a trace of the potassium line5in red , is seen* I ally the bead flows again as , a transparent glali|and th^ | potassium line reappears in the spectroscope .
though witho t HI reaching the vivacity of the line produced by .volatile salts I the bead have added to it a particle of a chloride____for ex , .
I chloride\#151 ; and be again ignited , a lively potassium spectrum^wil ] ?
seen in the spectroscope , i , m. , the .
potassium goes away as chior 'd That double decomposition with the separation of the products tV little more time than the volatilisation of a bead of potassic chlofil about the same size .
Evidently then , if it were intended to estimate from the spectro I scopic signs the concentration of a given potassic solution , it wouH be necessary to take into account not only the intensity of the potassium line produced during the volatilisation of the-solution , but ' also the length of time during whichlhat line is perched .
If iolu .
tions equally concentrated of potassie chloride and potassic phosphate are similarly examined before the spectroscope , the phosphatic solu-.tion is found to give the fefebter band , but - to give , it for the longest time ; and no spectroscopic observation with regard to such a solution can pretend to any validity for purposes of quantitative comparison unless the -observer be equally attentive to the duration as to the in-tensity of the phenomenon .
Referring* now , in the light of these considerations , to Professor Roscoe s letter , I wish first of all to point out that : his observatiii , wh^n made with the carbonisfed mass from 1 grm. of substance corroborated my assertion that the iSnbstance Contains ; ?
potassium And I may add , by theiway , that in my paper on which Dr. Gamgee ^yal Society* I have # giten sixteen quantitative ana yses of protagon and irts congeners with regard to the quantity ' po assium contained in each ; having made .each determination^ p assium by ordinary gravimetric methods , and having weighed the potassium as platinochloride .
f owever , Professor Roscoe estimates that the quan rpfXaf li .
a ^ram op Dr. Gamgee 's " protagon tv aonears t^f a H not exceed mgrm .
, an estimate which HHi HHHj faintness of the potassium line ( * ) , obtai WilWiiHIM compared '"with a dilute \#166 ; \#166 ; considerations 1 h EH erertce I think , it necessary to pheck by ations I have before stated .
Professor Roscoe states thai 'fthe Spectrum 'f Fotaasium ' \#166 ; I lS\#174 ; 0\gt ; ] . .
^ " protagon " a residue of 00278 grm. of 1 1 lIH according to his spectroscopic estimate , less ' !
phospboPlC H WHMI What is the value of the latter half of 1 with the context of the other half P ^stateme^ orBoscae could possibly obtain from such a substance ' Before in ed any spectroscopic evidence of the t W:^mS HHH he would have had to drive away from his pI^e##rf ^eiatively enormous amount of free phosphoric acid , platinum me had some potassic phosphate left , which , as ge wouldtben i a feebie and indistinct potassium band in ave na-u .
rw------- j. # ' \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; a f@eble and indistinct potassium band in the bead is heated in the flame before the spectro-_ ^ extremely small an amount as he must have ^ ' ^ld of necessity give a fallaciously weak reaction .
^ W'U Professor Roscoe seems not only to have thus overlooked HHM or weakening influence of phosphoric acid in relation \#166 ; \#166 ; 0f potassium , but has also omitted to give any objec-to^te spec ^ ^ intensities which he purports to compare , has jye measures the length of time during which the compared irfnued , ' and has not even named what was the \#166 ; H salt used by him as a standard in his comparison .
\#166 ; Hi ABM from the inherently small worth of spectroscopy as a Safe method , not even those precautions of which the spectro-admitted were employed by Professor Roscoe , and I nnst therefore respectfully submit my opinion that his experiment is of no practical value .
I , A , Me Inorganic Bases and Salts which are found in combination with the Educts of the Brain .
Fremy , in his research on the brain published in 1841 , stated that l^ioiy which he had isolated and termed " cerebric acid , " was frequently combined with soda and phosphate of lime .
Another sub-staee , which he termed " oleophosphoric acid , " he assumed to be ordinarily in the state of soda salt , but sometimes combined in part \#171 ; fi phosphate of lime .
He separated these bases and salts by dis-||lf\#187 ; g the mixture of the two bodies ( cerebric and oleophosphoric acid ) in boiling absolute alcohol , which had been made slightly acid by sulphuric acid.- Sulphates of lime and soda remained suspended mixed with some insoluble organic matter , and were removed by filtration .
The'cerebric and oleophosphoric acids were in solution , and deposited on cooling .
Prom the mixture oleophosphoric acid was extracted by ether , which left the cerebric acid behind .
Premy further found that cerebric acid combined with all bases , and must be considered a true acid .
'When heated with dilute solutions of potash , soda , Or ammonia it did not dissolve , but combined with each of these bases .
The compounds were also obtained by mixing any of these 282 Dr. J. L. W. Thu dichum .
[ Mar. lj ; *i bases with an alcoholic solution of cerebric acid .
Thus , he prepar\lt ; the insoluble barium compound containing 7 8 per cent , of baryta .
Bearing this experience of Fremy in mind during my researches c the chemical constitution of the brain , I invariably examined fi inorganic ingredients all the educts which I obtained from the ibrain.1 Of Kephalin ( the most important of the phosphorised ingredient of the brain ) 10 grms. were dissolved in one litre of water , an after filtration precipitated by hydrochloric acid .
The solution c hydrochloric acid and other matters filtered from the precipitate kephalin was evaporated to dryness .
A portion was then boiled wit !
solution of baryta , when traces of ammonia were evolved .
The res of the residue was then ignited in a platinum dish to destroy all trace of organic matter .
The ash was but slightly fusible ; was only par tially soluble in water , but was easily soluble in water slightly acidified by hydrochloric acid .
The solution with ammonia gave an abundant precipitate of earthy salts , and the solution assumed a deep blue colour Precipitate and solution were separated by filtration .
The precipitate dissolved readily in a little hydrochloric acid , forming a slightly red solution , suggesting the presence of iron , which was con firmed by the sulphocyanide test .
In another portion of the solution dilute sulphuric acid gave an abundant precipitate of gypsum , showing presence of calcium .
In another portion the molybdate test showed the presence of phosphoric acid .
To the remaining portion a few drops of ferric chloride were added , then sodic carbonate nearly to neutrality , and , lastly , barytic carbonate .
The mixture was allowed to stand , filtered , and the filtrate , free from excess of baryta by sulphuric acid , was again filtered , and the filtrate , after supersaturation with ammonia , gave a great precipitate with ammonic oxalate , showing presence of much calcium .
The filtrate from this calcic oxalate on concentration , and treatment with ammonia , ammonic chloride , and sodic phosphate , gave the precipitate characteristic of magnesium .
The precipitate produced as above described by baryta carbonate , was boiled with excess of pure soda , and the filtrate was warmed with ammonic chloride ; only a slight turbidity ensued , so that it may be assumed that aluminium was absent .
i The alkaline filtrate from the foregoing precipitate by ammonia was testpd for lime by oxalate , when a considerable precipitate was produced , showing the presence of lime uncombined with phosphoric acid , and which therefore must have been in combination with part of the kephalin .
The blue solution was again filtered from calcic oxalate , which had been entirely precipitated , and was acidified with hydrochloric acid .
The copper was precipitated by hydrothion , the filtrate * That part of my experience relating to kephalin and myelin is recorded in " Reports of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council and Local Government Board , " new series , No. Ill ( 1874 ) , p. 129 , and ibid. , No. YIII ( 1876 ) , p. 131 .
1880 .
] Modifications of the Spectrum of , 283 I orated to dryness , ignited , and the residue tested for alkalies .
This residue exceeded in bulk the bases previously removed .
It was Lible with ease , and on solidification became white and crystalline , Lt interspersed with many red particles of ferric oxide .
It was a Fixture of potassic and sodic chlorides , and of some feme oxide , which , ffing to the presence of the chlorides , had escaped precipitation by [ excess 0f ammonia .
* * It was , therefore , proved that the kephalin , obtained by the alcohol land ether process , and purified by solution in water and filtration , as I described at length in my researches above quoted , is , at least in part , !
combined with ammonium , sodium .
, potassium , calcium , iron , copper , and 'calcic and magnesia phosphates .
This experience was repeated a great number of times , and , in the aggregate , on several hundred grams of In the following experiments myelin ( the phosphorised ingredient which stands next in importance to kephalin in the chemistry of the brain)* was examined for inorganic bases , in order to obtain some knowledge regarding their relative amounts and nature .
The | myelin was dissolved in water , precipitated by hydrochloric acid , and the acid solution separated by filtration .
The copper was removed by hydrothion , the filtrate evaporated to dryness , and the residue ignited in a platinum dish .
During this ignition much ammonic chloride was given out , and its nature distinctly proved by condensing and analysing it .
^ , * The fused mass was dissolved in dilute hydrochloric acid , and the solution so obtained treated with excess of ammonia .
The white gelatinous precipitate which thrown down was scarcely coloured black by ammonic sulphide , indicating the presence of only a trace of iron .
The precipitate and filtrate were submitted to analysis , qualitative and quantitative , as follows:\#151 ; i The precipitate was dissolved in dilute hydrochloric acid , the solution was nearly neutralised by sodic carbonate , after addition of some ferric chloride ; an excess or barytic carbonate was now added ; the mixture was shaken , allowed to stand , and then filtered .
From the concentrated filtrate the barium was then removed by sulphuric acid , and the filtrate was precipitated in the presence of excess of ammonia by ammonic oxalate .
The oxalate so obtained was converted by intense ignition into oxide , which weighed 0*1994 grm. , equal to 0*1423 grm. calcium .
The filtrate and washings from the calcic oxalate were treated as usual for the quantation of magnesium , and there was obtained 0*5556 grm. magnesic pyrophosphate , equal to 0*1212 grm , magnesium .
The precipitate which had been produced by ferric chloride , and sodic and barytic carbonates , was dissolved in * Reports , as above , No. Ill , p. 156 .
Dr. J. L. W. Thudichum .
[ Mar. is mtnc acid , and the phosphorus estimated by precipitation with am tnonic molybdate , and transformation of the precipitate into mao'nes-ammonic phosphate , Ac .
This gave 0-3266 grm. equal 0 / 480 grm. phosphoric anhydride .
* w The filtrate was proved to be tree from magnesium and calcium The potassium contained in it was extracted in the usual manner hv " " " giving 11-2766 grms. o\#163 ; the double 'Jt -KOI.rtOI .
) equal to 3 651 grms. potassic chloride , or 1-911 orIn 0p potaednm The mother-liquor and washings were evaporated to dr , , ness , and the platinum was removed by extracting the ignited mass with water acidified by hydrochloric acid .
The extract so obtained was evaporated to dryness and fused ; the residue weighed 3-45 oTms being pure sodic chloride equal to T356 grm. sodium .
The quantities of sodium and potassium thus found were controlled by the analysis of a separate part of the original solution containing their chlorides .
and on calculating from the residue obtained on evaporation there should have been found a total quantity of chlorides = 7'09 grms. There was found potassic chloride = 3-651 , and sodic chloride = 3'450 ; together 7-101 grms. Assuming the above earthy bases to have originally existed in myelin as tribasic phosphates , and any phosphoric acid remaining over to have been in combination with potassium , then we have , Calcium Magnesium Potassium Potassium Sodium Phosphorus 0T423 grm. existing as 3Ca0 , P205 .
01212 0- 5663 1- 3447 1-3560 0-3266 3Mg0 , P205 .
' \#187 ; 3K20 , P205 .
" 1 combined directly with / myelin .
existing as P205 ( 0748 grm. ) and distributed between the calcium , magnesium , and potassium .
In the kephalin research , related above , it was proved that kephalin was partly in combination with calcic oxide or lime , without any other acid being united with that base .
In the myelin research it was found that , in myelin , there may be in combination even a much greater quantity of potash and soda than of lime .
A third research was now made on the mixture of phosphorised and nitrogenised substances , which Fremy termed " cerebric acid , " and which later writers have termed " protag on .
" This , after exhaustion with ether , was redissolved eight times in hot spirit , and after filtration reprecipitated on cooling .
It was pressed to remove all mother-liquor , was then suspended in water and heated until it became thoroughly emulged with it ; acid , either .sulphuric or hydrochloric , was now added , whereupon the organic matter curdled and contracted ; it was separated , and the acid solution was treated like the above described similar solution from kephalin and myelin .
Con1880 .
] Modifications of the Spectrum of , 8fc .
iderable quantities of the same bases and salts as those obtained from kephalin and myelin were isolated , but not examined any further .
It had been ascertained in previous operations on these mixed phos-phorised and ' cerebrin bodies , and was now again observed , that one treatment with acid was insufficient to free them entirely from bases .
The bodies which had been treated with acid were , therefore , treated with lead acetate solution in the cold , and were allowed to stand .
The liquid which formed was filtered from , and pressed out of the lead-compounds , and on proper treatment yielded as follows = 1-78 grm. ; potassium , = 1T8-5 grm. ; calcium , = 0'08 grm. ; and magnesium , 002 grm. The sodium was weighed as chloride ; the potassium , 0-856 grm. , as bitartrate , and O'32 grm. as platmic chloride ; the calcium as carbonate ; and the magnesium as pyrophosphate .
The respective preparations are herewith submitted for inspection .
Curious facts which deserve notice are the following .
When so-called " protagon " was decomposed by baryta to obtain neurin , it was observed that ' the platinic chloride salt of the base always contained potassium .
When the neurin was combined with phosphomolybdic acid , and carefully washed , and then again transformed into platinic chloride salt , it became free from potassium .
In both cases the salt was crystalline , but the crystallisation was different in the two cases .
The crystals containing potassium were most perfectly formed individuals , sometimes more than half an inch in length and breadth , and an eighth of an inch in thickness , while , on the other hand , the crystals free from potassium were bundles of needles , of lighter aspect and not admitting of angular measurement .
The experience shows that the platinic chloride compound of potassic chloride is dimorphous , and in one of its forms is isomorphous with the platinic chloride salt of neurin hydrochlorate .
It is further remarkable that the impure isomorphous mixture crystallised in well-defined individuals , while the pure salt crystallised in confused masses and in bundles of needles .
The crystals of the perfect type , when powdered and burnt on a platinum wire in an aerated gas flame before the spectroscope , produced the line in red characteristic of potassium .
This specimen is herewith submitted for inspection , as also a specimen of the salt free from potassium .
The foregoing data may perhaps contribute to explain some of the discrepancies which have been found between different specimens of neurin platinic chloride , and have -caused the inconvenience of a number of different formulae being attributed to neurin , namely , C5H15H03 , or C5HuNO , or C5H14N , or C5H13N .
They may also explain why neurin from " protagon " has been supposed to consist of a mixture of two bodies , having respectively the formulae C5H15N03 , termed oxyneurin , and CgHjgNO , termed neurin .
According to my own numerous analyses ( Reports as above , Ho. VIII , p. 118 , et seq.f the 286 Modifications of the Spectrum of Potassium .
[ Mar. 18 principal ammonium base from the phosphorised substances has , after purification by the phosphomolybdic process and combination with , hydrochloric acid and platinic chloride , invariably the composition C5H13NO .
The stoichiometric relations of such a base , in its platinic chloride salt , would be doubly disturbed by the presence of potassium ; for not only would a portion of the platinic chloride , namely that combined with potassic chloride , be erroneously referred to neurin , but the entire amount of platinum , if estimated , as is usual by combustion , would be raised in apparent amount by the presence of the potassic chloride as an invisible impurity .
The Albuminous Ingredient of the brain contains considerable amounts of the usual salts , particularly calcic phosphate , of which the calcium is obtained as gypsum , when the albumin is treated with dilute sulphuric acid , and the solution of hemi-albumin is filtered from the undissolved hemi-proteiu and slowly evaporated .
By combustion of the albuminous matter of the brain , all the usual salts and bases , including copper , iron , and manganese , are liberated .
The greater part of the soluble salts contained in the brain passes into the water extracts , while the greater part of the insoluble salts , such as phosphates of earths , remain with the albumin ; but a portion of both remains with the phosphorised and nitrogenised principles , and follows them into all their solutions in ether and alcohol .
Only sulphates have not been found in these latter , though they are present in the water extracts .
It follows that all educts from the brain have to be freed from the salts or bases described before they can be subjected to quantitative chemical examination ; and an error which seems to me to pervade all analyses of the brain for inorganic ingredients hitherto is the following .
When the brain is burnt in its entirety , the phosphoric acid resulting from the destruction of the phosphorised compounds expels sulphuric , hydrochloric , and carbonic acids , and comes to be considered as an inorganic ingredient , the fact of its previous combination being overlooked .
When the brain is freed from matter soluble in spirit and ether , and the albumin and water extract alone are examined for inorganic ingredients , the fallacy otherwise introduced by the phosphoric acid in organic combination is no doubt avoided ; but the inorganic salts described above , as in combination with the phosphorised and nitrogenised matters are overlooked and left out of consideration .
A vast range of other organic analyses ( animal and vegetable ) for inorganic constituents is no doubt affected by the same fallacy , and it seems to me that the right making of such analyses is a much more complicated problem than has hitherto been believed .

