IV .
A Letter from Dr William Oliver to the Publisher , giving his Remarks in a late Journey into Denmark and Holland .
THe Colleges and Schools in Copenhagen , both as to their Structure and Foundations , are very ordinary : The best I saw there was the Gift of the Learned Borichius , and ~ of twelve Apartments for as many Students , which are conveniently provided with Stoves for their manner of living in that cold Country .
There is in it a small School for public Exercises , and a little Library belonging to their College ; the rest of the Students , except one hundred maintained by the King in small Colleges , live at Lodgings in the City , as at Leyden and other Universities abroad , who when the Swedes threatened them with a Bombardment in the year 1700 , formed themselves into a Batallion , and did Duty there , all the while the Enemy was on the Island of Zealand .
There are in this University , erected about two hundred years ago , about a thousand Students , and sometimes they have had near fifteen hundred .
The University Library , over one of their Churches , in one large Room , consists of several Libraries , the Gift of particular men which are kept apart , with the Benefactors names over them in Capital Letters .
The Royal Library , belonging to the King , consists of a great variety of Bocks , well conditioned and well chosen , of all Languages ; the Books of each Country being placed by themselves : The Room is large and well built , and has a large Gallery supported by Pillars on each side .
If Gudius 's Library at Gluckstadt be added to this , as I was told it wou 'd , this Library may be reckoned of the first Rank of the Europaean Libraries .
The Kings Chambers of Rarities are in all eight , large and well built over the Royal Library : They are furnished with great variety of Natural and Artificial Curiosities .
The first contains Coins and Medals , Gold and Silver ; Modern and Antique ; Graecian , Roman , Danish and Oldenburgh ; besides other Europaean Nations , distinctly kept by themselves , which make altogether a very valuable Collection .
Amongst the Natural Curiosities which are in the other Chambers , the most remarkable are ; 1 .
The Petrified Child : This is the same Child that Bartholine makes mention of in his Hist. Anat .
Paraeus , Licetus de Monstris , &amp;c. who at large will acquaint you with the History .
This happened at Sens in Champaign , anno 1582 .
when it was Cut out of its Mother 's Belly , where it was supposed to have lain about eight and twenty years .
That it 's an Humane Faetus , and not Artificial , is visible to our Eye .
The upper part of it is of a Gypseous Nature , not so hard as the lower , the Thighs and Buttocks being hard and perfect Stone as can be , of a Red Colour , and of a Grain and Superfice exactly like those I have seen taken out of the Bladder .
I had the Curiosity to have it near me ; and touched and felt it all over .
This was conveyed first to Paris , and there bought by a Goldsmith of Venice ; from whom at Venice , Frederick the Third , King of Denmark , purchased it , and added it to his Rarities .
2 .
Two Elephants Teeth , that weigh an hundred and fifty pounds apiece .
3 .
Several Heads of Hares , with divers sort of Horns , brought out of Saxony .
4 .
An Egg , said to be laid by a Woman , of the ordinary size of a Pullets Egg .
This Ol .
Wormius tells us was sent him by very good hands , and Confirmed by people of Credit : He tells us , the Woman brought forth two , with the usual Child-bed-labour Pains ; her Neighbours being called in to her assistance , the first they broke , and found a Yolk and a White , as in that of a Hen ; the second was kept and sent to him .
Vid. Mus. Worm .
p. M. 312 .
Jo. Rhod .
Gent .
3 .
obs .
57 .
5 .
The Horn of a Sea Unicorn , or Monoceros , so called by the Learned , because supposed to have but one : But sometimes more are found to grow out of the upper Jaw ; and I was credibly informed at Copenhagen , that one Koens , a Hamburger , brought home from Greenland the Head of one of these with two Horns on it .
And when I saw this , and Examined it well , I found this Horn ( part of the Head and upper Jaw being brought home with it , ) not to grow out of the Middle , but Left side of the upper Jaw ; so that it is probable there was a fellow , and then they may be said more properly to be his Teeth or Tusks than his Horns : Whither this was only a Lusus Naturae or no , or naturally these carry only one Horn , as they are represented in the Cuts and Figures our Naturalists give us of them , I shall not determine .
6 .
Several pieces of Gold Oar very rich , and some almost fine , dug out of the Mines of Norway and Hungary .
7 .
Several large pieces of Silver Oar , dug also out of the Mines of Norway , one of which weighed five hundred and sixty pounds , anno 1666 , five foot and six inches long , and four foot about , valued at five thousand Crowns : Another from Norway , also valued at three thousand two hundred seventy two Crowns .
I observed a great many Silver Threads or Trees sprouting out of these two pieces , and fancy the whole Mass had not above a fourth part of any baser Metal , Mineral or Earth mixed with it~ There are several of these Silver Ramifications or Trees , all from Norway , which I take to be Virgin Silver and pure Metal .
8 .
A great variety of very large pieces of Amber ; some dug out of the Island of Anaker near Copenhagen , and some when they were opening the Ditches for the Fortifications of Copenhagen : Some of these weigh about forty or ~ ounces , and were found every where sticking fast to pieces of black Timber like Ebony .
Whither~ Amber be of the ~ or Mineral Kingdom , wou 'd be too long a dispute at present to be determined ; all I shall say at this time on this matter is , That the Observations I made , when in Poland and Prussia , where I have seen great quantities fished out of the Sea every day , and dug out the Earth , incline me to the former ; nor can I conceive how those Animals , that are found entombed in Amber , and are most of them , if not all , Inhabitants of the surface of the Earth , shou 'd be caught in it , if it were only a Liquid when in the Bowels of the Earth .
9 .
A numerous Collection of very large Branches of Coral , White and Red , and one Black .
10 .
A large pair of Stags Horns growing out of a piece of Wood , after a very strange manner .
11 .
~ Branch of a Stags Horn , with a large piece of Wood naturally adhering to the top of it ; the top of the Horn piercing the very body of the Wood , and growing some Inches beyond it .
12 .
A Sheep , with a Horn growing out of its side about a foot long .
13 .
I measured the Thigh-bone of a Humane Body I suppose , that was three foot and three inches long ; the Head was two foot and five inches round , and the middle of it was nineteen inches and a half about .
14~ Two very large Scollop Shells , that weigh two hundred twenty four pounds each .
15 .
A piece of Marble , with a Natural representation of a Crucifix on its outside , mightily valued by the Lutherans .
And I remember Dr Hartman , who wrote de Succino Prussiaco , in the year eighty five , showed me at Koningsberg in Prussia , a piece of Whitish Amber , having a Woman with a Child in her Arms , prettily represented by variety of Colours on the Superfice ; I suspected it to be Artificial , al , but he assured me the contrary , and kept it very Religiously .
There were besides these ~ great many more Natural Rarities , which my short stay there would not permit me to examine .
Among the Artificial Curiosities , I observed , 1 .
A Skeleton made of Ivory in imitation of a Humane Skeleton , two foot and six inches long , so Artificially and Curiously put together , that any one well skilled in Osteology may take it for a Natural one .
2 .
Two Crucifixes of Ivory , with the whole History of our Saviour 's Passion , extremely well carved and expressed , and are both a very pretty Curiosity .
I saw there a great variety of Nicknacks made of Ivory , curiously wrought on the outside : A small Man of War of Ivory , with Silver Guns in it ; several small Sloops and Galleys of the same , and one of the Unicorns-Horn , with a Gold Anchor .
3 .
A Watch made of Ivory , with all its Wheels and Motions .
~ other Utensils made of Ivory and Unicorns Horn , prettily Carved and Turned : Besides some others of Ebony , Heart Oak , Box , Amber , Silver , Brass , &amp;c. which are kept together for the Curiosity of the Workmanship .
4 .
In another Chamber there is nothing but the Garments , Arms , and Utensils of Indians , Turks , Greenlanders , and other Barbarous Nations , which for their number and Variety entertain the Eye with a very agreeable Pleasure .
5 .
A~ of the late King of Denmark 's Family , the Queens ~ being in the middle , and eight Princes and Princesses round her , yet all Club to make the Face of the ~ , thro a hole of a Glass Tube .
6 .
Six Golden Sepulchral Urns , found in the Island of Fuenen , anno 1685 .
by a Boor there , as he was plowing his Land ; they were full of Ashes or a greyish Earth when found .
The biggest is two ounces and a half , the other five about two ounces and a drachm .
This confirms the accounts given us by Saxo Grammaticus , Olaus Wormius and others , that it was a very ancient Custom among the Northern Nations to burn their Dead , and then bury their Collected Ashes in Golden Urns .
They were very thin , and had three Rings of Gold round their Necks , and several Circles one within another , with one Common Center carved on the outside round the body of the Urn .
They held between four and five ounces of Liquids .
7 .
Another Sepulchral Urn of Crystal , of a Conical figure , found near Bergen in Norway about thirty years since , with a Gold Wire about it , that weighs eight ounces .
8 .
I saw in another Chamber several Urnae Lachrymales , in which were collected the Tears of Friends , which afterwards the old Romans mixed with the Ashes of the Dead : These were some of Glass , ~ some of Earth , and of several sizes .
Brass Lamps of several Magnitudes and Shapes ; some of other Metals , others of Earth , in the Shape of Animals or Idols , that were worshipped by the Ancients .
The Stilus AEneus of the Romans , the one end sharp , the other blunt , the first to write with , the other to rub out what was written .
9 .
The large Danish Horn of pure Gold , weighs an hundred two ounces and an half , is two foot and nine inches long , and holds about two quarts of our measure : This Horn was found anno 1639 .
accidentally by a Country Girl in the Diocese of Rippon in Jutland : It is , no doubt , some Runick piece of great Antiquity by the Figures carved on the outside , which seem to be Hieroglyphics , Monstrous Shapes of Devils , Hobgoblins , &amp;c. perhaps some of these might represent their Gods , and probably this Horn was used in their Sacrifices , as of old among the Assyrians and Gggggggg other other ancient Nations , who were wont on Solemn occasions to Entertain the Croud with mighty noises of Horns and Trumpets , or rather to drink out of at their Solemn Treats .
10 .
The Oldenburg Horn of pure Silver , gilt with Gold , and variously Enamelled with Green and Purple Colours , and weighs about four pounds .
The Danish Antiquaries tell us strange Fabulous Stories of this Horn , which I shall omit at present ; only observing , that whereas they say this Horn was given to Earl Otho of Oldenburg , anno 989 , by the Workmanship of it it is plain it cannot be of that date ; for the Figures and Characters Engraved and Embossed on its outside are Modern ; which , with the Enamelling and other Ornaments , all curiously done , please the sight mightily , and make a very fine , as well as valuable Curiosity .
I found in the same Chamber a great many Horns of this kind , some in Metal , some of Bullocks Horns tipped with Gold about the Edges , others of Ivory , Unicorns Horns , &amp;c. all prettily wrought on the outside with a great variety of Emblematical Fancies , according to the humours of those Countries and Times they were made in ; which were so many Cups to drink out of at their Solemn Entertainments ; and this of Oldenburg was finer than the rest , because designed for the Royal Table .
It is said to be made by Command of Christian the First , who lived in the fifteenth Century , and did it in honour of the three Kings of Cullein .
I went one day ashore on the Island of Weenen , which our Sailors call ~ Island , from a Tradition , that Q. ~ .
offered as much Scarlet Cloath for it as wou 'd cover it .
This Island is now an appendix to Schonen in Sweden , not above half a league from the Main Land .
Here I observed the Ruins of Tycho Brahe 's Castle , which he built on this Island , given him by King Ferdinand , who supplied him with Money for the carrying it on in the year 1567 .
This Castle was built in the middle of the Island , but is now demolished , molish 'd , and quite razed to the Ground , and all the Vaults and Under-ground Works filled up except the large Observatory , which Gassendus tells us , in the Life of this Noble Dane , was distinguished from all the rest of his Apartments under-ground , that were very many , by a solid round Stone Wall , part of which remains still .
This was his great Observatory , and was called by him Stellaeburgum , or the City of Stars ; as the Castle was Uraniburgum , or the City of the Heavens .
The Situation was pleasant no doubt , it being on a very little rising ground , in the middle of a plain Island , not above three miles round .
The same Author tells us , the King of Denmark 's Liberality was so great towards this Learned man , that the best Workmen were employed about it , and every thing well contrived both for pleasure and conveniences of room , for Instruments and Astronomical Observations above and under ground , besides noble Gardens , Fish-ponds and a Park : But the Fate of War between Sweden and Denmark , sometimes one being Master , and sometimes the other , of this Island , no one Stone is left of this Magnificent Superstructure .
His Instruments , that were very fine , are now scattered up and down in Germany , and some few remain in Copenhagen ; his own Celestial Globe I saw there in the Rown Tower , which was six foot and three quarters in Diameter .
This Tower was built 1601 .
for the making Astronomical Observations , near the Royal College in Copenhagen , and is above a hundred and fifty foot high , whose Area on the top is sixty foot diameter : The passage up to it is large enough for two Coaches , and the Ascent so easy and hardly perceivable , that it served for a place of Parade for their Gentry , when they had a mind to take the Air in their Coaches , riding up to the top , and so round the Ring , as well as for an Observatory .
But Monsieur Romer , the great Mathematician and Astronomer of the present Age , has converted the upper part of this Tower now to other uses , where in a dark Room he Gggggggg2 has has his Instruments for observation .
Here I saw his Ma~ for observing the Stars by day : There is a~~ or ten foot long , erected perpendicular in the Center of an Equinoctial Plain ; on the top of this Pole is fastened a Telescope , not much above three foot long , which runs thro ' the Roof of the Chamber , whose Elevation is directed by an Astronomical Dial upon the Equinectial Plain , with an Index fitted to it for that purpose , which determines it to the Star he has a mind to observe at any time .
He is said to be the Inventer of two other Machines of great artifice and use : By the one he will show at any time the Station of any Planet , according to the Copernican Hypothesis ; by the other he will demonstrate all the Eclipses of Sun or Moon past or to come .
There is besides all these , in the Kings House in the Garden at Copenhagen , a Royal Throne all of Unicorns Horn , on which all the Kings of Denmark are seated at their Coronation ; but this , when I was there , with the ~ of the Regalia , was secured and carried away , because they wou 'd have been too much exposed had the King of Sweden Bombarded this Town , as it was feared , when he landed on the Island , being but a little within the Wall towards the Land side .
In the year 1685 .
I was at Koningsberg in Prussia , where I saw the Knife which was swallowed by a Prussian Boor ; who being Crop-sick one morning , thrust the ~ of his Knife down his Throat , in order to make himself discharge what offended his Stomach ; but forcing the Knife too far , it slipped down his Gullet into his Stomach : from whence it was taken out by an Incision on the Left side , a little below ~ Short Ribs , with that success , that he lived several years after it in very good health .
This happened in the year 1635 .
The Operation was performed by Dr Daniel ~ , a Physician and Surgeon , and the Knife is kept in a Velvet Bag in the King of Prussia 's Library , where I saw it .
I measured it by an English Foot Rule I had then in my Pocket , and found it to be of our measure but six Inches and about a half long , as it is expressed in the Cuts given us of it .
What their Authors mean , by saying the Knife was decem transversos digitos longum , I do n't know ; but this has made the Story ridiculous to a great many people , who will hardly be persuaded , that any body can pass through the fornix palati , or Vault of his Mouth , a Knife of that length in a right line .
I made enquiry concerning it , and was very well assured by several people of the Town the matter of fact was true ; and it is hard to think , the King of Poland , who was then at Koningsberg , the Government of the City , and the College of Physicians , who were consulted upon the Operation ; and , together with his Polish Majesty , were Eye~ witnesses of it , shou 'd by the Certificates they have published of it in Print , Contrive to impose a Cheat upon the World .
And I remember , talking one day with one Mr Taylor , a Scotch Merchant in Koningsberg , he told me , that Andrew Grunheide , for that was the mans name , was his particular Friend and Acquaintance ; that he saw his Wound several times when his Surgeons dressed him , and was Godfather to one or two of his Children after his Recovery .
When I was last in Amsterdam , I had the Curiosity to go to a Tavern , where the Master was very Curious in Birds , and had a great variety of some very uncommon ones ; amongst which , in a Chamber by itself , he showed me a Cage with a Bird in it a little ~ than a Capon , which he valued as a great Rarity~ and told me it cost him near a hundred pounds Sterling : He takes a~ from every body that is admitted to see it .
I must needs say I never saw a more beautiful Creature in all my life ; in Body somewhat like a Hawk , but its Head and Neck bald like a Vulture , only a few short Feathers over his Eyes like Eye-brows , his Eyes were pretty large , and the Iris of a very fine bright Pearl Colour , which gave a~ beauty to this Bird .
The Colour of his Feathers is so curiously mixed with that variety that no ~ can ~ them , and entertains the Eye with a great deal of pleasure : His Bill and Head ~ shape are more like the Eagle than the Vulture , tho I take it to be of the kind of the latter , but of the lesser sort .
This Bird came from Carthagena in America , and may be described thus : Vulture Americanus minor Carthagenae Corpore ~ &amp; plumis admodum Concinne variegatis .
I presume this Bird can hardly be of the same kind with those Vulturs Monardes tells us of in the Islands near Lima in Peru , that preyed on their living Cattel in the Fields , if not carefully watched by their Keepers .
did not see the Cherry-stone in the King of Denmark 's Cabinet , which I was told had some hundreds of Heads engraved on the outside of it ; but I remember an English Gentleman showed me once in Holland , in the year 87 , a Cherry-stone of this kind with a hundred and twenty four Heads on the outside of it , so that you might distinguish with the naked Eye , Popes , Emperors , Kings and Cardinals , by their Crowns and Mitres .
It was bought in Prussia , where it was made for three hundred pounds English , and is now in London , there having been a Law-suit not long ~ commenced about it in Chancery .
Whither this or any Artificial Curiosities before-mention 'd of Ivory , &amp;c. may compare with Homer in a Nutshell ?
or the Ivory Ants and other small Creatures said to be made by Callicrates , whose parts were so very small , that no body cou 'd see them , so as to distinguish one from another , but he that made them ?
or the Ivory Chariot made by Mermecides , which a Fly covered with his Wing , and a Ship of the same hid under the Wing of a Bee ?
And if those things be true , as Pliny and Solinus tells us , whether the Ancients have not outdone us in such kind of Impertinencies , I submit to your Judgment .

