320 Mr. A. Tribe .
Experimental Researches [ Jan 20 In some other respects also , the examination may he said to ha I borne fruit : for occasion was taken to determine the weights and !
dimensions of parts , and to show the degree of accuracy which mitrht be looked for in such an instrument , supposing it capable of fn1fiiKn its intended purpose .
Some defects of construction also of a general character have been pointed out which may serve as hints to future constructors .
It should be said in conclusion , that so much of the present paper as deals with Broun 's gravimeter in particular , was prepared and submitted as a report in the first instance , to the India Office , and that it was communicated to the Society for publication , by permission of the Secretary of State for India in Council .
What may be called the historical part was subsequently added , by way of introduction , to make it more worthy of that honour .
II .
" Experimental Researches into Electric Distribution as manifested by that of the Radicles of Electrolytes .
" By Alfred Tribe , F.I.O. , Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College .
Communicated by Dr. Gladstone , F.R.S. Received December 15 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) The paper is divided into three principal parts ; the distribution of the ions of copper sulphate on silver plates ; analogies between the distribution of ions and that of static electricity ; and analysis of electrolytic fields .
When a solution of copper sulphate is electrolysed with silver electrodes , the negative electrode becomes covered with a deposit of copper , the positive with a coating of silver peroxide .
The author has shown that if a metallic rod or plate is placed lengthwise between the electrodes in a liquid undergoing electrolysis , the plate does work identical in kind with that being done by both electrodes .
It follows that a silver plate in copper sulphate will be found coated on one part with copper , and on the other with silver peroxide .
The superficial distributions of these ions were examined .
A rectangular electrolytic cell , a solution of copper sulphate , and copper electrodes were employed .
The electrodes were of the same breadth and depth as the cell .
In the centre of the liquid , lengthwise and perpendicular to the electrodes , a plate of thin sheet silver was fixed .
In all cases the distributions of the two ions on the plates or even on bodies of various other shapes , were invariably unsymmetrical , the negative ion generally spreading further than the positive .
The disinto Electric Dis , Sc. 1881 .
] ributions are the same when the experiment is begun with a plate covered with either ion , or when the action is continued for a longer am .
But a change in the strength of solution , or in temperature , or in strength of current alters the distributions .
Speaking generally , ihere is an increase in the range of the positive ion with increase of temperature , increase of current strength , and decrease in strength of solution ; while the range of the negative ion decreases with increase of temperature , increases to a certain extent with increase of current , and varies irregularly in the case of change in the strength of solution .
The mutual influence of plates , end to end and side by side , the distribution on open tubes , and on plates encircled by them or copper gauze , show general analogies with what is known of the action of static electricity .
As long as the plates are perpendicular to the electrodes , the distributions of one ion on the two sides is the same , but when the plate forms an angle with a line joining the electrodes , this no longer holds true , and the boundary lines of the same ion become markedly concave on one side and convex on the other .
With plates parallel to the electrodes , hardly any action took place until the shape of the plate was altered , and it is shown that the relation between the length and breadth of a plate of given area has a very material effect in determining the accumulation and distribution .
And it was also found that the surface of a plate in this position for a measurable distance from its edges , and still more from its angular projections , shows no signs of electrification even when the body of the plate does so to a sensible degree .
These results afford a new basis for investigating the field of electrolytic action both as regards physical differences and the relative direction in which the action is transmitted .
* With electrodes of the same breadth and depth as the cell , the same distributions were obtained in different parts of the field of action , but when the electrodes were not of the same breadth and depth as the cell , differences were obtained in absolutely corresponding parts of the field .
These differences increased as the electrodes became narrower .
It is evident that the smaller electrodes give a non-homogeneous field .
The distributions are altered by the interposition of an ebonite screen between an electrode and an analysing plate even in a field otherwise homogeneous , and some instances of this are given .
Analogies are found between the effect of these screens and that produced by diminishing the size of the electrodes .
The distributions are divisible into two classes\#151 ; parallel and nonparallel .
The first class includes all cases which show a similarity in the distribution on the two sides of the analysing plate ; the second Mr. G. Hi Darwin .
[ Jan. 2\lt ; class , all cases which show a difference in the configuration of th boundaries on the two sides of the plate .
All the distributions in th experiments with different temperatures , strengths of solution and \lt ; j current , belong to the first class ; also those distributions obtained i the non-homogeneous fields , and with ebonite screens .
On analysing a non-homogeneous field of larger dimensions , paralh distributions were obtained all along a line running between thi electrodes , as well as along a central line at right angles to this .
Bit for some distance from the electrodes at the ends , the plates showeii non-parallel distributions .
The paper concludes by drawing attention to the simplicity of tin method , and the permanent form of the self-recorded results , ant indicates the direction in which it is desirable to extend the research .
III .
" On the Tidal Friction of a Planet attended by several Satellites , and on the Evolution of the Solar System .
" By G. H. Darwin , F.R.S. Received December 27 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) The first part of the paper contains the investigation of the changes produced by tidal friction in a system consisting of a planet with any number of satellites revolving round it in circular orbits .
The planet 's equator and the satellites ' orbits are all supposed to be in one plane .
The planet is formed of homogeneous viscous fluid , but a large part of the results , due to the particular sort of tidal friction which arises in this special case , would be equally true under a more general hypothesis as to the nature of the planet .
The mutual perturbations of the satellites are neglected , so that only the rotation of the planet and the distances of the satellites have to be considered .
It is then proved that if E be the whole energy , both kinetic and potential , of the system , and if f be a function of the distance of any one of the satellites from the planet ( which function , when the mass of the satellite is small compared with that of the planet , is the f- power of the distance ) , the equation expressive of the rate of change of f is dt " ' bg where t is the time , A a certain constant , and b expresses partial differentiation .
A similar equation applies to each satellite , and the whole of the equations form a system of simultaneous differential equations , which

