VII .
An Account of a new invented arithmetical Instrument called a Shwan-pan , or Chinese Accompt-Table ; by Gamaliel Smethurst .
THE Chinese have for many Ages picqu 'd themselves on being the most wise of any Nation in the World ; but late Experience and closer Converse with them hath found this Pride to be ill-grounded .
One Particular , in which they think they excel all Mankind , is , their Manner of accompting , which they do with an Instrument composed of a Number of Wires with Beads upon them , which they move backwards and forwards .
ThisInstrument they call a Shwan-pan .
Read Jan. 29 .
1748 .
Now I trust I have formed one on the Plan of our 9 Digits , that in no case falls short of the Chinese Shwan pan , but in many excels theirs .
The Chinese , according to the Accounts of Travellers , are so happy as to have their Parts of an Integer in their Coins , &amp; c. decimated , so can multiply or divide their Integers and Parts as if they were only Integers .
This gives them the Advantage over Europeans in reckoning their Money , &amp; c. But then , as they have no particular Place set apart for the lesser Denominations of Coins , Weights , Measures , &amp; c. their Instrument ca n't be used in Europe , nor can it be so universally applied to Arithmetic as mine , for I have provided for the different Divisions of an Integer into Parts .
This Instrument hath the Advantage of our Digits in a great many Cases .
First , the Figures can be felt , so may be used by a blind Man .
If it had no other , this alone would be sufficient to gain it the Attention of Mankind .
Another Advantage from it is , that , when attained , this Method is much swifter than by our Digits , and less liable to Mistakes : It is likewise not so burdensome to the Memory in working the Rules of Arithmetic , as by our Digits , we being obliged to carry the Tens in the Mind from one Place to another , which are set down by the Shwan-pan .
One may work a whole Night , without confusing the Head , or affecting the Eyes in the least .
It may be of great use to teach People the Power of Numbers , likewise to examine Accompts by ; for , as the Person will , by the Shwan-pan , work it a quite different Way , it will serve as if another Person had gone thro ' the Account ; if it proves right with the written one , they may rest assured the Work is true .
It may be a very pretty Lure to lead young People to apply their Minds to Numbers .
The Inventor produced one of these Instruments before the Society , and worked several Questions in Arithmetic upon it .
It much resembles the Abacus of the Ancients .
C. M.

