[ " 3 ] VIJI .
A catalogue of nebulae and clusters of stars in the southern hemisphere , observed at Paramatta in New South Wales , by JAMES DUNLOP , Esq. In a letter addressed to Sir THOMAS MAKDOUGALL BRISBANE , Bart. K.C.B. late Governor of New South Wales .
Presented to the Royal Society by JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL , Esq. Vice President .
Read December 20 , 18.27 .
THE following nebulae and clusters of stars in the southern hemisphere were observed by me at my house in Paramatta , situated about 6 " of a degree south and about Is.78 of time east of the Brisbane Observatory .
The observations were made in the open air , with an excellent 9-feet reflecting telescope , the clear aperture of the large mirror being nine inches .
This telescope was occasionally fitted up as a meridian telescope , with a strong iron axis firm-ly attached to the lower side of the tube nearly opposite the cell of the large mirror , and the ends of the axis rested in brass Y 's , which were screwed to blocks of wood let into the ground about 18 inches , and projecting about 4 inches above the ground ; one end of the axis carried a brass semicircle divided into half degrees and read off by a vernier to minutes .
The position and , index error of the instrument were ascertained by the passage of known stars .
The eye end of the telescope was raised or lowered by a cord over a pulley attached to a strong wooden post let into the ground about two feet : with this apparatus I have observed a sweep of eight or ten degrees in breadth with very little deviation of the instrument from the plane of the meridian , and the tremor was very little even with a considerable magnifying power .
I made drawings or representations of a great number of the nebula and clusters at the time of observation , several of which are annexed to this paper ; and also very correct drawings of the Nebule major and minor , together with a representation of the milky nebulosity surrounding the star n Robur Caroli .
The places of the NEBULiE AND small stars in the Nebulae major and minor , and also those accompanying the n Robur Caroli , I ascertained by the mural circle in the year 1825 , at which time I was preparing to commence a general survey of the southern hemisphere .
These stars being laid down upon the chart , enabled me to delineate the nebulosity very accurately .
The nebulae are arranged in the order of their south polar distances to the nearest minute for 1827 , and in zones for each degree in the order of their right ascension .
The column on the right hand shows the number of times the object has been observed .
The reductions and arrangement have been principally made since my return to Europe ; and I trust this catalogue of the nebulve will be found an acceptable addition to that knowledge which the Brisbane observatory has been the means of putting the world in possession of , respecting that important and hitherto but little known portion of the heavens .
No. Are S.P.D. Description of the Nebulae and Stars .
Noof hms014 13 0 12 14 A very small faint round nebula , about 12 " diameter , with a very minute star south following dist. 11 ... ... ... ..1 ... ... 20 33 6 15 41 A faint nebula , about 1 ' long , irregular figure , rather branched .
This is involved in the margin of the Nebula minor ... ... ... ... ... 130 41 8 15 59 A small round nebula , about 12"I diameter ... ... ... ... ... ... 1 ... .
40 42 19 15 56 A faint round nebula , about 30 " diameter.1 50 47 12 15 46 A small faint nebula , about 10"1 or 12 " diameter ... ... ... ... ... ... I60 47 39 15 36 A faint nebula , about 20"1 diameter.1 ... ... ... I719 32 15 46 A faint round nebula , 35 " diameter , with a small star near the south r margin , but not involved ... ... ... ... ... ..1 ... ... ... 0 ... ... . .
181 10 23 15 48 A small oval nebula , about 10l diameter ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0 ... .
191 12 37 15 44 A faint nebula , about 1- ' diameter , of an irregular round figure ... ... ... 2 10 1 13 43 15 51 An elliptical nebula , about 1 ' long and 40"f broad , with three minute stars in it ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... The Nebula Minor , to the naked eye , has very much the appearance of a small cirrus-cloud ; and through the telescope , it has very much the appearance of one of thebrighter portions of the milky way , although it is not so rich in stars of all the variety of small magnitudes , with which the brighter parts of the .
milky way in general abound , and -therefore it is probably a beautiful specimen of the nebulosity of which the remote portion of that magnificent zone is composed .
Plate IV .
is a very correct drawing of the nebula , which if faithfully represented by the engraver , will convey a better idea of it than I could possibly hope to do by words .
Its situation in the heavens is between 0h 27 ' and 111 6 ' or 7 ' in right ascension , and between 740 30 ' and 720 53 ' in south declination .
Its position is oblique to the equator , south preceding and north following ; and its form is nearly that of a parallelogram about two degrees long and fully one degree broad , and may be arranged according to its natural general appearance , into bright , faint and very faint nebulosity .
The bright nebula forms the south extremity and the preceding side , and is equal to the breadth of the nebula at the south end , and gradually diminishing in breadth and brightness till it terminates in an accumulationi of the nebulous matter in the north extremity .
The bright portion of the nebulous matter is not uniformly bright , but has something the appearance of small cumularclouds , although not very decidedly marked , and which I cannot well delineate .
The faint nebula which is on the following side , is broad at the : north extremity and gradually diminishing in breadth to where , With the other faint shade , it joins the following side of the brighter portion of the nebula , near the south extremity .
The very faint shade is also : on the following side , and extends from the northern to the southern extremity of the nebula , and is rather more strongly marked at what I would call its terminating border , than where it joins or blends with the faint shade ; and I susspect it is faintly , co ected with a patch of faint nebula which follows at : a little distance , and is represented .
in the figure .
There .
are two pretty bright small nebulae situated in the following margin of the bright shade , and a considerable number of faint nebulve and accumu lations of the nebulous matter variously situated throughout , and also in the patch which follows ; but they are described in the general catalogue .
u 2 The figure of the Nebula Major is so irregular , and divided into so many 'parcels , that without the assistance of letters of reference it will be impossible for me to attempt a description .
However , the appearance and construction of the different nebulae which compose it , are more minutely described in the general catalogue .
I will here only attempt to describe the apparent connection of one portion or branch of the nebulous matter with another .
I find the existence of extensively diffused faint nebulosity throughout a great portion of this quarter of the heavens , from the Robur Caroli to the Nebula Major , and I can even trace its existence in the vicinity of Nebula Minor .
The Nebula Major is situated between 4h 46 ' and 6b 3 ' in right ascension , and between 660 30 ' and 71 ? ?
30 ' of south declination ; but the body or principal portion of the nebula is situated between 5 " 7 ' and 5 " 40 ' in right ascension , and between 690 and 710 of south declination , and is composed of very strong bright nebula , very rich in small nebulae and clustering stars of all the variety of small magnitudes : I compared this portion of the nebula with Sobieski 's Shield , which in this latitude is near the zenith .
The observation says , " The Nebula Major very much resembles the brightness in Sobieski 's Shield ; it is scarcely so large , but I think it is equally bright .
" Another observation says , " The ridge or brighter portion of Nebula Major is more condensed than the Shield .
" Plate V. is a correct representation of Nebula Major .
The bright ridge or body of the nebula is extended obliquely to the equator , north preceding and south following , and the following extremity breaks off rather suddenly , faint , decreasing in brightness in a south following direction to the distance of fully a degree and a half towards the star 3 , which is slightly involved in the narrow extremity : preceding the star marked r , a considerable increase of the brightness of the nebulous matter takes place ; another accumulation takes place at z about 15 ' diameter .
There is a small star north with a small nebula preceding , but neither of them are involved in the accumulation of the nebulous matter .
Z and s are connected by streams of unequal brightness , s is pretty large and is rich in small stars and nebulae : opposite i and Ad towards the principal body of the nebula , the nebulous matter is very faint and of unequal brightness ; s is south following a beautiful group of nebulae of various forms and magnitudes , on a ground of strong nebulosity common to all , with the 30 Doradus ( Bode ) in the centre .
South of the 30 Dorad-hs a pretty bright accumulation of the nebulous matter takes place , extended , preceding and following , and is joined by pretty strong nebula to the arm z , which proceeds in a northerly direction from the body of the nebula ; the bright star near the north extremity of the arm is not involved in the bright nebula .
Between the arms X and x the nebula is very faint , and the bright accumulations of the nebulous matter on the north side are all connected together by nebulosity of various brightness , and are connected to the main body by the arms X and X &lt; ; and I strongly suspect the nebula at P is connected by very faint nebula with the group surrounding the 30 Doradftis .
The accumulation of the nebulous matter at a is connected with the preceding extremity of the body of the nebula , by nebula increasing in brightness towards the neck of the body , but I cannot say that the % is connected with the if Two arms proceed from the neck towards the south , which are connected by faint nebula between them , which gradually increases in brightness towards the junction of the arms ; between the arm n and the body the nebulosity is faint , of various shades of brightness , and from the arms n and P. to the head the nebulosity is of various degrees of brightness .
I have made a very good general representation of the various appearances of the milky way , from the Robur Caroli to where it crosses the zenith in Scorpio .
Plates VI .
VII .
and VIII .
This was generally made by the naked eye , except in particular places where I suspected an opening or separation of the nebulous matter , when I applied the telescope .
However , the dark space on the east side of the Cross , or the black cloud as it is called , is very accurately laid down by the telescope : the darkness in this space is occasioned by a vacancy or want of stars ; it contains only two or three of the 7th magnitude , and very few of the 8th or 9th magnitude .
I may here remark that the Nebula Minor is not so bright as the ; Nebula Major .
Neither of the two nebulae , Major and Minor , are at present in the place assigned to them by LACAILLE ; and it has been suspected that nebulous appearances change their form and also their situation .
Yet , although the situation of these nebule , as given by LACAILLE and compared with their present situation , would be favourable to such a surmise , still we must consider the dimensions of the instruments with which he made his observations , and make a reasonable allowance .
However , the 30 Doradu 's is at present involved in pretty strong and pretty bright nebula , and is also situated very near the brightest part of the Nebula Major ; and it would be singular if its -relative situation was the same when LACAILLE -observed it as it -at -present is ; , that -he should have assigned to it a place in the Dorado and not in the Nebula Major , to which , from its nature , it was -not .
only nearly allied , but in which it was actually involved .
This circumstance , itmust be confessed , is favourable to .
the conjecture and the 47 .
Toucani 'is similarly situated , with respect to -distance , from the Nebula Minor , although it isi not involved in nebulosity or connected with the nebula .
When reflecting on these circumstances , I was led to examine the present state of .
these nebulk , and find " that scarcely any nebula exist in a high , state of condensation , and ver yfew in a state of moderate condensation towards the centre .
A , considerable number appear a little brighter towards the centre , and several have minute bright points immediately at the centre .
Others have smalltor very minute stars variously situated in them , but many of those bright points in , or near , the centre may be stars for the Nebula Major in particular is very rich in small stars .
Butthe greater number of the nebula appear only like condensations of the general nebulous matter , into faint nebulve of various forms .
and : magnitudes , generally not well defined ; and many of the larger nebulous appearances are resolvable into stars of mixed small magnitudes ; and a great portion of the large cloud is resolvable into innumerable stars of all the variety of small magnitudes with strong nebula remaining , , very similar tolthe brighter parts of the milky way .
And whether the remaining nebulous appearance may not be occasioned by millions of stars disguised by their distance , is whatJI cannot say .
But a critical examination of these nebulae would not only be a valuable treasure for the present generation to possess , but an invaluable inheritance for them to transmit to posterity .
For it must be by the comparison of observations , made at distant periods of time , that we can draw any satisfactory conclusions concerning the breaking up or the greater condensation of the nebulous matter .
It seems beyond a doubt that stars must assume a nebulous appearance whenl situated at immense distances ; but whether all nebulous appearances are occasioned by stars , is a problem apparently beyond the reach of man to resolve , without the assistance of analogy , which ought not to be trusted too freely , especially with objects almost equally beyond the reach of our hands and telescopes .
Several of the very faint and delicate nebulae can be resolved into stars , and also many of the brighter nebulae are composed of stars : but there are a greater number which have not yet been resolved or shown to consist of stars ; and it is not improbable , that " shining matter may exist in a state different from that of the starry .
" JAMES DUNLOP .
P.S. Plate IX .
has been added , at the suggestion of Mr. HERSCHEL , to illustrate the distribution of the Southern Nebulae .
The nebulae are laid down without any regard to their form , magnitude , brightness , or nature ; and but little to their strict places , only so far as to cause every rectangular space on the map , which occupies one degree in Polar distance and one hour in Right ascension , to contain the same number of nebulae as actually occur in the heavens , according to the observations detailed in this paper ; the object of the plate being solely to give an idea of their arrangement generally in the heavens .

