March 21 , 1844 .
The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
" A description of certain Belemnites , preserved , with a great proportion of their soft parts , in the Oxford clay at Christian Malford , Wilts .
" By Richard Owen , Esq. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. , Hunterian Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in the Royal College of Surgeons .
The author describes , in the present paper , specimens of Belemnite , discovered in the Oxford-clay at Christian Malford , Wilts , and which are remarkable for the preservation of many of the soft parts of the animal .
After alluding to the various opinions promulgated by different authors respecting the nature and affinities of this extinct animal , he adverts more especially to the discovery of the inkbag of the Belemnite , which was published in the Zoological Transactions , vol. ii .
, and in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology ( Art .
Cephalopoda ) .
This discovery led him , on the strength of deductions from the physiological relations of this organ , to remove the Belemnite from the Polythalamacea of De Blainville , and place it in the higher order of the naked Cephalopods .
The structure of the shell is next discussed , and the spathose dart , or guard , is proved to be the result of original organization , both by its microscopic structure and by the fact that the chambers of the phragmocone have not been infiltrated by mineral substance in any of the specimens described : the name phragmocone being applied to the chambered and siphonated conical division of the compound shell of the Belemnite ; and the term alveolus being restricted , in the present paper , to the socket or cavity at the base of the guard , in which the phragmocone is lodged .
A detailed description is given of the sheath of the phragmocone and of the structure of the chambers .
The state of preservation of the present specimens has enabled the author to describe the form and extent of the mantle-its continuation over the exterior of the shell , and the arrangement of its muscular fibres .
The animal is provided with two lateral fins of a semi-oval figure , which are attached to the middle of the mantle , in advance of the spathose dart .
The muscular fibres of the fins , the infundibulum and its muscles are next described ; and also the head , the eyes , which are large and sessile , and the cephalic arms , which are eight in number ; together with traces of two slender superadded tentacula .
The ordinary arms are furnished with a double alternate row of sharp horny hooks , as in some existing species of Onychoteuthis , but the arms are relatively longer .
'Their muscular structure is traced in the fossil specimens , and compared with that in the recent Decapoda .
The ultimate , or primitive fibres of the muscles of the Belemnite agree in size with those in the Onychoteuthis ; but the character of the transverse striee , which is feebly developed in the primitive muscular fibre of the Cephalopods , is not preserved in the fossil .
Of the interior organs of the Belemnite , besides the ink-bag and duct , which had been before discovered by Drs. Buckland and Agassiz , the remains of the horny lining of the gizzard are preserved in the present fossils .
Thus the deduction that the higher , or dibranchiate type of Cephalopodal organization is necessarily associated with the presence of the atramental apparatus , is established by the demonstration , in these fossil Belemnites , of a fleshy mantle , enclosing the shell , ' and provided with a pair of muscular fins , of large and sessile eyes , and of few , but large and complex cephalic arms .
The author concludes by pointing out the more immediate affinities of the Belemnites , and showing that it combines characteristics which are now divided amongst distinct genera : as , for example , first , a complex internal shell , divisible into the same principal parts as that of the Sepia , but one of which has , secondly , the same essential chambered structure as the shell of the Spirula ; thirdly , uncinated cephalic arms , as in the Onychoteuthis ; and lastly , an advanced position of rounded fins , as in the Spirula and Rossia .
The paper is illustrated by drawings of the specimens described , with microscopic views of the shell and muscular tissue , and a restoration of the Belemnite according to the data afforded by the present fossils .

