An Investigation of all the Changes of the variable Star in Sobieski 's Shield , from five Years ' Observations , exhibiting its proportional illuminated Parts , and its Irregularities of Rotation ; with Conjectures respecting unenlightened heavenly Bodies , By Edward Pigott , E]sq .
In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. Read February 7 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 131 .
] Mr. Pigott , some years ago , presented to the Royal Society a paper , which is printed in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1797 , on the periodical changes of brightness of two fixed stars .
The first part of the present paper consists of a series of observations made since those of the former paper , during the space of nearly five years , on one of the said stars , namely , that in Sobieski 's Shield .
These observations are fully detailed in various tables ; and mean results are deduced from the observations given in the former paper , and from those described in the present one .
The results are as follows:-Rotation of the star on its axis , 62 days.-Duration of brightness at its imaxiinum , without any perceptible change , 9| d ays -Duration of brightness when it does not attain its usual brightness , 20 days.-.Dur'ation of brightness at its minimum , without any perceptible change , 9 days.-Ditto when it does not decrease so much as usual , 20 days.-Decrease in time , from the middle of its full brightness to the middle of its least , 33 days.-Increase of time , from the middle of its least brightness to the middle of its full , 29 days.-Extremes of its different degrees of brightness , 5th to 9th magnitude.-Mean of its usual variation , 5th to 6th magnitude .
In the second part of this paper Mr. Pigott proceeds to examine some of the other phenomena belonging to this star , particularly one which , he says , is common to most of the variables , and likewise in some degree to our sun , namely , that the times of their periodical returns of brightness are , in general , irregular .
In hopes of making some discovery respecting the cause of these irregularities , or at least of assisting futture astronomers to form some opinion respecting them , Mr. Pigott made a series of observations on the star here treated of , beginning in October 1795 , and ending in October 1801 .
These observations are detailed at full length in two tables ; and it appears from them , that the periodical returns of brightness are uncommonly fluctuating , and that the differences between the extremes are very considerable .
Mr. Pigott then , by way of explanation , offers the following opinions and inferences .
1st .
That the bodies of the stars are dark and solid .
2ndly .
That their real rotation on their axes is regular , following unlifornm impulses , 3rdly , That the surrounding medium does , at times , generate and absorb its luminous particles , in a manner nearly similar to that which Dr. Herschel has supposed to take place with regard to the sun 's atmosphere .
4thly .
That as the variable star in Sobieski 's Shield is occasionally diminished in appearance to the 6th or 7th magnitude , or even to a smaller magnitude , it appears that these luminous particles are but sparingly dispersed in its atmosphere .
5thly .
He asks , may we not with much plausibility represent such luminous particles as spots , somewhat circular , and of no great extent .
6thly .
That the principal bright parts are but slight patches , may , he says , be presumed , from the perpetual changes they undergo , and also from such changes being very visible to us .
7thly .
He thinks we may obtain some idea of the relative situation or intervals between these bright parts , by the observations of the increase and decrease of brightness , as thereby the changes and times elapsed are pointed out .
Mr. Pigott says he has tried , practically , the effect of the above suppositions , by placing small white spots on a dark sphere , which sphere being turned round , represented the various changes as nearly as could be expected .
Of these changes several views are given , accompanied with some observations on variable stars in general ; in the course of which the author supposes it probable that many stars have lost their light , and that there are many others which have never shown a glimpse of brightness .
He even asks , whether we may not suppose the number of these unlenlightened stars equal to that of those endowed with light ?
If so , he thinks that by being collected together in clusters , as in the Milky Way , they must intercept all more distant rays ; and if free from any intervening lights , must appear as dark spaces in the heavens , similar to what has been observed in the southern hemisphere .
Mr. Pigott , at the conclusion of his paper , says he thinks there are strong reasons to believe that the sun 's luminous appearance has been at times considerably diminished ; also , that he has little hesitation in conceiving it may , at some future period , be reduced to small patches .

