]\gt ; Mr. .
J. Bless .
On the Openings in the V effect of mixing equal volumes of hydrogen and helium , each of which has too large a coefficient of elasticity , is to cause each to occupy twice the volume that they previously occupied , and to halve approximately the pressure each .
The pressure is therefore lower than it would bs for an absolutcly ideal gas , for each gas , hydrogen and helium .
The sum of these pressures will accordingly be too low , or transposing , the sum of the volumes will be too great .
The opposite argument holds for air .
Now , in considering volumes we deal not merely with the -volume , i.e. , the space occupied by the molecules , but also with the inter .
stitial space inhabited by ths molecuIes .
But the refractive power , if Clausius 's deduction from the formula of Lorenz and Lorentz is correct , is a function of the diclectric constant , and hence of the -volumes of the gases .
And here discrepancy is more easily detected than by any determination of density .
It must therefore be concluded that gases not , as postulated by Dalton , indifferent to one another 's presence , bnt that they modify one another 's properties in the same manner as do liquids , though to a different extent .
This mutual action at high pressures and small volumes modifies even the volume relations , as recently shown by Dr. Kuenen .
And it must persist at low prcssures and large ] umes , though it may not always be possible to make measurements of pressure and volume accurate enough to lead to its detection .
The refractivity , however , seems to be a means delicate enough to be used for this purpose .
On the Openings in the Wall of the Body-cavity of Vertebrates By DWARD J. BLLS , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , King 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. HANS GADOW , F.R.S. Received June \mdash ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
In the review of the vertebrates held in the following pages , I have put together as many facts as I could on the distribution of abdominal pores in the various groups , and side by side with this evidence I have arraIlged the available facts recorded by others , and observed by myseIf , on the ribution of nephrostomes other openings on the wall of the abdominal cavity .
By so doing , the physiological meaning of the abdomiual pores has , I believe , been elucidated through the evideIIce of a correlation , speaking generally , of an alternative character , between these two sets of ol.gans .
It will further appear that in most of the higher verteb \mdash ; where pores do not occur and nephrostomes disappear early in development or Iose heir original con1lection with the reoal ducts - body-cavity has taken upon itself a different function character .
Instead of acting as anxiliary to the excretory , it takes part in the internal work of the circulato lymphatic s.vstem .
Wall of the Body-c nvity of Vertebrates .
The greater part of the information on the openings from the perivisceral cavity to the exterior the Elasmobranchii is contained in two pape ] ; one by Semper , the urogenital system of Pl giostomes , the other , by Bridge , on " " Pori Abdominales of Vertebrata.\ldquo ; Semper describes the persistence in certain Elasmobranchs of a nulnber of open segmental funnels on the peritoneal elium leading into the Malpighian bodies of the mesonephros .
Such funnels occur in all Elasmobranch embryos , but usually close during development .
Semper gives lists of species with and without nephrostomes when aduIt , and shows that their cannot be correlated with the presence or absence of other organs , among which he did not , however , refer to the abdominal pores .
Bridge was the first to examine a number of Elasmot ) lanchs expressly to determiue the distributio1l of abdominal pores amongst the species of these fishes .
He states it was " " not clear that the presence or absence of the pores can be cor elated with structural variations in other organs I was led to Semper 's and Bridge 's accounts of the distribution of nephrostomes and abdominal pores , and it at once became evident that their presence in anchs was , to a certain extent , reciprocal .
A few discrepancies which appeared lave been investigated , and my results , although they agree in the main with Bridge 's , differ his in one or two important cases .
A detailed discussion of these cases will appear elsewhere .
The species which come under my own observation are:\mdash ; Carch , Ruppel , .
glaucus , L. , Galeus ccmis , , Risso , vulgaris , M. and H. , M. loevis , Risso , grisens , Gm .
, IIeptanchus cinereus , Gm .
, Scyllium canicula , L. , S. , L. , Pristiurus ostornus , Bonap .
, Cestracion Lacep .
, BoJlap .
, Cuv .
, Centrophorus , Bl .
Schn .
, Rhina squatina , L. , Pristiophorus Lath .
, zysron , Rhinchobatus , Forsk .
, Rhinobnfns } , Cnv .
, narce , Risso , Narcine brasiliensis , Olf .
, , L. , R. , L. , Myliobatis maculata , I all the species for which there are data both stomcs and bdominal pores .
It includes all the species by Semper , Lamna glauca , M. and H. , ftnd .
In these two species the it be expected that they will eventually be found to .
II is nged t the spocies with nephrostomt ) * C. .
" " der Plagiostomen lltd seinc ' .
Zool.-zoot .
Insf .
, burg , ' ) not .
) Phys vol. 14 , 1 Mr. .
J. Bless .
On the Openings in the placed together under , and the species without them together under B. The species under all possess abdominal pores .
Under , on the other hand , there is no such uniformity as regards th6 pores .
We have here a fairly complete series of species ; beginning with forms without abdominal pores like Cestracion , passing to forms like .
stellare , which acquire pores late life and may occasion .
ally fail to do so ; we then come to the nicula group , where pores are found at the stage of sexual maturity , but where they may be acquired still later or sometimes not at all ; and , lastly , there is a fourth group , that of Acanthias vulgaris , where the pores appear at an early age , towards the end of embryonic life , and seem to be invariably present .
These four groups have one character in common : the nephrostomes remain open in the adult .
In this they differ from the species under , which close the nephrostomes early in development , and then , like Group 4 of Series , and likewise at an early age ( Carcharias during foetal , open abdominal pores .
To some of the species in Table I no place in Table II can be assigned until more specimens of different ages have been examined .
It is sufficiently obvious from the lisb of species in Series of Table II that abdominal pores are distributed without reference to oviparity or viviparity .
Table I. Elasmobranchii .
of the ?
of Vertebrates .
Table Mr. E. J. Bless .
On the in the Table A. Elasmobranchs with nephrostomes when adult .
( 1 ) Abdominal pores absent .
Cestraciontidae .
Cestracion philippi , Lacep .
Rhinidae .
Rhina squatina , L. ( 2 ) Abdominal pores absent until full-grown .
( Whether they are then constantly present is uot known .
) Scvlliidae .
Sc.sfellare , L. Pristiurus melanostomus , Bonap .
( 3 ) Abdominal pores appear late ( when sexually mature ) and may be absent .
Scylludae .
Scyllium , L. Spinacidae .
Spinax niger , Bonap .
( 4 ) Abdominal pores appear early and are constantly present .
cidae .
Acanthias vulgaris , Bisso .
Symnus lichia , Cuv .
B. Elasmobranchs without nephrostomes when adult .
Abdominal pores always present .
SELACHOIDEI .
Carchariidae .
reharias glaucus , L. Galeus onap .
, Zygoena malleus , Risso , Illustelus ulgaris , M. and H. , Triacis semifasciata , Girard .
Lanmidae .
Lamna cornubica , Gm .
BATOIDEI .
Rhinobatidae .
Rhinchobatus djeddensis , Forsk .
l ?
hinobatus granulatus , Cuv .
Torpedinidae .
Torpedo narce , , T. tnarmorata , Bisso , subnigrum , Dnm .
, Narcine brasiliensrs , Olf .
, Raja clavata , L. , R. macu Tata , Montag .
, R. blanda , Holt Calderwood , R. punctata , Risso , L. , R. batis , L. , , Lacep .
Trygonidae .
Trygon brucco , Bonap .
T. pastinaca , L. iobatidae .
lobatis maculata , Gray , Myliobatis TltO most obvious of the facts bronght into prominence the ave tables are the following : \mdash ; 1 .
Elasmobranch fishes when adult peritoneal which in every known instance commullicates the terior .
2 .
This tion is established in several ways:\mdash ; Th.hpul'nal\ldquo ; ; ( b ) More directly , ough abdominal pores ; buf ( c ) Both comnlunications may exist to,.ether in the s individual .
3 .
arding f. the monlcnt the eight bpecies which , both sets of openings , remain in which of ) Wall of the Bod ?
f-cavity of Vertebrates .
exists between the renal commurlications on the one band and the abdominal pores on the other .
There are four species with persistent nephrostomes and practically without abdominal pores , and twenty-four species with abdominal pores which lose the nephrostomes very early in develop- meant .
4 .
The Batoidei and the Carchariidae are characterised by the absence in the adult of open nephrostomes and the presence of pores .
In the above statements no account has been taken of the third channel of communication present in all female Elasmobranchs , that practicable through the oviduct after the disappearance of the hymen .
The relations thus brought to light afford a fairly complete account of the distribution of both nephrostomes and abdominal pores amongst aduIt asmobranchs .
The total number of species ( thirtysix ) from which these conclusions have is somewhat small when compared with the number of species on record in this group , , more than 300 .
The families of the group are , however , all represented , with the exception of the Rhinodonbidae , the Pristiophoridae , and the Pristidae , in which nothing is known of the nephrostomes ; but I found abdominal in a species from each of the Selachian and Batoid families of Sawfishes .
It follows then that with the two ecies r to and six additional species from various families Selachians known to possess abdominal pores , *there are forty-four pecies in which the abdominal cavity is known to communicate with the exterior , not one in which this cavity is shut off from such c.ommunication .
So that we may extend the generalisations arrived at from the discussion of the material here brought together to the whole of the Elasmobranchii .
It may hence be concluded that the body cavity of Elasmobranchs is never completely enclosed by the peritoneum ; it always communicates with the extel'ior , the comnication }eing effected in various ways , as shown above .
The distribution of species with nephrostomes and of species withont henl the Elasmobranchii is clearly shown in Table I. The heme of classification adopted is from Dr. Gunther 's 'Catalogue in the British Museum ' ( published in 1870 ) .
A glance at Table I shows that the riidae c close the me tubes , th ] species of Scyliidae retain them , tive , species of Spinacidae do the same ; also two species of ight species are : sron , Blkr .
, Prist,.ophorus cirratus , Lath .
, spinosus , Gm .
, Laemargus borealis , doselachus -uineus , Galm .
, tudes , Cuv .
, melanopterus , Q. and G. , and Carcharias acutus , Riippel .
238 Mr. E. J. Bless .
On the Openings in the Notidanidae do so ; while all the Batoidei lose the peritoneal nephri .
dial openlngs .
Thus the classification here employed is in hal'mony with the ibution of ostomes in adult anchs .
Table III.\mdash ; In table I have placed , side by side , the data the distribution of nephrostomes and of abdominal pores in all the Vertebrates not yet dealt with , excluding the Cyclostomes , The latter mltted on account of the ability that the so-called abdomilIal pores of ostomes a genital ducts , morpho .
logically as well as nctionally , and quite distinct from true abdominal pores , which never used as genital ducts .
The fishes in which the ova when mature fall into the general body cavity usually have abdominal pores ; this applies to certain Elasmobranchs , the Holocephala , most Ganoids , some Dipnoi , and to soms idae .
But are exceptions , as ws have seen , the Elasmobranchs ; some Salmonidae have no pores , and other TeleosteallS with the primitive form of ovary have none , e.g. , Muraenidae , GaIaxidae , \amp ; c. Then , on the otlJer hand , there are fishes with tubular closed ovaries forming a continuous tube with the and with a lumell quite distinct the body-cavity , as it is in ffi maiority of Teleosteans , yet the body-cavity is , nevertheless , open to the exterior abdominal .
Lepidosteus osseus is in this colldition , and , amongst Teleostealls , the Mormyridae .
It follows that there is correlation between the condition of the and the occtlrrence of abdominal pores .
It is noteworthy that in the Amphibia alone , amongst the Vertebrates ranking higher than Elasmobranchs , do the nephrostomes persist in the adult , and that the abdominal pores are entirely absent .
This is the more striking , since the abdominal pores eappear in Reptiles , in the absence of nephrostomes .
Equally imporballt , from he present point of view , is the change of of the ostomes within the group Amphibia .
the and Urodela original excretory function is se ] ; but in Anura , where the lymphatic system is more highly developed , body-cavity has become a lymph space , and the nephrostomes lead from it directly into the renal veins , not into the kidney ( Nussbaum ) .
The abdominal cavity of Anura is also , the stomata , in close nication with the lymphatic system , and so , the ] -hearts , with the veins .
Hence the body-cavity of the er Amphibia may be compared , as egards its relabions bhe kidneys , with the body-cavity of certain Elasmobranchs ( Cestracion ) , the relations of body-cavity and vascular system in the are parallel to those obtaining in the her Reptilia and Wall of the Body-cavity of ) Wall of the Body-javity of ertebrates .
Mr. E. J. Bless .
On the the V , Conc The first inference to be drawn from the facts as here presented is one bearing on the function of the abdominal pores .
When some conclusion has been reached as to whether the pores are mere vestigial rudiments of no physiological value , or whether they are of real functional value to those in which they occur , then an attempt may be macle to assign to them their morphcogical The opinion held by Bridge as the resuIt of his investigations on abdominal pores was , that , in those cases where products passed out through them , tlIey had no definite function .
It is now known that true abdominal porcs do not serve as genital ducts ; the so-called abdominal pores of Cyclostomes , Muraeuidae , \amp ; c. , are really genital ducts , and their homologies do not point to the abdominal pores of the Elasmobranchs , \amp ; c. The pores would , accordingly , be left without any particular function .
This conclusion is , I believe , contradicted by the facts connected with the relative distribution of nephrostomes on the one hand and abdominal pores on the other .
In the Elasmobranchs three larger groups may be recognised .
In one nephrostomes only occur , in nother abdominal pores only , in the third are always present , while abdominal pores may or may not be added .
Amongsb bhe Holocephala abdominal pores alone exist in the adult Chirnoera strosc The Ganoids lose their nephrostomes , but all have abdominal pores .
All that is ] about the Dipnoi to the presence of pores in Ceratodus and ' nnectens , nephrostomes } ) absent .
The Teleostei with pores have no nephrostomes .
The phibitt Caecilia and the Amphibia Urodela both have nephrostomes ening a passage body-cavity to the exterior .
In certain Chelonia and which close their nephrostom embryonic life , abdominal pores present .
All the groups just mcntioned ] either rostomes or abdominal , or in some case both together .
In none are openiogs absent , and it appenrs to be necessary for some ) to be open between body-cavity and the exterior .
This onsidel'ation gives , I believe , a to function of the } pores .
As they alternnte on the whole their tribution with the )}ll'ostomes , they in all probability the duties of the absent uephrostomes , or when both are presel ) togethel they act in support of each other .
what the ction o chiefly consists is denIonstrated by a very expel.iment reccntly performed ) Guido He jected f ( livided Indian ink * ' Anat .
vol. 13 , No. 15 , p. 393 .
of ' the of with a little cal.mine into the vity of specinlens of angelus ( Rhina squatina , L Two } latel the animals ere killed .
gocytes laden with the colouring matter were { ound in the nephrostomial funnels and in spaces in the into hich these funnels led .
Whether these spaces were continuous with the lumell of the enal tubules could not be determined .
But in addition to means of clealing the eign matter away the cavity , anothel metbod , as I take it , appeal'S to have ) eell r have tisfied myself that the nol.mal R. abdominal , but cloacnl pits hill walls towal.ds the body-cavity .
From tion , I conclude that these walis were ough i more or Icss pathological specimens , ) on of the cloacal slit .
They appeared as black pits pigmented ith leucocytes , , as he ) , into the tissue the lcucocytes were only in tbebe the had , no , 1 consider , in equence in , the spnccs iu the kidne cribed as choked vitb phagocybes .
to is , ostomes h stopped } ) of , the pores ) opell , ]elllllling ytes vere t expelled , some of them , } ) Obed connective tissue : edge of ) ious experiment idcnco u the He mad a copious injection of uded in salt solution into the body-CRl.ity of specimens have ) eell immature ; any cabc , of tLey had no pores .
But , I { to hjnk , thoy } , as the cytes jected p collected at the wall 011 thin .
Sonle of the ocytes w into thin lltd in ollO c ) passed ough it formed a is ives , it , old h if the abdomiDnl pore been ) herc would been no the cavity of the foreign tter ( } p1 iOll .
etory ducts , and ( should occaested .
aid an I the tie as a of meallb as the }holc of .
And if this is , the ity of } and of the lowel } ) hibia is to a an excletol.y : of ' .
Imp .
Sci St. , 1895 , 101 . .
E. J. Bless .
On the Openings in the development of almost all Vertebrates .
This is in reement with the resuIt arrived at by van Wijhe in a totally different way , which states tlIat the abdominal pores were excretory ducts and the body .
cavity the most primitive excretory organ , functioning as such before the arose .
* It would follow that the abdominal pore is phylogenetically older than and mesonephric seg .
mental tubes and , and ] 's homology of the abdominal pores with a posterior pair of segmental tubes would fall to the ground .
Without committing myself to van Wijhe 's way of regard .
ing the abdominal poles and pronephros , I must say that there is little to be alleged in favour of Balfour 's homology .
The arguments with which Balfour supports his view are rather scanty , amounting to the statement that the porss , for reasons given , are not Mullerian ducts , and that the blind pockets ( cloacal pouches ) of Selachians are very like involutions from the exterior to form the external openings of a pair of segmental organs .
It is now known that the peritoneal end of segmental tubules is formed , especially in Selachians , in a perfectly definite manner from a definite part of the myotome , the dorsal portion of that part which does not the myomel.e or muscle segment .
Until it is shown that the abdominal pores arise from a corresponding portion of a myotome they cannot be homologised with segmental .
Their late appearance in many cases , their ventral position , the fact that they are formed ( in Scyllium for instance ) at the extreme tip of the peritoneal cavity as a prolongation of that cavity ventrally into the cloacal ] , that they open at or near the tip of the papilla and not .to the bottom of the cloacal pouch , all these facts make it seem unlikely that Balfour 's suggested homology will eventually be proved .
The problem naturally arises , which is the primiti ve condition in Elasmobranchs , that where llephrostomes alone are present , or that where abdominal pores alone are present in the adult This point cannot , I think , be decided without more evidence .
At first sight it might seem that the persistence of nephrostomial tubes in the Selachian was primitive , as these organs are formed at an early stage , in a primitivs manner , and are hence phylogenetically ancient structures .
CestracioI ] , moreover , which has this feature , is one of the most primitive of living Selachians .
But against all this it may be urged that jusb as the nephrostomes in adult Amphibia are in all probability a neotenic character , in a group which shows so strong a proclivity to neotenia , so may the etention of open nephrostomes in adult of the present day be a neotenic phenomenon .
This is the more probable , since the neplJrostomes in animals which lose them generally disappear at a * Arch. .
Mikr .
Anat vol. 33 , .
507 .
Memorial Edition , vol. 1 , p. 153 .
Wall of the Body-cavity of Vertel ) very early age and they are so lost in the Cyclostomata .
It therefore , not clear whether that intermediate group of Selachians which bas both nephrostomes and abdominal pores is on the wa to lose the former and depend on the latter or vice With regard to the homology of the porss in the grotlps of fishes and reptiles , the answer will depend on the proof or proof of Balfour 's homology .
If the pores are Ijot segmental tubeb , they al.esiluply perforations of the wall in consequen of ning down in the cloacal region .
Should this be so , it is evident this process may have takell place independently many times over in the phylogeny of the different groups , and there would be difficulty in establishing the homoIogy between ally two groups of tebrates i respect to the pores .
Lct us glance for a moment at the played by the body-cavity in the of changes from its ol'iginal condition ( i ) as a part of the system , ( ii ) as a part of the reproductive system receiving the genital products as they nre set free , and ( iii ) as a of the lymphatic system , receiving the transudations of the viscel.al and abdominnl walls .
From this condition it has been specialised , losin the of its duties , when the ovalies and testes became .
less continuous with heir ducts .
It wo xrdaftel.in the ) ecome less an excretory and more a , and imil a in higher reptiles and it ore part of the system of lymI my atitudc to Boulengel .
for facilities gl.anted in nens uudel ' his charge at the British Museum , to Mr. \ldquo ; Superintendent of the Museum of the use of nens in the collection , and Iastly , I owe much itude to .
Hans Gadow , for the meant always been ready to give me .
1 .
is a and compensating tion in adulf nchi i , Ganoidci , Dipnoi , some Teleostei , Amphibia , Crocodilia in the distribution of nephrostomes and 0 porcs .
In bome Sclachiaus only are both ot tho chii , and in all the other .
set of excludes the presence of the othel .
In Telcostei , in Httteritt , some ocodiles and becll lost .
an intermediate position in so osfon ) .
but no connecod the vity c ( 1 ) the ) ] rostonlt 246 Openings in the Wall of the of Vertebrates .
and ( 2 ) ough stomata .
The latter alone form a communication between the body-cavity and the lymphatic system in the Saurii , and Mammalia which have neither abdominal pores nor nephrostomes .
2 .
If stomata should not be presenb in the Teleostei and certain Reptilia mentioned above , they would the only exception to the generalisation that the body-cavity of Vertebrates is never completely closed .
.3 .
The function of the abdominal pores is the same as that of the nephrostomes , , the voiding of waste products from the bodycavity .
4 .
body-cavity in Pisce .
the Amphibia is to a reat extent an excretory 5 .
The bulk of the evidence does not favour the view the abdominal pores l.epresent a pair of segmenval tubules .
6 .
They seem be simple perforations of the abdominal walI , and in this case would not necessarily be homolo , ous in the various groups of Vertebrates .
List of the principal Books and Papers referl.ed to above .
* T. Anderson , " " On the Cloacal Bladders and on the Peritoneal Canals in Chelonia ' Linn. Soc. Journ vol. 12 , 1876 , p. 434 .
H. Gadow , " " Remarks on the Cloaca and on the Copulatory Organs of the Amniota ' Phil. Irans .
, , vol. 178 ( 1887 ) , pp. A. Gunther , " " Description of Ceratodus 'Phil .
Trans vol. , p. 549 ; ' ' An Introduction to the Study of Fishes 1880 , p. 123 .
J. Hyrtl , " " Beitrage sir Morphologie der Urogenital-Organe de ) .
Fiscbe ' Denkschr . .
Akad .
Wiss .
Wien , ' vol. 1 , 1860 , p. 391 ; Ueber den Zusammen .
hallg der GeschlecLts-und kzeuge bei den Ganoiden ' Denkschr .
Akad .
Wiss .
Wien vol. 8 , 1854 , p. 60- ; " " Anatomische Mittheilungen ueber Mormyrus und Gymnarchus ' Denkschr . .
Akad .
Wiss .
Wien , ' vol. 12 , 1856 , p. 1 .
H. F. E. gersen , " " Die mbryonalniere des Stors ( Acipenser sturio ' Zool. Anz , p. 464 ; " " Die Embryonalniere von Amia calva ' Zool. Anz Jhg .
17 , 1894 , p. 246 .
.Toh .
Muller , " " Ueber den Bau und die enzen der Ganoiden 1846 ; " " Fernere Bemerkungen uber den Bau der Ganoiden Sit Ber .
Akad .
Wiss .
Berlin , ' 1846 , p. 74 .
M. Nussbaum , " " Sir der Nierellor ' Arch. .
Mikr .
Anat vol. 27 , p. 466 , 1886 .
R. Owen , " " Description of dosiren annectens ' Linn. Soc. Trans vol. 18 , 1841 , p. 843 .
W. N. Parker , ' On the Anatomy and Physiology of nnecte ) \ldquo ; ' Roy .
Irish Acad. Trans vol. 30 , 1892 , p. 109 .
F. SchweiggerSeidel and J. Dogiel , " " Ueber die Peritonealhohle bei Fl.oschen und Zusammenhang clem teJlle.\ldquo ; ] .
Leipzig , ' vol. 18 , 1 ) .
lS66 .
* Relerences in text not nted here .
, of a Circle , J. , ' Das ' Amphibien ' Arb . .
Inst. ' vol. 3 , pp. 1\mdash ; 114 , 1876 .
' der Anatomy iere '( Autlage ) , I. Buch .
Die WTul.nel .
, : ' On the Pori Abdominales of some Shalks , \ldquo ; ' Journ. Anat .
Phys vol. 14 , p. 101 , 1879 .
, : : der Salmoniden , nebst Bemel'kungen uber die gane d ' Fische ' vol. 12 , pp. 366\mdash ; 406 , 1886 .
tion of the Coefficient of lIutual Induction of 11 Coaxial Helix , and of the Electromagnetic between a Helical Current a Uniform Coaxial nlar Cylindrical Current Sheet By J. JONES : .
Received November 12 , \mdash ; Bead December 9 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) S 1 .
Lot be the coefficient of mutual induchon of a circle and a a ial helix , beginning in the plane of the circle and of helical nngle .
Then if is the coefficient of mutual induction of the circlc , any portion of the helix for which the extreme oint d by lllelical nglcs , we have It ) } ill ) be sufficieIlt to show to calculate for all values of Let tl tions to the and coaxial helix be it 1 been shown by the that may be expressed the ] .
series which is convergent if ' * ' Phil. Mag January , 1889 .

