504 Mr. A. V. Harcourt .
O Limitation and [ June 17 , We find that the epochs of maximum prominence disturbance in the higher latitudes are widely different from those near the Equator .
The latter are closely associated with the epochs of maximum spotted area ; the former occur both N. and S. at intervening times .
We have then two sets of strongly marked prominence outbursts occurring at intervals of between 3 and 4 years .
Both sets are represented closely in the Indian pressure curves .
" On Two Methods for the Limitation and Regulation of Chloroform when administered as an Anaesthetic .
" By A. Vernon Haroourt , E.R.S. , Reader in Chemistry at Christ Church , Oxford .
Received June 17 , \#151 ; Read June 19 , 1902 .
In the 'Transactions of the Chemical Society'for 1899 an apparatus is described for providing a current of air mixed in any desired proportion with chloroform vapour .
This apparatus served its purpose in experiments on small animals , but was on too small a scale , and offered too much resistance , to provide the free supply of air at a rate of 4 or 5 litres a minute which human respiration requires .
A gas passing close over the surface of a liquid for a sufficient distance yields to the liquid any part of the gas which is soluble , and takes up from the liquid any part of the liquid which is volatile , as completely as when the gas bubbles through the liquid , while suffering much less resistance to its passage .
OUTLET BOXES IN TANK .
Fra .
2 The apparatus shown here ( figs. 1 and 2 ) consists of two closed boxes made of galvanised iron , a square foot in area and 2 inches in height , with transverse partitions soldered to the top and reaching nearly to the bottom .
The partitions are f-inch apart , and extend from one side to within an inch of the opposite side each way alternately .
Large stopcocks at the two ends of one of these sides provide inlet and outlet .
By this arrangement the gas travels in each box a distance of about 15 feet over the surface of the liquid .
1902 .
] Regulation of the Administration of Chloroform .
505 The outlet of box I is connected , by an arched tube joining the stopcocks , with the inlet of box II .
Air is drawn in at the inlet of box I , and air and chloroform are drawn out from the outlet of box II .
The first box is charged about half-full with a mixture of chloroform and alcohol , the second with water , about 2^ litres in each .
The two boxes stand in a shallow tank , and are immersed in water of which the temperature can easily be kept constant .
The second box , with its charge of water , is for the purpose of absorbing alcohol vapour .
^ When the mixture of air with the vapours of chloroform and alcohol has passed slowly for several hours , the water takes up no more chloroform ; but the absorption of alcohol vapour continues almost indefinitely .
By varying the proportion of chloroform to alcohol and the temperature of the mixture , the proportion of chloroform to air in the gas drawn through may be varied from a large percentage to a small fraction per cent. If the apparatus is on a sufficient scale relatively to the maximum volume of gas drawn through in unit time , the rate of passage of the gas will not affect the composition of the mixture , saturation under the actual conditions having been attained .
The following experiments were made to test the fulfilment of the last-named condition of constancy:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Air was drawn from the boxes through a flask for a quarter of an hour at the rate of 400 c.c. per minute .
The contents of the flask were then analysed ; percentage of chloroform , 1*45 .
( 2 .
) Air drawn through for 8 minutes at the rate of 4000 c.c. per minute ; percentage of chloroform , 1'42 .
( 3 .
) Repetition of ( 1 ) .
Passage of air and chloroform at 400 c.c. per minute , continued for half an hour .
Percentage of chloroform 1-47 .
The temperature of the water in the tank was throughout 9 ' C. The difference in the proportion of chloroform when air is passed through at 400 and at 4000 c.c. per minute is too small to be material .
Hence , in the apparatus employed , the length of travel of the air over the surface of the liquid is sufficient for the vapour of chloroform to have attained at the greatest rate of passage , being that of ordinary respiration , its maximum tension at the actual temperature and partial pressure upon the surface of the liquid .
_ The method used for estimating chloroform is that in which a flask having a capacity of 800 or 900 c.c. , of which the interior has been wetted with a few c.c. of water , is charged with the mixture of air and chloroform ( fig. 3 ) .
There is then brought into it a spiral of fine plati num wire , through which an electric current can be passed .
The water at the bottom of the flask is heated to between 50 ' and 60 , and the wire is rendered incandescent .
A cloud of hydrochloric acid appears , which - dissolves in the water .
In 20 minutes the change is complete .
The 506 Mr. A. V. Harcourt .
On Limitation and [ June 17 , flask is cooled , the cork withdrawn , and more water poured in .
Finally , the acid liquid is neutralised with a standard solution of ammonia .
The capacity of the flask being known , and the temperature and atmospheric pressure when it was filled having been noted , the percentage of chloroform in the mixture of chloroform vapour and air is readily calculated .
Many such analyses have been made in the course of this inquiry , the flask being charged by taking the inspirations of ordinary breathing through it for a couple of minutes .
To save the operator from being chloroformed , a flask of 25 litres capacity was interposed between the smaller flask and the mouth ( fig. 4 ) .
For the analysis of smaller quantities of air and chloroform than will suffice for filling a flask by displacement of air , and for determining the total amount of chloroform dissolved by a liquid , such as water or blood , another apparatus has been devised , the chemical reaction being the same .
It consists of a tube about 20 cm .
in length , and from 2 to 2*3 cm .
in diameter , near the axis of which are two fine platinum wires attached at one end to a stouter wire passing through the glass , and*at the other to the shorter arm of a lever turning upon another wire at right angles to it which passes in through the side of the glass tube ; the longer arm is weighted so as to fall when the wire is elongated by heat and keep it stretched ( figs. 5 and 6 ) .
When the electric current , from wires attached to the platinum terminals outside the tube , is turned off , the lever moves in the opposite direction .
The tube is set slightly aslope ; from its lower end a tube descends into a flask , in which the hydrogen chloride formed is collected ; at the upper ' 1902 .
] Regulation of the Administration of Chloroform .
end enter the mixture of chloroform and air , and also water falling into a lateral tube at the rate of about one drop a second .
The slow trickle of water along the bottom of the tube is heated by the wire above it , and thus furnishes the necessary supply of steam , while serving also to dissolve the hydrogen chloride , and carry it into the flask beneath .
TO ASPIRATOR PLAN OT HEATEO PLATINUM WIRES .
A- PIVOTED LEVER .
Fig. 5 .
ENLARGED DIAGRAM OF WIRE-TIGHTENING ARRANGEMENT .
TIC DOTTED LINES SHOW THE POSITION WHEN THE WIRES ARE HOT .
Fig. 6 .
A full account of these methods of testing with the record of the experiments by which their trustworthiness has been established , will probably appear in the ' Journal of the British Medical Association , for a Committee of which body the second method has been planned and used .
, By the first method it has been found that to obtain a mixture ot 98 per cent , air and 2 per cent , chloroform , which suffices to produce full anaesthesia , the box should be charged with a mixture of 80 per cent , alcohol and 20 per cent , chloroform and kept at a temperature of 15 ' .
With this mixture , and at this temperature , however slow an inspiration may be , the proportion of chloroform to air cannot rise above the comparatively safe limit of 2 per cent. To reduce the dose of chloroform below 2 per cent , a three-way stopcock has been made giving always free passage to air , but admitting at one end of its range air with the full charge of 2 per cent , of chloroform , at the other end air only .
Between the two is a graduated arc over which a pointer moves , the divisions on which give approximately the percentage of chloroform in the air which is being inhaled .
The long handle of the stopcock which forms the pointer is easily moved by the pressure of the finger . .
At the outlet of the stopcock are two valves , opening and closing with each inspiration and expiration respectively .
Between the two valves is a short tube connected by a piece of flexible tubing with a face-piece of the usual type ( fig. 7 ) .
508 Mr. A. V. Harcourt .
O the Limitation and [ June 17 , In this country , though not in Scotland , chloroform has been largely superseded by ether and nitrous oxide .
But the author hopes the apparatus he has described may be of use in hospitals in which chloroform is used , and may perhaps help towards restoring confidence in chloroform as a safe anaesthetic .
Except for hospital use , a more portable apparatus seemed desirable , and the author was also urged by a surgeon of experience to connect the stopcock and valves with the face-piece , so that they and the face 1902 .
] Regulation of the Administration of Chloroform .
509 of the patient might be observed together .
The second apparatus is the result of an attempt to accomplish these objects ( fig. 8 ) .
The limitation of the maximum amount of chloroform is effected by restricting the area from which evaporation takes place , all the air required for respiration being drawn through a small two-necked bottle half-filled with chloroform .
It might be thought that in this case the percentage of chloroform mixing with the air would vary greatly with the rate of passage of the air .
But this is not so .
When air enters rather slowly it passes down one neck and across to the other over the surface of the more saturated air with only partial admixture .
When air is drawn through in larger volume it blows down through the neck and stirs up and mixes with the vapour beneath , promoting evaporation , and by this means compensating for the greater dilution .
Thus with this apparatus also , using a bottle about 3 cm .
in diameter , and maintaining a temperature of 16'__18 ' , the maximum amount of* chloroform is about 2 per cent. Further dilution with air to reduce this percentage is obtained by the use of a stopcock similar to that already described .
The temperature of the chloroform is observed by means of two specific-gravity bulbs , which are in neutral equilibrium in chloroform at 16 ' and 18 ' respectively .
When one of these bulbs has sunk , and the other is floating , the temperature of the chloroform is between 16 ' and 18 ' , a variation of temperature which , it is thought , will not make a material difference .
By evaporation the temperature falls , and it can be restored by dipping the bottle for a few moments in warm water .
In this case also the readings of divisions on the arc represent approximately the percentage of chloroform which is being administered at any moment .
The apparatus is provided with three valves , the movement of which supplies information as trustworthy as readings of the stopcock .
The upper valve gives passage to all expired air , and from its movement are seen the fulness and frequency of respiration .
The height to which the valve connected with the bottle of chloroform rises shows how much air with 2 per cent , of .chloroform is being inhaled ; the height to which the valve admitting pure air rises shows to what extent the mixture of air and chloroform is being diluted with pure air .
For example , when the pointer is in the middle of the arc the two valves rise equally , showing that the original dose is being diluted with an equal volume of air , or that there is being administered air containing 1 per cent , of chloroform .
Fio .
8 .
510 On the Regulation of the Administration of Chloroform .
Instead of attaching the face-piece to the stem of the apparatus , a piece of flexible tubing may be interposed , the apparatus being supported on a stand .
For the illustrations of apparatus and help in the work the author is much indebted to Mr. A. Angel , B. A. , 'Christ Church .

