1876 .
] Movement of the Glass Case of a Radiometer , [ II .
" On the Placentation of the Lemurs .
" By Wm. Turner , M.B. ( Lond. ) , Professor of Anatomy , University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by Prof. Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received February 21 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) In the Introduction to this Memoir a description was given of the observations made by M. Alphonse Milne-Edwards on the gravid uteri of several genera of Lemurs .
The author then proceeded to describe the gravid uteri of six Lemurs which he had received from Dr. Andrew Davidson , of Antananarivo , Madagascar , viz. Lemur i* ufipes , and Indris brevicaudatus .
He then summarized the conclusions he had arrived at in the course of his dissections , and showed that the placenta in these animals was diffused and presumably therefore non-leciduate .
The paper concluded with a discussion of the bearing of ihese observations on the classification of the Lemurs , and on the theory propounded by Haeckel of the descent of the deciduate mammals from i primaeval root-form of Prosimiae .
IV .
" On the Movement of the Glass Case of a Radiometer .
" By William Crookes , E.R.S. \amp ; c. Received March 30 , 1876 .
During the discussion which followed the reading of Prof. Reynolds 's and Dr. Schuster 's papers at the last meeting of the Royal Society I mentioned an experiment bearing on the observations of Dr. Schuster .
I have isince tried this in a modified form ; and as the results are very decided and appear calculated to throw light on many disputed points in the theory of these obscure actions , I venture to bring a description of the experiment , and to show the apparatus at work , before the Society .
I made use of a radiometer described in a paper communicated to the Society in January last .
I quote the description from paragraph 184 .
" A large radiometer in a 4-inch bulb was made with ten arms , eight of them being of brass and the other two being a long watch-spring magnet .
The disks were of pith , blackened on one side .
The power of the earth on the magnet is too great to allow the arms to be set in rotation unless a candle is brought near ; but once started it will continue to revolve with the light some distance off .
" This radiometer was floated in a vessel of water ; and four candles were placed round it so as to set the arms in rotation .
A mark was put on the glass envelope so as to enable a slight movement of rotation to be seen .
The envelope turned very slowly a few degrees in one direction , then stopped and turned a few degrees the opposite way ; [ finally it took up a uniform but excessively slow movement in the direction of the arms , but so slow that more than an hour would be occupied in one revolution .
b VOL. XXIV .
* 2 II Presents .
[ Mar. 2 , A powerful magnet was now brought near the moving arms .
They immediately stopped , and at the same time the glass envelope commenced to revolve in the opposite direction to that in which the arms had been revolving .
The movement kept up as long as the candles were burning , and the speed was one revolution in two minutes .
The magnet was removed , the arms obeyed the force of radiation from the candles and revolved rapidly , whilst the glass envelope quickly came to rest and then rotated very slowly the same way as the arms went .
The candles were blown out ; and as soon as the whole instrument had come to rest a bar-magnet was moved alternately from one side to the other of the radiometer , so as to cause the vanes to rotate as if they had been under the influence of a candle .
The glass envelope moved with some rapidity ( about one revolution in three minutes ) in the direction the arms were moving .
On reversing the direction of movement of the arms the glass envelope changed direction also .
These experiments show that the internal friction , either of the steel point on the glass socket , of the vanes against the residual air , or of both these causes combined , is considerable .
Moving the vanes round by the exterior magnet carries the whole envelope round in opposition to the friction of the water against the glass .
As there is much discussion at present respecting the cause of these movements , and as some misunderstanding seems to prevail as to my own views on the theory of the repulsion resulting from radiation , I wish to take this opportunity of removing the impression that I hold opinions which are in antagonism to some strongly urged explanations of these actions .
I have on five or six occasions specially stated that I wish to keep free from theories .
During my four years ' work on this subject I have accumulated a large fund of experimental observations , and these often enable me to see difficulties which could not be expected to occur to an investigator who has had but a limited experience with the working of one or two instruments .
Presents received , March 2 , 1876 .
Transactions .
Birmingham :\#151 ; Institution of Mechanical Engineers .
Proceedings , 1875 .
No. 2 ( April ) .
8vo .
The Institution .
Edinburgh :\#151 ; Royal Scottish Society of Arts .
Transactions .
Vol. VIII .
Part 5 ; Vol. IX .
Part 1 , 2 .
8vo .
1873-74 .
The Society .
London :\#151 ; East-India Association .
Journal .
Vol. IX .
No. 1-3 .
8vo .
1875-76 .
The Association .
Linnean Society .
Journal .
Zoology .
Vol. XII .
No. 60-62 .
8vo .
1876 .
' The Society .

