IX .
An Account of a Book entitled , Dominict Bottoni , de immani Trinacriae Terrae Motu Idea Historico-Physica , in qua non solum Telluris concussiones transactae recensentur , sed novissimae Anni 1717 .
Messanae 1718 80 .
By J. G. Scheuchzer , M. D. R. S. S. Coll. M. L. Lic .
THIS Treatise contains an accurate historical Account of the several violent Earth-quakes , which happened in the Kingdom of Sicily , in the Years 1693 , 1694 , and 1717 .
interspersed with some philosophical Digressions concerning the Causes and Effects of Earthquakes in general .
I shall something enlarge upon the former , as being the more material , as well as the more curious Part of the Book ; avoiding , however , with all possible Care , a tedious and unnecessary Repetition of what hath been already mentioned in another Account of those two dreadful Succussions , which happened the 9th and 10th of January , 1693 .
written by Vincentius Bonajutus , a Sicilian Nobleman .
This Account was communicated to the Royal Society by the late learned Marcellus Malpighius , and is inserted in the Philos. Transact. No 207 .
p. 2 .
The Summer Season , in 1692 .
was exceedingly hot and tempestuous , with frequent Thunders , Lightnings and Rains .
About the middle of September fell such profuse Showers , that all the Rivers and Torrents increased to such a Degree , as to overflow their Banks in several Places , and cover large Pieces of Ground with Water .
This , joined to the continual blowing of SouthV O L. XXXIII .
Z early early Winds , during the Autumn , put the Inhabitants under great Apprehension of future Mischiefs .
And indeed , the disastrous Fate , which befel Sicily about the Beginning of 1693 , too manifestly proved , that this ominous Fear was no way groundless .
For on Friday the 9th of January , about the 5th Hour ( according to the Italian Way of counting ) after a warm , serene and calm Day , the Earth began trembling all of a sudden , chiefly about Catania , and in some neighbouring Places , for the Time required to say the Lord 's Prayer .
This first Shake was accompanied , as generally happens in Earthquakes , by a hollow , thundering Noise , and and succeeded by another small Trembling , observed only by some few People on Saturday , early in the Morning .
These two Succussions , though violent enough , were but a Prelude of the third , which happened the 11th of the same Month , by 4 of the Clock in the Afternoon , of which the Apprehension was so much the greater , because all the 10th and 11th , between the first and third Shake , the Air was more than usual dark and cloudy .
This last was stupendous beyond human Imagination , and it would be a Task too difficult for even the ablest Pen , to describe all its dreadful Effects ; the violent tossing and dancing of the Earth ; the hollow , thundering Noise threatening the whole Island with its entire Dissolution ; the fiery Eruption of the burning AEtna throwing out a prodigious Quantity of Flames , Stones and Ashes ; the Terror and Confusion of the distracted Inhabitants running up and down the Streets , uncertain where to provide for their Safety , or how to escape the Fury of all the raging Elements , which seemed to have conspired their Ruin .
There was scarce one Place all over the Kingdom left without some particular Misfortune , Catania Syracusa , Agosta , Messina , Noto , Ragusa , Leontini , Ibla Chiarumonte , Carleontino , Caltagirone , Soctino , Francofonte , Bontello , Militello , Occhiali , Aydono , Motica Mascali , were all , if not entirely destroyed , at least miserably shattered , many Churches and stately Buildings , up and down the Country , violently thrown down , and above 60000 Inhabitants buried under the Ruins , of which about 16000 perished only at Catania .
In many Places the Earth gaped prodigiously .
Such an Opening was observed near Messina , in the very Bottom of the Sea ; another near a Village called Botto d ' Aceto , 250 Paces long , and near 8 Palms broad ; another at Caltaniseta , near the Jesuits-College , 2000 Paces long and 2 Palms broad ; another , at the Top of a Hill near Leontini , full wide enough to hold a Man ; another upon the Road between Catania and Leontini , which swallowed up some Mule-keepers , then , to their great Misfortune , happening to travel that way , along with their Mules and whole Baggage , that not the least Foot-step of them remained .
Silently to pass over a great many more , but of less Consideration .
Out of all these Openings sprung forth a great Quantity of Water , which drowned the neighbouring Places .
This Water was in some Places hot , with a strong sulphureous Smell , which lasted , even after the Earthquakes were over , and induced some of the Inhabitants , not without Success , to make use of it in curing of Ulcers , and other cutaneous Diseases , for which chiefly a hot Well near Lazaretto became very famous .
Out of some of these Gapings of the Earth issued a thick Stench and Smoke , very troublesome to all the Neighbourhood .
This happened , amongst other Places , upon a Mountain called S.Theodor , as also near Mena .
Near Agosta it was preceded by a sulphureous red Flame .
Just at the Time of the second Shock , the Sea retired from the Land all along the Coasts , leaving its Bottom dried up for a considerable Distance , and within few Minutes returned again with great Fury , and overflowed the Shores .
By this Accident the Maltese Gallies , lying at Anchor in the Harbour of Agosta , were in danger of being lost ; for the Sea sunk down all of a sudden , so that they came to sit almost upon the Ground , and immediately after bubbled and swelled up again with so great an Emotion , that they run the Hazard of having their Cables broke , and being driven away .
And it seemed that the Earth itself was in some Places considerably lowered , and the Tops of the Mountains depressed .
Of this they had a remarkable Instance at Paternione .
The Hills , between this City and the Shore , hindered it from having any View of the Sea , which since the Earthquake discovers itself towards the East very plainly .
In other Places the Earth actually sunk down , and instead of it appeared great Lakes , some of which were large enough to become navigable .
By the breaking forth of such a Lake between Noto and Syracusa , a large Piece of Ground was transported for about 50 Paces , where it now stands as firm , as if it had always stood there .
The Loosening and Fall of two great Rocks between Terula and Cassero is already sufficiently described in the abovementioned Account of Signor Bonajuti : Such Loosenings and throwing down of great Rocks happened every where up and down in the Country , to the great Terror of the neighbouring People .
The same was also observed , according to Kircher , and several other Authors , in some Earthquakes in the Kingdom of Naples .
Two very high Rocks near Ibla , with all the Trees growing thereon , were by the Violence of the Fall , quite inverted , that the Top came to stand upon the Ground .
About two Miles off from the City of Mena , lies a Lake full of a bituminous , sulphureous and combustible Matter , formerly famous under the Title of Lacus Palicorum .
Upon this Lake there was observed , the very Day of the Earthquake , about a Quarter of an Hour before the second Shock , a great red Flame , like a fiery Column of above three Yards perpendicular Height , which , during the Earthquake itself , on a sudden disappeared .
At Agosta , the Misfortune was so much the greater , because , besides all the dreadful Effects of theEarthquake itself , the Powder-Magazine , in the Castle , by some ill Accident , and perhaps by the violent Fall over one another of the Stones of some ruined Buildings ( or by the breaking out ofsome subterraneous Flame ) unluckily took Fire , by which the whole Castle was blown up with such a Fury , that some of the Stones were carried as far as the Island Thapsus , which is near 8 Italian Miles distant from Agosta .
By this Accident perished 1840 Inhabitants .
There remains still one thing worth observing , and that is the very Rise and Progress of this terrible Succussion .
It arose in the South , and proceeded from thence towards the North .
For it was first observed in the Island of Malta ; then in the Southern Parts of Sicily ; and last , always with some Difference as to the Time , in the Northern Parts of the same Kingdom .
But the Shakes were less violent , the more it approached to the North .
For the rest , it extended itself so far , that not only the Island of Malta , but also Calabria , and some Parts in the Kingdom of Naples , participated of its Fury .
Nor was this the End of all the Miseries which befel this noble Kingdom : for the Earth continued trembling for several Months after , during the whole Year of 1693 .
In the remaining Part of January , and from that Time to the Beginning of the Summer , the Shakes came strong and thick , with hollow terrible Noises , and frequent Eruptions of AEtna .
The most considerable were observed February the 15th in the Morning ; March the 1st ; March the 18th , by one of the Clock ; May the 10th ; May the 26th in the Morning .
Towards the End of the Summer , the Shakes were observed to lose a great deal of their Force , and AEtna to throw out Flames and Ashes in less Quantity , when on the 4th of September , this ignivomous Mountain , having been some Days before very quiet , trembled and cracked all of a sudden , with so loud and thundering a Noise , as if some Thousands of Guns were fired all at once .
This was succeeded by a new Opening , about 1000 Paces distant from the old Mouth , out of which immediately issued a thick Stench and Smoke , follow 'd by a great Flame .
The same Mountain opened itself in two other Places , with the like Noise , and Eruption of Smoke and Fire , the 25th of September , 1693 , and the 1st of April , 1694 .
Since that Time the Shakes became visibly weaker and weaker , and at last entirely wasted .
As to the Earthquake which happen'dApril the 22d , 1717 .
early in the Morning , and of which the Author hath given a short Account by way of Appendix ; I shall not insist upon its Effect , being much the same with the former , though far inferior as to the Degree of Violence .
Thus far , what I could gather out of this Treatise , relating to the History of the Sicilian Earthquakes in 1693 and 1717 .
I proceed now , with all possible Brevity , to run over the several Observations , which our Author makes about the Causes and Effects of Earthquakes in general : He observes , That such Countries as abound much with Fossilcoals , as England , some Parts of Germany , and even Sicily itself , are more subject to Tremblings of the Earth , than any other .
That pestilential and other Diseases , which frequently follow great Earthquakes , are rather to be ascribed to noxious and infected mineral Effluvia , which upon such an Occasion issue out of the Earth through the several Openings , than to the Putrefaction of dead Bodies , which perished in the Earthquake , and were buried under the Ruins of destroyed Buildings .
That amongst the Minerals hidden in the Entrails of the Earth some are combustible , some not ; that of the combustible Ones , as Sulphur , Bitumen , Alum , Vitriol , Salt-Petre , &amp;c. some take Fire quicker than others ; that others , as Coals , are with greater Difficulty to be inflamed , but keep the Fire so much the longer ; that the Heat and sulphureous Smell of the Waters , which broke first through the Openings of the Earth , probably depends upon the Mixture and Fermentation of some of these Minerals .
That Baccius , Kircher , and others , which draw the Origin of the abovementioned sulphureous Lake near Mena , and of several others in other Places from the subterraneous Cavities of the Mountain AEtna , are much in the wrong , there being not the least Necessity of its being derived so far , since the Country every where abounds with combustible Minerals , which rather seem to entertain and nourish the fiery Eruptions of AEtna , than to be occasioned by them .
That the Sea 's retiring from the Shore , and sinking down , is the less to be wondered at , since there are many Examples in Histories of whole Towns and Islands swallowed low 'd up by it .
This Misfortune befel , according to Pliny , Tyndarida , formerly a famous City in Sicily .
That in all probability Sicily itself , which , by the Testimonies of Diodorus Siculus , Strabo , Pomponius Mela , Plinius , Solinus , Justinus , Seneca , and several others , both ancient and modern Authors , appears to have been formerly annexed to the Continent of Italy , by a small Neck of Land between the Cape of Messina and the lower Parts of Calabria , was separated from it by some violent Succussion of the Earth .
Thatthe ignivomous AEtna , far from being the Cause , as some imagine , of the Earthquakes , which so often desolate the Kingdom of Sicily , seems rather to have been created by the allwise Providence , in order to secure this Island by its fiery Eruptions from more frequent Misfortunes .
That contrary to what Aristotle and some others assert , solid and rocky Places receive infinitely more Damage by Earthquakes , than loose , sandy Grounds .
This appears by the Ruins of Catania , Leontini , Agosta , Syracusa , and Noto , which were all built upon a solid stony Ground , whereas Messina , though every where undermined by subterranean Cavities , was abundantly less shaken .
The remaining Part of the Book is employed about examining the Opinions of all the ancient and modern Philosophers about the Causes of Earthquakes , and establishing the Author 's own , which is , that the Earth is shaken by the Violence of subterraneous Fires , occasioned by the Fermentation of the combustible Minerals hid in its Entrails , and that the Effects of the Earthquakes may in all Regards be compared to the Effects of Mines .
By the way , he observes , that the Causes of Thunder , Lightning and Winds may be derived from the same Principle .

