V. A Letter from Mr. Colin Mac Laurin , Math. Prof. Edinburg .
F. R. S. to Mr. John Machine , Astr .
Prof. Gresh .
&amp; Secr. R. S. concerning the Description of Curve Lines .
Communicated to the Royal Society on December 21 , 1732 .
I Am informed that some Papers have been presented to the Royal Society of late , concerning the Description of Curves , in a manner that has a near affinity to that which I communicated to them of old , and have carried farther since ; and that it would not be unseasonable , nor unacceptable , if I should send an Account of what I have done further on that Subject since the Year 1719 .
The Author of those Papers taught Mathematicks here privately for some Years , and sometime ago ( viz. in 1727 .
) mentioned to me some Theorems he had on that Subject ; which , at the same time , I showed him in my Papers .
Some time before that , he showed me a Theorem which coincided with one of those in my Book , tho ' he seemed not to have observed that Coincidence ; and indeed Methods of that kind , are often found coincident that do not appear such at first sight .
I am unwilling to be the Occasion of discouraging any thing that is truly ingenious , and renounce any Pretensions of appropriating Subjects to my self ; but , on the contrary , wish Justice may be done to every Person , or to any Performance in Proportion to it Merit ; yet I find it is fit I should take Precautions , lest any one should take it in his head afterwards to say , I take things from him which I may have had long before him ; and therefore shall send you an Abstract of what I have done in relation to this matter , since the Year 1719 .
I have so much on this Subject by me , that I am at a loss what to send ; but at present I shall only give you an Abstract of those Propositions , which I take to be more nearly related to those which this Author has offered to the Society from the Conversations I had with him .
You know that in 1721 , I printed several Sheets of a Supplement to my Book on the Description of Curve Lines , which I have never yet published , having been engaged for the most part in Business of a different nature , and in Pursuits on other Subjects since that time .
I shall first give you an Abstract of that Supplement , as far as it was then printed , and shall subjoin to this , an Account of some Theorems I added to it the following Year , viz. in 1722 .
I was led into those new Theorems by Mr. Robert Sympson 's giving me at that time a Hint of the ingenious Paper , which has been since published in the Philosophical Transactions .
I had tried in the Year 1719 , what could be done by the Rotation of Angles on more than two Poles ; and had observed , that if the Intersections of the Legs of the Angles were carried over Right Lines , as in Sir Isaac Newton 's Description , the Dimensions of the Curve were not raised by this increase of the Number of Poles , Angles , and Right Lines ; and therefore neglected lected this at that time , as of no use to me ; confining my self to two Poles only , and varying the Motions of the Angles as you find them in my Book .
I found this by inquiring in how many Points the Locus could cut a Right Line drawn in its Plane , and found , by a Method I often use in my Book , that it could meet it in two Points only .
Having found then , that three or more Poles , were of no more Service than two , while the Intersections were carried over fixed Right Lines ; I thought it needless to prosecute that Matter then , since by increasing the Number of Poles , my Descriptions would become more complex without any Advantage .
But in June or July , 1722 , upon the Hint I got from Mr. Sympson of Mr. Pappus 's Porisms , I saw that what he has there ingeniously demonstrated , might be considered as a Case of the above mentioned Description of a Conick Section , by the Rotation of any Number of Angles about as many Poles ; the Intersections of their Legs , in the mean time , being carried over fixed Right Lines , excepting that of two of them which describes the Locus .
For by substituting Right Lines in place of the Angles , in certain Situations of the Poles and of the fixed Right Lines , the Locus becomes a Right Line ; as for Example , in the Case of three Poles , when these three are in one Right Line , in which Case the Locus is a Right Line , which is a Case of the Porism .
It was this led me to consider this Subject anew ; and first I demonstrated the Locus to be a Conick Section algebraically ; and found Theorems for drawing Tangents to it , and determining its Asymptotes .
I also drew from it at that time a Method of describing a Conick Section through five given Points a. This encouraged me to substitute Curves for the Right Lines , to see if by this Method I could be enabled to carry on my Theorems about the Descriptions of Lines through given Points to the higher Orders of Lines .
Some of the Theorems I found at that time , I now send you .
In November 1722 , looking into Sir Isaac 's Principla , I saw that the Description of the Conick Section by three Right Lines , moving as above , about three Poles , could be immediately drawn from his 20th Lemma , which itself is a Case of this Description .
This gradually led me to seek Geometrical Demonstrations for the whole , as far as it related to the Conick Sections .
I send you some Leaves of this Paper dated at Nancy , November 1722 .
Since that time , I have not added much to this Subject , but what relates to the drawing Tangents , determining the A symptotes , and the Puncta Duplica , or Multiplicia of these Curves .
I considered it the less , that I did not find it more advantageous in any respects , than the Method I had considered in my Book , or more general .
In 1727 I added to a Chapter in my Algebra , which is very public in this Place , an Algebraick Demonstration of the Locus , when three Poles are employed ; and the Method of describing a Conick a The Paper on this Subject I have , is dated July 31 , 1722 , at Sea , being then in my way to London , going for Cambray .
Section through five given Points , subjoining at the same time , that if more Poles are employed , and Angles or Right Lines , the Locus was still a Conick Section ; which I thought was a remarkable Property of the Conick Sections not observed before .
These Things I intended to put in order , and publish in the Supplement to my Book , a Part of which has been printed since the Year 1721 .
I have in my view also to give several other Things in that Supplement ; two of which , I shall only just mention at present , because I believe they are foreign to the present Affair .
I subjoin a Problem determining the Figure of a Fluid , whose Parts are supposed to be attracted to two or more Centers ; and a Solution of a general Problem about the Collision of Bodies .
The Author of the Papers given in to the Royal Society , will not refuse that I showed him the Theorems , I now send you , in 1727 .
He owned it last Summer at least : I am to publish these very soon .
Whether he has carried the Subject farther , I leave to the Judgment of the Gentlemen to whom they were referred .
As to the Demonstrations , it would take some time to put them in a proper Form to be published .
You who have so nice a Taste of Demonstrations , will easily allow , that it ought not to be done in a hurry .
I could send those that are Algebraick easily ; but do not care to send those that are Geometrical , till I have leisure .
I could not have been called to this in a worse Season of the Year than now , when I begin my Classes , and have few Minutes in the Day my own .
I ought to make an Apology for this long Letter ; but thought you was the Person of my Acquaintance most proper to send this to .
I am , with great Esteem , SIR , Your most obedient most humble Servant , Colin Mac Laurin .
An Abstract of what has been printed since the Year 1721 , as a Supplement to a Treatise concerning the Description of Curve Lines published in 1719 , and of what the Author proposes to add to that Supplement .
I. IN the first Part of the Supplement , there is a general Demonstration given of the Theorem , that if two Lines of the Orders or Dimensions , expressed by the Numbers m and n , be described in the same Plane , the greatest Number of Points in which these Lines can intersect each other , will be m n , or the Product of the Numbers which express the Dimensions of the Lines , or the Orders to which they belong .
II .
In the next Part , Theorems are given for drawing Tangents to all the Curves that were described in that Treatise by the Motions of Angles upon given Lines .
Their Asymptotes are also determined by more simple Constructions than those which are subjoined to their Descriptions in that Treatise .
Of these we shall give one Instance here .
Suppose the invariable Angles ( Fig. 1 and 2 ) FC G , KS H , to revolve about the fixed Points or KFE BEF K BQ Fig. 2 Fig. 1 M Q CS ANT ~ CST N A P G HP H G Poles , C and S. Suppose the Intersection of the two Sides C F , S K , to be carried over the Curve BQ M , whose Tangent at the Point Q is supposed to be the Right Line A E ; and let it be required to draw a Tangent at P to the Curve Line described by P the Intersection of the other two Sides CG and S H. Construction .
Draw QT constituting the Angle SQ T , equal to CQ A , on the opposite Side of SQ , that QA is from C Q ; and let QT meet CS ( produced if necessary ) in T. Join P T , and constitute the Angle CPN equal to SP T , on the opposite Side of C P , that PT is from S P , and the Right Line PN shall be a Tangent at P , to the Curve described by the Motion of P , which is always supposed to be the Intersection of CG and S H. The Asymptotes of the Curve , described by P , are determined thus .
Find , as in the abovementioned Treatise , when these Sides become parallel , whose Intersection is supposed to trace the Curve ; which always happens when the Angle CQS becomes equal to the Supplement of the Sum of the invariable Angles FC G , KS H , to four Right ones , because the Angle CPS then vanishes .
Suppose ( in Fig. 3 and 4 , ) that when this happens , the Intersection of the Sides C F , SK is found in Q. B E F K KEF B Fig. 4 Fig. 3 Q M MCANTS ST C AN G H G H DPPPDP Constitute the Angle SQT equal to CQ A , as before , and let QT meet CS in T. Take CN equal to S T , the opposite Way from C that ST lies from S. Through N draw DN parallel to CG or S H , which are now parallel to each other , and DN shall be an Asymptote of the Curve described by the Motion of P. If in place of a Curve Line BQ M , a fixed Right Line AE be substituted , then the Point P will describe a Conick Section , whose Tangents and Asymptotes are determined by these Constructions .
In this Supplement , it is afterwards shown how to draw the Tangents and Asympotes of all the Curves which are described in the above-mentioned Treatise by more Angles and Lines .
III .
The same Method is afterwards applied for to draw Tangents to Lines described by other Motions than those which are considered in that Treatise ; of which the following is an Instance .
Suppose that the Lines CP and SP revolve about the Poles C and S , so that the Angle ACP bears always the same invariable .
Proportion to AS P , suppose that of m to n. In the Line C S , take P Fig. 5 TCSN A the Point T , so that ST may be to CT in that same Proportion of m to n ; and this Point T will be an invariable Point , since CT is to C S , as m-n to n. Draw T P , and constitute the Angle SP N , equal to CP T , so that PN and P T , may lie contrary ways from SP and C P , and PN shall be a Tangent of the Curve described by the Motion of the Point P. Several other Theorems of this kind are subjoined here .
IV .
After these , Lines or Angles are supposed to revolve about three or more Poles , and the Dimensions of the Curves with their Tangents and Asymptotes are determined .
Suppose in the first Place , that the three Poles are C , S and D , and that Lines or Rulers C R , S Q , QD R , revolve about these Poles .
The Line which revolves about D , serves only to guide the Motion of the other two , so that its Intersection with each of them being carried over a fixed Right Line , their Intersection with each other describes the Locus , which is shown to be a Conick Section .
The Intersection of QDR with S Q , is supposed to be carried over the fixed Right Line A F ; the Intersection of the same QDR with C R , is supposed to be carried over the fixed Right Line A E ; and in the mean time , the Intersection of the Right Lines S Q , C R , that revolve about the Poles S and C , describes a Conick Section .
A Fig. 6 FE CS P QR D a This Conick Section passes through the Poles C and S ; and if you produce DC and D S , till they meet with AQ and HR in F and E , it will also pass through F and E : It also passes always through A the Intersection of the fixed Lines QF and E R ; from which this easy Method follows for drawing a Conick Section through five given Points .
Suppose that these five given Points are A , F , C , S and E : Join four of them by the Lines A F , F C , A E , E S , and produce two of these F C , E S , till they meet , and by their Intersection give the Point D. Suppose infinite Right Lines revolve about this Point D , and the Points C and S , two of those that were given , and let the Intersections of the Line revolving about D , with those that revolve about C and S , be carried over the given Right Lines A E , C F ; and the Intersection of those that revolve about C and S with each other , will , in the mean Time , describe a Conick Section , that shall pass through the five given Points A , F , C , S and E. It is then shown , that when C , S and D are taken in the same Right Line , the Point P describes a Right Fig. 7 A E S CR D MF B P Line ; as also when C , S and A are in the same Right Line ; which also follows from what is demonstrated in that very ingenious Paper concerning Pappus 's Porisms , communicated by Mr. Sympson , Professor of Mathematicks at Glasgow published in the Phil. Trans. No. 377 .
In the next Place it is shown , that if four Right Lines revolve about four Poles C , S , D and E , and those that revolve about D and E , serve only to guide those that revolve about C and S ; so that Q and R , the Intersections of that which revolves about D , with those that revolve about E and S , be carried over the fixed Lines AB and A F ; and M the Intersection of that which revolves about E with that which revolves about C , be carried over a third fixed Line B F , then the Intersection P of those that revolve about C and S , will in the mean time , describe a Conlck Section , and not a Curve of a higher Order .
The Conick Section degenerates into Right Lines , when CP and SP coincide at the same time with the Line C S , that joins the Poles C and S , as in the preceding Description ; which coincides again with what is demonstrated in the abovementioned ingenious Paper .
After this it is shown generally , that tho ' the Poles and Lines revolving about them be increased to any Number , and the fixed Lines over which such Intersections , as we described in the two last Cases , are supposed to be carried , be equally increased , the Locus of the Point P will never be higher than a Conick Section : That is , let a Polygon of any number of Sides have all its Angles , one only excepted , carried over fixed Right Lines , and let each of its Sides produced , pass through a a given Point or Pole , and that one Angle which we excepted , will either describe a straight Line , or Conick Section .
Thus if a hexagonal Figure LQ RPM N , have all its Angles excepting P carried reA D B ~L Q S Fig.8 a b NG g KkR Mh P E C H spectively over the fixed Right Lines A a , B b , G g , H h , K k , the Point P in the mean time will describe a Conick Section , or a Right Line .
The Locus of P is a Right Line when CP and SP coincide together with the Line C S. All these things are demonstrated geometrically .
V. After this , Angles are substituted in place of Right Lines revolving about these Poles ; and it is still demonstrated geometrically , that the Locus of P is a Conick Section or Right Line .
Suppose that there are four Poles C , S , D and E , about which the invariable Angles PC Q , PS R , RD M , MEQ revolve ; and that Q , M and R , the Intersections of the Legs CQ and E Q , of EM and D M , and of DR and S R , are carried over the fixed Right Lines A a , B b , and Gg respectively , then the Locus of P is a Conick Section , when CP and SP do not coincide at once with the Line C S , but is a Right Line when CP and SP coincide at the same time with C S , and never a Curve of a higher Order .
C A E Q Fig. 9 g a ~B pM R D G S VI .
Having demonstrated this which seems a remarkable Property of the Conick Sections or Lines of the Second Order ; I proceed to substitute Curve Lines in place of Right Lines in these Descriptions , ( as I always do in the Treatise concerning the Description scription of Lines ) and to determine the Dimensions of the Locus of P , and to show how to draw Tangents to it to determine its Asymptotes , and other Properties of it .
I had observed in 1719 , that by increasing the Number of Poles and Angles beyond two , the Dimensions of the Locus of P , did not rise above those of the Lines of the Second Order , while the Intersections moved on Right Lines ; and therefore I did not think it of use to me then to take more Poles than two , since by taking more , the Descriptions became more complex without any Advantage .
When the Intersections are carried over Curve Lines , the Dimensions of the Locus of P rise higher , but the Curves described , have Puncta Duplicia , or Multiplicia , as well as when two Poles only are assumed ; and therefore this Speculation is more curious than useful .
However , I shall subjoin some of the Theorems that I found on this Subject concerning the Dimensions of the Locus of P , and the drawing Tangents to it .
1 .
If in Fig. 6 .
you suppose Q and R to be carried over Curve Lines of the Dimensions m and n respectively , then the Point P may describe a Locus of 2mn Dimensions .
2 , If in Fig. 8 .
you suppose L , Q , R , M , N , to be carried over Curve Lines of the Dimensions m , n , r , s , t , respectively , the Locus of P may arise to 2mnrst Dimensions , but no higher ; and if in place of Lines revolving about the Poles , you use invarible Angles , the Dimensions of the Locus of P will rise no higher .
I. I 3 .
I then assumed three Poles C , D and S , and supposed one of the Angles SN L , to have its angular Point N carried over the Curve A N , while the Leg NQ passes always through S , as in the Description in the Treatise of the General Description of Curve Lines , while the Angles QD R , RC P , revolve about the Poles D and C : I suppose also the Intersections Q and R to be carried over the Curve Lines B Q , G R , and that the Dimensions of the curve Lines A N , B Q , G R , are m , n , r , respectively ; and find that the Locus of P may be of 3mnr Dimensions ; but that the Point C is such , that the Curve passes through it as often as there are Units in 2nm r. NA B Q PRS CGD 4 .
If any number of Poles are assumed , so as to have Angles revolving about them , as about C and D in the last Article , and the Intersections are carried over other Curves , the Dimensions of the Locus of P will be equal to the triple Product of the Number of Dimensions of all the Curves employed in the Description .
5 .
If the invariable Angles PN R , PM Q , move so that while the Sides P N , P M , pass always through the Poles C and S , the angular Points APB NDM R d CES Points N and M describe the Curves AN and B M ; and at the same time , the invariable Angle RD Q , revolve about the third Pole D , so that the Intersections R and Q describe the Curves ER and G Q ; then the Dimensions of the Locus of P , when highest , shall be equal to the quadruple Product of the Numbers that express the Dimensions of the given Curves A N , E R , GQ and B M , multiplied continually into each other .
If more Poles are assumed , about which Angles be supposed to move , as RDQ moves about D in this Description , and the Intersections of the Sides be still carried over Curves , as in this Example ; the Dimensions , of the .
Locus of P , when highest , shall still be found equal to the quadruple Product of all the Numbers that express the Dimensions of the Curves employed in this Description .
CPQG N ARKF L SB DE 6 .
Suppose that the three invariable Angles PQ K , KL R , RN P , move over the Curves G Q , E L , A N , so that the Sides P Q , K L , PN produced , pass always through the Poles C , D , S , and that the Intersections of their Sides K and R , at the same time move over the Curves FK and B R ; and the Dimensions of the Locus of P when highest , shall be equal to the Product of the Numbers that express the Dimensions of the given Curves multiplied by Six .
If more Poles , with the necessary Angles and Curves , are assumed betwixt C and D , as here D is assumed betwixt C and S , and the Motions be in other respects like to what they are in this Example ; then in order to find the Dimensions of the Locus of P when highest , raise the Number 2 to a Power whose Index is less than the Number of Poles by a Unit ; add 2 to this Power , and multiply the Sum by the Product of the Numbers that express the Dimensions of the Curves employed in the Description ; and this last Product shall show the Dimensions of the Locus of P when highest .
I am able to continue these Theorems much farther : But it is not worth while , especially since I find that there is not any considerable Advantage obtained by increasing the number of Poles above the Method delivered in the abovementioned Treatise of the Description of Curve Lines .
On the contrary , the Descriptions there given by means of two Poles , will produce a Locus of higher Dimensions by the same number of Curves and Angles , than these that require three or more Poles ; and are therefore preferable , unless perhaps in some particular Cases .
VII .
However , I have also found how to draw Tangents to the Curves that arise in all these Descriptions ; of which I shall give one Instance where three Right Lines are supposed to revolve about three Poles , and two of their Intersections are supposed to be carried over given Curve Lines , and the third describes the Locus required .
Let the Right Lines C Q , S N , D N , revolve about the Poles C , S , D , where that which revolves about D , serves to guide the Motion of the other two ; its Intersection with CQ moving over the Curve G Q , while its Intersection with SN moves over the Curve F N. Suppose that the Right Line Bb Gba P F D Q N R T LBAH CS touches the Curve GQ in Q , and that the Right Line Aa touches the Curve FN in N. In order to draw a Tangent to the Locus of P ; join D C , DS and C S , and constitute the Angle DQ R , equal to CQ B , so that QR lie the contrary way from QD that QB lies from Q C , and let QR meet DC in R. Constitute also the Angle DN T , equal to SNA with the like precaution , and let NT meet DS in T. Join R T , and produce it till it meet CS in H ; then join P H , and make the Angle CPL equal to SP H , so that PL and P H , may lie contrary ways from CP and S P ; and PL shall be a Tangent at P , to the Locus described by P , the Intersection of CQ and S N. I have also applied this Doctrine to the Description of Lines through given Points .
But I suppose I have said enough at present on this Subject ; and shall conclude , after observing that in the abovementioned Treatise , I have given an easy Theorem for calculating the Resistance of the Medium when a given Curve is described with a given centripetal Force in a resisting Medium , which I shall here repeat , because it has been misrepresented in a foreign Journal .
Let V express the centripetal Force with which the Body that is supposed to describe the Curve , is acted on in the Medium ; let v express the centripetal Force with which the same Curve could be described in a Void ; suppose Z= V/ v , and the Resistance shall be proportional to the Fluxion of Z multiplied by the Fluxion of the Curve , supposing the Area described by a Ray , drawn from the Body to the Center of the Forces , to flow uniformly .
Let this Theorem be compared with what the celebrated Mathematician mentioned by that Journalist has given on the same Subject , and it will easily appear what judgment is to be made of his Assertion ; and since several Persons , and particularly the Gentleman mentioned above in this Paper , testify that I communicated to them this Theorem before any Thing was published on this Subject by the learned Mathematician he names , his Observation on this Occasion must appear the more groundless .
From this Theorem , I draw this very general Corollary , that if the Curve is such as could be described in a Void by a centripetal Force , varying acX 2 cording cording to any Power of the Distance , then the Density of the Medium in any place , is reciprocally proportional to the Tangent of the Curve at that place , bounded at one Extremity by the Point of Contact , and , at the other , by its Intersection with a Perpendicular raised at the Center of the Forces to the Ray drawn from that Center to the Point of Contact .
Let AL be the Curve described by a Force directed to the Point S ; let LT touch the Curve at L , and raise ST perpendicular to S L , meeting LT in T , and the Density in L shall be universely as L T , if the Resistance be supposed to observe the compound Proportion of the Density , and of the Square of the Velocity .
T L A S Besides what I have observed here , I propose to illustrate and improve several other Parts of the Treatise concerning the Description of Curve Lines in this Supplement .
That Treatise requires these Additions and Illustrations the more , that tho ' the whole almost was new , it was published in a hurry , when I was very young , before I had time to consider sufficiently which were the best ways of demonstrating the Theorems , or resolving the Problems , for which this Supplement I hope , will make some Apology .
N. B. The following Paper , dated at Nancy , Novem .
27 , 1722 , is that which the Author mentions in his Letter .
SECTIO I. Prop. 1 .
Quae respicit descriptionem Linearum 1 .
Circa Polos C , B , D , moveantur rectae C d , B m , D r , &amp; ducatur concursus crurum B m , Dr per rectam CK PtF Su m rD d G v aLQ datam P G , concursus crurum C d , Dr per rectam PQ etiam datam &amp; concursus crurum C d , Bd sectionem conicam describet .
Ducatur rt parallela rectae BD positione datae occurrens rectae Bd in t ; jungatur Pt &amp; producatur donec occurrat rectae BD in F ; atque dabitur punctum F. Quippe cum detur ratio ru ad r t , eadem enim est ac DG ad D B , ob similes figuras DmBG &amp; rmta sitq ; ru ad r t , ut QG ad Q F , dabitur etiam ratio QF ad Q G ; adeoque ob datam QG dabitur Q F , &amp; proinde punctum F &amp; recta P F. Cum igitur Bt &amp; Cr parts abscindant P t , P r , a rectis positione datis P F , P Q , in data semper ratione erit illarum concursus d in sectione conica per Lemma 20 .
Lib. 1 .
Princip .
D. Neutoni .
Si punctum D sumatur ubicunque in recta B F , sitque semper DG ad QG ut BD ad Q F , eadem erit sectio conica quam d describet .
Sectio conica transit per C , P , B &amp; a complendo parallelogrammum , PSa Q. Transit etiam per L ubi recta BG producta occurrit ipsi P q , ut etiam per K ubi recta CD secat datam P G. Unde pentagonum PKCLB sectioni inscribitur .
Et si detur quinque puncta C , K , P , B , L , per quae ducenda est sectio conica vel circa pentagonum datum CLBPK circumscribenda sit sectio conica producantur duo quaevis latera C K , LB ad occursum suum D dein jungantur reliqua P L , PK &amp; ducantur semper concursus rectarum C d , D r ; B d , DR per rectas illas P L , P R , &amp; concursus d sectionem describet .
PRO P. II .
h NO QS M CLR FA~D PH G Circa data puncta F , C , G S , ut Polos moveantur , rectae F Q , C N , G Q , SL &amp; concursus rectarum FQ &amp; C N , FQ &amp; G Q , GQ &amp; S L , puncta scil .
M , Q , L , semper contingant rectas positione datas A E , B E , H L ; &amp; concursus rectarum C N , SL describet sectionem conicam .
Occurrant rectae A M , HR ipsi BQ in E &amp; H. Jungantur CF &amp; GS quae sibi mutuo occurrunt in D , jungatur DQ quae occurrat rectis C M , SL in N &amp; R ; &amp; si jungantur E N , &amp; H R , erunt EN &amp; H R , rectae positione datae per Lemma I* .
Quippe cum sint puncta F , C , D , in eadem recta Linea &amp; concursus rectarum F M , CM &amp; F Q , DQ percurrant datas rectas , concursus crurum C M , D Q , etiam continget datam .
Et simili ratione cum sint S , D , G in eadem recta concursus rectarum D Q , SL etiam continget datam .
Omissis igitur Polis F &amp; G , invenienda est curva quam concursus rectarum C N , S L , viz. P describet dum rectis C N , D N , SR revolventibus circa Polos C , D , S concursus rectarum C N , DN contingit datam EN &amp; concursus rectarum S R , DN contingit datam H R , eam vero sectionem esse conicam ex Prop. praecedenti est manifestum .
N. B. The Papers referred to were published in a little Treatise entitled , Exercitatio Geometrica de descriptione Curvarum .
Londin .
1733 .
4to .

