The Case of a Man , who died in consequence of the Bite of a Rattlesnake ; with an Account of the Effects produced by the Poison .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read December 21 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 75 .
] Thomas Soper , 26 years of age , was bitten by a rattlesnake on the 17th of October .
The snake had refused to bite a ruler with which it had been teased , but as soon as the man introduced his hand into the cage for the purpose of taking out the ruler which had dropped in by accident , the snake seized his hand , and made two bites in succession , one on the thumb , and another on the fore-finger .
The first person who saw him immediately after the bite supposed him to be intoxicated , and treated him accordingly ; but though it is known that he had been drinking , Mr. Home is inclined to ascribe the incoherence of his language and behaviour to the effect of the poison .
In the course of half an hour a swelling had taken place on his hand , and half way up the fore-arm , with a great deal of pain .
In an hour and half it reached the elbow ; in two hours it extended half way up toward the shoulder , with much pain in the axilla .
The man 's answers were incoherent , his skin cold , his pulse 100 in a minute , and he complained of sickness at the stomach .
In the course of eight or nine hours the pain became extremely violent , the swelling very tense , so that the arteries could not be perceived with accuracy , and no pulse could be felt in any part of it .
He was seized with fits of faintness every quarter of an hour .
The following morning his pulse was extremely feeble , and 132 in a minute .
The swelling had not extended beyond the shoulder to the neclk , but there was a fullnless of that side down to the loins , with a mottled appearance from extravasation of blood .
The arm conti .
nued cold , and painful when pressed , with several vesications near the elbow .
The skin of the whole arm had a livid appearance , similar to what is imet with in the dead body after putrefaction has begun to take place .
On the third day in the morning his pulse was scarcely perceptible ; his extremities were cold ; and the vesications were larger : but the swelling of the arm was diminished , and he had sensation in it down to the fingers .
On the fourth , fifth , sixth , seventh , eighth , and ninth days the swelling continued subsiding , but more painful ; and his pulse rising in strength , and diminishing in frequency .
But on the tenth , his pulse had increased , and the arm was again swelled and inflamed .
On the twelfth a large slough began to separate from the inside of the arm , below the axilla ; and on the following day a large abscess had formed on the outside of the elbow , and discharged a quantity of reddish matter , with slough of cellular membrane floating in it .
On the sixteenth , it appeared that mortification had taken place on the skin near the axilla ; and on the eighteenth he died ' .
The body was examined after death , and the appearances on dissection are described by Mr. Home .
The most remarkable circumstance observed , was the entire separation of the skin from the muscles of the arm , with the exception of two or three , to which it still adhered imperfectly by a dark-coloured cellular membrane .
The fluid in the pericardium , and blood in the aorta , had an unusual frothy appearance .
In addition to the foregoing case , Mr. Home add an account which had been sent from India to the late Dr. Russel , of a Sepoy , 60 years of age , who had been bitten by a Cobra di Capello , on the back part of the hand , in whom the symptoms were extremely similar to those which occurred in the case above described ; pain , faintness , sickness , with a quick and feeble pulse , swelling , discolouration , vesication , abscess , a copious dark and foetid discharge , continuing for about a week ; after which the man gradually recovered , excepting that one finger remained permanently extended .
Mr. Home also gives an account of two experiments which he made in the West Indies , on a couple of rats ; the first of which , after being bitten by a venomous snake , died in one minute after the bite ; and it is remarked , that the cellular membrane under the skinof the side bitten , was entirely destroyed .
The second rat , which was bitten one quarter of an hour afterwards by the same snake , wNas not so soon afected by the bite ; and bit the snake so violently in the neck , as to kill it in ten minutes .
The rat itself continued lively for nearly six horse , and then died .

