1884 .
] On the Most Widened Lines in Sun-spot Spectra .
443 dacece that these exceptional cases occur .
In the young leaves of Todea superba and of Osmunda-cinnamomea it was found that the apex is occupied by a well-marked , three-sided , conical , apical cell , from the three sides of which , segments are cut off in regular succession , as at the apex of the stem of Equisetum .
The apical cell is so placed that one side faces the ventral side of the leaf , while the remaining two sides are obliquely disposed with regard to the dorsal side of the leaf .
No clearly marked marginal series of persistently active cells have been found , giving rise to the pinnae , as is stated to be the case for the typical ferns .
Further , there appears to be no strict relation between the points of origin of the pinnae and the segments cut off from the apical cell .
The pinnae arise in acropetal -order .
In itself no great importance is to be attached to the difference between a three-sided and a two-sided apical cell .
For example , it has been clearly shown in a paper by Treub , on the vegetative organs of Selaginella Martensii , that the two forms of apical cell are to be found on different shoots of the same species .
But in the case of the leaf of the fern , the whole development , as described by Sadebeck and by Ruy , is so closely connected with the'existence of a two-sided cell that a departure from that arrangement is to be regarded as of more importance than would otherwise be due to it , and it appears to me to supply an intermediate step towards the more complex leaf of the Marathacece and Cycadece .
Finally , it is believed that this is the first described case of a clearly marked , three-sided , apical -cell occurring in the leaf of any plant .
Hole asserts that there is a wedge-shaped apical cell at the apex of the leaf of Angioptris , and describes it as being " of irregular cross-section .
" My own observations on this point , which will shortly be described in detail , show that there is no single , functionally active , apical cell in the leaf of Angiopteris evecta .
III .
" On the most Widened Lines in Sun-Spot Spectra .
First and Second Series , from November 12 , 1879 , to October 15 , 1881 .
" By J. N. Lockyer , F.R.S. Communicated to the Royal Society at the request of the Solar Physics Committee .
Received February 22 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) A preliminary report by Mr. Lockyer , written before the reduction of the observations given in the present paper was complete , was read to the Royal Society on December 15 , 1881 , and printed in the Proceedings ( vol. 33 , p. 154 ) ; In the present paper the author describes the plan of the observations and of their discussion , and presents some general conclusions .
444 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
On the [ Mar. 20 When observations of spot spectra were commenced in 1869 the original idea was to observe the behaviour of every line widened or brightened in the spectra of each spot .
It was soon found , however , that in this climate it was exceptional to do this completely on any one day .
Still , when it can be done , it is most important to secure such observations , and accordingly a complete method of reduction of such observations was suggested , laid before the Solar Physics Committee , , and published by them in their Report .
Laboratory observations soon* indicated the importance of having a series of strictly comparable observations .
It became obvious therefore that the observations would require to be considerably restricted .
One reason why it was important to- obtain such a series was that they might be compared with the complete records of bright lines seen in prominences given by Tacchini and others .
This consideration led to the .
suggestion that it would be advisable to take only the most widened lines , by which is meant the lines relatively the most thickened in the spots : accordingly the six most widened lines in each of the two regions , F to 6 , b to D , have been taken on every available opportunity. .
In this way a number of strictly comparable observations have been obtained .
Besides these observations , attempts have been made to photograph the spectra of sun-spots , and several photographs have been obtained .
In all H and K were seen reversed over the spots , , just as Young saw them at Sherman , while the blue calcium line was not reversed .
The dispersion employed , however , up to the present has not been sufficient .
Previous researches had shown\#151 ; 1 .
That with increased density in the spot-vapours we might expect an increase in the number of lines radiated , and therefore absorbed , either in the case of one vapour or of a mixture of vapours .
2 .
That an increased quantity of any one vapour in a mixture would increase the number-of lines visible in the spectra of that substance .
3 .
That since absorption will vary with temperature , and as absorption is effected at different heights in the solar atmosphere , where the temperatures are different , depending , upon the height on the average , the lines observed will vary according to the position of the absorbing stratum .
Information on all these points could be obtained by the method proposed , if the lines belonging to each substance were separately discussed afterwards .
An individual discussion of each substance then formed part of the plan of the work .
Some General Conclusions .
1 .
In the photographs of spectra of sun-spots the H and K lines were always reversed , while the blue calcium line was not .
1884 .
] Most Widened Lines Sun-spot Spectra .
445 2 .
On February 26th .
, 1880 , faint lines not marked in Angstrom 's atlas appeared among the most widened lines .
3 .
A change took place in the spectra of the sun-spots in May and June , 1881 , the old lines faded away and new lines appeared .
3a .
The lines of iron fade away from the spots as the maximum sun-spot period is .approached .
4 .
In October , 1881 , a similar change topk place , only much.more abrupt .
5 .
During the second hundred observations a much greater number of Fraunhoferic lines have been seen wider than in the first , but with less frequency .
6 .
The most widened lines have shifted towards the less refrangible part of the spectrum.7 .
In some spots certain lines have indicated change of refrangi-bility , while other lines in the same region have not done so .
7a .
On several occasions certain lines of iron have been seen in motion , while other lines in the same field of view have been at rest .
8 .
There are immense inversions in the lines seen widened in the spots from spot to spot , and from day to day .
9 .
There is a great inversion : between the iron lines seen among the most widened lines .
10 .
There are yet greater variations between the lines brightened in prominences and widened in spots .
11 .
On comparing Young 's chromospheric lines with the most widened lines , it is-found that the number of common lines increases till the end of the third period , and then it falls .
lla .
There is a great difference between* the lines seen in prominences by Young at the maximum , and those seen by Tacchini at the minimum sun-spot periods.- llb .
In the region between F and \amp ; there are no iron lines common to the most widened lines and Tacchini 's observations of prominences .
12 .
Even with a six-fold complexity I was unable to classify the most widened iron lines .
13 .
The spectrum of iron in the sun is more like that given by the spark than that given by the arc .
14 .
Of three iron lines at 4918*0 , 4919'8 , and 4923*1 the two former have been seen in spots among the most widened lines , while Tacchini and others have seen the latter without the former in prominences .
15 .
The prominence line 4923*1 is sometimes seen under certain conditions brighter than the longest iron line , in the region at 4956*7 .
16 .
The lines of iron , manganese , zinc , titanium , nickel , and copper most frequently seen in spots are different from those most frequently 446 On the Most Widened Lines in Sun-spot Spectra .
[ Mar. 20 seen in prominences , whilst in cobalt , chromium , and calcium they are the same .
17 .
The lines of iron , cobalt , chromium , manganese , titanium , and nickel seen in the spectra of spots and prominences are usually coincident with lines in the spectra of other metals with the dispersion employed , whilst the lines of tungsten , copper , and zinc are not .
* 18 .
All the lines of titanium seen among the most widened lines have either been greatly developed in passing from the arc to the Spark , or else have been seen only in the spark .
19 .
The lines of titanium , zinc , and nickel , seen widened in the fourth period , are not the same as those seen in the first .
20 .
Several of the new lines seen among the most widened lines occupy positions near those -occupied by titanium lines .
21 .
No lines of cobalt , manganese , chromium , copper , or tungsten , were seen in the fourth period .
22 .
A strong barium line has been seen once among the most widened lines ; it is a line greatly intensified in passing from the arc to the spark .
23 .
A hundred and one lines have been seen among the most widened lines which have no corresponding lines ( so far as is known ) in the spectra of the elements .
One of these lines has been seen frequently in prominences by Young , 24 .
So far as the observations have gone , there has been no difference caused by the nearness of the spot to the limb .

