24 Mr. C. Tomlinson on the Action of Solid Nuclei .
[ May 8 , it can be made to return into its own terminal , while the other takes no part in the discharge ; or , finally , the two terminals can be made to pour out independent discharges of the same name , each of which returns to its own terminal .
Having traced the relation between the two parts of the discharge , and having found means for controlling their range and influence , the authors were led to inquire whether there be any experimental evidence of the state of the tube during the occurrence of the discharge .
Some experiments with two pieces of tinfoil of unequal size placed near the ends of the tube and metallically connected ; and others with a strip of tinfoil placed along the tube , all gave effects showing that the discharge cannot be simultaneous throughout the tube .
The phenomena appear to require for their interpretation that , in front of the pulse coming from the ( positive ) air-spark terminal , there is , during the interval between the pulses , a rising negative potential .
This is entirely swept out by the pulse as it advances along the tube ; after which the process is repeated .
The condition of things behind the pulse is more difficult to determine ; but an experiment with the telephone gives reason to think that parts of the tube nearer to the non-air-spark end are in a condition to demand relief , before those nearer to the air-spark terminal have ceased to require it .
And on this account the discharge may , perhaps , be more nearly represented by a lazy tongs than by a bullet .
How far the results obtained from the sensitive state are applicable to ordinary discharges is a question which cannot yet be definitively answered .
But the marked similarities in the phenomena , and the predisposing circumstances of striation or non-striation , as well as in the terminal peculiarities of the two kinds of discharge , point strongly to the conclusions that all vacuum discharges are disruptive ; and that sensitive differ from non-sensitive discharges mainly in the scale of the discontinuity due to the disruptiveness , causing a difference between the two classes of phenomena analogous to that between impulsive and continuous forces in dynamics .
II .
" On the Action of Solid Nuclei .
" By Charles Tomlinson , F.R.S. Received April 22 , 1879 .
It is stated in my second paper on supersaturated saline solutions ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1870 , p. 53 ) , that among nuclear bodies " are permanently porous substances , such as charcoal , coke , pumice , meerschaum , " also that " certain liquids act as nuclei by separating water instead of salt from supersaturated solutions .
Absolute alcohol acts in this way .
" 1879 .
] Mr. C. Tomlinson on the Action of Solid Nuclei .
Some eminent observers have denied the accuracy of these statements .
Thus , M. Viollette concludes from his experiments that porous bodies , such as pumice , calcined baryta , - lime , and gypsum , and bodies greedy of water , and capable of being hydrated , such as calcined sulphate of iron and of copper , have no influence on supersaturated solutions .
This observer , believing , as he did , that the only nucleus is a salt of the same kind as that in solution , or one isomeric therewith , and that such nuclei are generally floating in the atmosphere , so ingeniously arranged his apparatus as to exclude the action of the air , and hence his results were of a negative character .
Mr. Liversidge ( " Proceedings , " vol. xx ) , actuated by the same idea , conducted his experiments on a similar principle , namely , that of excluding the air , and he also arrived at negative results .
He employed several solid dehydrating substances , such as freshly ignited quicklime , and placed them in thin glass bulbs , which , being sealed , were heated nearly to redness , and dropped into the supersaturated solutions .
The flasks were plugged with cotton wool , through which a glass rod was passed , and were then boiled up and allowed to cool during some hours ; when quite cold , the bulb was broken by means of the glass rod , and its contents were set free , but in no case with any result .
He also found by his mode of experimenting that porous bodies and absolute alcohol are inactive .
In the " Proceedings " vol. xxvii , p. 122 , some account is given by me of a series of observations , extending over several months , on the action of essential oils on a supersaturated solution of sodic sulphate .
It was found that when the wind at Highgate was in a southerly or westerly quarter , the oils were inactive ; but that they quickly became active when the wind was northerly or easterly .
A similar course of observations , though not extending over so long a time , has led to a similar conclusion respecting solid porous , and dehydrating bodies .
The solutions chiefly employed in the experiments that led me to this conclusion were those of sodic sulphate , sodic acetate , and alum , of various degrees of supersaturation .
The solid nuclei employed were chiefly pumice and plaster of Paris ; but others were also used , such as meerschaum , marble , lime from marble and chalk , coke , charcoal , and bread .
The flasks containing the solutions were sometimes carried into the Open air of my garden before being uncovered .
The plaster of Paris was taken out of a bottle by means of a small , clean , platinum spoon , and a fragment of pumice , about the size of a pea , was taken up with forceps , and thus dropped into the solution , the cover being immediately restored to the flask .
The active solid nuclei could be immediately rendered inactive by 26 Mr. C. Tomlinspn on the Action of Solid Nuclei .
[ May 8 , exposing them for a short time to the heat of the kitchen oven or to the flame of a spirit lamp , or even to the temperature of boiling water .
For this last purpose a test-tube was thrust through a flat cork , resting on the mouth of a large flask containing water , which was kept beiling .
The bottom of the tube containing the plaster , \amp ; c. , did not pass beyond the centre of the flask .
In about ten minutes the nuclei were thus rendered inactive , and they did not recover their activity in atmospheres of carbonic acid , nitrogen , hydrogen , and nitrous oxide , after several days or even weeks .
But they frequently became active in oxygen , and generally so in oxygen or air ozonised by the action of phosphorus , and always so by a short exposure to the outer air , when the wind was northerly or easterly .
Inactive plaster of Paris has been exposed all night to the air of my garden during a south-west wind , without becoming active .
Fragments of pumice exposed to the air of my laboratory for days together , without becoming active , have regained their activity within ten minutes on being exposed to the open air during a northerly wind .
Snow was also found to be active .
The details of a few experiments may not here be out of place .
The wind at Highgate , from the 28th March to the 8th April , was southerly and westerly .
During all this time some plaster of Paris , rendered inactive by heat , was freely exposed on a flat glass plate to the open air of my garden , and remained inactive .
On the 9th the wind passed round to the east , and remained so during some hours , gently blowing ; the plaster became active on solutions of sodic sulphate and sodic acetate .
Fragments of pumice , meerschaum , and coke , rendered inactive by the heat of the oven , were put into carbonic acid on the 28th March , where they remained until the 9th April , when they were still found to be inactive on solutions of sodic sulphate .
They were exposed to the air of my garden , and became active in rather more than two hours .
A similar result was obtained with inactive fragments that had been kept in nitrous oxide .
Mr. Grenfell ( " Chemical News , " xxxix , 16 ) is of opinion that the action of nuclei in bringing about the solidification of these solutions is entirely due to absorption .
In one of his ingenious experiments , filtering paper , folded a number of times into a long spill , is passed down the neck of the flask so as to touch the solution , the effect being to render it solid either at once or after some time .
I repeated this experiment , with this modification , namely , that of placing the spills in the kitchen oven for about a quarter of an hour ; they were then passed down the narrow necks of some flasks which they fitted with friction , and the ends were made to dip just below the surface of a solution of sodic acetate ( 3 to 1 ) .
One of the flasks was 1879 .
] Mr. C. Tomlinson on the Action of Solid Nuclei .
immediately covered with a jar of nitrogen and the other with a jar of air .
After three days the solutions were still liquid .
The spills were then removed , and fresh ones , not previously heated , were introduced , when one solution immediately became solid , and the other some time after .
If the filtering paper , pumice , plaster , \amp ; c. , acted by absorption , then the effect of heat would be to increase the absorptive power , and consequently their activity as nuclei ; whereas the contrary result is obtained , so that absorption does not seem to be a vera causti .
When it is stated that the nuclei became active on being exposed to certain winds in preference to others , the locality in which the experiments were conducted must be taken into account ; for , as Professor Stokes suggested at the reading of my former paper , a westerly or southerly wind might be equally active in another place .
I found this to be the case at Eastbourne , where a westerly wind produced , in the course of ten minutes , a deep orange-brown stain on ozone test-paper , and made the oils singularly active after a few minutes ' exposure .
For example , on the 10th of June oil of lemons was inactive in the house , but on being exposed to a strong south-west wind from the sea , about a mile away from the town , it became viscid in the course of a few minutes ' exposure , so that it dropped very slowly .
The solutions , on contact with this oil , immediately became solid .
On the 11th , a limpid paraffin oil , on being redistilled , was inactive within doors .
It was taken to the end of the pier , 1,012 feet from the shore , and exposed in drops to a strong westerly wind for about three minutes , when it became powerfully active .
On the 13th there was scarcely any wind , but what there was was west south-west .
Freshly distilled oil of cajuput was inactive within doors , but , on being exposed to the outer air foy about fifteen minutes , it became active .
In July , at Bournemouth , the weather was sultry ; ozone test-paper was scarcely acted on , even aftes .
an exposure of some hours , and inactive oils did not become active under the influence of the air .
In September , at Dench worth , near Wantage , ozone was abundant , judging from its action on test-paper .
Some inactive turpentine oils thickened on being exposed to the air ( wind north and south-east ) , and the effect on the solutions was decisive .
Before concluding I must refer to the nuclear action of alcohol .
In order to test this once more , a day was selected when the wind was in the east , when rain had fallen during some hours , and continued to fall all the time the experiments were being conducted in the open air of my garden .
About ten flasks of sodic sulphate ( 3 to 1 ) , and about the same number of potash alum ( 4 to 3 ) were prepared .
In filling the belly of the flasks about half full , a small funnel with a long stem was used , and was dipped into warm water after each filling , so as not to soil the necks of the flasks ; and in reboiling , each flask was 28 Mr. C. Tomlinson on the Action of Solid Nuclei .
[ May 8 , placed at an angle of about 45 ' , so that if any spitting occurred it would be against the belly of the flask and not into the neck .
The necks were covered with small beakers , taken out of water , and the flasks were thus conveyed to the outer air and left to cool , the temperature being 40 ' .
When cold , some absolute alcohol in a small clean beaker was taken up by means of a clean dropping tube , and a single drop or a number of drops was delivered to the surface of each solution without contact with the interior of the neck , the covering beaker , in each case , being lifted a little on one side so as not completely to uncover the mouth of the flask or admit the rain .
The sodic sulphate solution in several cases became solid directly the alcohol reached it ; in other cases after some minutes ; in two flasks the alcohol acted by determining a copious deposit of the modified salt , * but the solution in one of them became solid on gently shaking it , and in the other equally so on adding a few more drops of alcohol .
In the case of the alum solution the results were similar .
As soon as the alcohol reached the surface there was a sort of trembling motion , as if the surface tension had been disturbed , and also a kind of viscous disturbance in the solution ( phenomena equally applicable to the sodic sulphate solutions ) , when suddenly a single octohedral crystal would start into existence just below the surface ; or , if a number of drops of alcohol had been added , a multitude of minute octohedra would all at once appear at the surface plane between the two liquids ; or , thirdly , the action would begin from the bottom , and a large crystalline mass be formed , while heat currents rapidly ascended ; or , fourthly , on gently shaking the flask , an immense assemblage of chalky-white points filled the solution and made it opaque .
In no case did the alcohol fail to exert a nuclear action .
By way of contrast with the above results , the experiments were repeated on another wet day , when the wind was veering between south-east and south-west .
The alcohol was now inactive so far as the solidification of the solutions was concerned , but active in throwing down a large quantity of the modified salt .
The day after this the wind blew steadily from the north , and alcohol , ether , naphtha , and wood spirit were all active on solutions of sodic sulphate and potash alum , the former becoming solid immediately , and the latter within two or three minutes .
Now , if it be still asserted that whenever these solutions become * Lowel , in his first memoir , says that if alcohol be introduced into a supersaturated solution of sodic sulphate , it immediately produces the ten-atom or normal salt with solidification of the solution ; but if a large quantity of alcohol , at 36 to 40 ' C. , be introduced , crystallization does not take place on cooling .
If now the flask be left to repose , the alcohol takes water from the solution , concentrates it , and in two or three days produces the seven-atom or modified salt in fine crystals on the surface of the liquid in contact with the alcohol .
1879 .
] Results of Magnetical O1875-76 .
solid , a salt of the same kind is the nucleus , and that snch a nnclens is present in the air , I must leave the proof of the assertion to those who make it or defend it .
I cannot imagine what can be the sonrce of the alum nucleus , for example , in the above experiments , limited as they were by such well-defined conditions .
M. Gernez can only account for the existence of alum in the air on the supposition that as a good deal of that salt is used in dye-works , it must escape into the air from such a source .
Until it can be proved that on a wet day and while rain is still falling there is alum in the open air , I must continue to maintain my original statement that alcohol is , under proper conditions , capable of determining the solidification of these solutions .
I have several times noticed the persistence of nuclear action on the part of a dense charcoal , such as that made from box-wood .
A small piece of such charcoal was boiled in a solution of potash alum ( 4 to 8 ) .
When cold , a large crystalline mass was found attached to the charcoal .
The flask was reboiled five times in the course of a week , and each time the same result appeared when the flask had become cold .
I have referred to bread as a nucleus , and the action is curious .
New bread is not nuclear ; but if stale bread , such as a second day 's loaf , be cut open with a clean knife , and bits of the crumb be dug out , they act powerfully as nuclei on solutions of sodic sulphate and alum .
If such bread be slowly toasted before the fire , it becomes inactive ; but if it contain alum , it is active on solutions of potash or ammonia alum ( about 1 to 1 ) , whether the bread be new or stale , toasted or not .
Treated by this test , I have found the bread of Highgate to contain alum ; but some bread from Drury Lane gave most decided evidence of its presence .
III .
" On the Results of the Magnetical Observations made by the Officers of the Arctic E^edition , 1875-76 .
" By Staff-Commander E. W. Creak , R.N. , attached to the Admiralty Compass Department .
Communicated by Captain F. J. 0 .
Evans , C.B. , F.R.S. , Hydrographer of the Admiralty .
Received April 25 , 1879 .
The following narrative and results form the sequel to the Memorandum on Terrestrial Magnetism , " prepared by Professor J. 0 .
Adams , M.A. , P.R.S. , and Captain F. J. Evans , R.N. , F.R.S. , published in the " Manual and Instructions for the Arctic Expedition , 1875 , " suggested by the Arctic Committee of the Royal Society .
The " Alert " and " Discovery " left Portsmouth on the 29th May , 1875 , and on arrival at Godhavn , in Disko , the first magnetic observations were made .
The values of the declination and inclination

