]\gt ; Prof. J. W. Nicholson .
constituted of such alternating pulses ; the at which this law intensity varies as begins to sert itself affords a measure of the on a ray over which corr -ation extends , viz. of the mean effective length of the constituent pulses in ordinary light .
Scrutiny of the variation of the intensity of Bubens ' quartz Reststrahlen ( 1901 ) with temperature seems to indicate correlation extending sensibly over a range of about six wave-lengths of yellow light , for the case of these waves at ordinary temperatures ; but the formula of Planck with modern values of the constants , not specially adjusted for long waves , gives as much as times this range for natural radiation .
It would , of course , be possible for a graph , like the residual graph of sunspots , to be devoid of correlation over the short range that is available for scrutiny , though it would come in on a much coarser scale over a long range .
] The Lateral of Bars of Section .
By J. W. NICHOLSON , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Mathematics in the University of London .
Received May 11 , 1917 .
) The present investiyaGion , o strictly mathematical in character , arose in connection with a suggestion , put forward by Prof. A. Dendy and the present author in another paper communicated to the Society , *that the siliceous deposits found on certain spicules occurred at nodes of the spicules , regarded as vibrating rods .
Ihese vibrations , being set up and maintained by the impact of currents of water on the spicules , are necessarily of the lateral type .
For the detailed examination of such a suggestion , it is necessary to obtain a comprehensive account of the positions of the fundamental nodes on a free-free bar , as dependent on the law of variation of its cross-section .
The present paper contains , in fact , the formal analysis whose results were quoted without proof in the other This analysis is of considerable generality , as will appear , and the particular examples selected for purposes of illustration , together with the manner in which the variable cross-section is dealt with , have been determined by the reqnirements of the biological application already mentioned .
One general problem is in viqw throughout the work , and it may be stated as follows:\mdash ; * ' Boy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 89 , p. 573 ( 1917 ) .
The of Bars of Variable Section .
If the curve revolves about the axis of a solid , to determine the positions of the nodes when a laterally vibrating free-free bar is formed from two equal halves fitted ether at their thicker ends , each half being a section of the solid by the plane .
The bar is of length and is shown in the figure .
If the circular ring of centre lies in a nodal plane , it is at once evident that the ratio is a function only of the index .
By the detailed discussion of suitable cases , it is possible to derive an interpolation formula giving the ratio as a function of , from which the position of in any practical case can be found .
The results are independent of the absolute dimensions of the bar , and the range of variation of is between zero and unity .
Attention will be confined to the fimdamental bi-nodal vibration , in which the two nodes are equidistant from the free ends .
The ratio will be called the\ldquo ; nodal ratio and , in the case of a uniform bar , its value is known to be Apart from Lord discussion of the effe , of a slight lack of uniformity in ection , which is not applicable to problems of the type now contemplated , the only detailed treatment of a bar of non-uniform section appears to be that of Kirchhoff , who has discussed the vibrations in two which admit of a fairly } ) solution in terms of Bessel functions .
One relates to a rod of prismatic section , and the other to a sharp cone , which is relevant to our present object , being a special case of the solid generated by the revolution of the curve with ?
, round its axis .
Kirchhoff , however , has not treated the double cone or discussed the positions of nodal planes .
When rotatory inertia is neglected\mdash ; in accordance with the well-known discussion of its effect and degree of and when the displacements are retained only to the first order after the usual manner of small oscillations , the equation of motion may be obtained very simply in the usual form , * Lord Rayleigh , ' Theory of Sound , ' vol. 1 , p. 256 . .
cit. , p. 264 .
'Sitz .
der Akad .
zu Berlin , ' 1879 , p. 815 .
S .
cit. , p. 289 .
Prof. J. W. Nicholson .
where is the density of the material , its cross-section at distance from the origin , taken for convenience at a free end , and the bending moment , given by The displacemement at any point is is the modulus of elasticity , and the radius of gyration of the area of cross-section about an axis in its plane its centroid and perpendicular to that of the bar .
We only consider circular sections , for which , where is the radius at the point or Thus and the equation of motion becomes For a vibration of period and therefore where If ( say ) , ( 1 ) where is a new variable , we find as the characteristic differential equation .
It is convenient to discuss the special case of a double conical rod before proceeding to its general treatment .
Conical Rod.\mdash ; In this case , , and it is possible to write the rential equation in the form so that solutions of the equations ( 3 ) are solutions of the equation of the fourth order .
This reduction to two equations of the second order is not , ever , possible for any value of The new equations become When the lower sign is taken in the ambiguity , the general solution becomes The Lateral Vibrations of of Variable Section .
509 where is the Bessel function of order 2 , and the corresponding function .
With the upper of the ambiguity , the functions being now the so-called " " Bessel functions of inary ument and being arithmic .
The general solution of the funda- mental equation is , ( 4 ) where are constants determined by the conditions of support of the bar .
If the end is free , , so that the ement may hot be infinite like .
The shearing stress and moment are respectively proportional to , ( 5 ) and vanish with under the same circumstances .
Thus when is a free end .
( 6 ) As stated already , we only consider , in detail , the bar made up of two precisely equal ends .
If its is , the other end is , or ( say ) .
( 7 ) When the bar is vibrating symmetrically in the -nodal vibration , the displacements at the points and , or and , are equal .
Thus , for the bar between , ( 8 ) the centre of the bar corresponding to The displacement and its derivative , as yiven by ( 6 ) and ( 8 ) , musC be continuous at or , by symmetry , , and the shearing stress is zero , at the same position .
These conditions are not independent .
When is evidently continuous from ( 6 ) and ( 8 ) .
Since , : I2 I3 , the condition at yields .
( 9 ) The same ndition follows from tho continuity of , for its values are Prof. J. W. Nicholson .
equal and opposite on either side of , and therefore zero ; is continuous at automatically by ( 6 ) and ( 8 ) , since , .
The final condition is that obtained from the absence of shearing stress at , or which becomes or .
( 10 ) Comparing ( 9 ) and ( 10 ) , it is evident that , and that the period equation is .
( 11 ) The functions of Type I thus disappear for a double conical bar vibrating symmetrically , and the period equation is simpler than in any of the cases treated by Kirchhoff .
The displacement becomes and the nodes occur where .
( 12 ) With as in ( 1 ) the nodes are at , where the length of the rod being For the fundamental vibration , quoting the known values of the roots of these equations , * , ( 13 ) and the nodal ratio is In the second tone , , 8.417 , ( 14 ) the ensuing nodal ratios being For the third , , ( 15 ) and the three nodal ratios are Bourget , ' Ann. de l'Ecole Normale , ' vol. 3 ( 1866 ) .
Lateral vibrations of Bars of Variable Section .
The three gravest notes emitted in the symmetrical vibrations are , since in the formula for , where is the radius of the thickest cross-section , and their periods are .
( 16 ) General atever the value of 7 ?
in ( 2 ) within certain limits , it usually occurs that the equation has two solutions inapplicable , on account of an infinity , to a free end at .
For a free-free bar consisting of two similar halves , the appropriate solution is therefore of the form ( 17 ) where A and are two arbitrary constants .
In the case of symmetrical vibrations , and at the centre .
Thus when , the central value .
Eliminating A and , the period equation becomes , if , , , ( 18 ) the accent denoting differentiation to with When and are expressed in series , it is necessary to express the left side of this equation also as a series , and its general term can always be found by use of a differential equation , of higher order , which we may call a " " differential period equation This will now be obtained .
If in ( 2 ) we write , it becomes , in terms of this new variable or .
( 19 ) Let and be any two solutions .
Then .
( 20 ) Prof. J. W. Nicholson .
Let the bracket be called .
Then the period equation is , ( 21 ) where .
We form a differential equation for Let be a symbolic representation of , so that , and , for example , Moreover , , and and we have by ( 19 ) , and so on .
These examples illustrat .
the main properties of the symbolic notation .
We find , ( 23 ) , ( 24 ) whence , by differentiation , , ( 25 ) and , combining the last three equations , , ( 26 ) where .
( 27 ) By further differentiation , or , eliminating and by ( 22 ) and ( 26 ) , .
( 28 ) Again differentiating , and eliminating or and , ( 29 ) and the same operations again , .
( 30 ) The Lateral Vibrations of Bars of Section .
Finally eliminating and from ( 28-30 ) , and terms , which is the required differential equation of the sixth order , from which the period equation may be derived .
Its use is not , in fact , restricted to the special forms of end-conditions with which this paper deals , and its order can be reduced in many cases .
The Double Paraboloid.\mdash ; We proceed to a detailed calculation for a freefree rod composed of two equal halves , as in the case of the double conical rod , each half being bounded , in any plane the axis , by the parabola between and .
Thns , and the fumdamental equation becomes , since .
( 32 ) The two series solutions finite at are obtained at once in the forms .
( 33 ) Thus .
D-l by ( 20 ) , begins with a term in .
The equation ( 31 ) of the sixth degree becomes ( D-1 ) and its series solution , with the leading term , is The period equation is , by ( 21 ) , which takes the form ( 35 ) when This series is very convergent , as are the corresponding series for other of Prof. J. W. Nicholson .
the more interesting values of .
The first solution of the equation is readil .
found to be , ( 36 ) whence , ( 37 ) these series being also very convergent , and suitable for calculation , and the displacement is given by the form , ( 38 ) vanish when .
The node occurs where whose solution is Thus for the fundamental vibration , and the nodal ratio is .
( 39 ) Now by ( 1 ) and if is the semi-breadth at the thickest part , defines , and , so that whence the period of the vibration is .
( 40 ) The Case \mdash ; If , the characteristic equation ( 19 ) becomes which admits two solutions finite at , in the forms .
S. .
( 41 ) The function \mdash ; QD ( D-I)(DI)P 1 has a leading term , and satisfies the equation of the sixth order , ( 42 ) The Lateral Vibrations of Bars of riable Section .
5 15 whose series solution with this term is , in powers of where so that The period equation is or finally , ( 44 ) .
The first root can be determined to four significant figures by including only five terms of the series .
If , we find whence The period of the bar is then determined .
The shape of one-half is given by the equation , whence , if is the half-breadth at its centre , , and so that .
( 46 ) The eneral formula is in fact for value of For the values of and in ( 41 ) , and the nodes occur where , ( 48 ) Prof. J. W. Nicholson .
whose solution is , so that the nodal ratio is , becoming The values of this ratio for and were ) , and the value for is almost precisely the mean of these , so that the change with is practically uniform in this region .
This uniformity , however , does not extend to , in which case the ratio is , and in order to obtain material for subsequent interpolation a arate investigation for is desirable .
The Case \mdash ; For this value of .
the characteristic equation becomes and three series solutions , whose leading ternls .
are 1 , .
The fourth solution is of a logarithmic type which cannot occur with a free end at The be.nding moment at the free end is proportional to and vanishes for the form derived from these three solutions .
The shearing stress , which is the derivate of the bending moment , will not vanish unless .
Thus only two of the series solutions , and , are required , where we find .
( 49 ) Moreover , ( 50 ) and the period equation is whose first solution is found to be ( 51 ) after calculation .
The node is iven by , ( 52 ) whence , by trial and error , .
The nodal ratio is and the fundamental vibration has a period , ( 54 ) with the usual nificance of Tloe Lateral of of Section .
517 Discussion of the Resnlts.\mdash ; In the following Table , the main ults worked out in detail are , for the fundamental symmetrical vibrationl corresponding to any value of in the equation of the boundary .
for are already well known .
The length of the rod , and the greatest breadth atio .
Frequency ( 8.0296 ) The frequency rises with the value of , but not in a linear manner , and an interpolation formula in powers of between and 1 is not satisfactory , though it can be used oyer a of extent only .
The nodes move towards the centre , as would ) expected , as increases , although he nodal ratio is not quite .
suitable for the usual mode of interpolation except oyer more limited ranges .
But when a great degree of accuracy is not ured the interpolation formula Ratio ( 55 ) gives good results .
It may be illustrated by the spicules mentioned in the introduction , , on the magnified described in the other paper , had a length whose mean value was about 80 mm. The actual by the interpolation formula are : Ratio where is the error .
The greatest error in nodal length on any spicule between and , to which the values of ?
were always found to be restricted , cannot exceed mm. , or , which within the possible error of measurement .
The of this formula in the paper is therefore justified .
It is evident that the most important determining feature in the nodal distance is the mean value of the rod , and the factor is contained in the mean , so that the type of formula some physical .
The best formula which can apparently be found is atio .518 Prof. J. W. Nicholson .
with three constants , giving the values Ratio and the ratios for any values of between and 1 are now known with great precision .
A formula which will give the frequencies with great accuracy is Frequency where The errors in the values of thus obtained are respectively , corresponding to the entries for in the Table .
The extent to which these interpolation formulae can be used outside the range to 1 has not been investigated .
In the last formula , and are the semilength and semi-greatest breadth of the bar .
Considerations.\mdash ; For the purpose of numerical computation , solutions , such as that given for , in terms of Bessel functions are not of greater advantage .
If the case were treated by the present method , we should find and the period equation , ( 59 ) whose first solution is easily verified to be , in freement with the first root of , which is an equation in powers of and not of .
The period equation in fact contains as a factor , and the other factor is not oscillatory .
investigation of the conical rod appears to imply that it is the only form derived from a reyolution of the curve , which admits a solution in terms of Bessel functions .
This is not in fact the case , for some other forms possess this property .
Their complete classification would lead us too far from the special problem investigated in this paper , but the following may be cited as examples:\mdash ; \mdash ; The complete solution of the equation is .
( 60 ) The Vibrations of of Variable Section .
( b ) \mdash ; The complete solution of the equation is , ( 61 ) where and are logarithmic .
The paper contains a discussion of the lateral vibrations of bar of two equal halves , and free each end .
Each half consists of a pol.bion of the solid enerated by the reyolubion of the curve / about its axis , and the fundamental frequencies and positions of the corresponding nodes are ated for various of between and 1 .
The tion proceeds according to a general method of determining the period equation as a series of } ding powers of a variable general can be found from a differential equation of the sixth The pecial values of for which computations the made were selected in accordance with the needs of a preceding .
paper on the of sponge-spicules by Prof. Dendy and writer .
The endence of the frequency and nodal distance the indcx is finally expressed by interpolation formulae which can give an accuracy of about 1 part in 100 , within the to

