380 The Action of Radium and certain other Salts on Gelatin .
By W. A. Douglas Budge , M.A. ( Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 7 , \#151 ; Read June 21,1906 .
) [ Plate 7 .
] The action of radio-active substances on gelatin media has recently attracted attention .
In ' Nature '* there appears a letter by J. B. Burke , in which the writer states that certain " bacterial-like " cells are obtained as the result of the action , the cells grow up to a certain stage and subdivide , they contain a nucleus , and appear to be highly organised bodies .
The author has made numerous experiments on this subject , and has made several communications to ' Nature ' and to the Cambridge Philosophical Society .
The present paper deals chiefly with the results obtained by the aid of photography , which obviously is a much more satisfactory method of recording than mere drawing .
The word " growth " is used to indicate the action , but must not be taken to imply that anything of the nature of living growth has occurred .
Two methods of working were employed : ( 1 ) for unaided eye observation ; ( 2 ) for microscopic examination .
In the first method small Soyka flasks with parallel sides were employed to hold the gelatin culture medium .
The flask was about hall ' filled with the gelatin and sterilised in the usual way by steaming .
A few specks of the radium salt were then placed on the surface of the gelatin and the effect watched .
At once a whitish patch was seen to develop round the .
speck , the patch rapidly increasing in size , so that at the end of 10 minutes it appeared like a growth of ordinary mould .
Plate 7 , fig. 1a , represents the appearance of the growth at the end of about an hour .
The patch continued to grow , but at a much slower rate , and in some cases reached a maximum in less than a day , the time required depending upon the stiffness of the jelly and upon the class of gelatin used .
Several samples of radium salts of different degrees of purity were used , and it was seen that the rate and amount of growth did not depend upon the amount of radium present in the sample .
Solutions of the salts were sometimes used , but the solid material was more satisfactory ; the general * Yol .
72 , p. 78 .
The Action of Radium and certain other Scdts on Gelatin .
381 result was , however , the same .
As radium salts are composed in the main part of barium salts , it seemed likely that the latter might have some effect upon the gelatin , and this was found to be the case , a growth being produced which seemed identical with that produced by the radium salt ( fig. 1b ) .
Fig. 2 shows the extent to which the growth had penetrated after 36 hours , and after which it ceased to increase .
A systematic examination was next made with all kinds of metallic salt , with the result that only those of strontium and lead , besides radium and barium , gave any decided effect .
As these metals are those which form insoluble sulphates , it seemed likely that the growth originated about the precipitates which form with the sulphur compounds present in the gelatin .
As the use of the gelatin in the culture material is simply for the purpose of localising the growth , by keeping it more or less fixed , the effect of using other glutinous or mucilaginous substances instead of gelatin was tried .
The substances thus employed were agar-agar and several varieties of starch and gums , sufficient being added to the meat solution to cause it to solidify .
When this was done it was found that if distilled water was used in making up the jelly , no growth could he seen , but if tap water was used a slight growth made its appearance , and if a soluble sulphate was previously added , then a very dense growth appeared .
It thus was quite evident that the presence of a sulphate was necessary for the formation of the growth , and attention was then directed to the gelatin to ascertain whether sulphuric acid or a sulphate was usually present .
Between 30 and 40 samples of gelatin were examined and , with three exceptions , all contained sufficient sulphuric acid to give a distinct , sometimes a dense , precipitate with barium chloride in presence of nitric acid.* ' The gelatin solutions were prepared by washing the sample six times with distilled water , allowing it to soak for some time before decanting , then dissolving in sufficient distilled water to make a thin jelly .
Two samples of commercial Bussian isinglass and one sample of gelatin prepared by the author from fresh calf skin failed to give a precipitate with barium or radium salts , but in each of these cases a growth could be obtained by adding a soluble sulphate .
If a barium salt gave no precipitate with the gelatin , then radium salt failed to produce a growth .
It thus seemed clear that the growth originated about the precipitate of barium sulphate .
The growth continues to extend for some time into the gelatin , but after a while it stops .
The reason for this extension of the growth from the point of contact appears to be as follows : the gelatin allows of a slow diffusion of the * The precipitate was analysed in several cases , and was found to consist of BaS04 .
Mr. W. A. D. Rudge .
Action [ June 7 , barium salt through it , and as there is only a small amount of sulphuric acid present the barium is in excess and , therefore , after forming a precipitate in the first layers of the gelatin , sufficient barium salt is left , which , diffusing onwards , causes further precipitation in the succeeding layers , but eventually all the barium salt is used up by combining with the sulphuric acid and then the growth reaches its limit .
A proof of this theory is given by the fact that , with samples of gelatin containing a ( relatively ) small amount of sulphuric acid , the growth , although much less dense , extends for a greater distance .
Figs. 3 and 4 are photographs of two flasks containing very pure gelatin .
To 3 there was added a small amount of calcium sulphate solution , to 4 twice the amount was added .
The growth can be seen to extend much further into the gelatin in 3 than in 4 , although it is much less dense .
Many observations confirm this .
As the experiments conducted in the flask did not admit of the action being watched from the beginning , another method was adopted which allowed of continuous observations being made .
This method consisted in placing a little of the melted jelly upon a glass slip and , after allowing it to solidify , adding a speck of the salt whose action was to be studied and then covering with a thin glass circle .
A modification of this plan was to place the cover glass upon the still liquid gelatin and allow it to solidify under the cover .
A speck of the salt was then placed at the edge of the cover glass , and the growth worked its way through the thin layer of gelatin enclosed between the glasses .
Many hundreds of preparations were made in this way , using all kinds of salts , and the results obtained have been the same as in the flask experiments , viz. , that radium , barium , strontium , and lead salts are the only ones which produce any effect .
( t might be expected that calcium salt should behave in the same wav as barium and strontium , but the calcium sulphate is so much more soluble than the sulphates of the other two metals that it does not form a precipitate under the conditions of the experiments .
Very careful search was made in the case of uranium salts , but not any growth could be obtained , negative results also following the use of thorium salts , pitchblende , and uranium metal .
There is thus no connection between radio-activity and the formation of the growth .
A number of photographs were taken of the preparation made by the latter method at periods from a few minutes after contact with the gelatin to several days and in some cases weeks .
The apparatus used for this purpose was supplied by Zeiss , and for direct observation magnifying powers up to 1500 diameters could be employed .
1906 .
] Radium and certain other Salts on Gelatin .
For photography and projection magnification up to 6000 or 7000 diameters could be obtained without undue distortion .
Photographs were taken with magnifications of 400 , 1000 , and 4000 .
The first effect of the action of radium salt was to cause an evolution of gas in the form of minute bubbles , owing to the decomposition of the water ; the evolution soon ceased , but simultaneously a nebulous growth was seen to proceed from the point of contact of the salt with the gelatin .
The growth consisted of tiny particles of precipitate which increased in size rapidly up to a certain point , and then expanded much more slowly , and in many cases did not increase at all after 10 hours .
This precipitate has , undoubtedly , a sort of cellular structure , as is clearly shown in the photographs taken with the higher powers .
Figs. 4 to 8 show the progressive stages of the growth during 85 minutes , the magnification being 400 diameters .
Many " pairs " of cells can here be seen , but the grouping is purely fortuitous .
Fig. 9 represents a portion of the same preparation taken with a magnification of 1200 diameters .
Here the cellular character is clearly seen .
This same preparation was used to see whether any increase of size took place after one day .
For this purpose the slide was fixed firmly to the stage of the microscope , and the objective , 1/ 12 oil immersion , focussed upon a large cell which had a well-defined shape .
This was photographed at intervals of a day for four successive days in order to determine whether there was anything of the nature of " cell division " or growth , in the usual sense , taking place ( figs. 10 to 13 ) .
The photographs absolutely negative this idea .
Observation could not be carried on for a longer time on account of the drying of the immersion oil .
It is important to observe that there is no trace of a , even on pushing the magnifying power by projection up to 12,000 ! !
, this figure being , of course , a long way past the limit of " useful " magnifications .
A series of photographs was taken with barium salts instead of radium , with the results shown in figs. 14 to 17 .
Fig. 14 shows the nature of the growth after 15 minutes at 400 diameters , fig. 15 after 30 minutes , fig. 16 the appearance at 1200 after one hour , and fig. 17 at 4000 .
It appears that there is not much difference between the result of the radium and barium salts ; in fact , it is often impossible to say which metal has caused a particular growth .
There is a considerable variation in the effect of both radium and barium salts , owing to the varying nature of the different samples of gelatin , and to the amount of water present , etc. 384 The Action of Radium and certain other Salts on Gelatin .
Fig. 18 shows the result at 4000 diameters of the action of strontium nitrate , and fig. 19 that due to lead nitrate upon the gelatin .
If these experiments are conducted upon gelatin from which the sulphuric acid has been removed no growths are obtained .
A sample of gelatin from which the sulphuric acid had been removed was sealed up with some radium salt in September last , and at the present time no signs of growth have made their appearance , but if to a portion of the gelatin a soluble sulphate is added a growth at once appears .
It thus seems to be quite clear that the cellular growth cannot be produced by radium or barium unless a sulphate is present , and other metals , save Sr and Pb , fail to produce any result , because the^ do not form insoluble sulphates .
The cellular form of these precipitates is probably due to the circupistance that the gelatin is liquefied by the actions of the salt , and each particle of precipitate is formed about a core of gelatin , so that the layer of barium sulphate forms a kind of sac or cell which is surrounded by the solutions of the salt in the liquefied gelatin .
This cell may be permeable to the liquefied gelatin containing a salt in solution , which , passing through the cell wall , causes an expansion to take place , the limit of growth being controlled by some surface tension effect .
The conclusions which are drawn from a study of the photographs and direct examination under the microscope with high powers are that:\#151 ; 1 .
The cells form round a precipitate of an insoluble sulphate , and the energy of the growth of the cell depends upon the amount of sulphate present .
2 .
Radium has no specific action in forming cells , any effect produced being due .
to the barium associated with it , and the purer specimens of radium salts are less satisfactory as cell-formers than the impurer ones .
Probably pure radium salt would have no action except that of causing an .evolution of gas .
3 .
The cells do not divide or bud or show anything resembling \#166 ; " karyokinesis , " their growth very quickly reaches a maximum , and they do not decay or split up , save as a consequence of the drying of the gelatin .
If the cover glass is sealed down with cement , the cells have been observed to suffer no alteration in the course of four months .
4 .
Eadio-active substances , unless they contain barium , do not give rise to the formation of cells .
Rudge .
Roy .
Soc. ProcA 78 , Plate 7 .

