448 The Astronomer Royal on the [ Apr. 27 , exclusively and without any loss to warm the products , is such that an augmentation of pressure always takes place at a constant volume , or , what is the same thing , an augmentation of volume at a constant pressure .
This proposition results not from any d priori deduction , but is verified by the whole of facts known to this day .
7 .
One may ask if the change of volume , in which the gases keep the whole heat produced by their mutual actions , is regulated by a simple law , ^analogous to those that have been observed when the gaseous combinations are brought to the same-temperature ; nevertheless it does not appear to be so .
Let us compare the formation of the different hydracids by means of their gaseous elements , which gives no change of volume when the gas is reduced at 0 ' and Qm,760 . .
The formation of chlorhydric gas , H Cl , produces 23,900 calories .
; the formation of bromhydric gas , H Br , produces 13,400 calories ; the formation of iodhydric gas , HI , produces 800 calories .
The specific heat of these gases being nearly the same under the same volume , it is clear that the quantities of heat aforesaid cannot produce an augmentation of volumes identical or proportional with simple numbers .
II .
" Remarks on the Determination of a Ship 's Place at Sea .
" In a Letter to Prof. Stokes .
By G. B. Airy , LL. D. , \amp ; c. , Astro* nomer Royal , - ' V 3 Royal Observatory , Greenwich , S.E. , 1871 , April 5 .
My dear Sir , \#151 ; In the last published Number of Proceedings of the ' Royal Society* , there are remarks by Sir William Thomson on the Pr0i-.posed method for determining the locus of a ship 's place at sea , by making one observation of the sun 's ( or other body 's ) altitude , and founding , op this , computations of longitude with two assumptions of latitude ; and there are suggestions , with a specimen of tables , for solving the spherical triangles which occur in all similar nautical observations , on the principle of drawing a perpendicular arc of great circle from one angle of a spherical triangle upon the opposite side . . .
1 In regard to this principle and the tables which may be used with it , I may call attention to the employment of a similar method by Major-General Shortrede , in his f Latitude and Declination Tables , ' pp. 148 and .180 , In p. 150 , line 11 from the bottom , it will be seen that the " column " ogives the trial-value of the perpendicular arc by which the two right-angled triangles are computed .
This is not the same ( among the various elements which may be chosen ) as Sir William Thomson 's ; but it is so closely related that in some instances the tabular numbers are identically the same as Sir W. Thomson 's , though in a different order .
General Shortrede 's * ' Vol. xix .
p. 259 , .
1B71 .
] Determination of a Ship 's Place at Sea .
object was " Great Circle Sailing , " in which the trigonometrical problem is the same as in the nautical observation .
I think , however , that Sir W. Thomson deserves thanks for calling attention to the application of this method to time-determinations .
In regard to the problem of the " locus , " allow me to point out the geometrical circumstances of the case .
If , upon a celestial glohe , an arc of small circle be swept with the sun 's ( or other body 's ) place for centre , and the observed zenith-distance for radius , the ship 's zenith will be somewhere in that curve ; and if , with the pole for centre , arcs of parallels be swept with the two assumed colatitudes for radii , the intersection of these two curves with the first drawn curve will give the ship 's zenith on the two assumptions j and if within the celestial globe there be placed a small terrestrial globe ; and if these zenith-points be radially projected upon the terrestrial globe , the terrestrial places of the ship on the two assumptions will be marked .
But the practical application of this requires that the position of the terrestrial globe , or of the earth , be known in respect of rotation , \#151 ; that is , it requires that the Greenwich sidereal time , or solar time , be known ; in other words , it requires a perfect chronometer .
Now the experience of Captain Moriarty , cited by Sir W. Thomson , does not apply here .
Captain Moriarty received time-signals from the Royal Observatory through the cable every day , and he had therefore a perfect chronometer .
But other ships have no such perfect chronometer ; and though the direction of a locus , as determined above , may be sufficiently certain , yet its place upon the earth will be uncertain , by a quantity depending on the uncertainty of the chronometer .
Thus three chronometers may give the following positions for the locus-curve :\#151 ; Chron. No. 1 .
Chron. No. 2 .
Chron. No. 3 .
And the question now presents itself , which uncertainty is the greater , \#151 ; the uncertainty of latitude , which it is the real object of this problem to remedy ?
or the uncertainty of the chronometric longitude , which must be used in attempting to find the remedy ?
I do not doubt the instant reply pf any practical navigator , that the chronometric longitude is far more uncertain than the latitude ; and if it be so , the whole method falls to the ground .
, yj I fear that a publication like that which has been given to this method may do very great injury among navigators who are not accustomed to investigate the geometrical bearings of guch operations , and may lead them into serious danger . .
, I am , my dear Sir , yours very truly , .- ' 7 r " ' ' , G. B. Airy .
Professor Stokes , Secretary ofihe Jtoyal So'ciety .
- - .
Prof. P. M. Duncan on Guynia annulata .
[ May 4 , [ From a general recollection of a conversation I had with Sir W. Thomson before the presentation of his paper , I do not imagine his object to have been exactly what the Astronomer Royal here describes , but partly the saving of trouble in numerical calculation , partly the exhibition , for each separate observation of altitude at a noted chronometer time , of precisely what that observation gives , neither more nor less , which introduces at the same time certain facilities for the determination of a ship 's place by a combination of two observations .
Of course the place so determined is liable to an error east or west corresponding to the unknown error of the chronometer j and doubtless , under ordinary circumstances , this forms the principal error to which the determination of a ship 's place is liable .
This remains precisely as it did before ; and it is hard to suppose that the mere substitution of a graphical for a purely numerical process could lead a navigator to forget that he is dependent upon his chronometer , though perhaps the general tone of Sir W. Thomson 's paper might render an explicit warning desirable , such as that which Mr. Airy supplies.\#151 ; G. G. Stokes .
] May 4 , 1871 .
Sir PHILIP GREY-EGERTON , Part .
, Vice-President , in the Chair .
In conformity with the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\#151 ; William Henry Besant , M.A. William Bud , M.D. George William Callender , F.R.C.S. William Carruthers , Esq. Robert Etheridge , F.R.S.E. Frederick Guthrie , B.A. John Ilerschel , Capt. R.E. Alexander Moncrieff , Cnpt .
M.A. Richard Quain , M.D. Carl Scborlemmer , Esq. Edward Thomas , Esq. Edward Burnet Tylor , Esq. Cromwell Fleetwood Varley , C.E. Arthur Viscount Walden , P.Z.S. John Wood , F.R.C.S. The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Structure and Affinities of Guynia annulata , Dune .
, with Remarks upon the Persistence of Palaeozoic Types of Ma-dreporaria .
" By P. Martin Duncan , M.B. Lond. , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in King 's College , London .
Received March 16 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) The dredging-expedition which searched the sea-floor , in the track of the Gulf-stream of 1868 , yielded , amongst other interesting Madreporaria , a form which has been described by Count Pourtales under the name of

