370 Dr. U. Pritchard o the Structure and [ May 30 , nation of the kind as to make it a matter of much interest that a larger number of meteoric irons from various localities should be subjected to careful examination in the same direction , thus supplementing our know-ledge of the fixed constituents of these curious bodies by a study of their gaseous contents .
III .
" On the Structure and Function of the Rods of the Cochlea in * Man and other Mammals .
" By Urban Pritchard , M.D. Communicated by Prof. Lionel Beale , M.D. Received April 18 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The ear is , it is well known , one of the most complicated organs of the body , consisting of the external , middle , and internal sections , the two former being concerned in collecting and conducting sounds or vibrations , while the duty of the internal portion consists in receiving , localizing , and clearly distinguishing them .
It is simply with this last function of the organ that I purpose to deal , my aim being to describe the true construction and use of the cochlea , so far as its task of distinguishing the various sounds is concerned .
This cochlea , it must be borne in mind , consists of a spiral canal , in form and shape very similar to the inside of a snail-shell .
From the axis of this spiral , there proceeds horizontally a plate of bone , the lamina spiralis , almost dividing this canal into two ; from this plate , again , there extend two membranes , the membrane of Reissner and the lamina spiralis membranacea , as far as the walls of the canal , thus separating it into three minor canals .
iBetween the layers of the membranous spiral lamina are situated the so-called Rods of Corti .
These were first discovered and described by the Marquis de Corti ; and although since then many observers have studied the subject , yet scarcely two investigators are agreed as to their exact form .
Deiters has published the results of two investigations , in which the form of the rods is differently described ; Kolliker , Henle , and others appear to agree with Deiters 's later view , and most of our text-books have copie their drawings .
Recent writers , such as Dr. A. Bottcher , Waldeyer , \amp ; e*\#187 ; give varying drawings , some of which are nearer the true form of the ro s than that of Deiters , while others exhibit them in all kinds of extraordinary shapes .
In a general view of the rods from above , they appear similar to two rows of pianoforte-hammers , rather than like the keys of that instru ment , to which they have been likened .
In a lateral view , these two rows of rods are seen sloping towards each other , like the rafters of a gabe roof .
The rods consist of a shaft and two enlarged extremities , but t1 two rows differ considerably in form ; the inner rods are attached by to 1872 .
] Function of the Rods of the Cochlea .
lower extremities to the membrana basilaris at its junction with the lower lip of the limbus , and just external to the spot where the nerve-filaments emerge ; they are directed outwards and upwards , with a slight undulation to meet the outer rods .
The lower extremity is enlarged and rounded , gradually tapering to the shaft , which is cylindrical ; the upper extremity is somewhat cuboid in form , but the outer surface is deeply concave , and the upper lip of the concavity is prolonged into a process .
The outer rods are attached to the membrana basilaris by a broad base , which also gradually tapers to a cylindrical shaft .
Their upper extremity is less cuboid in form , and presents a convex internal surface , which articulates with the corresponding concavity in the inner rods just mentioned ; from the outer and upper part there extends outwards a slender process .
One of the most important features with regard to these rods is their relative length .
Most authors state that there is very little difference in the length of the two rods ; in this , however , they are much mistaken ; for not only do the two sets of rods differ in this respect , but the length of each varies according to its position on the cochlea .
Thus , at the base , the outer rods are as nearly as possible equal in length to the inner ; but proceeding upwards , both rows increase in length with great regularity , although not in the same ratio , the outer increasing with much greater rapidity , so that near the apex they are twice the length of the inner .
It was generally supposed , a .priori , that these rods were graduated so as to distinguish the most minute variation of tone , but no one until now has been able to demonstrate this .
The rods , therefore , vary in length from about to 0f an inch .
The number of rods in each row is not the same , there being about three of the inner to two of the outer ; and , according to calculation , there are about 5200 inner rods and 3500 outer in the whole cochlea .
Most authors , with the exception of Deiters , describe nuclei situated in various parts of these rods , principally in the lower extremities ; but although seen from above this appears to be the case , on closer observation these so-called nuclei of the rods are found to be nothing more than the nuclei of cells surrounding ; them .
in arrangement of the nerves.\#151 ; The cochlear nerve-fibres from the portio mollis pass up the modiolus , and turn off at the lamina spiralis .
Just at this junction we find in the bone itself a ganglion , from which the fibres proceed outward .
Immediately before the end of the lower lip of e llmbus , the nerve-filaments pierce its upper surface , and appear close to the base of the inner row of rods ; concerning the termination of these nerve-filaments little is really known .
t'Oiti and most other authors considered this system of rods to be the essential portion of the cochlea ; they supposed that the rods received the '.nations conducted to them , and being set in motion , so affected the *prves as to cause the brain to appreciate the various sounds .
Later eruian writers have attributed the appreciation of the various vibrations Lieut.-Col. A. Strange on a new Theodolite to certain delicate cells which are attached to the under surface of the membrana reticularis .
From this circumstance alone it appears very \#166 ; evident that these investigators had not suspected , much less discovered , the fact that the rods are most exquisitely graduated , for otherwise they could surely never have doubted that so beautiful and suitable an appa .
ratus could have any other ostensible purpose than that of appreciating the various sounds .
I consider , indeed , that the cochlea represents a musical instrument , similar in nature to a harp or musical box , the strings of the one and the teeth of the other being represented by the rods of Corti .
The spiral bony lamina is simply a sounding-board ; around the rods are placed the various nerve-cells and nerve-fibres , and from these cells the impressions are conveyed by the fibres to the brain itself .
It is possible , therefore , to trace very completely the course of sounds or vibrations from a musical instrument or any other source to the brain , through the medium of the ear .
First the vibrations are caught and collected by the auricle , and transmitted through the external meatus to the drum of the ear , next across the middle to the internal ear .
Here the sound is appreciated , merely as a sound , by the vestibule ; the direction is discovered by means of the semicircular canals ; but to distinguish the note of the sound , it must pass on to the cochlea .
The vibration therefore passes through the fluid of the cochlea and strikes the lamina spiralis , which intensifies and transmits the vibration to the system of rods .
There is doubtless a rod not only for each tone or semitone , but even for much more minute subdivisions of the same ; so that every sound causes its own particular rod to vibrate , and this rod vibrating , causes the nerve-cells in connexion with it to send a nerve-current to the brain .
In conclusion , I feel it my duty to mention that I am greatly indebted to Professor Rutherford , of King 's College , for suggesting the investigations which led to these results , as also for much valuable advice while prosecuting them in his laboratory at King 's College .
Addition to Lieut.-Col. A. Strange 's paper " On a new Great Theodolite to be used on the Great Trigonometrical Survey o India , with a short Note on the performance of a Zenith-Sector employed on the same work .
" ( See p. 317 .
) ( Received June 15 , 1872 .
) Since my paper with the above title was read , it has occurred to \#174 ; that some particulars as to the weight of the instrument might niter those engaged practically in Geodesical work .
The following are the weig of the main parts as separated for carriage :\#151 ;

