284 Or .
F. Rodwell and H. M. Elder on [ Jan. 30 , | this way the vertical currents in the solar atmosphere , both ascending and descending , intense absorption in sun-spots , their association with the faculse , and the apparently continuous spectrum of the corona and its structure , find an easy solution .
We are yet as far as ever from a demonstration of the cause of the variation in the temperature of the sun ; but the excess of so-called calcium with minimum sun-spots , and excess of so-called hydroger .
with maximum sun-spots follow naturally from the hypothesis , and afford indications that the temperature of the hottest region in the sun closely approximates to that of the reversing layer in stars of the type of Sirius and a Lyrae .
If it be conceded that the existence of these lines in the chromosphere indicates the existence of basic molecules in the sun , it follows that as these lines are also seen generally in the spectra of two different metals in the electric arc , we must be dealing with the bases in the arc also .
January 30 , 1879 .
W. SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Effect of Heat on the Di-iodide of Mercury , Hgla.lf By Gr .
F. Bod well , Science Master , and H. M. Elder , a Pupil , in Marlborough College .
Communicated by Professor Tyndall , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Received January 9 , 1879 .
In continuation of the experiments on the effects of heat on the chloride , bromide , and iodide of silver , which one of us has previously had the honour of communicating to the Society , * it was thought to ; be advisable to search in some of the other metallic iodides for molecular anomalies similar to those presented by the iodide of silver|[ Among these no substance appeared more likely to possess such anomalies than the di-iodide of mercury .
This substance , as is wel|| known , is dimorphous . .
In the amorphous condition it presents the appearance of a brilliant scarlet powder , .
which , if heated , fuses at 200 ' C. , and volatilises just above the fusing point to a vapour more * " Proe .
Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxy , p. 280 .
879.1 the Effect of Heat on the Di-iodide of Mercury .
285 ihan twice as dense as that of mercury .
The vapour condenses to hombic prismatic crystals , which frequently become scarlet while ooling , hut which , if they still remain yellow when cold , instantly lecome scarlet if rubbed or otherwise mechanically agitated .
Accord-ng to Warington this change is due to the transformation of the hombic prisms into acute square-based octohedrons with truncated ummits .
If the yellow prismatic crystals are placed under the nicroscope , and are then touched , the change to the red variety may ie observed to go on through the mass of contiguous crystals , accom-.jjanied by a slight movement , but the external form of the crystals .emains unchanged , consequently pseudomorphous crystals are pro-luced , and the larger rhombic prisms have been resolved into a mass jf minute octohedrons .
Frankenheim asserts that by the application of a very gentle heat , both the red and the yellow crystals may be sublimed together , and he believes that the vapour of the yellow crystals passes off at a lower temperature than that of the red .
Warington found that the precipitate produced by iodide of potassium in chloride of mercury , appeared under the microscope to be composed of rhombic laminae , which gradually altered their form bj the truncation of the edges , until they disappeared , while square-based octohedrons were produced in their place .
The iodide is clearly capable of existing in two crystalline forms belonging to different systems , and of passing from the one form to the other , either by diminution of temperature or by simple mechanical means .
Such a substance would seem to be likely to possess peculiarities in its modes of expansion under the influence of heat .
In order to test this the iodide was submitted to the same experimental treatment as that employed in the case of the iodide of silver , and previously described in detail .
Homogeneous rods of the iodide of mercury were heated in paraffine in the expansion apparatus described and figured in the previous paper , and the extent of expansion due to a given range of temperature was noted .
The apparatus was standardised by means of a rod of fine homogeneous silver .
The same micrometer , reading to 80ooo^1 an inch , was employed , and the mode of conducting the experiments was precisely the same as in the case of the iodide of silver .
Two slight changes were made in the apparatus however :\#151 ; the one consisted in the substitution of a massive stone base for the wooden one hitherto used ; and the other the replacement of the glass rods moving in stuffing boxes , by curved equal-armed levers moving over the rim of the trough , by which means the leakage of hot paraffine at the stuffing boxes was prevented .
Bars of the iodide of mercury were cast in clean glass tubes , and here at the outset the experimental difficulties commenced .
For not only was it difficult to obtain a homogeneous rod , on account of the 286 G. F. Rodwell and H. M. Elder on [ Jan. 30 , volatilisation of the iodide at a temperature slightly exceeding it ; melting point , but the rod when cold was found to be so brittle tha : it usually broke*in the attempt to remove the glass envelope from th\lt ; outside .
Eventually good rods were procured by slowly melting tht iodide in thin glass tubes and annealing in hot paraffine .
When th\lt ; whole was cold the glass was cut on the outside , and carefully broken off the ends of the rod , which were sawed plane by a fine steel saw and then furnished with metal caps , and the rod was placed between the levers of the expansion apparatus .
After heating the bar once 01 twice in paraffine to a temperature approaching its melting point , longitudinal rifts appeared in the glass envelope , which was then easily removed , leaving a clean homogeneous rod of the iodide .
On heating a mass of the crimson amorphous iodide , it turns yellow at 126 ' C. , and just before the melting point is attained the yellow changes to a deep red-brown .
The liquid resulting from the fusioD bas the appearance of liquid iodide of silver , that is to say , it has the I exact colour of bromine .
The liquid when cooled solidifies to a red- S brown solid which speedily becomes yellow , and at 126 ' C. it changes 1 to the crimson octohedral variety .
Distinct cracking sounds , due to I inter-molecular movements , were heard during the continuance of the I change .
Heat is absorbed when the red iodide changes to yellow , and I is given out when the yellow iodide changes to the red .
A bar of the iodide was placed in the expansion apparatus , melted H paraffine was poured upon it , and when the index had become quite f I steady , a gentle heat was applied to the paraffine .
The index showed 11 a regular and slow expansion until a temperature of 126 ' C. was I reached , when the bar began to change from the octohedral to the !
I prismatic condition , and without further rise of temperature rapid I expansion took place .
The temperature was kept constant until the tiI change was complete , and was then slowly raised .
A regular expan- :i1 sion now took place under a higher coefficient than before the mole- ) j eular change , and this continued until the melting point was attained.\gt ; | The results were concordant .
The expansion in passing from the solid to the liquid condition was s I determined by weighing mercury in a tube , and afterwards filling it I to the same height with fused iodide .
The specific gravity of each e substance being known , and the weight of equal volumes , the expan- i sion could obviously be readily determined .
The coefficient of cubical expansion for 1 ' C. from 0 ' C. to the $ point of change\#151 ; 126 ' C.\#151 ; was found to be:\#151 ; .0000344706 .
At 126 ' .
C. , during the change from the red octohedral to the yellow / \lt ; prismatic condition , the body increased in bulk to the extent of:\#151 ; .00720407 .
879 .
] the Effect of Heat on the Di-iodide of Mercury .
287 I The coefficient of cubical expansion for 1 ' 0 .
from 126 ' C. , after ie change to the melting point 200 ' 0 .
, was .0001002958 .
1 Thus , if we suppose a molten mass of the iodide of mercury to be ooling down from 200 ' 0 .
to 0 ' C. , the following would be the olumes under the conditions indicated:\#151 ; Volume at 200 ' C. of the liquid mass ... ... =1 '1191147 " " " solid mass ... ... ... ... ... = 1 *0190453 " 126 ' C. ( yellow prismatic condition ) = 1 '0115378 , , , , ( red octohedral condition ) = 1 *0043337 " 0 ' C ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
= 1 *0000000 The changes are shown at one view in the accompanying curve table , in which the expansion of mercury is given for comparison .
According to SchifE the specific gravity of the octohedral iodide is 5'91 ; while Karsten makes it 6*2009 , and Boullay 6*320 .
288 Prof. B. Stewart and Morisabro Hiraoka .
[ Jan. 3( : Two distinct specimens with , which we worked gave respectively\#151 ; j ( 1 ) .
6-3004 ( 2 ) .
6-2941 The specific gravity of the fused iodide was found by the methoi 1 before described to be Thus the specific gravities corresponding to the five marked con ditions shown in the curve table are as follows:\#151 ; Specific gravity at 0 ' C ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
=6 '297 " " 126 ' C. ( octohedral condition ) = 6 " 276 " " , , ( prismatic condition ) = 6 " 225 " " 200 ' 0 .
solid ... ... ... ... ... = 6179 " " " liquid ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
=5'286 II .
" A Comparison of the Variations of the Diurnal Range of Magnetic Declination as recorded at the Observatories of 1 Kew and Trevandrum .
" By Balfour Stewart , F.R.S. , 1 Professor of Natural Philosophy in Owens College , Manchester , and Morisabro Hiraoka .
Received January 10 , 1879 .
* * In a previous paper by one of the authors ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxvi , p. 102 ) a table is given ( Table II ) exhibiting monthly means of the Kew diurnal declination-range , corresponding to forty-eight points in each year , or four for each month , that is to say , approximately one every week ; and , in another paper ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol , xxvii , p. 81 ) , another similar table exhibits monthly means of the Trevandrum diurnal declination-range for weekly points .
In the present paper these two tables are compared together .
It became obvious to the writers , when engaged in making this comparison , that the turning points in the curve , which represented the variations of the Kew declination-range , were on the whole in point of time before the corresponding points in the Trevandrum curve .
While this result might have been rendered evident by making the numbers of the tables above-mentioned at once into curves , yet it was found to become more apparent to the eye and freer from inequalities by adopting a certain amount of equalization .
Accordingly , the Kew and Trevandrum tables were transformed into others , with the same time-interval between their numbers as in

