60 Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
[ Jan. 31 , form a stage in the growth of the gland .
In the mature state of the organ in this animal I consider that the vesicles , as usually supposed , consist of cavities more or less spherical in shape , which are not in communication with one another .
The points mentioned in this note , together with others connected with the subject , will be fully discussed in a future paper .
II .
" On Stratified Discharges .
V. Discharge from a Condenser of Large Capacity .
" By William Spottiswoode , M.A. , LL. D. , Treas .
and V.P.R.S. Received November 22 , 1877 . .
' The principal object of the following communication is to describe an instrumental arrangement which has proved very convenient for the production of steady striae .
The first attempt which was made nearly two years ago ( February , 1876 ) , consisted in charging a Leyden battery of nine large jars by means of an induction coil , and discharging it gradually through a vacuum tube .
This was effected by connecting One terminal of the tube with the outside of the battery , and presenting the other terminal , made pointed , to a knob connected with the inside , at suitable distances .
The following effects were then observed : ( 1 .
) When the interval between the terminal and the knob was considerably greater than striking distance , the appearance in the tube was cloudy and apparently unstratified , or showed only faint indications of stratification .
It was , in fact , very similar to that produced by attaching one terminal of the tube to one of an induction coil , and carrying the other to the earth .
( 2 .
) When the interval was within striking distance , the usual jar-discharge without stratification or dark space took place .
( 3 .
) When the interval was slightly greater than striking distance , but not so great as in the first case , a bright stratified discharge was observed .
The proper motion due to a decline in tension was shown by a revolving mirror , and by a careful but rapid alteration in the distance during discharge , the motion could be arrested or even reversed .
The duration of the whole , although long compared with a single flash from an ordinary coil , did not exceed half a second .
This experiment gave reason to hope that if a condenser of sufficient capacity were constructed , the discharge might be prolonged , and even varied , so as to allow an actual study of its various phases to be made .
The next attempt was made during last summer with some condensing plates , constructed for cable purposes , and kindly lent to me by Messrs. Latimer Clark , Muirhead , and Co. The results were in every way calculated to encourage further steps .
At the suggestion of Mr. De la Rue , and with the assistance of his 1878 .
] Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
61 battery for the purpose of testing the instrument , the same firm constructed for me condensers of which the following are the particulars .
Each condenser is contained in a box , and has a capacity of 13'8 microfarads , subdivided into ten sections , each section containing forty sheets of tinfoil , 18 in .
X13 in .
, insulated from each other by eight sheets of parafined tissue paper .
The superficial area of foil in each box is 1,300 square feet , and that of parafined paper 14,166 square feet .
It was found that these condensers could easily be charged with a 4-inch induction coil , worked by two Grove 's , or even bi-chromate , cells .
A much smaller coil would certainly suffice if the coil were made with a thick secondary , since to ^-inch sparks are all that are required .
In order to charge the condenser , one terminal of the coil was carried to outside of the condenser , and the other to the other with an intervening air spark .
The object of the air spark was twofold : first to ensure that the tension of the electricity was sufficient to give the required charge to the condenser , and , secondly , to prevent the latter from discharging itself back through the secondary of the coil .
After some trials , it was found that the air spark might , with great advantage in steadiness of action , be replaced by a vacuum-tube which offered sufficient resistance : such , for instance , may generally be found among those prepared for spectrum analysis , although these differ very widely in resistance .
Lastly , the condenser was furnished with a safety discharger , consisting of a brass sphere and a point adjustable in distance from one another , so that the condenser might discharge itself at a suitable tension ; i.e. , before the tension rose high enough to break down the insulation of the plates .
The discharge through the vacuum tubes on which experiments were being made was effected either by leading the two sides of the condenser directly to the terminals of the tube ; or more often by leading one direct , and the other through the intervention of a resistance coil , such as was described in the Proceedings of the Royal Society for 1875 , pp. 461\#151 ; 2 .
By altering the length of the resisting column as the tension in the condenser declined , the charge could be delivered through the tube at any required rate* .
By this arrangement a steady stratified discharge can be maintained for one , two , or more minutes , according to the nature and pressure of the gas contained in the tube .
In one case , with a nitrogen tube of 30 inches in length and 2 in diameter , a special fixed phase was maintained for'upwards of five minutes with one of the boxes above mentioned .
Speaking in general terms , the same connexion between resistance in the circuit and the flow of the striae as had previously been noticed with the induction coil and rapid contact-breaker ( Proceedings of the Royal Society for 1875 , pp. 458\#151 ; 9 ) was observed with this method ; but the phenomena were exhibited with greater distinctness , and could be examined more at leisure .
62 Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Dischargee .
[ Jan. 31 , In particular , with the nitrogen tube above mentioned , and other similar tubes , the direction of the flow reversed itself as the charge in the condenser became more exhausted .
This was apparently due rather to a diminution in strength of current , or quantity of electricity passing through the tube , than to fall in tension , inasmuch as any particular phase could be maintained by gradually diminishing the resistance in the circuit as the tension declined .
The penultimate phase was a for-ward flow from the positive terminal , the ultimate a fixed condition of striae .
When sufficient resistance was interposed in the circuit , these striae showed a faint indication of fissure into pairs of laminae , and even actually broke into pairs by forward jerks .
Very shortly after this the column became blurred , and the discharge then finally ceased .
It should be further mentioned that by a suitable increase or diminution of resistance in the circuit the flow could be reversed again and again at pleasure .
It has frequently been noticed that in some tubes the column of striae shows a tendency to mobility , while in others it is comparatively fixed ; in one case it appears to be in a position of unstable , in the other in a condition of stable , equilibrium .
The former may generally be exemplified in hydrogen and nitrogen vacua , the latter in carbonic acid , hydrochloric acid , and other vacua .
Experiments which I have recently made with another , in some respects yet more powerful , method , tend to bring out the connexion between these two classes , but I reserve an account of them for a future occasion .
Pursuing this subject further , I repeated the same experiments with an 18-inch , instead of a 4-inch coil , using as a battery either six large bichromate of potash cells , or , with still better effect , a large Gramme 's machine , worked by steam .
The results were in every way satisfactory .
Tubes in which with the 4-inch coil the stria ) were at best only imperfectly developed , or in which it was impossible to maintain the discharge for any appreciable time , were illuminated successfully in both respects ; and in many cases the supply of electricity from the coil to the condenser could be so regulated as to maintain special phases for an indefinite time .
The change of tint ' from pale salmon colour to violet-gray in ( impure ?
) carbonic acid vacua , due to increased tension , as observed by Mr. De la Rue with his great battery , were here displayed with great brilliancy .
The advantage of the 18-inch over the 4-inch coil consisted not so much in the tension as in the quantity of electricity given off to the condenser at each secondary discharge ; and it seems probable that a coil specially constructed with very thick primary and secondary , and capable of giving sparks from \#163 ; to \inch in length , would be the most suitable instrument for the purpose .
It would , of course , be necessary that the condenser should have sufficient capacity to act as a fly-wheel during the intermittence of the supply from the coil .

