10 .
" The Anatomy and Physiology of the Liver .
" By Francis Kiernan , Esq. , M.R.C.S. Communicated byj .
H.Green , Esq. , F.R.S. After giving a short account of the descriptions of Malpighi and other writers respecting the minute structure of the liver , the author proceeds to state the results of his own investigations on this subject .
The hepatic veins , together with the lobules which surround them , resemble in their arrangement thebranches and leaves of a tree ; the substance of the lobules being disposed around the minute branches of the veins like the parenchyma of a leaf around its fibres .
The hepatic veins may be divided into two classes ; namely , those contained in the lobules , and those contained in canals formed by the lobules .
The first class is composed of interlobular branches , one of which occupies the centre of each lobule , and receives the blood from aplexus formed in the lobule by the portal vein ; and the second class of hepatic veins is composed of all those vessels contained in canals formed by the lobules , and including numerous small branches , as well as the large trunks terminating in the inferior cava .
The external surface of every lobule is covered by an expansion of Glisson 's capsule , by which it is connected to , as well as separated from , the contiguous lobules , and in which branches of the hepatic duct , portal veins and hepatic artery ramify .
The ultimate branches of the hepatic artery terminate in the branches of the portal vein , where the blood they respectively contain is mixed together , and from which mixed blood the bile is secreted by the lobules , and conveyed away by the hepatic ducts which accompany the portal veins in their principal ramifications .
The remaining blood is returned to the heart by the hepatic veins , the beginnings of which occupy the centre of each lobule , and when collected into trunks pour their contents into the inferior cava .
Hence the blood which has circulated through the liver , and has thereby lost its arterial character , is , in common with that which is returning from the other abdominal viscera , poured into the vena porta ?
, and contributes its share in furnishing materials for the biliary secretion .
The paper is accompanied by numerous drawings of preparations made by the author , of the minute structure of the liver , in which the different sets of vessels and ducts were injected in various ways .

