The following papers were read , viz. ยง 1 .
" On the general and minute Structure of the Spleen in Man and other Animals .
" By Wiliiam Julian Evans , M.D. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. After adverting briefly to the discordant opinions of Malpighi , Ruysch , and others regarding the structure of the spleen , the author proceeds to detail the results of the investigations on this subject , in which he has been for many years engaged .
According to his ana ?
lysis , the following are the component parts of this organ : ?
first , a reticulated fibro-elastic tissue ; secondly , a pulpy parenchyma , containing the Malpighian glands and the splenic corpusclcs ; thirdly , distinct cellular bodies ; fourthly , the usual apparatus of arteries , veins , lymphatics and nerves ; fifthly , certain fluids ; and lastly , the membranes or tunics by which it is invested .
He describes the cells of the spleen as being formed of a lining membrane , continued from that of the splenic vein , and strengthened by filaments of the fibro-elastic tissue .
The splenic vein communicates with these cells , at first by round foramina , then by extensive slits resembling laccrations ; and it ultimately loses itself entirely in the cells .
The cells themselves communicate frecly with one another , and also with the veins of the parenchyma ; and may therefore be considered as in some measure continuations of the veins .
This structure constitutes a multilocular reservoir of great extensibility , and possessing great elastic contractility ; properties , however , which exist in a much less degree in the human spleen than in that of her ?
bivorous animals ; in which animals the cellated structure itself is much more conspicuous , and prcdominates over the parenchymatous portion .
As the splenic artery has no immediate communication with the cells , these latter may be filled much more readily by in ?
jection from the vein than from the artery .
In the ordinary state of the circulation , the blood , which has passed into the cells from the veins , is pressed into the branches of the splenic veins by a force derived from the elasticity of the fibro-elastic tissue which surrounds the cavities of the cells , thus constituting a vis~a-tergo , which contributes to propel the blood onwards in its circulation through the liver .
Should there arise , however , any obstructing cause which the resilience of the spleen is unable to overcomc , a regurgitation must take place , lcading to a congestion both in the mesentcric and splenic veins .
The spleen may thus serve as a receptacle for the blood of the abdominal circulation during any temporary check to its free passage into the vena cava ; a purpose which is more fully answered in herbivorous animals in whom the abdominal circulation is more extensive , and the spleen is of larger dimensions and greater elas ?
ticity .
The splenic corpuscles are thickly scattered throughout the cellu ?
lar parenchyma of this organ ; and from each corpuscle there arises a minute lymphatic vessel ; the interlacing of adjacent lymphatics giving rise to a fine and extensive net-work .
The trunks of these vessels enter into the Malpighian glands , and again ramifying , form a lymphatic plexus in the interior of these bodies .
The fluid con ?
tents of these vessels , which had been before pellucid , is now found to contain white organic globules , similar in every respect to those observed in the fluid of lymphatic glands in other parts of the body .
The author considers the secretion of this fluid , which appears to be identical with the contents of the lymphatic glands , as being the peculiar function of the splenic parenchyma .
A few illustrative drawings and diagrams accompany this paper .

