119 1882 .
] On an Arrangement of the Electric Arc , Sfc .
But although these experiments seem to lead to this conclusion , more extended researches with other gases of the same nature , using the same precautions , will have to be made , before the real form of the curve can be ascertained .
This investigation has been carried out in the Laboratory of the \#166 ; Royal Institution .
x. " On an Arrangement of the Electric Arc for the Study of the Radiation of Vapours , together with Preliminary Results .
" By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received June 8 , 1882 .
In previous papers* we have described various devices for facilitating the study of the reversal of the lines of metallic vapour .
The first series of observations were made by examining the spectrum of the interior of iron or porcelain tubes filled with vapour and heated to the highest temperature of a coke furnace , the subsequent series being eye or photographic records of the radiation of the electric arc surrounded by metallic vapour in the middle of blocks or tubes of lime or magnesia .
By enclosing the arc in a crucible of lime or magnesia we have found its steadiness very greatly increased , and the mass of metallic vapour which can be maintained at a temperature approaching to that of the arc much enlarged , but it cannot be said that that temperature is at all under control , and the walls of the crucible are almost always cooler than the contents .
By the arrangement we have now to describe we are able to make observations through a long range of temperature , as the temperature rises and as it falls , and so to trace the influence of temperature in many cases in which the extent of that influence was before doubtful .
The temperature attainable is doubtless far below that of the arc , but still it is quite sufficient to maintain iron and aluminium in the state of vapour , and show the reversal of the lines of these elements with singular sharpness .
The temperature of the interior is sufficiently high to transform the diamond into coke , even in a current of hydrogen , and the result may be taken as proving that the temperature is above that of the oxyhydrogen flame .
The apparatus employed is thus constructed : A rod of carbon , a in the figure , 15 millims. in diameter , perforated down its axis with a cylindrical hole 4 millims. in diameter , is passed through a hole in a lime * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " " On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Yapours , " vols .
28 , 29 , 32 .
Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ June 15 , block d , and is connected by means of a copper clip with the positive electrode of a Siemens dynamo-electric machine ; another carbon rod b , nnperforated , is passed into the lime block through a second hole at right angles to the first , so that the end of the rod b meets the rod a in the middle of the block of lime .
The rod b is connected with the negative electrode of the dynamo machine , and after contact is made between the two carbons is raised a little so that the arc discharge continues between the two carbon rods within the block of lime or magnesia .
In this way the outside of the rod or tube , a , becomes intensely heated , the heat is retained by the jacket of lime , and the interior of the tube gradually rises in the central part to a very high temperature .
By stopping the arc it can be made to pass through the same stages of temperature in the inverse order .
Observations are made by looking down the perforation .
When the light issuing from the-tube is projected by a lens on to the slit of a spectroscope , the heated walls of the tube give at top and bottom a continuous spectrum , against which various metallic lines are seen reversed , while in the central part , when the tube is open at the farther end , the spectrum is discontinuous , and the metallic lines seen reversed against the walls at top and bottom , appear as bright lines .
By passing a small rod of carbon c into the perforation from the farther end , a luminous background can be obtained all across the field , and then , as the walls of the tube are hotter than the metallic vapours between them and the eye , the metallic lines are only seen reversed .
A very slight alteration in the position of the carbon rod makes the lines disappear , or reappear , or show reversal , and as the core is adjusted by eye observation before photographs are taken , all the conditions of the experiments are thoroughly known and are IJ332 .
] On an Arrangement of the Electric , Sfc .
121 !
nnder easy control .
We have taken photographs of the violet and I lower part of the ultra-violet spectrum given by the tube at successive intervals while the temperature was rising , and noted the following results .
When commercial carbons were used the first lines to be \#171 ; even as the temperature rose were the potassium lines , wave-length 4044-6 , next the two aluminium lines between H and K became conspicuous , then the manganese triplet about wave-length 4034 , and the .calcium line , wave-length 4226 , then the calcium lines near M and an iron line , probably M , between them , and then gradually a multitude of lines which seem to be all the conspicuous iron lines between O and h. At this stage , when the small rod c is used to give a background , the bright continuous spectrum is crossed by a multitude of sharp dark lines , vividly recalling the general appearance of the solar spectrum .
In the higher region the continuous spectrum extends beyond the solar spectrum , and the magnesium line , wave-length 2852 , is a diffuse dark band , while all the strong iron lines about T , and the aluminium pair near S , are seen as dark lines .
The behaviour of the calcium lines H and K is peculiar .
These lines are often absent altogether , when the line wave-length 4226 and the two near M are well seen , and when the two aluminium lines between them and many of the iron lines are sharply reversed .
Even the introduction of a small quantity of metallic calcium or calcium .chloride into the tube did not bring them out reversed .
They were only seen as bright lines , not very strong , when the small rod c was removed .
In some of the photographs H is visible as a bright line without K. We have formerly observed that K. shows reversal in the electric arc apectrum taken in a lime crucible on the addition of aluminium , when H remains bright , and such a condition as that shown by the hollow carbon tube where H is present without K , might legitimately have been predicted .
The lithium lines at 4603 and 4131 are often bright when many other lines in the neighbourhood are reversed , and must , therefore , be regarded as relatively difficult of reversal .
As a rule the lines less refrangible than 4226 are balanced as to their emissive and absorptive power , and , therefore , disappear , while the more refrangible are reversed .
The cyanogen group at 3883 remain bright when the iron lines on either side are reversed ; they often , however , disappear on the continuous spectrum .
Many lines about P and Q of the solar spectrum are reversed .
- The cyanogen band above K is generally to be found in the photographs of the spectrum when only air is in the tube .
It is then very faint , and is the only cyanogen group visible .
If ammonia is passed into the tube the fine set above K , the N group , and , although less plainly marked , the set at 4218 , appear .
In one plate the three lines at 4380 and the group of seven at 4600 appear along with the blue hydrocarbon set .
It is well 122 On the Ultra-violet Spectra of the Elements .
[ June I5J known that ammonia , reacts on carbon at a white heat , producing* cyanide of ammonium and hydrogen , so that the genesis of the cyanogen spectrum under the present conditions is a crucial test of the1 validity of our former observations on this subject , which are , however in marked disagreement with the results obtained by Mr. Lockyer , in his review of the same field of investigation .
Both the indium lines 4101 and 4509 are persistently reversed together with several lead lines .
Tin gives flutings in highly refrangible portions of the spectrum , and silver gives a fine fluted-looking spectrum in the blue .
Chloride of calcium gives a striking set of six or seven bands between L and M , which may be seen both bright and reversed .
When the small rod c is removed , it is easy at any moment to sweep out the vapours in the tube by blowing through it ; it is equally easy to pass in reducing or other gases .
Ammonia introduced seems to facilitate the appearance of reversed lines .
On passing this gas through a tube containing magnesia , the set of lines just below which we have always found to be associated with the presence of magnesium and hydrogen , and is most probably due to some compound , instantly appear .
The above is a brief abstract of the few observations we have been able to make as a preliminary to a more thorough research , and we feel warranted in thinking that the method promises to solve some intricate spectroscopic problems .
When we can command several electric arcs to heat a considerable length of carbon tube , and are enabled to examine the radiation of a powerful arc passing through vapours in the tube , valuable results may be anticipated .
XI .
" On the Ultra-violet Spectra of the Elements .
Part I. Iron .
" By Gr .
D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received June 8 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) By means of photographs taken with a Rutherford grating of 17,296 lines to the inch , the authors have determined the wave-lengths of ninety-one of the most prominent lines in the spark spectrum of iron between wave-lengths 2948 , the termination of Cornu 's map of the solar spectrum , and 2327 , and also of fourteen of the strongest lines in the spark spectrum of copper beyond that up to the wavelength 2135 .
Using these lines as lines of reference they have , from photographs taken with calcite prisms , deduced the wave-lengths of 584 more lines in the arc and spark spectra of iron within those

