]\gt ; Ionic Velocities in Air at Different Temperatures .
By P. PmLLIPS , B.A. , M.Sc .
, 1851 Exhibition Scholar of the University of Birmingham .
( Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 7 , \mdash ; Read June 21 , 1906 .
) The object of this paper is to find at different temperatures the velocity in an electric field of the ions produced by Rontgen rays in air at atmospheric pressure .
The different values obtained will tell us whether the masses of the ions depend in any way upon the temperature .
Langevin , 1902 , described a new method which he had devised to determine the velocities of ions in an electric field .
The principle of the method is as follows:\mdash ; any instant that potential can be reversed .
arthed oonnected tuadrants octrometer aaised tgiven ppose tonisation iniformAt acertain tfter tischarge hassed iates distant dapart .
sent through a Rontgen bulb which ionises the air between bulb , the potential on is reversed .
If we represent by a curve the quantity received by when is altered we shall get a curve of the form given in fig. 2 .
By varying the time and measuriug the quantity received by Fro .
2 .
* Langevin , ' Recherches sir les gaz ionises , ' Paris , 1902 .
168 Mr. P. Phillips .
Ionic Velocities in [ June 7 , we can experimentally realise this curve and so obtain the points of discontinuous curvature , , and R. The time between and is and between and is , where and are the velocities under unit field of the positive and negative ionH respectively , and X is the field .
Knowing , and , we calculate and If the ionisation be not uniform but be localised close to one of the plates , the form of the curve will be altered .
Suppose the ionisation is very intense close to A and that before reversal is positive , then the form of the curve will be that given in fig. 3 , while , if is negative before the reversal , the form will be that given in fig. 4 .
FIG. 3 .
We see that in the first case the point of discontinuous curvature is very marked and in the second case is very clearly marked .
Using localised ionisation in this way we can find the points with greater precision .
In this investigation we have neglected the effect caused by diffusion and recombination of the ions and by the distortion of the field due to unequal distribution of the ions .
Langevin , in the thesis already referred to , has shown that diffusion and recombination only round off the corners on the curve and do not displace them ; consequently the experimental curve will inform us whether these are serious .
Langevin also shows that the distortion of the field is negligible if the total charge received by the plate A is less than a quarter of the charge induced on A when the potential on is raised from zero to the potential used iu the experiment .
In my experiments this fraction never rose above one-twentieth .
The general arrangement of the apparatus , by means of which this method was experimentally realised , is shown in fig. 5 , and is essentially the same as that described by M. Langevin .
1906 .
] Air at Different Temperatures .
FIG. 5 .
and are two weights which can be allo to fall simultaneously and break the contacts I and I ' .
The breaking of the contact at I ' causes a single discharge to pass through the bulb X , while the breaking at I reverses the potential on the electrode B. I can be fixed at any point on a vertical scale , and thus the contact may be broken at any required time before or after it is broken in I ' .
As in M. Langevin 's experiments , a standard pair of electrodes , , is used , and the ratio of the charge received by A to that received by is the quantity which is plotted against the time in order to obtain the experimental curves .
For a fuller account of the apparatus , vide Langevin 's thesis .
When the ionisation used is intense close to one of the plates , as in and 4 , a null method may be used .
are so adjusted that when we travel the horizontal parts of the curve , receives an equal and opposite charge to A. A and are connected together and to the electrometer , and so , while we on the horizontal part of the curve , we shall get no deflection , but as soon as we get beyond , or , as the case may be , we shall get a deflection .
This is a very convenient and quick method of obtaining the position of the points , and it is used in most of the experiments described in this paper .
The electrometer has a phosphor-bronze suspension , gives 496 mm. deflection fcr 1 volt between the two pairs of quadrants , and has a capacity of about cm .
It was found convenient to use diflerent forms of vessel at different Mr. P. Phillips .
Ionic Velocities in temperatures , and so the description of the vessel in which A and are enclosed will be reserved for the account of the experiments at the various ; temperatures .
The experiment has been carried out at the following temperatures absolute : , and , i.e. , at temperatures ranging from C. to C. Between C. and C. the velocities of bobh the positive and negative ions are very nearly directly proportional to the absolute temperaGure , but at C. the two velocities seem to be equal and much smaller than would be given by this linear law .
Determination of the Velocities at the Temperature of Boiling Air.\mdash ; In order to reduce the size of the ionisation vessel as much as possible the plane parallel electrodes were replaced by concentric cylindrical ones .
This slightly alters the ulation .
Let the diameter of the outer cylinder be , of the inner Then at a point between and distant from the centre the electric intensity is equal to , where is the difference of potential between and .
The velocity of the positive ions at this point will be therefore where is the time which a positive ion would take to travel from to i.e. , the time between the two discontinuities and Thus i.e. , Similarly , for the negative ion , T2 being the time between the two discontinuities and Q. In this experiment the inside diameter of the outer cylinder is cm .
, and the outside diameter of the inner cylinder is cm .
3 is therefore equal to Therefore Several different forms of ionisation vessel were tried before one was Air Different Temperatures .
found which worked satisfactorily when immersed in liquid air .
In several forms the strain on the ebonite insulation which was caused by the unequal contraction of ebonite and brass was sufficient to break the dielectric , while in another form this unequal contraction made the vessel leak and so liquid air made its entrance .
The form of vessel shown in longitudinal section in fig. 6 , however , worked quite satisfactorily .
is a cylindrical brass vessel which contains the two brass electrodes A and B. FIG. 6 .
is very little smaller than the vessel and is kept in position and insulated from it by means of ebonite rings at the top and bottom which are shown in section at It is connected with the point ( fig. 5 ) by means of the wire which is led out through ebonite plugs in the side tube S. Through the centre of bottom of the vessel is soldered the lower guard tube , while the upper guard tube is screwed to the centre of the aluminium lid Al .
Mr. P. Phillips .
Ionic Velocities in [ June 7 , The electrode A is supported between these two guard rings by means of ebonite plugs which are shown in section shaded , and it is connected to one of the mercury cups ( fig. 5 ) by means of a wire led out through the tube T. The ebonite plugs are turned as shown in order to increase the insulating surface and so improve the insulation .
P6 is a platinum resistance which takes up very little space and which serves to measure the temperature of the air between the electrodes .
The leads to this are led out through ebonite plugs in another side tube .
The aluminium lid Al fits into a depression which is turned in the lower flange and is squeezed by screws between the two flanges , F. The ebonite plugs are very close fitting so that the vessel is very nearly air-tight and a drying tube , which is not shown , communicates with the interior of the vessel by means of another side tube .
The whole vessel and side tubes can be contained in a beaker 8 cm .
diameter so that it may easily be immersed in liquid air up to the position indicated by the dotted line .
The Bontgen bulb is vertically above the vessel so that rays enter through the aluminium lid Al .
The standard vessel is of much simpler design , being merely a brass vessel with an aluminium window through which rays enter between two plane electrodes , one of which is connected to one end of the 160-volt battery , while the other is connected to one of the mercury cups in fig. 5 .
single reading is taken as follows:\mdash ; First I is placed at the required height on the scale and the contact is made .
and the electrometer are all earthed .
The electro-magnet circuit is closed and the rrhts W and are placed in position .
A and are insulated .
The contact I ' is made and then the electro-magnet circuit is broken , allowing the weights to fall and break the contacts I and I ' .
The contact I is re-made and the quantities received by A and are measured successively on the electrometer .
The ratio of these two quantities is plotted against the scale reading of I. A typical series at C. is given on p. 173 .
Plotting these quantities against each other we obtain Curve No. 1 , from which we see that the points , and occur at the scale readings 30 cm .
, cm .
, and cm .
, respectively .
1906 .
] Air Different Potential of cells volts .
When the contact breaker I is placed at 30 cm .
on the scale the distance between it and the electro-magnet is cm .
The height of the falling weight itself is cm .
, therefore the actual height of fall of the weight before breaking the contact cm .
Height of fall to cm .
cm .
27 .
The time of fall to cm .
sec. sec. Mr. P. Phillips .
Ionic Velocities in [ June 7 , The time of fall to cm .
sec. , , sec. sec. Therefore The time from to sec. and , , , , to cm . .
per volt/ cm .
, The results at ordinary temperatures show that the apparatus is working satisfactorily .
The , is a typical set of readings taken when the apparatus is immersed in liquid air up to the position indicated by the dotted lines in fig. 6 .
Potential of cells volts .
Resistance of Pt thermometer steady at ohm .
These numbers are plotted in Curve No. 2 , which only shows two points of discontinuous curvature , the one occurring at the scale-reading 30 cm .
, the other at cm .
This would lead us to the conclusion that the velocities of the positive and negative ions are equal to one another .
Time to fall to 30 cm .
sec. , 5 .
' sec. Thus Time between discontinuities sec. , i.e. , and cm . .
per volt/ cm .
To calibrate the platinum thermometer its resistance was found when Air at Different Temperatures . .
of 1 it was immersed in freshly prepared liquid air water at C. , water at C. , and water at C. The calibration curve is given in Curve No. 3 , which shows that when the resistance is ohm the temperature is C. Mr. P. Phillips .
lonic Velocities in [ June The disappearance of the one point of discontinuous curvature might be due to some defect in the apparatus ; such a defect , for instance , as would arise from the difference of coefficient of expansion of ebonite and brass .
This might conceivably allow the central electrode to get a little out of the centre , and this would very soon round off any corners in the curve .
After taking several precautions to prevent such an occurrence , however , the other point does not reappear , and if we examine the curve the sharpness of the other discontinuities seems to show that there is no such defect .
Five series of readings were obtained with the vessel immersed in liquid air , and the curves obtained were exactly similar .
The velocities found were :\mdash ; i.e. , at C. the velocities of the positive and negative ions are each equal to cm . .
per volt/ cm .
Deterrnination of the Vdocities at C.\mdash ; In this experiment the ionisation vessel consists of a double-walled metal jacket , inside which the electrodes are contained , and the space between the walls of which is filled with solid A diagram of the vessel is given in fig. 7 .
In order to keep the space between the double walls filled with solid liquid is allowed to escape from a cylinder through a small hole .
It enters the jacket through the tube , which is screwed into the cylinder , and the gas is led out through the tubes and allowed to escape outside the window .
06 .
] Air at Different Temperatures .
Unfortunately a steady stream of cannot be maintained in way , for the small hole gets choked with the solid and so one cannot merely leave the stream flowing , but by keeping an eye on the temperature and blowing more through when it shows signs of falling , it is quite easily maintained between the limits and C. The vessel was surrounded with three layers of thick felt in order to protect it from being warmed up too rapidly by external radiation .
The electrode A is of thick brass , and is insulated from the guard by meaus of three rods of , whose ends are soldered to and respectively .
The guard ring is supported by three brass pillars , which are soldered to it and rest on the base of the vessel .
The electrode is of aluminium and is screwed to the brass ring R. It is supported by three quartz rods , which are soldered into holes in and R. Three spacing blocks , cm .
thick , vere placed between and while the qualtz rods were being soldered , and thus the electrodes were fixed accurately parallel .
The vire connecting with the point in fig. 5 is led out through an ebonite plug in the side tube S. The wire connecting A to a mercury cup is threaded through a narrow brass tube .
This is soldered into the quartz tube which in its turn is soldered into a wider brass tube .
This brass tube VOL. LXXVIII.\mdash ; A. Mr. P. Phillips .
Ionic Velocities in [ June 7 , slides tightly into the side tube , making a fairly air-tight joint .
The wire is pulled taut , and is then soldered to the outer end of The leads to the platinum thermometer Pt are led in through an ebonite plug in the side tube C. The side tube serves a double purpose .
A drying tube is attached to it , and through it a wire which is soldered to the guard is led out and soldered into good contact with the vebsel .
The lid of the yessel Al is of thin aluminium and is made fairly air-tight by being squeezed between a brass ring and the top of the double-walled jacket .
A lead shield Pb only allows the rays to impinge centrally on the electrodes .
Since the rays impinge directly on the brass electrode , the secondary radiation makes the ionisation intense close to , so that in this case the null method is applied .
The method of taking a reading is exactly the same as described for the temperature , C. , except that the two electrodes A and are connected ether all the time instead of being connected separately to the electrometer .
A typical series of readings is given below : Potential of cells volts .
Electrode is negative before reversal .
These numbers are plotted in Curve No. 4 which shows that the point oi discontinuity is at cm .
1906 .
] Air at Different The resistance of the platinum thermometer never varied beyond the limits and ohms .
Exactly similar series of readings were conducted to find the points and Q. The point is at cm .
scale reading , and , Now the height of fall to cm .
cm .
, , , , Thus Time of fall to sec. , , sec. , , sec. Thus Time between and sec. , and , , PandB Now distance between electrodes cm .
, and potential on electrodes volt .
Thus .
per volt/ cm .
Inspecting the Pt thermometer calibration curve , we see that the temperature is between and C. The mean temperature is thus C. Owing to the large amolmt of which was required to keep the temperature constant , only three series of could be taken before the cylinder of liquid was exhausted .
The results of these three series FIG. 8 .
ling the horizontal parts of the curves until a deflection was obtained .
A number of determinations were made at the ordinary temperature of the room and the es- of and were obtained:\mdash ; Probably the most accurate determinations so far are those of Langevin and Zeleny . .
results 1906 .
] Air at Temperatures .
We may , therefore , conclude that the apparatus is working quite satisfactorily .
The series of experiments with the jacket heated to C. by means of methylated spirits the following results:\mdash ; Experim From these experiments we have : Mean Mr. P. Phillips .
Ionic Velocities in [ June 7 , With the boiler filled with water , i.e. , with the vessel maintained at 10 C. , the following results were obtained:\mdash ; With the boiler filled with water , i.e. , with the vessel maintained at 10 C. , the following results were obtained:\mdash ; With the boiler filled with water , i.e. , with the vessel maintained at 10 C. , the following results were obtained:\mdash ; Thus we have at 10 C. :\mdash ; Mean 1 06 .
] Air Difleren Temperatures .
With the boiler filled with amyl alcohol , , with the vessel at a temperature of 12 C. , the following results were obtained:\mdash ; iment.expts PThus we have at C. :\mdash ; 1.91 1.97 1.97 1.92 1.99 1.91 1.97 1.97 1.92 1.99 1.91 1.97 1.97 1.92 1.99 1.91 1.97 1.97 1.92 1.99 1.91 1.97 1.97 1.92 1.99 Mean 195 2.41 2.43 240 cm . .
per The velocities of the ions at , 11 and 13 were also found by means of another ionisation vessel .
It is shown in section in fig. 9 .
The vessel itself , , is a brass casting of which the inside dimensions are about inches .
A and are two brass electrodes and is a gual.d ring .
A and are fixed in position by being to brass rods which are soldered into quartz tubes , while these in their turn are soldered into the cups , which are turned in the sides of the vessel .
While the solder is being poured into the cups the two electrodes are fixed parallel and cm .
apart by means of three spacing blocks .
The two tubes and fit on to the outside of the cups , and are soldered in position .
Through them the connections to and A are made by means 184 Mr. P. Phillips .
Ionic Velocities in [ June 7 of the two brass rods , which screw into little blocks on the ends of : Al is the aluminium lid to the vessel and is made tight by being squeezed between bhe two flanges , F. are two brass diaphragms which only allow a flat pencil of rays about 3 mm. thick to enter the vessel , and which are so placed that this pencil just grazes the surface of B. There is a continuation of the vessel above the aluminium lid so that the whole may be immersed in an oil bath up to about the position indicated by the dotted lines .
The oil bath can be maintained at any constant temperature between about and 15 by means of a thermostat .
The mode of using this vessel was exactly the same as in the last experiments .
A null method was used and the height of the movable contact breaker I varied , to find the point at which one begins to get a permanent deflection .
With this apparatus the point was very sharply marked .
906 .
] Air at Different Ternperatures .
18Thus we have : Thus we have : Thus we have : Thus we have : 1 when the vessel was at the temperaTemperature .
The following results were obtained with the oil bath maintained at C.:\mdash ; Mr. P. Phillips .
Ionic Velocities in Thus we have at C. :\mdash ; With the oil bath maintained at C. the following results were obtained:\mdash ; Time .
Thus we have : 1.85 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 Mean 185 230 cm . .
per volt/ cm .
at 11 C. 1906 .
] Air at emperattl r With the oil bath maintained at C. the following results were obtained : \mdash ; 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 2.52 2.44 2.49 Thus we have : Mean 2495 cm . .
per volt cm .
at C. Collecting all the results at the different temperatures we These numbers are plotted in Curve No. 5 .
bure .
AbsoluCe .
We see that except for the case of the velocities at .
the points lie very close to straight lines through the origin , i.e. , and are very nearly proportional to the absolute temperature .
This is a strangely simple result when we consider what a complication of circumstances affects the velocities .
Interpr.etation of the Results.\mdash ; As is well known , by making use of the kinet , ic theory of gases , we can obtain an expression for the drift velocity of an ion in an electric field in the form where X is the field , is the mass of the ion , is the mean free path of the ion , and is the mean molecular velocity of the ion .
This formula depends upon the fundamental assumptions\mdash ; 1 .
That.statically the previous history of the ion is wiped out at each collision .
2 .
That the drift velocity is small compared with the mean molecular velocity .
This condition is easily fulfilled .
It is easy to see that the first assumption is correct if the ions consist of one molecule each , but it is probably not quite accurate when they consist of more than one .
It is difficult , however , to make any other workable assumption and , if we make it , it is fairly simple to find in terms of ( the corresponding quantities for the gas molecules ) , and , the number of molecules which go to make up one ion .
For let be the number of molecules per cubic centimetre , and N2 , , , , ions 1906 .
] Air at Different Let be the radius of a molecule , and of an ion distance between centres of a molecule and an ion at collision , Then , treating the mixture of ions and molecules as a mixture of two different gases , the mean free path , , of an ion is given by Now is negligible compared with ; thus Thus The factor in the brackets is too complex for one to see at aglance how it varies with .
The following are the values of its inverse when , 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5:\mdash ; o These are plotted in Curve No. 6 .
Now the value of for air at 76 cm .
pressure and C. is to 770 , when we use the values for the size of the nlolecules given in Jeans ' * Jeans , ' Din .
Theory of Gases , ' p. 234 .
Mr. P. Phillips .
Ionic Velocities in Din .
Theory of Gases , ' p. 340 , the number of molecules per cubic centimetre given by tfJe electrical methods of J. J. Thomson and H. A. Wilson , and the 3 electrolytic values of .
These , I think , are the most reliable values we can get .
The velocity of the positive ion given by Curve 5 is about cm .
per , i.e. , 399 cm . .
per absolute unit of field , at C. This is times too small , therefore diffusion ossign tsize twice ohrice tositive ionsists o of molecules .
molecule , while Dr. Richardson , from considerations based on the variation of the ionic velocities with pressure , came to the conclusion that a positive ion air at atmospheric pressure and at ordinary temperatures consists of about 3 molecules .
By making the same calculation as the above from the experimental results at different temperatures , we get the variation with temperature of the number of molecules in the ion .
The calculated values of are given in the following table : \mdash ; These numbers are plotted in Curve No. 7 .
Of course , the first assumption made in deducing the nula will show us that we cannot accurately deduce the number of molecules in an ion in this way .
Probably all the numbers to be multiplied by a factor which is not very far different from unity , but at least this curve will us how the size of the ion vttries with the teml ) erature .
ComptPs Rendus , ' vol. 111 , p. 35 , 1905 .
'Phil .
Mag July , 1905 . .
at Different Temperatures .
TemperaCure .
AbsoluCe .
The fact tlJat it varies continuously and not in jumps would seem to show that there is a continual exchange going on between ions and rred molecules ; at some collisions several molecules remain attached to the ion , while at others one or more of them is knocked off , and so a dynamical equilibrium is set up .
As the temperature of the gas rises , the collisions are more violent , and statistically fewer molecules are attached to an ion ; this gradual change would go on until the collisions become so vioIent that at times corpuscles are shot off without even a single molecule attached to them .
When this happens the velocity of the ion would very rapidly increase with the temperature , and so in flames we might expect those rapidly moving ions which are unloaded corpuscles for an appreciable fraction of their life .
In conclusion , wish to express my indebtedness to Professor J. J. Thomson for suggesting this subject for investigation and for the kindly interest he has shown while the experiments have been in progress .
I also wish to thank Dr. Richardson for some helpful suggestions .

