1877 .
] Ow the Normal Paraffins .
325 Also that the origin of all strata in exhausted tubes is at the positive pole .
At certain pressures there is only one stratum , then , as the pressure is diminished , two , three , and so on , each being added on from the positive pole .
We succeed easily in obtaining photographs of the phenomena , as the strata can generally be made to remain stationary for some time .
Several of the photographs are in the hands of the engraver to be copied , and we hope to be able to show the history of several tubes in a communication we are now drawing up .
June 21 , 1877 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. John Duke Lord Coleridge and Dr. Thomas Richard Fraser were admitted into the Society .
The President announced that Section V. Chapter III .
of the Statutes , under which a Fellow whose paper had been printed in the Philosophical Transactions could claim to pay , in lieu of the annual contribution , a Life Composition of \lt ; \#163 ; 40 instead of \#163 ; 60 , had been repealed by the Council .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Normal Paraffins " Part II.\#151 ; By C. S. Schorlemmer , F.R.S. , Professor of Organic Chemistry in Owens College , Manchester .
Received June 5 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) In the first paper of this subject it was shown that by the action of chlorine on a normal paraffin a primary chloride and a secondary one of the general formula CwHg+1 j CHC1 are formed simultaneously* .
It appeared of interest also to examine the action of bromine on the paraffins .
The present paper contains the first results of this research .
I. Normal Hexane.\#151 ; When bromine vapour is passed into the vapour of the boiling hydrocarbon , in the daylight , its colour disappears quickly and substitution products are formed which are partly decomposed by distillation .
The portion distilling without decomposition consists of a * Phil. Trans , vol. 162 , part i. p. 111 .
326 Mr. B. Lewis on the Lymphatic [ June 21 hexyl bromide , which was converted into the acetate and the alcohol .
The latter yielded on oxidation acetic acid and normal butyric , showing that it is methylbutyl carbinol .
The boiling-points of the different compounds are as follows : Formula .
Boiling-point .
Bromide . . .
\lt ; -4^9 1 . .
CH3J j-CHBr 143'-145 ' Acetate . . .
c4h9 ] [ .
CH .
0C2H30 146'-150 ' CH3 J Alcohol ... c4iV CTV | .
CH .
OH 136'-140 ' II .
Normal Heptane yielded the following products:\#151 ; .
Bromide . . .
\lt ; W1 ... CHJ [ CHBr 165'-167 ' Acetate ... CsHn 1 - .
CH3j [ ch.oc2h3o 169'-171 ' Alcohol . . .
C , HU ] ... CH3 J l CH .
OH 155'-157 ' The heptyl alcohol is methylpentyl carbinol , because on oxidation it was resolved into acetic acid and normal pentylic acid .
As result of \lt ; this investigation it appears that by the action of bromine on normal paraffins only secondary bromides of the general formula CHI n ( Iff1 I C-HBr are f'rme(ij but not a trace of a primary bromide , or that the methyl groups which are present in these hydrocarbons , and which are readily attacked by chlorine , are not touched by bromine at all .
In addition to the secondary bromides other products are formed which , on distillation , decompose either completely or are resolved into hydrobromic acid and non-saturated hydrocarbons , which are probably olefines .
By continuing this research I hope to ascertain the nature of these non-volatile products .
II .
" The Relationships of the Nerve-cells of the Cortex to the Lymphatic System of the Brain .
" By Bevan Lewis , F.R.M.S. , Assistant Medical Officer at the West Riding Asylum .
Communicated by Dr. Terrier , F.R.S. Received June 8 , 1877 .
[ Plates 1 \amp ; 2 .
] The great importance attached to an accurate appreciation of the relationships existing between the nerve-cells and the lymphatic and vascular systems in the brain cortex will be recognized by all who are engaged upon investigations in cerebral pathology , and cannot be well

