On the Constitution and Properties of Ozone .
By THOMAS ANDREWS , M.D. , F.R.S. , M.R.I.A. , Professor of Chemistry in Queen 's College , Belfast .
Received May 16 , -Read June 21 , 1855 .
AMONG the many interesting bodies which the researches of modern chemists have brought to light , few are more remarkable than the substance to which the name of ozone has been given , whether we consider its many singular and anomalous properties , or its intimate relations with the most important and widely-diffused element in nature .
For the first recognition of ozone and description of its properties , we are indebted to the sagacity of SCHONBEIN , to whom the entire merit of the discovery unquestionably belongs .
His earlier experiments were , however , chiefly directed to the elucidation of its properties , and of the conditions under which it is formed ; but not being accompanied by quantitative determinations , they did not throw any clear light on its actual constitution .
The subject has also attracted of late years the attention of several very distinguished physical and chemical inquirers , among whom I may particularly mention MARIGNAC , DE LA RIVE , BERZELIUS , WILLIAMSON , FREMY and BECQUEREL , and BAUMERT .
SCH8NBEIN has shown that a body having a peculiar and highly characteristic odour and very similar properties is formed under the three following conditions:1 .
When electrical sparks are passed through atmospheric air .
2 .
When pure water , or water holding certain acids or salts in solution , is decomposed by the voltaic current , the new substance appearing , along with the oxygen gas , at the positive pole .
3 .
When certain bodies , and particularly phospl-orus , are slowly oxidized at common temperatures in atmospheric air .
Two distinct questions here arise for consideration .
Is the same substance produced under these different conditions , or has SCHONBEIN included under the name of ozone substances having different compositions , although agreeing in some of their properties ?
And next , what is the composition of ozone , or , if there be more ozones than one , how are they respectively constituted ?
The experiments of WILLIAMSON * indicated the production of water , when ozone obtained by electrolysis was decomposed by being passed over heated copper , and BAUMERTf obtained similar results when he passed a stream of electrolytic oxygen through a tube containing anhydrous phosphoric acid , which was heated at one point to redness .
These experiments were not , however , adapted to yield quantitative results , but they led to the general conclusion that this variety of ozone is an oxide of hydrogen containing more oxygen than water .
But from another and very important experiment , to which I shall have occasion hereafter very fully to refer , BAUMERT has concluded that it is a teroxide of hydrogen , HO , .
On the other hand , the experiments of DE LA RIVE and of FREMY and BECQUERELt have shown , that pure and dry oxygen gas may be converted by the electrical spark into ozone .
I am not aware of any experiments on ozone obtained by the action of phosphorus on atmospheric air , which throw any distinct light on its constitution .
MARIGNAC passed a stream of this ozonized air through a solution of iodide of potassium , till the whole of the iodide was converted into iodate of potassa , and concluded that ozone produced in this way must be either oxygen in a peculiar state , or a peroxide of hydrogen .
According to the results , therefore , of the most recent investigations , it would appear , That the substances comprehended under the name of ozone are not identical ; That the ozone obtained by the action of the electrical spark on oxygen gas is oxygen itself in an altered or allotropic state ; That the ozone obtained by the electrolytic decomposition of water is an oxide of hydrogen , having the formula HO , ; and That the ozone obtained by the action of phosphorus on oxygen is either oxygen itself , or a compound of oxygen and hydrogen ? .
The subject of ozone has at intervals engaged my attention during the last four or five years , and I was actually occupied with a series of experiments on the production of ozone by the electrical spark , when the appearance of FREMY and BECQUEREL'S able researches induced me for the moment to lay aside the inquiry .
The publication of BAUMERT'S memoir led me subsequently to resume it , as his results were not in accordance with those which I had previously arrived at .
But the method proposed by that physicist to determine whether ozone is an oxide of hydrogen , or oxygen in an allotropic condition , appeared to be so well suited to the purpose , that on resuming the inquiry , I considered it necessary in the first instance carefully to repeat his experiments .
The results which I at first obtained were so far in accordance with those of BAUMERT , that they showed that the increase in weight of the apparatus was always more than the weight of the ozone , as deduced from its chemical action , but the relative proportion of these quantities was not in accordance with his results ; nor , on repeating my own experiments , did they agree with one another .
It was evident , therefore , that some disturbing cause existed which complicated the reaction , and , on further investigation , I not only found that such a cause did really exist , but succeeded in ascertaining its nature and the means of avoiding it .
The experiments , on being now repeated , gave results very consistent with one another , and altogether at variance with the view that hydrogen is a constituent of ozone .
The apparatus which I employed was arranged as follows:-A is a vessel ( Plate I. fig. 1 ) of about two litres capacity , containing a mixture of one measure of pure and strong sulphuric acid , and seven measures of distilled water .
The cylinder B , which is filled with a sitlilar solution , is closed below with a diaphragm of bladder , so as to prevent effectually any mixture of the gases evolved at the two poles .
A platina wire , pp , traverses and is fused into a short glass tube , fitted by grinding into the tubulated neck b : this wire terminates below in a bunch of fine platina wires , which form the positive pole of a voltaic arrangement .
The negative pole is a platina plate , p ' , immersed in the liquid of the outer vessel .
The vessel A was placed in a larger vessel containing cold water , to which ice was in some experiments added .
This vessel has been omitted in the drawing for the sake of distinctness .
CC'C " is a continuous tube , united by fusion with the larger neck of B , and filled from C ' to C " with fragments of pumice , moistened with pure sulphuric acid .
The length of the desiccating column was nearly one metre .
D is a LIEBIG'S apparatus , to the ends of which glass tubes were fused , which had previously been fitted by grinding , the one into the neck c of CC'C ' " , the other into a tube , which was in like manner fused to a second LIEBIG'S apparatus , E. The connexions c and e were , , therefore , formed by glass surfaces carefully ground .
In my earlier experiments , these connexions were made by means of small and dry corks , which , on the whole , are more convenient than ground-glass joints , and are quite unobjectionable , as , when the surface is small and the cork dry , the amount of ozone destroyed by contact with the cork is wholly inappreciable .
Caoutchouc connectors of any kind are altogether inadmissible ; they are attacked with such energy by ozone , even when diluted with 1000 times its volumie of other gases , that the tube becomes perforated in the course of a few minutes .
The vessel D contained a solution of iodide of potassium , acidulated with a little hydrochloric acid , and the vessel E , concentrated sulphuric acid .
The U-tube F , filled with pumice moistened with sulphuric acid , prevented any moisture firoml passing backwards into E. The oxygen evolved was collected in the graduated glass vessel G , inverted over water .
The volume of the 3 oxygen gas was detetrmined only for the purpose of ascertaining its relation to the ozone produced .
The mixture of oxygen and ozone , having been perfectly desiccated in its passage through the long tube CC'C " , enters the vessel D , where the ozone is decomposed , iodine being set friee and caustic potassa formed , which latter , combining with the free hydrochloric acid , forms chloride of potassium .
If a neutral solution of iodide of potassium is employed , the reaction is more complicated ; for , while the greater part of the iodine is set free as before , and dissolves in the excess of iodide of potassium , iodate of potassa and caustic potassa are at the same time formed .
Whether the solution be taken in an acid or .
neutral state , the final result is in this respect always the same , that the active oxygen enters into a chemical combination in the vessel D , and increases the weight of the liquid contained in that vessel .
The increase in weight of the vessels D and E will give the entire weight of the ozone , whether that body be allotropic oxygen , or an oxide of hydrogen .
On the former supposition , the decomposition of the iodide of potassium will result in the substitution of oxygen for iodine , both remaining in D , while the sulphuric acid in E will retain the moisture which would otherwise be swept away by the curlrent of dry gas ; on the latter , ozone will become resolved into water and oxygen , both of which will be retained in the vessels D and E. Now by determining the amount of free iodine in the iodide of potassium solution at the end of the experiment , the amount of active oxygen by which it has been displaced may be easily calculated ; and on comparing this with the increase in weight of the vessels D and E , it will at once be seen whether ozone be a peroxide of hydrogen yielding water in its decomposition .
Two experiments of this kind were performed by BAUMERT ; in the first , the increase in weight of the apparatus amnounted to 0O0133 grm. , and the weight of the oxygen , as calculated from the iodine set free , to 0'0081 grm. ; in the second , the same quantities were respectively 0'0149 grm. and 0'00989 grm. The iodide of potassium was employed in the state of a neutral solution , and the iodate of potassa was subsequently decomposed by the addition of a little hydrochloric acid .
It was from these results that BAUMERT inferred that the ozone which accompanies oxygen obtained by the electrolysis of water , is an oxide of hydrogen having the formula HO , ; and this conclusion , deduced from experiments which were devised with great skill and executed with care , has , in Germany at least , received very general assent .
Having , as already mentioned , found , on a repetition of these experiments , that a different expression resulted for the composition of ozone from every new tlial , I instituted a diligent seatrch into all the circumstances of the experiment , and at last succeeded in referring the irregularities to the presence of a small , but appreciable quantity of carbonic acid , which , unless very great precautions be taken , is always present in electrolytic oxygen .
When baryta water was substituted for the solution of iodide of potassium in D , a precipitate of carbonate of baryta appeared in the course of a few minutes .
With caustic potassa in the same vessel , the increase in weight , for the same volume of oxygen gas , was considerably greater than with the solution of iodide of potassium , and at the end of the experiment it was found that carbonate of potassa had been formed .
Now as a small quantity of friee potassa is always produced during the action of ozone on a neutral solution of iodide of potassium , it appeared not improbable that this would seize upon a portion of the carbonic acid just referlred to , and thus the augmentation in the weight of the apparatus would depend upon two distinct causes , the ozone reaction , and the absorption of carbonic acid .
To prevent the occurrence of the latter , it was only necessary to acidulate the solution of iodide of potassium , so as to prevent the formation of free potassa , or to boil for some time the liquid subjected to electrolysis .
The acidulation of the solution alone was found to be sufficient to prevent the carbonic acid from being absorbed , for when this precaution was attended to , the results were the same , whether the electrolyte was boiled immediately before the commencement of the experiment or not .
With this modification , the irregularities previously observed in different trials disappeared , and the simple and inteiresting result was obtained , that the increase in weight of the apparatus was exactly equal to the amount of oxygen deduced by calculation frorl the iodine set free .
I will now describe the chief precautions which I adopted to avoid , as far as possible , all sources of error in the following experiments , the delicacy of which will at once be apparent , if we consider that not more than 40 milligrainmes of ozone are contained , under the most favourable circumstances , in 10 litres of electrolytic oxygen ; and that it was necessary to have the arrangements so perfect , that this large quantity of gas ( supposed to be free from ozone ) should traverse the apparatus without producing any appreciable change i the eunited weight of the vessels D and E. The solution of iodide of potassium employed in all the experiments had the same composition , although the quantity of ozone obtained in some cases was three times greater than in others .
It consisted of 2 grins .
of iodide of potassium dissolved in 22o grms. of a weak solution of hydrochloric acid , containing 2 per cent. of pure acid .
As it is difficult to procure iodide of potassium entirely free from iodate of potassa , I always prepared , at the colnmencement of each experiment , two similar solutions , of which one was introduced into D , and the other preserved in a ground stoppered vial , till the experiment was finished .
The amount of free iodine in both was determined at the same time , and the difference taken to represent the exact quantity of iodine due to the ozone reaction .
The correction for the iodate of potassa in the original solution , when reduced , rarely represented more than 0-001 grm. oxygen , but quantities of this magnitude must not be neglected in these experiments .
Previous to weighing the vessels D and E , one litre of atmospheric air , deprived of carbonic acid and carefully desiccated , was passed through the apparatus .
The object of this precaution was to bring every part of the apparatus into the same state 5 at the beginning of the experiment , in which it would be at the end .
The same volurne of dry air was passed througih the apparatus at the conclusion of each experi meant .
It is rarely necessary in chemical investigations to apply a correction to the direct indications of the balance for changes in the temperature and priessure of the atmosphere , during the interval between two successive weighings .
By preserving the apartment at a pretty uniform temperature , the corrections for thermometric changes may be confined within very narrow limits , but the movements of the barometer are not under our control ; and when , as in these experiments , a period of two and sometimes of three days elapsed between the first and second weighings , it occasionally happened that the change in the atmospheric pressure was considerable , and an appreciable error ( amounting in some instances to nearly 0'002 grm. ) would have occurred , if no correction had been applied* .
To ascertain how far the action of the apparatus might be relied on , one or two preliminary experiments were made , which gave very satisfactory results .
The vessel D , containing pure water , E , sulphuric acid , and another LIEBIG'S condenser , also containing sulphuric acid , having been interposed between E and F , 3-5 litres of oxygen gas not containing ozone , followed by 1 litre of atmospiheric ail , were passed through the apparatus .
The time occupied in the passage of the gas was about five hours .
The vessel D lost 0031 ] grrm .
, while E gained 0'0315 grm. , the third vessel not sustaining any appreciable change of weight .
If , therefore , D and E had been weighed together , the change of weight would have been only 0'0004 grm. In another experiment , in which a solution of strong caustic potassa was placed in D , the loss of D was 0-0175 grm. , and the gain of E 0'0172 grm. , the difference being less than one-third of a milligramme .
Other experiments of the same kind , with different solutions in D , gave similar results .
It is evident , therefore , that at the rate at which the gas traversed the apparatus , the whole of the moisture carried off from the liquid in D was retained by the sulphuric acid in E. To determine whether a notable quantity of iodine would be carried over by the current of the gas from D to E , a solution of iodide of potassiutnm containing a large quantity of free iodine was introduced into D , and a solution of pure iodide of potassium into E. After passing 4 litres of air through the apparatus , E was found to contain 0'0015 grm. iodine .
This is equivalent to one-tenth of a milligramme of oxygen , and , from the large excess of iodine in the first solution , must be a greater quantity than could have been carried over in any of the subsequent experiments , although in some of them larger volumes of gas were passed through the apparatus .
The free iodine was determined according to the very delicate method first , I believe , proposed by BUNSEN .
A dilute solution of sulphurous acid was prepared , and its strength determined , immediately before analysing the liquid in D , by ascertaining how many measures of it were required to destroy a known weight of free iodine in a solution of iodide of potassium .
A corresponding experiment was made with the solution in D , from which the quantity of free iodine in it was deduced by a very simple calculation .
I. 102 litres of electrolytic oxygen containing ozone were passed through the apparatus at the rate of about three-quarters of a litre per hour .
At the first weighing , the barometer was 29'85 in .
and the thermometer , 5 ?
'9 C. ; at the second weighing , the barometer was 29'98 in .
and the thermometer , 5 ?
'3 .
The value of V ( see preceding note ) was 47 cub. cent. The gain in weight of the double apparatus D and E was 0-0375 grm. , which gives , when corrected for atmospheric changes , for the true gain , 0'0379 grm. The free iodine in the solution contained in D , was neutralized by 112'7 measures of a dilute solution of sulphurous acid .
The other solution of iodide of potassium , which had been prepared at the same time as the first , and to which the same amount of acid had been added , required 0*8 measure of the same solution of sulphurous acid for neutralization .
Hence the iodine eliminated by the action of the ozone was equivalent to 111'9 measures .
Next , 0'5341 grm. pure iodine was added , together with 2 grms. of iodide of potassium , to a few drops of water , and when both were dissolved , the solution was diluted till it occupied exactly 100 cub. cent. From the mean of two experiments which closely agreed with one another , it appeared that 100 measures of the solution of sulphturous acid neutralized 95*96 cub. cent. of this solution , and hence 1 measuie of the former corresponded to 0-00512 grm. iodine .
From these data it follows , by an easy calculation , that the iodine disengaged by the ozone amounted to 0609 grm. , and the equivalent of oxygen to 0'0386 grm. II .
2-72 litres of electrolytic oxygen were passed through the apparatus at the same rate as before .
At first weighing , barometer 29'60 in .
, thermometer 5 ?
'8C .
; at second weighing , barometer 29'60in .
, thermometer 6 ?
'0 C. Gain of weight of D and E 00107 grin .
, corrected , 0'0107 grm. The free iodine in D , after deducting the iodine due to the small quantity of iodate 7 of potassa in the original solution , was neutralized by 30*23 measures of a solution of sulphurous acid , of which , as ascertained by direct experiment made at the time , 1 measure neutralized 0'00521 grmn .
free iodine .
Hence the oxygen due to the displacement of iodine was 0'0100 grm. III .
2'86 litres of the same gas as in the preceding experiments were passed through the apparatus .
At first weighing , barometer 30'06 in .
, thermometer 6 ?
06 C. ; at second weighing , barometer 30*20 in .
, thermometer 6 ?
'1 C. Gain of weight of D and E 0'0152 grni .
, corrected , 0'0154 grm. The free iodine in D , corrected as before , was neutralized by 41'52 measures of a solution of sulphurous acid , of which 1 measure neutralized 0*00525 grim .
iodine ; hence the weight of oxygen , as deduced from the weight of iodine set free , was 0'0138 grm. IV .
6'45 litres of electrolytic oxygen were passed through the apparatus .
At first weighing , barometer 29'96 in .
, thermometer 6 ?
` 8 C. ; at second weighing , barometer 29'29 in .
, thermometer 7 ?
08 C. Gain of weight of D and E 0'0303 grm. , corrected , 0'0288 grm. The free iodine in D was neutralized by 1004 measures of a solution of sulphurous acid , of which 1 measure neutralized 0'00441 grm. iodine ; hence the weight of oxygen deduced in this way was 0*0281 grin .
V. 6'8 litres of electrolytic oxygen passed .
At first weighing , barometer 30'53 in .
, thermometer 9 ?
08 C. ; at second weighing , barometer 30'44 in .
, thermometer 10 ?
'4 C. Gain of weight of D and E 0'0254 , corrected , 0'0251 grm. The free iodine in D neutralized 107'9 measures of a solution of sulphurous acid , of which I measure was equivalent to 0'00358 grin .
iodine ; hence the weight of oxygen deduced from the iodine set free was 0'0273 grm. Collecting these results and adding them together , so as to obtain the mean of the whole , we have Ozone deduced from the increase Ozone deduced from in weight of the apparatus .
the iodine liberated .
I. 0'0379 grm. 0'0386 grin .
II .
0'0107 grm. 0'0100 grm. III .
0'0154 grm. 0'0138 grm. IV .
0'0288 grin .
0'0281 grim .
V. 0'0251 grm. 0'0273 grm. 0O1179 grm. 0 1178 gtrm .
The agreement is complete , and proves unequivocally that water is not a product of the decomposition of ozone , which therefore does not contain hydrogen as a constituent .
If its composition were HO3 , the apparatus would have increased 01841 grm. in weight , instead of 0'1179 grin .
The amount of ozone formed in these experiments was tolerably uniform .
For 1 litre of oxygen the following weights of ozone were obtained : I. 0'0038 grm. II .
0'0037 grm. III .
0*0046 grm. IV .
0'0043 grm. V. 0-0040 grin .
Mean. .
00041 grm , In the arangement above described , the oxygen gas derived from the electrolytic decomposition of water was therefore accmpanied by about g-3oth of its weight of ozone .
In order to remove every possible doubt from these results , I fitted up an apparatus from every part of which organic substances were excluded .
No diaphragm was used , and all the connexions were made , either by fusing the ends of the connecting tubes together , or by means of ground glass joints .
The arrangement is represented in fig. 2 .
Two platina wires ( fig. 3 ) were fused into the end of a glass tube , which was fitted by grinding to the tubulated neck b of the vessel A. The tube BB'B " was connected at a with the vessel A by a ground joint , and with C by fusion .
It contained pumice moistened with sulphuric acid .
The vessel C was also filled with sulphuric acid , and was connected by a ground glass joint with the iodide of potassium vessel D. The vessel E contained , as before , sulphuric acid .
In this experiment , both the hydrogen and the oxygen traversed the apparatus , the accuracy of which was thus exposed to a very severe test .
Twenty-two litres of the mixed gases were passed through the apparatus .
The gain in weight of D and E was 0-0135 grn. , the respective heights of the barometer at the first and second weighings having been 28*96 in .
and 29f57 in .
, and the temperatures 11 ?
'1 and 10 ?
*0 .
The correction for change of pressure and temperature is therefore +0*0014 grn. , and the true gain 0'0149 grm. The free iodine in D , due to the action of the ozone , neutralized 62,65 measures of a solution of sulphurous acid , of which 1 measure corresponded to 0'00373 grm. iodine .
The weight of ozone deduced from the iodine set free is therefore 0*0148 grm. The identity of these results is very satisfactory , when it is considered that this small weight of ozone was separated from 22 litres , or nearly five gallon measures of THfE CONSTITUTION AND PROPERTIES OF OZONE .
the mixed gases .
The relative quantity of ozone to the amount of water decomposed is less than in the former experiments , arising perhaps partly from a single platina wire having been in this case employed as the positive pole .
In this exper-iment , great care was taken to exclude both carbonic acid and nitrogen from the electrolyte .
My next object was to determine , by careful quantitative experiments , whether water is really formed , as WILLIAMSON and BAUMERT have stated , when ozone is decomposed by heat .
For this purpose , the same general arrangement was employed as in the first series of these experiments ; but the first LIEBIG'S apparatus D , instead of being filled with a solution of iodide of potassium , was now empty , and placed in the upper part of a metallic cylinder ( fig. 4 HH ) , where it was raised to a tempe rature of about 400 ?
C. , by a current of heated air from a LESLIE 's burner .
To the sulphuric acid apparatus E , was permanently attached and weighed along with it , a small U-tube G , containing anhydrous phosphoric acid , so as to secure the condensation of the last trace of aqueous vapour , if any were present .
The oxygen gas was collected and measured as in the former experiments .
Two experiments were made .
In the first , 6*8 litres of oxygen containing 0'027 grm. ozone were passed through the apparatus ; in the second , 96 litres containing 0,038 grm. ozone .
The compound sulphuric and phosphoric acid apparatus was found , all corrections having been made , to have increased , in the one case one-third , and in the other case one-half of a milligramme in weight .
Such quantities can only be referred to the unavoidable errors of experiment .
If ozone were a compound body having the constitution HO3 , the apparatus would have gained in the first experiment 10 , and in the second 14 milligrammes .
That ozone cannot contain nitrogen will appear forom the following experiment .
Two platina wires were hermetically sealed into the bottom of a small flask , into which water , containing a little sulphuric acid , was introdulced and made to boil rapidly for some time .
While the water was in a state of ebullition , the wires were connected with the poles of a voltaic arrangement , so as to disengage the mixed gases along with the vapour of water .
So long as the ebullition continued , no ozone made its appearance ; but on allowing the liquid gradually to cool , without arresting the current , its presence soon became manifest from its odour and action on iodide of potassium paper .
The ebullition and the current of the mixed gases must have rendered the presence of nitrogen here impossible .
One question still remains to be answered .
Does ozone , besides oxygen , contain any other constituent which is not absorbable by any of the reagents employed ?
Although the gas which escaped from the apparatus , after the separation of the ozone , appeared to be pure oxygen , yet it would be rash to assert that it might not have contained some unknown body amounting to -lo'uth of its weight , and having no very salient properties .
This question appeared to me to admit of solution in another way .
It will be seen , in a subsequent part of this paper , that there can be no doubt of the formation of ozone fromin pure and dry oxygen by the action of the electrical spark , and nothing is easier than to convert the whole of a given volume of oxygen into ozone in presence of a solution of iodide of potassium .
The next step in the inquiry was therefore to ascertain whether ozone derived from electrolysis , from the action of the electrical spark , and from the oxidation of phosphorus , exhibited a perfect identity in all its properties .
One of the most remarkable properties of ozone is its destruction by heat , or rather its conversion by heat into ordinary oxygen .
To ascertain the temperature at which this change occurs , the vessel D , fig. 4 , was placed in a bath of mercury , and the gas examined as it escaped , without previously passing it through the rest of the apparatus .
On heating the mercurial bath , the amount of ozone , as determined by its action on iodide of potassium paper* , did not notably diminish till the temperature attained 230 ?
C. It still continued , however , very intense till the thermometer rose to 235 ? .
Between that point and 2400 the ozone reactions entirely disappeared , when the ozone was in a very dilute state ; but when more concentrated , slight traces of ozone could still be discovered , which no doubt would have also disappeared if the current of gas had been passed very slowly .
Time is in fact an element in this action .
Even at the temperature of 1000C .
ozone is slowly destroyed .
Two similar tubes were filled , at the same time , and by the same process , with ozone diluted as usual with oxygen , and afterwards hermetically sealed .
One of these tubes was maintained for three hours in a vapour bath at 1000 C. , the other was not exposed to heat .
On examining both tubes at the end of the time , it was found that the ozone in the tube which had been exposed to heat was perceptibly less than in the other .
I have no doubt that , even at the commoin temperature of the air , ozone preserved in an hermetically sealed glass tube would gradually change into common oxygen .
I made an experiment of this kind two or three years ago , which resulted in the disappearance of the ozone , but I do not remember the source from which the ozone was derived , nor what precautions were taken to dry the gas .
On the other hand , ozone brought directly into contact with the vapour of water at the boiling-point is instantly destroyed .
To obtain a continuous stream of ozone from the action of the electrical spark , a current of pure oxygen gas , obtained from the decomnposition of the chlorate of potassa , and purified and dried by passing through tubes containing hydrate of potassa and sulphuric acid , was exposed to a rapid succession of electrical sparks .
To obtain a sufficient stream of electricity , an electrical machine , firmly screwed down to the floor of the apartment , was connected by a belt with a heavy cast-iron wheel , 40 inches in diameter , contained in a frame which was also firmly secured to the floor .
By this arrangement , the machine could be worked for any length of time continuously , the plate performing about 360 revolutions per minute .
It was of course necessary to apply very frequently a hand rubber covered with amralgam to the plate , and it required the cooperation of three persons to permit the work to be easily performed .
On passing the gas through the apparatus at nearly the same rate as in the experiments already described , an abundant stream of ozone was obtained , which enabled me to institute a very exact comparison between its properties and those of ozone obtained by electrolysis .
When heated in the mercurial bath , ozone prepared in this way was rapidly destroyed at the temperature of 237 ?
C. , which is the same temperature at which electrolytic ozone was also destroyed .
The vapour of boiling water , in like manner , caused all the ozone reactions to disappear .
The action of water at common temperatures and of alkaline solutions upon ozone is very remarkable .
It is commonly stated that caustic potassa absorbs ozone , but that pure water , and solutions of lime , baryta , and ammonia , have no action upon it .
This statement is far from being accurate .
Pure water does not absorb ozone , and a stream of air containing ozone may be passed for any length of time through water without producing any change in the properties of the water .
I have also preserved ozone for several days in a stoppered vial containing a little distilled water , and although the vessel was agitated from time to time , the ozone did not disappear .
On the other hand , pure water has the property of destroying a small quantity of ozone .
If ozone , obtained by the electrolysis of water , or by the action of the electrical spark , or by means of phosphorus , be largely diluted with atmospheric air , it will entirely disappear , if an attempt be made to collect it in a jar inverted over water .
The following experiment is more precise .
A flask provided with a ground glass stopper , of the capacity of half a litre , was filled with equal volumes of water and atmospheric air and inverted in the pneumatic trough .
The ozone in a single bubble of electrolytic oxygen , passed quietly through the water into this volume of air , could easily be detected ; but on agitating the water briskly , even four or five bubbles were deprived of their ozone .
The same gas , agitated with twice its volume of lime water , or one-third of its volume of baryta water , also ceased to exhibit the reactions of ozone .
In like manner , the action of caustic potassa is also limited .
A strong solution of that alkali in a LIEBIG'S apparatus deprived one litre of electrolytic oxygen of its ozone , after which the ozone passed freely through it .
These phenomena are singular and characteristic , and are the same with ozone from whatever source it is derived .
Peroxide of manganese destroys ozone , affording an interesting example of what is commonly called catalytic action .
The oxide of manganese does not increase in weight , nor is water formed .
Ozone from the three sources gives the same results .
The odour of ozone , from whatever source derived , is the same .
The same remark applies to its property of bleaching , without producing at first an acid reaction .
Iodide of potassium is decomposed with the formation of iodate of potassa , and oxidable substances in solution , as the protosulphate of iron , are raised to a higher state of oxidation by all the varieties of ozone .
It would not be difficult to extend this comparison , but enough has been shown , I conceive , to establish the absolute identity in properties of ozone in whatever way it may be prepared .
Any difference which , on a superficial examination , may appear to exist , will be found on further inquiry to arise from the ozone being in a more or less dilute state .
That ozone is formed by the action of the electrical spark on perfectly dry oxygen , is placed beyond all doubt by the following experiment .
The curved tube a , fig. 5 , having two platina wires , pp ' , hlermetically sealed into it , was inverted over mercury and carefully filled with pure oxygen , after which a little sulphuric acid was introduced into one end ( b ) .
The whole was allowed to remain for twenty-four hours , when the oxygen was considered to be perfectly dry .
Electrical sparks were now passed for some time between the platina wires , after which a solution of iodide of potassium was introduced into the other end of the tube .
It became immediately coloured frlom the formation of free iodine , and the colour continued slowly to increase as the ozone was gradually absorbed .
Again , a solution of iodide of potassium may be made to absorb the whole of the oxygen in a narrow tube , by the passage of electrical sparks .
This experiment has been described by FREMY and BECQUEREL , and I have myself repeatedly verified its accuracy .
With a thermometer tube 2 inches long , the whole of the oxygen may be made to disappear in the course of one minute .
The solution becomes always red from the decomposition of the iodide of potassium .
We have already seen that neither hydrogen nor nitrogen can be constituents of ozone , whether it be obtained from electrolysis , or from the action of the electrical spark on oxygen ; and further , that all the supposed varieties of ozone exhibit in all respects identical properties .
Connecting all these facts together , it clearly follows , That no gaseous compound having the composition HO , is formed during the electrolysis of water ; and That ozone , from whatever source derived , is one and the same body , having identical properties and the same constitution , and is not a compound body , but oxygen in an altered or allotropic condition .
13

