42 Dr. A. Ransom on Forced Breathing .
[ Dec. 18 , III .
" On the Male , and the Structure , of By R. von Willemoes-Suhm , Ph. D. , H.M.S. Challenger Communicated by Prof. Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received October 24 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) This is an addition to the paper on Thaumops pellucida by the same author ( Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xxi .
p. 206 ) , containing an account of the male , and some corrections of the description formerly given .
The species appears to be widely distributed , and to live at moderate depths , coming to the surface at night .
IV .
" On the Bending of the Ribs in Forced Breathing " By Arthur Ransome , M.D. Communicated by Dr. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 15,1873 .
( Abstract .
) In a paper " On the Mechanical Conditions of the Respiratory Movements , " read before the Royal Society in November 1872* , the author endeavoured to show that there is a distinct difference in the chord lengths of a sternal rib in the two positions of full inspiration and forced expiration , and that a certain degree of bending of the ribs usually takes place in forced breathing .
The measurements on which these conclusions were based were made with a 3-plane stethometer , the performance of which was not sufficiently accurate to satisfy the author , who has accordingly repeated them by the aid of a new instrument , the construction and use of which are described at length in the present communication .
The author considers that the new instrument gives fairly accurate results , which fully corroborate the conclusions pre-viosly enunciated .
December 18 , 1873 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
Pursuant to notice given at the last Meeting , the President proposed , and Professor Henry John Stephen Smith seconded , the Right Hon. Edward .Cardwell , M.P. , Secretary of State for War , for election and immediate ballot . .
- .
The ballot having been taken , Mr. Cardwell was declared duly elected .
The Presents received were laid on the Table , and thanks ordered for them .
* Proceedings of the Royal Society , November 22 , 1872 .
1873 .
] Mr. J. A. Broun on Sun-spots and Terrestrial Magnetism .
43 The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Period of Hemispherical Excess of Sun-spots , and the 26-day Period of Terrestrial Magnetism .
" By J. A. Broun , F.R.S. Received September 13 , 1873 .
It appears from the interesting communication to the Royal Society , June 19th , by Messrs. De La Rue , Stewart , and Loewy* , that the difference of the area of spots on the visible northern and southern quarter-spheres of the sun seems , during periods of considerable solar disturbance , to obey a law such that the difference is a maximum in the same quarter-sphere during several successive rotations of the sun , the difference being a maximum alternately in the northern and southern hemispheres\#151 ; the time from maximum to maximum , for the same hemisphere , being variable between 18 and 32 days , but having a mean value of about 25-2 days .
It occurs at once that if the variations of the mean terrestrial magnetic force are connected in any way with the solar spots , or the causes which produce them , we might here find some explanation of the magnetic period of 26 days , the difference of spot-area in one hemisphere from that in the other being related to a difference of the solar magnetic action .
In order to determine whether such a connexion existed , I projected first the curves of excess of spot-area given in the paper of Messrs. De La Rue , Stewart , and Loewy , and below them the daily mean horizontal force of the earth 's magnetism during the same periods .
The conclusion from these projections is , that there is no relation whatever between the two classes of curves .
The maxima and minima of the one agree in no way with those of the other : the greatest excesses of sunspot area in the one hemisphere over those in the other occur when the earth 's magnetic force is the most constant ; the greatest variations of the earth 's magnetic force from the mean occur in several instances when the sun-spot area is equal in the two visible quarter-spheres .
It should be remembered , in considering the curves of sun-spot excess , that the minima and maxima are in some cases only relative , \#151 ; sometimes the one , sometimes the other being really cases in which there is neither maximum nor minimum\#151 ; that is to say , cases in which the sun-spot area is equal , or nearly so , in the two visible quarter-spheres .
It would be hasty to conclude from this comparison that the variations of the mean magnetic force are really unconnected with the mode of distribution of the sun-spots .
Other methods of grouping the spots may perhaps be employed with advantage relatively to this and other questions ; for example , were the position of the centre of gravity of the sun-spots determined for the visible quarter-spheres and hemisphere , * Proc. Koy .
Soc. vol. xxi .
p. 391 ) .
44 Prof. Duncan on the Nervous System of Actinia .
[ Dec. 18 , giving each spot a weight in proportion to its area , the variation of these positions in latitude and longitude , and their weights , might give a more satisfactory base for this comparison and for other deductions .
It will be obvious also that this investigation refers only to the visible hemisphere of the sun ; an approximation to the spot-distribution on the other hemisphere , however , will be frequently possible .
II .
" On the Nervous System of A Part I. By Professor P. Martin Duncan , M.B. Lond. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received October 9 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) After noticing the investigations of previous anatomists in the histology of the chromatophores , the work of Schneider and Rotteken on these supposed organs of special sense is examined and criticised .
Agreeing with Rotteken in his description , some further information is given respecting the nature of the bacillary layer and the minute anatomy of the elongated cells called " cones " by that author .
The position and nature of the pigment-cells is pointed out , and also the peculiarities of the tissues they environ .
It is shown that the large re-fractile cells , which , according to Rotteken , are situated between the bacilli and the cones , are not invariably in that position , but that bacilli , cones , and cells are often found separate .
They are parts of the ecto-thelium , and when conjoined enable light to affect the nervous system more readily than when they are separate .
Further information is given respecting the fusiform nerve-cells and small fibres noticed by Rotteken in the tissue beneath the cones ; and the discovery of united ganglion-like cells and a diffused plexiform arrangement of nerve is asserted . .
The probability of a continuous plexus round the Actinia and beneath each chromatophore is suggested , and the physiological action of the structures in relation to light is explained .
The minute structure of the muscular fibres and their attached fibrous tissue in the base of Actinia is noticed ; and the nervous system in that region is asserted to consist of a plexus beneath the endothelium , in which are fusiform cells and fibres like sympathetic nerve-fibrils .
Moreover , between the muscular layers there is a continuation of this plexus , whose ultimate fibrils pass obliquely over the muscular fibres , and either dip between or are lost on them .
The other parts of the Actinia are under the examination of the author , but their details are not sufficiently advanced for publication .
The nervous system , so far as it is examined , consists of isolated fusiform cells with small ends ( Rotteken ) , and of fusiform and spherical cells which communicate with each other and with a diffused plexus .
The plexus at the base is areolar ; and its ultimate fibres are swollen here and there , the whole being of a pale grey colour .

