XII .
A new Eudiometer , accompanied with Experiments , elucidating its Application .
By William Hasledine Pepys , Esq. Communicated by Charles Hatchett , Esq. F. R. S. Read June 4 , 18o7 .
HE important part which atmospheric air performs , in maintaining the principle of life in animals , in combustion of every description , the acidification , and oxidation of a great variety of substances , and in numerous other processesboth of nature and art , gives a high degree of interest to every thing calculated to extend our knowledge of its nature and properties .
The evidence furnished by modern chemistry , of the existence of many other aeriform substances , increases this interest , especially when it is considered that , owing to their possessing some of the most , obvious properties of atmospheric air , as transparency , elasticity , and a power of great expansion , on being exposed to an increase of temperature , theywere with very few exceptions till lately , confounded either witn common air , or not even suspected to exist .
When to these considerations , we add the facility with which some products , especially the gaseous , are evolved , in circumstances under which in the present state of our knowledge , we should hardly look for them ; the power they possess of decomposing each other , and by an interchange and new arrangement of principles , of producing compounds , possessing Kk-2 properties:t the r.different , fisomto sef 'of the ingredients supposed to , be preseent ; and the faciitiies which every new detectio tiofnsusapectgd .
pncipes afford , towards the discovery of others , and consequently the composition , or analysis of bodies before held to be simple , it will not appear a matter of surprise , that the subject of eudiometry , should have obtained a considerable degree of attention from modern philosophers .
This would be an improper place to enumerate all that has been done , or proposed , by different men of eminence , towards the production of something like a perfect system on this important subject ; yet some allusion to their labours appears to be .
indispensible , and will be the means of preventing some circumlocution in our farther progress .
HALES* appears to be the first who observed absorption to take place in common air , on mixing it with air obtained from a mixture of Walton pyrites and:spirits of nitre ; and that in this process , from being clear they became " a reddish turbid fume .
" Dr. PRIESTLY , as he informs us in his Observations on different kinds of Air , was much struck with this experiment , but never expected to have the satisfaction of seeing this remarkable ap pearance supposing it to be peculiar to the Walton pyrites , till encouraged by a suggestion of Mr , CAVENDISH , that probably , the red appearance of the mixture depended upon the sprits of nitre only , he tried solutions of the different etals in that acid , and catching the air which was generated , obtained what he wished .
Tothe air thus produced , he gave the name.of nius air , an from its posssingthe properties of aborbi tihas toer tn ofatmopheric air which he callsepogiticated , first popsed its bing ued as a test for ascertaining the purity of air .
His method of proceeding was ingenious and simple ; known quantities of the air to be tried , and of nitrous gas being mixed , were admitted after the diminution of volume occasioned by their union , into a graduated tube , which he denominated a eudiometer .
It was with the test of nitrous gas that Mr. CAVENDiSHI made his masterly analysis of the air at Kensington and !
London ; and by many laborious processes and comparative trials obtained results , the accuracy of which has been more : distinctly perceived the more the science of chemistry has !
advanced .
The slow combustion of phosphorus , which unites with the oxigene to form an acid , and the decompositionof the fluid sulphuret of potash , , are certain methods of separating combinations consisting of oxigene and azote : but the decomposition , ; is effected so slowly , by the action of these substances , that it became a desirable object , to discover some means for accelerating : the process .
This was supposed to have been ef-fected by GuYTON , who proposed heating the sulphuret of potash ; in doing this , sulphurated hydrogene gas however is frequently evolved , which , mixing with the residual gas , increases its quantity , and renders the result fallacious .
The green sulphate of iron impregnated with nitrous gas , first discovered -by Dr. PRIESTLY , and recently used by Mr. DAVY for eudiometrical purposes , from its possessing the property of absorbing oxigene gas from the atmosphere , is much * Phil. Trans , for 1783 .
to be preferred to the method with nitrous gas , as the green sulphate of iron does not combine with the other gases , with which the nitrous gas is commonly found to be contaminated , and more certain results are obtained .
Having had occasion to repeat many of the experiments of others , and to make some new ones , I soon found what every one , who has been engaged on the same subject , -must have experienced ; that an apparatus more commodious than has yet been proposed , and at the same time capable of giving correct results , with the greatest-minuteness , was still a desideratum in eudiometry .
To detail the various ideas that presented themselves on the subject , would be an unnecessary encroachment on the time of this Society : but as I at last succeeded in contriving an instrument , possessing the above properties in a very eminent degree , I flatter myself I shall not be thought intrusive , in offering a description of it .
This apparatus , which is of easy construction , and extremely portable , consists of a glass measure M. fig. i , graduated into hundred parts ; a small gum elastic bottle B. fig. 2 , capable of containing about twice the quantity of the measure , and furnished with a perforated glass stopper S , which is well secured in the neck of it , by means of waxed thread wouhd tight round it : and a glass tube , T. fig. 3 , also graduated , but into tenths of the formed divisons , or into thousand parts of the measure .
The glass stopper , made fast in the neck of the gum elastic bottle , as above mentioned , has its exterior end ground " with emery , exactly to fit the mouth of the measure ; t the lower end of the graduated ttube T is cemented a small steel cock , which:.is secured into the .
neck of a very small gum elastic bottle , by means of waxed thread : S B. fig. 4 ; the other end of the tube is conical , so as to present a very small orifice .
Besides this , the apparatus is furnished with a kind of moveable cistern 'C , in which the " tube can be slid easily up and " down , and yet in such a manner that the water'or other liquid in the cistern may not pass .
This is easily accomplished by means of a cork fitted into its mouth , with a perforation Ithrough its axis tol receive the tube .
The ' cistern , when in.use , is to be filled with water , or mercury , as the experiment may require , andbecomes a secondary cistern for the measure .
, as will .
be more clearly understood , by the following description of the method of performing experiments with this instrument .
The measure is filled with the air , or gas , over mercury in the usual manner ; and the elastic bottle is charged with thesolution , intended to be employed as the reagent : the orifice of the stopper is then inserted into the mouth of the measure,.in the mercury , and pressed home to its place .
The bottle and measure being thus united , are to be firmly held at the joint .
Upon pressing the former , a portion of the fluid is injected into the latter , and ' the gas suffers a degree of compression , by which the action of the affinity , between it and the fluid , is accelerated .
On taking off the pressure , the.bottle , by its elasticity , endeavours to obtain its original form , and receives back the fluid .
This process should be continued as long as any absorption is observed to take place .
When.absorption ceases , the bottle is to be separated ' from the measure undermercury , and the quicksilver which remains in the measure beinJg broughttoth level of that in the cistern , the quantity of absorptnis thea be termined , which is done as foibows : Suppose atmospheric air has been the subject of the experiment , and consequentlya large residuum left : first note the hundred parts ; and then to obtain a knowledge of the fractiona , parts , remove the measure into the small intern , in wheh the graduedtube filed with mercury is placed : slide the : tube -abovehe surfae of t thfluid in the measure , and opening the stop-cock suffer the merury descend till it has drawn the fluid in the measure to a regular divsaon then stop the cock , andregiser the hundred parts o the measure , and..the thousand -parts on the graduated tube ; the united quantities give the sum of the residual gas .
, Observe well in registering the thousand parts , that the fluids areiexactly on a level , on the outside and the inside of the measure ; this may be easily effected , by pouring out a portion of the iquid of the small cistern , or adding thereto , If instead of atmospheric air , a gas is tried , which so far as it .
is uncontaminated can be nearly wholly absorbed by the reagents employed , the process becomes exceedingly simple ; for if the residuum is under a hundred part of the measure , it may be transferred completely into the graduated tube , and its quantity at once ascertained .
The stopper S would have injected the fluid with greater veldocty had it been straight , but it would not then have been so convenient in the analysis of compound gases , where.both mercury and hot lutions are occasionally employedi as the mercury would have so compressed the fluid in the bottle , in as to have''thorowiota portio ofts o^ntets , ande als have rbed the hot : sIol1tio n of the temperature which was necessary for their perfect action .
-As to the -sizeof the meaure M , I have generally preferred the cubic inch divided into hundred parts .
This is easily effected by taking a stoutglass tube about half an inch calibre , sealing one end , then weighing 3422 grains of mercury , equal to ' 25a ' grains of distilled water at temperature o0 ?
FAHRENrEITr .
This is introduced into the tube ; the extra length ' is cut of with a sharp-edged file , care being taken to leave a sufficient ' potkn to ; -rind the : perforated stopper S into its mouth .
- ; ;The diisions are obtained by a small measure , made from a glasstube sealed at the end , and cut offexactly to the hundred parts of a cubic inch , c equal to 34.2 grains of mercury , which being ground flat , is stopped by a piece Of plate glass , and the ' divisions marked by the diamond , upon the introduction of each hundred part of mercury into the measure M. The tube T , is divided into tenths of the measure M , or thousand ; parts of a cubic inch .
This is done by measuring ; one hundredpart of a cubic inch into the tube , and dividingit ' in to ten parts , marking the divisions with , fluoric acid , or black -eamel .
, To prove the accuracy of the instrument , I shall proceed to relate a few experiments made with it .
The elastic bottle being filled with the solution of sulphate of iron impregnated with nitrous gas , and the measure with atmospheric air , they were united , and by gentle injection oS were absorbed .
If the experiment is made hastily , theimpregnated solution loses a portion of itsnitrous gas , which -must be again absorbed by a solution of green sulphate of iron .
For ascertaining the purity of nitrous gas , the bottle may be charged with the solution of green sulphate or muriate of iron .
For carbonic acid gas , with lime or barytic water .
For oxygene gas , with the solution of green sulphate of iron impregnated with nitrous gas .
For sulphurated hydrogene gas , a solution of nitrate of silver was put in the elastic bottle , and sulphurated hydrogene gasf into the graduated measure .
Upon the first injection , the solution took a black flocculent appearance , and a considerable portion of the gas was absorbed .
After repeating the process as before mentioned , the residuum was : The instrument may be likewise generally applied to the analysis of mixed gases .
I have been able , completely to separate the carbonic acid gas from the sulphurated hydrogene , by a solution of the nitrate of silver , or of mercury employed hot .
The carbonic acid gas is expanded in this process , but on standing over mercury it returns to its original volume .
The sulphurated hydrogene , in this instance , is taken up by the metallic nitrate .
It should be here observed that the acetite of lead must not be used , as the carbonic acid gas , even at a high temperature , decomposes it , forming carbonate of lead .
The propriety of using the solutions hot , will be seen , * Obtained from oxymuriate of potash by heat .
+ Obtained from sulphuret of potash by diluted muriatic acid , and collected and preserved with the greatest care .
sS14 when we recollect that the carbonic acid gas is soluble in , the water of solution , at the common temperatureof all these compounds .
Nitrous gas , and carbonic acid gas , may be separated by means of the hot solution of the green sulphate of iron .
To effect this , heat a solution on a glass capsule over a spirit lamp until ebullition .
Having filled the measure with the compound gas , charge ; the elastic bottle with the hot solution , and unite them .
The nitrous gas in two or three injections will be absorbed , changing the colour of the solution , while the carbonic acid gas will be a little rarefied , but no absorption of it will take place .
Previous to these experiments on the compound gases , I had tried several on the carbonic acid , sulphurated hydrogene , and nitrous gases in their unmixed states .
One hundred parts of pure alcohol at the common temperature will absorb 70 parts in volume of carbonic acid , and the same quantity of sulphurated hydrogene .
Alcohol impregnated with the latter , precipitates the solutions of the nitrates of lead , silver , and mercury , of a dark-brown colour .
Nitric acid of the specific gravity 1.4 , and also of 1.25 , absorbs carbonic acid gas , without any apparent change in.the ' nitric acid .
Sulphurated hydrogene gas is also absorbed by nitric acid , which occasions a slight milky cloud or precipitate therein .
The solutions of nitrates of barytes , strontian , and lime , absorb carbonic acid gas equal to half their volume , without any apparent alteration .
Solutions of nitrates of barytes , strontian , and lime , also absorb sulphurated hydrogene gas , equal to -_ of their volume , with a slight change of colour ; the solutions thus impregnated , precipitate solutions of nitrates of mercury , and of silver , and acetite of lead , of a dark brown colour , and would be useful as chemical reagents .
Carbonic acid gas , as I have before stated , decomposes solutions of the acetite of lead , hot , or cold , forming a precipitate of carbonate of lead .
Carbonic acid gas is absorbed by the solution of the green sulphate of iron , under the temperature of 100 ?
FAHRENHEIT : but this is only the action of the water of solution .
If the temperature be near boiling , or above 180 ?
FAHRENHEIT , the solution increases the volume of the gas without the slightest absorption ; after carbonic acid gas has in this way been treated with the hot solutions , it is still soluble in water at the common temperature , or in aqueous solutions of lime , or alkali .
Nitrous gas is absorbed by solution of sulphuret of potash , with a separation or formation of sulphur .
Upon injecting the solution the sides of the measure take a milky appearance , which on the second injection is washed down , insoluble in the liquor .
About 80 parts from loo of gas are absorbed .
Nitrous gas is also absorbed by nitrate of copper in solution , without any peculiar alteration .
In these experiments , great carp must be taken not to increase the temperature of the gas by the hand .
To prevent this I use a pair of small circular-mouthed forceps , lined with cloth , which firmly grasp the measure , fig. 5 ; and if the experiments should in any way be delayed , a corresponding manometer will always be sufficient to correct the error occasioned by change of atmospheric temperature and pressure .
To ascertain the quantity of carbonic acid gas , contained in oxygene gas ( of a known purity , ) after combustion , or de@56 composition of arbotnaeous:s stances limeiwater will be found sufficient .
If it is required to know the purity of the oxygene ga ?
, after the carbonic:acid gasshas'been absorbed , ; the best method and the least liable to-error , is to withdraw the residual oxygene gas , by means of the small graduated tube before-described .
To do , :this , remove the measure into the : small ti-ster of mercury ; press the:quicksilver out of the small bottleby the fingers and thumb , and let the tube rise a sufficient height within the measure , that the bottle extendingitself shall withdraw the whole"of the gas from the measure , taking care that the cock:bestopped as soon as it has icompleted it , and -als to prevent the solution from entering the tube : If the opening of the tube is small , it may then 'be drawni down into the 'mercury , without the possibility of any portion of the gas escaping , while the measure is dried or cleaned , or a fresh one filled with mercury supplied to receive it .
This way of-transferring will be found very advantageous , particularly in the separation of gases , liable to be absorbed under certain ; temperatures , and also where a new seriesof re-agents are to be employed , as from the depositions of : former solutions on the glass measure , a source of considerable error would arise .
The residual oxygene gas being thus transferred into a clean dry measure , the processes before described for examiningoxygene gas may be then used ; or the quantity of carbonic acid gas ( for examination " ) being found by lime water , another measure of the gas may be tried , first with the green sulphate of iron impregnated with nitrous gas , and then with the green sulphate in solution only : these will take up both the carbonic acid gas , and the oxygene gas , leaving only such residual gas as the oxygene might have originally contained .
Transferring is not here necessary , as the two solutions may be used one after the other , taking care to use the solution of green sulphate last .
Where it is not requisite to transfer the gas into a dried or clean measure , previous to the use of-another solution , as in the instance : I have just mentioned , a quantity of thefirst solution may be withdrawn , by simply filling the elastic bottle with mercury , then joining it to the measure , and by nclining the measure , the .
mercury by its gravity will displace the former solution .
If at any time the gas should get drawn into the elastic bottle ; it may be very easily.retu rned into the measure , by inclining sometimes the bottle , and : sometimes the measure .
The only error .
that could arise , from this is , an increase of temperature in the gas , which may be rectified , by plunging the whole apparatus into mercury or water , of the standard temperature .
The advantages of this construction of the eudiometer , will be readily perceived by all those who are in the habit of making chemical experiments .
The portion of gas to be examined is completely under command ; it may be agitated without the 'least fear of the intrusion:of any atmospheric air , and the process thereby very materially shortened .
The gum elastic is a substanceso little acted upon by chemical agents , that a great variety may be employed ; and above all , we can very conveniently use hot solutions , which will be found an important auxiliary in the examination of some compound gases .
Simple as this instrument may appear , it is calculated to extend our knowledge of the different kinds of air , by the precision and accuracy which it enables us to obtain , and which solely constitutes the value of every experiment .
A degree of confidence is inspired from knowing that we can depend upon our results ; and hence much valuable time , which would have been wasted in uncertain , if not useless investigations , may be directly applied to the advancement of science .

