II .
" On the Action of Nitrous Acid on Aniline .
" By A. MATTHIESSEN , Ph. D. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received January 12 , 1858 .
On repeating the experiments of Hunt* and Hofmann t , on the action of nitrous acid on aniline , I found that the reaction does not take place exactly as these chemists state ; I-unt gives the reaction as C12 -5 HN +NO3+HO C , 12H110+N2+ 2HO .
HJ Hofmann says that phenylic alcohol is not formed , but nitrophenassic acid , when binoxide of nitrogen is led into a diluted solution of the nitrate : H N+NO3+NO , =C , N4 }02+N2+2HO .
This reaction , although correct in the end result , omits the intermediate stage , which isC12 1lJ5 H1+ H2 O2 +N03=C , , H6 O NH3 + NO3 , H 1J and then N1TH+ N03N2 + 3H1O .
On account of the free nitric acid , the phenylic alcohol is always converted into nitrophenassic acid .
The ammonia was determined as platinum salt , and two experiments gave 43'9 and 44'1 per cent. of platinum ; the theoretical quantity required is 44-2 per cent. It appears , therefore , when nitrous acid acts on aniline , that in the first part of the reaction it causes only a substitution , and afterwards , the ammonia being attacked by it , gives off nitrogen and water .
t Chem. Soc. Quart .
Journ. iii .
231 .
Ammonia was obtained either by treating aniline with nitrous acid , or by the action of nitrate of potash on the chloride , or by leading the binoxide of nitrogen into a solution of the nitrate ; the latter was the way generally employed .
After about twelve hours ' action of NO2 on a solution of the nitrate in a water-bath , the solution was filtered from the nitrophenassic acid , and distilled with potash , the distillate treated with ether to dissolve out the aniline , redistilled in hydrochloric acid , evaporated , and the ammonia determined as platinum salt .
These results have led me to try the action of nitrous acid on other organic bases , and I have already obtained from ethylaniline a base which to all appearance is ethylamin .
The chloride gives off , when heated with potash , an alkaline inflammable gas , and the platinum salt resembles that of ethylamin ; but the platinum determination made with it does not agree very well with that salt .
I am now repeating the reaction on a larger scale , so that I shall shortly be able to see whether it is really ethylamin or not .
The foregoing experiments were carried out in the Royal College of Chemistry under the direction of Professor Hofmann .

