The following papers were read:1 .
" On the Meteorology of the Lake District , including the results of experiments on the fall of Rain at various heights up to 3166 feet above the sea-level .
Fourth paper .
For the year 1850 .
" By John Fletcher Miller , Esq. , F.R.S. , F.R.A.S. &amp;c. Received February 21 , 1851 .
The observations detailed in this paper are similar to those described by the author in his former papers , and the results deduced from them agree generally with those previously obtained .
In the introductory remarks , the author states that he determined the heights of the different rain-gauges above the level of the sea by means of an excellent Aneroid barometer ( previously compared with a standard ) , and a standard barometer read simultaneously , or nearly so , at the sea-level ; and he gives the heights of the several stations as thus estimated .
The most important fact connected with these observations is stated to be the discovery of a mountain station which promises to yield nearly one-third more rain than the hamlet of Seathwaite in Borrowdale , hitherto , with good reason , considered to be the wettest spot in the three kingdoms .
This , the new station , " the Sty , " on Sprinkling Fell , is about a mile and a half distant from Seathwaite , in a south-westerly direction , and 580 feet above it , at the extreme southern termination of the valley .
The actual quantity of water measured in eleven months of 1850 was 174 33 inches ; but as the receiver was found running over on four different occasions , the loss is calculated at 5 or 6 inches at least ; and 5*67 is added , making the quantity in eleven months 180-00 inches .
Adding to this 9-49 inches , the depth for January computed from that for January at Seathwaite , it appears that the whole depth of rain fallen at " the Sty " in 1850 was 189-49 inches .
The author further remarks , that the wettest year since the commencement of the observations was 1848 , when 160-89 inches fell at Seathwaite ; and computing the fall at the new station for that year , we have 211-62 inches for the depth of rain at " the Sty " in 1848 .

