322 Dr. G. Gore .
Effects of Electric Currents .
[ Apr. 22 April 22 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered f01 The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. Effects of Electric Currents on the Surfaces of Mutual Contact of Aqueous Solutions .
" By G. Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received March 17 , 1880 .
( Preliminary Statement .
) In the year 1859 I made the following experiments , for the purpose of ascertaining whether visible movements , similar to those obtained by passing an electric current through mercury and an aqueous solution , could be obtained by passing a current through the surface of mutual contact of two aqueous liquids alone " 1st .
A definite layer of oil of vitriol was placed beneath a layer of distilled water weakly acidulated with sulphuric acid , and the terminal wires of a voltaic battery immersed m the upper liquid ; no visible movements occurred at the boundary line of the two liquids .
2nd .
A dense solution Qf cyanide of potassium was placed in a small glass beaker , a few particles of charcoal sifted upon its surface , and a layer of aqueous ammonia , half an inch deep , carefully poured upon it .
A vertical diaphragm of thin sheet gutta-percha was then fixed so as completely to divide the upper liquid into two equal parts ; the vessel was placed in a strong light , and two horizontal platinum wire electrodes , from sixty-six freshly charged Smee 's cells , were immersed one-eighth of an inch deep in the liquid ammonia on each side of the diaphragm .
A copious current of electricity circulated , but no movement of the liquids at their mutual boundary line could be detected .
" ( See " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. x , 1860 , p. 235 , par .
9 .
) Recently , also , I have made similar experiments , but in a much more searching manner , in order to ascertain whether an electric current , passing between two aqueous liquids , affects their diffusion into each other .
The essential difference in the form of these experiments from that of the above-mentioned ones was to concentrate the action of the current upon a very much smaller surface of contact of the liquids , and thus render any visible effect upon their diffusion more manifest .
1880 .
] I)r .
Ramsay .
On the Critical State of Gases .
32o After making several forms of apparatus , in order to obviate certain difficulties of manipulation which arose and were fatal to success , X found that , when an electric current was passed between the surfaces of mutual contact of certain aqueous solutions of different specific gravities , the boundary line of contact of the two liquids became indefinite at the surface where the current passed from the lighter into the heavier solution , and became sharply defined where the current left the heavier liquid and re-entered the lighter one ; and that on reversing the direction of the current several times in succession after suitable intervals of time , these effects were reversed with each such change .
Also , in various cases in which the contiguous boundary layers of the two liquids had become mixed , the liquids separated , and the line of separation of the two solutions became , by the influence of the electric current , as perfect as that between strata of oil and water lying upon each other .
In rarer cases two such distinct lines of stratification appeared .
Other new phenomena were also observed .
As I have sought , without success , for any record of previous discovery of essentially similar effects , and as it is evident that those I have observed belong to a large class of similar phenomena , I beg leave to take the earliest opportunity of submitting this brief statement to the Royal Society .
II .
" On the Critical State of Gases ; ' By William Ramsay , Ph. D. , Professor of Chemistry in University College , Bristol .
Communicated by Professor Mills , F.R.S. Received February 26 , 1880 .
In a paper read before the Chemical Society , in May , 1879 , I gave an account of a method of determining what is termed by Kopp the " specific volumes " of liquids ; that was shown to be the volume of liquid at its boiling-point , at ordinary atmospheric pressure , obtainable from 22,326 volumes of its gas , supposed to exist at 0 ' .
Being desirous of extending these researches , with the view of ascertaining such relations at higher temperatures , since April , 1879 , I have made numerous experiments , the results of , and deductions from which I hope to publish before long .
The temperatures observed vary from the boiling-points of the liquids examined , to about 50 ' above their critical points ; and in course of these experiments I have noticed some curious facts , which may not be unworthy of the attention of the Society .
It is well known that at temperatures above that which produces what is termed by Dr. Andrews the " critical point " of a liquid , the

