158 Mr. H. E. E-oscoe on a Method of measuring the [ Feb. 5 only calling into use the fine tips of the third and fourth pairs of thoracic limbs to hold fast its charge .
When it fully retires into the case , the claws of the two posterior pairs of legs are pressed backwards against the lining membrane , so as still more effectually to secure its hold on the approach of danger .
II .
" On a Self-recording Method of Measuring the Intensity of the Chemical Action of Total Daylight .
" By H. E. Roscoe , F.R.S. Received November 27 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the present communication is to describe an instrument by which the varying intensity of the chemically active rays , as affecting chloride of silver paper of constant sensitiveness , can be made self-recording .
The method described by the author in the Bakerian Lecture for 1865 , although it has been the means of bringing into notice many important facts concerning the distribution of the sun 's chemical activity throughout the atmosphere , as well as in different situations on the earth 's surface , has not as yet been introduced as a portion of the regular work of meteorological observatories , owing to the fact that , in order to obtain a satisfactory curve of daily chemical intensity , at least hourly observations need to be made , and this involves the expenditure of more time and labour than it has been found possible to give .
In the present communication a method is described , which , whilst preserving untouched the principles and accuracy of the former method , reduces the personal attention needed for carrying out the measurements to a minimum , and thus renders its adoption in observatories possible .
According to this plan , a constant sensitive paper is exposed by a selfacting arrangement for accurately known times , at given intervals throughout the day .
The insolation apparatus stocked with sensitive paper is placed in position either early in the morning of the day during which the measurements have to be made , or on the previous night , and by means of an electric communication with a properly arranged clock , the sensitive paper is exposed every hour during the day , so that , in the evening , the observer has only to read off , in the ordinary manner , t e hourly intensities which have been recorded on the paper during the day .
This self-recording arrangement , though apparently simple , inrolves points which have rendered its successful completion a somewhat diihcui matter , owing , in the first place , to the great variations which occur m the chemical intensity of total daylight in different places , at difiemnt times of the day , and in different periods of the year ; mid swonffly , owing to the fact that , in order to be able to estnnatethe^emi^ intensity , the coloration acquired by the.paper must reach , but not mucn 1874 .
] Intensity of the Chemical Action of Total Daylight .
159 exceed , a given tint .
It becomes necessary therefore that on each occasion when an observation is needed , the sensitive paper should ' be exposed mechanically , not once , but for several known , but varying intervals of time , quickly succeeding each other ; so that whatever may be the intensity of the total daylight ( supposed during these intervals to remain constant ) , some one at least of the several exposed papers will possess the requisite shade .
This is accomplished by a duplicate arrangement of a clock and insolation-apparatus , by means of which disks of the constant sensitive paper are exposed each hour for successive known intervals of time , varying from two to thirty seconds .
After an interval of an hour , another set of disks are exposed for the same series of intervals , and these series of insolations are repeated once every hour during the day .
The mechanical arrangements for effecting this with accuracy are fully described in the paper .
On unrolling , at the end of the day , the strip of sensitive paper which has served for the exposures , black disks showing where the paper has been stationary for the hour are seen , and between each of these are found ten circles variously tinted , from that , probably , scarcely visible , which was exposed for two seconds , to that , perhaps too dark to read off , which was insolated for thirty seconds .
Amongst these , some one at least , will be found of such a shade as to enable it to be read off by the monochromatic soda-flame , on a graduated fixed strip , as described in former communications .
A new method of calibrating the fixed strips of standard tints necessary for these measurements is next described , and the question as to the possibility of preparing constant sensitive paper in long strips instead of in large sheets is next experimentally discussed , the result of the examination being that it is possible to prepare silvered paper in long narrow strips such as are used in Morse 's telegraph-apparatus , so that it shall throughout its length preserve the standard sensitiveness .
The time during which the disks of constant sensitive paper are exposed is next ascertained for each instrument by a chronograph .
During wet weather the insolator is covered by a semicircular glass shade , and the value of the coefficients for refraction and absorption due to this glass shade is determined .
The latter portion of the communication contains the results of a senes of comparisons of the curves of daily chemical intensity obtained ( 1 ) with the hand-insolator , and ( 2 ) with the self-recording instrument .
Comparisons of this nature were made during the months of May , un , and July , 1873 , by simultaneous hourly determinations in the neig our hood of Manchester according to both methods .
Of these observations , six full days are selected , and the tables and curves accompanying e communication show the close correspondence of both sets of observations .
The integrals of total chemical intensity for these days are also given , and exhibit as close an agreement as , from the nature of the expenmen s , can be expected .

