293 Report on the Total Solar Eclipse of 1911 , April 28 .
( Observed by the Expedition of the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee to Vavau , Tonga Islands , South Pacific .
) By the Key .
A. L. Cortie , S.J. , F.R.A.S. ( Communicated by the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee .
Received June 7 , \#151 ; Read June 27 , 1912 .
) [ Plate 10 .
] 1 .
General Arrangements .
The expedition to observe the total solar eclipse of 1911 , April 28 , was organised by the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee , the expenses being defrayed by the Government Grant Fund .
Of the few islands in the South Pacific crossed by the track of the moon 's shadow during totality , Vavau , one of the northernmost group of the Tonga or Friendly Islands , was the most suitable for observing the eclipse , the duration of totality being computed at 217 seconds , and there being a reasonable prospect of good weather .
The programme of observations consisted of photographs of the corona on a large and relatively small scale for coronal detail and extension of the streamers , and photographs of the spectrum of the corona and of the lower chromosphere .
For these purposes the expedition was furnished with a 4-inch photographic lens of 20 feet focal length , kindly lent by the Council of the Royal Irish Academy , and the 4-inch Dallmeyer " Abney " lens of 34 inches focal length .
For the spectrum of the corona Prof. Newall kindly lent the quartz spectroscope of four prisms , presented to the Cambridge Observatory by Major Hills , in order further to investigate the ultra-violet spectrum .
The fourth instrument was made up of a large 7-inch prism of 40 in combination with a 6-inch Dallmeyer portrait lens of 30 inches focal length .
This objective prismatic camera gave a short but very bright spectrum , 4*5 cm .
from Ha to H^ .
The intention was to investigate the red end of the coronal spectrum on dyed plates , and incidentally to photograph the flash spectrum .
Hie members of the expedition were Father Cor the and Mr. W. McKeon , from the Stonyhurst College Observatory , and Father E. Pigot , Director of the Observatory of St. Ignatius ' College , Riverview , Sydney , N.S.W. , who also acted as agent for the expedition in Sydney , in the preparation of huts to cover the instruments , and in the gathering of materials for building the piers for the foundations .
The Admiralty gave instructions that VOL. lxxxvii.\#151 ; a. x 294 Rev. A. L. Cor the .
Report on the [ June 7 , H.M.S. " Encounter " should convey the observers and the instruments from Sydney to Vavau and back , and that every assistance should be rendered to the expedition in the erection of the instruments and in the observations .
The expedition is greatly indebted to Captain Colomb , and to the officers and men of the " Encounter , " for their enthusiastic co-operation in the work of the expedition .
The Stonyhurst observers left Tilbury , with the instruments , on board the Orient Line R.M.S. " Otway , " on February 3 , and arrived at Sydney on March 16 .
The " Encounter " sailed from Sydney on March 25 and arrived at Vavau on April 2 .
2 .
Erection of Instruments .
All the cases containing the instruments were landed ashore by April 5 , and a clearing was made of dense undergrowth and of some coconut palm trees on the space reserved as a coaling ground by the Admiralty .
The co-ordinates of the observing station are approximately longitude 173 ' 59*4 ' W. , latitude 18 ' 40'5 ' S. Two expeditions , namely , that organised by the Joint Permanent Committee , and that from the Solar Physics Observatory under the leadership of Dr. Lockyer , occupied adjoining stations , and we are considerably indebted to Mi1 .
Brooks , of Dr. Lockyer 's party , for determining the meridian of all our instruments .
Fortunately the weather remained fine until the evening of April 10 , by which date the sailors had cleared the ground , had made concrete bases for the mounting of the ccelostats , and had assisted in the considerable progress which had been made in the erection of the instruments .
After that date , until and including the day of the eclipse , the weather was broken , with at times torrential showers of tropical rain .
The Coronagraphs.\#151 ; -These two instruments of long and short focal length were mounted side by side , horizontally , so that the prolongations of their axes were in the azimuth of sunset , 14 ' 47 ' N. of W. , the azimuth of the sun at totality being *49 ' E. of N.,.and its altitude 43 ' .
Exact focussing was secured by a series of photographs of sunspots taken during the days preceding the eclipse .
The best images in the 20-foot coronagraph were secured with a diameter of the sun 's image of 2-J^ inches .
The camera body was made in sections of zinc , gradually increasing in cross section so as to fit a camera bellows with rack-and-pinion adjustment , carrying plate-holders 10 x 8 inches .
For stability the camera was mounted on a long trestle table , secured by battens , the ends of the trestles being sunk several inches in the ground .
Deformation of the images on the ground-glass screen was caused by convection currents , due to unequal heating of the sections'of the long zinc 1912 .
] Total Solar Eclipse 1911 , April 28 .
295 tube .
This was altogether remedied by protecting the whole instrument from the direct rays of the sun by a roofing of palm-leaf thatch , and by hanging matting from the flat roof on the sunward side .
In addition the lens end of the camera had a double awning over it .
Fortunately , the soil was a rich loam without any dust , and as the centres of the lenses were raised 4 feet 3 inches above the level of the ground , and the ground was covered with loose palm leaves , the effect of radiation from the ground was practically eliminated .
The two coronagraphs were supplied with light from the mirror of a 16-inch ccelostat , mounted solidly on a box filled with coral and earth , which was itself mounted on a concrete pier .
The driving clock stood on a separate pillar .
One weight of 24|- lb. sufficed to drive it , the position of fall on a tall upright , which corresponded to the best rate , being found by repeated experiments .
The ccelostat was placed in position and its polar axis adjusted for latitude by the ordinary methods , frequently described in former eclipse reports .
An Abney level is a most useful adjunct to the instrument , especially so in cases when there is no attached theodolite .
The 20-foot coronagraph was under the charge of Mr. W. McKeon , S.J. , assisted by Mr. Baker , gunner , who made the exposures , and three stokers to hand and take plate-holders , and to record exposure times .
Lieutenant Elmsley operated the 34-inch coronagraph , and he was assisted by four stokers .
The 16-inch ccelostat was under the charge of Chief Engine-room Artificer Langhorn , who spent much time in remedying defects in the instrument , in contriving mechanical devices for its stability , and in regulating the clock .
The following programmes for exposures during totality were carried out .
The 20-foot Coronagraph .
Number of slide .
Plate .
Speed number ( H. and D. ) .
Time by eclipse clock .
Exposure .
Result .
1 f.g.o. 50 217\#151 ; 215 secs .
2 Blank .
2 f.g.o. 50 200\#151 ; 195 5 yy 3 n.f. 200 185\#151 ; 170 15 4 n.f. 200 160\#151 ; 140 20 5 n.f. 200 130\#151 ; 80 50 6 At n.f. 200 65\#151 ; 40 25 Weak impression .
/ 8 f.g.o. f.g.o. 50 50 30\#151 ; 25 15\#151 ; 13 5 2 n a a a 296 Rev. A. L. Cortie .
Report on the [ June 7 The 34-inch Coronagraph .
Number of slide .
Plate .
Speed number ( H. and D. ) .
Time by Eclipse clock .
Exposure .
Result .
1 f.g.o. 50 217\#151 ; 215 secs .
2 Faintest impression .
2 f.g.o. 50 200\#151 ; 196 4 3 n.f. 200 180\#151 ; 165 15 Blank .
4 n.f. 200 150\#151 ; 130 20 5 n.f. 200 115\#151 ; 75 40 Faint impression .
6 n.f. 200 65\#151 ; 40 25 Strong impression .
7 f.g.o. 50 30\#151 ; 24 6 Faintest impression .
8 f.g.o. 50 10-7 3 Faint impression after totality .
The letters f.g.o. stand for Imperial fine grain ordinary plate , and n.f. for Imperial ortho-chromatic non-filter plate .
For the purpose of orientation a double exposure of the partial eclipse was made on a single plate shortly after totality .
The Prismatic Camera and Associated Instruments.\#151 ; These instruments were under the charge of Father Pigot , who was assisted by Engineer-Lieutenant McEwan , who operated the exposures for the prismatic camera , Chief Petty Officer Eeid , three stokers and one seaman .
Father Pigot determined the deviation by the prism at when placed horizontally to be approximately 28*5 ' .
Dr. Crommelin had kindly worked out that the point of second contact on the sun 's image seen in the coelostat mirror was 34 ' 45 ' to the left of the vertex , when viewed from the side away from the coelostat , and the corresponding position of third contact 171 ' to the right of the vertex .
These positions would have been extremely awkward for obtaining symmetrical and concentric arcs in the flash spectrum .
The instrument was therefore rigidly fixed to the top of a table , the legs of which were sunk in the ground , and tilted through an angle of 55 ' .
This was effected by hinging the lid of the table and lifting the further edge by means of two iron rods with rough screw adjustment .
This diminished the deviation at by the cosine of the angle of tilt , so that it was reduced to 16 ' 287 .
The azimuth of the axis of the telescope , owing to the deviation of the prism , was 13 ' 6 ' N. of W. Two subsidiary instruments were placed on the tilted lid of the table , a grating camera made up of a Thorp replica 2 x 1*5 inches ruled surface , 14,438 lines to the inch , placed in front of the front combination of a portrait lens 2*3 inches clear aperture and 30 inches focal length ; and a Hilger one-prism spectroscope , the prism being replaced by a similar Thorp transmission grating .
The image of the sun was focussed on the slit of this latter instrument by means of a long-focus telescope lens lent by the captain of The " Encounter .
" Its function was intended to be to give independent 1912 .
] Total Solar Eclipse of 1911 , April 28 .
signals for the flash spectrum at the beginning and end of totality .
Besides exposures on the flash spectra , three exposures for the spectrum of the corona were planned on Wratten and Wain wright 's panchromatic plates , the first for 30 seconds from count 205 to 175 seconds , the second of 90 seconds at mideclipse from 170 to 80 , and the third of 55 seconds from 75 to 20 .
A 12-inch coelostat , under the charge of Chief Engine-room Artificer Firth , supplied a beam of light to the three instruments .
The whole installation was conveniently covered by a tent , 12 x 6 feet , rising 8 feet 2 inches to the top of the gable .
Waterproof material hung in sections over it , and the flaps could be raised when observations had to be made .
The Quartz Spectroscope.\#151 ; This instrument has been freely described in the eclipse reports of former observers .
The adjustments finally adopted , after considerable preliminary experimental work at Stonyhurst , were substantially the same as those made by Dr. Dyson in Sumatra in the eclipse of 1901 , * except that the prisms were at minimum deviation at \3570 .
The object glass was focussed for X 3400 approximately , and the image on the slit , visually out of focus , was viewed by an opal glass kindly lent by Dr. Dyson .
The spectrum was in good focus for about three inches from \ 4000 to X 3300 .
The light was supplied by a 12-inch silver-on-glass mirror mounted in the meridian as a heliostat .
As silver absorbs violet light a speculum-metal mirror would have been preferable .
The spectroscope was placed horizontally on a table , and the quartz 5-inch object glass on a tripod stand .
The whole instrument was covered by a tent similar in construction to that described * above .
Father Cortie took charge of the instrument , assisted by Mr. Bright , torpedo gunner , to whom was entrusted the delicate operation of placing the sun 's image in the proper positions on the slit for the first and second flash , and for the coronal spectrum , on which one long exposure was to be made .
Three stokers also assisted , and the heliostat was under the charge of Stoker Petty Officer Ash .
Unfortunately , clouds spoiled all the exposures on the day of the eclipse .
There is nothing on the plates , except an impression of continuous spectrum at second contact .
Even had the wmather been fine , the atmosphere was so humid that it is doubtful whether there would have been many ultra-violet lines recorded .
Frequent drills for all the observers were held on the five days preceding the eclipse , under the general command of Captain Colomb .
3 .
Day of the Eclipse and After .
The fine weather of our first week at Vavau gave place on April 10 to bioken weather with heavy showers nearly every day .
The mornings were * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 69 , p. 245 .
Rev. A. L. Cortie .
Report on the [ June 7 , generally fine at about the time of eclipse .
On April 26 a fresh S.E. breeze brought up a new development , in the formation of thick and extensive cirrus clouds .
On April 28 ( we reckoned the civil day by Sydney time ) there was much cloudiness , which persisted during the night , and into the early morning of the 29th .
The sky cleared just before first contact , and remained beautifully clear , with , however , passing cumuli , during the earlier phases of the partial eclipse .
As totality approached dense cirro-stratus formed over the partially eclipsed sun .
These clouds were purely local , as going north the weather conditions improved , being good for M. Stefanik at the Catholic Mission compound ; better for the Australians in their camp near Neiafu , and best for Mr. Worthington , removed some 500 yards from the Australians .
From the deck of the s.s. " Boveric , " anchored off the wharf at Neiafu , some two miles distant , a perfect view of the eclipse was obtained .
The local clouds at the British station were due to the fall in temperature , and the consequent condensation of the aqueous vapour , conditioned by the proximity of an eminence which deflected the wind and prevented it blowing the clouds away .
The total phase commenced about 20 seconds before the predicted time , an experience which was corroborated at the Australian station .
The clouds cleared somewhat towards the end of totality , some 90 seconds approximately .
Through a veil of thin cirrus a typically minimum corona appeared , the extension being greatest in the N.E. quadrant , and of about one lunar diameter .
Around the moon 's limb was a bright ring , which would have been very bright in a clear sky .
Just before the sun 's limb appeared , a beautiful red prominence was seen , almost at the exact angle of third contact from the N. point , which shone out like a vivid glow lamp .
During totality the light scattered by the clouds rendered the use of lamps unnecessary .
A loud chorus of chirping crickets , as at the approach of nightfall , was raised and continued during totality .
A Kanaka gave a howl and ran away frightened into the bush .
But there was no noise from the Tongans , the native governor having considerately given orders that silence was to be maintained , and that no fires were to be lighted so that there should be no smoke .
Mr. McKeon commenced developing the plates the same night , when it was comparatively cool , at the Catholic Mission School .
But as the conditions for working were not very satisfactory , the plates still undeveloped were kindly finished on the following night by Mr. Baker , the official photographer of the Australian expedition .
The instruments were all dismounted and packed on board the " Encounter " by May 2 , and we sailed for Suva , Fiji , on the 4th , arriving May 6 .
We sailed for Sydney on May 11 , which was reached on the 17th .
Commander Mellor , who had been indefatigable in all arrangements with regard to the 1912 .
] Total Solar Eclipse 1911 , April 28 .
299 expedition , superintended the landing of the instruments .
They were transhipped to the Orient liner " Orontes , " which sailed from Sydney on June 10 and arrived at Tilbury , July 23 .
4 .
Results .
Under the untoward circumstances narrated above the results obtained are very meagre .
With the 20-foot coronagraph two plates show the lower corona in the immediate neighbourhood of the moon 's periphery .
The first was exposed from 45 to 20 seconds , approximately , before the end of totality , the allowance being 20 seconds difference from the recorded time , and the second from 10 to 5 seconds .
There is a very fine bank of prominences from position angle 240 ' to 258 ' on the latter photograph , covering the position of third contact .
Several other small prominences appear on the two plates .
The following are the angles:\#151 ; N umber .
Plate 6 .
Plate 7 .
1 189 ' 187\#151 ; 192c 2 210 210 3 213 4 247 240 I 5 254 [ 6 256 258 J 7 261 8 287 288 9 299 300 In addition , both plates show a distinct brightening in the lower corona at position angle 50 ' on the E. limb , evidently the base of a bright streamer .
With the 34-inch coronagraph one fairly good impression of the corona was obtained , on a plate exposed between 45\#151 ; 20 seconds before third contact .
On this photograph the corona extends about one-half a lunar diameter on the E. limb , and barely that extent on the W. limb .
The lower corona is very bright , and several polar rays are discernible .
A reproduction of the photograph appears with this report ( Plate 10 ) .
Only one of the exposures for the spectrum is of any value , and that was secured just before , and at the time of , the second flash , with the prismatic camera .
The plate was to have been exposed from 75 to 20 seconds for the coronal spectrum ; it was really exposed , owing to the eclipse beginning before the predicted time , from 55 to the end of totality , and so caught the second flash .
The hydrogen series from Ha to 110 is impressed on the plate , on a strong continuous background which extends between the approximate limits A. 7065 and X 3700 , the portion from the red end to the K line being 300 Rev. A. L. Cortie .
Report on the [ June 7 in good focus .
It is a very dense negative and it is difficult to make measures on it .
There are seven lines beyond IIa in the red , including the two helium lines X 7065'5 and X 6673 3 , and about twenty other lines between Ha and Hp .
Under the conditions of exposure these may be taken to be the strongest lines in the chromospheric spectrum .
There is a suspicion also of the presence of some purely coronal lines .
This plate will receive a more careful examination later on .
5 .
Conclusions .
The corona of 1911 was of a markedly minimum type , flattened at the poles , and with the wings confined to middle solar latitudes .
It occurred at a period of very low spot activity , the mean daily disc area of sunspots , in terms of the 1/ 5000 of the visible surface , being for the year , from the Stonyhurst drawings , 0-3 ; a drop of over 83 per cent , on the number for the preceding year .
The month of April was by far the most active of the year , the mean daily number rising to 1'3 .
The actual maximum area of spotted surface for the year occurred on the day , and the day preceding the eclipse .
The spots furnishing this ai'ea were on or near the central meridian on the day of eclipse .
Had they been near the limbs , it is not unlikely that arches would have been seen in the lower corona as in 1901 .
But , in fact , it was absolutely uniform , without any structure whatsoever .
Although the eclipse took place in a year of very few sunspots , yet the actual minimum was probably about a year later .
A considerable and sympathetic reduction in prominence activity had also occurred , and prominences in high latitudes were practically non-existent .
Mr. Newbegin 's results* for prominence observations indicate " that the points in latitude mainly affected were between 50 ' 7ST .
and 50 ' S. , and more particularly between 30 ' and 50 ' S. " These regions are precisely those marked by the two main wings constituting the " leather " of the " wind-vane " on the E. side of the solar corona .
The brightening at about 50 ' N. on one of the plates has already been noticed .
A. close connection between the streamers of the solar corona and the regions of prominence activity has often been suggested by eclipse photographs .
The position angle of the N. end of the sun 's axis on the day of the eclipse was 24 ' 50 ' W. of the N. point .
The solar corona is symmetrical about the axis .
'here is , too , a great similarity between the photographs of the corona : 18 ) 3 , July 29 ; 1889 , January 1 ; 1889 , December 21 ; 1900 , May 28 ; and 1911 , April 28 .
All are of the " wind-vane " type , associated with minimum periods of solar spot and prominence activity , but , if the * 'Journal B.A.A. , ' vol. 22 , p. 5 .
Cortie .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , A , 87 , 10 .
Sun'sAxis .
N n. s Sun 's Axis , s. Photograph of Corona , obtained with Dallmeyer Rapid Rectilinear Lens of 4 inches aperture .
Exposure 25 seconds through clouds .
Twofold enlargement .
1912 .
] Total Solar Eclipse of 1911 , April 28 .
301 photographs be compared among themselves , it will be noted that the arrow of the vane points E. and the feather W. in those of 1878 , 1889 , and 1900 , whereas the direction is reversed in the eclipse of 1911 .
We cannot conclude without recording with thanks the kind offices of the Astronomer Royal , Dr. Crommelin , Vice-Admiral Mostyn Field , and Prof. Newall , on behalf of the expedition .
Thanks are also due to Prof. He wall and the Council of the Royal Irish Academy for the loan of instruments , and to Dr. Lockyer , Mr. F. McClean , and Mr. Brooks , for much kind assistance .
In Australia , Father Pigot , Mr. J. Nangle , and Mr. Baracchi were most active in furthering the ends of the expedition , and much kind hospitality and assistance was rendered at Yavau by Fathers Mace and Deguerry .
We are greatly indebted to Captain Colomb , Commander Mellor , and the officers and crew of H.M.S. " Encounter , " for their valuable assistance , and , in particular , to Lieutenant Elmsley , Engineer-Lieutenant McEwan , and to Mr. Bright , Mr. Baker , and Mr. Head , our own particular assistants .
We cannot fail to recognise the kind courtesy of the Orient Steamship Company in carrying our instrumental outfit free of charge , and the ready assistance of the captains and officers of the " Otway " and " Orontes " in the careful landing of the instruments .
VOL. lxxxvii.\#151 ; A. v

