XX .
On a new Construction of a Condenser and Air-pump .
By the Rev. Gilbert Austin .
In a Letter to Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. Read March 11 , 1813 .
DEAR SIR , Woodville , Dec. 5 , i8 i. ACCORDING to your desire , I give you a description of my glass condenser , which , upon inspection , you were so obliging as to consider might possibly be found useful in some of those extensive and profound chemical researches , in which you are happily engaged .
In the year 1799 , I sent to the Royal Irish Academy the description of a little condensing instrument for the extemporaneous preparation of artificial mineral waters , which I stated would be more proper for nice experiments , if it could be made entirely of glass .
As this suggestion had not , to my knowledge , induced any one better qualified to construct such an instrument of that material ; pursuing my own ideas , I contrived the glass condenser herein described , the different parts of which , as to their fittings and application , that is the grinding of the barrel , the fitting and connecting of the flat joints and valves , I have been obliged to execute myself .
I have found this instrument to answer my immediate purpose very well , and have also applied it successfully to some other trivial chemical experiments ; but it has for a considerable time ( ( on account of my other avocations ) remained neglected , and would have continued so to remain , had not you given me hopes that it might be admitted to a place in your laboratory .
It was my wish , in the construction of this instrument , to have made the piston of glass only , without any packing of flax or thread for fitting it to the barrel ; but I have not ventured to attempt so much .
And perhaps as the packing is only a very small ring of a known substance , and as that may be varied at pleasure , by using for the purpose silk , or wool , or leather , or elastic gum , the effect in any experiment may be easily appreciated .
The water which lubricates the barrel , and with which the joints are wetted in the first instance only ( for the permanent junctures require no second wetting , but remain perfect for any length of time ) may require also to be taken into the account , and if on occasion it should be thought preferable , oil may be used in the place of water .
Should it however appear to you , that the want of a piston of glass , which should act without the addition of any foreign substance , is an important defect , you may possibly get one executed perfectly by some of those ingenious and excellent artists who are to be found in London .
You will probably also improve on the form and construction of this first instrument ( as far as I know ) made of glass for the purposes mentioned .
I have myself partly executed another of more general application on similar principles , of which , with your kind permission , I shall give you an account , as soon as I have completed it .
The great impediment to the forming of pneumatic instruments of glass , appears to me to have arisen from the difficulty of making the necessary joinings , in such a manner as to be capable of sustaining very considerable pressure , to be easily MDcccxIII .
U 139 disunited or connected , as occasion might require , and to be perfectly air tight .
The conical junctures hitherto used , do not bear much pressure , and are objectionable in other respects : I have therefore formed my joints of plane surfaces , and find them as perfect , as permanent , and as easy in application as I can desire .
For the construction of these joints , it is necessary that the glass vessels , or pieces to be connected , should be so formed that the part where they are to be joined should admit of having a broad projecting ring cast upon it .
The ring should be formed by the glass-blower , as truly square and flat as convenient .
The face is then to be ground ( but not polished ) perfectly plane , and then it will of course fit any other plane surface ; -a great convenience on many occasions , and an advantage peculiar to the flat joint .
The connecting pieces , or collars for the joints , are formed of a flat ring of brass for each , about half an inch broad , and above one-eighth of an inch thick ; this ring must be just wide enough to pass over the glass ring to which it is adapted .
Fig. 8 , a ( P1 .
XIV .
) A mahogany ring about half an inch thick , having the diameter of the hole equal to that of the neck of the vessel above the glass ring , is to be screwed to the brass , and then sawed into two pieces through its diameter , fig. 3 , b. These pieces are to be unscrewed , and applied to the neck , and they are then to be screwed to their places on the brass .
The compound ring , or collar , will be thus secured above the glass ring , and may be fastened to another collar , attached in the same manner to the piece to be joined to it , by four screws passing through both when the joint is intended to be in some degree permanent , as in fig. 3 , c. in which ( c c ) represents the glass pieces to be joined , ( aa ) the brass ring , and ( bb ) the ring of mahogany .
But if the joint require to be frequently separated in using the instrument , it may be applied moistened to the other , and pressed closely and perfectly by three milled-headed screws in the brass bridge , which bear upon the collar or ring of brass with their points .
The degree of pressure necessary is not to be very great , but it must be equably exerted and felt on each screw , in order that the surfaces should be applied truly , and that the joint may be air tighta very little practice will render this operation easy and certain .
The bridge with its screws , &amp;c. is represented , fig. 4 , a ( PI .
XIV.)-The plan of the bridge , and the end of the barrel with the valve in the piston , is seen at ( b).-(c ) is a stop to prevent the piece to be joined to the barrel from being pushed too far .
The glass valves are formed of plane convex lenses not polished , fitted to hollow spherical cavities , as in figs. 5 and 6 .
These particulars being premised , the description of the instrument will be more easily understood .
Fig. i , ( P1 .
XIII .
) Represents a perspective view of the glass condenser , mounted on its frame and stand .
Fig. 2 , ( P1 .
XIII .
) A side view of the glass pieces of the condenser , disencumbered of the frame and connecting collars .
The piston is seen outside of the barrel , and the iron sliding bar , with its arms which support the barrel , is represented with its clamps-but without the mahogany pieces .
The same letters refer to the same parts of the instrument in figs. 1 and 2 .
In figure 2 are also represented the valves in their placesthe joints connected by dotted lines are permanent .
Us 141 Figs. i and e. ( a ) The upper vessel which contains the liquid to be impregnated with the gas .
A safety valve closes its mouth , seen at large , fig. 5 ( P1 .
XIV .
) ( b ) A piece connected permanently to the upper vessel ; it carries the valve , which is so far below its surface as to allow it to rise a little in action , but not to turn over : the plane side of the lens is indented with a deep cross cut , to allow the gas to pass over it into the upper vessel , seen at large , fig. 6 , g. d ( Pl .
XIV .
) ( c ) The glass barrel having a broad ring on each end .
Length of the barrel 13 .
inches .
Diameter of the bore o. External diameter i.4 Diameter of the broad rings 2 . ?
( d ) The hollow glass piston having one broad ring next ( e ) , for the flat joint which connects the piston with it , and another ring , about four inches above this last , in order to secure it the better to the frame in which this ring and the piston are more than half sunk , and then covered over by a piece of mahogany pressing upon it with four screws .
The covered part of the piston is represented by the dotted lines near ( d ) in fig. 1 .
At the end of the piston are two small rings , to confine the packing by which it is fitted to the barrel ; and the extremity is ground into the hollow segment of a sphere , into which is fitted an unpolished plane convex lens , fig. 2 , and seen at large , fig. 6 .
( e ) The receiver , from which the gas is drawn up and condensed into the upper vessel ( a ) .
It is furnished with a ground stopper , which may be used occasionally as hereafter mentioned .
f ) The pneumatic trough placed on a stool under the receiver .
( g ) A retort , in which the gas is generated as usual .
( hh ) Two pieces of mahogany , touching the sides of the barrel , and in their length fitting between its rings , so as when raised .
or depressed , to move the barrel without shake , and supporting the platform ( i ) with its bridge , as seen at large , fig. 4 .
These pieces are held together by iron clamps hollowed , so as to admit the barrel freely , fig. 2 , k : they are clamped behind in the same manner , and then the barrel is secured by wedges in its proper situation , so as to be fixed perfectly parallel to the iron sliding bar .
From the clamps behind proceed two strong arms ( kk ) , fixed at right angles in the sliding bar ( 1 ) , which moves equably in the long brass dove-tailed groove ( m ) .
This dove-tailed groove is screwed to the strong upright pillar ( o ) .
By means of the handle ( n ) , which is fastened to the sliding bar between the two strong arms ( kk ) , the barrel , with its apparatus , the platform ( i ) , the brass bridge confining the upper vessel ( a ) , by the piece ( b ) , are alternately raised and depressed .
In this action , the barrel moves upon the fixed hollow piston ( d ) .
The gas is extracted from the receiver at every ascending stroke , and passing through the hollow glass piston ( d ) above its valve , which opens upwards , is forced at every descending stroke through the valve between ( a and b ) into the upper vessel containing the liquor to be impregnated .
Should more gas be forced into the vessel than the liquid readily absorbs , the safety valve at the top ( seen at large , fig. 5 ) allows it to escape .
Fig. 5 , ( PI .
XIV .
) is an enlarged view of the mouth of the upper vessel ( a ) , with the collar ( b ) on its neck , hollowed 143 into a spherical cavity at ( c ) to fit the spherical valve of glass ( d ) .
This valve is set loosely in the brass piece ( e ) , that it may , when pressed into the cavity , accommodate itself to its proper place .
The brass piece ( e ) has a long tail ( f ) , which passes freely through the milled-headed screw ( g ) , and is surmounted at ( f ) with a small button , with which the valve may be raised , and which prevents it from falling out , when the whole frame is detached from the collar ( b ) , in order to empty or fill the upper vessel ( a , fig. i ) .
On the stem ( f ) of the valve ( d ) , below the milled screw , a coiled spring wire is fixed , the pressure of which on the valve may be regulated by the milled screw .
The flanch of the frame ( h ) has notches cut into it , which fall into corresponding notches in pieces fixed to the ring of the collar .
The notches and the whole flanch pass under these pieces with a circular motion , and are thus secured till turned round in such a manner , as that the notches shall again correspond .
When the collar is not secured by the valve , it drops loosely down on the neck of the upper vessel ( a ) , as represented in the figure at ( x ) .
Fig. 6 , ( P1 .
XIV .
) an enlarged view of the hollow glass piston .
( a ) part cf the piston rod .
( bb ) two small rings to hold the packing .
( c ) the packing .
( d ) the valve , an unpolished plane convex lens , fitted to the end of the piston .
( f ) the plan of the end of the piston , the latter is placed on the plane side of the lens .
( eeee ) notches in the upper small ring of the piston , over which are passed crossed threads , in order to confine the valve ( f ) , and to prevent it in action from being carried off the end of the piston .
The notches are necessary to guard the threads from the attrition of the barrel .
144 __ ? ?
---______ _.i ... .___ ______J:_ -i XI X !
% 2z I. X , i _----i m ~~~~s ---=-----j &lt; .
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ... ... ... .__ I _1____ ______I_ __I___^ ____ -X- ?
--_ -------__ - .
I , s. i I\1 )Z ii ?
' l~ .t ; i\t:/ t '+ fFfa/ w : ' IZ7 ' ?
V^^^ / .2 ... ... ... ~Z ; ;i ' ... ... ... .
'j ^/ 10 I ?
, \q^,. .
_1 1 .
il ?
)j ?
~~~~~~~~~~~2 4/ / * t[r daAjxy 'm-XDIJ D 'D2c-W'sod O/ Fig. 7 , ( P1 .
XIV .
) ( a ) a glass vessel with only one aperture to be used instead of the upper vessel ( a ) when the safety valve is considered unnecessary .
For the same purpose the receiver ( e ) figs. 1 and 2 , may also be used occasionally , as all the joints fit each other .
( b ) a glass stop-cock to be joined occasionally by a pair of collars to the vessel ( a ) in this figure , or to any other at pleasure .
This vessel ( a ) , with its stop-cock being joined to the bottom of the piston ( d , fig. i. ) , and in the place of the receiver ( e ) may be exhausted if required .
But in order to apply the instrument to the purposes of exhaustion , the bottom of the piston should be set in a platform , and have under it a bridge reversed , similar to that represented in fig. 4.-If the instrument were so constructed , bent tubes with rings of glass and collars might be applied by their flat joints , and would answer for exhausting jars connected with them .
Fig. 8 , ( PI .
XIV .
) tubes differently bended , which may be connected at pleasure by flat joints , so as to form syphons of any size , and conducting pipes in any direction , and of any length .
I have to apologize for the minute particularity of this communication ; but as I wish artists to understand me perfectly , I have preferred to be rather prolix , than obscure .
I am , dear Sir , with high esteem and respect , your humble servant , GILBERT AUSTIN .
145

