On the Nerves ; giving an Account of some Experiments on their Structure and Functions , which lead to a new Arrangement of the System .
By Charles Bell , Esq. Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read July 12 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 398 .
] In this paper the author proposes to limit his inquiry to the nerves of respiration , comprehending under that term all the nerves which serve to combine the muscles employed in the act of breathing and of speaking ; and after showing that the simplicity or complexity of the nerves are as the functions or organizations of the parts which they supply , and that , however numerous and complex they appear in some parts of the body , they may nevertheless be divided into two distinct classes , by ascertaining what parts are necessary to life and motion , and what are superadded as requisite to higher and more complex enjoyments and actions ; the former class comprehending the nerves of the spine , the suboccipital or tenth , and the trigeminus or fifth ; and the latter the eighth pair , the portio dura of the seventh , the spinal accessory , the phrenic , the external respiratory , and the lingual ; Mr. Bell proceeds to a detailed account of these nerves , showing , by an examination of the nerves of the face , that the two sets differ in structure and sensibility as 154 !
well as in function , and illustrating his positions by a variety of experiments , which , with their results , are given at length in this paper ; and after showing the practical applications of which the investigations contained in it are susceptible , he concludes by observing , that a just estimate of their importance can scarcely be formed , till an analogous account of the nerves of the throat , neck , and chest shall be laid before the Society , which will show that in them also there are the same distinctions of structure and functions , and that the nerves of respiration may be distinguished and separated amidst the apparent intricacy of the general system , and that by dividing them , the motions of the several parts , which unite in the act of respiration , may be successively stopped ; while their other functions , dependent upon their other nerves , are continued .
By pursuing this investigation , the remaining parts of the nervous system are also much simplified , and the apparent confusion arising out of the crossing and re-union of nerves is thus shown to be for the purpose of associating the muscles into different classes , for combining them in subserviency to different organs , and placing them under the guidance of a sensibility more certain in its operation than the will .

