]\gt ; INDEX SLIP RAUBAUT , Arthur A.\mdash ; Underground emperature at Oxford in the yeal 1899 , as Determined by five Platium-R , ance Thermos .
Phil. Irans .
, , vol. 196 , 1900 , pp. Difusivity of Oxford Gravel .
RARBAUT , Arthur A. Phil. Trans. , , vol. 19 , 190 , pp. I 235 ] Undergroumd ) Oxford the 1899 , by Jive PlatinUm-resistance By tTHUR A. , D. : L. H. , F.Ii .
S. Iicccived litG 2 , 1900 .
[ PLATES 1 , 2 .
] Description of the and of Rcduction of of instrulnents with which the earth -atures given in this ) were observed , were five platinum-resistance thermonleters of the Calleudar and Griifitbs pattern , * made by the Cambridge Scientific Instlument Company .
These pul.chased by the late Mr. STONE , and were placed in position under his direction shortly before his death .
The method of platinum thermometry seemed to be suitable this class of work , on account of the immunity it enjoys from tain errol s attending the use of the -stemmed or spirit employed for underground temper tures .
A higher degree of accuracy might , therefore , reasonably ) expected , and the discussion which follows of the first complete observations at Obsel.vatory shows , I think , that this anticipation has been justified .
Some discrepancies between theory and observation no doubt ) pear , but they of a character which seems to indicate a difference between the assumptions on which the theory is based and the conditions actually prevailing in the stratum of gravel in which the thermometers are buried , rather than therlnometric rors the observations themselves .
The thermometers are inserted in undisturbed gravel , the first four one under the other , in a vertical plane beneath the grass of the south lawn , and wlthi a few feet of the Stevenson screen in which the dry and wet bulb , and the maxim mum and minimum , thermometers are suspended .
In order that the thermometers might lie in practically unbrokell grounld , the following method of placing them was adopted .
A pit was dug at the edge of the See the Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company 's " " Dcscriptive List of grass about 5 feet long by 4 feet wide .
One edge of the pit coincided with the edge of the grass plot , and the corresponding side of the pit was made as nearly vertical as possible .
Into this vertical face four iron tubes were driven horizontally , the tubes .
formed with spikes at their ends to facilitate this operation .
The tubes are 4 feet long , and into them the thermometers were inserted with the leads attached , the mouths of the tubes were sealed up with tow and red lead , and the pit filled in .
The first four thermometers were placed at depths of ( approximately ) 6 inches , 1 foot inches , 3 feet 6 inches , and 6 feet respectively ; but Mr. STONE soon saw the bility of placing another at a lower leyel , and intended to have gone to a depth of 20 feet .
But as water was met with at a depth of 10 feet 6 inches , he decided to place it just aboye the water level , at a depth of 10 feet .
This thermometer was buried , not directly under the four earlier ones , but in a separate pit at the other side of the Stevenson screen .
This was apparently done to avoid disturbing the leads of the thermometers which were already in position , but it would have been rather more satisfactory if all had been placed in the same vertical plane .
It is also , perhaps , to be regl.etted that one or two similar thermometers were buried to considerably greater depths .
The presence of however , complicated mattel .
S and introduced conditions different from those which prevailed in the dry grayel aboye .
It is not , for example , to be supposed that the thermal conductivity or the lsivity of permanently gravel would be the same as that of the material above it .
Hence it would appear necessary to put at least two thermometers below the permanent water-level in order to study the flow of heat under such circumstances .
Besides , it is highly probable that the gravel stratum is not very much tbicker than 10 feet .
Excavations in the neighbourhood show that the clay is likely to be met with at any depth below 12 feet the surface , and in this , of course , the thermal conditions would be likely to proye wholly different from those in the gravel .
actual depths of the various thermometers as measured in October , 1898 the were standing open to us to re-sta1ldardise the thermometers ) were as follows : \mdash ; Thermometel 1 2 4 5 Depth . . .
in .
lft .
in .
in .
These tbermometels , with the Callendar and Griffiths resistance box , which could be connected with each thermometer through a switchboard , had been set up as I have stated , shortly before Mr. death .
On my appointment to the post of Radcliffe Observer , I took an early opportunity of examining the apparatus , and partly with a view of familiarising myself with all its details , I proceeded to determine the comparative values of the coils , and to AS DETERMINED BY FIVE re-standardise a spare thermometer which was kept in the observing room for general purposes .
This examination led to the discovery of discrepancies in the readings of the which troubled me for a long time , and which necessitated a large number of experiments extending at intervals over the greater part of a year before they were traced to their sources and eliminated .
In this part of the work I have to acknowledge the very help and dvice of Mr. E. H. GRIFFITHS , F. S. , who was kind enough to come to on than one occasion to place his experience at our disposal , and who , at one the investigation , took the resistance box and spare thermometer to idgo to subject them to a prolonged examination in his own laboratory .
These discrepancies , though serious in view of the accuracy which we had reason to expect from the apparatus , were still small quantities confined one two tenths of a centigrade degree .
They were , for the most part , traced eventually to uncertainties in the contacts at the switchboard , and a want of perfect insulation in the older leads .
These consisted of four india-rubber covel.ed wires which , in the underground portion , passed through leaden pipes , but within the observing room were without the leaden covering .
It was found that these were susceptible to damp , and that the insulation fell away very rapidly when there was much moisture in the air , thus giving rise to very puzzling and troublesome discrepancies .
In September , 1898 , the switchboard was improved and new composition cable leads substituted , which extended without interruption from the thermometers right up to the switchboard .
Since these changes were effected the discrepancies have ceased to appear , except on one occasion ( viz. , October 27 , 1899 ) , when it was found that the short flexible lead from the switchboard to the resistance box was thoroughly damp .
On lighting a fire in the observing room to dry the covering of this lead , the irregularities disappeared .
Since that date up till the end of March of this year ) I have kept a light burning continuously in the room , to prevent the deposition of moisture , and have experienced no further trouble of the sort . .
The resistance box is in its general design similar to that described by Mr. GRIFFITHS , simplified to suit the particulal class of work for which it was intended .
It is provided with three principal coils , whose nolninal values , 40 and 80 box units respectively , a box unit being about .
There are additional coils , one for the calibration of the bridge wire , and another , which we have called the " " concealed coil whose value is about 240 box units , which was inserted for convenience to balance approximately the resistance of the thermometers at C. when the coil A was also in the circuit , so that the reading of the bridge wire under these circumstances might be as nearly zero as possible .
'Nature , ' November 14 , 1895 .
DR. A. A ItAMBAUT ODERGRO OXFORD On account of the differential character of the equation , ( p. 242 ) , the value of this coil does not concern us except in computing the correction for the temperature of the box , and approximate only is ' .
apparatus is provided with a slow motion contact-maker of Mr. HORACE and GRIFPITHS ' thermo-electric key .
* ' ture , November 14 , 1895 .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 184 , pp. 397-8 .
AS DETERMINED BY FIVE PLATINUM-RESISTANCE 2.39 The galvanometer microscope is placed on a window to the right of the resis ance box , in such a position that the observer can manipulate the commutator for reversing the direction of the current without removing his eye from the eyepiece .
The general arrangement of the apparatus is shown in fig. 1 .
To the right is the galvanometer and microscope ; underneath in front is the commutator , and behind it the contact key .
On the extreme left is the switchboard , and in the corner of the room is seen a small electric motor for stirring the oil in which the resistance coils are immersed .
In the standardisation of the apparatus the lnethod described by Mr. GRIFFITHS in ' Nature , ' of November 14 , 1895 , was in the main followed .
The temperature coefficient was determined by Mr. GRIFFITHS when the apparatus was under examination in his own laboratory at Cambridge .
Two separate determinations made in 1898 ( July 27 and August 8 ) gave the following results:\mdash ; Date .
Range of Temp. Temp. Coeff .
July 27 August 8 12 In the reduction of the observations , the value has been adopted .
The accuracy of this value has been borne out by subsequent observations in several different ways .
Thus , for example , the invariable steadiness in the changes of No. 5 , whatever might be the temperature of the box , indicated a high degree of accuracy in the adopted value of the constant .
For the determination of the coil values and the unit of the bridge wire scale , the following observations were made at the Radcliffe Observatory : \mdash ; 19.847 Means these we obtain , as in Mr. GRIFFITHS ' paper referred to ) mean box units .
and one scale division of the bridge wire is equal to mean box units .
We thus get the following table giving the correction for the particular arrauge meant of coils in use , in which the corrections have each been diminished by 20 simply for the convenience of having the nominal readings of the box approximately equal to the temperature of the thermometers:\mdash ; TABLE I.\mdash ; Correction for Coils .
The correction to the bridge wire scale is also deduced from the following table , the correction being always of the same sign as the reading of the scale:\mdash ; TABLE II.\mdash ; Bridge Wire Table .
We have next to correct for the temperature of the coils and bridge wire .
This temperature is read from a mercury thermometer which stands in the oil in which the coils are immersed , its stem protruding through the marble slab which forms the top of the box .
The oil in the box was stirred before each series of readings by means of a small electric motor .
When the observations were prolonged for any considerable time , as in the process of standardising , the oil was stirred at frequent intervals .
All observations have been reduced to a standard temperature of C. , as being about the mean temperature of the observing room throughout the year .
If denotes the observed resistance at any temperature , and the corresponding resistance for a temperature of the coils of C. , they are connected by the relation , AS DETERMINED BY FIVE THERMOIslETERS .
or adopting the temperature coefficient , , as determined by Mr. GRIFFITHS , .
In this expression is the total resistance in the circuit , and since this includes the resistance of the " " concealed coil we require to know approximately the value of that coil in the right-hand side of the equation .
This is , perhaps , most easily determined from the observations of the thermometers themselves at 10 C. and C. , combined with the constant value found by Mr. GRIFFITHS for the ratio of the corresponding resistances and Thus , if X be the value of this coil , that of the other ] in use and the bridge wire when the thermometer is packed in melting ice , and that of the coils and bridge wire when it is immersed in steam , reduced to mean box units at C. , then the total resistances in the two cases are , and , and if we take the ratio of these resistances to be as found by Mr. GRIFFITHS for the wire used in the construction of this instrument , then , and therefore values of X found in this way from the observations made on October 4 , 5 , and 6 , 1898 , for the purpose of standardising the thermometers , are as follows:\mdash ; Thermometer .
X. . . . . .
77 Mean For any arrangement of coils ( y ) and any bridge wire reading ( R ) we have therefore the total resistance in the circuit , , and the coefficient of in the correction for temperature is We thus find the following table for the two different arrangements which have been used in the observations:\mdash ; 'Nature , ' November 14 , 1895 , p. 45 .
VOL. CXCV.\mdash ; A. 2 I TABLE III.\mdash ; Coefficient of .
wire 5 The temperature on the platinum scale corresponding to a resistance , , is deduced from CALLENDAR'S formula , where is the resistance at 10 C. , and at C. , each of them being reduced to mean box units at the standard temperature .
From a very careful series of observations made at the Radcliffe Observatory on October 4 and 6 , 1898 , the following separate values of the zero points were obtained , each value being the mean of several closely accordant settings:\mdash ; Zero Points of the Thermometers .
Thermometer .
The temperature of steam was observed on October 4 and 5 , with the following results for the several thermometers:\mdash ; * ' Phil. Trans , vol. 178 , p. 195 .
AS DETERMINED BY FIVE PLATINUM-RESISTANCE THERMOMETERS .
Temperature of Steam .
To those who have naked platinum thermometers the discrepancies in the separate results for the p. 's of Nos. 3 and 4 may appear large .
It should , however , be pointed out that it was necessary to standardise these instruments while they were sealed up in strong brass tubes with heavy leaden-covered leads attached ; hence it was impossible to eliminate altogether the effects of conduction along these tubes , but for reasons given on p. 244 it was not considered necessary to take further precaution against the small errors arising from this cause .
In mining the zero points the thermometers were placed in a trough 3 feet long , and any error arising from this cause was very much diminished .
One of the most important considerations in connection with this subject is the degree of permanence in the fundamental points as determined at considerable intervals of time .
It was the occurrence of discrepancies between the values which I found in my first observations and those determined about a year and a half previously at the time that the instruments were set up , which induced me to have all the thermometers exhumed and to make a thorough re-examination of the whole apparatus .
This examination led eventually to my discarding the original leads , the insulation of which was found to fall off very much when they became damp .
Another series of discrepancies was traced to an uncertainty in the contacts at the switchboard .
In the original form the four steel prongs in which the fourfold lead from the resistance box terminates , were inserted into mercury cups into which also were led the four brass strips to which the thermometer leads were soldered .
By having the steel prongs amalgamated , and adding springs to keep each prong firmly pressed against the brass strips immersed in the mercury , a great improvement was experienced ; and , since this change was effected , we have had no trouble from the same cause .
It has been the habit , too , to make the observations from time to time with the four steel prongs in both positions , which affords a very satisfactory check on the character of the contacts .
Taking advantage of a visit from Mr. GnIFFITHS on October 6 , 1899 , I had thermometer No. 1 ( 6 inches ) dug up , and we examined its zero point after exactly a year 's continuous observations .
Determined in the same way as in tho previous year , the zero point of this thermometer was found to agree with the earlier value to less than C. , the actual values being In 1898 and in 1899 During the observations of 1898 , the temperature of the box ranged from to , whilst in 1899 it stood at .
The close agreement of these two results , therefore , taken at such an interval of time and at temperatures differing so considerably\mdash ; by about one-sixth of the whole range with which we are concerned\mdash ; affords a further confirmation of the accuracy of the adopted value of the temperature coefficient and the general consistency of the apparatus .
It is clear that in a series of observations , such as we are at present considering , in which the highest temperature does not exceed C. , any change in the zero point will have considerably more influence on our results than a corresponding variation in the boiling point .
Also the researches of Professor LENDAR , Mr. GRIFFITHS , Messrs. HLYCOCK and NEVILLE , and others , show that the change in the fundamental interval , even when the instrument is exposed to enormous variations of temperature , very slight .
Our experience with a sixth thermometer ( A ) , which is kept in the observing room , points in the same direction .
In this instrument the fundamental interval remained practically unaltered after the lapse of a year , the actual values found for it being In 1898 and in 1899 . . . .
On substiluting the values found above for and in formula ( a ) we obtain the following expressions for the separate thermometers , giving the temperature on the platinum scale corresponding to any reading Thermometer 1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
The expressions in brackets on the right-hand side are the corrections which must be applied to to obtain the temperature on the platinum scale .
They may be tabulated in a very simple form for each thermometer , so that the platinum temperature can be at once deduced from the reading of the resistance .
TABLE IV.\mdash ; Reduction to Platinum Scale .
AS DETERMINED BY FIVE PLATINUM-RESISTANCE THERMOMETERS , 245 A complete determination of temperature on the platinum scale by means of one of the sunken thermometers is , therefore , reduced to the following simple steps:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The balancing of the galvanometer and reading of the bridge wire scale ( R ) and the temperature of the box .
( 2 ) To is to be added the correction for the particular arrangement of coils used , from Table I. ( 3 ) The correction to reduce the bridge wire reading to mean box units , from Table II .
( 4 ) The reduction to standard temperature .
The quantity taken from Table III .
multiplied by gives this correction .
( 5 ) The correction from Table IV .
It only remains to reduce the temperature thus expressed from the platinum to the air scale .
The relation connecting these two , established by Professor CALLENDA is ( ) in which pt is the platinum temperature , the temperature on the air scale , and a constant .
For a completely independent standardisation it would be necessary to determine the resistance at some third known temperature in order to obtain the value of S , but the experiments of CALLENDAR and GRIFFITHS have shown that although the value of S varies from one specimen of platinum to another , it is a constant for any particular sample of wire .
References to the original papers bearing on this point are given in Mr. GRIFFITHS ' article in ' Nature ' cited above .
The value of S for the particular wire used in the Oxford instrument was determined at Cambridge to be If it were intended to employ the Oxford apparatus for the determination of temperatures over a very wide range , it would doubtless have been advisable to make an independent determination of the value of this constant .
Since , however , the range C. to C. will cover all the variations of earth temperatures with which alone we are here concerned , and since within that range the correction does not amount to as much as 0:3 , an error of even ( which is quite inadmissible ) in the value of S would not affect our results .
Writing in equation ( b ) , and remarking that since is less than , its square may be neglected , we find S/ 100 being written for * Phil. Trans , 1887 .
Cf .
the Report of the Oommittoe of British Association for ) the of Practical Standards for use in Electrical Measurements .
Br dford , 1900 .
[ September 16 , 1900 .
] We thus obtain the following table for the correction from the platinum to the air scale , for every degree of the former from to TABLE V.\mdash ; Reduction from the Platinum to the Air Scale .
The reduction of the observations is thus of a very simple character ; but it may be still further simplified , and the chance of arithmetical errors occurring in individual cases greatly reduced , if not wholly removed , by the preparation of a table giving the total correction to the bridge wire reading for each arrangement of coils , the arguments in each case being the bridge wire reading and the temperature of the box .
Of course , if a great variety of coils were in use , such tables would attain dimensions out of proportion to their usefulness , as it would be necessary to construct a special table for each separate combination of coils .
But in observations of underground temperature , the range of the readings of any particular thermometer is comparatively limited , so that only two different arrangements of the plugs are necessary , coil A serving for about eight months of the year , and coil coming into use for about four months in summer .
It is thus a simple matter to compute tables that will cover all cases .
Tables of this sort were prepared for each of the earth thermometers , from which the correction to the bridge wire reading , to reduce to the corresponding temperature on the air scale , could be obtained at one step by simple interpolation .
For some little time before and after the epochs at which the change from one coil to the other is made ( about the end of May and the end of September ) it is possible to read the thermometers with either arrangement , and thus a check can be imposed upon the general performance of the apparatus .
In 1899 the changes were made on June 1 and September 26 , and the following readings of the 10-foot thermometer , in which the changes are very slow and regular , afford very satisfactory evidence of the consistency of the readings .
AS DETERMINED BY FIVE PLATINUM-RESISTANCE THERMOMETERS .
May Coil A. June 1 .
) 2 975 Coil B. Sept. C. 1 29 .
Discussion of the Observations .
The first step in the discussion of the observations is to group them into monthly means , and thence to deduce the harmonic expressions which will represent the readings of each thermometer throughout the year .
* In this part of the work I have adopted the Fahrenheit scale , as the observations had already been reduced to this scale for comparison with our other meteorological results , and as the observations of the same kind at Greenwich and discussed by Professor EVERETT are expressed in the same scale , there seemed to be a distinct advantage in retaining it .
On account of the inequality in the lengths of the calendar months I have discarded them altogether , and , as far as possible , have divided the year into twelve portions which are alternately thirty and thirty-one days in length .
As the observations are taken only once a day , it is of course necessary to have an integer number of days in each division , but the following scheme makes the differences in their lengths as small as possible , and with one exception , that of January , alternately thirty and thirty-one days .
In Leap Year this exception would be remoyed by intercalating the extra day in January , instead of February .
*Professor W. TmOMSON , " " On the Reduction of Observations of Underground Temperature .
Soc. Edin vol. 22 , p. 409 .
'Greenwich Observations , ' 1860 ( cxciii .
) .
Professor EvERErr , ' Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edin vol. 22 , p. 429 , DR. .
RAIsIBAUT ON UNDERGROUND TEMPERATURE AT OXFORD Divisions of the Year .
For the sake of convenience , I have retained below the usual names of the months for these twelve divisions of the year .
A good deal might , I think , be said in favour of adopting these intervals for all meteorological returns where the means of daily observations are taken .
The monthly means so obtained for the five thermometers are given in the following table : Mean Monthly Temperature of the Ground at the Radcliffe Observatory , Oxford , 1899 .
The observations were taken within a short time of noon on every day throughout the year without exception .
They were for the most part made by Mr. AS DETERMINED BY FIVE TERS .
McCLELLAN in the ordinary routine , but during his cation , or on Mr. WICKHAM or Mr. ROBINSON took his place .
All three ) servers of skill and experience , and , as the results seem to show , the of able degree of precision .
These means were deduced from the observations as directly obtained without any modification or correction , other than those taken from the tables referred to above , except on one date\mdash ; October 27--when , as I have mentioned , the short flexible lead was found to be affected by the dampness of the .
in the This was indicated by a sudden change of about F. in eadiI l of the 10 feet thermometer , which , under ordinary circumstances changes so slowly and steadily , that its reading on any day might be predicted with certainty to within one-twentieth of a degree from the readings of two or three days On drying the lead , however , the abnormal readings disappeared by the next day , and the subsequent readings of this thermometer found to lie the same curve as before the discrepancy had arisen .
As the dampness of the lead only the reading of the box and in no way affected the thermometers themselves , we , therefore , able to take an interpolated value for the reading of No. 5 as a standard of comparison , and the difference between this and the actually-observed readings , viz. : , was added as a correction to all observations made on that day .
This particular case illustrates very well the protection which the readings of a deep sunk thermometer afford against sudden changes occurring unobserved in the apparatus .
The means are graphically represented in ; the daily for two periods of two months each are exhibited in Plates 1 and 2 .
These two periods have been selected , as the first includes the minimum the second the maxinlUll of the 10 feet thermometer , and both illustrate very well the steadiness the changes in the indications of this instrument , and exhibit also the nner in which both the amplitude of a wave is diminished , and its phase retarded in passing from one thermometer to the one below it .
In fig. 3 are given the mean monthly temperature gradieuts beneath the surface , deduced from the same figures .
The harmonic expression to represent the temperature of any particular thermometer throughout the year will be .
( ) or \amp ; c. . . . . .
( d ) where denotes the time represented as the ion of a year , and is equal to Fig. 2.\mdash ; Mean Monthly Temperature of the Ground , 1899 .
AS DETERMINED BY FIVV PPLATINU-RESISTANCE THERMOMETERS .
2 .
2 DR. A. A. hlBAUT ON GROI ) TEMPERATURE AT OXFORD From the monthly means given above , we deduce the following:\mdash ; of the Coefficients .
In this table I have added , for comparison , the constants of the ourier series representing the mean temperature of the air in the evenson screen at a height of 4 feet above the surface , deduced , as has been the custom for many years at this Observatory , from observations of a standard mercury thermometer at 8 , noon , and 8 Some interesting results appear at once from this table .
As was to be expected the mean temperatures ( denoted by ) of the soil at all depth exceeds that of the air , although the differences are less than those deduced by Professor EVERETT from the Greenwich results for thirteen years .
It will also be noticed that the annual range of temperatures for Nos. 1 and 2 exceeds that of the air .
This is only true of the monthly means .
The range of the mean air temperature is considerably greater than that observed for any of the underground thermometers .
The maxima and minima are given in the following table :\mdash ; Thermometer .
ximn .
Minima .
75.4 75.29 70.03 65.28 Air 65 .
41.45 If the actual maximum and minimum for the air had been taken instead of the daily mean , the range would have been even greater .
I have not taken into account the terms depending on 3 .
For No. 5 this term is and in the case of the other thermometers they attain slightly larger dimensions ; 'Grcenwich Observations , ' 1860 ( cxciii .
) .
AS DETERbIINED BY FIVE -RESISTANCE ETERS .
but as we are here dealing with the observations of a single year , it would be unsafe to attach much importance to results deducible from the smaller terms .
The accuracy with which the observations are represented by the first three terms of the formulae is shown by the following table , which contains the differences between the mean monthly temperatures as computed and those actually observed : \mdash ; Comparison of Computed and Observed Mean Monthly Temperatures , C\mdash ; O. It thus appears that while the three deeper thermometers are fairly well represented by the formulae , there are considerable differences in the two upper ones .
This , especially in the case of No. 1 , is largely due to the diurnal variations which make themselves felt to a depth of about 3 feet .
The surface of the ground in the neighbourhood of the spot where the thermometers are sunk , being approximately level and the gravel being , as far as we know , of a fairly uniform character for a considerable distance in all directions , the flow of heat will be represented by equation . . . . .
( ) in which denotes the diffusivity of the gravel , and denotes the depth of a thermometer below the surface .
A solution of this is if and Hence Comparing this expression with the series ( d ) giyen on page 249 we have and For a second thermometer we have similarly and and , therefore , ( ) .
and Thus from each wave as observed at any pair of thermometers , we obtain two determinations of the value of , one from the diminution of amplitude , and the other from the retardation of phase .
In computing the value of I have expressed the depths in Paris feet , in order to bring out the results in terms of the same units as those employed by Professor EVERETT in his Reduction of the Greenwich Observations , those of Lord KELVIN already referred to .
The results are given in the following tables:\mdash ; Values of deduced from the Annual Wave .
From diminution of amplitude .
Thermometers From diminution compared .
of amplitude .
Thermometers From diminution compared .
of amplitude .
Thermometers From diminution From retardation compared .
of amplitude .
of phase .
No. 5 and No. 4 No. 5 and No. 4 No. 5 and No. 4 No. 5 and No. 4 No. 5 and No. 4 No. 5 and No. 4 No. 5 and No. 4 01202 Means .
Mean of both The values deduced from the half-yearly wave in a similar way , are as follows:\mdash ; $ 'Greenwich cions , ' 1860 ( oxciii ) .
AS DETERMINED BY FIVE PLATINUM-RESISTANCE THERMOMETERS .
Values of deduced from the Half-yearly Wave .
Mean of both .
I have omitted the results derived from the readings of No. 1 , as they seem too much affected by short period variations to afford reliable results .
This thermometer , too , is buried in a surface soil which is of quite a different character from the sandy grayel containing the other thermometers .
The values of deduced from the annual wave are , of course , much more trustworthy than those obtained from the half-yearly wave , and the larger discrepancies in the individual results from the latter are not surprising .
It is , however , satisfactory to note how these corl.oborate the others , showing , for instance , larger values resulting from the comparison of Nos. 5 and 4 than from that of any other pair .
This may possibly be due to a smaller value of for the stratum of gravelabout 4 feet thick which separates these two thermometers , than for the higher strata , or to the fact of No. 5 being buried at some distance ( 9 feet 6 inches ) from the vertical plane containing the other three .
Unfortunately , when the pits were open , no very critical examination of the character of the gravels at different depths was made ; but it is proposed to repair this omission when next the thermometers are dug up .
The excessively close agreement of the mean values of derived from the annual and half-yearly waves is very remarkable ( especially in view of the fact that the results are deduced from the obseryations of a single yeal and seems to indicate a high degree of precision in the observations .
The systematically larger values found from the diminution of amplitude , as compared with those deduced from the retardation of phase must be traced to some other cause , and may possibly be due to the proximity of the Observatory building , the south front of which is situated at a distance of 36 feet from the thermometers .
The temperature of the ground beneath the buildings would in all probability be different from that at an equal depth beneath the exposed surface .
There would , Dli .
A. A. RAhIBAUT ON UNDERGROUND TEMPERATURE AT OXFORD therefore , be a tran sfer of heat which would render equation ( e ) no longer strictly applicable .
A solution on the hypothesis that the heat which is conducted in this way may be represented by leads to the two values from the annual wave , and from the half-yearly way , a very satisfactory agreement ; but the values found for on the same hypothesis , viz. :\mdash ; from the annual wave , and from the half-yearly wave , differ too much to admit of any confidence in this additional term as representing the exchange of heat .
We cannot , however , be much in error in taking as the value of for the grayel in which the thermometers are sunk .
The value of the same quantity as found by Professor EVERETT from the Greenwich Observations was 0.09175 , and for the three stations at Edinburgh , from Professor FORBES ' observations , Lord KELVIN obtained , Calton Hill , trap rock .
Experimental Garden , sand .
1098 , Craigleith Quarry , sandstone 06744 .
the equations ( f ) we find from each thermometer a value of the amplitude and of the retardation of phase of each wave at the surface .
oting the amplitude of the annual wave at the surface by , we have Substituting the values of and for each thermometers 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 , we get four separate values of .
These are Thermometer .
Mean amplitude of annual wave at surface .
*Cf .
TETELET , ' Annals de l'Observatoire Royal de Bruxelles , ' tome , 1845 , p. 110 .
AS IINLD By FIVF Similarly , for the half-yearly way , we find Thermometer .
amplitude of wave at Putting these values in the first of equations we determine the value of corresponding to a given value of or the ) at which amplitude of wave is reduced to any given value , on the ) that conditions ) iling bove 1 feet remain unchanged at greater ) Although theoretically there is no invariable layer so equations pplicable , still we may consider that all annual variation of F. is th can be certainly detected .
The stratum , therefore , at which the amplitudeA of the ) way is reduced to may to all intents and purposes be considered For this depth we have the modulus of lnlO logarithms ) , and therefore Thus we find as the deptb at which the ) of wave is rednce to French feet glish feet , and similarly for the half-yearly wave , French feet feet .
The pths at which the annual and half-yearly reduced to amplitude of F. are found in a similar way to be 43 and feet respectively .
This paper deals with the observations of a single year , the results accordingly exhibit discrepancies between theory and which are less than might have been expected , are ( rreater than one ) like to see .
These discrepancies are due partly to the the ) ) clre not strictly of a ) eriodic character as the theory ) , be expected to be diminished in the mean of a ) of , and ) to irregularities , physical and formal , in the surface .
The other source of irregularity considered by Lord in ) , referred to above , namely , thermometric errors arising the inty as tenlperature of the liquid in the long stems of the therlnonleters used in Professol , cxcv . .
A. A. RAMBAUT ON UNDERGROUNI ) AT OXFORD .
' observations , does not in this case apply , and if other errors peculiar to the platinum thermometers exist , they seem to be confined within much smaller limits .
In fact this mode of thermometry seems especially suited to the investigation of underground temperatures on account of its freedom from this source of error , and the convenience with which the observations may be made .
PLATE 1 .
DAILy READINGS OF UNDERGROUND THERMOMETERS .
March and April .
' 1899 .
Rambaut .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 195 , Pl .
2 .
DAILY READINGS 0F UNDERGROUND tember

