342 On the new Gas obtained from |_Mar .
19 , additional confirmation of his results .
I have found that when turacin is treated with strong sulphuric acid , the resulting turaco-porphyrin presents in the extreme-violet an intense absorption band , which in position and characters is identical with that of h sematoporphy rin , obtained by the action of concentrated sulphuric acid or pure hsematin hydrochloride .
In solutions of extreme dilution , this band occupies the space between h and H. If the solution be slightly more concentrated K is absorbed , and with increasing concentration of the solution the absorption of the ultra-violet extends more and more .
Dr. Archibald Garrod and Mr. Gowland Hopkins , who first brought under my notice Professor Church 's researches on turaco-porphyrin , have communicated to me the results of their own observations , which show that alkaline solutions of turaco-porphyrin exhibit , in respect to the absorption bands in the visible spectrum , slight differences from ha9matoporphyrin\#151 ; though the identity of the spectrum of acid solutions of the two bodies is complete .
The facts which I have placed on -record in this paper point , however , to the essential identity of turaco-porphyrin and hasmatoporphyrin , and when taken in connection with the identity of the ultra-violet spectrum of turacin , and of the acid haematin compounds , appear to me to establish that turacin contains the atomic group , which is the cause of the characteristic extreme violet and ultra-violet absorption exerted by haemoglobin , its compounds , and principal derivatives .
VIII .
" On the new Gas obtained from Uraninite .
( Seventh Note .
) Remarks on Messrs. Rung and Pasehen 's Diffusion Experiment .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , C.B. , F.R.S. Received March 14 , 1896 .
I pointed out in a previous communication* that , from evidence afforded by the behaviour of the lines under different conditions of the spark , the gas obtained from cleveite is in all probability compound .
Some time afterwards ( July 11 , 1895 ) Messrs. Rung and Paschen published !
the same conclusion , and , as a result of a diffusion experi-mentf described in their paper , they came to the conclusion that the gas giving the line D3 was heavier than the gas giving the line 5015 .
7 .
As they themselves , however , pointed out , the result was not final , because the pressures were not the same .
As it is important for stellar classification to settle this matter , I have recently made some experiments in which the pressures remain the same .
The experi* * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 58 , p. 193 .
t 1 Sitz .
der K. Preus .
Akad .
der Wiss .
zu Berlin , ' vol. 34 , 1895 .
J 'Nature , ' vol. 52 , p. 321 .
Problems in Electric Convection .
1896 .
] ments are not yet finished , but the first , which was made on January 22 , 1896 , seems to leave no doubt on one point of the investigation .
A Q-tube was taken , and at the bend was fixed a plaster of Paris plug about V5 cm .
thick ; in one of the limbs two platinum wires were inserted .
The plug was saturated with hydrogen to free it from air ; the tube was then plunged into a mercury trough , and fixed upright with the limbs full of mercury .
Into the leg ( A ) with the platinum wires a small quantity of hydrogen was passed , and as soon after as possible another small quantity of a mixture of helium and hydrogen from samarskite was put up the other limb ( B ) of the -tube , Immediately after the helium was passed into the limb ( B ) , spectroscopic observations were made of the gas in the limb ( A ) ; D3 was already visible , and there was no trace of 5015-7 .
This result seems to clearly indicate that if a true diffusion of one constituent takes place , the component which gives D3 is lighter than the one which gives the line at wave-length 5015'7 .
Although this result is opposed to the statement made by Rung and Paschen , it is entirely in harmony with the solar and stellar results .
In support of this I may instance that of the cleveite lines associated with hydrogen in the chromosphere , and the stars of Group Illy , those allied to D3 are much stronger than those belonging to the series of which 5015'7 forms part .
IX .
" Problems in Electric Convection .
" By G. F. C. Searle , M.A. Communicated by Professor J. J. THOMSON , F.R.S. Received March 16 , 1896 , ( Abstract .
) The paper contains an investigation into the distribution of electric and magnetic forces which are called into play when some electromagnetic systems are made to move with uniform velocity through the ether .
Maxwell 's theory is employed in obtaining the fundamental equations , and it is found that though the electric and magnetic forces , E and H , have generally no potential , still they can be derived from two functions ^ and Q ; the differential equations satisfied by these functions are obtained .
The equations are first employed to obtain the solution for a moving point-charge , and the result is identical with that obtained by Heaviside and J. J. Thomson .
The mechanical forces F and R experienced by a unit charge and a unit pole respectively when moving forwards with the rest of the system are next investigated , and found to have true potentials , ^ and Q , the same functions as those mentioned above .
These func-

