Experiments on the Influence of the Aurora Borealis on the Magnetic Needle .
By the Rev. James Farquharson , F.R.S. Minister of Alford , Aberdeenshire .
In Letters addressed to Captain Edward Sabine,.Sec .
R.S. Read January 28 , March 4 , and April 1 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 97 .
] In the first letter , dated from Alford , Dec. 15 , 1829 , the author gives a description of the instrument which was furnished to him by the Royal Society for measuring the variation of the magnetic needle , and also the magnetic intensity ; and of his mode of using it .
The needle was so delicately suspended as to render changes in the declination as small as 10 ' ' very sensible .
In his experiments on the magnetic intensity , the intervals of time occupied in the needle 's performing 50 oscillatiois , commencing with an arc of 12 ?
, were noted by a stop-watch , in which the stop , being applied on the balance , is instantaneous in its operation .
The watch is again released from the stop at the commencement of a new observation ; thus compensating , on the principle of the repeating circle , for any inaccuracy in the reading off , or any inequality in the divisions of the dialoplate .
The observations made on an Aurora borealis which appeared on the night of the 14th of December , are particularly detailed .
On that occasion , the disturbance of the magnetic declination was so great , and so frequently changing from east to west , and the reverse , as to leave no doubt in the mind of the author of the reality of this influence .
The needle , however , was affected at those times only when the fringes of the aurora were in such a position as to include the needle in their planes .
It appeared to him , also , that the side towards which the needle declined , was the quarter where the aurora gave out the most vivid light .
His experiments on the oscillations of the needle have not yet enabled him to determine satisfactorily , whether any change of magnetic intensity accompanied these changes of direction .
In a second letter , dated December 26 , he gives the results of later observations .
From a comparison of his own with the observations of the Rev. James Paull , minister of Tullynessle , he infers that the height of the particular aurora which was seen by them on the 20th , did not at its upper extremities exceed 4000'feet above the ground ; and is led to the general conclusion , that the aurora borealis is situated in the region immediately above the clouds , and therefore varies much in height according to the different states of the atmosphere .
He believes it to be an effect of the developement of electricity from the condensation of vapour .
The position of the fringes , which are constantly at right angles to the magnetic meridian , their progressive movements from the north magnetic pole , and their influence on the needle whenever they come into the plane of the dip , are all of them circumstances which establish the relation of this phenomenon to magnetism ; while they at the same time illustrate the intimate connexion subsisting between magnetism and electricity .

