158 On the Effect of High Temperatures on Radium Emanation and its Products .
By Walter Makower , Assistant Lecturer in Physics ; and Sidney Russ , Demonstrator in Physics in the University of Manchester .
( Communicated by Professor Arthur Schuster , F.R.S. Received November 10 , \#151 ; Read November 15 , 1906 .
) 1 .
The Rate of Decay of Radium ^Emanation at 1100 ' C. In a previous paper* it has been shown that the activity of radium emanation sealed in a quartz tube is temporarily changed by subjecting it for a short time to temperatures between 1000 ' C. and 1200 ' C. Prom the results obtained it seemed probable that this change was not due to any alteration of the emanation itself , but rather to a change of activity of one of the more quickly decaying products of the emanation with which it is in equilibrium .
It seemed , however , desirable to put the matter beyond doubt , and , at the suggestion of Professor J. J. Thomson , we have measured the rate of decay of the emanation when kept at a temperature of 1100 ' C. The experiments indicate that the rate of decay of the emanation is the same under these conditions as at ordinary temperatures , the activity falling to half its original value in 3'88 days .
This value is intermediate between that obtained by Curief ( 3-99 days ) and that given by Rutherford and Soddyt ( 3'71 days ) .
The method of measurement was the same as that employed in the previous research , S and a diagram of the apparatus used is reproduced ( fig. 1 ) .
In the present experiments , however , greater care was taken to Earth Fig. 1 .
* W. Makower , ' Eoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 77 , 1906 .
t P. Curie , 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 135 , p. 857 , 1902 .
J Rutherford and Soddy , ' Phil. Mag. , ' April , 1903 .
S Log. cit. Effect of High Temperatures on Radium , etc. 159 eliminate errors due to any change of sensitiveness of the electrometer which mfght have occurred during the 10 days over which the observations extended .
For this purpose the ionisation produced in the air contained in a cylindrical vessel by the rays ( \#163 ; and 7 ) coming from the quartz tube containing the emanation was compared with that produced between two parallel plates by a constant quantity of uranium .
Assuming that the radiation from the latter remained constant , it was possible to allow for any slight change of sensitiveness of the electrometer .
A small quartz tube was filled with the emanation from about 5 milligrammes of radium bromide , and then sealed off in the oxyhydrogen blowpipe .
After allowing the tube to stand for about six hours for radio-active equilibrium to be established , the activity was measured and the observations repeated at frequent intervals for four days .
The tube was then placed in a small nickel wire resistance furnace and kept at 1100 ' for one hour , after which it was removed for a few minutes , its activity again tested , and found to have fallen about 6 per cent. The tube was then replaced in the furnace , and tested once a day for the next four days by removing from the furnace for as short a time as possible , and measuring in the usual manner .
The whole operation could be accomplished in a few minutes , and only very slight errors can have been introduced by allowing the emanation to cool for this short time .
On removing the quartz tube from the furnace at the end of the four days ' heating , the activity was found to increase for two or three hours , just as when it had been heated only one hour , recovering to the value which it would have reached if it had not been subjected to a high temperature at all .
On subsequently heating the quartz tube for a short time , the emanation was found to have retained its property of apparently temporarily changing its activity .
Table I. Time in hours .
Intensity .
Log intensity .
Time in hours .
Intensity .
Log intensity .
0 185 7 2-269 118 -5 72 -1 1-858 13 3 157 -0 2-196 139 -25 58 -7 1 -769 24-0 140 -1 2-146 163 -5 50-7 1 -705 36 -0 135 -4 2 -132 187 -25 41 -8 1 -621 40 *5 134 *1 2 -127 187 -75 43 -76 1 -641 48-0 117 -4 2-070 188 -25 43 -38 1 -637 61 -25 114 -1 2 -057 190 -0 43 -6 1 -639 67 -6 109-1 2 -038 208 -5 37 -58 1 -575 72 -0 107 -9 2-033 214 -5 36 -15 1 *558 84 -8 88 -6 1 -947 228 -5 32 -55 1 -513 92 -25 94-1 1 -974 229 -5 30 -33 1 -482 93 -25 83 -5 1 -922 256 -5 26 -7 1 -426 M 2 160 Messrs. Makower and Buss .
Effect High [ Nov. 10 , The results are given in full in Table I , and shown graphically in fig. 2 , in which the ordinates represent the logarithms of the activity in arbitrary units , and the abscissae represent time in hours .
It will be seen that the points on the portion AB of the curve during which the emanation was at Time in Hours Fig. 2 .
atmospheric temperature , lie on a straight line parallel to the portion CD , during which the emanation was at 1100 ' C. On allowing the emanation to cool , the subsequent points taken lie on the straight line AB produced .
On again heating for an hour , the point G- was obtained , which lies on CD produced .
Since the rate of decay of the emanation is unaltered by high temperature , the change of activity observed when the emanation is heated must be due to some alteration in one of the more rapidly decaying products\#151 ; A , B , or C. To decide which of these products was affected by the high temperature , the following experiments were undertaken .
2 .
Effect of High Temperature on the Active Deposit from Radium .
The experiment consisted in collecting on two wires the active deposit from a considerable quantity of radium emanation by immersing the wires simultaneously in the emanation contained in a cylindrical vessel for three or four hours , the wires being situated along the axis of the cylinder .
An electric field was applied between the wires and the vessel , and the wires made the negative electrode , care being taken to expose the wire which was subsequently to be heated to a field of uniform strength .
In this way it was possible to make the wires sufficiently active for the purposes of the experi1906 .
] lemperatures on Radium , etc. meant .
The wires were then removed , and the wire to he heated , which was made of platinum , sealed up in a small quartz tube , and its activity measured before and after heating to a high temperature and compared with the activity of the other wire , which was of steel and which was kept at the ordinary temperature .
The heating was not started till at least 20 minutes after removal of the wires from the emanation , so that the quantity of radium A present was negligible .
In the first experiments exactly the same arrangement was used as in the experiments with the emanation .
In this way , however , discordant results were obtained , and it was found that the ionisation produced in the testing vessel connected to the electrometer could be varied by rotating the wire on its stand .
This change must have been due to a lack of uniformity in the deposit on the wire , so that in some positions the side with the greater concentration of activity was presented to the vessel in which the ionisation was produced , whilst in other positions the side with the less concentration was so placed .
As the rays coming from the far side of the wire had to traverse the thickness of the wire before reaching the ionisation vessel , this may well have given rise to the discordant results .
The apparatus was therefore modified , and the following differential method of measuring the change produced by heating the active deposits was found satisfactory .
A diagram showing the arrangement finally used is given in fig. 3 .
A platinum wire , 4 cm .
long and 0*3 mm. diameter , was sealed up in a V Earth Fig. 3 .
Messrs. Makower and Russ .
Effect of [ Nov. 10 , small quartz tube just wide enough to take the wire and just long enough to make it possible to seal up the tube without appreciably heating more than a very short length of the wire .
The wire was then placed in the wooden tube , A , 6 cm .
long , just wide enough to accommodate the quartz tube .
The thickness of the walls was 4'5 mm. ; * the wooden tube was covered with aluminium leaf , which was in metallic connection with a stout brass rod , r , passing through an ebonite plug which served to support the wooden tube .
The wooden tube could be placed so as to lie along the axis of a hollow cylindrical metallic vessel , B , closed at one end and enclosed in another outer metallic case , C , connected to earth .
Through the ebonite stopper , D , passed a brass rod , F , which was connected to one pair of quadrants of a Dolezalek electrometer , and which served to support the cylinder , B. The saturation current through the air in the space between the wooden tube , A , and the cylinder , B , gave a measure of the activity of the deposit on the platinum wire .
The steel wire , W , was mounted in a glass tube at the end of a rod , R , and at right angles to it .
By means of the screw , S , the wire could be brought nearer to the cylindrical metallic vessel , V , or withdrawn from it .
Along the axis of V ran a brass rod , P , insulated from it , and connected to the same pair of quadrants of the electrometer as B. The other pair of quadrants were permanently connected to earth .
The saturation current in Y served as a measure of the activity of the wire , W , and the guard ring , g , prevented errors due to leakage of electricity from the vessel , Y , to the electrometer .
A battery of 300 small accumulators was used to maintain the voltages on r and Y. The cells were connected in series .
The negative pole of the battery being connected to Y , the positive to r , and the middle cell to earth .
Since the wires , r and W , had been exposed to the same emanation for the same time and removed from its influence simultaneously , the activity of both decayed at the same rate .
The position of W was so adjusted that the saturation current in Y was nearly equal and opposite to the current between A and B. When this had been done , the electrometer showed only a very slight movement when the quadrants were disconnected from earth for one minute .
This gave a measure of the difference between the saturation currents * Wood was selected for this purpose , as its absorption for the rays from the active deposit is relatively small , and the walls could therefore be made thick .
In this way the tube could be bored out sufficiently nearly centrally to insure that rays of the same intensity came out uniformly in all directions from the active deposit inside .
With steel , which had to be made much thinner to let a measurable quantity of radiation pass through its walls , this was found to be difficult , if not impossible .
1906 .
] Temperatures on Radium , etc. in the two vessels .
The current through either vessel could also be measured separately .
As long as the quartz tube containing the platinum wire remained unheated , the balance was undisturbed , even though the quartz tube was removed and replaced ; this point-was tested several times in every experiment before heating the quartz tube .
But on replacing the quartz tube after heating it to a high temperature the balance was found to have been disturbed , thus showing that the radiation from the platinum wire had been changed .
Except in the case of one experiment , No. 5 , Table II , the radiation from the active deposit was less intense than it would have been if the heating had not taken place .
The results obtained are shown in Table II .
In Table II .
Temp , of furnace .
Percentage fall in activity .
Temp , of furnace .
Percentage fall in activity .
'c .
700 0 o p 1020 5-2 885 3 1080 8-7 900 3 1080 15 -6 935 11 1110 7-9 955 -3 1170 15 *4 965 3 1185 14 *2 1000 8-5 1250 8-2 each case the quartz tube ( or in the case of the lower temperatures , the glass tube ) containing the platinum wire on which the active deposit had been collected was kept in the furnace for five minutes .
Having tested the activity of the platinum wire after removal from the furnace , observations were continued to see whether the percentage difference of activity between the heated and unheated wire remained constant or not .
It was found that this percentage difference always diminished with time when the wire which had been heated was left at the temperature of the room .
From this it follows that the activity on the heated wire was decaying at a slower rate than that on the unheated one .
The result for one of the above experiments is shown graphically in fig. 4 .
Curve 1 gives the rate of decay of the unheated deposit on the steel wire ; the ordinates represent activity and abscissae time after removal of wires from the emanation .
Curve II gives the rate of decay of the deposit after heating .
Curve III has been calculated so as to make the percentage difference between the activity on the two wires constant .
It will be noticed that Curves I and II approach each other more rapidly than would be the case if the activity on the two wires were decaying at the same rate .
Messrs. Makower and Russ .
Effect of High [ Nov. 10 , Ti me in Minutes Fig. 4 .
Increasing the time for which the active deposit was subjected to the high temperature appeared to be without appreciable effect , the drop in activity being no greater when the time for which the quartz tube was in the furnace was increased from 5 to 15 minutes .
In Table III are given the percentage drops in activity under this condition .
Table III .
Percentage change Temperature C. of activity .
1080 ' 7-3 1050 ' 10-0 3 .
Discussion of Results .
The simplest explanation of these phenomena seems to be that radium C undergoes a sudden change when subjected to a high temperature , its activity being thereby diminished .
On the other hand , radium B is unaffected by this treatment and continues to supply C at the ordinary rate after removal of the wire from the furnace .
The activity of the deposit measured by the / 3 and 7 rays ( which are emitted by C and not by B ) gives a measure of the quantity of C present at any moment and , consequently , if radium C is affected by the high temperature , the sudden change of activity actually observed would be expected .
After removal from the furnace the radium C decays and is replaced by a new supply from B , being therefore produced 1906 .
] Temperatures on Radium etc. after removal of the quartz tube from the furnace .
The activity on the platinum and steel wires would therefore tend to become more and more nearly equal as time proceeds .
This is seen to be the case from the curves given in Tig .
3 .
4 .
Summary of Results .
( 1 ) The change in activity noticed when radium emanation is subjected to a high temperature is not due to any alteration in the emanation itself , since its time period is unaltered when it is maintained at a temperature of 1100 ' .
( 2 ) The change is due either to a change in radium B or C since the activity of a mixture of these two substances can be changed by heating .
( 3 ) The change is probably due to some influence of temperature on radium C. This conclusion is in agreement with the statement made by Curie and Danne.* We are indebted to the Government Grant Committee for placing a grant at our disposal for the purpose of this research .
\_Note added January 25 , 1907.\#151 ; Since communicating the above we learn that Dr. Bronson has carried out some interesting experiments on the effect of high temperatures on the activity of radium , which appear at first sight difficult to reconcile with those contained in this paper .
As a result of his experiments , he concludes that there is no change of activity in radium , even when exposed to a temperature of 1600 ' C. , and he also concludes that the change in the activity obtained when radium emanation is heated in a quartz tube and allowed to cool is only apparent ; the effect observed he ascribes to a preferential condensation of the active deposit at the ends of the tube used when the latter is removed from the furnace .
Now , although this is a possible explanation of the observed phenomena described in the first paper already referred to , yet it seems to be inapplicable to the present experiments , for the quartz tubes in which the active wires were sealed were so small that it is difficult to imagine that any change of distribution of the active deposit due to irregular condensation can have taken place .
Moreover , the experiment was so arranged that any such redistribution would have been almost entirely without effect on the results .
We have convinced ourselves of the correctness of this statement by using a wire ( sealed in a quartz tube ) shorter than that used in the experiments described in this paper , and shifting its position in the cavity of the central electrode .
A shift of the wire through half the length of the cavity * ' Comptes Bendus , ' vol. 138 , pp. 748\#151 ; 751 , March , 1904 .
166 Effect of High Temper azures on Radium etc. produced only a 12 per cent , change in the ionisation .
To account for the observed fall of activity on heating , by assuming a redistribution of the activity , it would therefore be necessary to suppose that the active deposit had been transferred almost completely from one half of the tube to the other , a supposition which seems very unlikely .
Moreover , turning the quartz tube upside down in the cavity of the central electrode after heating to 1000 ' C. gave no sensible change in the ionisation .
There are several important differences between the experiments made by Dr. Bronson and ours .
In the first place , Dr. Bronson heated radium itself , whereas we heated the active deposit when separated from radium and the emanation .
Although it is difficult to see how this circumstance can have affected the results obtained , yet it is worthy of mention .
A much more important difference lies in the fact that Dr. Bronson measured the activity of the radium while hot , whereas we always allowed the active deposit to cool before making measurements .
Now the activity as measured by the / 3 rays gives a measure of the quantity of radium C present , which in turn depends on the rate at which this product is being produced ; and since there appears to be no change in the time constant of any product preceding radium C , the activity as measured by the ( 3 rays will be unaltered if time is allowed for equilibrium to be set up between the various products present .
The quantity of radium C breaking up in unit time will simply be determined by the rate at which it is being formed , and this , as we have seen , is unaltered .
The radiation , as measured by the / 3 rays , will therefore be unaltered , except during the time taken for equilibrium to be established between radium C and the products from which it is being formed , after the change in the time constant , due to heating , has taken place .
Since we know nothing about the magnitude of this time , it is quite possible that no change would be detected if the radium were tested while hot , whereas if the radium were first allowed to cool , the change might be detected .
It is on this account that we think that the experiments of Dr. Bronson and our own are not necessarily contradictory .
]

