]\gt ; 240 Prof. Karl Pearson .
Note on Regression and [ June 20 , have been unsuccessful .
It is a hard , pale yellow , })rittle resin , nearly insoluble in water , light petroleum , and benzene , but ] olved by alcohol , etber , and cbloroform .
When heated it gradually softens , and is quite fluid at C. Croton-resin has neither basic nor acidic ties ; it may be boiled with a mixture of lead oxide and water without being appreciably affected .
Ebullition wit aqueous potash or soda gradually decomposes it , destroying its vesicating power .
The products of this action are several acids , some of which are members of the acetic series .
By oxidation of the resin with nitric acid a mixture of acids is obtained .
The constitution of croton-l.esin is therefore complicated , and its molecular formula wouId appear to be at least or .
Since it is not saponified by a mixture of lead oxide and water , and as no glycerol could be detected among the products of its decomposition by alkalis , it is not a glyceride , and as it does not react with hydroxylamine or phenylhydrazine or sodium bisulphite , ib is probably neither a ketone nor an aldehyde .
The evidence so far obtained points to the conclusion that the constitution of the vesicating constituent of croton oil is that of a Iactone or anbvdride of complicated structure .
VII .
' Note on and Inheritance in the Case of Parents By KABL PEARSON , Univel.sity College , London .
Communicated by FRANCIS GALTON , F.R.S. Received June 5 , 1895 .
Consider a popuIation in which sexual selection and natural selection may or may not be taking place- Assume only that the deviations from the mean in the case of any organ of any generation follow exactly or closely the normal law of frequency , then the following expressions may be shown to give the law of inheritance of population .
Let deviation of the father from mean of the total population of fathers , and the standard deviation of the total of athers .
Let and be the corresponding for the mother for the same ( or any other ) .
Let be the mean deviation of the oflspring ( fraternity ) due to fathers and mothers with regard to the same ( or any other ) organ , and let be the standard deviation of the lvhoIe offspring population .
If we are dealing with olfspring of one sex , both the mean and the standard deviation of the offspri11g may differ , owing to natura ] selection , by aIly amount from those of parents of the same sex .
1895 .
] in the Case of Parents .
241 Let co-efficient of correlation ( Galton 's function* ) for the two organs ( or same of the rent population , i.e. , is a measure of the amount of sexual selection between the parents of the population egard to organs .
Let -efficient of corrclation between fathers and for the organ ( or two organs ) under consideration , is a measure of the paternal inheritance .
Lct co-efficient of correlation between mothers and for the organ ( or two organs ) under consideration , i.e. , is a measure of tlJe mternal inheritance .
The value of is given by and the standard deviation of the nity due to parenfs and is given by .
Thus the distribution of fraternities is the same for all ; it depends , however , upon the strcngth sexual selection , and on the patcl.nal and inheritances for the community at large with crard to the under consideration .
The portion of regression due to either parent alone is not dependent solely on maternal or paternal ; it is influenced not only indirectly by sexual selection but directly by the inheritance from the other parent owing to the presence of the terms and .
Further , the greater the iability of one sex ( i.e. , the gl'eater or the less , other things being the same , the parent of that sex contributes to the inheritance of the offspring .
The above two formulae seem to embrace the chief laws of heredity in populations .
The whole of the constants involved can be found by comparatively simple easurcments , and , indeed , have been , to some extent , found in the case of man by Mr. Galton .
probahle elror of a determination of Galton 's metion where is { he total nmbel of corrclated pail s. Mr. Galton indly p at my his ' Family Factllty Records , ' I find that for is , as he supposed , small , .
But the probable error of the determination only ) is .
Hence the balance of probability is iu .
of a small amount of sexual selection as to height in human .
I hope to have sulficient data to confirm this result .
fhey do not seem , however , to fully justify his of the midparent .
I hope at a date to discuss its special limitations , e.g. , and differ considerably in several series of skull measurements with which I have had to deal .
242 L. Mond , W. Ramsay , and J. Shields .
[ June 20 , These results are taken from a longer paper on panmixia and regression , which ill-health has prevented my completing up to the present date .
VIII .
" " On the Occlusion of Oxygen and Hydrogen by Platinum Black .
I By LUDWIG MOND , F.R.S. , WILLIAM RAMSAY , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and JOHN SHIELDS , D.Sc .
, Ph. D. Received June 13 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) The authors describe somepreliminary experiments on the occlusion of oxygen and hydrogen by sponge and foil , which in general collfirm the results obtained by Graham .
At most only a few volumes of these gases are occluded by the more coherent forms of platinum .
After giving details of what they consider the best method of preparation of platinum black , they next describe some experiments which had for their object the determination of the total ntity of water retained by platinum black , dried at C. , and the amount of water which can be removed from platinum black at various temperatures in vacuo .
As the result of these experiments they that platinum black dried at retains in general 0 per cent. of water , and this can only be removed in vacuo at a ( about ) at which the black no longer exists as such , but is converted least partially into sponge .
At any given temperature the water retained by platinum black seems to be constant .
density of platinum black dried at C. is , or allowing for the water retained by at this temperature , The amount of oxygen given off by platinum black at various temperatures was determined .
Altogether it contains about 100 volumes of oxygen ; the oxygen b.egins to come off in quantity at about C. in vacuo , and the bulk of it can be extracted at 40 C. , but a red heat is necessary for its complete removal .
Small quantities of carbon dioxide were also extracted , chiefly between 100\mdash ; 20 C. In determining the of hydrogen occluded by platinum black the authors have carefully distinguished between the hydrogen which goes to form water with the oxygen always contained in platinum black , and that which is really absorbed by the platinum per se .
Altogether about 310 volumes of ogen are absorbed per unit volume of platinum black , but of this 200 volumes are converted into water , or only 110 volumes are really occluded by the platinum .
Part of it can be removed at the ordinary temperature in vacuo ; by far the larger portion can be extracted at about C. , but a red heat is necessary for its complete removal .
The amount of dro-

