]\gt ; 1877 .
] On Magnetic Observations at Kergueten .
III .
agnetic Observations at guelen By the Rev. S. J. PERRY , S.J. , F.R.S. Received March 15 , 1877 .
The ernmeut expedition to Jsland for the observation of the Transit of enus on December 8th , 1874 , presented a very able opportunit .
for the accurate of the magnetic elements of an nportant station in the Ocean , and one 11 hich will at most ited only distant for the purpose of scientific tions .
When , therefore , I heard of my appointment to that station , I at once brought the question of terrestrinl magnetism the notic.e of the Astronomer Royal , and he readily greed to my proposal of king t complete maguetic instruments to uelenb , and of ations that would not interfere the main object of our expedition .
in charge of the whole Kerguelen party of ervers , I could not expect to be able to devote time personally to the vork ; but the Rev. W. Sidgreal es , whom long experience , both the hurst atory and during our magnetic survey of France in 1868 and 1869 , made perfectly ersaut v all the details both of mentS and obSerl aionS connected with terrestrial etism , had already been placed on the staff of stronomical observers for Kerguelen .
The of very efficient observer being thus sectlred , the step to procure the necessary instruments .
Fortunately I enced no difficulty in this tter , as the authorities at Kew tely phced at my disposal a Jones unifilar and a dip-circle .
There was no question of the want of a good chronometer , the astronomers were to be supplied with nine of these , besides the eight reserved exclusively for longitude connexions , which remained ays mdisturbed in their quiet berth on shipboard .
It was at first proposed by Sir vard Sabine that shouId take a series of magnetic ations at sea during our from to the Cape of Good ) thence to uelen , and special instrument ready for the purpose ; but as it as rranged that should the first part of our journey in the -steamer , it was thought advisable by the of the to quish all idea of netic obsel.tions at sea .
The land instruments were made use of on almost eYery nvailable occasion , both at Kerguelen and our journey ; but I ] myself in this to the KergueIen results , reserving the other observations for a separate tion .
The constants for the temperature-correction , and for other regarding the nets employed , were kindly determined for me by Mr. Whipple at Kew .
No correction for error of graduation of deflection-bar was found necessary .
The Rev. S. J. Perry on [ Mar. The angular value of one division of the scale of the vibration-magnet No. .
This was again tested at the Cape of Good Hope , and found to be .
The same magnet had for its induction-coefficient , and its dimensions of inertia were the following : foot , diameter foot , and weight grains .
The correction to Fahr. was ; and at Fahr. Our chief stronomical station at Kerguelen was Observatory Bay , little to the south of the north-west corner of Royal Sound , its approximate latitude being S. , and its longitude E. of Greenwich .
At this station a long series of observations of the dip , horizontal force , and declination were taken during our four months ' stay .
The trips undertaken for the establishment of our two secondary stations at Swain 's Haulover and at Thumb Peak , and also for the longitude connexions , afforded opportunities of observing the magnetic elements at the second and third British stations , as well as at that of the at Molloy Point .
The existence of a netic observatory at the German station rendered unnecessary any furfber observations at Betsy Cove .
brick pier was erected on a solid foundation at Observatory Bay for the magnetic instruments , and most of the observations were made on this spot .
The netic Dip .
The dip ations were with needles , and the results obtained on differsnt days are all entored in the Table:\mdash ; station at Swain 's six or seven miles to the south Observatory Bay , and Thumb Peak about the same distance due east of the Haulover .
At Thumb Peak there was only time to observe with a single needle ; the ther , too , was bad , the spot chosen not very favourable , being on the shingle near the water 's edge .
The on January 30th were taken on the rocks near the landing cove .
The last observation at Observatory Bay was made near the top of the rock erhanging the dwelling , and in a rather unsteady position ; it is therefore less reliable than the others .
The true dip for January 1st , 1875 , at Observatory Bay will probably be a little in excess of which is the mean of the values .
1877 .
] Magnetic Observations at Kerguelen .
The Intensity .
horizontal component of the intensity determined in usnal wav by tioJlS of vibration and deflection .
Only one set of obscrvations taken at distance from the chief station , .
that on December 13th , at } 's Haulover .
Vibration tions .
Station .
Observatoly Bay .
Iaulover .
vatory Bay .
Deflection ations .
Station .
ovetnber 1Decemb .
) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) In the Tables represents the gnelic molnent of the tion-needle , and X the earth 's horizontal magnetic intensity .
In deducing compollent and the intensity from the horizontal force , I have made use of the dip obtained on the same dny as the vibrations and deflections , or on the nenrest day possible .
, however , the ation of February 18th is ffi from reliable , I adoptod for February 9th the mean of dip deduced the nber and observations taken at Bay , ) .
VOL. XXYI .
II 98 The Rev. S. J. Perry on [ Mar. 21 , If , now , combine each determination of the horizontal force ths mean of the dip for December and January , the following results at atory Bay for the Vertical orce and the Total Intensity:\mdash ; The rror of the mean value of the intensity is thus reduced from to ; we may therefore consider as adopted 1 alue of the total force for January 1st , 1875 .
The antage of a fixed atory enabled us to determine exactness the direction of the ronomical mcridian , and to connect the position of the magnetic pier the sitcs of the astronomicnl instruments .
On January 28th and on ) 5th observations of the sun were taken with n excellent transit theodolite made express ] for the expedition by Messrs. hton and Simms .
resnIts give the for the zimuth of a -defined point on the oi Wales 's orelalld , some ten miles distant:\mdash ; Circle light .
Circle January 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The resulting of the fore be E. of the nolth point .
The correctness of this , on Lieh all the alions d , was tested by a of meJsnrements the azimnfh of the oreland ( with tnlar of tho oreat theodolite , a most accurate instrumenf , signed by G. 13 .
Airy for lnoar } at hc 1877 .
] Magnetic Observations at uelen .
not visible from the hut ( H ) , which stood , ever , not far from he }etic pier ( P ) , the connected as follows : be the true points on a mountain seen from P. By reful readings of , and from and the ving ) alues of the ere 7 ' 37 as 20 This , applied to the azimuth of from ( which as daily readings to be made the azimuth of ?
from The angle as then found by repented sures to be which as a final result the angle As this is almost identical with the obtained from direct solar ations , we can adopt the meall of the as the azimuth of the Foreland ; and thus we have ] to ths bearing of the magnet with respect to this poin iu ordel to obtain the results included in the subjoined Table .
linations .
The Rev. S. J. Perry on [ Mar. Observed Declinations ( continued ) .
Magnetic Observations at Kergueten .
101 The declination magnet used throughout these observations was incnpable of reversion ; and therefore the zero of the scale was tested carefully by several reversions previous to our departure from the ] and it was found to be .
A very favour series of reversions at Cape-Town Observatory had previously given as the zero division .
The above readings of the declination show an absolute lmum of .
on February 11th , and a minimum of at 2.45 .
on February 6th ; the range , therefore , for the month , as far as observed , is 17 ' 39 and the declination .
The daily means give a slightly larger W. declination , a range of only 10 ' for the whole series of tions .
Nothing more of course than the very roughest idea can be formed of the diurnal range from the few observations taken ; but there is some evidence at least of an easterly movement of the needle veen 1 and 3 by a -esterly motion th continued till 7 .
The greatest mean velocity of the mngnet about 3 ' per hour .
; but the velocity once reached 8 ' hour , .
at 10 , during the disturbance on February 11th .
As there are many disturbin cnuses that affect the earth 's magnetism as a whole , it may not be relevant to remark that an examination of the Stonyhurst magnetograms on all the days occurring in the above Table of Declinations that February 11th the only disturbed day in England , and that , with the exception of a slight fxemulous motion of the needle on ovember 13th and 14th , on December lOth , and on February 8th , the observing days were remarkably quiet .
Besides the series of observations taken at Bay , other determinations of the deolination made at 's llaulover , Thumb Peak , and Molloy Point ; but as some doubt still remnins to be cleared up respecting the errors and of the chrouometers employed in ths sun observations , I will defer the publication of the resuIts until this essential point is settled .
Previous to these observations , taken in connexion with the Government Transit-of-Venus Expedition , the only magnetic ations at Kerguelen on record , if we except iLny possible results ined by Cook in the century , those of Sir J. Boss in 1840 and of H.M. ' Challenger ' in .
The values coJltained in Sir Edward Snbine 's " " tions to Terrestrial nestism , No. XI ( Phil. Trans. ISCS ) , furnish the data necessary for a com rison with our present 11 ork .
Adopting for the dip the south end of the needle at Observatory Bay on Januilry 1st , 18 , { thd comparing this value the observation of Sir J. lloss in 1840 , afler } the dip of at Christmas Harbour by for change of to Sound , we find a secular tion of about ollsnlt the of cients deduced from all the collected tions , take alue of he dip in 1840 for the station hose is E. 102 .
B. Stewart on the Daily afitud.osition abservat yrepresents tchang.nnit.rebus aerror , orrection hristmas Harbour tSound , is still somewhat less than the mean of the observations taken near the 4 stern extrcmity of Kerguelen during the epoch 1840-45 .
Adopting as the mean value for 1842-45 , and for 1875 , we a secular diminution of in this element of terrestrffi magnetism .
pproximat , from tSabine aincrease otion se1lting the declination for the epoch 1842-45 .
IV .
' On the Variations of the Daily Range of the Magnetic Declination as recorded at the Kew Observatory.2 By BALFOUR STEWART , .D .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy at the Owens , Manchester .
Received February 28 , 1877 .
1 .
The daily range of the tYnetic declination at any station may perhaps be rded as a convement representative of the magnetic ctivity of the place .
For while a thorough discussion of the diurnal [ magnetic changes must embrace nlong with the declination the two components of the force , yet , as regards such daily ranges , the declination gives results which are not only more prominent but also mors easily 1 procurable and subject to fewer uncertainties than similar ones for the other elcments .
In estimatin the daily range of the magnetic declination , as recorded at the Kew ObserYatory , I have excluded the disturbed observations , conceiving that by so doing a better indication of the true magnetical activity of the place would be ined than by including them , inasmuch as they follow a very set of laws from that of the -known diurnal declination-range .
The disturbed obsel.vations haYe been separated by the method of Sir E. Sabine , those being rejected as disturbed for the measurements on the raphic cve are inch either above or below the value for that month and hour , one inch denoting of ugular chnnge .
The ranges are here given in inches , and they denote the diflerences the grentest ] east values of each day 's tabulations from the curve , rbances being excluded .
I am indebted to the kindness of the Kew Commiltee for giving me the daily ranges herein discussed , extending from the beginning of to the end of 1873 , thus embracing in all sixteen yenrs ' tions .

