A Spectroscopic Investigation of the Nature the Carriers of Positive Electricity from Heated Aluminium Phosphate .
By Frank Horton , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received October 24 , \#151 ; Read November 10 , 1910 .
) The emission of ions from incandescent solids has been studied by many investigators .
The value of e/ m , the ratio of the charge to the mass , for the carriers of negative electricity was first measured by Sir J. J. Thomson* in the case of a carbon filament heated in a high vacuum .
Other observers have since determined the value of this quantity for the negative ions emitted by different incandescent solids , and all agree that the carriers are negatively electrified corpuscles identical in mass from whatever substance they are produced .
The investigation of the nature of the carriers of positive electricity emitted by glowing solids presents greater difficulties , owing to the variability of the amount of the positive ionisation produced under different conditions , the causes of which are not yet fully understood .
The first measurements of the value of the specific charge of these ions were made by Sir J. J. Thomson , f who found \#151 ; 104/ 25 for the positive ions from a heated iron wire .
Later , experimenting with a strip of platinum foil which had already been heated for some hours in a high vacuum , he obtained the value e/ m = 104/ 27 for the majority of the carriers of positive electricity from that metal .
The positive ions thus seem to have the same mass , about 26 times that of the hydrogen atom , in the two cases .
This value suggested to Sir J. J. Thomson that they might be molecules of CO or of N2 , either of which has a mass about 28 times that of the hydrogen atom , so that it would be impossible to distinguish between these two gases by a determination of e/ m alone .
When a luminous discharge was passed through the residual gas in the tube after the experiments with platinum , the band spectrum of carbon monoxide was obtained , and it was concluded that molecules of this gas acted as the carriers of positive electricity from the glowing metal .
Measurements of the value of e/ m for the positive ions from platinum and from carbon have been made by a more elaborate method by 0 .
W. Richardson , :\#163 ; who finds in the case of these elements values very t * ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1899 , V , vol. 48 , p. 547 .
+ 'Conduction of Electricity through Gases , ' Camb .
University Press , 1906 , p. 148 .
t ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1908 , YI , vol. 16 , p. 740 .
Aote.\#151 ; In a paper published since this was written Richardson and Hulbirt ( ' Phil. Mag. , ' VI , 1910 , vol. 20 , p. 245 ) have found the values of m/ H for the positive ions from 434 Dr. F. Horton .
Nature of Carriers of Positive [ Oct. 24 , nearly the same as those obtained by Sir J. J. Thomson .
The values of the ratio of the mass of the carriers to that of an atom of hydrogen given by Richardson 's method are\#151 ; For platinum ... ... ... m/ H = 25*7 , For carbon ... ... ... .
m/ H = 27'6 .
Richardson found that the ions appeared to be quite homogeneous and independent of the temperature of the hot body .
He mentions that the values obtained are nearly those required by the molecular weights of nitrogen , oxygen , or carbon monoxide , but he sees no reason for supposing the substances experimented on should give out one or other of these gases .
As Richardson states , it is possible that the ions arise from some impurity common to all the materials which have been examined , and he suggests that positively charged sodium atoms would have a value of e/ m sufficiently near the values mentioned above .
This impurity theory seems difficult to reconcile with the facts that the positive leak from glowing platinum decays with continual heating , but can be restored by exposing the wire to a luminous discharge or by heating it in an atmosphere of any of the commoner gases .
On the other hand , if the positive ionisation is caused by an evolution of absorbed gas , it is possible that the passage of a luminous discharge near the wire would lead to reabsorption , or that the same effect would be brought about by heating the wire in an atmosphere of the gas , but one must admit that it is difficult to see why the value of e/ m for the positive carriers should be the same whatever gas is used .
As a matter of fact , the gas most copiously emitted by a metal when heated is hydrogen , and the values of e/ m obtained for the positive carriers make it quite certain that they are not atoms or molecules of that gas.* The spectrum of carbon monoxide can nearly always be obtained in a vacuum tube when the pressure is very low .
Its presence is generally \#166 ; considered as being due to dust in the tube or to grease used in lubricating taps in connection with the apparatus .
If a tube gives the CO spectrum , the bands generally obscure the spectrum of any other gas which may .a large number of metals .
These values are approximately the same in each case , the mean being 25*3 .
* In a paper published after this was written Garrett ( 'Phil .
Mag. , ' YI , 1910 , vol. 20 , p. 582 ) describes an experiment in which he obtained the value = 9700 for " the lightest positive ?
ions present " when aluminium phosphate was heated on a platinum strip in a vacuum .
This corresponds with a mass about equal to that of the hydrogen atom .
Some hydrogen would be evolved from the heated platinum , and this gas would no doubt be ionised .
It would seem , therefore , that Garrett was measuring the specific charge of these ions , which were not detected in Richardson 's experiments , and probably iorm a small proportion of the total ionisation .
1910 .
] Electricity from Heated Aluminium Phosphate .
435 be present in small quantity .
It therefore seemed desirable to attempt a spectroscopic investigation of the nature of the carriers of positive electricity from incandescent solids , taking the greatest possible precautions to avoid contamination with substances which might give rise to the spectrum of carbon monoxide .
The Method of Experiment .
Certain salts , when heated either in air at atmospheric pressure or in a good vacuum , give a much larger emission of positive ions than is obtained by heating metals or carbon .
The behaviour in this respect of a large number of substances was investigated by Sir J. J. Thomson , * and he found that , of the substances experimented on , the greatest effect was given by aluminium phosphate .
This salt was therefore used as the source of the positive ions in the experiments which are about to be described .
Some preliminary observations were first of all made to get some idea of the amount of the carriers of positive electricity which might be expected to be set free in an hour from a platinum strip covered with aluminium phosphate and heated in a good vacuum , in order to see if it were likely that they could be detected spectroscopically .
With this object in view the current which could be obtained between a platinum strip covered with aluminium phosphate and a surrounding electrode was measured when the strip was at a bright red heat .
The quantity of ions required to carry this current was then calculated on the assumption that each ion carried a charge equal to that of a monovalent ion in electrolysis .
With a strip of platinum , 25 cm .
long and 5 mm. wide , it was found that a current of 10-5 amperes could easily be obtained , and by adjusting the temperature of the platinum strip the current could be kept at this value .
In one hour this current would liberate , electrolytically , sufficient hydrogen gas to fill a vessel of 1 c.c. capacity at a pressure of 3 mm. of mercury and a temperature of 0 ' C. If the ions produced from the heated phosphate are monovalent and are capable of existing separately in the uncharged state ( unlike the electrolytic hydrogen ions , two of which when discharged combine to form a molecule ) , the quantity produced by a current of 10~5 amperes in one hour would , if confined in the same vessel in the gaseous state , exert twice this pressure at the same temperature .
Here we are not assuming that the positive ions from heated substances owe their origin to electrolysis , only that they carry the same charge as the electrolytic hydrogen ion , and the calculation shows that they could be collected in a small vacuum tube at a pressure sufficiently high to allow of a spectroscopic examination of them being made .
* 'Canib .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' 1907 , vol. 14 , p. 105 .
436 Dr. F. Horton .
Nature of Carriers of Positive [ Oct. 24 , In the actual experiments the small collecting vessel was cooled in liquid air while the current was being passed from the aluminium phosphate to the surrounding electrode .
The connection with the rest of the apparatus could then he closed , the liquid air removed , and when the condensed gas had vaporised its spectrum could be examined .
In the earlier experiments a small vacuum tube with aluminium electrodes was used to collect the gases liberated , but the spectrum obtained always contained lines which were thought to be those of gases ( chiefly hydrogen ) given out by the aluminium electrodes .
Small platinum electrodes were next tried , but these too , though better than those of aluminium , were unsatisfactory , and were finally discarded in favour of an electrodeless vessel .
A ring discharge in a spherical vessel was used , for it was found to be brighter and more easily worked than the ordinary electrodeless discharge in a straight vacuum tube .
In order that the volume of the collecting vessel should not be unduly large it was made by blowing a bulb of about 2 cm .
diameter , and then heating the bottom of this and sucking it inside the bulb to within about 1'5 mm. of the outer wall , thus giving a vessel of very small capacity .
Preliminary experiments with vessels of this kind showed that with six or eight turns of wire round the bulb a bright ring discharge could be obtained if the gas pressure was between 0'08 mm. and 1 mm. of mercury .
The apparatus used is diagrammatically represented in the figure .
The glass used in its manufacture was first of all carefully cleaned with chromic acid to remove grease , and the whole apparatus when completed ( but before the platinum strip P was sealed in ) was again cleaned out with hot concentrated nitric acid , and afterwards with chromic acid , and finally with distilled water .
The anode P was prepared in the following manner:\#151 ; A strip of platinum foil , 25 cm .
long and 5 mm. wide , was cut , and its ends welded on to thick platinum wire terminals Ti , T2 .
The whole was then boiled for some hours in concentrated nitric acid to clean it and to remove hydrogen .
It was then washed with distilled water , suspended in a clean tube , and heated by an electric current to bright redness for about an hour .
It was covered with a uniform layer of aluminium phosphate by making a thin paste of the latter with distilled water , dipping the strip into this paste , and then warming it gently by means of the electric current until quite dry .
This process was repeated several times until the strip was completely covered with aluminium phosphate .
It was then sealed into the apparatus .
In the diagram K is a thin sheet of platinum foil bent into a tube of slightly smaller diameter than the glass tube A ( about 2'5 cm .
) and joined 1910 .
] Electricity from Heated Aluminium Phosphate .
437 to the platinum wire C for connection to a battery of accumulator cells .
The aluminium phosphate covered strip , P , hangs inside the platinum tube without touching it , and the current between the strip and the tube can be measured by means of a d'Arsonval galvanometer .
The connection to the mercury pump , McLeod gauge , drying tubes , and carbon tube for producing a very low vacuum by cooling in liquid air is shown in the figure .
This To Pump OOOOOO connection could be broken by raising the mercury in the cistern of the barometer tube D. B is the bulb for collecting any substance evolved during the passage of the discharge in the tube A. This bulb was about 2 cm .
in external diameter , and the distance between the two walls was about l-5 mm. It was connected by capillary tubing to the discharge tube A , the connecting tubing being as short as possible .
This connection could be cut off by means of the mercury column E. The bulb B could be surrounded by liquid air for the purpose of condensing any evolved gases which could be liquefied by VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; A. 2 H 438 Dr. F. Horton .
Nature of Carriers of Positive [ Oct. 24 , cooling to that temperature .
A small coil of six turns of insulated flexible wire , such as is used for electric lamps , was made to fit the bulb .
It could be slipped over B with its axis in the plane of the paper as indicated in the figure .
The ends of the coil were connected to the outside coatings of two large Leyden jars , the inside coatings of which were connected to an induction coil with an electric valve in series .
An adjustable spark gap was arranged between the two inside coatings , and as sparks passed across this gap they were accompanied by a ring discharge in the bulb B. The spectrum of the discharge was viewed by means of a Hilger direct wavelength spectroscope .
The apparatus was evacuated by means of a mercury pump , and was then left for some time to make sure there was no leakage anywhere .
The conditions under which the ring discharge could best be obtained were then investigated , experiments being made at different low pressures and with varying lengths of air gap between the sparking knobs .
It was found that the ring discharge was at its best when the pressure in the bulb was between OT mm. and 0'5 mm. , although it could sometimes be obtained with the pressure as low as 0*03 mm. This seemed very satisfactory , and showed a distinct advantage over the ordinary vacuum tube arrangement , in which , at these low pressures , the luminosity of the discharge is very faint .
The spectrum of the ring discharge through the residual gas in the apparatus was carefully observed .
It was found to be the elementary line spectrum of air , consisting of a large number of nitrogen lines with some lines of oxygen and the hydrogen red line .
Five or six lines of the mercury spectrum were also present .
The gas pressure in the apparatus was then reduced as low as possible by means of charcoal cooled in liquid air , and the tube A was then cut off from the pump and charcoal tube by raising the level of the mercury cistern in connection with the barometer D. The temperature of the platinum strip P was raised to over 1000 ' C. by connecting its terminals to the town alternating current supply through a set of resistances which could be varied so as to adjust the current to give the required temperature in the strip .
The bulb B was immersed in liquid air to condense anything liquefiable at that temperature which was given off by the heated strip .
After about two hours the heating current was cut off , the connection at E was closed , and the liquid air was removed .
G-as to a pressure of about 5 mm. developed in the bulb B , and , as this pressure was too great to give the electrodeless ring discharge , it was lessened by reopening the connection at E and allowing some of the gas to escape into the main tube A. The ring discharge was then easily obtained and its spectrum showed many of the brightest nitrogen 1910 .
] Electricity from Heated Aluminium Phosphate .
439 lines , also the hydrogen red line very brightly and several of the mercury lines .
A few lines of carbon were also measured , the double red line A 6584 , 6579 being particularly brilliant .
The existence of nitrogen lines in this spectrum was taken as showing that all the air had not yet been got rid of .
It is probable that the warming up of the glass apparatus during the heating of the strip had driven off some of the air which is known to cling to the walls of an exhausted tube , and that it was this which was producing the nitrogen lines in the spectrum .
The hydrogen line was probably from gas evolved by the heated platinum strip .
Before the experiment proper could be performed it was obviously necessary to get rid of this liberation of gas on merely warming the glass apparatus .
The connection to the pump , etc. , was again opened and the whole apparatus was again evacuated by means of the charcoal tube cooled in liquid air .
The above experiment was then repeated and the spectrum of the condensed gas again observed .
The nitrogen lines were now much fainter , and on repeating the evacuation and heating several times they completely disappeared .
It was found that the amount of gas collected while the platinum strip was maintained at a high temperature became gradually less , but although the heating was repeated some 8 or 10 times , on each occasion for about two hours , it was found that some gas could always be collected .
The lines measured in the spectrum of this gas are given in the first column of the table on p. 440 .
When all the air had been got rid of , the effect of having a measured current passing from the heated aluminium phosphate to the surrounding cylinder was investigated .
The platinum strip covered with aluminium phosphate was earthed .
The positive terminal of a battery of small accumulator cells was also earthed , and the negative terminal was insulated and connected through a d'Arsonval galvanometer to the platinum cylinder surrounding the strip .
The vacuum having been made as good as possible , the apparatus was isolated from the pump and the platinum strip was raised to a temperature of about 1000 ' C. A difference of potential of 120 volts was then established between the earth-connected end of the strip and the cylinder .
The bulb B was surrounded with liquid air and the discharge allowed to go on for about two hours .
During this time the galvanometer deflections were read at intervals of about a quarter of an hour .
The deflections were not steady , but tended to decrease .
This was prevented by gradually increasing the temperature of the platinum strip .
The mean of the galvanometer deflections corresponded to a current of 8'4 x 10"6 amperes , a current sufficient to liberate by electrolysis 2'5 c.c. of hydrogen gas per hour , measured at 0 ' C. and at a pressure of 1 mm. of mercury .
440 Dr. F. Horton .
Nature o Carriers of Positive [ Oct. 24 , At the conclusion of this run the bulb B was separated by the mercury cut-off from the rest of the apparatus , and the spectrum of the ring discharge in the collected gas was examined .
It was found to consist of practically the same lines as the spectrum of the gas collected by simply heating the aluminium phosphate without the negative potential being applied to the surrounding cylinder .
The lines measured , together with their intensities , are recorded in the following table .
Most of them have been identified as being due to carbon , oxygen , hydrogen , or mercury :\#151 ; Lines measured in the spectrum of the gas collected after the sixth heating of platinum strip covered with aluminium phosphate .
Intensity .
Lines measured in the spectrum of the gas collected after current'of 8*4 x 10-6 amperes had passed for 2 hours between heated aluminium phosphate and surrounding electrode .
Intensity .
Lines identified as X. 6582 8 1 6582 10 / 65841 L 6579 J 6563 10 6563 10 6563 H 6152 1 6152 1\#151 ; 5 6152 Hg 6096 3 6097 3 5890 10 5890 10 5889 Hg 5878 1 5791 1 5791 1\#151 ; 4 5791 Hg 5771 1 5771 1\#151 ; 4 5770 Hg 5696 5 5696 4 5679 4 5679 5 5679 Hg 5663 2 5663 2 5662 0 5649 2 5649 1 5649 C 5640 1 5640 1 5641 0 5460 2\#151 ; 10 5460 10 5461 Hg 5427 3 5427 2 5427 Hg 5206 3 5206 2 5207 O 5152 2 5152 2 5152 c 5146 8 5146 5 5145 c 5133 6 5133 5 5133 0 4940 3 4940 3 4924 2 4924 2 4925 0 4907 2 4907 2 4907 0 4891 1 4891 1 4892 0 4850 5 J4706 [ 4700 4700 4 b 4700 3 d \ ' 4675 1 ?
4676 0 4660 1 ?
4662 0 | 4650 8b 4648 8 4649 0 4641 3 b 4640 3 b J4642 ' 14639 j 4593 3 b 4593 2d / 4597 ] 14591J / 4417 ] Lr\gt ; 4416 3 b 4418 4 \ 4415 J 4357 4 4359 Hg !
/ 4352 1 A 4350 1 b 4352 2 14349 J ?
u 4270 6 b 4270 2 4267 c b signifies that the line was blurred , not sharp .
d signifies that the line was thought to be a double one .
1910 .
] Electricity from Heated Aluminium Phosphate .
441 The wave-lengths in the last column were taken from Kayser 's ' Handbuch der Spectroscopie/ those of mercury lines being from the observations of Eder and Valenta , the carbon lines by Gramont , and the oxygen lines by Neovius .
On first taking away the liquid air the pressure in the bulb B was too low for the ring discharge to pass .
This began as the bulb warmed up , and it was noticed that the mercury lines were the last to appear in the spectrum .
, These always brightened up considerably as the tube was worked , owing to the increasing vapour pressure of the mercury which had been condensed in B during the first part of the experiment .
It was found that the brilliance of the ring discharge could be considerably reduced by surrounding the bulb B with iced water to keep it cool .
In the spectrum , under these conditions , the lines marked as mercury were all greatly diminished in brightness , most of the weaker ones disappearing .
The unidentified lines also disappeared , except A 4940 , which became very faint .
The carbon , oxygen , and hydrogen lines remained , but were of slightly diminished intensity .
It has been stated that , in the first experiments which were made , instead of using the ring discharge to test the spectrum of the gas collected , a small vacuum tube of the ordinary kind was employed .
In these experiments the spectrum obtained showed the hydrogen red and blue lines and some of the brighter lines of the secondary hydrogen spectrum* together with the band spectrum of carbon monoxide .
The hydrogen lines became brighter as the vacuum tube was worked , which seemed to suggest that this gas was coming out of the electrodes .
It was for this reason that the tube was discarded and the electrodeless bulb used .
From the table it appears that the oxycarbon spectrum was not due to the metallic electrodes , for the lines of carbon and of oxygen point to the presence of an oxide of carbon in the gas collected .
In order to see if this supposition were correct , the apparatus shown in the figure was modified by putting a small vacuum tube of the ordinary shape , but without electrodes , in connection with the bulb B. The small tube had its ends covered with tinfoil , which was bound on by insulating tape and then waxed over .
On repeating the experiment and observing the spectrum of the gas collected in the two tubes , it was found that whereas the ring discharge gave the lines of carbon and oxygen , the ordinary electrodeless discharge gave the band spectrum usually attributed to carbon monoxide .
It is probable that this difference is due to the decomposition of the carbon monoxide by the ring discharge .
This is similar to the result obtained with air .
It has been mentioned that the spectrum of the ring 442 Dr. F. Horton .
Nature of Carriers of Positive [ Oct. 24 , discharge through the residual air in the apparatus , before the platinum strip had been heated , was the " elementary line spectrum " of air , whereas the spectrum obtained from air at a low pressure in an ordinary vacuum tube is a series of bands due to nitrogen .
The difference between the two spectra is probably due to the dissociation of the nitrogen molecules at the higher temperature of the ring discharge .
The ring discharge is an oscillatory discharge from Leyden jars , and the production of line spectra under these conditions is in accordance with the general rule that increasing the amount of energy in the discharge by the introduction of capacity into the circuit has the effect of increasing the number of lines in the spectrum obtained .
This increase is usually greatest at the blue end of the spectrum , as , for instance , in the case of argon .
In the present case of carbon monoxide I was unable to change the band spectrum of the ordinary electrodeless discharge into the line spectra of carbon and oxygen by placing a Leyden jar and spark gap in parallel with the tube , although Smithells* has found that with a vacuum tube with electrodes , at low gas pressures , this change takes place as the spark gap is gradually widened .
The difficulty of sending a heavy discharge through the electrodeless tube probably accounts for this change not occurring in these experiments .
It might here be mentioned that the difference between the spectrum of the ring discharge and the ordinary vacuum tube spectrum of carbon monoxide is in agreement with the theory of Sir J. J. Thomson as to the origin of line spectra and band spectra .
According to this theory , banded spectra are due to the vibrations of electrical doublets , each consisting of a negatively charged particle bound to a positively charged particle inside the atom or molecule , whereas line spectra are produced by the vibrations of small negatively charged corpuscles outside the atom .
It does not seem improbable that the extra energy of the ring discharge should lead to a splitting up of the electrical doublets inside the CO molecule , liberating electrons which , by their vibrations , give rise to the lines obtained in the spectrum of the ring discharge .
The fact that the gas collected when a continuous current is passing from the heated aluminium phosphate to the surrounding cylinder gives the same spectrum as the gas obtained when no external E.M.F. is applied , might bb taken as indicating that the positive ions have escaped collection , or that they are present in such small quantity as not to produce any change in the spectrum observed , were it not that we have already seen that the total quantity of electricity carried by these ions * ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1901 , VI , vol. 1 , p. 476 .
1910 .
] Electricity from Heated Aluminium Phosphate .
443 during the experiment is so great that it might reasonably be expected that they are produced in sufficient quantity to be detected by the spectroscope .
We must take it that the positive ions are present in the collected gas in sufficient quantity for their spectrum to be observed , and I think these experiments show that they consist of molecules of carbon monoxide or of oxygen .
Although no oxygen lines were visible in the ordinary vacuum tube discharge through the collected gas , it must be remembered that these lines do not show up when oxygen is mijced with nitrogen , and they would probably also be obscured by the presence of carbon monoxide .
We cannot , therefore , be sure that the oxygen lines obtained in the spectrum of the ring discharge are entirely due to the effect of that discharge on the carbon monoxide gas , although this would be a satisfactory explanation of their presence .
On the other hand , the carbon lines in the spectrum of the ring discharge are probably due entirely to the carbon monoxide , for carbon in the gaseous condition could only be present in the bulb at the instant of dissociation of that gas .
In this connection it should be mentioned that there was no noticeable deposition of carbon in the bulb , so that the dissociation into carbon and oxygen must have been followed by a complete recombination of these elements when the ring discharge was stopped .
Carbon monoxide and oxygen are two of the gases mentioned by Kichardson as possible carriers of the positive charges from the point of view of their molecular masses .
The entire absence of nitrogen lines from the spectrum of the gas collected in these experiments seems to preclude the possibility of the positive ions consisting of nitrogen .
If they do consist of a*n elementary substance , it would be more in accordance with the nature of positive ions from other sources if they are atoms and not molecules .
In ordinary electrolysis we have the atoms of elementary substances acting as the carriers of the electric charges , but in certain cases we have also compound radicals , consisting of groups of atoms , acting as the carriers of the positive charge .
There seems to be no reason why , in the case of the discharge of electricity from a glowing solid , the positive ion should not consist of CO , a compound radical acting like an atom , for we know that this group plays the part of an atom in many chemical reactions .
Five of the lines recorded in the table on p. 440 are there not attributed to any element .
It may be that these , together with other lines only faintly visible and not measured in these experiments , form the spectrum of the carriers of positive electricity from heated aluminium phosphate , but I am inclined to think that they are due to some other cause .
Each of the lines 6097 , 5878 , 5696 , 4940 , 4850 , corresponds to a line in the secondary spectrum of hydrogen , but the corresponding secondary hydrogen lines are 444 Dr. F. Horton .
Nature of Carriers of Positive [ Oct. 24 , very faint , except in the case of 4849 , which is of intensity 4 .
In my experiments the line 4850 was only observed in one set of experiments .
The other four lines were always seen , and I am inclined to attribute their presence to mercury , although they are not lines which are usually seen in the mercury spectrum .
Like most of the mercury lines observed in these experiments , they increased in brightness as the tube warmed up with continual working , and like all the fainter mercury lines , they disappeared when the bulb was kept cool in iced water while the spectrum of the discharge was being observed .
Some time ago the writer* drew attention to five lines in the red and orange regions of the mercury spectrum which , though generally invisible , were obtained very brightly when a luminous discharge from a glowing lime-covered cathode is produced in mercury vapour .
Since then the spectrum of mercury has been more closely studied , and it has been found that when the ordinary vacuum tube discharge , with capacity in parallel , is taken in mercury vapour at a very low pressure , a large number of new lines come into prominence .
These lines ( and the red and orange lines referred to above ) may not be due to mercury vapour in a normal condition , but may be produced by something formed from mercury by the passage of the electric discharge through its vapour\#151 ; some new arrangement of corpuscles which again becomes mercury when the discharge ceases .
Two experiments which have recently been made seem to support this view .
The first of these is an experiment described by Dr. H. Brereton Baker at a recent lecture at the Royal Institution^ If oxygen is allowed to enter a mercury lamp immediately after the current has been cut off , it is found that a considerable quantity of mercuric oxide is formed , although the temperature is much lower than that at which mercury vapour in a normal condition combines with oxygen .
Evidently the ionised mercury vapour remaining in the lamp has different chemical properties from mercury vapour in the ordinary atomic condition , and the spectrum given by this vapour may depend upon the nature and extent of the ionisation .
This view is also supported by the recent experiments of Ladenburg on the absorption spectrum of hydrogen .
Ladenburg found that when light from a hydrogen vacuum tube was sent through a long tube containing hydrogen gas , no absorption took place unless the gas in the long tube was also conveying an electric current , in which case marked absorption of the hydrogen red light was obtained .
It looks , therefore , as though the hydrogen red line were given out by some arrangement of corpuscles not * ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' 1908 , vol. 14 , p. 501 .
t See ' Nature , ' 1910 , vol. 84 , p. 388 .
1910 .
] Electricity from Heated Aluminium Phosphate .
445 present in hydrogen in the ordinary condition , but manufactured from the gas by the passage of the electric current .
In the case of mercury we have a vapour of high atomic weight , and one which is very easily ionised , and it would seem that new corpuscular arrangements might be formed more readily than in the case of hydrogen .
That the brightness of different lines given by mercury vapour varies enormously under different conditions is well illustrated by the intensities given in the table on p. 440 by the brightness of the yellow line A 5889 in the spectrum of the electrodeless ring discharge , at a time when the two yellow lines X 5770 and X 5791 , usually so prominent in the mercury spectrum , were only faintly visible .
I think it is probable , therefore , that the lines X 6097 , 5878 , 5696 , and 4940 are due to the passage of the electrodeless ring discharge through the mercury vapour present in the discharge tube .
Conclusion .
It has been pointed out that from the magnitude of the total quantity of electricity carried from the heated aluminium phosphate to the surrounding electrode we are justified in assuming that the positive ions are set free in sufficient numbers for their spectrum to be observed .
The spectroscopic evidence shows that carbon monoxide , hydrogen , mercury vapour , and possibly oxygen are present in the apparatus , all of these , with the exception of mercury , being liberated by the heating of the platinum strip covered with aluminium phosphate .
The values of e/ m for the carriers of positive electricity obtained by Richardson make it certain that these carriers cannot be atoms or molecules of hydrogen or mercury ; and in this paper reasons have been given for thinking it doubtful whether oxygen is really present in the free state in the tube .
Richardson 's values of e/ m make the mass of the carriers considerably greater than that of the oxygen atom , and I think it is more likely that the ions , if they consist of an elementary substance , are atoms , not molecules .
The fact , too , that oxygen is strongly electro-negative in character would seem to be against its acting as a carrier of positive electricity .
The conclusion arrived at is , therefore , that the positive ions are molecules of carbon monoxide .
The mass of these molecules is very near to that required to fit in with the value of the specific charge obtained for the positive ions from iron , platinum , and carbon .
We are assuming that the carriers of positive electricity are the same in the case of aluminium phosphate , an assumption which seems to be justified by the experiments of Brown , * who has shown that the kinetic energy of these ions is the same as that of the ions from metals .
* * Phil. Mag. , ' VI , 1909 , vol. 18 , p. 649 .
446 Dr. F. Horton .
Nature of Carriers of Positive [ Oct. 24 , The question arises , is this carbon monoxide evolved from the heated aluminium phosphate , or is it produced from the glass walls of the apparatus ?
In the experiments which have been made to determine the value of the specific charge and the kinetic energy of the carriers of positive electricity from heated substances , there can be no doubt that relatively large amounts of carbon monoxide were present in the apparatus used .
In the experiments described in the present paper the utmost care was taken to have the whole apparatus free from traces of dust or grease or anything which might give rise to carbon monoxide gas .
With glass cleaned in the same way as the apparatus used in these experiments , the writer has had vacuum tubes containing mercury heated so that the spectrum of the electric discharge through the vapour might be observed , and only after long continued heating has the spectrum of carbon monoxide appeared .
In the case of these mercury vacuum tubes the inner surface of the glass became broken up by continued sparking from the surface of the mercury while the discharge was passing , and this might be expected to allow any gas occluded or dissolved in the glass to escape into the vacuum tube , and probably accounted for the CO spectrum which was sometimes seen in tubes that had been worked for several weeks .
In the present experiments no such breaking up of the glass surface occurs , and it would he much more difficult for gas to escape into the tube from inside the glass .
The gas occluded on the surface would be got rid of during the first few heatings and evacuations .
It must , however , be mentioned that the experiment was tried of heating up the glass by means of a Bunsen burner while the aluminium phosphate remained cold , and it was found that a small amount of gas could be collected in the bulb cooled in liquid air and this gas gave the carbon monoxide spectrum , but the amount of gas collected in this way was not nearly so much as when the aluminium phosphate was heated .
In heating the apparatus from outside with the Bunsen flame parts of the glass were no doubt made much hotter than when heated by the radiation from the glowing platinum strip , and gas occluded on these parts might thus have been removed .
It would be much easier to imagine that the CO spectrum is due to the heating of the glass than that it is evolved from the aluminium phosphate , for the carbonates used in the manufacture of glass might be expected to evolve COa , which in a vacuum tube gives the same spectrum as CO , the reason for this being , according to Liveing* that the carbonic acid gas dissociates into carbon monoxide and oxygen and the former acts as the carrier of positive electricity through the tube .
I tried to estimate whether more gas was produced in the apparatus when a current was passing from the heated * ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proa , ' 1904 , vol. 12 , p. 338 .
1910 .
] Electricity from Heated Aluminium Phosphate .
strip to the surrounding electrode than when the latter was insulated , but I was unable to come to any definite conclusion .
The experiment could easily be performed by having a small McLeod gauge in immediate connection with the discharge tube A or the condensing bulb B. In these experiments , however , the apparatus was designed to have as little surface of glass as possible , in order to avoid trouble from the occluded gas .
Reference has already been made to the fact that the spectrum of the gas collected is the same whether it is obtained when the aluminium phosphate is heated without an external electric field being applied from the battery of cells , or with a current passing from the strip to the surrounding electrode .
In the first case it might be thought that no ions would be set free , but the liberation would still go on for a short time .
Sir J. J. Thomson found that aluminium phosphate evolves positive ions when heated without the application of any electric field , and it must be remembered that in the present experiments the phosphate was heated by an alternating current , which would cause it alternately to drive out and to draw back positive ions .
If the surrounding cylinder is so near to the heated strip that the positive ions reach it before the potential difference between the electrodes is reversed , they would give up their charges to the cylinder and be set free in an uncharged condition .
Other ions emitted by the heated phosphate would , no doubt , discharge themselves to the sides of the glass tube , and , perhaps , to the mercury in the adjacent barometer tube .
That positive ions were shot , off in this way and charged up the surrounding platinum cylinder was proved by connecting this to earth through the galvanometer .
On heating up the phosphate by the alternating current a large deflection was obtained , the current passing across the tube being about the same as when the saturation E.M.F. was applied from the cells .
When the electrode surrounding the platinum strip is insulated , as in the experiment from which was obtained the spectrum recorded in the first column of the table on p. 440 , the ions would cease to be emitted from the heated strip after the surrounding electrode had become charged to a certain potential , depending upon the maximum positive potential attained in the strip .
As already stated , experiments made to see whether more gas was evolved while the current was passing across the tube than when the cylindrical electrode was insulated led to no definite result , but the fact that the gas collected in each case gave the same spectrum may , perhaps , be due to ions being condensed in both experiments , although the number collected would be very much greater while the current was running than when the cylinder was insulated .
If carbon monoxide gas is evolved from the heated aluminium phosphate , and if it is molecules of this evolved 448 Nature of Carriers of Positive Electricity .
gas which act as the positive ions , it would follow that much more gas is evolved while the current is passing from the heated electrode than when the surrounding cylinder is insulated , or else that a larger percentage of the molecules of the evolved gas is ionised when the heated phosphate is at a higher positive potential than the surrounding cylinder than when this is not the case .
That carbon monoxide should be evolved from metals and from aluminium phosphate when heated seems very mysterious .
It is well known that many metals , notably platinum and palladium , evolve hydrogen when strongly heated , but the presence of this elementary gas can be more readily accounted for than could the presence of a compound like carbon monoxide .
I believe that , for some unknown reason , the aluminium phosphate used in these experiments did evolve some ( at least ) of the gas which gave the carbon monoxide spectrum , but it is difficult to believe that this gas is also emitted by all the materials heated in the kinetic energy experiments of Brown .
However , there can be no doubt that carbon monoxide was present in the apparatus used by Brown , and even if it were not in the first place evolved by the substances experimented on , I think it may still have acted as the positive ion as indicated by the uniformity of the results obtained .
Ho doubt the molecules of carbon monoxide would more readily act as carriers of positive electricity from a substance if they came from inside that substance than if they only got in contact with its surface .
How carbon monoxide has the property of readily diffusing into carbon and into a number of metals ; it is also not easily dissociated by heat or by the electric discharge.* When a metal is heated in an atmosphere of carbon monoxide , molecules of the gas would be continually entering and leaving the surface of the metal .
Many of those leaving would , as a rule , be ionised and carry away a positive charge , but this leakage of positive electricity could be prevented by an opposing E.M.F. , which would cause the molecules escaping with a positive charge to diffuse back again into the metal .
The question arises , why does this not happen to other gases when present in the apparatus ?
I should have expected it would happen to some extent , especially in the case of a strongly electro-positive gas such as hydrogen ; but hydrogen would be present in the molecular condition , and ions usually consist of atoms when an elementary substance is concerned .
The CO radicle , though compound , acts as an atom in many chemical combinations .
It would appear also to have a greater affinity for positive electricity than * J. N. Collie , ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' 1901 , vol. 79 , p. 1063 .
Colour-Blindness and Trichromatic Theory of Colour Vision .
449 any of the ordinary gases , as is evidenced by the readiness with which the spectrum of carbon monoxide shows up in vacuum tubes , often to the total exclusion of the spectrum of other gases which are known to be present .
If the view that the positive ions from heated substances are molecules of carbon monoxide is correct , it would mean that a substance -which of itself evolved this gas when heated would probably have a greater positive leak than one which did not do so .
A large emission of positive ions would also be expected to be obtained from a substance which had a strong affinity for negative electricity , and would thus more readily allow the molecules of gas to escape with a positive charge .
This is probably a property of phosphorus at high temperatures , for Sir J. J. Thomson has shown that the phosphates as a class emit large amounts of positive electricity when heated .
The author wishes to take this opportunity of thanking Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson for his interest in these experiments , which were carried out in the Cavendish Laboratory , Cambridge .
Colour-Blindness and the Trichromatic Theory of Colour Vision .
Part II.\#151 ; Incomplete Red or Green Blindness .
By Sir W. de W. Abney , K.C.B. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received October 5 , \#151 ; Read December 8 , 1910 .
) In Part I of this subject* I treated of complete colour-blindness in its relation to the trichromatic theory of colour vision .
In this communication , which is a continuation of that published , I deal with incomplete colourblindness and its relation to the same theory .
The number of cases of incomplete red or green blindness is larger than those where the colourblindness is complete .
In cases of incomplete colour-blindness so far as they have come under my examination the sensation curves of the red and green sensations are similar ( in a mathematical sense ) to those existing in normal vision , that is to say , if in the normal ( say ) red curve an ordinate of one colour indicates a perception of " a " red , and for the incomplete red-blind a perception of " b " red , then in any other position in the spectrum the proportion of normal to incomplete red-blindness is as b. This * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1910 , vol. 83 .

