1805 .
] Structure , Organisation , Sfc .
, of Fossil Eeptilia .
187 If we take the differences between 1 and 4 , 2 and 5 , 3 and 6 , we get the following four sets of values for a , b , c , and p. Q. Difference between a. b. c. d. 1 and 4 ... . . .
212 211 210 212 2 and 5 ... . . .
211 211 212 212 3 and 6 ... . . .
211 212 212 212 634 Mean = 634 634-5 .
634 636 i \#151 ; 6345 = 35-25 , fi = 6X3 1-733 .
From the results given above it would appear that the index of refraction of sulphur is very near 1'73 .
The method adopted thus seems to be capable of giving accurate results ; no large quantity of material is required .
The method is also well suited for liquids .
The determination of the indices of other solids and liquids are in progress .
I shall give an account of these in a future communication .
II .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
Part X. On the complete Skeleton of an Anomodont .
Reptile ( .
Wiedersheim ) , from the Bunter Sandstone of Reihen , near Basel , giving new Evidence of the Relation of the Anomo-dontia to the Monotremata .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received November 7 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) With the co-operation of the Trustees of the University Museum of Basel and Professor Riitimeyer , the author has examined the fossil described by Dr. Robert Wiedersheim in 1878 as don Rutimeyeri .
The bones are differently interpreted:\#151 ; The reputed humerus is the interclavicle .
The reputed scapula is the humerus .
The reputed supra-scapula is the left coracoid .
The reputed supra-scapula is the right scapula .
The reputed right and left coracoids are the pre-coracoid and coracoid of the right side .
The reputed clavicles are the ribs .
Five digits are identified in place of four in 1878 .
168 Structure , Organisation , Sfc .
, of Fossil Reptilia .
[ Dec. 12 , These osteological identifications are inconsistent with reference of the type to the Labyrinthodontia .
The author also examines the relation of the Labyrinthodont type to existing Amphibia , and regards the Labyrinthodont osteology as demonstrating closer relationship with Ichthyosauria and Anomodontia .
The group is therefore regarded as reptilian , forming a branchiate division of the class .
The fossil is referred to a new genus\#151 ; Aristodesmus .
It is identified as an Anomodont reptile chiefly on the basis of resemblances to Procolophon and Pareiasaurus .
It is shown not to be a mammal by the large parietal foramen , the composite structure of the lower jaw , and presence of the pre-frontal bone .
It , however , differs from known Anomodonts in making a somewhat closer approximation to Monotreme mammals than has hitherto been evident , and this correspondence extends to successive segments of both the fore and hind limbs .
The teeth are in sockets placed obliquely , with conical crowns compressed to sharp lateral margins , and curved inward .
The proportions of the vertebral column are those of Echidna , though the transverse processes are longer , as in Pareiasaurus .
The ribs are like those of a Monotreme , though the sacral ribs are longer .
The shoulder girdle resembles that of Procolophon , and differs from all other Anomodonts in the constituent bones being unanchylosed , and in the precoracoid having a large anterior extension in advance of the scapula .
The sternum appears to have been unossified as in Orocodilia .
The humerus is widely expanded at both extremities and twisted , but does not show the peculiar lateral curvature seen in Monotremes .
The ulna gives no evidence of an olecranon process ; it is larger than the radius , and appears to articulate with the humerus .
The pelvic bones are without acetabular or obturator perforations , are not anchylosed together , and the ilium is not expanded transversely .
The hind limb is no larger than the fore limb .
The femur is more slender than the bone in Echidna .
The fibula is prolonged proximally beyond the stout tibia , round which it may rotate .
The proximal row of the tarsus is one large bone , formed of the blended astragalus and os calcis .
In conclusion , the author argues that the points of structure are so few in which Monotreme mammals make a closer approximation to the higher mammals than is seen in this fossil and other Anomodontia , that the Monotreme resemblances to fossil reptiles become increased in importance .
He believes that a group Theropsida might be made to include Monotremata and Anomodontia , the principal differences ( other than those of the skull ) being* that monotremes preserve the marsupial bones , the atlas vertebra , and certain cranial sutures .
Ornithorhynchus shows pre-frontal and post-frontal bones , and has the malar arch formed as in Anomodonts .
1895 .
] Mr. A. McAulay .
Octoniom .
169 Arutodesmus , which suggests this link , is at present placed in the Procolophonia , a group separated from its recent association with Pareiasaurus and restored to its original independence , because it has two occipital condyles , with the occipital plate vertical , and without lateral vacuities , and has the shoulder girdle distinct from Pareia-sauria in the separate pre-coracoid extending in advance of the scapula .
III .
" Octonions .
' ' By Alex .
McAulay , M.A. , Lecturer in Mathematics and Physics , University of Tasmania .
Communicated by Rev. N. M. Ferrers , D.D. , F.R.S. Received November 28 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) Octonions is a name adopted for various reasons in place of Clifford 's Bi-quaternions .
Formal quaternions are symbols which formally obey all the laws of the quaternion symbols , q ( quaternion ) , x ( scalar ) , p ( vector ) 0 ( linear function in both its ordinary meanings ) , 0 ' ( conjugate of 0 ) , i , j , Jc , \#163 ; , Ky , S q , T q , U q , Vq .
Octonions are in this sense formal quaternions .
Each octonion symbol , however , requires for its specification just double the number of scalars required for the corresponding quaternion symbol .
Thus , of every quaternion formula involving the above symbols there is a geometrical interpretation more general than the ordinary quaternion one , an octonion interpretation .
The new interpretation , like the old , treats space impartially , i.e. , it has no special reference to an arbitrarily chosen origin or system of axes .
If Q is an octonion and q a quaternion , the symbols , which in octonions correspond^ Kg , S q , T q , Ug , Yq in quaternions , are denoted by KQ , SQ , TQ , UQ , MQ .
KQ is called the conjugate of Q , SQ the scalar octonion part , TQ the augmenter , UQ the twister , and MQ the motor part .
If A is a " motor " whose axis intersects the axis of Q perpendicularly , QA is also a motor intersecting Q perpendicularly .
UQ .
A is obtained from A by a combined translation along and rotation about the axis of Q ; i.e. , by a " twist " about the axis of Q. TQ .
A is obtained from A by increasing the " rotor " part of A in a definite ratio , and by increasing the " pitch " of A by a definite addition .
UQ = UiQ U3Q , where when Q is thus regarded as an operator , UjQ is a " versor , " i.e. , it effects the rotation mentioned ; and U3Q is a " translator , " i.e. , it effects the translation mentioned .
Similarly , TQ = rI\Q .
T3Q where TiQ is a " tensor , " i.e. , it effects the ratioVOL .
LIX .
n

