IV .
Of Hydatides enclosed with a Stony Crust in the Kidny of a Sheep .
By Mr W. Cowper , F. R. S. IN the Sheeps Kidny , which was ordered at a late Meeting of the Society , to be set aside for me to examine , I found a large whitish body , inclining to yellow , and ting 'd with red , as it lay under the Membrane of the Kidney , vid .
Tab. I. Fig. 1.A .
This was very hard , as is usual in Animal Petrifactions , 2 thirds of it lay hid within the substance of the Kidney : It was enclosed with a thick hard Membrane , thatcould not easily be separated from it , even with a Needle fixed in the end of a Stick .
The Branches of the Emulgent Veins and Arteries , lay between it and the Pelvis of the Kidney ; all which Vessels were somewhat pressed by this petrified Body .
As I was picking off its thick strong Membranous Enclosures , I found the Needle slip into a cavity at an Aperture Fig. II .
By this I was informed ( of what I must confess , before I had no suspicion of ) that this hard and heavy Petrifyed Body was hollow , whereupon I thought of dividing it with a Saw , but finding a Membranous Interstice in it , Fig 2 .
B. I pulled it asunder , as expressed Fig. III .
and found its inside divided by many Petrifyed Cells C.of irregular Figures , and filled with Hydatides , some of which are represented at D. This uncommon appearance ( at least to me ) of a Petrifyed Crust enclosing Hydatides , I thought deserved the Figures annexed .
Tab. I. Fig. I. The external Surface of the Kidney of a Sheep .
A. The Petrifyed Body as it appeared in it before dissection .
Fig. II .
The inferior Surface of the same Petrifyed Body , after the Membrane that enclosed it was taken off .
a The Hole by which it was discovered to be hollow .
B. The Fissure by which it was divided , to show its inside expressed .
Fig. III .
C. Its Petrifyed Cells that contained the Hydatides of various Sizes and Figures , expressed at D when taken out .
Philos=Transact=no=307 Tab : i. Fig : 1 Fig = IIIFig = II AB C

