5 .
" A new Theory of Physics , with its application to important phenomena hitherto considered as ultimate facts .
" By Thomas Exley , Esq. , A.M. The theory of the author is founded on the two following propositions , namely , that 1 .
Every atom of matter consists of an immense sphere of force , varying inversely as the square of the distance from the centre ; this force being attractive at all distances , except in a small concentric sphere , in which it is repulsive .
2 .
Atoms differ from each other in their absolute forces , or in the extent of their spheres of repulsion , or in both these respects .
The author assumes that there are four classes of atoms , the tenacious , the electric , the ethereal , and the aromatic .
The existence of the last-named class of atoms he infers from the phenomena of vegetation , the miasmata of marshes , the aroma of plants , various noxious effluvia , the disinfecting property of some bodies , and facts relating to animalcules , and their ova , &amp;c. He regards the two propositions which constitute the great principles of his theory , as presenting , at once , a complete explication of the general attributes of matter and body , with the Newtonian laws of motion , not otherwise theoretically explicable .
After pursuing at some length his theoretical speculations , founded on the above-mentioned propositions , the author concludes his paper with the following sentence : ?
" The several partial theories of philosophers , as far as concerns the leading facts on which they are based , are contained in the sim ?
ple principles here developed : thus , the theory of universal gravity is here carried out to its ultimatum ; Newton and Boscovich 's theo ?
ries of alternate attractions and repulsions are derived from facts which depend on the alternate atmospheres , and neutral spaces of tenacious atoms ; Sir Humphry Davy 's theory of electrical energies , Dr. Dalton 's atomic theory , and the theory of the diffusion of gases , Dr. Black 's theory of latent heat , Gay-Lussac 's theory of volumes , Newton 's theory of light , or the theory of the emission of light , the undulatory theory , and very many others are here united in the most simple principles , which are , therefore , strongly recommended to the notice of philosophers .
"

