V. " Researches on the Foraminifera."-Fourtl and concluding Series .
By W. B. CARPENTER , M.D.,.R.S .
, F.G.S. , F.L.S. &amp;c. Received June 14 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) The author in this communication brings to a conclusion that series of inquiries into the structural and physiological characters of typicalforms of Foraminifera , which he had been induced to work out for the sake of turning to the account of Zoological science the valuable collections made by Mir .
Jukes in the Australian Seas and by Mr. Cuming in the Philippine .
The first genus now treated of is Poly.stomella , the smaller and simpler forms of which have long been known , and of which the structure , so far as it can be elucidated by the examination of such specimens , has been already described with great care and acculracy by Professor W. C. Williamson .
But in the comparatively gigantic and highly developed Polystomella of the Australian and Philippine series , a feature exists which is scarcely discernible in the humbler forms previously examined-that feature being the extraordinary development of the canal-system .
A spiral canal runs along the inner margin of either surface of every whorl ; from this canal a series of arches is given off , of which one passes down between every two adjacent segments , uniting it with the other spiral canal ; whilst another set of straight branches passes directly towards the surface of the shell , through the thick calcareouLs deposit which covers in the depressed centre of the spire , and which extends as far as the lastformed spire .
From the connecting arches , successive pairs of diverging branches proceed at frequent intervals ; these , in the last whorl , make their way to the surface of the shell , and ( when the shell is newly formed ) open close on either side of the septal band ; though , as the shell increases in thickness by subsequient deposit , the increased divergence of the branches separates their mouths from each other ; and it very commonly happens that the two contiguous branches diverging from different arches meet and open by a single external pore half-way between the septal bands .
When one whorl , however , has been surrounded by another , this radiating canal-system of the inner whorl does not usually continue itself directly into that of the outer ( though such a continiuation is not unafrequently sec y ) , but the diverging canals for the most part terminate in the stolons of communication betweeni the segments of sarcode that occupy the chambers of the outer whorl .
The evidence afforded by the distribution of the canal-system in Polystomella is decidedly confirmatory of the view expressed by the author on a former occasion , that this peculiar set of inosculating passages is related to the formation and nutrition of those solid calcareous layers which strenigthen and connect the proper walls of the chambers , and to which he has given the designation of the intermediate skeleton .
" This view derives strong confirmation from the still more extensive distribution and greater importance of the canal-system of Calcarina , a genus of which Mr. Cuming 's Philippine collection affords a most remarkable series of illustrations .
This type may be considered as closely allied to Polystomella in the disposition and mode of communication of its chambers , save that the spire is generally more or less inequilateral .
Its " " intermediate skeleton " is , however , much more developed ; and it extends itself into a variable number of prolongations , sometimes simply club-shaped , sometimes more or less ramifying , which radiate in different directions from the central body , giving it somewhat the appearance of a spur-rowel , whence its generic designation .
( Any approach to this configuration is occasionally presented by the common Polystomella crispa , as also by some other species of Polystomella .
) Now the independence of the intermediate skeleton and of the spiral system of chambers is curiously shown by the disproportionate development which they respectively exhibit the one to the other , and by their occasional complete disconnexion , the spire altogether departing from its usual course , and ( as it were ) runining wild , whilst the intermediate skeleton with its prolongations still present their ordinary configuration .
The nutrition of the initermediate skeleton seems to be provided for by a system of large canals , freely inosculating with each other , which originate on the sides of the chambers , and are continiued through the whole thickness of the intermediate skeleton , some of them passing directly to its nearest surface , whilst others are continued to the terminations of its radiating prolongations .
It is not a little remarkable that a Foraminiferous organism should present itself so extremely resembling the preceding as to be easily mistaken for it , and yet essentially differing from it in its plan of structure .
This is the case with a type of which some remarkable specimens occur in Mr. Cuming 's collection , and of which some smaller examples have been kindly put into the author 's hands by Dr. J. E. Gray .
As it seems to be identical with the body described by Montfort under the designation Tinoporus taculatus , it may be right to retain that name , although it had been abandoned under the impression that it was a mere synonym of Calcarina .
The structure of this body will be better inderstood after the description of a simpler form , which seems to be generally diffused through the seas of warmer latitudes , but of which the most remarkable examples present themselves in Mr. Jukes 's Australian dredgings .
Its shape is extremely variable , being sometimes an almost perfect sphere , in other cases resembling the lower half of a sugar-loaf , whilst in other cases again it is a -very irregular depressed cone .
It seems originally to have grown attached to zoophytes , corals , &amp;c. , since it frequently presents indications of such former attachment , though it is rarely to be met with otherwise than free .
It is , moreover , very closely allied in structure to the body which has been termed Polytrema miniaceum , under the belief that it was a Polyzoan Coral , but whose Foraminiferous affinities have been already perceived by Dr. Gray , who has proposed for it the generic name of Pustulipora .
In the commencement of its growth , this organism seems closely to resemble Planorbulina , being formed of an assemblage of chambers arranged on one plane , spirally towards the centre , but irregularly clustered towards the circumference ; each chamber communicating by single large septal orifices with the two contiguous chambers of the same row , whilst its walls are perforated with numerous large pseudopodian foramina .
This first-formed plane , however , is afterwards covered-in above and below by numerous successive layers of similar cells , which are piled one upon another in very regular rows ; the original spiral type of growth being altogether lost in these superposed layers .
In this mode the organism comes to present a near relationship to the fossil genus Orbitoides* ; the principal difference being that the superposed layers are not so completely differentiated from the original median layer in Tinoporus as they are in Orbitoides .
Now in Tinoporus 6aculatus we often find columns of solid shellsubstaniee interposed between the angular partitions of the piles of superposed cells , just as they are in Orbitoides , their summits being visible on the surface as projecting tubercies ; these columns are perforated with pseudopodian canals , which are extensions of the pores in the walls of the chambers over which they lie .
And the peculiar stellate projections which give to this species so much the aspect of a Calcarina are for the most part formed of a similar growth ; for though the chambered structure is continued for a short distance as a conical protuberance into the base of each , yet this cone is invested and extended by a sheath of solid shell-substance , which is perforated by pseudopodian tubes extending through it from the chambers .
The last type of Foramniniferous structure described in this communication is one which appears to furnish a highly interesting link of connexion between Foraminifera and Sponges .
Its nature was at first entirely misunderstood ; the specimens in Mr. Cuming 's collection having been supposed , not only by Mr. Cuming , but by other conchologists , to be shells of a sessile Cirripede .
Their external resemblance might readily justify such an inference ; since they are irregular cones , apparently composed of distilct valves , attached by a spreading base to the surface of shells or corals , and having a single orifice at their apex .
A careful examination of the interior structure , however , makes it evident that the shell is multilocular , and that it is formed upon the type of the Helicostegue Foraminifera , closely resembling Globigerina in the commaiencement of its growth ; the supposed 'valves ' being the walls of the outer whorl , the chambers of which are very large , and are lpartially subdivided by incomplete septa .
All the principal chambers communicate by orifices of their own with a sort of central funnel which leads to the external orifice ; and thus their relation to it is very much that of the separate orifices of the chambers of Globigerina to its umbilicus .
The cavities of the chambers are occupied by a spongeous tissue , which contains siliceous spicules ; and although the possibility that this spongy substance may be parasitic must not be lost sight of , yet reasons are given which seem to render it almost certain that this is the proper body of the organism , on which Dr. Gray , who first discerned its true affinities , has conferred the generic name of Caipenteria .
The author concludes with some general observations upon the mutual affinities of the " typical forms " of Foraminifera whose structure he has now elucidated ; and he sums up the evidence which his examination of them has furnished in regard to the very wide range of variation which seems especially to characterize this group , avowing his conviction that the only classification of it which can approach to a really natural arrangement , will be one founded utpon the idea of " descenit with modification " as the means by which an almost infinite variety of special forms has been evolved from a few fundamental types .

