]\gt ; The Effect of of ectricity Hot By Professor H. A. ILSON , , Londoli .
( Received Jannary 23 , \mdash ; Read February 13 , 1908 .
) ( Abstract .
) The effect of hydrogen on the discharge of ative electricity from hot Dlatinum was examined by the writer in it was found to produce a large increase in the current .
The uents were all done with nearly new platinum wires which had not been heated in for any reat length of time , because it was known that long-continued auses the wire to rate .
The present paper contains an of a eries of experiments in which wires were heated for long periods in , so that any changes in the effect of the ] could be )bserved .
It appears that continued in hydrogen Cers the Jharacter of the effects observed so that tlJe behaviour of an old wire may ) different from that of a new one .
The gies a short abstl.act of each section of the paper:\mdash ; 1 .
that x , where denotes the current per square centimetre of platinum at constant temperature , is the pressure of the hydrogen , and are quantities depending only on the temperature , and also bhat , where denotes the absolute temperature and A and lepend only on the pressure ; it is proved that : ( 1 ) , where and are consCants ; ( 2 ) ; and ( 3 ) .
These tions are hown to with the observations .
from ( 2 ) and ives A. It is lown that all the values of A and for new wires satisfy this relation , those for wires in air .
The equation ( 3 ) is therefore modified to , where , equal to , is the value of A in air or when .
Thi equation represents all the values of A. With ( 4 ) this giveS The equation may now be written If , then , so that the effect of hydrogen can be represented by supposing that it without altering A. 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 202 , 1903 , p. ) .
LXXX.\mdash ; A. Prof. H. A. Wilson .
Effect of drogen on the [ Jan. 23 , If , then , so that the effect of hydrogen can be presented by supposing that it changes A without altering Q. These formulae are shown to be in reement with observations by rent observers over a very wide of temperature and pressure .
Assuming that the effect of the is due to its presence in the surface layer of the platinum , the concIusion is drawn that the hydrogen in new wires is dissolved in the platinum .
The agreement between the formula obtained and the vations shows that the equation which was assumed at start is correct .
2 .
It is shown that the leak from a wire which has been heated in hydrogen at a pressure for some time is nearly independent of the pressure at constant temperature between and 200 mm. of mercury .
The conclusion is drawn that the wire in a state of stable chemical combination , and some experiments are described which seem to support this view .
3 .
The variation of the leak with the temperature , from a wire giving a leak independent of the pressure , is measured , and is found to be 135,000 and A to be .
These values do not satisfy the relation which agrees with all the values of A and for new wires .
On heating the wire in air , and then rain in hydrogen at a small pressure , it is found to give the same leak as a new wire in hydrogen , but the leak takes longer time than before to get to its final value after the pressure has been changed .
The conclusion is drawn that heating in hydrogen at a pressure produces a permanent change in the state of the platinum , which is not removed by heating in air , and which causes the hydrogen to dissolve more slowly in the platinum , but does not affect the final value of the leak .
The leak in .
is about the same at high temperatures as with a new wire .
4 .
It is shown that a wire which has been heated in hydrogen at a high , and then in air , on heating in hydrogen at 1600o C. gives the same leak as in air .
But at lower temperatures the leak after a time rises to the usual value in hydrogen , and is then large at 160 C. also .
The conclusion is drawn that the wire does not absorb hydrogen above 1600o C. If the temperature is raised when the leak has only partially recovered from its initial very small value , then it falls on raising the temperature and rises fain on lowering it .
5 .
It is shown that the resistance of the wire is slightly increased when it absorbs hydrogen .
A wire ivin a large leak independent of the pressure was heated for some hours in a good vacuum , and then on heating in air the esistance fell slightly .
The conclusion is drawn that the wire still contained 1908 .
] Discha ' of Negatire Hot hydrogen .
Reasons are ) eriven for .
that the stable compound only exists in the face laycl of the platinnm .
6 .
In this section it is shown that the recovel.y of the leak described in Section 4 can be accelerated by passing an ordinary through ths from the wire to a nei , , electrode .
7 .
The tive leak in is the positive leak in oxygen , and it is that there is a close between them .
The conclusion is drawn that the ative leak is by in the same way that the positive leak is produced by In the absence of hydrogen there is , , a small ative leak due to the platinum alone .
8 .
In this section it is shown that if the true value of A in the is denoted ) , and if is supposed to be umaffected by the , then the true value of is iveu by the equatlon .
It is shown that the variation of the ative leak from lime with the temperature , as measured by Dr. Horton , is not really inconsistent with the view that is proportional to the number of free electrons per cubic centimetre of lime .
9 .
This section contains a theory of the variation of , with the It is assumed that there is an electrical double layer at the surface of platinum , and that the electric force in this layer is increased by the presence of electl'ons in it between the two layers .
The increase due to this cause is shown to be greater at higher temperatures .
It is where is is charge per unit area in the layers , and is distance between the layers .
This gives It is found that a value for can be obtained which makes ) nearly constant .
is explained by supposing that the hydrogen } in the platinum positively charged , and act by ) of the negative in the double layer without altering Adopting this value of as the true value , is foumd to ) cn which agrees with the thickness of the double layer on hydrogen in dilute sulphuric acid .
The carried by the in 1 .
of the platinum is found to be electrostatic unitc which shows that there are eight free electrons to each atonl of platinum .
382 Effect of Hydrogen on of Electricity .
This agrees with the fact that platinum is an octovalent element .
The values found for are the following:\mdash ; The value of adopted is , but this may be in error by a factor of 10 or more .
C'onclusion .
The view taken in this paper is that the effect of the on the leak is due to its presence in surface layer of the platinum .
To explain this it is supposed that the hydrogen atoms in the layer are positively , so that they diminish the charge per unit area in the electrical double layer covering the surface of the platinum .
The hydrogen appears to dissolve in the platinum at first , but at high pressures in time forms a stable combination with the platinum , having a very small dissociation pressure .
Before this compound has been formed , the leak is proportional to a power of the pressure of the hydrogen .

