IV .
" On the Structure and Affinities of Eozoon Canadeuse .
" In a Letter to the President .
By W. B. CARPENT Eu , M.DLX , F.R.S. Received December 14,1864 .
I cannot doubt that your attention has been drawn to the discovery announced by Sir Charles Lyell in his Presidential Address at the late Meeting of the British Association , of large masses of a fossil organism referable to the Foraminiferous type , near the base of the Laurenitian series of rocks in Canada .
The geological position of this fossil ( almost 40,000 feet beneath the base of the Siluriain system ) is scarcely more remarkable than its zoological relations ; for there is found in it the evidence of a most extraordinary development of that Rhizopod type of animal life which at the present time presents itself only in forms of comparative insignificance -a development which enabled it to separate carbionate of lime from the ocean-waters in qiiantity sufficient to produce masses rivalling in bulk and solidity those of the stony corals of later epochs , and thius to furnish ( as there seems good reason to believe ) the materials of those calcareous strata which occur in the higher parts of the Laurentian series .
Although a detailed account of this discovery , including the results of the microscopic examinations into the structure of the fossil which have been made by Dr. Dawson and myself , has been already communicated to the Geological Society by Sir William E. Logaii , I venture to believe that the Fellows of the Royal Society may be glad to be more directly made acquainted with my view of its relations to the types of Foraminifera which I have already described in the Philosophical Transactions .
The massive skeletons of the Rhizopod to which the name Eozoon Canadense has been given , seem to have extended themselves over the surface of suibmarine rocks , their base frequently reaching a diameter of 12 incehes , and their thickness being usually from 4 to 6 inches .
A vertical section of one of these masses exhibits a more or less regular alternation of calcareous and siliceous layers , these being miiost distinct in the basal portion .
The specinmens which the kindness of Sir William E. Logan has given me the opportunity of examining , are composed of carbonate of lime alternating with serpentine the calcareous layers being formed by the original skeleton of the animal , whilst the serpentine has filled up the cavities once occupied by its sarcode-body .
In other specimens the carbonate of lime is replaced bY dolomite , and the serpenitinie by pyroxenie , Loganite , or some other mineral of which silex is a prinicipal constituent .
The regtular alternation of calcareous and siliccous layers wlichl is chaaracteristic of the basal portion of these masses , frequently gives place in the more superficial parts to a muitual interpenetrationi of these minerals , the green spots of the serpentine being scattered over the surface of the section , instead of being collected in continuous bands , so as to give it a granular instead of a striated aspect .
This differenice we shall find to depencl upon a departure from the typical plani of growtl , which ofteni occurs ( as in other Foraminifera ) in the later stages the minute ehambers being no loniger arranged in continuous tiers , but being piled together irregularly , in a manner resembling that in which the cancelli are disposed at the extremities of a long bone .
The minulte structure of this organism may be determined by the microscopic examination either of tlinl transparenit sections , or of portions which have been sulbnitted to the action of dilute acid , so as to remove the calcareouis shell , leaving only the siliecous casts of the chambers and other cavities originially occupied by the substance of the animal .
Each of these modes of examinationi , as I have shown on a former occasion * , has its peculiar advantages ; and the combination of both , here permitted by the pecuiliar mode in which the Eozoon has become fossilized , gives us a most complete represelntationi not only of the skeleton of the animal , but of its soft sareodebody , and its minute pseudopodial extensions as they existed during life .
In well-preserved specimens of Eozoon , the shelly substance often retainis its characters so distinctly , that the details of its structure can be even more satisfactorily made out than can those of most of the comparatively modern Nummulites .
And even thel hue of the origilnal sareode seems traceable in the canal-system ; so exactly does its aspect , as shown in transparent sectionis , correspond with that of similar canals in recent specimens of Polystomella , Calcarina , &amp;c. in which the sarcode-body has been dried .
This last circumstanice appears to me to afford a remarkable confirmation of the opiniion formed by Mr. Sterry Ilunit upon mineralogical grounds-that the siliceous ilnfiltration of the cavities of the Eozoon was the result of changes occurring before the decomposition of the animal .
Anid the extraordinary completeness of this inifiltration may be the result ( as was suggested by Professor Mlilne-Edwards with regard to the infiltrationi of fossil bones and teeth , in the course of the discussioni which took llace last year on the Abbeville jaw ) of the superiority of the process of substitution , in which the animal matter is replaced ( particle by particle ) by some mineral substance , over that of mere penetration .
The Eozoon in its living state might be likened to ain extensive range of building made up of successive tiers of chambers , the chambers of each tier for the most part communicating very freely with each other ( like the secondary chambers of Carpenteri , so that the segments of the sarcodic layer which occupied them were intimately colnnected , as is showln by the continuity of their siliceous models .
The proper walls of these chambers are everywhere formed of a pellucid vitreous shell-substance millutely perforated with parallel tubuli , so as exactly to correspond with that of Nummulites , Cycloclypeus , and Operculinat ; and even these minute tubuli are so penetrated by siliceous infiltration , that when the calcareous shell has been removed by acid , the internal casts of their cavities remain in the form of most delicate needles , standing parallel to one another on the solid mould of the cavity of the chamnber , over which they form a delicate filmy layer .
But , between the proper walls of the successive tiers of chambers , there usually intervene layers of very variable thick.ness , composed of a homogeneous shell-substance ; and these layers represent the " intermediate " or " supplemental " skeleton which I have described in several of the larger FORAMINIFERA , and which attains a peculiar development in Calcarina T. And , as in Calcarina and other recent and fossil FORAMINIFERA , this " intermediate skeleton " is traversed by a " canal-system " ?
that gave passage to the prolongations of the sarcode-body , by the agency of which the calcareous substance of this intermediate skeleton seems to have been deposited .
The distribution of this canal-system , although often well displayed in transparent sections , is most beautifully shown ( as in Polystomella 11 ) by the siliceous casts which are left after the solution of the shell , these casts being the exact models of the extensions of the sareode-body that originally occupied its passages .
In those portions of the organism in which the chambers , instead of being regilarly arranged in floors , are piled together in an " I acervuline " manner , there is little trace either of " ; intermediate skeleton " or of " canal-system " ; but the characteristic structure of their proper walls is still unmistakeably exhibited .
Whilst , therefore , I most fully accordv with Dr. lDawson in referring the Eozoon CGanadense , notwithstanding its massive dimensions and its zoophytic mode of growth , to the group of FORAMINIFE RA , I am led to regard its immediate affinity as being rather with the Nummutline than with the Rotaline series-that affinity being marked by the structure of the proper wall of the chambers , which , as I have elsewhere endeavoured to show F , * Phil. Trans. 1860 , p. 566 .
t Ibid. 1856 , p. 558 , and pl. xxxi .
figs. 9 &amp; 10 .
: Ibid. 1860 , p. 553 . ?
Ibid. 1860 , p. 554 , plato xx .
fig. 3 .
11 Ibid. 1860 , plate xviii .
fig. 12 .
ST Introduction to the Stucly of the Foraminifera , chap .
iii , is a character of primary importance in this group , the plan of growth and the mode of commuinication of the chambers being of secondary value , and the disposition of the " intermediate skeleton " and its " ; canal-system " being of yet lower account .
I cannot refrain from stopping to draw your attention to the fact , that the organic structure and the zoological affinities of this body , which was at first supposed to be a product of purely physical operations , are thus determinable by the m-icroscopic examination of an area nio larmer than a pin-hole-and that we are thus enabled to predicate the niature of the living action by which it was produced , ait a , geological epoch whose remoteness in tiane carries us even beyond the range of the imagination , with no less certainity than the astronomer cani now , by the aid of " ' spectrulm anaysis , " determine the chenlical and physical constitution of bodies whose remoteness in space alike transcends our power to conceive .
The only objections which are likely to be raised by palveontologists to such a determination of the nature of Eozoon , would be suggested by its zoophytic mode of growth , and by its gigantic size .
The first objection , however , is readily disposed of , since I have elsewhere shown * that a minute organism long r-anked as zoophytic , and described by Lamarck under the designation Miillepora rubra , is really but an aberrant form of the Rotaline family of FORAMINIFERA , its peculiarity consisting only in the mode of increase of its body , every segmenit of which has the characteristic structure of the Rotalinm ; and thus , so far from presenting a difficulty , the zoophytic character of Eozoon leads us to assign it a place in the Nuimmuline series exactly corresponding to that of Polytrema in the Rotaline .
And the objection arising from the size and massiveness of Eozoon loses all its force when we bear in mindI that the increase of FORAMINIFERA generally takes place by gemmation , and that the size which any individual may attain mainly depends ( as in the Vegetable kingdom ) uponl the number of segments which bud continuously from the original stock , instead of detaching themselves to form independent organisms ; so that there is no essential difference save that of continuity , between the largest mass of Eozoon and an equal mass male up of a multitude of Nummulites .
Moreover there is other evidence that very early in the Paloeozoic age the Foraminiiferous type attained a development to which we have nothing comparable at any later epech ; for it has been shown by Mr. J. W. Salter t that the structure of the supposed coral of the Silu rian series to which the nam-e Receptaculites has been given , so closely corresponds with that which I have demonstrated in certain forms of the Or6itolite type , as to leave no doubt of their initimate relationship , although the disks of Receptaculites sometimes attain a diameter of 12 inches , whilst that of the largest Orbitolite I have seem does not reach 18uths of an inch .
And it is further remarkable in this instarice , that the gigantic size attained by Receptaculites proceeds less from an extraordinary multiplication of segments , than from such an eniormous development of the individuial segments as naturallto suggest grave doubts of the character of this fossil , until the exactness of its structural conformity to its comparatively minute recent representative had been worked out .
In a private communication to myself , Dr. Dawson has expressed the belief that Stroomatopora and several other reputed corals of the Palseozoic series will prove in reality to be gigantic Zoophytic Rhizopods , like Eozoon and Recepctaculites ; and I have little doubt that further inquiry will justify this anticipation .
Should it prove correct , our ideas of the importance of the Rhizopod type in the earlier periods of geological hiistory will undergo a vast extension ; and manaiy questions will arise in regard to its relations to those higher types which it would seem to have aniticipated .
In the present state of our knowledge , however , or rather of our igilorance , I think it better to leave all such questionis undiscussed , limiting myself to the special object of this communicationi the application of my former IResearches into the Minute Structure of the Foraminifera , to the determination of the nature and affinities of the oldest type of Organic Life yet known to the geologist .

