1872 .
] On Colouring-matters derived from Aromatic Azodiamines .
431 IV .
\#171 ; Colouring-matters derived from Aromatic ] Azodiamines .
" By A. W. Hofmann , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and A. Geyger , Ph. D. Received June 12 , 1872 .
I. Azodiphenyl Blue .
About three years ago one of ns* laid before the German Chemical Society the results of some experiments on the naphthaline dye commercially called Magdala Red .
These experiments showed that the dye in question represents three molecules of naphthylamine which have lost three molecules of hydrogen , and that it is formed by the action of naphthylamine on azodinaphthyldiamine with separation of one molecule of ammonia .
C20H13N3 + C10H9N = C30H21N3 + H , N. Azcxlinaplithyldiainine .
Napkthylamine .
Naphthaline red .
The idea occurred to us of studying this reaction in other series and in other combinations .
Preliminary experiments showed at once that aniline , as well as toluidine salts , readily act on azodinaphthyldiamine , forming perfectly similar red colouring-matters ; and the question finally presented itself , whether to this group of dyes might not belong also the blue body which MM .
Martius and Griessf produced by treating azodiphenyldia-mine with salts of aniline , as mentioned in their interesting paper on Amido-diphenylimide , but which has not as yet been more minutely investigated .
The solution of this question by experiment appeared all the more desirable , since the composition of a compound likely thus to be formed would in all probability coincide with that of violaniline which MM .
Girard , De Laire , and Chapoteaut^ ; obtained by the oxidation of pure aniline .
We have performed these experiments .
For the preparation of the blue colouring-matter derived from azodi-pbenyldiamine , which , for the sake of shortness , we will call azodiphenyl blue , equal weights of the pure azo base and aniline chlorhydrate with twice the weight of alcohol were heated in hermetically sealed tubes to Ifib C. for four or five hours .
After the lapse of this time a dark blue pasty mass had been formed ; no gaseous compounds were produced in the reaction .
For the purpose of purification , the crude product , which was at once recognized to be a chlorhydrate , was treated with boiling water 111 01 ^cr to remove unaltered aniline salt and sal-ammoniac formed in !
le process ; it was then dissolved in alcohol with addition of chlor-.yaric acid , and precipitated by soda .
The base thus separated was carefully washed with water to free it from soda , and then dissolved in mg alcohol ; the liquid was then mixed with chlorhydric acid and sub-iritted to distillation .
As soon as half the alcohol had passed over , a dark * Hofmann , 1 Bcrichte , ' 18G9 , pp. 374 , 412 .
t Monatsberichte der Berliner Akademie , 18G5 , p. 640 .
t Comp. Bend .
tom .
lxiii .
p. 964 .
432 Messrs. A. W. Hofmann A. Geyger on [ June 20 , blue and slightly crystalline salt was found to be deposited on cooling .
This salt is insoluble in water , but readily dissolves in alcohol , especially when heated .
The solution is of a deep violet-blue colour , which is fixed 1 by wool and silk , but cannot possibly be compared to the tints of the substituted rosanilines for brilliancy or beauty .
The blue chlorhydrate is perfectly insoluble in ether .
When soda is added to the concentrated alcoholic solution of the salt , the base is separated as a dark-brown powder which is insoluble in water , but dissolves in alcohol and ether with a red-brown colour .
On addition of chlorhydric acid , the alcoholic solution assumes a pure blue tint ; the ethereal solution , on the other hand , becomes perfectly colourless , the blue salt being precipitated .
Treated with granulated zinc in presence of alcohol and chlorhydric acid , the solution of the salt is decolorized , but becomes blue again on exposure to the air .
An attempt to prepare a leuko base in this manner failed ; nor was an experiment made with ammonium sulphide more successful .
Analysis of the chlorhydrate just described , as well as of some other salts derived from it , showed that the reaction between azodiphenyldiamine and aniline indeed takes place , exactly as our knowledge of the analogous experiment in the naphthaline series had led us to expect .
In forming the blue body one molecule of azodiphenyldiamine and one molecule of aniline unite with separation of one molecule of ammonia , C12HnN3 + C6H7N = C18H15N3 + H3N .
Azodiplienyldiamine .
Azodipheny ] blue .
Chlorhydrate.\#151 ; This salt , the preparation of which we have described , has been repeatedly examined .
Analyses of the compound dried at 100 ' C. led to the formula C18H18N3 , HC1 .
The salts of azodiphenyl blue show but little stability .
The chlorhydrate just mentioned loses a portion of its acid even by recrystallization from alcohol .
The salt with 11*28 per cent , chlorine , after a single recrystallization from alcohol , contained only 9*85 per cent. In fact the normal salt cannot he obtained except in presence of an excess of chlorhydric acid .
When we tried to purify the crude product of the reaction by washing out the soluble salts and recrystallizing it without addition of acid , the percentage of chlorine fell in one case to 5*9 , and in another even as low as 2*1 per cent. By merely drying at a. higher temperature , the salt loses a portion of its acid .
The normal salt , which for a considerable time had been dried at a temperature of 150 ' C. , had lost nearly all its acid .
Iodhydrate.\#151 ; This salt is obtained like the chlorhydrate , viz. by treating the free base with iodhydric acid .
In its properties't scarcely differs from the chlorhydric salt .
To establish the formula , we navt limited ourselves to an estimation of the iodine in the salt dried at 100 ' C. The formula of the compound is Om .
HuN " HI .
872 ] Colouring-matters derived from Aromatic Azodiamines .
433 We have finally analyzed the Picrate.\#151 ; It is easily formed when the alcoholic mother-liquor of the cblorhydric salt of azodiphenyl blue is precipitated by an alcoholic solution of picric acid .
The picrate is a blue powder perfectly insoluble in water and ether , and only very slightly soluble in boiling alcohol .
For analysis , the precipitated salt was carefully washed with water and dried at 100 ' G. Its composition is represented by the formula C21H13 N8 07 = C18 H15 Ns , C6 H3 ( N02)3 O. As has been already stated in the beginning of this note , the colouring-matter which we call Azodiphenyl blue possesses exactly the same composition as violaniline , which MM .
Girard , De Laire , and Chapoteaut have prepared by oxidizing pure aniline , 3G6 H7 N\#151 ; 3HH=C18 H15 N3 .
Are these two bodies identical ?
We had hoped to be able to decide this question by experiment ; our researches have , however , for the present taken a different direction , so that the question remains an open one .
If instead of an aniline salt the chlorhydrates of toluidine and naphthyl-amine are allowed to act on azodiphenyldiamine , as might have been expected , blue dyes with properties perfectly similar to those of azodiphenyl blue are produced .
It is extremely probable that these compounds are respectively C19H17N3 and C22H17N3 .
These formulae must , however , still be established by analysis .
The attempts here briefly sketched at producing new colouring-matters were capable of expansion in another direction .
Indeed , instead of submitting azodiphenyldiamine to the action of toluidine and naphthylamine , the idea suggested itself of starting from azoditolyldiamine , which would then be treated with aniline and naphthylamine salts .
An azoditolyldiamine exactly corresponding to azodiphenyldiamine remains as yet unknown .
In all his experiments Dr. Martius , who , as he informs us , has repeatedly attempted the preparation of this compound , has invariably obtained only the isomeric body diazoamidotoluol , which is decomposed on boiling .
We have not been more fortunate in our efforts to produce the true analogue of azodiphenyldiamine .
On passing a rapid current of nitrous acid through toluidine heated to fusion on a saturated solution of common salt , the liquid base after some time solidifies to a crystalline mass , which may be easily purified by washing with water and recrystallizing from alcohol .
In this way well-formed dark lemon-coloured needles are obtained .
The analysis of this body , dried in vacuo , shows that it certainly possesses the composition Cu H1S N3 .
However , on boiling this substance with chlorhydric acid , it is readily decomposed to cressol and toluidine , giving off quantities of nitrogen , CUH]3N3 + H20 = C7H80 + C7H9N + 2N .
434 On the present Variation of the Compass .
[ June 20 , The body formed in our experiments is thus found to be .
Xuoland not azoditolyldiamine , the latter , as before , still remaining to be discovered .
Since , in consequence of the operations just mentioned , we had in our possession an appreciable quantity of the diazo body , we were not willing to pass by this opportunity of testing , however cursorily , its action on aromatic monamines .
Dyes are in fact produced by treating di-azoamidotoluol with the chlorhydrates of aniline and naphthylamine in alcoholic solution at 150 ' C. The numerous by-products , however , which are formed in these processes sufficiently show that the reaction is by no means a simple one- It is more particularly worthy of remark that in its reaction with aniline salts no trace of the easily recognizable rosaniline was formed , which might have been the case if the true azoditolyldiamine could have been employed .
We have not further studied the products generated in these reactions .
Y. " On the present amount of Westerly Magnetic Declination [ Variation of the Compass ] on the Coasts of Great Britain , and its Annual Changes .
" By Staff Captain Frederick J. Evans , R.N. , F.R.S. , Hydrographic Department of the Admiralty ( in charge of Magnetic Department ) .
Received June 15,1872 .
( Abstract .
) The rapidly accelerating value within the last few years of the annual decrease of the westerly magnetic declination over the whole area of the United Kingdom and the adjacent seas , as .
observed at the fixed magnetic observatories of Greenwich , Kew , Brussels , Paris , and also at Christiania in Norway , is a subject of importance in practical navigation as affecting the compass-bearings derived from charts and those laid down for the guidance of pilots .
The attention of the Hydrographic Department of the Admiralty ha* been constantly directed to this interesting physical fact ; and as the duties of Her Majesty 's surveying-vessels employed on our shores between the years 1866 and 1870 embraced nearly the whole extent of coast-line , advantage was thus taken , undert^he orders of Rear-Admiral Richards , C.B. , F.R.S. , the Hydrographer , to determine , with great attention to accuracy , the magnetic declination at widely spread and favourable localities .
The observations thus made by the surveying officers of Her Majesty s Navy are given in detail , with the corrections for secular change , to the 1st January 1872* , for which epoch a chart of the British Islands , exhibiting the lines of magnetic declination of equal value , is also appended .
By comparing these lines with the corresponding lines given in the Decimal00 chart for 1842*5 , Phil. Trans , for 1870 , art .
xiv .
, " Contributions to * A mean value of 19 ' 40 ' being assumed for the westerly magnetic declination at Greenwich Observatory for this epoch .

