III .
" Results of the Magnetic Observations at the Kew Observatory , from 1858 to 1862 inclusive."--No .
II .
By MajorGeneral EDWARD SABINE , P.R.S. Received June 18 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is a continuation of the preceding one .
It consists of two sections , the seventh and eighth .
In the seventh section the author discusses the secular change and annual variation of the declination ; and in the eighth section , the annual variation or semiannual inequality of the inclination and of the horizontal and total magnetic force .
Seventh Section.-The positions of the horizontal magnet at 24 equidistant epochs in the day , tabulated from the photograms of the Kew declinometer , with the omission of the disturbed observations , as described in the former paper , are grouped in weekly means , forming 52 mean values , corresponding to the number of weeks in the year .
A Table is given of these weekly values , comprehending , in five columns , the five years from January 1858 to December 1862 inclusive , and from these a sixth column is formed , representing the mean declination in each of the 52 weeks of a mean or typical year , corresponding in this instance to the year 1860 .
The mean declination obtained from all the weekly results in the five years , and corresponding to its middle epoch July 1 , 1860 , is 21ยง 39 ' 18"f1 ; and from a comparison of the mean declinations corresponding to July 1 in the 1863 .
] 625 columns which severally present the weekly values in the years from 1858 to 6182 inclusive , the mean value of the secular change corresponding to the period comprised in the Table is deduced .
A proportional part of the secular change is then applied with its appropriate sign to each of the weekly values in the mean or typical year .
These should all correspond with the mean declination of the whole Table ( viz. 21ยง 39 ' 18 " -1 ) , or should exhibit only such small and unsystematic differences as might reasonably be ascribed to casual errors .
The final column of the Table contains these differences , in which it is at once seen that they divide themselves into two distinct categories , distinguished by the sign in the semiannual period from March 21 to Sept. 21 , and by the + sign from Sept. 21 to March 21 .
Hence the author infers the existence of a variation in the declination at Kew having an annual period , and consisting of a semiannual inequality with epochs coincident , or nearly so , with the sun 's passage of the equator the magnet being deflected towards the east when the sun is north , and towards the west when he is south of the equator .
The amount of the semiannual inequality , as shown by the Table , averages 28"'95 in the weeks from March 21 to Sept. 21 , and 29"'9 in those from September to March .
The whole amount of the annual variation at Kew is therefore 58"'85 .
The result thus obtained from the observations at Kew is compared with the result of an investigation of the corresponding phenomena at Hobarton in the southern hemisphere , obtained from hourly observatious of the declination during five years , commencing in October 1843 , and terminating in September 1848 .
The observations themselves are published in the 2nd and 3rd volumes of the Hobarton Observations , and are treated , for the purposes of this paper , precisely in the same way as those of the Kew Observatory , forming a table strictly analogous to the one , previously described , at Kew .
The final column of the Hobarton Table exhibits the differences , in each of the 52 weeks of the typical year , from the mean declination derived from the whole of the observations in the five years .
The + and signs in this column attest in as striking a manner as do those at Kew , the existence at Hobarton of a semiannual inequality of which the epochs coincide , or very nearly so , with the sun 's passage of the equator : the direction of the deflection is the same as at Kew , viz. , of the north end of the magnet 626 [ June 18 , 1863 .
] towards the east when the sun is north of the equator , and to the west when he is south of the equator .
The amount of the deflection in the first-named semiannual period is , on the average , 19"'1 in each week ; and in the opposite semiannual period 19 " ; making together an annual variation of 38 " ' 1 .
The author then refers to the result of a similar investigation of the phenomena at St. Helena in the equatorial zone , the particulars of which have been already published in the 2nd volume of the St. Helena Observations .
The result , derived from eight years of observation , of which five years were hourly , evidences at that station also the existence of a semiannual inequality with epochs coinciding , or nearly so , with the equinoxes the deflections being also in the same directions as those at Kew and Hobarton , viz. , to the east when the sun is north , and to the west when he is south , of the equator .
The amount of the annual variation thus produced is less at St. Helena than at either Kew or Iobarton the semiannual difference being about 7 ' ?
, and the annual variation 14 " .
The author remarks that the difference in the amount of deflection at the three stations may , in part at least , be occasioned by the difference in amount of the antagonistic force of the earth 's magnetism , tending to retain the magnet in its mean position in opposition to all disturbing causes .
The antagonistic force , viz. the horizontal component of the earth 's magnetic force , is approximately 5'6 ( in British units ) at St. Helena , 4*5 at Hobarton , and 3'8 at Kew .
In a note appended subsequently to the delivery of this paper , viz. on June 19 , 1863 , the author refers to a similar investigation of the phenomena at the Cape of Good Hope , published in 1851 , in the 1st volume of the magnetical observations at that station .
The volume contains the fortnightly means of the declination from July 1842 to July 1846 , corrected for secular change , and collected in Table III .
, page v , of that volume .
The differences of the declination in each fortnight , so corrected , from the mean declination of the whole period , are shown in its final column .
The mean of the thirteen fortnights ( in the four years ) between March 26 and Sept. 23 , is 0'4 more easterly , and of the thirteen fortnights between September 24 and March 25 , 0'4 more westerly than the mean value-showing an annual variation of 0'8 ( or 48 " ) , or a semiannual inequality averaging 24 " to the east in the thirteen fortnights from March 26 627 to Sept. 23 , and 24 " to the west in the thirteen fortnights from Sept. 24 to March 25 .
This is in accordance with the conclusions at all the other stations at which the phenomena have been subjected to a suitable investigation .
The antagonistic horizontal component of the earth 's magnetism is approximately 4'5 .
Eighth Section .
In the eighth section the author examines the evidence which the monthly determinations of the dip and of the horizontal component of the magnetic force at Kew afford of the existence of a semiannual inequality in the absolute values of the dip and of the total magnetic force .
The results of the monthly determinations from April 1857 to March 1863 are exhibited in two Tables , one appropriated to the dip , and the other to the horizontal force .
The whole series of the determinations of the horizontal force were made with the same unifilar magnetometer and the same collimator magnet throughout , and also by the same observer , Mr. Chambers , one of the assistants at the Kew Observatory .
In the monthly determinations of the dip from April 1857 to September 1860 , twelve different circles , and their twenty-four needles were occasionally employed , the mean of all the observations in each month being taken as the mean result in that month .
There were also several observers in this part of the series , chiefly four .
In the months from October 1860 to March 1863 , one circle with its two needles were the sole instruments , and Mr. Chambers the sole observer .
The probable error of a single monthly determination of the dip in the first part of the series , when several instruments and several observers were employed , is stated to be + 01"69 ; and in the second part of the series , obtained by a single circle and the same observer throughout , the probable error is + 0 ' 75 ; whence it is inferred that the greater number of partial results which contributed to produce the monthly mean in the earlier period more than counterbalanced the diversities which might have been occasioned by the peculiarities of the different observers and of the different instruments .
The probable error of a single monthly determination of the dip , after the application of the corrections for secular change and annual variation , is stated to be + 0'.71 , and of a single monthly determination of the horizontal force derived from the 72 monthly determinations + '0024 .
The results of the monthly determinations at Kew , as bearing 628 upon the question of annual variation , may be briefly stated as follows:-1st .
The dip is subject to an annual variation , which , on the average of the six years , amounts to 1'35 ; consisting of a semiannual inequality with epochs coinciding , or very nearly so , with the equinoxes ; the mean dip being on the average 0'"65 lower than its annual mean value in the six months from April to September , and 0'`7 higher than its annual mean value in the six months from October to March .
2nd .
That the horizontal force is subject to a semiannual inequality having the same epochs-being on the average *0013 higher than its annual mean in each of the six months from April to September , and '0013 lower than its annual mean in each of the months from October to March .
3rd .
That , combining the results of the dip and horizontal force , the total terrestrial magnetic force is expressed in British units by 10'3002 as its mean value in the months from April to September , and by 10'30347 in the months from October to March , -there being thus a difference of 00327 , by which the intensity of the magnetic force of the earth is greater in the months when the sun is south of the equator than in the months when he is north of the equator .
This conclusion is compared with the results obtained in a corresponding manner from the published observations of the Hobarton Observatory , viz. , with the monthly determinations of the horizontal force in the five years from January 1846 to December 1850 inclusive , and with those of the dip in the ten years from January 1841 to December 1850 inclusive .
From these data the conclusions are drawn , 1st , that at Hobarton the dip is subject to an annual variation amounting to 1'18 , consisting of a semiannual inequality with epochs coinciding or nearly so with the equinoxes the ( south ) dip being on the average 0'"59 less in the months from April to September , and 0'"59 greater in the months from October to March than the mean annual value ; and 2nd , that the horizontal force is subject to a similar semiannual inequality , being '0007 less than its mean value in the months from April to September , and '0005 greater in the months from October to March ; and combining these two results , that the total force at Hobarton is expressed in British units by 13-56882 in the months from October to March , and by 13'55195 in the months from April to September : the difference , ?
01687 , expresses the measure of the greater intensity of the earth 's magnetic force when the sun is south than when he is north of the equator .
The author concludes this section of his investigations by drawing the attention of the Royal Society to this concurrent evidence , from the observations of three observatories situated in parts of the globe so distant from each other , of a semiannual inequality having such strong features of resemblance in both hemispheres , and remarks that it seems difficult to assign such effects to any other than to a cosmical cause .
The " inequalities " may in themselves seem to be small ; but judged of scientifically , i. e. in the proportions they bear to their respective probable errors , they are large .

