III .
On some alvine concretions found in the colon of a young man in Lancashire , after death .
By J. G. CHILDREN , Esq. F. R. S. &amp;c. &amp;c. Communicated by the Society for Promoting Animal Chemistry .
Read December 13 , 1821 .
I WAS furnished with the particulars of the following case , through the kindness of JAMES THOMSON , Esq. of Primrose , near Clitheroe .
JOHN CHAMBERS , aged 19 , a carpenter at Clitheroe , in Lancashire , was in the habit , during the hot weather of July 1814 , of refreshing himself whilst at work , by eating a quantity of unripe plums , of which , at various times , he ate several quarts , and generally swallowed the stones , under the erroneous notion entertained by the lower classes in that neighbourhood , that they would assist the digestion of the fruit .
A fellow workman of CHAMBERS , aged 30 , pursued the same practice with impunity .
Not so the unfortunate subject of this communication , who about Christmas began to complain , but still pursued his occupation and worked , with some interruption , till February 1815 , when he applied to Mr. COULTATE , of Clitheroe , for advice , complaining of pain in the abdomen attended with diarrhoea .
Tle abdomen on examination felt tense but not much enlarged , nor had he any feverish symptoms .
When in the workshop , he used to lean against the bench , pressing his stomach hard against it , which , he said , afforded him great relief .
Medicines of an astringent nature were first prescribed , which seemed for a time to be of service , but the diarrhoea ere long increased , extreme emaciation took place , and a hard circumscribed tumour was discovered on one side of the abdomen , which , from the thinness of the abdominal parietes , Mr. COULTATE could distinctly feel was an alvine concretion .
Clysters were then administered , castor oil given , and the abdomen ordered to be rubbed with oil , under the idea of pushing the concretions forward , but in vain ; the patient daily became more and more emaciated , and after about three months attendance he died , on the 6th of May , completely worn out .
His appetite was good , or rather almost voracious , even to within a very short time of his death .
He always felt himself worse after meals .
His stools , especially for some weeks before he expired , were like blood and water .
He was confined to his bed for about three weeks before he died .
On opening the body , the concretions were found lodged in the arch of the colon , three closely compacted together , rather high up on the left side , the fourth considerably lower , approaching the termination of the colon .
The coats of the intestine were much thickened and formed into a sort of pouch , where the concretions lay .
The peritoneum was but little inflamed , the other viscera were healthy .
The concretion which lay by itself was sawed asunder by Mr. COULTATE , and contained a plum stone in the centre .
The body was opened in the presence of the friends of the poor boy , and under circumstances which , unfortunately , prevented Mr. COULTATE from making so minute an examination as he could have wished , and from pressure of business and other unavoidable interruptions , he did not at the time note down all the particulars of the case ; but on referring to the prescriptions , he says that it does not appear that CHAMBERS ever took the smallest quantity of calcined magnesia or its carbonate , during the whole of his attendance .
He had frequent doses of sulphate of magnesia , castor oil , and rhubarb ; and during the latter period of his illness opium was often administered .
CHAMBERS'S usual diet was milk porridge twice a day , viz. at breakfast and supper ; the milk thickened with oatmeal His dinner commonly consisted of meat and potatoes ; he rarely took any other kind of vegetable , and always ate oat cake at his dinner .
In the afternoon he ate oat bread , and cheese , and drank beer ; so that he never took a single repast without oatmeal in some shape or other .
During his illness he occasionally had oatmeal gruel , and sometimes a little beef or mutton broth , into which it is usual in Lancashire to throw , whilst preparing it , a spoonful or two of oatmeal .
He was also requested at this period , to live a good deal on milk and vegetables .
Mr. COULTATE adds , in his letter to Mr. THOMSON , that during the time he acted as assistant to Mr. BARLOW of Blackburn , a case similar to that of CHAMBERS'S came under his care .
The patient was a girl about fourteen years of age .
The concretion had made its way down to the rectum , and was extracted by the forceps .
It was about the size of a hen 's egg , but appeared of a firmer texture , and felt heavier than those taken from CHAMBERS .
The nucleus of this calculus was also a plum stone .
The girl recovered ; and Mr. COULTATE frequently saw her afterwards .
Another case also occurred in the course of Mr. BARLOW'S practice in which eight similar concretions ( the two largest s6 about the size of a hen 's egg , the others much smaller ) were extracted from the rectum of a boy in the neighbourhood of Blackburn .
By the liberality of Messrs. COULTATE and BARLOW , the whole are now deposited in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons .
The concretions are of a light brown colour ; the external coating is in parts firm and compact , and generally pretty smooth , and consists chiefly of a mixture of phosphate of lime and ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate .
In other places the surface has a velvety feel and is composed of very fine fibres closely matted or felted together , and in some places these fibres are collected into considerable masses , as may be particularly seen in the cross section of the remaining half of the one selected for chemical examination .
The husk of an oat was imbedded in the surface of the calculus which had been sawed asunder before I received it .
Their general structure is laminated , and consists of concentric alternating layers of the fibrous substance and the phosphates .
The external form of the concretions is various ; three of them have assumed very solid figures , whilst the middle one of the three that were found lying together , is much flattened by the pressure of the outer ones .
Their total weight , in the state in which I received them , was 2273x grains , or about 4ounces .
The largest weighed 1036 grains .
The smallest 511They have all a very fetid disgusting smell .
I found the specific gravity of the largest calculus at 60o , to be 1.875 .
At first it floated in distilled water with nearly a fourth of its bulk above the surface , but after the air which filled its pores had been extricated , by placing it immersed in water 27 under an exhausted receiver , it sunk readily in that fluid , The calculus selected by Sir EVERARD HOME for analysis , was divided by him , and the plum stone nucleus cut through as in the other .
The unequal distribution of their component parts , renders it impossible that the results of any two analyses should agree very accurately in the relative proportions of the several ingredients of the concretions ; there is no difficulty , however , in ascertaining their nature .
They consist of phosphate of lime and ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate , the former in very much the largest proportion ; of a large portion of animal matter , principally gelatine ; a small portion of resin , and a fine fibrous vegetable substance , from the inner coat enveloping the farina of the oat , which , when the outer husk is removed , is seeii to consist of a number of delicate fibres arranged longitudinally round the farina .
I did not discover any fatty matter , either by the action of boiling water or a weak alkaline solution , nor any of the sub , stances usually found in urinary calculi , except the phosphates already mentioned .
The method I adopted for the chemical examination of the calculus , was , by submitting it successively , ( i ) to the action of cold water ; ( 2 ) of boiling water ; ( 3 ) of alcohol ; ( 4 ) of a dilute solution of caustic soda ; and ( 5 ) , of muriatic acid .
The cold aqueous infusion exhibited no decided trace of albumen , either on being boiled , or by the test of corrosive sublimate .
Sulphate of silver , nluriate of baryta , and oxalate of ammonia rendered it slightly turbid .
By the second and fourth processes I obtained animal matter , consisting chiefly of gelatine .
Its solution in water passed very slowly through the filter whilst cold , more readily when hot .
It was not g8 soluble in alcohol , gave no precipitate with solution of corrosive sublimate , but ; an abundant white one with infusion of galls .
The solution by caustic soda ( 4 ) , neutralized by weak acetic acid , gave also an abundant precipitate with infusion of galls , and none with corrosive sublimate .
It was darker coloured than that obtained by water alone .
In the third process , alcohol dissolved a small portion of resin , which water precipitated again perfectly white .
The muriatic acid dissolved the phosphates , and left the vegetable fibre .
To ascertain the relative quantities of the two phosphates , I destroyed the animal and vegetable matter of a fresh portion of the calculus by burning , dissolved the phosphates in muriatic acid , and precipitated them together by ammonia ; I then digested the precipitate , whilst moist , in oxalic acid , filtered , and threw down the triple phosphate by ammonia , adding also a little phosphate of soda to secure the precipitation of the whole of the magnesia .
The oxalate of lime was then decomposed by heat , its base re-dissolved in muriatic acid , and precipitated by sub-carbonate of ammonia , and the quantity of phosphate of lime inferred from that of the carbonate obtained .
The proportions of the several ingredients of the calculus were as follows : 2a 4Animal matter , chiefly gelatine 25 .
20 .
Resin $ .
9o Ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate .
16 f Phosphate of lime 45 3 6 .
Vegetable fibre 20 30 99.,9 I must not conclude this communication without referring to other similar alvine concretions , which have been at different times met with in those parts of the country where oatmeal is in common use as an article of food among the poorer classes .
Dr. MARCET , il his Essay on Calculous Disorders , mentions a concretion which was showed to him by Dr. BosTOOK , that had been voided by a labouring man in Lancashire ; and Dr. MARCET himself examined another given him by Mr. SILVIERA , who had it from Dr. MONRO of Edinburgh .
It was in the examination of this calculus , that the true nature of the velvety fibrous substance was ascertained by Dr. WOLLASTON , who , Dr. MARCET says , " found it to consist of extremely minute vegetable fibres , or short needles , pointed at both ends ; " which he immediately conjectured to arise from some kind " of food peculiar to Scotland .
For some time , however , he failed in his attempts to trace this substance to its origin .
But the ingenious Mr. CLIFT , of the College of Surgeons , " to whom the subject was mentioned in conversation , having put the question , ' whether this fibrous substance might not " s proceed from oats , ' Dr. WOLLASTON was induced to ex{ amine the structure of this seed ; and the result fully verified Mr. CLIFT'S conjecture .
" ( p. 139 ) .
In Dr. ALEXANDER MUNRo 's Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet , mention is made of forty-two alvine concretions collected by the Author 's father , which were examined by DrTHOMSON .
Their structure , ( with one exception similar in all ) is described by Dr. MoNRo ( p. 3 ) " as more or less " porous , and somewhat like to dried sponge , and when ex " amined by the aid of a magnifying glass , seems to be made cc up of a number of very small fibres intimately interwoven 30 " with each other , like those in a hat , or in chamois leather ; " and the interstices between the fibres are filled up with earthy matter .
" And at p. 34 he adds , " in the centre of " the concretion , a prune , or a cherry stone , or a small piece of " bone , or a biliary calculus , is generally found .
" ' Dr. THOMSON states the average specific gravity of these concretions to be 1.4 .
The one I weighed was , as mentioned above , considerably heavier .
This may be owing to one con .
taining more of the fibrous substance than the other , or to Dr. THOMSON not having employed an exhausted vessel to extricate the air from the pores of the calculus .
Dr. THOMSON obtained from his analysis , albumen , common salts , phosphate of lime , phosphate of soda and the oat fibres , which he describes as " undoubtedly of a peculiar nature , dif"fering from every animal and vegetable substance hitherto " examined .
" My results , in most respects , agree with Dr. THOMsoN 's , except that I could not discover any albumen ; and on the other hand , the calculi examined by him , do not appear to have contained either the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate or gelatine .
$1

