490 Magnetic Properties of Iron at High Temperatures .
Drude is 4-25 ' , the theoretical value being 2-972 ' .
When it is borne in mind that the value of the magneto-optic constant derived from reflection experiments has here been applied to test experiments on transmission through Aims , with results not only of the same order of magnitude , but identical within the limits of uncertainty of the intensity of magnetisation , the agreement must be considered as a very satisfactory vindication both of the theory and of the experiments .
9 .
It is to be noticed that , as bu 6a , h are necessarily real , the imaginary part of Coe4* must be entirely accounted for by the Hall effect .
Hence the present theory involves the supposition that the Hall effect is very much greater for exceedingly rapidly alternating currents than for steady ones .
There is nothing unnatural in this supposition , which may be compared with the fact discovered by Maxwell , that the ordinary coefficients of conductivity are very much smaller in the optical circumstances .
" Magnetic Properties of Iron at High Temperatures .
" By J. Hopkinson , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received June 10 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
The present note is for the purpose of correcting two points in my paper in the ( Philosophical Transactions , A , vol. 180 .
First.\#151 ; I was of opinion that my experiments showed that heating iron above its critical point did not entirely destroy the effects of previous mfl.omfttiHa.tion .
Recent experiments I have made do not confirm this opinion .
I would therefore wish to delete the following sentences in which the matter is referred to , viz.:\#151 ; Page 414 , lines 12 and 13 ; the first paragraph on page 454 ; the first two lines on page 455 ; ^the first paragraph on page 457 ; and from the words " two things on line 5 to the word " second " on the same page .
Also in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' vol. 45 , page 321 , strike out the two paragraphs at the top of the page .
Second.\#151 ; I have since been unable to obtain so great recalescence with approximately pure iron as is shown in Curve XXXIX , and can only conclude that I must have been in error as to the composition of the sample examined .
I therefore wish in the last paragraph of the paper to speak of the sample as of unknown composition ; to strike out the words " This shows why soft iron apparently does not recalesce to substitute " this " for " the " and strike out " of the soft iron 99 in the last line .
I also take the opportunity of correcting an error in the joint paper of myself and Mr. Wilson , vol. 189 , pages 109\#151 ; 136 .
Delete the four Distribution of Frequency of the Barometric Height .
491 lines on page 121 from " The extent " to " OOOland substitute " The capacity of window glass is but little affected by variations of frequency at ordinary temperatures .
" The statement as it stands is hardly likely to mislead as it is obviously incorrect ; it is unlikely that capacity would increase with frequency .
" On the Distribution of Frequency ( Variation and Correlation ) of the Barometric Height at diverse Stations .
" By Karl Pearson , M.A. , F.R.S. , University College , London , and Miss Alice Lee , Bedford College .
Received June 15 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
Although this paper contains the results of a very large amount of arithmetical work , which has been in progress during the last two or three years , it is not intended in the first place as a contribution to the meteorology of the British Isles .
It is especially intended as an illustration of method .
The authors believe that hitherto no exact theory of variation or of correlation has been applied to meteorological observations , and they have endeavoured to indicate that fruitful results may be obtained from such a theory when applied to one branch at least of meteorology , namely , barometric frequency .
They wished to deal with a fairly extended area with an easily accessible material , and this was found in the Meteorological Observations at Stations of the Second Order for the British Isles .
The " telegraph " stations would have provided better material , but it was far less accessible .
The authors have accordingly only dealt with three telegraph stations .
The main body of their data was drawn from twenty stations of the second order , four of which are in Ireland , and the remainder distributed round the coast of England , Wales , and Scotland , as indicated on a chart accompanying the memoir .
2 .
Their first object was to determine the nature of the barometric frequency distribution .
By means of tables and plates it is shown that it can be described with a very high degree of accuracy by the use of a generalised frequency curve of the type\#151 ; ( x\P V = yol l + -je-Y* a type which has been fully discussed in a previous memoir on skew variation .
A standard frequency curve for the British Isles having been selected , it is shown that the frequency distribution varies con-

