A paper was read , " On the Friction of Fluids .
" By George Rennie , Esq. , V.P.R.S. The object of the author in this paper is to trace the relation subsisting between the different quantities of water discharged by orifices and tubes , and the retardations arising from the friction of the fluid .
The results of the experiments hitherto made with a view of ascertaining the effects of the friction attending the mutual motion of solids and fluids , are exceedingly discordant , and therefore undeserving of confidence .
Whether , for example , the retarda ?
tion from friction be proportional to the surfaces , or to the velo ?
cities , are points by no means satisfactorily determined .
The experiments of the author were designed to measure the re ?
tardations experienced by solids moving in fluids at rest ; and of fluids moving over solids .
For this purpose , he employed a cylinder of wood , about eleven inches in diameter and two feet in length , traversed by an iron axle , upon the upper part of which a small pulley was fixed .
A fine flexible silken cord was wound round the pulley , at one end , and had a weight attached to the other end .
A frame was provided , allowing the apparatus to slide up and down 3 and the cylinder to be immersed at various depths into the river Thames .
When the velocities were small , the retardation was found to be nearly as the surface : but with great velocities it appears to have but little relation to the extent of the surface immersed .
The resistances of iron discs and wooden globes revolving in water were found to be as the squares of the velocities .
From the experiments made on the quantities of water discharged by orifices of different shapes and sizes from vessels kept constantly full , the author concludes , that they are in the ratio of the areas of the orifices , independently of their shape j and nearly as the square roots of the heights .
In pipes bent at various angles the retarda ?
tion occasioned by the flexure was not in proportion to their number .

