Researches on .
the Impregnation o(f the Ovum in the Amphibia ; and on the Early Stages of Development of the Embryo .
( Third Series .
) By the late GEORGE NEWPORT , F.R.S. , F.L.S. 8c .
Selected and arranged from the Author 's MSS.* , by GEORGE VINER ELLIS , Professor of Anatomy in University College , London .
Communicated by Sir JOHN FORBES , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 6th.-Read June 15th , 1854 .
IN a note dated April 18th , 1853 , which was added to my last paper on the " Impregnation of the Ovum t , " whilst it was printing , I recorded the fact that , " through the adoption of a different mode of examination " from that which I had previously employed , I had seen the spermatozoon pass through the gelatinous covering and the vitelline membrane of the egg into the vitelline chamber and the yelk .
This fact of the penetration of the spermatozoon into the yelk is of such importance as to make it necessary for me to state , with precision , all the circumstances connected with it , and to detail the exact course I have pursued .
These particulars were not given when I announced the fact , because they would( have exceeded the limits of a supplementary note ; but as the omission of them thas exposed my statement to considerable doubt on the part of one of the most distinguished and truthful of physiologists ( Professor BISCHOFF+ ) , it is the more necessary that I now detail pr ecisely my mode of proceeding ? .
I think it will then appear , that the difficulties which have hitherto prevented a solution of the question of the penetration of the egg of the Frog by the spermatozoon are in chief part , if not entirely overcome , and that this egg , far from being the least fitted , is perhaps one of those best adapted for arriving [ * A great part of this paper was written by Mr. NEWPORT , with the intention of presenting it to this Society ; and the rest has been compiled from his Note Books .
None of the observations were made later than the Spring f 1853.-G.V.E .
] t Philosophical Transactions for 1853 , p. 271 .
t In a paper purporting to refute the opinions of Dr. KE3ER and Dr. NELSON concerning the penetration of the spermatozoon into the ovum , " Widerlegung , &amp;c. &amp;c. , von Dr. Tn .
L. W. BISCHOFF , mit einem Zusatz von Dr. RuD .
LEJUCKART .
" [ ?
Since the above sentence was written Professor BIscaeOF has investigated , this , spring ( 1854 ) , the impregnation of the egg of the Frog , and has confirmed the statement of Mr. NEWPORT respecting the penetration of the spermatozoon .
See his pamphlet headed " Bestitigung des von Dr. NEWPORT bei den Batrachien und Dr. BARRY bei den Kaninchen behaupteten Eindringens der Spermatozoiden in das Ei .
" In this publication he asserts that Mr. NEWPORT is the discoverer of the phenomenon of the penetration of the spermatoroon int the egg by its own movement.-G.V.E .
] at the settlement of the dispute about penetration , which has so long engaged the attention of physiologists .
Mode of proceeding .
I have elsewhere mentioned that I employed a glass cell to contain the egg whilst it was examined* , with the view of keeping it in one position , and preventing the movement derived from accidental causes : it is made of a section of a piece of barometer tube , from one-eighth to one-fourth of an inch deep and three lines in diameter in the clear , which is cemented on a plate of glass of convenient size .
This piece of apparatus , which I name a tube-cell , is of a size sufficient to contain only a single egg after its covering is fully expanded .
For the purpose of making an observation , the egg is to be placed in the centre of the cell , immediately after removal from the body of the frog , and before it has come into contact with any fluid ; by this proceeding the gelatinous envelopes adhere so firmly to the glass as to render the egg almost or quite immovable , when the jelly expands on the subsequent addition of water .
In order that the proper focal distance of high magnifying powers nay be obtained , I commonly use a cell which allows the object-glass to be immersed in the fluid .
As this cell admits light on every side , it is well adapted for viewing the penetration of the spermratozoon into the egg envelopes when the microscope is placed vertically , and a strong transmitted light is employed .
It is convenient also for viewing the egg laterally with a simple plano-convex lens of low power , with the view of observing the formlation of the chalmber above the yelk , or watching the cleavage of the yelk ; but the experience of some years has proved that the cell is not suited for the lateral examination of the egg with the compound microscope , owing to the thickness and the convexity of its wall .
True , the passing of the spermatozoon into the external envelope , and even into the vitelline membrane , can be readily obserlved when the tube cell is employed in the upright position of the microscope , but I have been unable to follow satisfactorily the course of the spermatozoon completely through the yelk membrnane in that position of the object , in consequence of the dark colour and opacity of the egg .
To ascertain the fact of the impregnation of the ovuml by penetration , it was then necessary to invent some means by which the egg could be examined laterally with the compound microscope .
The great difficulty to be overcome was the tendency of the dark surface of the fecundated ovum to maintain a vertical position , with the eonsequent rotation or rather gravitation of the whole mass of the yelk , whenever there was any change in the position of the cell .
I contrived for this purpose a cell or box larger than the one before described , which may be designated a cistern box ; , and with it I could note all the changes that took place whilst the egg was quite nudisturbed .
This box resembles the aiiimalcule cage of Mr. TULLY+ , since it is constructed of brass with glass at the top and bottom , and it is inserted into a brass plate by which it may be fixed to the stage of the microscope : the front glass can be approximated to or removed from the hinder one by means of the sliding of the piece of brass in which it is cemented , though this motion never allows the glasses to touch .
The glass employed is thin , especially the front one ; and a piece is cut out of the anterior one ( about one-third of the whole ) to allow of water being added or removed by a siphon without disturbing the box or its contents .
Its diameter is eight-tenths to nine-tenths of an inch , and its least depth is about one-sixth of an inch , or about sufficient for the lodgmtent of a single row of the frog 's eggs , before they are expanded .
During the use of this box the microscope is placed horizontally ; and a camera is attached to the eyepiece to allow of the immediate delineation of the changes seen .
The magnifying power used has been commonly the half-inch object-glass ( Ross ) with No. 2 eyepiece , but when any doubt has arisen the quarter-inch object-glass has been taken ; and the illumination has been derived from the apparatus called GILLET'S condenser .
If the following points are attended to , the entrance of the sperinatic body may be readily seen .
The eggs are to be passed uninjured from the frog* , and are to be attached immediately to the inner surface of the glass plate in the moveable front of the cistern box ; the front of the box is to be replaced and the objects brought into focus , and then the box is to be filled with spermatozoic water .
As soon as the fluid touches the eggs , these imbibe it and expand , but they remain firmly attached to the glass .
In order thatthee success of the experiment may be ensured , equal parts of the sperm and water may be used , and within a few minutes after the former has been obtained ; this will cause a large number of spermatozoa to enter the egg ; but as the mixture is too opake for the satisfactory observation of the phenonena , I remove it at the end of two or three minutes by means of a siphon , and supply its place with pure water .
By this time many of the sperm bodies have begun to enter the ovum , and their transit to the vitelline chamber is facilitated by the endosmose of the water .
When these circumstances have been attended to , spermatozoa may be sonetimes .
seen at the zona pellucida of the envelope within the first tninute , though only those that encounter the egg at right angles ; but in from four to five minutes many may be visible , according to the number contained in the water .
After the lapse of some time , varying with the temperature , the formation of the chamber may be noticed over the centre of the dark surface of the yelk : it is usually at this stage , and for a short time afterwards , that the spertnatozoa are first detected in , or passing into , the yvitelline chamber .
Penetration of the Spermatozoon into the Yelk .
The fact of the penetration was first observed on the 25th of March , , 1853 , not only into the chamber , but also into the substance of the yelk ; and as soon as I was satisfied of it , the following precise observations were made .
First set of observations.-An observation was begun at 1b 28m A.M. with the temperature 60 ?
FAHR. of the room , though possibly it was three or four degrees higher to the eggs , from the radiation of the lamp .
Within five minutes an abundance of spermatozoa could be observed sticking in the vitelline membrane .
At twelve minutes the number was greatly increased , and extended around all the circumference of the membrane within focus : some were still in motion , and passing slowly on through the gelatinous envelope with their characteristic serpentine movenent .
At seventeen miinutes the number of the spermatozoa sticking in the vitelline membrane appeared to be lessened .
At twenty-two minutes the yelk had changed its position , the dark part being uppermost ; and I could distinctly see some spermatozoa sunk in the vitelline membrane and shining through it , as in former observations , but I could not yet detect any within the cavity of the yelk : some of the bodies , both those in the yelk membrane and those in the jelly , were perishing , as the curling up of the tails showed .
In thirty minutes the yelk had begun to separate from its envelope ( forming the chamber ) , and in the small space thus forming at the middle of its upper surface , I saw two spermatozoa in mrotion .
At thirty-seven minutes the space was increased and more spermatozoa were in it .
At 11 411 the bodies were still moving , though the greater number were folded up both in the chamber and on the yelk , but some had their tails projecting out of the yelk membrane ; the chamber had attained to half of its future dimensions .
At 11 ' 22m all motion had ceased , and there was a heaving of the yelk .
From this period till segmentation began , the spermatozoa in the chamber became gradually fainter , till they appeared to change into fine elementary granules , and then disappeared ; but some of those that entered the dark surface of the yell remained for more than twenty minutes after its first cleavage , whilst others that were sticking in the vitelline membrane were perceptible for many hours .
In the glass box were three other eggs , in all of which the same facts could be noted .
The segmentation of the yelk began at the end of three hours and thirty minutes at the temperature stated .
I may mention , that in each egg two spherical bodies , to be presently described , were present , and that these exist in all perfectly or imperfectly fecundated eggs .
The observations were repeated on the evening of the same day on a set of four eggs ; and were repeated on the three following days with precisely similar results .
Second set of observations.-I now proposed to vary the conditions of the eggs by having a temperature of the room of 64 ?
FAHR. , there being the corresponding 232 increase from the lamp , and by using pure sperm that had been obtained an hour before .
At 12h 50m a single egg was immersed in undiluted male fluid .
At twenty-two ininutes after immersion I saw spermatozoa passing through the vitelline membrane at all points of its surface , whilst some had passed through it .
The yelk was beginning to separate from its membrane , and its surface had an undulatory motion .
As the chamber enlarged , several spermatozoa became evident within it in motion .
At 1h 45m several of the spermatozoa were fast disappearing , as if breaking up into granules , but those outside the membrane did not disappear so rapidly as those within the chamber .
Some other eggs , four in number , were experimented on with some of the same fluid used for the egg referred to above , and in this case the fluid had been removed from the male for two hours and a quarter ; the fluid remained on the eggs half an hour , and its place was then supplied by pure water .
Temperature 64 ?
FAHR. as before .
At thirty minutes , that is to say , as soon as the water was added , the chamber was in three eggs largely developed , as much as it would have been in an hour in eggs only moderately supplied with spermatozoa , though in the fourth egg the degree was not quite so great .
From eight to twelve spermatozoa were detected in each chamber , and some motionless in the fluid ; others on the vitelline membrane had their serpentine movements ; and others were projecting from the membrane motionless , as if their force had been expended before they could effect an entrance .
This last experiment seems to favour my view , that the changes in the yelk are hastened by excess of the fecundating fluid .
From the facts stated above , and before detailed in ny former papers , the conclusion seems to be arrived at , that thie fiuctifying of the egg depends on the force or power residing in the sperm body to make its way through the thick coverings of the yelk ; and that , this being the case , an explanation will be afforded of the failure of the fluid to occasion fecundation when those bodies are deficient in number or wellbeing , or are deprived of the power of moving : and at the same time the penetrating power may afford a clue to the inability of filtering paper , even when it is twice or thrice folded , to stop their progress through it .
The action of the spermatozoon is influenced by the temperature of the air , and by mechanical impediments to its passage into the egg .
With respect to temperature , I have frequently referred to its influence in expediting or retarding the development of the embryo , and the following general statement may be given in support of it .
A given number of eggs , at a mean temperature of 61 ?
FAHR. , will advance infour days as far as a corresponding set , at a mean temperature of only 47 ?
FAHR. , will reach in fourteen days .
Further , the embryos exposed to the low temperature nentioned above die and decompose , whilst in a running stream , and in a natural state , they would come to maturity , and this difference appears to be owing to the more perfect aeration of the water in the natural than in the artificial development .
There is a certain condition of the envelopes of the egg , of not very unfrequent occurrence , which affects the impregnation .
In this condition the envelope is semiopake and thickened , and the alteration is induced I suspect by too long retention of the ova in the oviduct during a period of excitement : this pathological state seems interesting , as it may have its representative in the ova of otler animals , and may be operative in like manner in them .
On the 15th of March , 1853 , 1 employed in an experiment a pair of frogs that had been in constant union since their capture eight days before , and on passing the eggs in the usual way I noticed ( what I had before observed ) that the envelope was more opake or clouded , thicker and more irregular than usually .
On fecundating the eggs with lrecent healthy sperm I found the changes were slower in their occurrence , and the number of ermbryos form ted was much smaller than in experiments on eggs with healthy envelopes .
Thus out of fifteen eggs in separate cells , not more than a third were fecundated and in these , at a temlperature of 60 ?
FAHR. , the chamber could not be perceived with a lens till after the lapse of an hour and ten minutes , instead of less than an hour ; and segmentation of the yelk did not begin for three hours and fiftyfive minutes at a temperature of 60 ?
to 650 FAHR. , instead of at about three hours and twenty minutes .
The results were still more marked in two other sets of eggs , fifty in each , where a smaller quantity of spermatozoa was employed , and more time occupied in making the experiments ; for in the one set , only three or four eggs were segmented with but one emrbryo ; and in the other set , a very few underwent segmentation , and but three embryos were afterwards produced .
These and other experiments show that the unusual condition of the egg affected the process of fecundation , and that to this cause the failure in the production of embryos is to be attributed .
And as the act of fecundation is accomplished through the motor power or force of the spermatozoon , by which that body is enabled to pass through the covertings of the healthy egg , it appears that , when their is any deficiency in the usual power , arising from an unhealthy condition of the fertilizing body , or an increase in the resistance in the yelk coverings , the spermatozoon is unable to pass through the membranes into the yelk , and the egg remains unfertilized .
Of the spherical bodies which appear on the Yelk afterfecundation .
I have already alluded* to the presence of certain spherical bodies , which appear within the clear chamber of the egg of the Frog , and on the surface of the yelk subsequent to fecundation .
Like bodies have been noticed , especially in the Gasteropodous Mollusca , among the Invertebrata , and have been even seen in some of the Mammalia , but their evolution has not hitherto been traced , nor their signification been understood .
I may now detail the results of an experiment carefully made for the purpose of ascertaining somewhat of their origin and destination ; this one will serve as a type of all .
On the 27th of March 1853 , and at a temperature of 61 ?
FAHR. , three eggs were put in a cell and impregnated in the usual way .
*A single spherical body , projected from the surface of the yelk and maintained for a period at a distance from it on a pedicle , vas first noticed in Lymn(eus stagnalis by CARUS in 1824 ( Von der ausseren Lebensbedingungen der weiss und kaltblitigen Thiere , p. 33 .
t. i. fig. 4 ) , before the investigations of BAER and PURKINJE had directed attention to the structure of the ovum .
But this pediculated body was not further regarded by CARUS than as the imagined axis of rotation of the yelk .
A similar body , but followed also by a second , was also seen in Lymnmeus by DUMORTIER in 1837 ( M6m .
de l'Acad .
de Bruxelles , tom .
x , p. 136 ; also Annals des Sciences Naturelles , 2me serie , tom .
viii .
1837 , p. 136 ) , and this was immediately supposed by him to be the analogue of the Purkinjean vesicle , and with its fellow , was believed to give origin to the head and foot of the animal .
A single body was also noticed in Lymneus by POUCI-ET ( Sir le d6veloppement de 1'Embryon des Lymn6es , Comptes Rendus , July 1838 , pp. 86 , 87 ) , and by him likewise was thought to be the Purkinjean vesicle set free from the yelk .
But SARS observed two vesicles in Trilonia , Eolis and Doris ( WIEGMANN'S Archiv , 1837 ) , and VAN BENEDEN found two in Limax agrestis ( MAULLER'S Archiv , 1841 , p. 180 ) and Aplysia depilans ( Annals des Sc. Not .
tom .
xv .
p. 126 .
pl. 1 .
figs. 4 , 7 , 9 , 1841 ) , and remarked that in both species these bodies come from the yelk before segmentation is commenced , and that their presence indicates that the body of the Limax will be formed on that side of the yelk at which they appear .
Nevertheless VAN BENEDEN , observing that they are suspended for a time in the transparent fluid which surrounds the yelk from which they proceed , believed that they become dissolved in this fluid and do not take any direct part in the formation of the embryo ; and although he appears to have regarded them as the representatives of the Purkinjean vesicle , he seems to have doubted whether this body plays the important part Nvhich has been attributed to it in the higher animals .
At the same time he called attention to the fact of the constancy of these vesicles in Lymnevus , Limax and Aplysia as meriting consideration .
Yet KARSCH , who afterwards saw the vesicles in Lymnmeus ( WiIEcGMANN ' Arch. xii .
1846 , p. 255 ) , tlought their presence an abnormal condition .
The late Dr. J. REID , however , saw them in Doris bilaldell-ta ( Annals and Mag. of Not .
I-list .
June 1846 ) , and F. MULLEB in the eggs of Limapoi tia ( WIEGMANN'S Arch. 1848 , p. 1 ) ; and although VOGT failed to notice them in Acteon , he appears to have seen them in Limax , and his remarks ( Ann. des Sc. Not .
3me serie , tom .
vi .
1846 ) as to their disappearing in the albumen , coincide with those of VAN BENEDEN .
In tlieNudibranchiata , NORDMANN appears to have observed at least one of the vesicles in Tergipes Edwardsii , although he refers to it as a little vesicle " of air " separated from the yelk ( Ann. des Sc. Not .
3me s6rie , tom .
v. 1846 , p. 143 ) .
In the Acephalous Lamellibranchiata one vesicle at least has been noticed in several genera .
It has been remarked by QITATREFAGES in Teredo navalis ( Ann. des Sc. Not .
1848 ) , by LovEN in Modiolaria marmorata , Cardium pygmieum , Patella pellucida , and Solcn pellucida ( in Kongl .
Vetenskaps-Akademiens Forhandl .
Decemb. 1848 , and MULLER'S Archiv , 1848 , p. 531 ) , and more recently by KEBER in Unio and Anodonta ( De Spermatozoorum introitu in Ovula , K6nigsberg , 4to , 1853 ) .
In Modiolaria and Unio the vesicle is removed from the yelk on a pedicle , as in Gasteropoda , and this KEBER has miscalled " a Micropyle ; " while in Cardium , Patella , Solen and Teredo the vesicles rest on the surface of the yelk .
LOVEN , who mentions that the germinal vesicle itself disappears in these mollusks before the eggs quit the ovary , has well remarked that the body seen on the surface of the yelk in the fecundated egg before segmentation , cannot therefore be the Purkinjean vesicle itself as supposed byDuMORTIER , and he ingeniously inquires whether it may not be its nucleus .
In the Annelida , as in Mollusca , one , and in some instances two , vesicles have been seen .
KoLLIKER observed 2 2 At thirty-seven minutes the chamber had begun to form , and several moving spermatozoa were in it .
The spherical bodies made their appearance on the surface of the yelk ; and when first noticed they weire closely applied to it , and were surrounded by a small irregular heap of granules .
Some of the spermatozoa remained in motion Ih 22m , and I have subsequently seen them alive in the chamber for a longer period .
At Ih 30m the two bodies differed somewhat in character , 'and one was before the other : the anterior or granulous one appeared to have a distinct memnbrane , and to one in the eggs of Exogena Etrstedii , which he at first looked upon as the enbryo cell ( in Einige Worte sir Entwickelungsgeschichte von Eunice .
Nachworte von A. KOLLIKER in Zurich , Nauenberg , 1846 , note ) .
QUTATREFAGES also has noticed one in Herniella ( Ann. des Sciences Not .
3 serie , tom .
x. 1848 , p. 177 .
pl. 3 .
fig. xv .
xviii .
) , and more recently VAN BENEDEN has seen and figured one in the eggs of a Cestoid worm , Echineibothrium variabile ( Mem. de l'Acad .
de Bruxelles , tom .
xxv .
p. 68 , pl. 3 .
fig. 15 , 1850 ) .
Thus the existence in many Invertebrata of at least one detached spherical body on the surface of the fecundated yelk , before segmentation , seems to point to the conclusion that these bodies have some important signification with reference to the future embryo .
QUATREFAGES , who has recently directed attention to the fact of their occurrence , properly remarks , that their presence at this stage of development of the egg is much more general than it has hitherto been supposed .
These bodies have been seen equally in the Vertebrata as in the Invertebrata .
In the Vertebrata they appear to have been first noticed , but entirely misunderstood , by Dr. MARTIN BARRY in the Rabbit .
Although repeatedly seen and figured by him ( Philosophical Transactions , 1840 , p. 538 , Plates XXIV .
XXV .
and XXVI .
, figs. 185 , 186 , 187 and 193 , 200 , 206 , 209 , 212 ) , imagining that the germinal vesicle does not disappear before , but only changes its form , becomes enlarged , and takes the place of the yelk , subsequent to fecundation , he conceived that these spherical bodies were the remains of the yelk , or , as he terms it , " substance " ( p. 538 ) , which he supposed had undergone dissolution and disappeared .
Professor BIscHOFF however , having noticed these bodies in the egg of the Rabbit ( MULLER 's Archiv , 1841 , p. 14 .
tab .
1 .
fig. 6 ) , directed particular attention to them ( Entwickelungsgeschichte des Kaninchen-Eies , 4to .
1842 , tab .
2 .
fig. 17 b , figs. 19 , 20 ) , and believed them to play an important part in the segmentation of the yelk .
Subsequently to this , these spherical bodies were also noticed by BIscHOFF in the egg of the Dog ( Entwickelungsgeschichte des Hunde-Eies , 4to .
1845 , tab .
1 .
figs. 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 ) ; and afterwards POUCHET , who had noticed a single vesicle , as before stated , in the Mollusca , gave also one only in the egg of the Rabbit , which he has equally regarded as a descendant of the germinal vesicle ( Theory positive de l'Ovulation spontanee et de la Fecondation des Mammiferes , Paris , 8vo .
1847 , pl. 15 .
fig. 9 ) .
More recently Professor BIscHOFF has noticed , as in the Rabbit and Dog , two of these spherical bodies in the egg of the Guinea Pig ( Entwickelungsgeschichte des Meerschweinchens , 4to .
1852 , tab .
1 .
figs. 5,6 ) , and I have also found two in the egg of the Frog ( Philosophical Transactions , 1853 , p. 247 ) .
It is thus evident that the appearance of certain spherical bodies on the surface of the yelk , 'between it and the zona pellucida subsequent to fecundation , and after the yelk has become contracted and ceases to fill the entire zone , and before any subdivision of the yelk is commenced , is a general and perhaps universal occurrence in the fecundated egg both of vertebrated and invertebrated animals , but of the signification of these bodies very different opinions are entertained .
Dr. BIsCHOFF , in his most recent work on the Guinea Pig , states that he formerly believed these bodies to play an important part in the segmentation of the yelk , and that the view he then held has been adopted by LovEN ; while F. MULLER conceives that these vesicles determine the direction of the segmentation of the yelk .
RATHKE , on the other hand , regards these vesicles but as accidental occurrences , and of no organic or developmental importance ( ExicHsoN 's Archives , 1848 , p. 187 ) , a view in which he is supported by DESOP , in some observations on Nemertes ( MiLLER 's Archiv , 1848 , p. 511 ) , and to which Professor BIScHOFF himself states he is now somewhat inclined , although he properly remarks that the regularity of the appearance of these vesicles at a definite stage of development of the egg is not favourable to such an opinion ( loc. cit. p. 19 ) .
be granulated throughout ; the other , or nucleated body , was clear , and had a distinct granular nucleus on one side .
The changes proceeded more rapidly in one of the eggs , but the bodies were the same in all .
At 1h 45m the two bodies were passing in a straight line from the centre to the circumference of the chamber .
The spermatic particles were fading away and becoming granulous .
At two hours the nucleated one began to change ; its nucleus dividing into two granular masses , each of these having a bright spot in its centre .
The same change took place in the corresponding body in each egg .
Towards the end of the third hour the two masses subdivided , so that four granular masses were present at the centre of the nucleated cell ; and in each a bright central spot became very distinct , The antelrior or granular spherical body was still present , and had passed outwards , followed by the nucleated one , to about midway between the central canal and the margin of the chamber above the yelk : the same transferencoe took place in all .
Shortly after the completion of the third hour , it was noticed that the rate of moving towards the margin of the chamber became more rapid , and at the bodies had reached the margin in a direct line with the centre of the yelk surface , one being still at a short distance befoe the other .
When , on viewing the egg laterally , the line of transit corresponds to the line of sight , the change of place is not readily perceived , except the bodies go out of focus ; but if their course is at right angles to the line of vision , then the moveent is ost mared and interesting .
When the granular or foremost vesicle has arrived at the margin of the chamber , this space becomes further enlarged by a depression in the centre , marking the commencement -ofg the cleavage of thyelk : granular renants of the spermatozoa were still recogtizable in the chamber .
At 3h 10m the four granular masses in the interior of the nucleated body still cohered together , and seemed to be again subdividing .
At this time the little heap of granules , which originally escaped with the spherical bodies from the central canal and remained at its margins , gradually enlarges into a number of small transparent vesicles , in which at first no nuclei are visible : in some of the eggs six or eight of these are to be recognized .
In consequence of the transparency of these cells , they are not seen unless the eggs are examined in the way recommended ; but during , so the observaion , some attain a third of the sze of the spherical bodies .
These vesicles usually remain in the vicinity of the central canal from which they came .
About 3h 17m the first division of the yelk is indicated by two clefts which appear at the margins of the canal , and sinking into the substance of the yelk , gradually extend outwards .
As the cleft is produced , I have constantly observed the spherical bodies sink into it , and become for a time more or less lost to view ; but they do not pass into the substance of the yelk , for they are ?
e readily seen in the triangular furrow between the halves , either by means of a reflector above the egg , or when the cleavage lies in the line of vision by the usual mode .
When the 237 cleavage of the egg is at right angles to the line of view the spherical bodies suddenly disappear , and arle seen again only when the crucial or second cleft is about to begin .
I may state , that in the eggs under observation , as well as in others examined both before and since , I found , with but very rare exceptions , that both spherical bodies pass together to the same side of the yelk in a line with the entrance of the canal , and one at a little distance behind the other ; and that after the completion of the cleavage of the yelk at right angles to the line of sight , the bodies make their appearance again at the spot where they disappeared , and never at any other part of the yelk .
At the end of the fourlth hour the first cleft was finished , and the yelk mass contracting at right angles to the cleft , and extending in its direction , the two bodies were again brtought into view almost at the very spot at which they disappeared .
The same was observed in each egg .
This transit , which may be regarded as an indisputable fact , will set aside the opinion that the bodies enter the yelk , and become the foundation of the nuclei of the different parts into which the yelk splits .
It may here be inentioned , with reference to these bodies , that they occasionally are more or less completely detached for a tittme from the yelk mass during the formation of the chlamber .
In some instances too , they appeared to be absent , as they were not in the usulal place , but I found them afterwards adhering temporarily to the inner surface of the vitelline membrane at the point with which they were in approxisegmentation of the yelk was completed , and then being detached , apparently by the movement of the yelk within its envelope , occupied their usual place in the first furrow .
Eggs , with the exceptional condition above described , have always produced embrtyos ; so that whilst we doubt whetfier the spherical bodies are necessarily connected with the yelk-changes , we see some analogy with the corresponding bodies observed in several of the mollusca , in which they are removed from the yelk during the time it is undergoing the commotion of its first great divisions .
In the ovum of the Rablbit ( BARRY ) and in that of the Dog ( BISCHOFF ) they are suspended in the fluid , quite free of the yelk , dutring the first divisions ; they are also on one side of the yelk , usually in the cleft between the primiary divisions of the mass ; and they continue to be seen at the same place , as in the Amphibia , until about the fourth or fifth subdivision , when they are suddenly lost .
At 411 15m , when the second crucial division of the yelk was nearly completed , I found that the granulated( or anterior spherical body floated in the fluid in the first formed furrow , an(l was as yet unchlanged in appearance , saving only that its contents seemed to be divided into two masses ; whilst the nucleated or posterior body had already undergone some change , since there appeared in its place a group of four distinct cells : these cells I am ( lisposed to believe , in the absence of proof not yet obtained , were the progeny of the nucleated body that had disappeared..After this stage the tracing of the vesicles was more difficult .
The granulated or anterior body , still unchanged , is seen at the same place when the yelk undergoes its 238 equatorial or third great subdivision : this cleavage begins on the side of the yelk opposite to that at which the granular body is seen .
After the completion of this equatorial division , the granular-like nucleated body is suddenly lost , and I have been unable to trace it further .
But I am not inclined to believe that these bodies are simply dissolved in the flulid surrounfling the yelk in the Invertebrata , according to the supposition of VAN BENEDEN , RATHKE , QUATREFAGES and others ; supported as this view has been by Professor BISCHOFF* who is inclined to think that such may be their ending in theVertebrata .
On the contrary , the regularity of their appearance at a given period , their presence at a particular part of the yelk , their special course on the surface , and their disappearance at a given stage of the yelk-changes , furnish a presumption of their greater importance .
VAN BENEDENf has already pointed out , notwithstanding his above-mentioned opinion , that it is on that side of the yelik of the Limax at which these bodies appear , that the body of the animal is afterwards formed .
Also DUMORTIER+ had previously believed that the spherical bodies gave origtin to the head and foot of the future animal .
Although I am unable to specify the exact part which these bodies take in the formation of the embryo , all my observations on the eggs of the Frog and Toad have proved to me that they are usually , and perhaps invariably , at that part of the yelk at which the head of the embryo is afterwalrds formed .
Their isolation from the yelk for a time , during which it is in a very disturbed state , and their constant localization , with their subsequent disappear ance in that part at which the head is afterwards to be developed , seem favourable to the conclusion that their function is as definite as their presence is certain .
It has been supposed by F. MULLER ?
that the spherical bodies determined in the Mollusca the line of the first cleavage of the yelk ; and with this ilea he namre(l them the direction vesicles .
But my observations on the development of the embryo lead me to believe , that , though the transit of these bodies is usually in the same line as the first cleft , the direction of the fissure is not determined by them , but is owing to some other cause .
With the view of tracing the origin of these bodies , the egg of the Frog and Toad was examined from a period before the disappearance of the gerltinal vesicle to the time at which they appear on the yelk alfter fecund(lation ; and for this purpose the eggs were hardened in rectified spirit and then dissected I ) .
*** * On the production of the Body and Head of the Embryo from definite portions of the Yelk .
Repeated observations have demonstrated that in one part of the yelk the head , and in another the body and tail of the forthcoming being begin .
This appointment of the parts is further indicated , very early , by conditions in the yelk cleavage-conditions so constant that 1 am able to predicate soon after the completion of the horizontal cleft , or at the beginning of the fourth change , where the head , and where the tail of the future embryo will be placed .
In support of this statement the changes in the egg undergoing segmentation must be referred to , but they will be traced , here , only to the point indicatory of the diagnosis to be made .
To ascertain the correctness of the following staternment it will be necessary to put the impregnated eggs , dark surface uppermost , in tube-cells , and to mtark on these where the future head and body should be , according to the deduction from changes in the segmenting yelk .
First change .
In eggs kept at a temperature of 60 ?
FAHR. , the first change begins at about the end of four hours , and consists in a cleft that runs vertically round the egg .
This cleft may be called axial from its position , as it will afterwards appear , to the body of the future embryo .
It begins in the centre of the dark surface in a slight depression , so that in some instances the canal may be almost detected : then suddenly a sulcus appears on each side of the depression , and quickly extends outwards around the yelk , though it is deepest and most strongly marked above .
In the egg of the Frog as in that of the Newt , the halves are not always of equal size in this stage , but this disproportion is obviated in the second division .
Second change.-Another cleft now surrounds the egg crossing the first at right angles , and this may be named crucial .
An interval of about an hour elapses before its appearance , and its cornmencement is not seen at the same instant on each side of the axial line , but is perceived first at one side .
After this , as after the axial cleft , the pieces into which it divides the yelk are unequal in size ; but these variations have in general but little influence on the result obtained by the segmentation .
In some ova there is such an unusual displacement of the segments as almost to prevent the identification of the parts in the subsequent changes , the lines of the axial and crucial clefts being rendered very irregular by unequal increase of the sectional pieces on opposite sides of the first cleft .
This irregularity I am inclined to think arises from unequal division of the yelk in the production of the first cleft ; and to it I attribute the partial horizontal movement of the yelk itself , which Inay be sometimes recognized .
But when the yelk has divided with perfect equality both axially and crucially , the pieces on one side of the crucial line ( in front say ) always become larger than those on the other side ( behind ) ; and during this increase in size the anterior divisions project backwards over the posterior so as to cause a bending of the crucial sulculs , the convexity being forwards .
240 Third change .
In this a third cleft is formed horizontally around the egg , nearly midway between the upper and under surfaces : this may be called from its position , the equatorial cleft .
Fourth change.-About two hours after the completion of the crucial cleft , a new series of changes is set up in the egg .
The clefts no longer include the whole circumference of the egg , but are confined to the splitting of the larger into smaller pieces after a binary plan : and this process does not begin at once over the whole surface , but appears first in a given spot , and then pursues a definite course ; thus each of the two pieces seen from above on one side ( behind ) of the crucial cleft become subdivided , producing four segments on one side of that line , whilst there are only two on the other .
When this subdivision is nearly completed , and not till then , a corresponding change takes place in the two segments on the other side ( in front ) of the sulcus .
When this stage of the segmentation of the yelk is arrived at , the position of the body and head of the corning being can be determnined with certainty , so that it is not necessary to follow further the changes during segnentation .
If the cell be marked opposite the first commencing post-crucial subdivisions , and then set aside for the formeation of the e yo , the trunk and tail of the developing being will be found to originate in this first-subdividing part behind the crucial sulcus , and the head to be produced in the part on the other side , or in front of the sulcus , in which the secondary segmentation last appears .
On the correspondence of the primary cleft of the Yelk with the alis of the sof efuture Embryo .
I have been long awale that the axis of the embryo was in the line of the first cleft of the yelk , but my endeavour to stow this was not always satisfactory , in consequence of the difficulty of making the egg keep a given position , whilst it was free to move ; but since I have employed the tube-cell I have obtained the desired evidence with great ease .
Th-ie results of the following observations will suppolrt my statement .
Obs. i.-I took an egg that had just divided for the first time , and placed it in a glass cell only sufficiently large to contain it when the jelly was fully expanded , and filled the cell with water .
The dorsal surface turned uppermost , as usual , consequently I had under my eye the whole surface , and could watch the changes with the microscope .
I marked the plate of glass stpporting the cell with a line parallel to the primary cleft of the yelk , and indicated the position of the ends of the sulcus by other marks .
The whole was placed in a temperature of 60 ?
FAHR. At the timte of the closing-in of the dorsal laminae , I found the correspondence between the axis of the emtbryo and the line of the first cleft to be exact .
As I knew however that some mnovenment would be excited , I made a drawing of the appearances .
In twelve more hours the dorsal sulcus was nearly closed , and the embryo had passed to the left of the line marked on the glass , viz. to about an angle of 30 ? .
A second drawing was made to remove doubts .
On the day after , the embryo had moved still further round .
Finally , the embryo was perfected , like those of the same set that were left in mass in water .
Obs. 2.-Nine eggs were put into separate cells on March 11th , and when segmentation began , the line of the first cleft was carefully marked on the glass in the manner before explained .
One of the eggs was abortive .
March 13 .
The dorsal sulcus was forming in three of the embryos exactly in the line of the cleft .
March 14 .
In each of the eight instances the axis of the body is more or less precisely in the line of the sulcus : thus in five it was in the exact line , in one about five degrees to the left , in another about three degrees to the left , and in the remaining one rather more to the left of the given line .
Obs. 3.-Five eggs were placed in separate cells , and marked , as above directed , and then removed to a high temperature .
March 26 .
The results obtained from these were confirmatory of the facts before stated , as the variation between the line and the axis of the beings was only slight ; the axis of two being directed to the right , one to the left , and one perfectly coinciding .
Although these observations have shown that the axis of the body of the future embryo corresponds primarily with the first cleft in the yelk , they point out that , at times , the axis deviates to the left or right of that line .
The cause of this deviation I may attribute to a change in the position of the yelk , for on March 29 , 1853 , I observed that the entire yelk occasionally shifts its position during the progress of segmentation , in consequence probably of unsymmetrical division , in accordance with the explanation before given at page 240 .
On the power of the Spermatozoon to influence in artifjcial impregnation the direction of the first cleft of the Yelk .
In connexion with the influence of the spermatozoon on the egg , I determined to try whether the artificial application of that body to different parts of the egg 's surface could affect the position of the first cleft of the yelk .
Obs. 1.-Several eggs were placed , March 29 , in separate tube-cells , with each turned on its side so that both the dark and the white surface were exposed .
Very recent spermatic fluid was then applied , by means of a pin 's head , to the lower part of the dark surface , and the cell was carefully marked close to the spot , to show where the egg was touched .
The eggs rotated in the usual way , so as to bring upwards the dark surface , and at the end of one hour and a half only two eggs were fecundated .
In these the spherical vesicles had the usual position and appearance , and were directed outwards across the centre of the flat surface of the yelk to that side of the egg to which the spermatic fluid had been applied .
After the formation of the primary cleft , the cells were marked and set aside for the production of the embryo .
242 April 3 .
Each egg has formed an embryo , and in each instance with the head to the side of the egg touched .
Obs. 2.-Four eggs were placed in separate cells as before , and only two became fruitful .
In one the primary cleft was in the precise line of the spot touched , although the egg subsequently diverged to the left and the head corresponded to the part fecundated .
In the other egg the cleft was about ten degrees to the left of the part impregnated , and the head was also turned to the part touched with the fluid .
b0s .
3.-Four other eggs were taken , but two of them were sterile ; and in the development of one the head deviated remarkably from the usual position .
The first cleft in one ( a ) was about six degrees to the right ; and in the other ( b ) about five degrees to the left of the point touched .
Both formed embryos : in one ( a ) the head was at the end of the cleft nearest the point touched , but in the other ( b ) at the end furthest from the same point .
The peculiarity in this last experiment I cannot explain ; possibly there might be some want of precision in conducting it .
Similar experiments were repeated four other times , and the results showed that the first cleft of the yelk is in a line with the point of the egg artificially impregnated , and that the head of the young frog is turned towards the same point .
But in this set , as in the other , the nascent being in the course of its development deviated to the right or the left of a line through the centre of the spot fecundated .
In another set of experiments the spermatic fluid was applied to an unknown part of the egg .
On taking my last female frog ( April 5 , 1853 ) I found the white part so dark in colour ( not a very unusual change ) , that the usual black surface could not be well distinguished .
Accordingly the eggs were put into separate cells , and the fluid was applied and the cell marked in the usual way , without a knowledge of what was the spot touched .
Experiment 1.-Six eggs were used : all were fecundated , and segmented in about three hours and a half in an atmosphere varying from 61 ?
to 64 ?
FAHR. The following is the result : The axis of the embryo was in one in a line with the part touched , in four diverging slightly to the left , and in one to the right of that line .
The head was in four nearest to the spot fecundated , and in two furthest from it .
Experiment 2 with five eggs : all of these were fruitful .
The axis coincided exactly with the impregnated point in three , and diverged slightly to the left in two eggs .
The head was nearest the same point in four , and furthest from it in one embryo .
Experiment 3.-Five eggs were employed , and being fertilised , gave the following result : The axis coincided with the given point in one , and diverged more to the right or left in the other instances .
The head was nearest the side to which the spermatic fluid was applied in four , and furthest from it in one .
22 243 From these and other experiments it results , that , when part of the black surface of the egg was certainly touched with the spermatic fluid , the head of the future embryo was turned towards it in ten eggs , and removed from it in only one ; and that the axis of the embryo nearly coincided at first with the line of the point touched , though it afterwards deviated to the left or right of that line ( most to the left ) , the distance not exceeding fifteen degrees .
When however the part of the egg to which the spermatic fluid was applied was not known , the axis kept much the same position as before , but the head was far distant from the impregnated spot in four out of sixteen instances .

