41 r\gt ; 2^35 - ] On Trichophyton tonsurans .
Taking into account the superior thickness of the basalts in Mull , and above all the presence of ash beds at their base , it seems probable that they were nearer the vents than Antrim , and that their lowest beds are at least not newer , so that the Mull leaf-beds at 150 feet from the base should be much older than the Glenarm and Ballypaladv leaf-beds at 600 feet from the base .
The horizontal extent of the fluviatile beds of Mull is more difficult to estimate .
Gravel is mentioned as present at Loch Truadh , to the north-west , and at Carsaig to the east .
In the latter locality it is , perhaps , thicker and more extensive than at Ardtun .
The horizon should also be found in two of the Treshnish isles and round the north-west coast of Mull , and there can be little doubt but that deposits of plants exist in many localities besides Ardtun .
Black shales , with identical leaves , have been found in Canna , and leaflets \#166 ; oi Taxus or a similar foliaged conifer at Uig .
Though the fluviatile beds at Bourg are unfossiliferous , a very interesting relic of the Eocene vegetation occurs there , for a large tree , with a trunk 5 feet in diameter , has been enveloped as it stood to a'height of 40 feet , by one of the underlying lava beds .
Its solidity and o-irth enabled it to resist the fire , but it subsequently decayed , leaving a hollow cylinder filled in with debris and lined apparently with the charred wood .
There is also the limb of a larger tree in a fissure not far off .
The wood proves to be coniferous , belonging possibly to the Podocarpus whose leaves are so conspicuous in the beds above .
Ill " Addition to a former Paper on Trichophyton tonsurans .
( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 33 , p. 234 .
) By George Thin , M.D. Communicated by Prof. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received December 3 , 1885 .
In the " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 33 , p. 234 , 1881 , a paper of mine is published on " Trichophyton tonsurans .
Since the time that the investigations recorded in that paper were made , the study of parasitic fungi has been greatly facilitated by the introduction by Dr. Koch of gelatinised meat juice as a medium foi cultivation , and having again studied the development of trichophyton with the advantages derived from the use of this medium , I believe that two results which I have obtained might be usefully published as a supplement to the paper referred to .
The gelatinised meat juice which I used was peptonised and neutralised , and trichophyton grew on it readily and with certainty .
In my previous experiments ( in which I used vitreous humour ) I had succeeded in growing the fungus when the hairs containing the 41t\gt ; A New Form of Spectroscope .
[ Dec. 17 , spores were floated on the surface of the fluid , but I had not succeeded in finding evidence of growth when the hairs were submerged .
This result must have been due to some accidental cause which escaped undetected , as I have found that trichophyton grows when the hairs are entirely submerged in the gelatinised beef juice , and the spores are excluded from contact with the air .
In my previous paper I described a number of experiments which appeared to show conclusively that trichophyton is not related to the ordinary fungi ( Penicillium , Mucor , \amp ; c. ) with which it had been up to that time confounded .
The experiments with gelatinised meat juice confirm that view .
In many instances in which I cultivated trichophyton on this medium I never once observed organs of fructification or appearances that suggested that it could be identified with common fungi .
As regards Penicillium glaucum with which , from the abundance of its spores in the atmosphere of laboratories , cultivations are most likely to be , and are most often fouled , the difference can be shown by a very simple experiment .
A layer of the gelatinised meat juice is poured over a pure slide and allowed to cool under proper precautions .
Ringworm hairs and penicillium spores are " sown " in parallel lines on the surface of the medium , and the slide is put in a moist chamber at ordinary temperatures .
If the slide is examined in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours the penicillium will be found to be growing with great rapidity , , whilst the mycelium of trichophyton has made in comparison very little growth .
Repeated crops of penicillium may be grown up to the stage in which the characteristic organs of fructification are fully developed , whilst during the same time the trichophyton mycelium grows steadily and slowly , with no distinct signs of spore formation and no trace of organs of fructification .
I may add that , in a recent letter to me , Dr. Koch states his conviction that trichophyton is a distinct and independent kind of fungus .
IY .
" A New Form of Spectroscope .
" By J. Norman Lockyert F.R.S. Received December 5 , 1885 .
Some two or three years ago , when the sun-spot work carried on at Kensington revealed the different behaviour in different spots of lines visible in the spectra of the same element , it seemed desirable to extend similar observations to metallic prominences , and , if possible , in such a way that comparisons over a considerable reach of spectrum should be possible .
It then struck me that a grating cut in half , with one part movable , would afford a ready means of doing this .

