38 Lewis and Clarke on the Cortical Lamination [ Jan , 24 , metre of gas at the highest exhaustion to which these experiments have been carried .
Two hundred and fifty billions of molecules in a cubic centimetre appear a sufficiently large number to justify the sup-position that when set into vibration by a white-hot wire they may be capable of exerting an enormous mechanical effect .
January 24 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , in the Chair .
The presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following papers were read I. " New Determination of the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat .
" By J. P. Joule , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 15 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) An account is given by the author , of the experiments he has recently made , with a view to increase the accuracy of the results given in his former paper , published in the " Philosophical Transactions " for 1850 .
The result he has now arrived at , from the thermal effects of the friction of water , is , that taking the unit of heat as that which can raise a pound of water , weighed in vacuo , from 60 ' to 61 ' of the mercurial thermometer ; its mechanical equivalent , reduced to the sea-level at the latitude of Greenwich , is 772'55 foot-pounds .
II .
" The Cortical Lamination of the Motor Area of the Brain .
" By Bevan Lewis , F.R.M.S. , Pathologist and Assist .
Med. Officer to the West Riding Asylum , and Henry Clarke , L.R.C.P. Lond. , Med. Officer to the West Riding Prison .
Communicated by D. Ferrier , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Forensic Medicine , King 's College , London .
Received November 7 , 1877 .
[ Plates 1-3 .
] Whilst pursuing certain investigations upon the comparative histology of the brain , the authors of this article have been enabled to demonstrate certain facts with regard to cortical lamination , and to show the disposition and significance of certain elementary constituents , the importance of which , they believe , justifies their publication .

