]\gt ; 206 Mr. A. R. Forsyth .
On the Theta-Functions , [ Dec. Substance .
Formula .
M. P. Dichlorobenzol . . . . . . . .
85933 Bromaniline . . . . . . . . . . .
35971 Trinitrotoluol . . . . . . . . . .
35477 Here the first pair of values of are almost identical .
It is evident however , that this simple relation does not generally prevail ; indeed , in the case of isomeric substances , melting point may alter widely , while additive mula remains constant .
The following are examples of the identification of series by melting point : M. P. M. P. x-Trinitrotoluol . . . . . .
-Dinitrotoluol Trinibropheno ] -Dinitrotoluol . . . . . .
Nitrotoluol ( x-Dinitrophenol-Nitrophenol 44 The melting points recorded in the memoir are important physica ?
constants , now first determined with a small probable error , and with an apparatus of considerable simplicity : Under no range of ordinary atmospheric or latitude , and in no ordinary interval of time are these constants likely to become impaired .
Hence , if the substances referred to be prepared and preserved with average care , and handled with moderate skill , they constitute in themselves a set of thermometric standards , distributed mean intervals of about between and .
If these substances , or most of them , be at hand , they enable an investigator to at once calibrate and directly refer to the air bhermometer any standard mercurial instrument , withouf , the necessary application of any correction whatever .
IV .
" " Memoir on the Theta-Functions , particularly those of Two Variables By A. R. FoRSYTH , B.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by A. AYLEY , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 9 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The paper of which this is an abstract is divided into four parts , the whole being prefixed a list of the more important papers dealing with the double theta-functions .
Section I treats of what may be called Rosenhain 's theory , and its object is to obtain from a more general basis , and in an easier manner , the results given by Rosenhain in his essay " " Memoir sir les Fonctions des Deux Variables et a Quatre Periodes which obtained the 1881 .
] particutarty those of Two Variables .
207 prize given by the Paris Academy of Sciences in 1846 , and was published in the " " Memoires des Savans trangers , \ldquo ; tom . .
Taking as the definition of the general double theta-function and denoting the product of four functions , in which the characteristic numbers and the variables have the subscript indices 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 respectively , by there is investigated , by the guidance of Professor H. J. S. Smith 's paper on the Single Theta-Functions in the first volume of the " " Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society the theorem into 208 Mr. A. B. Forsyth .
On the Theta-Functions , [ Dec. 22 .
and similarly for the .
Since the assumption has been made that the sums of the four similarly situated numbers in the characteristics of the functions are all even , the equation comprises 4,096 cases .
This general resuIt seems to be new , but numerous particular cases occur in Rosenhain 's paper .
All the important parts of his theory are deduced , , the quadratic relations between the constant terms in the ten even functions ; the nine ratios of all but one of these by that one are expressed in terms of three independent constants ; and it is proved that the fifteen quotients of all functions but one by that one can be expressed in terms of two new variables , the expressions being given .
The connexion between ) , and where , and are perfectly determinate constants .
The ouadruple periodicity is investigated at the beginning of the section ; and afterwards definite-integral expressions for the periods are obtained , as , for example , ; and it is proved that satisfies a linear differential equation of the fourth order in of the quantities It may be mentioned that in dealing with the particular functions a current-number notation , . . .
, is used in prefereuce to the cumbrous , .
Section II gives the expansions of all the functions ( i ) in trigonomebrical series , ( ii ) in ascending powers of and Much use is throughout made of a theorem , ( being single theta-functions ) proved by means of known values of the single theta-functions .
From this properties are deduced:\mdash ; 1881 .
] particnlarty those of Variables .
209 The expressions for the four pairs of conjugate periods , two actual and two quasi ; The product theorem of Section I is obtained by means of the product theorem proved for single theta-functions by Professor Smith in the paper previously ioned ; By means of the differential equation which is -nown to satisfy ( see " " Cayley 's Elliptic Functions S 310 ) , it is proved that the general function satisfies two equations in of the form having the usual connexion with .
These equations are also investigated from the definition as well as which it is obvious from the theorem of this section that satisfies .
Expressions for all the constants occurring in the expansions of all the functions in powers of il , are obtained .
If we write . .
, it is proved that ' where with a similar expression for Section III forms the expression of the addition-theorem .
Although no addition-theorem proper exists for theta-functions , that is to say , although cannot be written down in terms of functions of and of , an expression is obtainable in every case for being either the same or diflerent functions .
Since any one 210 Mr. A. R. Forsyth .
On the Theta-Functions .
[ Dec. 22 , function of the sum of two pairs of variables may be oombined in a product with any one function of the difference of the same pairs 256 equations are necessary to give the co.mplete expression of the theorem .
These are written down in sixteen sets of sixteen each , that which is common to each set being the function of the difference of the pairs of variables .
Denoting by , .
, S. .
, . .
, one such equation is where is the value of when are both zero .
The obvious analogy with the case of the single theta-functions ( using the ordinary notation ) need hardly be pointed out .
In Section many of the properties already proved for the double theta-functions are generalised for the " " \ldquo ; ] theta-functions , Among these are : \mdash ; The periodicity ; The product theorem , which gives the product of four functions as the sum of products of four fuIlctions ; and from it several eneral equations are deduced ; The of the main theorem of Section II , is for the " " \ldquo ; tuple functions , . . .
, , and this is used , as before , to obtain The differential equations of the form and the of the form all satisfied by ; and to indicate a method of obtaining the constants the expansions of the 's in powers of the

