342 Some Photochemical Experiments with Pure Chlorophyll and their Bearing on Theories of Carbon Assimilation .
By Ingvar Jorgensen and Franklin Kidd .
( Communicated by V. H. Blackman , F.R.S. Received June 26 , 1916 .
) ( From the Department of Plant Physiology and Pathology , Imperial College of Science and Technology , London .
) CONTENTS .
page Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
342 Chlorophyll Extraction and Purification ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 345 The Preparation and Properties of a Colloidal Solution of Chlorophyll .
347 Experiments ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
349 Criticism of Previous Theories of the Function of Chlorophyll in Carbon Assimilation in view of the Experimental Data obtained in this I nvestigation\#151 ; ( 1 a)Theory of Usher and Priestley ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
355 ( 6 ) Theory of Wager ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
357 ( c ) Theory of Ewart ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 358 Conclusion ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 359 Summary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .\#171 ; 359 Literature Cited ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
360 Introduction .
The main features of the processes of carbon assimilation are that the green plant under the influence of radiant energy takes in carbon dioxide , evolves oxygen , and in the majority of cases produces carbohydrates .
The only aspect of these processes which has been subjected to detailed investigation is the intake of carbon dioxide , our knowledge of which is due to the extensive researches of F. F. Blackman and of R. Willstatter .
Blackman has investigated the factors , such as light , temperature , carbon dioxide supply , which influence the intake of carbon dioxide by the ordinary green leaf , while Willstatter has extended Blackman 's work by including quantitative investigation of the amount of chlorophyll .
When we turn , on the other hand , to the question of the actual physical and chemical processes of carbon assimilation we find many hypotheses , but few facts .
We are acquainted with the primary facts of the intake of carbon dioxide and the formation of carbohydrates , etc. , but we have no definite knowledge of the intermediate processes concerned .
Since the hypothesis of Baeyer in 1870 it has been generally supposed that carbon dioxide and water are synthesised to carbohydrates under the influence of light and in presence of chlorophyll , and that formaldehyde is an Some Photochemical Experiments with Pure Chlorophyll .
343 intermediate product in this synthesis .
Attention has consequently been directed to the detection of formaldehyde either in leaves themselves or in chlorophyll-containing systems outside the plant .
It is not possible in this paper to deal with all the work that has been published on this question .
Below we give in tabular form a summary of these investigations which will serve to make clear the incompleteness of the researches and the lack of concordance in the results obtained .
In regard to experiments conducted outside the plant an important fact , with which we are now acquainted , was overlooked , namely , that the crude chlorophyll used in such experiments was really a very impure substance .
Our knowledge of the chemistry of chlorophyll is now well advanced as a result of Willstatter 's researches .
We know that the chloroplasts contain two green and two yellow pigments .
These four pigments together with a much larger quantity of colourless substances are extracted by the solvents used by the earlier investigators , and are present in the crude chlorophyll obtained by evaporating down such an extract .
A good criterion of pure chlorophyll is that it is insoluble in petrol-ether , and even in a moderately impure condition is precipitated by it .
It is therefore significant that most investigators , including even the latest workers , Wager ( 1914 ) and Ewart ( 1915 ) , have used chlorophyll soluble in petrol-ether .
In view of this it is possible that the various results obtained by those workers may be due to some extent to the impurities present in the crude chlorophyll and not to the chlorophyll itself .
In order to distinguish in the reactions observed by previous workers between those due to chlorophyll itself and those due to impurities either in the pigment or in the reagents , we have employed pure chlorophyll .
We have also borne in mind the possibility of the photochemical production of formaldehyde by the solvents used .
So long as our knowledge of the chloroplast is as incomplete as it is at present , particularly as regards the distribution and components of the heterogeneous system which it constitutes , it is impossible , from experiments conducted outside the plant , to draw conclusions in regard to photochemical reactions taking place in the leaf .
Willstatter has shown that the molecule of both " chlorophyll a " and " chlorophyll b " consists of a chromogen complex combined with two ester groups so that the formula of " chlorophyll a " can be written ( MgN4C32H3oO ) ( COOCH3 ) ( COOC20H39 ) and that of " chlorophyll b " ( MgN4C32H2802 ) ( COOCH3 ) ( COOC20H39 ) .
VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; B. Table I. Supposed changes produced under illumination . .
Control experiments in dark .
Author .
In a chlorophyll , water , C02 system .
In a chlorophyll , water , 02 system .
In a chlorophyll , water , N2 system .
Pollacci , 1902 HCHO , H2 and CH4 formed .
C02 absorption not examined Not examined Not examined .
Usher and Priestley , 1906 and 1911 HCUO and H202 formed .
Chlorophyll bleached .
C02 absorption not examined Not examined Not examined .
Scliryver , 1910 HCHO formed .
C02 absorption not examined Not examined Not examined .
Warner , 1914 No trace of HCHO formed .
No HCHO and an oxidising substance formed .
Action not accelerated by traces of C02 but by PI20 .
Chlorophyll bleached No HCHO .
No bleaching C02 and 02 not examined .
No HCHO .
bleaching .
C02 absorption not examined Wager , 1914 Products not examined .
Bleaching not examined .
No C02 absorption detected An aldehyde and a volatile oxidising substance formed .
Chlorophyll bleached .
Considerable 02 absorption No change 02 no absorption , no bleaching .
C02 not examined .
Ewart , 1915 No HCHO and no reducing substance .
Considerable C02 absorption Large amounts of CH20 formed .
Chlorophyll bleached .
Bleaching accelerated by traces of C02 .
02 absorption not examined A dry film showed no change C02 gave same as in light .
02 and N2 not examined .
Chodat , 1915 HCHO and IT202 formed .
No mention of bleaching .
C02 absorption not examined Not examined Not examined Not examined .
344 Messrs. I. Jorgensen and F. Kidd .
Some Photochemical Experiments with Pure Chlorophyll .
345 As regards photochemical reactions we have mainly dealt with those which affect the chromogen complex of the chlorophyll molecule .
In regard to these we have found no qualitative difference in relation to the source of light used , whether daylight , an arc lamp , or ultra-violet light from a quartz mercury-vapour lamp .
For the sake of convenience and rapidity of work we have employed a mercury-vapour lamp since it gives a very intense and constant illumination .
The present investigation does not in any way claim to deal adequately with the photochemistry of chlorophyll .
Its object has been to deal with the question as to how far certain observations described by previous investigators can be justly used in support of their theories .
The production of formaldehyde by crude chlorophyll is used , for instance , by Usher and .
Priestley as the basis of their theory of carbon assimilation ; also the ; supposed formation of xanthophyll from chlorophyll in vitro is used by Ewart in support of his contention that chlorophyll combines with carbon dioxide with the production of xanthophyll and oxygen , the xanthophyll being oxidised in presence of water to produce hexose sugars .
Chlorophyll Extraction and Purification .
The method used for the extraction and purification of chlorophyll is described in detail by Willstiitter and Stole ( 13 , pp. 133-135 ; see also Jorgensen and Stiles ( 3 ) ) .
The principle of this method for the isolation of chlorophyll is that suggested by G. G. Stokes in 1864 , by which substances are separated from one another by their distribution between two immiscible solvents .
The material used consisted of nettle leaves dried at 30 to 40 ' C. , and ground to a fine powder .
The chlorophyll and accompanying substances are extracted with 80-percent .
acetone , and from this solution they are transferred to petrol-ether of S.G. 0'64 to 0'66 .
Prom this petrol-ether solution the colourless impurities are removed by washing with 80-per-cent , acetone .
The xanthophyll is next removed by washing the petrol-ether with 80-per-cent , methyl alcohol .
Pure chlorophyll is insoluble in petrol-ether , but is soluble if small quantities of other substances , as , for instance , methyl alcohol , are present .
The last traces of methyl alcohol and acetone have therefore to be removed by repeated washing with water .
The chlorophyll is then precipitated generally as a fine suspension while the carotin remains in solution .
The chlorophyll is obtained by filtering off the suspension through a layer of powdered talc , and is purified by dissolving it in pure , redistilled ether .
It is- 2 f 2 Messrs. I. Jorgensen and F. Kidd .
reprecipitated with petrol-ether , until finally a blue-black microcrystalline powder is obtained , which is a mixture of the two chlorophylls and As the purification of chlorophyll is somewhat difficult it is always advisable to test the purity of a chlorophyll preparation before use .
We therefore give below the criteria of purity of the pigment , more particularly because some investigators , Ewart ( 2 ) , for instance , state that Willstatter 's methods have been followed , although it is quite clear that the product which they describe as chlorophyll cannot have been of even moderate purity .
Criteria of Purity of Chlorophyll .
1 .
The substance should be free from yelloio pigments and colourless impurities.\#151 ; Fortunately , in Willstatter 's method of purification , the yellow pigments and colourless impurities are eliminated together , so that , generally , chlorophyll free from the yellow pigments is also free from the colourless impurities which are present along with the pigments in the ehloroplasts .
It is sufficient , therefore , to test for the presence of the yellow pigments .
This test is based on the fact that , by strong alkalis , chlorophyll is saponified to the water-soluble salts of the acids called chlorophyllins , while the yellow pigments are not attacked by alkalis .
A 30-per-cent , solution of potassium hydroxide in methyl alcohol is therefore added to an ethereal solution of chlorophyll , and water added after saponification is complete , The green chlorophyllin salts are then found in the aqueous alkaline layer and any yellow pigments present will immediately be detected by the colour they give to the ethereal layer .
Hence , if the chlorophyll is pure , the ethereal layer should remain colourless after such a saponification test .
2 .
The chlorophyll itself should remain unaltered during its extraction and purification.\#151 ; The changes in the composition of chlorophyll most likely to occur during its preparation are\#151 ; ( a ) The replacement of the magnesium by hydrogen , giving the magnesium-free derivative , phseophytin .
This takes place in an acid medium .
The presence of phseophytin is easily discovered , as it gives in solution a characteristic absorption spectrum containing two lines in the green , one just before the Fraunhofer line E , and one between the lines Eand F. These lines are not found in the chlorophyll spectrum , nor in the absorption spectrum of a freshly prepared leaf extract which contains no phseophytin .
Pure chlorophyll should therefore give in solution an absorption spectrum similar to that from a freshly prepared leaf extract .
Some Photochemical Experiments with Pure Chlorophyll .
347 ( b ) Allomerisation .
Particularly in water-free media , chlorophyll frequently undergoes a change , called by Willstatter allomerisation , which consists of an alteration in the internal constitution of the chlorophyll molecule .
Unaltered chlorophyll on saponification with alkali gives a brown colour , which , after a few minutes , changes back to green .
Allomerised chlorophyll does not give this " brown phase " on saponification .
( c ) The phytol group may have been attacked .
This is likely to take place if the chlorophyll is extracted from leaves rich in the enzyme chlorophyllase .
The substances formed by such an action on the phytol group are most frequently the acid chlorophyllide , the presence of which may be detected by extraction of the ether solution with dST/ 100 KOH , while the alkyl chlorophyllides , which possess strongly basic properties , are extracted with a 22-per-cent .
HC1 solution .
( id ) A further proof that the chlorophyll has remained unaltered is that , on saponification with hot alkali , it shall give the dissociation products " phytochlorin e " and " phytorhodin g. " The Preparation and Properties of a Colloidal Solution of Chlorophyll .
Earlier investigators have used either a true solution of chlorophyll or a film of solid chlorophyll .
A few investigators have used what they call an " emulsion , " by which must presumably be understood water containing solid lumps of chlorophyll .
In view of Willstatter 's researches it is extremely unlikely that any solvent which dissolves chlorophyll is present in sufficient quantity in the leaf to give a true solution , nor is it at all likely that chlorophyll is present as a solid layer .
There is good reason therefore to assume with Willstatter that chlorophyll is present in the leaf in the colloidal condition .
I ' Chlorophyll in colloidal solution is an electronegative suspensoid .
In the preparation of a chlorophyll sol a method is used which is frequently employed to obtain colloidal solutions , viz. , the replacement of the solvent of a true solution of the substance by a medium in which the latter is insoluble , but which is miscible with the solvent .
Thus chlorophyll is soluble in methyl alcohol , ethyl alcohol , acetone , and pyridin , but insoluble in water .
A colloidal solution can therefore be prepared by dissolving chlorophyll in any one of these four solvents and mixing the solution so obtained with a large volume of water .
By using a colloidal solution with water as the dispersion medium one has a definite system which can be reproduced at will .
Further , in such a system , other substances ( gaseous , liquid , or solid ) can Messrs. I. Jorgensen and F. Kidd .
be introduced so as to be uniformly distributed among the original components of the heterogeneous system .
It is important to bear in mind that actions in heterogeneous systems are not comparable with those taking place in true solutions .
Preparation.\#151 ; The chlorophyll sol was prepared by dissolving 0-40 grm. of pure chlorophyll ( " a " + " b " ) in 3 c.c. of absolute alcohol , and adding the solution to 300 c.c. of distilled water .
This was the sol used in most of our experiments .
The way in which the alcohol solution is mixed with the water influences the dispersion , but by always making up the sol under exactly the same conditions , uniformity can be obtained .
Properties.\#151 ; The chlorophyll sol is pure green in colour , somewhat opalescent , without fluorescence , and of a much greater depth of colour than a true solution of the same strength .
Chlorophyll sol offers opportunities for very exact investigations into the properties of suspensoids owing to the fact , first pointed out by Willstatter , that certain of the solvents of chlorophyll which are immiscible with water , such as ether , petrol-ether , benzene , do not remove chlorophyll from colloidal solution when shaken up with it , but immediately remove it if it is precipitated .
Consequently the extent of precipitation of the colloid can always be estimated by colorimetric examination of the ethereal extract .
We found that in 24 hours chlorophyll was completely precipitated from the colloidal solution by sodium chloride when the latter was present in concentration N/ 25 , but in N/ 30 sodium chloride no precipitation took place .
Similarly with magnesium chloride a concentration of N/ 100 causes complete precipitation of the chlorophyll , while there is no precipitation when the concentration of the magnesium chloride is reduced to N/ 125 .
Addition of small quantities of alkalies stabilises the sol , while precipitation is facilitated by additions of small quantity of acid .
Strong acids are particularly efficient m effecting precipitation .
Thus the sol described above was precipitated in N/ 500 sulphuric acid .
If , however , a weak acid of a much higher concentration , for example , N/ 5 boric acid , is used , no precipitation takes place .
If such a colloidal solution without any added substance is exposed to air there is no precipitation , but it will gradually change in colour to yellow-green and finally bleach , the rate at which this takes place being greater in the light than in the dark .
Owing to the method of preparation of the chlorophyll sol described above it will be observed that the colloidal solution contains a small quantity of solvent ( e.g. , absolute alcohol ) in which the chlorophyll is first dissolved .
The influence of the presence of this solvent in any system used must obviously Some Photochemical Experiments with Pure Chlorophyll .
349 be considered .
From among the four substances at our disposal ( methyl and ethyl alcohols , acetone , and pyridine ) we chose ethyl alcohol , for the following reasons .
Pyridine is the best solvent for chlorophyll and mixes very readily with water , but on account of its strongly basic properties it would be impossible to examine the influence of acids in its presence .
As carbon dioxide forms only a weak acid with water , the action of this gas on a chlorophyll sol could not be examined in presence of pyridine .
There is also a difficulty in obtaining pyridine absolutely free from impurities , and it gives oxidation products on exposure to light which interfere with tests for formaldehyde .
Also owing to its high boiling point it cannot be removed by evaporation under reduced pressure .
The use of methyl alcohol is also inadvisable , as tests showed that under the conditions of our experiments it oxidises very readily to formaldehyde .
Similarly acetone was not available , as it also produces formaldehyde on exposure to light .
It must be emphasised that to the other sources of error in the experiments of earlier workers dealing with the production of formaldehyde by chlorophyll this one , arising from the presence of traces of the solvent used , must be added .
Ethyl alcohol on exposure to ultra-violet light in quartz vessels gives formaldehyde , but not when exposed in glass tubes .
Therefore ethyl alcohol was used in the preparation of the chlorophyll sol and glass vessels were generally employed , quartz vessels being only used for special purposes .
When necessary the concentration of alcohol in the colloidal solution was reduced by evaporation under reduced pressure.* Experiments .
In these experiments a definite quantity of the chlorophyll sol was introduced into test-tubes from which the air was subsequently evacuated .
The tubes were then filled with the particular gas or gas mixture desired , sealed off , and exposed to light .
When a mercury vapour lamp ( 3'5 amp .
) was used , they were placed at a distance of 10 cm .
from the lamp .
The results obtained with different gases were as follows:\#151 ; * In this connection we should like to draw attention to a simple method , much superior to the iodoform method in sensitiveness , for estimating small quantities of alcohol ( Klocker , 4 ) .
By this method one pa rt of alcohol in 500,000 to 1,000,000 can be detected ; 5 c.c. of the liquid to be examined are put in a tube 180 mm. long and 24 mm. in diameter , closed with a cork through which passes a glass tube 80 cm .
long and 3 mm. in diameter , the lower part not prolonged below the lower level of the cork .
The liquid is then boiled gently with the tube in a vertical position .
If alcohol be present characteristic oily drops appear in the tube ; the less alcohol present the higher the level in the tube at which the drops appear .
The same reaction is given with acetone .
Messrs. I. Jorgensen and F. Kidd .
( a ) Nitrogen .
On exposure of chlorophyll sol to light in presence of nitrogen no apparent change takes place to the chromogen complex of the chlorophyll molecule , even after several hundred hours ' exposure to the light of a mercury vapour lamp , and no formaldehyde is produced .
( b ) Carbon Dioxide .
Colloidal solutions of chlorophyll of different concentrations were exposed to light in presence of carbon dioxide .
In all cases there was a rapid change of the pigment to yellow-green or brownish-green , the colour change being preceded in the sols of highest concentrations by precipitation of the colloid .
The same change takes place if the tubes are kept in the dark , but the action is considerably slower .
The colour is not further changed by prolonged exposure to light , nor by any further keeping in the dark .
It may be recalled here that the action of acids on chlorophyll is to produce the magnesium-free derivative phseophytin , which possesses this same yellow-green or brownish-green colour .
As carbon dioxide in water forms a weak acid , it at once suggests that the action of carbon dioxide on a colloidal solution of chlorophyll is simply that of an acid .
That this is indeed the explanation of the change observed in the chromogpn complex of chlorophyll becomes evident from the following experiments:\#151 ; 1 .
An exactly similar colour change is produced when the chlorophyll sol is treated with other weak acids , such as boric acid or acetic acid .
If , for instance , some chlorophyll sol is sealed off in an atmosphere of nitrogen with boric acid ( for instance , 5 c.c. of sol + 1 c.c. N. boric acid ) and exposed to ' light , the colour change is exactly similar to that in the tube containing the chlorophyll sol and carbon dioxide , and takes place in about the same time .
2 .
If the sol is made up in water from a solution of chlorophyll in pyridine , no change in colour takes place in an atmosphere of carbon dioxide .
The sol contains a little pyridine , which is a strong base , so the acid is neutralised and the change to phseophytin prevented .
If a sol made up from an alcohol solution is kept in an ordinary loosely stoppered bottle in the dark it will , in the course of a few months , gradually turn yellow-green .
A sol made up from a pyridine solution will under the same conditions remain quite unchanged in colour .
3 .
It is possible to maintain approximate neutrality in experiments with carbon dioxide by using sodium bicarbonate in the solution .
A solution containing H2CO3 and ISTaHCOs in the proportions of 1 to 3'75 is approximately neutral , but to avoid precipitation of the colloid the concentration of the bicarbonate must be kept low , consequently full atmospheric pressure Sortie Photochemical Experiments with Pure Chlorophyll .
351 of carbon dioxide cannot be employed .
Accordingly a pressure of 380 mim C02 + 380 mm. Ng was used .
In such a system the colour of the chlorophyll remained unchanged .
4 .
The yellow-green derivative , produced by the action of carbon dioxide on chlorophyll , was precipitated by magnesium chloride and extracted with ether .
The ethereal extract was evaporated to dryness and the pigment dissolved in alcohol .
On addition of a trace of copper acetate to the boiling alcohol solution a bright green colour appears .
This reaction is characteristic of the magnesium-free derivatives of chlorophyll .
When the magnesium of the chlorophyll molecule is replaced by hydrogen in the formation of phseophytin this is accompanied by the colour change from green to yellow or brownish-green already noted .
On treating phaeophytin with copper acetate the hydrogen is replaced by copper , and with the re-entrance of a metal ( copper ) into the chromogen complex , the colour changes back to a brilliant green .
This colour change is very striking .
A similar green compound is obtained when zinc acetate is used .
The compound obtained with boric acid behaves in a similar way towards copper acetate .
5 .
The yellow-green substance in ethereal and alcoholic solution wa\amp ; submitted to a careful spectroscopic examination .
It gave the characteristic absorption spectrum of phaeophytin , chiefly characterised by a strong absorption band before the line E and another one between the lines E and F. The substance obtained with boric acid gave an identical spectrum .
The experiments described under 4 and 5 were also carried out with a true solution of chlorophyll in alcohol ( about 98 per cent. ) which was subjected to the action of carbon dioxide ; identical results were obtained .
A much greater amount of carbon dioxide is necessary here , owing probably to the lesser degree of ionisation of the carbonic acid in alcohol .
Formaldehyde Test.\#151 ; Tests for formaldehyde were made after short and long exposures of the colloidal solution in the presence of carbon dioxide and also with the bicarbonate system .
Various sources of illumination were used , , sunlight , arc-lamp , mercury-vapour lamp , but in no case was any indication obtained of the presence of formaldehyde .
We have attempted , by means of the apparatus figured ( fig. 1 ) , to* rig* .
1 .
Messrs. I. Jorgensen and F. Kidd .
determine whether the illuminated chlorophyll sol has any action on carbon dioxide .
If any disappearance of carbon dioxide , due to a catalytic action of chlorophyll , takes place under the conditions , it might be possible , even with small quantities of chlorophyll , to get appreciable diminution of the carbon dioxide present * The apparatus consists of a glass vessel provided with a side tube and a manometer with a tap .
The procedure is as follows : the chlorophyll sol is introduced through the side tube , the vessel is evacuated , carbon dioxide introduced , and the side tube sealed off .
The apparatus is placed in a thermostat , and , by noting the barometric pressure , the pressure of the gas can be accurately determined .
An apparatus of this description enables one to follow from time to time changes in the gas-content of the vessel .
If a strong concentration of the sol is used precipitation takes place .
Hence , only the results of experiments with moderate concentrations of the sol are here described .
Strong concentrations up to 200 mgrm .
in 100 c.c. are employed , but the question of absorption here becomes so complex that a detailed investigation is required.f With moderate concentrations no appreciable absorption was found , although in most cases an absorption of 0-001 grm. of carbon dioxide could have been detected .
The following is a typical result : 20 c.c. of a sol ( concentration 40 mgrm .
in 300 c.c. water ) were contained in the vessel of volume 120 c.c. , filled with carbon dioxide under a pressure of 820 mm. of mercury , at a temperature of 20 ' C. The pressure of the gas remained unchanged for 24 hours .
The following Table indicates the colour change taking place in the experiment .
Time of illuminations .
Pressure .
Colour .
hr .
mm. Ilg .
0 821 Green .
4 821 Yellowish green .
5 820 \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; 8 822 Yellow brown .
10 819 No further change .
20 820 33 33 The slight variations in pressure are within the limits of experimental error .
* It is possible , on the other hand , that catalysis , though occurring , might not proceed to any appreciable degree in vitro , while in the living plant it might nevertheless proceed vigorously owing to a continual removal of products .
t It is clear three processes are possible here : ( 1 ) absorption of carbon dioxide by the dispersion medium , ( 2 ) absorption of carbon dioxide by the chlorophyll phase , ( 3 ) removal of carbon dioxide by chemical action during illumination .
The method here employed would give information concerning the last process only .
Some Photochemical Experiments with Pure Chlorophyll .
353 At the end of the experiment the gas was analysed in a Haldane gas analysis apparatus , and was found to consist of 100 per cent , carbon dioxide .
( c ) Oxygen .
It is well known that chlorophyll bleaches rapidly in air or in oxygen when exposed to light .
This was also the case in our own experiments with a colloidal solution of chlorophyll .
The bleaching is preceded by a change in colour from green to yellow-green or brown-green , similar to that produced when carbon dioxide was used .
Spectroscopic examination indicates the presence of phaeophytin .
It seems reasonable to- suppose that an acid substance is produced during the bleaching , which reacts with the chlorophyll not yet bleached , giving phaeophytin in the usual way .
If a small quantity of alkali is added the brown-coloured stage is omitted and bleaching accelerated .
Formaldehyde Test.\#151 ; Formaldehyde is not produced in any quantity during the bleaching of chlorophyll in oxygen , but , after bleaching is complete , formaldehyde is formed in amounts which can be easily estimated .
We have made estimations of the quantity of formaldehyde produced by the action of oxygen on chlorophyll after various times of exposure to light , using Schryver 's method for estimating small quantities ( Schryver , 6 , 7 ) .
The results of these experiments are summarised in the accompanying Table , and are exhibited graphically in the curves shown in fig. 2 .
We have already mentioned the production of formaldehyde from alcohol exposed in quartz vessels .
The curve C shows how large is the quantity of formaldehyde produced when this substance is present .
In this case a chlorophyll sol ( with traces of alcohol ) was exposed to light in a large quartz vessel , and samples examined from time to time .
In the case of glass vessels , the presence of traces of ethyl alcohol makes no difference in the amount of formaldehyde produced , as is shown by a comparison of curves A and D. The small quantities of formaldehyde obtained before bleaching is complete are no doubt produced from the part of the chlorophyll already bleached .
It seems reasonable to suggest that the production of formaldehyde is due to the oxidation of the methyl or phytyl ester groups of the chlorophyll molecule .
According to Willstatter , the alcohol phytol is a primary alcohol of formula C20H39OH , whose structure may be represented thus:\#151 ; CH3\#151 ; CH\#151 ; ch\#151 ; CH\#151 ; CH\#151 ; ch\#151 ; ch\#151 ; ch\#151 ; c=c\#151 ; ch2oh I I I I I I I I I ch3 oh3 \lt ; jh3 ch3 ch3 ch3 ch3 ch3 ch3 In the oxidation and breaking down of this alcohol , it is evident that Table II .
Milligrammes of chlorophyll originally present .
Milligrammes formaldehyde present after given intervals .
Remarks .
0-6 Hours Mgrm .
formaldehyde 3 6 ... 0-004 0-007 ( bleached ) 10 o-oi 14 0-016 19 0-04 24 o-oi 39 0-007 Thin glass tubes , 100 per cent. 02 .
Each estimation made from a separate tube .
Traces of ethyl alcohol not removed .
0-5 Hours Mgrm .
formaldehyde 5 18 ... 0*013 0 *04 ( bleached ) 23 0-024 28 0-02 35 0-016 48 0-008 78 0-002 Quartz vessel , 100 per cent. 02 .
Traces of alcohol removed .
Estimations made by withdrawing samples at intervals .
0-5 Hours Mgrm .
formaldehyde ... 0-008 0-01 6 0-016 10 0-08 16 0-4 20 1 -2 40 1 -8 Quartz vessel , 100 per cent. 02 .
Traces of alcohol not removed .
Estimations made by withdrawing samples at intervals .
0-6 Hours Mgrm .
formaldehyde 10 16 19 ... 0-002 0-004 0-004 ( bleached ) 27 0-008 31 o-oi 46 0 02 60 100 130 200 0 -04 0 016 0 -016 0 -01 Thick glass tubes , 100 per cent. 02 .
Each estimation made from a separate tube .
Traces of alcohol not removed .
354 Messrs. I. Jorgensen and F. Kidd .
Some Photochemical Experiments Pure Chlorophyll .
355 formaldehyde might be produced in large quantities .
This does not exclude the possibility that the complete breaking down of the chromogen complex may also yield formaldehyde among its oxidation products .
oio io 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 no 120 130 140 150 Hours illumination Curves of Formaldehyde Production in the Plioto-oxidation of Chlorophyll Sols .
These curves are based on the data given in Table II .
In the case of curves A and D glass tubes were used , but the glass was thick in D , thin in A ; also the traces of ethyl alcohol were removed in the case of D , but not in the case of A. In the case of curves B and C a quartz vessel was used ; the alcohol was removed in the case of B , but not in the case of C. It will be observed from the curve ( fig. 2 ) that the quantity of formaldehyde produced reaches a maximum , and then decreases in amount .
This is probably due to further oxidation of the formaldehyde to formic acid .
The liquid , indeed , increases in acidity from the beginning of the experiment .
Criticism of Previous Theories of the Function of Chlorofhyll in Carbon Assimilation in view of the Experimental Data obtained in this Investigation .
a. Theory of Usher and Priestley .
In a series of papers ( 10 ) on the mechanism of carbon assimilation , these .authors have expressed the opinion that the initial stages of this process are " entirely non-vital and can be reconstructed in vitro .
" They consider the first stage as consisting of the photolysis of aqueous carbonic acid with the production of formaldehyde and hydrogen peroxide , the evolution of oxygen being due to the decomposition of the latter substance by catalase .
Messrs. I. Jorgensen and F. Kidd .
This conclusion is in strong contrast to that drawn by Willstatter from his .
own experiments(14 , 15 ) .
" In spite of numerous experiments with extracted chlorophyll or isolated chloroplasts we have been unable to-reproduce the phenomena of carbon assimilation outside the plant .
" Unfortunately this important statement was not accompanied by any experimental evidence .
It is , however , the view to which the present authors have been led .
We do not intend to deal with the indirect evidence brought forward by Usher and Priestley in support of their theory , such as the production of ' formaldehyde from carbon dioxide and water exposed to light in quartz tubes ; these and similar experiments by other investigators have been criticised adversely by H. A. Spoehr ( 8 ) .
With regard to the direct evidence of the production of formaldehyde in chlorophyll-containing systems , we have not been able to obtain any evidence of formaldehyde production in systems containing chlorophyll , carbon dioxide , and water .
Formaldehyde production was always limited to systems containing oxygen .
But even minute traces of oxygen are capable of accounting for small quantities of formaldehyde .
If crude chlorophyll is used the small amount of oxygen present in the commercial nitrogen and carbon dioxide obtained from gas cylinders can give rise to a large formaldehyde production .
Although some of Usher and Priestley 's results can be explained by the oxidation of crude chlorophyll , other of the results can hardly be interpreted as due to this cause .
Thus these authors give an account of some experiments ( 1911 , p. 103 ) , of which they state that they carried out a considerable number with concordant results .
In these experiments there were exposed to light two pairs of sealed glass tubes containing : ( 1 ) Chlorophyll , air , catalase , and caustic potash , ( 2 ) chlorophyll , air , and caustic potash ; ( 3 ) chlorophyll , air , catalase , and caustic potash , ( 4 ) chlorophyll , catalase , air , and carbon dioxide .
They found that the chlorophyll bleached much more quickly in tubes 2 and 4 than that in 1 and 3 .
While 3 gave only a trace of formaldehyde , 4 exposed to light for the same time gave a marked formaldehyde reaction .
It is indeed tempting , and seems at first sight quite reasonable , to assume that the increased quantity of formaldehyde produced in 4 as compared with 3 is due to the carbon dioxide , and that 1 remains green longer than 2 because in the former the catalase destroys the hydrogen peroxide responsible for the bleaching .
But considered more closely these experiments become quite concordant with our results .
Usher and Priestley have neglected the possibility of the Some Photochemical Experiments with Pure Chlorophyll .
357 " activity of the enzyme being affected by the different experimental conditions in the various tubes .
Sorensen ( 9 ) , however , has emphasised the fact that for many enzyme actions there is not only a temperature optimum but also a definite concentration of hydrogen ions at which maximum activity is obtained .
For catalase Sorensen found that the optimum activity was obtained at absolute neutrality , diminishing with increase both of acidity and of alkalinity .
In Usher and Priestley 's experiments the catalase was mixed with gelatine , into which carbon dioxide would diffuse , and the increased acidity resulting would inhibit the action of the catalase .
The result of Usher and Priestley 's experiments would then be explained thus : 1 .
The production of formaldehyde is always due to the oxidation of chlorophyll or the accompanying substances in the crude chlorophyll .
2 .
The bleaching is due to the oxidation of chlorophyll under the action of light .
3 .
The inhibition of bleaching in the tube 1 in the experiment referred to above is due to the catalase system preventing the oxygen from acting on the chlorophyll .
4 .
The formaldehyde production in tube 4 is due to the decrease in the activity of the catalase system owing to the acidity produced by carbon dioxide , formaldehyde being produced by oxidation of the chlorophyll .
Unfortunately tube 2 was not examined for formaldehyde .
b. Theory of Wager .
Wager ( 11 ) observed an active absorption of oxygen by his chlorophyll extract and the formation , as the result of oxidation , of considerable quantities of formaldehyde .
On these two observations Wager suggests a theory of carbon assimilation in which carbon dioxide is in one way or another " built up independently into the chlorophyll molecule , " and the carbohydrate production then " initiated by the photo-oxidation of chlorophyll and subsequent polymerisation of the aldehyde thus formed , rather than by the direct photo-synthesis of carbon dioxide and water .
" Neither of the two observations on which the theory is based can be considered satisfactory .
It has been shown by Willstiitter that it is only the yellow pigments which are able to absorb oxygen with rapidity and in large quantities .
As Wager states that he worked with a crude alcoholic extract of the leaf pigments , evaporated to dryness and redissolved in petrol-ether , the rapid absorption of oxygen observed by him must almost certainly have been due to the yellow pigments , and cannot therefore be used in support of a theory of the action of chlorophyll .
Messrs. I. Jorgensen and F. Kidd .
As to the production of an aldehyde on oxidation , it has been shown above that , as far as chlorophyll is concerned , formaldehyde is only produced at a late stage in the process of oxidation after bleaching of the .chlorophyll has taken place .
It is thus a purely secondary product , arising probably from the phytol which has been split off from the chlorophyll molecule .
c. Theory of Ewart .
It is obvious from Ewart 's paper ( 1 ) that he was not acquainted with the work described in Willstatter 's book ( 13 ) , and it is clear that the method of extraction Ewart employs , which he calls a modification of Willstatter 's , will not give pure chlorophyll .
It is significant also from the description of his " pure " pigments that they have properties different from those of Willstatter , for instance , with regard to solubility .
Also the formula for chlorophyll given by Ewart is that suggested by Willstatter in earlier papers , and is not the one put forward by Willstatter in his later book .
Ewart is one of the first among recent workers to realise that carbon dioxide assimilation is not a simple process , the first stage of which is represented by the equation CO2 + H2O = HCHO + O2 , but a complex one in which at least two pigments and their derivatives take part .
However , it is clear that the theory advanced by Ewart is not sufficiently supported by experimental .evidence .
His main hypothesis is that carbon dioxide and water combine with the phytyl group to give xanthophyll and oxygen .
A portion of this oxygen is then used to oxidise the xanthophyll into phytol , hexose sugars and formaldehyde , while the remainder is excreted from the chloroplast .
The formaldehyde is then polymerised to hexoses either by contact with the chlorophyll or by dilute alkali in the protoplasm around the chloroplast .
Without entering into any detailed discussion of Ewart 's hypothesis attention must be drawn to the fact that in our experiments we have never been able to obtain xanthophyll in a system containing chlorophyll , carbon dioxide , and water , but we have obtained a yellowish-green substance which we have identified as phaeophytin .
One is almost forced to assume either that Ewart 's chlorophyll contained xanthophyll , or that the yellow substance he obtained was phaeophytin .
Unfortunately Ewart does not state on what evidence he relied for the identification of his xanthophyll .
In regard to Ewart 's hypothesis of the re-formation of chlorophyll from xanthophyll it has to be remembered that the magnesium-free derivatives of chlorophyll very easily take up certain other metals and form a colour complex resembling that of chlorophyll ; even the small traces of metals contained in the walls of glass vessels are sufficient for this .
Thus Willstatter was able to test for the presence or absence of zinc in glass Some Photochemical Experiments with Pure Chlorophyll .
359 vessels by the zinc chlorophyll formed from a magnesium-free derivative of chlorophyll .
It suggests ' that Ewart 's experiment on the re-formation of chlorophyll from a mixture of xanthophyll and bleached chlorophyll ( in one case indeed zinc dust was added ) should be interpreted as the taking up of a metal by a yellowish or colourless magnesium-free derivative , by which a complex , chlorophyll-green in colour , is produced .
Conclusion .
The result of this investigation is to show how unsatisfactory is the experimental evidence on which the various theories of the function of chlorophyll are based .
Summary- .
1 .
Certain photochemical reactions of chlorophyll , on which previous workers have based theories of carbon assimilation , have been examined .
Earlier investigators have used crude chlorophyll containing , besides the two chlorophyll pigments , yellow pigments and other substances .
In the present experiments pure chlorophyll ( " a " + " ) , extracted by the method of Willstatter and Stole , and satisfying the criteria of purity given by them , has been used .
2 .
The chlorophyll was used as a sol , with water as dispersion medium .
This sol , in contact with various gases in closed vessels , was exposed to light .
The following are the results obtained:\#151 ; ( a ) Nitrogen.\#151 ; In nitrogen no change in the chromogen complex of the chlorophyll molecule takes place .
( b ) Carbon Dioxide.\#151 ; In carbon dioxide the magnesium-free derivative phseophytin is produced .
In this action carbon dioxide behaves in solution like any other weak acid .
No further change in the chromogen complex takes place .
Formaldehyde is not formed .
( c ) Oxygen.\#151 ; In oxygen the first change observed is the yellowing and ultimate bleaching of the chlorophyll .
The yellowing is due to the presence of phseophytin .
If alkali is added this yellow stage is omitted and the bleaching accelerated .
In the first stages , while bleaching is in progress , formaldehyde is produced only in very small quantities , but , after bleaching is complete , the quantity of formaldehyde increases , rapidly reaching a maximum and then diminishing .
The acidity of the system , on the other hand , increases throughout .
It is suggested that the formaldehyde arises mainly from the phytol , which is probably split off from the chlorophyll molecule under the action of light and oxygen .
3 .
The hypotheses put forward by Usher and Priestley , H. Wager , and VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; B. 2 G 360 Some Photochemical Experiments with Pure Chlorophyll .
Ewart , as to the chemical changes occurring in the process of carbon assimilation by green plants , are not supported by experimental evidence .
In conclusion , we would thank Mr. W. Stiles for his co-operation in the work of extraction and purification of the pigments , and we should like to express our indebtedness to Prof. Y. H. Blackman for the facilities he has given us , and for his continued advice and criticism .
[ Note added October 12 , 1916.\#151 ; Of Willstatter 's three papers on chlorophyll which appeared in 1915 , only that in the ' Berichte der deutschen chemischen Gesellschaft ' ( 1915 , No. 13 , p. 1540 ) was available at the time the manuscript of this paper was completed ; the other two ( ' Sitzungsber .
d. kgl .
preuss .
Akad .
der Wissen .
, ' 1915 , p. 322 and p. 544 ) were only accessible in the form of very brief abstracts .
We were thus unaware that Willstatter had made experiments on the behaviour of a chlorophyll solution exposed to carbon dioxide .
Now that copies of the journal containing the other two papers are available in this country , we find that Willstatter has made such experiments , and arrives at the conclusion put forward above , that phaeo-phytin is produced under these conditions .
] LITERATURE CITED .
1 .
Chodat , R. , and Schweizer , K. , " De Templed de la peroxidase comme r^actif de la photolyse par la chlorophylle , " 'Archives des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles , ' vol. 39 , p. 334 ( 1915 ) .
2 .
Ewart , A. J. , " On the Function of Chlorophyll , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 89 , p. 1 ( 1915 ) .
3 .
Jorgensen , I. , and Stiles , W. , " Carbon Assimilation : A review of recent work on the pigments of the lestf and the processes connected with them , " 'New Phyto-logist , ' October , November , December , 1915 ; January , February , etc. , 1916 .
4 .
Klocker , A. , " Methode pour reconnaitre la presence de petites quantites d'alcool , etc. , " ' Comptes-Rendus du Laboratoire de Carlsberg , ' vol. 10 , p. 99 ( 1911 ) .
5 .
Pollacci , G. , " Intorno all ' Assimilatione Clorofilliana , " ' 1st .
Bot. d. R. Univ. di Pavia , ' vol. 8 ( 1902 ) .
6 .
Schryver , S. B. , ' Reports to the Local Government Board on the Application of Formaldehyde to Meat , ' 1909 .
7 .
Schryver , S. B. , " The Photochemical Formation of Formaldehyde in Green Plants , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 82 , p. 226 ( 1910 ) .
8 .
Spoehr , H. A. , " The Theories of Photosynthesis in the Light of Some New Facts , " ' Plant World , ' vol. 19 , p. 1 ( 1916 ) .
9 .
Sorensen , S. P. L. , " Etudes enzymatiques , II , " 'Comptes Rendus du Laboratoire de Carlsberg , ' vol. 8 , p. 148 ( 1909 ) .
10 .
Usher , F. L. , and Priestley , J. H. , " A Study of the Mechanism of Carbon Assimilation in Green Plants , I , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 77 , p. 369 ( 1906 ) ; II , Ibid. , vol. 78 , p. 318 ( 1906 ) ; III , Ibid. , vol. 84 , p. 101 ( 1911 ) .
Investigations dealing ivith Phenomena of " " Formations .
361 11 .
Wager , H. , The Action of Light on Chlorophyll , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 87 , p. 386 ( 1914 ) .
12 .
Warner , C. H. , " Formaldehyde as Oxidation Product of Chlorophyll Extracts , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 87 , p. 378 ( 1914 ) .
13 .
Willstatter , R. , and Stole , A. , ' Untersuchungen iiber Chlorophyll : Methoden und Ergebnisse , ' Berlin , 1913 .
14 .
Willstatter , R , .
, and Stole , A. , " Untersuchungen iiber die Assimilation der Kohlensaure , " ' Bei'ichte d. Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
, ' vol. 48 , p. 1540 ( 1915 ) .
15 .
Willstatter , R. , and Stole , A. , ' Sitzungsber .
d. kgl .
preuss .
Akad .
d. Wiss , ' 'p .
524 , 1915 .
Investigations dealing ivith the Phenomena of " Clot .
" Formations .
Part IV.\#151 ; The Diphasic# Erosive Action of Salts on the Cholate Gel .
By S. B. Schryver and Mary Hewlett .
( Communicated by Y. H. Blackman , F.R.S. Received June 26 , 1916 .
) ( From the Department of Plant Physiology and Pathology , Imperial College of Science and Technology , London .
) Introduction .
In the last communicationf of this series , attention was called to the fact that the cholate gel is eroded when immersed in solutions of sodium chloride and other chlorides , and that this erosive action can be " antagonised " by addition to the chloride solutions of relatively small amounts of calcium chloride .
The analogy between this action and the biological " antagonistic " action of calcium towards sodium and other salts was also commented upon and illustrated by examples from the researches of Loeb , Osterhout and other investigators .
In addition , however , to the antagonism between calcium salts on the one hand and sodium , potassium and magnesium salts on the other hand , Loeb has shown in the case of Fundulusthat there is evidence of antagonism between potassium and sodium salts , that is to say that the toxic action of one salt can be rendered more or less innocuous by the addition of the other .
Osterhout has shown that certain marine plants will retain their vital * The term " diphasic " used in the sub-title to this paper refers to the diphasic form of the curve produced when the concentrations of the eroding salts are plotted as abscissae and the amounts of erosion as ordinates .
t Schryver , * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 89 , p. 176 ( 1916 ) .

