94 Proceedings and List of Papers read .
gen scales .
But Chappuis 's numbers only apply when the glass ther-mometers are treated and read in the way in which he treated them in his comparisons . .
That is the great advantage in using the Tonnelot thermometer .
It is not an absolute but an intermediate standard .
It is immaterial whether Chappuis 's method of treating a glass thermometer can be improved upon by adopting a different way of obtaining the zero , or by making corrections for effects of capillarity .
It is sufficient to know that consistent results can be obtained if the thermometers are always treated in the same way , and whether that way is good or bad , it is the only one which can be used , if we wish to refer the temperature measurement to Chappuis 's hydrogen thermometer .
For this reason , and also because we have not at present any guarantee that flint glass thermometers agree sufficiently in composition to give identical results , Mr. Sworn 's conclusions cannot at present be accepted as final .
Mr. Chree 's experience* tends in the direction of indicating differences in the behaviour of different thermometers nominally made of the same glass .
January 25 , 1900 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution.\#151 ; On the Law of Reversion .
" By Professor Karl Pearson , F.R.S. ( II .
" On the Mechanism of Gelation in Reversible Colloidal Systems .
" By W. B. Hardy .
Communicated by F. H. Neville , F.R.S. III .
" A Preliminary Investigation of the Conditions which determine the Stability of Irreversible Hydrosols .
" By W. B. Hardy .
Communicated by F. H. Neville , F.R.S. IV .
" On the Effects of Strain on the Thermo-electric Qualities of Metals .
Part II .
" By Dr. Magnus Maclean .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. V. " On the Periodicity in the Electric Touch of Chemical Elements .
Preliminary Notice .
" By Professor Jagadis Chunder Bose .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. * 'Phil .
Mag./ vol. 45 , p. 216 ( 1898 ) .

