358 Respiration of Myriapoda .
" Ginger-beer ."[Jan .
21 , tion , if the solution surrounding one of the electrodes contains oxygen in solution .
He establishes , further , the fact that in such cases the metal actually enters into solution , and explains thereby a variety of phenomena .
From his observations there seems little doubt that even in a solution of silver nitrate silver may dissolve to a slight extent .
The amount so dissolved is possibly increased when the silver is in the nascent state , and may then become measurable.* We draw the general conclusion from our experiments that the true electrochemical equivalent of silver is probably not quite one part in a thousand greater than the value given by Lord Rayleigh , but that , if the experiments are conducted in air and under circum-stances similar to those under which Lord Rayleigh 's measurements were made , the anomalies described by us do not interfere with the use of the silver voltameter as a current measurer .
On the contrary , the fact that we were able to show the existence of systematic differences amounting to not more than two parts in ten thousand is a proof of its trustworthiness .
VI .
" A new Mode of Respiration in the Myriapoda .
" By F. G. Sinclair ( formerly F. G. Heathcote ) , M.A. , Fellow of the Cambridge Philosophical Society .
Communicated by A. Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received January 8 , 1892 .
[ This is a new version of the Paper read November 26 , 1891 .
See ante , p. 200 .
] VII .
" The ' Ginger-beer Plant , ' and the Organisms composing it : a Contribution to the Study of Fermentation-yeasts and Bacteria .
" By H. Marshall Ward , M.A. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , Professor of Botany at the Forestry School , Royal Indian Engineering College , Coopers Hill .
Received January 14 , 1892 .
[ The Paper printed at page 261 , , contains the substance of this Paper in abstract .
] * I have assured myself by experiment that the " well-known diminution in weight of copper in copper sulphate does not take place vacuo , care being taken to remove the dissolved oxygen completely .
Experiments are at present in progress to investigate the electrolysis of copper in vacuo.\#151 ; A. .
S.

