IV .
" Variations in Human Myology observed during the Winter Session of 1866-67 at King 's College , London .
" By JOHN WoOD , F.R.C.S. , Demonstrator of Anatomy ( with a Table and Seven Drawings ) .
Comnnunicated by Dr. Sharpey .
Received May 9 , 1867 .
A largely increased number of abnlornmalities has been the result of a systematic observation of thirty-six subjects during the past winter session .
This has been owing partly to the comprehensioni of one or two irregularities which are commonly referred to in systematic works on anatomy , -such as the coronoid origin of the flexor p)ollicis longus and the insertion of the exte tsor ossis qnetacarpipollicis , partly to the more productive results of a vigilanit superinitendence , an increased efficiency in the dissections .
For much of this the author 's thanks are due to the able help of his assistan-ts , fIessrs .
Perrin and Amsden , and the intelligenit zeal of -Lany of the anatomnical class .
MIainly , nio doubt , the increase is owing to an absolutely larger numiber of abnormualities .
The value of the observations to the author is , of course , much increased by his having personally and thoroughly examlined every specimen before notinag it down , and , if possessing sufficient interest or novelty , sketching it from the subject .
The exact numerical results thus arrived at have , in almost all important particulars , confirmed , but in some mnodified , the conclusions as to frequency and coincidence given in the author 's former papers .
What the author has termed the lines of variation , i. e. the particular muscles which are by far most commnonly affected , are nearly identical with those of last year , as will be found by comparing the coluimns of the appended Table with those of the former .
Only a few different will be found in the columiins occupied by the sundry specimens .
Out of the total number of 295 abniormalities of muscles in 34 subjects showing abnormalities ( as compared with 132 in 32 subjects of last year ) , we have in the head and nec/ k 11 inuscles affected with varieties , as compared with 10 of last year .
In the arm we have 30 linies of muscular variation1 as compared with 26 ; while in the lcq we have 20 as compared with 14 in last year 's subjects .
The increase will be seen to be disproportionately greater in the leg .
In this part also is the absolute iluinber of the specimenis increased ; for while those in the bead and neck proper ( actin-g only on the parts or bones of the head , neckc , and spine ) are 15 as compared with 10 , and those of the arm 157 as compared with 83 , those of the leg are increased to 106 as compared with 39 .
This raises the proportion of abnormalities in the leg to two-thirds of those in the armns , as compared with rather less than one-half lound last year .
This seemiis to have some significance in beinag coinicident with an inierease in the numiber of female subjects to 12 , as colmipared with 4 in last year 's list .
The author has remarked in former papers upon the apparent greater frequency of one variety in the foot , viz. " the abductor ossis metatarsi quinti " in the female subject .
This increase is clearly maintained in the results of the present investigation , and apparently extends to some other muscles also .
To economize time , space .
and the difficulties of tabulation , the explanations necessary to understand the adjoined Table are taken , as before , in the order of the columns therein given The first three are appropriated to the muscular varieties of the Head and Neck , numbering 31 instances , viz. 24 in the 22 males , and 7 in the 12 females , affecting 15 different muscles .
Of these , the cleido-occipital , trapezius , occipito-scapular , and levator anguli scapulae , amounting to 16 instances , are to be considered as belonging quite as much to the upper extrernity .
This leaves 15 specimens affecting 11 muscles of the head and neck exclusively .
1 .
Cleido-occipital.-By this name is signified a muscle usually about three-quarters of an inch wide , which , arising from the border of the clavicle outside the cleido-mastoid portion of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus , is placed parallel to the posterior border of the latter , and separated from it by a more or less wide areolar interval .
It is distinguished from the cleido-mastoid proper by its insertion into the superior curved lilne of the occipital bone on the same plane as the fibres of the sternomastoid .
It joins close up to the trapezius , with which its upper fibres are sometimes united .
The true cleido-mastoid , on the other hand , is inserted deeper than the fibres of the sterno-mastoid into the mastoid portion of the temporal bone .
It has been recognized as an occasional accessory portion of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus , by Meckel , Kelch , Scemmerring , and ilenle .
In animals it forms an important part of the muscle called the Cephalo-humeral .
There were in the 34 subjects examined no less than 12 specimens , all on both sides .
In subject 21 it was very large , broad , and double , with a superficial slip of communication with the cleido-mastoid .
Last session the proportion of specimens was strikingly similar , viz. one-third of the whole number of subjects .
2 .
Omohyoid.-One of the five specimens of abiiormality in this muscle was found in the hinder belly arising from the whole length of the middle third of the clavicle covering the subelavian artery ( No. 17 ) .
In the four others the anterior belly was implicated .
In No. 6 it received a muscular slip from the sterno-hyoid .
In No. 19 it contributed a large s]ip to the same muscle , the latter being double also at its origin , and giving off a muscular bundle to its fellow on the opposite side across the median line .
In No. 20 the anterior belly was double , the posterior portion being attached by fascia to the stylo-hyoid muscle , which did not reach the hyoid bone .
In No. 27 the anterior belly was triple , the middle portion becoming the normal insertion , the front one being inserted inito the cervical fascia , and the hinder one implanted into the upper horn of the thyroid cartilage .
3 .
In one of the subjects ( No. 3 ) the whole of the fibres of origin of the Splenius colli were placed superficial to , instead of deeper than , those of the serratus posticus superior , which thus intervened between those of the lower parts of splenius capitis and colli , the origins of these latter being in other respects normal .
In No. 28 was found a muscle which presenits what is possibly a further development of this displacement .
The muscle was flat and ribandlike , three-quarters of an inch wide , attached above to the transverse process of the atlas behind the levator anguli scapulh , and between it and the splenius colli .
Passing down and iilwards for about 6 inches , it ended at the spinous process of the first dorsal vertebra in a short flat tendon with diverging fibres , which passing beneath the rhomboideus minor , became blended with the deep surface of the upper fibres of origin of the rhomboideus.major half an inch from their attachment .
Some of the fibres were lost on the tendon of the serratus posticus superior also .
A muscle closely similar to this has been described by M11r .
Macalister , of the Royal College of Surgeons of Dublin , in a paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy ' ( April 1866 , vol. ixs .
pl. v. ) under the name of the rlomba-axoid ( by misprint for atloid ) .
In his case the muscle was connected , however , with the rhomboideus minor on its deep surface .
In both instances the splenius colli was coexistent .
A still more striking muscular anomaly , and possibly a further development of the same tendency , was seen in subject 20 ( fig. 1 ) .
A distiiiet riband-shaped muscle , threequarters of an inch wide , a quarter of an inch thick , and 10 inches long ( a ) , was attached to the occipital bone , on a level with the splenius capitis ( b ) , directly under the line of junction of the trapezius ( c ) with the cleido-occipital muscle td ) , which was also present .
Passing down and outwards , superficial to and obliquely across the splenii and covered by the trapezius , it was inserted by short tendinous fibres posterior and superficial to the insertions of the rhomboideus minor ( e ) and major ( f ) muscles into the border of the scapula opposite to the spine and upper part of the infraspinous fossa .
Its fibres of insertion were more or less blended with those of the rhomboids .
The author has named this muscle the Oceipito-scapular .
It may be considered as a slip of connection from the origin of the trapezius ( c ) with the insertion of the levator anguli scapulve ( g ) , in the same manner as the levator clavicuiw1 may be considered as a muscle connecting the origin of the latter muscle with the insertion of the former , thus falling among a numerous class of abnormal human muscles as arranged by the author in his first paper upon the subject .
Its action would evidently be to approximate the scapula to the occiput , assisting the levator anguli ; and to raise the head backwards , assisting the complexxus , spleniius , and trapezius .
The author has not met with any menition of such a muscle in the authorities he has consulted .
He has found the exact similitude of this muscle in the tame Rabbit .
In this Fir .
1 .
animal it is of like shape and proportionate size , and has an origin , insertion , and relations almost exactly the same .
It is attached to the occiput close to the masFig .
2 .
toido-occipital suture , opposite the interval between the cleido-mastoid and trapezius , and is connected below with / I the insertions of the rhomi r ' boids into the scapula .
This curious concurrence is rendered the more re2 v markable by the additional presence in the fore leg of the same animal of a somewhat fan-shaped muscle , connccting the epilrochlea and the olecranon .
As far as the author is aware , this is also unrecorded hitherto .
It is entirely distinct from the inner head of the triceps , from which it is separated by the ulnar nerve .
Across the nerve this small musele is placed superficially .
The same muscle was found by the author in a human male subject ( No. 7 of the Table of last year 's series ) as a distinct muscular slip , arising from the back part of the epitroehlea , bridgiang over the ulnar nerve , and separated by it from the triceps above , and by a distinct areolar interval from the fascial arch which gives origin to the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle below .
A sketch of this m-uscle is given in fig. 2 ( a ) .
It may be called the " Aneoneut &amp; epitrock ?
an In two subjects were found abnormalities of the Trapezius ( Nos. 4 &amp; 13 ) .
The first was one of deficiency , the fibres of origin of the right muscle reaching only as low as the tenth dorsal spinie , and those of the left only to the eighth .
In the other the insertion of the muscle opposite to the scapular spine gave off a strong aponeurotie slip down and outwards to the lower angle of the scapula .
In a very muscular subject with many irregularities ( No. 11 ) was a c-arious arrangement connected with the fibres of the Platysina just below the chin .
A superficial band of muscular fibres , an inch and a half wide , arose on both sides from the mastoid process and parotid fascia , and passed down and forwards , slightly narrowing and thickening , to unite with its fellow just below the point of the chin .
It crossed the insertion of the masseter , the angle of the lower jaw , and the facial artery , superficial to the " risorius Santorini , " which was normal .
Ielch has described this variety ( as seen in two subjects ) by the name of the Jusctlus qnenti accessorius ( Beitriige , xx .
S. 30 ) .
In one subject ( No. 5 ) the anterior belly of the Digastric wras double , the inner abnormal one being attached to the median raphe , but not decussating with its fellow .
In a female ( No. 17 ) was found the curious muscular slip given in ' fig. 3 ( a ) , on the left side only .
It is , called by the author the Myloglossus muscle .
It arose tendinous from the inner border of the angle of the lower jaw , behind and below the internal pterygoid , spreading out down , inwards , and forwards , to be inserted into the fibres of the tongue , between the styloand h ; yo-glossus muscles ( b &amp; e ) , joining especially the latter .
The facial artery passed deeper than the muscle , and the border of the submaxillary glanid overlapped it .
Hienle saw a cylindrical muscle arising from the same place and joining the posterior belly of the digastric ( Muskellehre , S. 112 ) .
This is the nearest approach to the above muscle the author has found mentioned .
The Stylo-pharyngeus was in one subject ( No. 19 ) found doubled on the right side .
In another ( No. 26 ) the Scalenus medius arose by a thick band of fibres covering the intertransversalis from the transverse process of the atlas .
In third ( No. 27 ) the Scalenws anticue received a large slip across the subelavian artery from the medius .
In No. 30 the Levator anguli scapule sent a large slip of its fibres to join the insertion of the scalenus medius .
Fig. 3 .
These interchanges have been frequently observed in these muscles .
In No. 32 was a well-marked specimen of the muscle named by the author in his previous papers the Supra-costal .
It was attached below to the third rib in front of the serratus magnus , and above to the first rib and cervical fascia .
In No. 33 it was a very distinct duplication of the Rectus capitis posticus major , like that described by Albinus and Sandifort , and by Douglas both in Man and the Dog .
Twenty-one columns of the accompanying Table are occupied by the muscles of the upper extremity only .
Twenty-six muscles are concerned .
The instances number 158 , viz. 117 in the 22 males , and 41 in the 12 females .
4 .
Pectoralis major.-The number and kind of abnormalities of this nuscle , as well as of the pectoralis minor , coincide almost exactly , with those of last year in nearly an equal number of subjects .
In one ( No. 5 ) was a detached slip arising separately from the abdominal aponeurosis opposite the seventh costal cartilage , and crossing the axilla to be inserted into the tendon of , and fascia covering , the coraco-brachialis about an inch below the coracoid process .
In another ( No. 6 ) a similar slip arose from the fifth rib connected with the lower fibres of the pectoralis major , and was inserted with the pectoralis minor into the coracoid process joining on to the coraco-brachialis .
In No. 20 a separate slip arose from the abdominal aponeurosis at some distance from the rest of the muscle , and was inserted into the deep surface of its tendon at the upper border , connected with the " frenum suspensorium .
" Such slips of the pectoralis major were noticed lorng ago by Sir Charles Bell ( Anatomy , p. 302 , 1829 ) .
In No 32 a baind of fibres , about an inch broad , detached them , iselves from the lower border of the pectoralis major , and , curving gradually away from the rest down the arm , were inserted into a long roundish tendon about three-eighths of an inch wide , which crossed the brachial vessels and nerves obliquely down and inwards , and joined the internal brachial ligament about 2 inbches above the inner condyle .
Altogether this was a fair specimene of the Choondro-epitrochlear muscle described and figured by the author in former papers as presenting a close resemblance to the musele so called in the Mxonkeys .
It has been described also by Szemmerring , Caldani , Theile , Gruber , Cruveilhier , Henle , Hallett , Macwhinnie , and Macalister .
In another subject ( No. 33 ) the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major were uninterruptedly continuous with those of the deltoid , the cephalic vein passing through a foramen low down .
Otto seems to have met with this peculiarity , which he describes as absence of the clavicular fibres of the deltoid ( Path .
Anatom .
1830 , S. 249 ) .
5 .
Pectoralis minor.-Four subjects were found ( Nos. 6 , 8 , 10 , &amp; 13 ) to present an insertion of this muscle into the greater tuberosity of the humerus by a flat tendon usually uniting with that of the supra-spinatus , but in one case separately inserted , and grooving the upper surface of the coracoid process , where it was provided with a bursa .
This arrangement was described in the author 's last paper as resembling the arrangement in the Mamnmalia .
It has been nloticed by Meckel , ilarrison ( Dissector , ie p. 79 ) , by Benson ( Cyel .
Anat .
&amp; Pliys .
i. p. 359 ) , and by Macalister ( Journ. Anlat .
&amp; Phys. No. ii .
May 1867 , p. 317 ) .
In another ( No. 9 ) the upper fibres of the left pectoralis minor were inserted into a strong costo-coracoid membrane .
Those on the right side had become developed into a separate slip of muscle nearly an inch wide , which was inserted into the lower border of the clavicle itself .
This slip was connected below with the second rib , constituting an approach towards the formation of a Sterno-clavicular muscle , as described in the author 's last paper .
6 .
Latissimus dorsi.-Five subjects were affected with varieties in the insertion of this muscle .
In two females ( Nos. 17 &amp; 24 ) the abnormality assunmed the more common form of " .Achselbogen , " viz. a short slip across the vessels and nerves to the insertion of the pectoralis major .
In a male subject ( No. 8 ) the slip on the right side was connected in a pecuLliar way with the pectoralis minor , but , on the left , in the common form with the pectoralis major .
The former consisted of a flat , vertically placed , muscular slip 1 inch broad , attached below to the upper edge of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi , and above to the lower border of the pectoralis minor about an inch from the coracoid process , covering partly theaxillary vessels and nerves .
In Nos. 20 &amp; 28 the tendon of the latissimus gave attachment to a strong , thick muscular slip , which , passing separately down the upper fourth of the arm , finally joined to long head of the triceps , presentinag the most marked approximation ( especially in the ig last subject ) to the Dorso-epitrochlear .
muscle in the Orang and other Simiadawhich the author has hitherto found in the human subject .
Both the subjects , were males , presenting respectively 16 V and 11 muscular variations .
7 .
Biceps.-Five variations were presented by the originzs of this muscle .
Two , a one male and one female ( Nos. 7 &amp; 24 ) , showed on the left side the more common third head , arising from the humerus between the coraco-brachialis and brachialis , anticus .
This was also present in the right arm of another male ( No. 27 ) .
On the right arm of .
No. 7 , and the left of No. 27 , the third head arose as a detached slip from the coracoid process , and , in one , from the capsular ligament also , forming a fusiform belly which joined the tendon of insertion separately at the part which gives off the semilunar fascia .
In two others , both males ( Nos. 8 &amp; 13 ) , the varieties were found connected with the insertions of the muscle .
In the first it was found in the left arm only , and presented a most complicated arrangement ( fig. 4 ) .
The origin of the muscle was normal .
Just below the junction of the two heads , about the middle of the upper arm , the muscle divided into three fusiform bellies .
The outer , which is largest ( a ) , presents the normal insertions into the radius and semilunar -fascia ( cut at b ) .
The middle one ( c ) , the smallest , ends in a small rounded tendon , which , passing obliquely down and inwards between the semilunar fascia and the radial insertion , becomes lost on the supinator fascia and the burga of the radial tuberosity ( d ) .
The inner division ( e ) , constituting the larger of the abnormal bellies , ends in a strong tendon which , at the elbow , divides into three slips , the outer joining the eoronoid insertioni of the brac1ialis anticus at its inner border ( g ) ; the mniddle once is implanted upon the deep or coronoid originof the _pronator radii teres ( f ) , and the inner , connected under the superficial miuseles with the coronoid origin of the flexor diqitorum sublimis .
We have thus in this complicated arrangement four insertionis in additioni to the usual two .
These are , moreover , connected with four other nluscles , viz , the brachialis anticus , the pronator radii teres , the flexor sublimnis digitorum , and the supinator brevis .
In alnother subject also ( No. 13 ) , the biceps sent a slip to join the coronoid origin of the pronator radii teres .
It was detached from the middle of the inner border of the muscle , as a band of muscular fibres provided with a separate tendon .
In the right arm this joined with the semilunarfascia , and on the left with the pronator .
S. Coraco-brachialis .
In four instances this m-nusele presented a complete interva , l between its lower fibres implanted inlto the initernal internuscular septum and brachial ligament , and its upper fibres , inserted into the humierus .
In on-e ( No. 27 ) its highest fibres were inserted into a fibrouis band , constituting an upward prolongation of the internal brachial ligament across the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major , as described by iFenile .
In all , the inusculo-cutaneous nerve passed between the twro portionis .
In No. 30 the muscle was inserted inito the intermuscular septumi at quite the lower third of the arm .
9 .
Braclialis anticus .
In two subjects a slip of the o-uter fibres of this muscle was continued into those of the su6pinator longis .
In one right arnm ( No. 26 ) it sent off over the brachial vessels and median nerve a slip of fascia to join the semilunar .
In onie ( No. 31 ) it was deeply divided down the middle , the outer part seniding some fibres into the smtpinator longus , and others into the bicipitcdl semiilunar fascia .
The first-mentioned peculiarity has beeii before described by the author , and the last has been noticed by Ilildebrandt , Scenmmerring , Theile , and TVlieckel , and was compared by the last-nanaed am4tomist to the arrangement in Birds .
10 .
Flexor subtlimis digitorum v. perforatus .
Out of nine instances of irregularities in this muscle two were specimens of deficiency .
In one ( No. 5 ) the radial origill was enitirely absent , in another ( No. 18 ) the tendoln to the little finger was wanting .
This has been noticed by Meekel , Theile , and Henle .
In No. 9 , a muscular slip from the miiiddle of the _pronator radii teres joined the radial fibres of the sublimis .
This has been noticed by Otto .
In four subjects ( Nos. 6 , 8 , 21 , &amp; 31 ) the origini of the flexor sublimis was variously differentiated .
In the right arm of No. 6 , a separate muscle arising from the inn-er border of the coronoid process gave off the perforatus tenidon of the index .
A separate coronoid or middle head is described iu maLny text-books as a normal arrangemenit for the flexor sublimis digitorzun .
In almost every subject , however , the author has found that the fibres composing the superficial or condyloid head are conitinued untinterruptedly along the internal lateral ligament to the inniier margin of the coronoid process , which they occupy along nearly its whole length , and are frequently connected there with the coronoid tendon of the pronator radii teres .
This part usually gives rise to the indicial tendon of the muscle .
In the subject above imentioned it constituted a separate muscle .
In addition to this , the most commoni coronoid attachment , however , there sometimes exists a strong flat tendon arising from the outer and lower border of the coronoid process and joining , not the conidyloid , but the radial origin of the muscle .
In the sketches of the muscular anatomy of the limilbs of an adult feinale Orauig-utan dissected by the author , he finds that in this animal this flat coronoid tendon gives attachment not only to some of the fibres of the radial origin of the sublimis , but also to theJlexor carpi radialis , which arises both from it and from the obliquie line and outer border of the radius by a common aponeurosis with the sublimis .
This arrangement has been observed by Mr. 3Mfacalister in the human arm ( op .
cit. p. 12 ) .
In the Orang , the four tendolns of the flexor sublimis are attached to separate muscles , the areolar intervals between which aIte very readily separable .
That to the index lies deepest , and arises from the upper coronoid origini and lateral ligamenit .
Those to the second and third fingers both arise from the oblique line and border of the radius , the latter being superficial and attached also to the condyle of the humerus , while the former is connected chiefly with the lower coronoid tendon , but having a separate slip also from the internial lateral liga , meant ; while the muscle to the little finger arises superficially from the coindyle of the humerus .
In one of the above-mentioned varieties of the flexor sublimis ( No. 8 ) was a separate fusiform muscle to the little finger , arising from a tendinous intersection springing from the condyle of the humerus .
In another ( No. 21 ) the tendons of the left index and little fingers both were connected with a digastric muscle with a tendinous intersection in the middle , arising from the condyle , internal lateral ligament and upper coronoid origin .
This has been observed by Macalister in a femnale subject , with 1many other irregularities .
Such a digastric portion has been recorded also by lfeekel ( Mu8kellehre , S. 536 ) .
The same author describes a similar iintersection in the Loris ( Anat .
Comp. 6 .
p. 340 ) .
In No. 31 all the tendons were provided with separate muscles , the first arising with a digastric formation from the condyle , internal lateral ligament and coronoid process ; the second from the radius and lower coronoid tendon ; the third from the condyle and internal lateral ligament ; and the fourth from the condyle only .
In No. 10 was a tendinous slip from the superficial surface of the sublimis to the annular liganent , the palmaris longus being niormal .
11 .
Flexor di9itorumn profunclus v. perforans .
In four subjects ( Nos. 3 , 9 , 26 , &amp; 34 ) some of the iudicial fibres of this muscle arose from the inner part of the front surface of the radius .
In one ( No. 9 ) these were inserted into the side of the long tendon of a fusiform muscle , which ( arising with the coronoid origin of the flexor sublimis in connection with a similar one passing to the flexor longus pollicis ) passed under the annular ligament and divided into two , one to join the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis , and the other ( larger ) that of the index perforans .
This arrangement , somewhat dissimilar to those formerly described by authors , is yet formed on the same plan or type of the connection betweeni the flexors of the thumb and index and the flexor subliinis .
It forms a coalescence of the " Accessorius ad flexorem pollicis longum , " with the " A ccessorius ad flexorein digitorumn profundunm1 " of G-antzer .
In No. 26 one half of the muscular fibres of the flexor longitspollicis were implanted upon the tendon of the index perfobrans .
In the left arm of No. 6 was found a detached muscular slip from the outer part of the profttndus , ending in a tendon which joined that of the sublimnis perforatus of the index in the palm .
It was in the right arm of the same subject that the detached perforatus muscle of the index before described was found .
In three ( Nos. 10 , 28 , &amp; 33 ) were found detached nnusculo-tendinous slips of the profundus in the fore arm of a like type .
In No. 10 it was single , and gave part origin to the fourth lumbricalis .
In No. 28 it was lost on the synovial sheath of the tendons in the palm , and in No. 33 it was connected both with this and with the first ltlumbricalis .
This has been noticed by Sceinmerring , Theile , and ilenle .
In six subjects were found a coronoid origin of the flexor pr7ofunclus , arising in common with the fibres of the flexor subliinis as a fusiform tapering muscle ending in a rounded tendon .
In fouLr ( Nos. 7 , 9 , 13 , &amp; 20 ) this tendon joined the perforating tendon of the index finiger ; in one ( No. 25 ) that of the middle finger : and in another ( No. 31 ) those of the ringand little fingers .
This muscle is mentioned by Meckel , Scenimerring , Theile , Henle , and by Cowper and Macwhinnie .
It was named by Gantzer the " Musculus accessorius ad flexorem profuLndum digitorumi .
" In No. 9 , as before described , it received muscular fibres also from the radius .
12 .
Flexor pollicis longus.-Ill twelve subjects this muscle also derived a separate fusiform mLisculo-tendinous origin from the coronoid process of the ulna .
This has been noticed by Albinus , Otto , Scemmerrin-g , and _Meckel , and was called by Gantzer the " Accessorius ad fiexorem pollicis longum .
" It is usually alluded to by text-book writers as an occasional origin , described by sonie from the outer , and by others from the inner side of the coronoid process .
The proportion of its occurrence in thirty-six subjects is one-third .
In only three was the origin at all separate from the coronoid fibres of the sublimis .
It usually assumes the form of a tapering muscle , detaching itself from the indicial fibres of the sublimis , often in connection with the similar contribution to the flexor profundus , and elnding in a tendon more or less long , which joins that of the flexor pollicis longus .
In three instances the junction took place below the middle of the arm .
In a former paper the author described a , remarkable development and amalgamnation of these accessory origins of the flexor longus pollicis and profundus digitoruin in a Negro , resulting in a complete set of tendons to each of the fingers placed inltermediate to those of the subliinis and profundus .
In the Dog , the coronoid origins constitute the chief bulk of the united flexors .
In the Cat , Hedgehog , G-uinea-pig , Rabbit , and many other animals they form a great part of them .
In No. 7 was a muscular , and in Nos. 8 , 20 , &amp; 33 a tendinous connection of the tendons of the Flexor longus pollicis and Index perforans , constituting a more decided tendency to the complete union of these muscles found in the lower animals than even in the instances above-mentioned of the radial origin of the flexor profundus .
This connection exists more or less completely in all theApes and IMionkeys , reaching its most peculiar development by the entire substitution of the flexor longus pollicis by a separated and entire flexor tndicis in the Orang-utan .
It is evidently the homologous representative of the tendon of connection between the flexor lon qus hallucis andflexor longus digitorum in the foot .
13 .
L]umbricales .
In two subjects ( Nos. 3 &amp; 5 ) the fourth lumbricalis on the right side was inserted inito the extensor apoiieurosis on the ulnar side of the ring-finger ( which was thus provided with two , acting in different directionis ) , instead of the little finger , which was destitute. .
In Nos. 11 &amp; 34 , in the right hand , and in No. 32 in both hands , the third lumbricalis was bifurcated , one being inserted into the ulnar side of the middle digit ( which was thus provided with one on each side ) , while the other was inserted into the usual place .
In the left hand of No. 33 both the third and fourth lumbricalis were bifurcated , the middle and ring-fingers both having a lumbricalis on each side .
These abnormalities have been described by Meckel , Theile , and Froment .
According to the last-named author , the lumbricales are irregular in nearly half the number of subjects , the third being the most frequently bifurcated , and next , the fourth .
In half , the author has found the irregularities on both sides ; when single , he has found the right and left to be in about equal proportions irregular .
14 .
Flexor carpi radialis brevis v. profundus .
In only two subjects has the author found this year the muscle described by him in previous papers under this name .
Both were imperfect specimens , arising in a penniforni way from the radius outside the flexor longus pollicis , and inserted by a rounded tendon , which in one subject ( No. 32 ) was as large as that of the flexor pollicis itself , into that deep portion of the annular liga meant which is attached to the trapezoid and base of the miiddle metacarpal bone , secluLding the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis tendon .
In one ( No. 20 ) the palmaris longus was normal .
In the other it was represented by a small slip from the superficial surface of the flexor carpi 'radialis .
AMr .
Macalister of Dublin has communicated to the author the description of a complete specimen of this muscle inserted into the base of the -idle metacarpcal bone .
It existed in the right arm only , and had its origin from the radius iinLternal , instead of external , to the flexor pollicis longus .
I-e has also met with an instance of an incomplete muscle of this kiind inserted into the deep portion of the annular ligament- , also on the right arm .
Apalmaris logzits was present in one of these cases , but not in the other .
It is somewhat remalkable that in these two cases , as in all the eight cases observed by the author , this muscle has been found in the right arm only .
It offers the best homologue in the arm to the tibialis postiens in the leg .
15 .
JPalmaris lotgus.-Iu three subjects ( Nos. 5 , 24 , &amp; 32 ) the normal palmaris was absent in both arms .
It was also wanting in the right arm of No. 28 , and in the left of No. 27 .
In three ( 5 , 27 , &amp; 32 ) there was a feeble slip of tendon from the superficial muscular fibres of the flexor carpi radialis to the superficial surface of the middle portion of the palmar fascia , which seemed to supply its place .
This relation between the two muscles is interesting in connection with the occurrence of a flexor carpi radialis brevis in one of these subjects ( 32 ) .
In the left arm of one subject ( No. 28 ) both the tendon and muscular portions of the palmaris were doubled , the supernumerary one being smaller and placed internal and posterior to the other , and arising with the condyloid portion of the sublimis .
Its tendon was spread out and lost on the fascia at the wrist , a little above the annular ligament .
In the right arm of ainother ( No. 34 ) the tendon of an otherwise normal palmaris was doubled , both portions being inserted into the annular ligament and palmar fascia .
In a third ( No. 8 , the subject of fig. 4 ) the belly of this muscle was inverted ( A ) and placed just above the wrist .
16 .
Extensores carpi radiales .
In nlo less than fifteen subjects these muscles presented the intervening muscle and tendon , named by the author the extensor crp i radialis internzedius .
In six this muscle arose fleshy with the longior , and was inserted by a long tendon with , but distinct from , the brevior into the base of the third metacarpal boneIn four it arose with the belly of the brevior , and its tendon was distinctly inserted with that of the longior into the secon-d metacarpal .
In one subject it was arranged in the first way on the left arm , and in the second on the right ; while in the remiiainling four it was double , e. g. there were two additional muscular bellies intervening between the longior and brevior , with long tendons crossing in exchange in opposite directions .
In onie , these tendons were united and more or less blended as they crossed each other .
Such an arrangement has been recorded by M-lacalister ( op .
cit. p. 13 ) .
In another ( No. 26 ) the left arin was provided with a single-bellied intermeditus with two tenidonls , one going to that of the longior , and the other to the insertion of the brevior .
In another ( No. 14 ) the lon qior was , in addition , provided with two tendons by division .
In two subjects ( Nos. 30 &amp; 31 ) the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis brevior was inserted into the inner corner of the base of the second metacarpal bone as well as into the third .
This was the case also in two of those which were provided with an extensor intermedius ( Nos. 29 &amp; 32 ) .
It is interesting as showing how an intermediate tendon and muscle may be formed by simple fission of the brevior .
17 .
Extensor carpi ulnlaris .
In two subjects ( Nos. 7 &amp; 21 ) this muscle gave off a slip of its lower tendon to the extensor aponeurosis of the little finger .
In one ( No. Ii ) the abductor minimi digiti arose partly from the tendoni , and was further provided with two other di .
stinct origins-one from the pisiform bone , and the other from the upper border of the posterior annular ligament , evincing a tendency to the high origin described and figured in the author 's former papers , and previously recorded by Gunther , Mild , and Soemmmerring .
18 .
Supinator longus .
In three out of the four varieties found in this muscle , the tendon of insertion was double .
In one ( No 8 , fig. 4 , i ) the lower insertion was the larger and normal one at the base of the radial styloid process , while the upper one was attached to the outer border of the radius three inches above , the radial nerve passing between them to the back of the band .
In No. 34 the same arrangement was present in botb arms .
In another ( No. 21 ) the radial nerve passed higher than both tendons .
In one subject ( No. 28 ) the tendon was divided into three portions , the lowest and largest being inserted inlto the usual place , the upper one near the middle of the radius , and the intermediate one opposite the upper border of the pronator quadratus .
The radial nerve passed between the two latter .
19 .
Extenisor commrnis digitorum .
In two subjects ( Nos. 8 &amp; 28 ) the tendons of this muscle on the back of the hand were doubled ; in the first for each digit , and in the last for the middle and ringfingers only .
In one ( No. 29 ) the tendon of the index only was doubled , one being connected by a lateral slip with that of the middle finger , as the latter was to that of the ring-finger , and this , -with that of the little finger .
It so resulted that all the tendons were thus joined together , except one of the two tendons of the index .
The indicator was normal , butt the extensor mininii digiti gave a tendon to the ringfinger .
By means of these special tendons , the individual play of each finger was kept free .
In one subject ( No. 21 ) there was found , in the left hand , a single fleshy slip of the muscle first described by the author as the E.Wtensor brevis digitorum mani 's , arising from the dorsal surface of the os magnum and unciforme , and passing to the extensor aponeurosis on the radial side of the micldle digit .
In another ( No. 23 ) there were found , in both hands , two slips passing from the same bones and from the posterior carpal ligament , to the ulnar side of the middle and ringfingers , joining the extensor aponeurosis by separate , slender , flat tendons .
20 .
Extensor minimni digiti .
In nearly half the number of subjects was the tendon of this muscle doubled ( fig. 5 , e ) .
In one ( No. 3 ) there were , further , two distinct muscular bellies .
In two subjects ( Nos. 29 &amp; 34 ) the additional tendon was inserted with the common extensor tendon into the ring-finger , as in the Orang , Apes , Monkeys , Rabbit , :Hedgehog , &amp;c. In the Cat and Dog the third and second digits also are supplied by it .
21 .
Extensor indicis and -Extensor mnedii digiti .
In two subjects ( Nos. 8 &amp; 27 ) the indicator was provided with a double tendoni , showing the first tendency to the formation of a special extensor of the middle finger , such as that found as a distinct muscle in the remarkable arrangement seen iu fig. 5 ( a ) .
Both these are constant muscles in the Apes and Monkeys .
22 .
Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis.-An increase in the number of tendons of this muscle was seen in 16 subjects out of 36 , i. e. , nearly half .
In four the tendon was simply doubled , both being inserted into the base of the first metacarpalbone .
In four others one of the two tendonis was inserted into the trapezium .
In one ( No. 25 ) the tendon was triple , two being inserted into the metacarpal , and one into the trapeziuim .
In seven instances the tendon sent off a slip which gave part origin to the fibres of the abductor pollicis brevis .
These sometimnes formed a separate muscle .
In four of these there were two tendons only , one inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone , and the other going to the abductor .
In two ( Nos. 20 &amp; 31 ) there were three tendons , one to the metacarpal bone , another to the trapezium'i , and the third to the abductor pollicis .
Such an arrangement has been recorded by Mfacalister ( op .
cit. p. 13 ) .
In one ( No. 11 ) there were no less than four tendons , three of which were inserted into the middle of the shaft and base of the metacarpal bone , and one went to the abductor .
In the last subject the extensor primi internodii pollicis was entirely absent , iniereasing the similarity in the arralngement of these muscles to that found in the Chimpanzee and Orang .
In two other subjects ( Nos. 6 &amp; 21 ) the muscular part of the extenisor primi was entirely blended with that of the extenlsor ossis metacarpi , though the tendon was separate and its insertion distinct , into the base of the first phalalnx of the thumb .
23 .
Interossei mcandis.-Three specimens of the " Palmar interosseus of the thumb " of Henle were found .
In two subjects ( Nos. 4 &amp; 20 ) the first interosseous space was occupied by two muscles , one , the " Abductor indicis " of Albinus and the older anatomists , and the other the " Interosseus prior indicis " of that author ( the " Extenisor tertii internlodii indicis " of Douglas ( Myograph .
Comp. p. 181 ) .
24 .
Among the miiscellalneous specinmens in the upper extremity were found , in a female subject ( No. 3 ) , the muscle described by the author as the Extensor pollicis et indicis ( fig. 5 , b ) .
Arising by a distinct penniform belly from the hinder surface of the ulna , interosseous ligaiiment and intermuscular septa between the extensor secundi interniodii pollicis Fig. 5 .
and the extensor indicis , it ended in a strong rounded tendon , which , passing under those of the extensor communis , parallel with and outside those of the indicator and extensor medii digiti , divided in the groove of the annular ligament into two tendons .
The outer of these joined that of the extensor secundi on the middle of the first phalanx of the thumb , to be inserted with it into the extreme phalanx , and the inner , smaller , was inserted separately into the base of thefirst phalanx of the index , outside of , and distinct fromii , the tendons of the comimon extensor and indicator proper .
The author has found the same arrangement in the Vampire Bat , Dog , Cat , Hedgehog , and Rabbit .
Meckel found it ir the Bear , Coati , and Beaver .
In its insertion , this specimen difFers from those formerly described by the author by joining the tendon of the extensor secmsndi internodii pollicis .
In the others it joined or substituted thatfof the extensor primi internodii which was present and normal in the subject of the woodcut ( fig. 5 ) .
This arm presents an extraordinary instance of multiplication of these special extensor muscles of the hand .
In a specimen of tne above muscle described by Macalister ( p. 4 ) , the indicial tendon joined that of the indicator , and was inserted into the second and third phalanges of the index .
In one subject ( No. 11 ) the Extensor primi internodii pollicis was altogether wanting on both sides .
A small tendinous looking ligament was attached to the styloid process of the radius and passed to the base of the first phalanx of the thumib , which seemed to represent the lower part of its tendon on both sides .
It indicated an arrest of development in the muscular germ above , and was unattended by any evidence of diseased action , or any peculiarity in the muscular part of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis , usually so closely connected with this muscle .
The occasional total absence of this muscle was noticedby 'Scmmerring and Mfeckel .
In one subject ( No. 21 ) the extensor primi internodii pollicis was entirely blenided at its muscular portion with the extensor ossis metacarpi , its tendon becoming free at the styloid process of the radius .
This has been observed by Theile .
In two subjects ( Nos. 20 &amp; 34 ) the tendon of the same muscle sent a large portion ( in the last the chief portion ) of its fibres to join that of the extensor secuizcni at the base of the unigual phalanix .
Scemmerring has observed this peculiarity .
Macalister found once in about nine subjects an opposite arrangement to this , viz. , the tendoni of the extensor secundi giving a slip to the base of the first phalanx .
This has beeni also seen by the author in cases of absence of the extensor primi internodii .
In one female subject ( No. 17 ) was found a large slip of the spinial fibres of the Infraspinatus passing superficially to the rest of the muscle and to the teres minor , to be inserted into the lowest part of the hinder border of the greater tuberosity .
In a male subject ( No. 14 ) was found , in the right arm , a fine specimen of the detached portion of the subscapularis , which has been described by Professor Haughton under the namne of Infratspinatus secunzdus , and by Macalister under that of Subscapulo-humeral or capsular .
It was quite detached from the subscapularis , arising from the border of the scapular as a flat muscular band , 1 inch wide , crossed the long head of the triceps , and becamne inserted inlto the neck of the humerus at the same place as the capsuilar ligament , overlapped a little by the .
tenidon of the latissiinu cd orsi .
This ninuscle h as beenl found by Haughton in the ilfaccucts veimestrhints and other Quadrumiana , and by Mlacalister in the IHorse , Seal , and other Mammalia .
Iln No. 24 was found a L'ransversus Vnlanls , enltirely separate from the bulk of the fibres of the abduietor pollicis , and arisinlOg chiefly froom the nieck of the third mnetaLcarpal bonle and transverse ligament .
, The remaining teni columins in the Table are occupied by abnormalities of the lower extremnity , affecting 23 muscles , and comprising 106 inistan-ces , viz. 74 in the 22 males , and 32 in the 12 females .
25 .
Peroneus tertuius.-This musele presented varieties in no less than 14 subjects .
In no less than five it was absent ; in three , on botl sides , viz. two males ( Nos. 24 &amp; 28 ) and onie female ( No. 16 ) .
In two other females ( Nos. 10 &amp; 2 ?
1 ) it was totally absent on one side only , in one in the right , and in the other in the left leg , the representative in the other leg being in each case so small as to be of little account .
In onie , inideed , it was a miiere , slender banid of fibrous tissue attached to the lower fibres of the exi-ensor cominiunis digitoruin .
It may be said , them , that in one-fourth of the 12 femiiale sLubjects it was waniting , and in two only out of the 22 males .
In two miiales ( Nos. 20 &amp; 27 ) its tendon was doubled .
In two other males ( Nos. 30 &amp; 32 ) its tendon was inserted inito the base of the fourth as well as the fifth metatarsal bone .
In four ( Nos. 3 , 8 , 11 , &amp; 29 ) it sent forward a slip to join the exten-sor aponeurosis of the little too , in the way of the p)eroneuts quinti from the brevis .
In all these four , except on the right leg of No. 8 , the true perones quinti from the brevis was coexistent .
Both these varieties have beeni well known to anatomiists sinice _Meckel .
In one ( No. 7 ) the slip was lost on the fascia covering the last dorsal interossous , and did not reach the toe .
26 .
Peroneus quinti.-Iu 12 subjects ( or onie-third of the whole ) w as founid a representative tendon of this animal mLuscle more or less complete , connected with the tendon of the per onenes brevis , and leaving it just below the nialleolus .
In three ( Nos. 2 , 16 , &amp; 26 ) the slip was attached to the front enid of the fifth meltatarsal bone , and more or less blended with the dorsal injterosseous fascia-an arrangement which was naoticed by Meckel in sone suibjects uiprovided with a peronicus tertius .
In1 all the nine other instaniees the tendon was more fully developedl , and joined in forming the extenisor cponeurosis of the little toe .
In onie subject only ( No. 17 ) was it confilned to onae side .
Three were found in the 12 femiiale subjects , and ninie in the 22 males , showing a larger proportion in the latter .
27 .
Extensor p1rim ?
i iternocdii 11h(7lucis 7oa ?
nus .
In nio less than 19 subjects , or more than onie hallf , was found , in both legs , a long tendon attached to the inner part of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe distiinct from that of the extensor brevis digitorumc .
In three suabjects ( Nos. 9 , 17 , &amp; 31 ) this tendon was provided with a well-developed Uanld distinct peinniform miiuscular belly , arisigo , from the fibula , and inter osseous ligament , and separatled by any areolar interval from that of the extensor longitvs or proprius Aalcinoj .
Ina male subject ( No. 9 ) this nusele lay t first outside the extensor proprius , and was provided wAitll two tendons , the outer one joining the greet-toe tendon of the exteisor brevis , and the innler , crossing under that of the extensor propritus , wasinserted inito the nusual place on the inner border of the base of the _rst phalanx .
In a felale ( No. 17 ) the muscle lay to the ininer side of the extensor proprius , its tendon subdividing in the same way , and going to the same destiniationis as the last speceilme , but the oider one erossing in this case under the extenisor proprim 's .
In another femuale ( No. 31 ) the right leg was provided with-l a distinct inuscle of this kiid , with a single tendon joining that of the e xtensor brevis .
In the left leg it was represented only by a slip of ten1don ] given from that of the extentsor proprints at the anLkle , and lyilg i-nside it along the foot to the first phalanx , where it was in-serted in the usual way .
In the 1tothe7r subjects , the latter was the arrangem ent in both legs , the -muscular fibres , together with the upper part of the tenidon , being -united more or less with those of the ext-en2sor propriz-S .
leckel remarks that the above abnormality is h-onmologouts to the ex'tensor primni intternodii pJollicis in the hand .
It is also m-ienitioned by Smennmerring , Theile , and TIn a miiale suljeet ( 1No .
23 ) this tendoni to the base of the first phalanx of the lalluax was given off from the outter side of that of the tibialis anticus .
This anomialy h-ad beeni previously fouled by the autbhor in two subjects ( also males ) , which were described and fignrvcld in his first paper oin the snbj et .
IL .
is not awa0e that .
it 1i s beenl observod by any otlier anatomist .
it is not to be confo , unded with the commnion insertiona of a slip of tlo tflbialis tenlidon into the base of thze first gnzetiatcrsai .
bone .
Durino the Iatst 8ess-ion a fl.o cx-L imple of this formation was secroL in , a stillbone male foetus , whiheli was not foun-id to present any other muscular varmocr .
ILn aniother adulit male ( INo .
33 ) it ' was found in thie right lco-with the addit'ion of a seComnd slip of teondon from the exu1'enso ) proprius ; while in time leffleg , two slips came from that of the latter muiscle , the outer joining the tendo of the extensor breris cdiqitowmzcn , and thie inniier iniserted sepatrately illuo the base of the first plhalanx of the hiallux , as before secin in those ( Nos. 9 &amp; 17 ) with complete miiuseular bellies .
The forward prolongation from"I the ten-don of the tibialis entics to the hallux presents a eirious parallel on the inside to that of the quinti from the3 peroneuts brevis on the outside of the foot .
A bleniding of the tibialis anticus with the long extensor of the great toe is said by tIeckel to be found in the Poraupin6 .
Six out of the ninieteensubjects possessing a separate t-lendon to the base of the hallux were females ( one half of the whole number of subjects of this sex ) .
These comprised two ouLt of the three complete specimenis .
28 .
Extensor lon qus dicitorugn peclis.-Ini one subject ( No. 6 ) the innerinost tendoni of this muscle detached a separate slip to be inserted inito the has of the first phalanx of the second toe , producing an exact analogy to the arrangement in the great toe last described , and which also coexisted in the same subject .
It is mentioned by leckel as homolog-ous to the indicaltor in manr , and as a-lso found in the Pig and Porcupine ( Anat .
Comp. vi .
pp. 429 &amp; 432 ) .
In aniother ( No. 9 ) a coinnecting slip from the iinnermost tendon of the long commoni extenisor joined at the base of the netatarsals with that of the extensor , proprius hallucis .
A similar arrangem.ent is said by T eckel to be found in the Kangaroo and in the Rumninants .
In one ( No. 11 ) the tenidonis of the seconid , third , and fourth toes arose by a separatoe , muscular belly fromll the outer tuberosity of the tibia and head Ifibulla ; that to the fifth toe coming from the fibres of the peronetus ter titus .
This i- , founid , accordihmg to Meckel , in the Hyxnla , Bear , and other Carnivora , and also in the Kangaroo and some Rodenlts .
In one subject ( No. 19 ) two small slips of tendol , from those of the two outerimost toes , were inserted into the shafts of the fourth and fifth metatarscds respectively .
Tnis is similar to the arrangemiient found in the Sloths and Reptiles .
In No. 23 there was a reduplication of the extensor tendoni of the little toe .
In No. 26 the outermost tendon of the extensor lon_gus was connected with that of the ex tensor hrevis by a long slip arising fromii the former above the annuLlar ligament , and joining the latter on the dorsum of the foot .
In two ( Nos. 32 &amp; 33 ) the tendolls of the long extenisor were cachi provided with a separate muscular belly .
In the forilier there was also a double tendon to the secoind toe .
29 .
Extensor lrevis digitorum pecis .
In onie subject ( No. 9 ) a tendillOUs slip from the second tenfldon of this muscle joinied that of therfirst clorsal iiiterosseus ; amId anlother from the third ten-don , that of the re8Co1cl dorsal interossens .
In No. ll this connection existed with the Jest dorsal interosseus only .
This evidence of connection between thiese muscles is interesting , in relationi to the occasional formation of any extensor lrevis digitori-imv in the hand , which the author has in former papers explained by posterion displacement and separation of the superulcial fibres of the dorsal interossei .
In two ( Nos. 23 &amp; 26 ) the tendons to the seconed toe were doubled .
210 .
tlexor longu s diqitoruvi and Elex or acecssoriuts .
In one subject ( a , female ) the first tendon of the formier mLiuscle was entirely wanthig , its place being supplied to the second toe by one from the lIexor hallucis , approaching the formation in somiie of the Apes .
In No. 14 was found a fully developed seciinen of the flexor loncguis accessorius , arising from the lower thiird of the hiniider surface of the 2.x fibulla and the adjacent aponienrosis , as a distiniet muscle ending in a stout tendoni , which passed under the annular ligamuenit outside the vessels , and was joinied by the muscular fiblres of the " massa carnea Sylvii , " and by the tendons of the perforans in the middle of the sole .
The fibres of its ten-doni passed exclusively to the the outer toes .
In No. 15 the " muassa carnea " was replaced by a thick tendon attached to the intner border of the tuber calcis .
At its junction with the outer telndon of origin , a small flat muscular belly was developed upon it .
In the right foot of No. 24 , a tenidon from the outer hlead of any otherwise normal accessorius was joined to the superficial or peeforated telndo-n of the miiiddle toe , forming decussating fibres with others from the opposite side of the latter in the usual way .
Three out of the four abnormlialities in these muscles were found in femuale subjects .
The completelexor acCessoriius lon us was seen , however , in a male subject , as in the three inlstances described last year .
31 .
Lumibricales pediis.-All the abnormalities in these muscles resilted from deficinciev .
In two the fourtt was absent , one on the right side and one on the left .
In onie the second was wanted on both sides .
All were male subjects , 32 .
Ple.ror brevis diyitorum.-All the varieties of this inuscle were also fromldeficiency .
In all the seveni subjects affected , the tenldon to the little toe was absen:t , and , ill six out of seveni , on both sides .
In one ( No. 3 ) its place was supplied by a smuall fusiforin slip of musele , arising from the outernmost tendoni of the flexor longus pegforcns .
In anlother ( No. 4 ) the supplemerntary iwuscle arose by two slender fusiform bellies , one from the lonig flexor tenidon , and the other from the iinner tuberele of the calcis , deeper than the fibres of the flexor brevis digitorum .
This , which the author looks upon as a transitional form to the arranigemenit found in No. 3 , and in the Apes and M1,1onkeys , was precisely like that given in the author 's paper of 1865 .
In the rest of the subjects no substitute to the missing tendon was found , though possibly a f'eeble development may have escaped observation in soimie of them .
Mfecliel has remarked on the fiequenit deficiency of this telndoni in the hunmal foot , and also that it is not always supplemented by the flexor perforaiis , comparing it to the usual deficiency of the flexor brevis in the _Monkeys , and its total disappearance in other Manlmalia .
33 .
Abductor ossis qnetatarsi gtinti.-No less than 17 specimuenis of this miiuscle , arising separately from the outer tubercle of the calcanieum , and inserted into the tubercular base of the fifth metatarsal bone , were found in the 36 subjects ( very nearly one half ) .
In three , subjects it was found on the right foot only , and in two , on the left only .
In the other 12 it existed on both sides .
Ten of the specimens were found in the 24 males , and seven in the 12 females , giving a preponderance of frequency in the latter sex .
This preponderance in the female sex is still liore striking , if the cases givent in the author 's last paper are inchuded in the estimate ; 8 hlavini1g been founcl in thie 16 females ( or onie half ) , while only 16 were found in the 54 males ( not one-third ) .
If this be establislhed by future observation , as well as the more frequent deficieuicy of the peroneus er/ tits in the samlel sex before alluded to , its bearing upoln the relative structural iniferiority of the sex will be curious , since both are animal peculiarities .
iMr .
Mlacalister states that he has found the abductoof the jiftit metatarsal honte existing(r as a distilnet muscle in .
nine outi of e-vry twelve sulbjects .
11 No. 5 of the Table the mauscle was peculiar in arising from the in ?
er tiiberele of the calcaneum by a large,.distinet , and triangular fleshv belly , anlid in beincg iniserted by a lon(g tendoni into the nieci or anterior part of the shaft , inistead of the tubercle of the fifth metatarsal bone .
34 .
Out of 18 sunidry specimens of ablnormnalities in the lower extreinity , two were peculiarities of the tendon of thoe lFle"xor longus kcdltIucis .
In oie , a female ( No. 8 ) , the usual slip of union .
with the flexor longus digitorun was wanlting .
In aniother female ( No. 6 ) the flexor longits hacliucis first receivedl a long slip from the flexor Comm1unwis , and then gavetwo separate tenidons to the secondcl and third toes .
That to the second conistituted the only perforating tendon , the one from the coilimon flexor being waniting , while that to the third toe joinied at the base of the digit with a smiialler one fromithe comiimoin llexor .
In two miiale subjects ( Nos. 5 &amp; 21 ) the Plaow/ lacuris muscle and tenidoni were both .
appareiitly blended with the outer head of the gastrocliemius .
In No. 30 the Superior gemnel.us was wanting .
In the right foot of No. 8 , a male subject remarkable for the number of its abnormalities , a considerable portion of the outer fibres of the Flexor brevis kalluois were detached from the rest , and inserted inlto the iinnier tubercle on the base of the first phalanix of the second toe .
In the left foot of the samel e subject a still larger slip froma the fibres of the Adcductor hallutcis was detached to the same destination .
This was also found as a less developed specimen in the left foot of No. 13 , also a male .
Two specimens of these abnormalities , also in male subjects ( on1e of each kind ) , were described by the author in his paper of last year .
They do not seem to have been before recorded by any anatomist , though apparently recurring in the proportion of about once in 18 or 20 subjects .
A male subject ( No. 9 ) was remarkable for the presenice of the muscle described by Otto as the -Peroneus quartus ( Never seltelne Beobacht .
S. 40 ) , arising from the lower fourth of the outer surface of the fibula below the peroneis brevis , and inserted by a distilnet tendoln into the outer side of the calcaneLimn , upon the tubercle between the peronieal grooves .
Theile mentions that this muscle somiietimes replaces the peroneus brevis itself .
In the case just described , both the peronieus longus and brevis were coexistent .
A va riety of the same character , but inserted inlto the outer border of the cuboid , is record ( I by AMacalister ( op .
cit. ) in .
a subject having , no peroneus tertiats .
One of the peroinei mullscles is , according to feckel , iniserted inito the cuboid in the Kangaroo .
IL a male slubject ( No. 14 ) , the right Peroneus longits had a double tendoil , one inserted intO the internal cn1Lneiforii , aId the other into thebase of the first metatarsal .
In a female ( INo .
15 ) the tenidoni of th:is iusole gave origini in the sole to the xoe , or and oponens m , nmzini dligiti , as well as to the thirdl plantar interossezte , as in the , vTalietuy figured in the3 authoir 's paper of 1865 .
In an0othier femnale ( No. 16 ) the Peroneits brevis was , in both legs , provided with a donLiblo tendon , both in-iserted into the usiai place .
The poronous tertius in the sa'mee subject was totally absent .
In , the left , leg of a mtale ( No. 20 ) a slip of teiic on was detached from the outer border of the [ iTbialis anatimtns muscle to be imiplanted into the inner borcler of the anterior an ' , nl , are ligy unomiatn-d corsclfascia .
Tin both legs of anLother male ( To .
29 ) a iore deoCided developmnenlt in this direction bad resuited in a distinet , flat , spreading inuscle , 3 iThebes long , arising from the outer surface of the tibia blelow and distinct fromU the fibres of the tibialis , and ending in a roumi , d tendon which was in3serted into the aninular ligament and dlorsal fascia1 below thoe malleolus .
Such a musele was describe-d bDy the au-'thior in his paper of 18861 ninlder the name of the Eensorfascice corsalis_pedis , occurring on-1 both sides in a femnale snbject .
In two subjects ( Nos. 22 84- ) a considerable portion of the mimzuer fibres oI the Peeliiees were found to pass across the front of the deep feoioral artery to becomrie inisertled with the upper fibres of the Addcetor Zonygms , an irregularity whilieh does not ' seem to have been litherto noted , A siinilar extenisiona of the origin of the adducto-r longus is seen in the M1armnot anmonig the P , odents , in the Rtatel of the Carnivora , and in the Alagot and Chimiipanizee amnong the Quadrumnana .
No. 24 was found to possess a remaarkable development in both feet of a-n Opponens orflexor ossis vmetacarpi inhimzi cl7qili .
In the right leg of a muscular fe-male subject ( No. 25 ) , the Biceps flexor crmtris was provided with a third head .
This conisisted of an elonogated , ro-Lxnded , and fuciform i mnscle ( fig. 6 , a ) , 8 inches lonSg and three-quarters of an1 iilch wide , coinniected above by a rounided tenldonl , 2 inches lo-ng , with the strong fascia which covered the deep surface of gluteus acaxiinis ( b 6 , cut and turned asite in the fionure ) .
Below , it was uniited by a tendon , 1 ineh long , with the isculal or lonlg head ( c ) , just above its junctioni with tue feioral head ( cl ) at the lo er third of the thigh .
Any additional leiad to this muscle , ti ounli n:ot at all com11mlon , yet has been recorded by various writers , viz. by lieckel , from the upper part of the " linea aspera ; " by GrLLber , f:roin the inaternial conidyloid ridge of the femiur ; by Henle , from tle3 fascia lata near the upper end of the linea aspera ; and by Smemimerring and G-ailntzer , arilsing from the tuber ischii .
Of these , the thhree former j oinied the femoral or short head , while in the instanoes given by the two last-naml , ed anlthors , the abnlormalc hieadl joinled th3 e isehial or long headl .
All having g closely or identically similar origini to those heads of the mausele with which thoy afterwards res3pectively uLnited , may be considered as extenSions and separations of a portioni of the fibres of those heads of originl .
Mfr .
M1acalister men-tionis that in a miiale subjectl he found in both lcg , s a continuation of the tendinous isehial origins oL t'Uhis muscle over the surface of the great sacrosciatic ligament to the side of the sacrunm , but it does not appear that this constituted any approCach to a distinct head .
But in the Specimen under consideration , the abnormiality is constituted by a distiniet muscular bundle , with all upper and a lower tenidon , the fibres of the former capable of being traced in those of thie deep gluiteal fascia for a considerable dista:nce .
In the Dog the author has found the almost exact counterpart of this third head of the biceps feeor Cruris .
it is a , deeply placed slender baud of muscular fibres , arising from the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament .
It lies under the isehial originl , and becomiies iniserited in .
; to the fascia on the outside of the leg belo\v the main bulk of the widely-spread biceps proper .
It is there connected also with a fibrous sheeath which invests the tendon of the p7antaris .
In this aiimna1 this mnuselar slip seems to repr , esent the caudal and sac ral origin of the biceps in the Rodents , and other Mammalia .
The homology between the abnlormnal third heads in the humiiani subject and the eaudal origini in animals was pointed out by Th-eile .
In a muscular male subject was founid any abnormuality , in malny poiits resembling that described by G-antzer as the " Accessorius ad cealcaneum .
" It was , however , very different , in its origin to these described by that author , alt'ihough identical in its form and insertion ( fig. 7 , a ) .
A. long slenlEder tenidoin , very much resemabling that of the plaNtaNCCiS in its texture and appearance , was placed along the ininer side , of it , so as to presentu the appearance of a double plauitaris .
This tendon was attached above to the uipper third of the hinder surface of the fibula , below the origini of the soleus ( b ) , and crossed obliquely the posterior tibial vessels , lml-uscles , and aponeurosis , towards the inniier malleolus .
At the lower third of the leg , a flat , ovoid , tapering , musculir belly , 3 inches long and 1 inch wide , wa7-s developed upon it , and became implanted by a short-spreading tendonl upon1 the calcanleum , n11 frontand to the inn-e1er sicle of the tencdo-aell11is , about three-quarters of an .
inch distant fromii it .
From the lower partj of its outer border the muscle sent o1ff a tedmlidous slip , which joined the p)laitaris tendonl iu a maiass of fibroI-fatty tissue placed abov-e the bursa of the tendo-achillis .
1lyrtl has mentioned the occasional occurLrence of a musele Sollmewhl1at resembling this , as arising fromx1 the popliteal ( ?
) ftascia , or locer part of the f-ibula , and inserted inlto the calcis .
This Ilenlle seems to conisider as an abnormal plantaris .
In the case just described , ho-wer , el the size , shape , and positioni of the muscular belly , and the insertionl o0 thec lower tendoni so mulich resemble the muscle described by Ganltzer , and aleo that figTured by the autthor in his paper of 1864 , that he h-ias 1to hesitation in referring it to the same class , with a somewhat highlier origin , obtainied by differen-tiation of the more vertical fibres of the posterior tibial aponeurosis .
It constitutes probably , however , a link with the pIladtais , similar to that which the lnusclo of the armii , which he1 has called the flexor CCOpi raclielis brevis , in some specimens formlls Awitli the pct9im)nis loncjzts .
Fromll this poinIt of view , this abnormal imnuscle in the leg has a similar relationi to the tibialis posticus that the incomplete nuscle in the arm has to a con2p ) let Jlexoor of the middle vnetacaqpel bone , its homologue ; and it ocecupies a like intermediate relation to the soleus as the onie in the arm does to the flexor sublimbis .
WYe shall finld hereini the mosSt probable solution of some of the difficulties of the homologies of these post-tibial muscles .
In addition to the foreg , oinbg subjects , the author 1has had the advantage of descriptions and sketches of : muscular abnormalities affecting three SuLbjeCts onLt of eight , from his friened and former assistanlt Mr. Bellamy , demonistrator ii anatomy at Charing Cross Hospital .
In one inmuscular ml1ale were founlld four abnortmalities , viz. in the right arm , a double pain.wris 7ion gus .
The irregular one was placed internal to the otherl , with its muscular -fibres comrmencing just above the mziddle of the arm , amlnd conitinLued downv to the annular ligament , intO which and the palmiar fascia it wAs iniserted .
In the same arm Awras found ta wAvell-developed extensor camqi radialis intermedius , arising distinctly betweeni the lon-gior and brevior by a fusiform belly , and iniserted by a lonlg t:enldonL into the posteriorannular lig am2ent , close to tlLe sheath for the outer extensors of the thulmul-b .
This the author looks upon as a formation interm-ediate to comiiplete development of any extenlsor carpi r-cadiatlis accessoritts .
A little fLurther extensioni forwards and outwards wotld1 have brought the inisertion of this multLSCle inito relation with the ori , in of the abductor pollicis brevis and the base of the first metacarpal .
Oni the left arim of the saime subtject was a clevelopment in the same direction in .
the low-er part of the arm .
A separate mtuscle was formedl of those upper fibres of the extensor ossis qinetacarlpi pollicis , which so frequenltly give off a slip of tendcloni to the origin of the abductor pollicis .
The muscle arose from the raditus and inlt , erosseous ligameent , ( uite distinctly from the extemisor ossis metacarpi , and was provided with a separate tencdoni , which , passing in the same sheath with thalt of the latter , subdlivided into two tendons , onie to be iniserted inlto the base of the first mlletacarpal , andi the other to join the otuter fibres of originl of the abductor pollicis brevis .
If both the tendencies eviniced in this interesting conceurreniee had been combine ; ed in the samue arm , the result might have been the production of an entire extensor earpi radialis accessor ius , like that described by the author in former papers .
In the left leg , of the samue subject was found a large and well-marked specimen of the accessorius ad calcaneumn of Gantzer , arising by a flat , bipenniform , muscular belly from the posterior tibial fascia below the tibial origin of the soleus , and inserted by a flat spreading tendon , which crossed obliquely the postmalleolar tendons into the os calcis in front of the tenwdo-achillis .
From its outer border was given off a spreading , aponeurosis , which was attached to the hinder border of the outer malleolus , almost like that seem in figure 7 .
In the left leg of a female subject was fournd the perforatus tendon of the little toe , arising from a separate triangularshaped muscle , which was attached to both the tubercles of the calcaneum between the superficial muscles and the accessorius , like that described in the author 's former papers .
In the left armi of another muscular male subject two abnormalities were found , viz. a third head of the pronator radii teres , arising with the fibres of the brachialis anticus at the junction of the mniddle and lower thirds of the humerus .
The median nerve and ulnar vessels passed between the abnormal and condyloid heads , and the radial artery came off high in the upper arm .
No supra-condyloid process was found on the bone ( as described by Gruber in such a case ) , although carefully looked for .
The other abnormality was a high muscular origin of the abductor minimi digiti , arising from the fascia covering the inner flexor muscles of the fore arin by a single penniform head , and joining partly with the normal abductor , and partly inserted by a separate tendcon into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger .
The author is indebted also to Mr. J. Galtoin , of the Dreadnought Hospital , for some clever sketches of three abnormalities , one of a detached slip of the pectoralis major , arising from the anterior end of the fifth rib , and inserted behind the sternal fibres into the fascia covering the coracobrachialis , an inch or so below the coracoid process ; another , of an " accessorius adflexoremn pollicis longum " of Gantzer , the tendon of Awhich , after being first connected by a broad aponeurosis with the muscular belly of the flexor longus pollicis , was then divided into two slips , one of which joined the tendon of the last-named muscle , and the other the indicial tendon of the flexor profundus digitorum ( as in subject 9 previously described ) .
The third was a small fusiform muscular slip , found on the deep surface of the flexor brevis Itallucis , arising by a pointed tendon from internal cuneiform bone , and inserted by another round tendon into the abductor and inner head of the flexor brevis hallucis , close to the sesamoid bone .
It seems to represent the " interosseus palmaris volaris " of the hand .
Out of 36 subjects dissected at King 's College during the Session , 34 have been found to present muscular abnormalities worthy of note .
Four of these bad also noteworthy abnormalities of some of the arteries ; viz. No. 3 , having 10 muscular varieties in the head and arm , had also an irregularity of the third part of the subclavian : , whence a common trunk was given off for the posterior and suprascapular arteries .
The itnternal mammary also gave off an accessory inferior thyroid .
No. 7 , having 10 muscular abnormalities , of which 7 were in the head and arm , presented that remarkable irregularity the right subelavian given off from the descending aorta below the left-while the two carotids came off from a common trunk * .
No. 20 , having 16 muscular abnormalities , 12 being found in the arm , had also a high origin of the radial artery .
No. 27 , having 12 mIUseular abnormalities , of which 9 were in the arm , presented the left vertebral arising from the aortic arch , and the posteriorand supra-scapular coming by a commoni trunk from the second part of the subelavian .
From the 31 cases contained in the adjoined Table , which were all examined and noted with the utrnost care and accuracy , a fair approximative idea may be deduced of the relative frequency of certain special instances in the two sexes ; on both sides of the body , or on one side only .
The total number of muscular abnormalities noted in 36 subjects is 295 ( reckoning both sides as one ) , of which 221 , or about two-thirds , were found on both sides , and 74 , or about one-third , Onl onie side only ; the proportion on the right side only being 39 , and those on the left side only 35 , or nearly equal on either side .
The individual abnormalities which exceed the above proportion on both sides are the cleido-occipital ; those of the pectoralis minor , coracobrachialis , brachialis anticus , extensor carpi ulnaris , and the interossei ; and the extensor imedii digiti in the ibpper extremity ; and the extensor longus primi internodii hallucis , and those of the extensor brevis digitorum pedis in the lower limb , all of which were found represented on both sides ; while the proportion of the abnormiialities of the latissiinus dorsi , the peroneus quinti , and the abductor ossis metatarsi quinti found on both sides was also greater thain that above given .
Those instances of which the proportion on one side only was greater than the average , were found in the flexor sublimis and profundus digitorurn and lumbricales , and the more rare abnormality , the flexor carpi radialis brevis vel profnidus , all of which last were found in the right arm .
Of the biceps flexor cubiti and the flexor longgus accessorius digitorum pedis nearly as maniy were found on one side only as on both .
The total number of abnormalities founnd in the 24 males was 215 , and in the 12 females 81 , showing a greater proportionate frequency in the male sex of alinost as many more .
Of this number , 15 are confined to the head , necic , and thorax ; 4 of which are in females , or rather less than the foregoing average .
No less than 174 are connected with , and acting chiefly upon , the bones of the upper limb , 130 of which are in males , and 44 in females .
This also is proportionately less in the feimale thaim the general average .
Of the remaining 106 found in the lower li'mb 74 were in niale , and 32 in female subjects , proportionately a considerably greater average oln the side of the femnale .
So far as these go , abniormalities of m1uscles appear to prepoliderate in the male , in the head , neclc , thorax , and arm , and , in the female , in the leg .
In a inuch greater proportion than this on the male side were the special abnormalities of the cleido-o cipital , pectoralis major , biceps , coraco-brachialis , brachialis auiticus , flexor longus pollicis , lumbricales and interossei manus , flexor carpi radialis profundus , palmaris loigus , supinator longus , extensor communis and brevis digitorum , manus , and extensor carpi ultiaris in the upmper limb ; and the peroneus quinti , extenisor lonigus anlc brevis digitorutm , and lutmbricales pedis iil the lower .
On the female side the most tangible preponderanice is found in the frequency of absence of the peroiieus tertius , and of the resence of the abductor ossis metatarsi quinti , the extensor carpi radialis intermneclius , and of the extensor longus prinii internodii hal'ucis .
The Table shows as decidedly as that of last year , the general absence of correypo ; tdence in combication of the muscular abnormalities .
Of the 14 subjects in which there are more thaui 10 variations , three only are females .
Onie subject has 17 lmluscular abniormalities , of which 15 are coniiected with the armns , and 2 only with the legs .
Two have 16 abnormalities ; in on-e of them 11 are connected with the arms ( including the cleido-occipital and the occipito-scapular given in fig , .
1 ) , 1 with the head , and 4 with the legs ; the other has 5 in the legs and 1 in the head and neck .
Two imiales have each 13 abnormnalities ; in one 10 are connected with the arms , and 3 with the legs ; and in the other , 1 is found on the ribs , and 4 in the legs .
Three subjects ( one of them a fenmale ) have 12 abnormalities , of which 7 belonig to the arms .
One male has 11 , of which 8 belong to the arms .
Two females have each 11 , of which 6 in one , and 5 in the other , belong to the arms ; and 4 in one , and 5 in the other , to the legs .
Three subjects have 10 abniormalities , of which 4 , 6 , and 7 respectively are found in the arins ; one of these , a male , and another a female , have each 5 belonging to the legs .
In 13 subjects 11o abnormalities are found in the head and neck .
In 7 more , those which were found there acted equally on the bones of the upper limb .
This leaves 14 in which the muscles of the head , neck , and thorax only were concerned .
InI subject only , a female , were no abnormalities found in the arms , the only abnormal muscle discovered being the abductor ossis metatarsi quinti .
In a male ( No. 4 ) 2 only were found in the arims , and 4 in the legs .
In 5 subjects one variation only is found in the legs , the others being found chiefly in the arms .
No levator claviculae , extensor carpi radialis accessorius , or sternalis muscles have this year been found .
With the exception of these and five others , all that were recorded last year have beeii found also this year , with the addition of abnormalities in 10 other muscles .
In the Table the figures which are placed at the end of the lines record the number of variations in each subject .
Those at the bottom of each colum-nn express the number of variationis in each inuscle or muscles , the nam-es of which are found at the head of the coluinns .
The ordinary Meetings of the Society were adjourned over Ascenlsion Pay and the Whitsuntide recess to Thursday , June 20 .

