The CROONIAN LECTURE was delivered by Prof. A. KOLLIKER , For .
Memb. R.S. , " On the Termination of Nerves in Muscles , as observed in the Frog ; and on the disposition of the Nerves in the Frog 's Heart , " as follows : When I was honoured by an invitation to deliver the Croonian Lecture , I at first hesitated to undertake the task , however gratifying to me , because I was not prepared with a subject of discourse which I thought likely to prove of sufficient general interest to the Fellows of this distinguished body , engaged as they are in the pursuit of very various branches of " Natural Knowledge .
" I felt that on such an occasion it was desirable to lay before the Society the result of some original research , but I feared that the matter I had actually at my command , referring more immediately to a question in Microscopic Anatomy , was scarcely of adequate importance .
Knowing , however , that the purpose for which this lecture was instituted is the elucidation of the " Nature and Laws of Muscular Motion , " and considering that my researches , although in themselves purely anatomical , have a decided bearing on that great physiological question , I have felt encouraged to lay them before the Society .
Termination of the Nerves in the Voluntary Muscles .
The investigation of the termination of the nerves in the muscles has for some time occupied the attention of various able inquirers , but the results attained are by no means in mutual accordance .
The recent researches of Kiihne , in particular , on the muscular nerves of the Frog , have led him to conclusions differing so widely from those of Wagner , Reichert , Schaafhausen , Beale and others , that I was induced to apply myself to the question , in the hope that I might be able to contribute something towards its elucidation* .
While previous observers have been unable to trace theomuscular nerves further than the surface of the muscular fibres , Kiihne t believes he has discovered that the nerve-fibres , on reaching a muscular fibre , penetrate into its interior and end amidst the muscular substance by several pale branches .
He states that the nerve-fibre , on reaching the muscular fibre , divides into several branches which retain their characteristic dark contours until they enter the muscular fibre , within which they become pale and faintly outlined .
He conceives that the tubular membranous sheath of the nerve-fibres coalesces with the sarcolemma , and that the branches when they enter the muscular fibre lay aside not only their membranous sheath but their white substance , to which they owe their dark outline , and are in fact reduced to mere ramifications of the axis-cylinder or central thread of the original fibre .
In connexion with these internal fibres , Kiihne further describes certain bodies which he proposes to name " terminal nerve-buds " ( Nervenendknospen ) .
These are attached laterally to the pale fibres , which then may end at some distance beyond in free pointed extremities , while some of the pale fibres appear actually to terminate in these end-buds .
The bodies in question are stated to be ovalshaped corpuscles , smaller than the well-known muscular nuclei , usually pointed at their distal extremity , where they bear a minute filamentous tuft .
According to Kiihne each consists of a little oval mass of finely granular substance , into which a fine filament , apparently derived from the axis-cylinder of the pale nerve-fibre , enters , like a pedicle , at one end , and runs along the middle as a sort of axiscylinder of the corpuscle , at the free end of which it swells out into a small interior pyriform body containing minute spherules very different in aspect from the granules of the surrounding granular substance .
The structure thus described presents , as Kiihne observes , some resemblance to that of a Pacinian Body , but yet with marked differences , and he does not lay any great stress on the point .
These observations of Kiuhne were made with a magnifying power of from J 000 to 1800 linear , on fresh muscular fibres ( from the gastrocnemius of the frog ) immersed in vitreous humour or blood-serum , also on fibres prepared by macerating a portion of muscle for 24 hours in extremely dilute sulphuric acid , then digesting for an equal time in distilled water at about 100 ?
F. , and finally shaking it briskly with a little water in a test-tube so as to separate the tissue into single fibres .
F2 s862 .
] 67 I , Believing that the wide divergence in the conclusions heretofore arrived at has been owing in great measure to difference in the methods of investigation employed , I made many trials in order to find out reagents which would increase the transparency of the muscular fibres without attacking or at least obscuring the finer fibres of the nerves , and have found the following to be well adapted for the purpose inview .
1 .
Extremely dilute acetic acidx .
2 .
Diluted hydrochloric acid ir the proportion of 1 part of acid to 1000 of water ; but as this reagent eventually softens and destroys the muscles , it is well to observe that the suitable time of exposure to it is from about 12 to 24 hours .
3 , Artificial digestive fluid , the use of which for a similar reason requires precaution .
4 .
Very dilute nitric acid in the proportion of 1 part of acid to 1000 of water .
The object selected for examination was for the most part the cutaneous pectoral muscle of the frog , in which the ramification of the nerves has been so successfully traced and represented by Reichertt .
In general I have found it better not to separate the muscular fibres , although I have not omitted also to examine single fibres from the same muscle , and from the gastrocnemius .
The magnifying power employed was from 500 to 600 linear , obtained by Hartnach 's lenses " a immersion " No. 9 &amp; 10 .
I have also tried a power of from 1000 to 1500 as used by Kiihne , but I could discover nothing by its aid which I did not see equally well with the lower amplification .
In proceeding now to give an account of my own observations , I have first to state that I have been able to confirm the observation of Kiihne that in the frog 's muscles the nerve-fibres really branch out at their ends into delicate pale filaments-a fact not hitherto recognized by Wagner , Reichert and others , who have investigated the relation of the nerves to the muscles in that animal .
But whilst agreeing with Kfihne as to the existence of these pale fibres , I am satisfied that they are situated , not within the muscular fibre but on its surface , as I shall more fully explain hereafter ; and that they lie outside the sarcolemma , through which they do not penetrate .
As to their nature , Kiihne regards them as prolongations *I find the best proportion to be from 8 to 16 drops of concentrated acetic acid , sp. gr. 1-045 , to 100 cubic centimetres ( 3ounces ) of distilled water .
t Miller 's Archiv , 1851 .
68 of the axis-cylinder alone ; but it decidedly appears to me that , besides the axis-cylinder , they are furnished with a prolongation of the membranous sheath ; indeed I have seen this so clearly in a great many favourable instances , that I can have no doubt on the point .
According to my view , therefore , the delicate membranous sheath does not quit the nerve-fibre and coalesce with the sarcolemma , as Kiihne believes , but continues to surround a pale prolongation of the soft contents of the nerve-tube .
As to the matter contained in the membranous sheath , it no doubt always comprehends the axiscylinder , and is chiefly formed by a prolongation of that structure ; but I have seen examples in which the contained matter showed slight varicosities and a certain darkness of outline , from which I infer that here and there at least a thin layer of the white substance extends along the pale fibre .
But whilst it is easy in most cases to Fig. 1* . ?
, ~d_^_.-d-^r-^-perceive the membranous sheath and its enclosed matter distinct from each other at the commencement of the pale fibres , yet in their further progress these structures coalesce together , and the terminal fibres then appear as uniform pale filaments .
They are still , however , to be regarded as tubes ; for , in the first place , they are prolongations of a decidedly tubular fibre , and , secondly , when treated with certain reagents , such as acetic acid , they exhibit a precipitate of fine sparse granules in their interior , as Kfihne has also observed ; although when examined in the fresh state , or after being treated with hydrochloric acid , or artificial digestive fluid , they appear pellucid and uniform throughout .
It is further worthy of remark , that whilst the pale fibres are for the most part rectilinear prolongations of the dark-contoured fibres , instances occur in whicth a dark fibre ends by dividing at once into two or three pale fibres .
More remarkable still are the cases in which a pale fibre comes off laterally , and sometimes at right angles from a dark fibre , or where two pale fibres come off together from opposite sides ; because such cases , which Kfihne appears not to have seen , or at least has not represented , are well calculated to show that the pale fibres are furnished with a prolongation of the membranous sheath .
The next question of interest arising from Kfihne 's observation refers to the bodies which he looks upon as peculiar terminal organs , and names the terminal nerve-buds .
As regards these corpuscles , I must confess that , after the most careful investigation , I have failed to discover that they possess the peculiar internal structure which Kfihne assigns to them .
Considering the skill and address in microscopic investigation which Kfihne has evinced in his inquiry , and feeling persuaded that he must have met with what seemed to him sufficient indications of the structure he has described , 1 bestowed the greatest pains on the examination of these so-called end-buds .
I studied them in muscles and muscular fibres , both fresh and treated with reagents .
I employed the same magnifying powers , and equally good lenses ; but the only conclusion to which I could arrive is , that the corpuscles in question are nothing but ordinary nuclei connected with the membranous sheath of the pale nerve-fibres , not essentially differing from those found attached to the sheath of the dark-contoured fibres from which the pale fibres are derived .
It is true that some of them show a dark streak in the middle or towards the border , which at first sight might suggest a peculiarity of structure ; but the appearance is obviously due to a fold or crease on the surface , and the same thing is seen in the undoubted nuclei of the dark-contoured fibres .
Their shape , position , and relative size may be judged of from the figures I have given ; and I have only further to remark , that in fresh preparations they are usually very 70 [ May 1 , faint , and therefore somewhat difficult to recognize ; but with certain reagents , such as acetic acid , they become darker , more granular , and somewhat shrunken , with an irregular outline ; with others , such as hydrochloric acid , they appear more homogeneous and pale .
As to their situation , they are attached along the fibres ; and I have never seen them at the ends , as Kiihne in some instances found , although sometimes they are placed very near the end .
Sometimes one is placed in the angle of division of a fibre .
They appear to be attached laterally ; yet I cannot doubt that they lie within the membranous sheath of the pale fibre , although the prolongation of the latter over them cannot be shown as a separate structure .
Were further evidence required concerning the true nature of these corpuscles , I might add that nuclei of precisely the same character exist on the pale terminal fibres of the sensory nerves distributed to muscles , as I shall more fully explain in the sequel , and indeed on the final ramifications of nerves in general , of which we have examples in the skin of the mouse and frog , in mucous membranes , in the cornea , and in the electric organ of the torpedo .
I come now to a more difficult question , namely , whether the pale end-fibres of the nerves really lie within the muscular fibres or not .
Important as the determination of this question is in relation to physiology , I can confidently say that I entered upon it without bias , and studiously put aside every consideration which might militate against the notion that the nerves penetrate into the muscular fibres .
Indeed I myself at one time thought that in certain parts of the cutaneous pectoral muscle of the frog I had seen muscular fibres penetrated by nerve-fibres .
On careful investigation , however , I became convinced that the seeming interior situation of the pale fibres is an illusive appearance , and so many proofs against its reality presented themselves , that I was finally constrained to come to a different conclusion from Kuihne on this point also .
According to my view , therefore , the pale terminal ramifications of the nerves lie wholly without the muscular fibres , that is , on the outer surface of the sarcolemma .
In support of this opinion I may , without insisting on negative evidence , which may be less regarded , adduce , in the first place , the fact that not unfrequently a pale fibre may be seen running on a muscular fibre towards the border , and then turning round to the other side , obviously outside the sarcolemma .
Again 1862 .
] 71 a pale fibre running along the border of a muscular fibre sometimes presents serpentine bendings , which appear alternately under and over the muscular fibre , and in the latter case are clearly exterior to the sarcolemma .
Moreover I have observed that the pale fibres derived from one dark fibre are sometimes distributed to two muscular fibres , and must therefore run outside and between them , -an appearance not reconcileable with the descriptions of Kihne , who states that nerve-fibres retain their dark contours until they penetrate the muscular fibre , and that the whole of the terminal pale filaments derived from a nerve-fibre are contained within one muscular fibre .
In further corroboration of what has been said I may add , that in surface-views of the parts in question the pale nerves always appear above the cross striae of the muscular fibre , also above its nuclei ; which fact would , it is true , not decide whether the pale fibres were outside or inside the sarcolemma , but is sufficient to prove that they do not lie amidst the contractile substance .
Further , this contractile substance within the sarcolemma may , by means of dilute hydrochloric acid , be softened and reduced to a fluid state , and nevertheless the pale fibres retain their original position unaltered , even when the liquefied contents of the sarcolemma with the muscular nuclei flow backwards and forwards within the tube .
Lastly , when muscular fibres are treated with acetic acid of a certain strength , the whole contents of the sarcolemma are squeezed out in the form of long transversely striated cylinders ; so that on cutting across the fibres of a muscle near the part where it receives a nerve , and treating it in the way indicated , the proper substance of the fibres may be examined apart from the sarcolemma , at the place where their nerves reach them .
Now , on repeatedly trying this experiment , I have never found a trace of the nerve-fibres on the extruded portions , whilst on the other hand they are still to be seen on the emptied sarcolemma .
It remains for me yet to say a word as to the mode in which the pale nerve-fibres actually terminate , a point on which I confess I have still some doubt .
It is true that I have observed apparently free ends as represented by Kiihne ; but , on the other hand , appearances sometimes present themselves which suggest the question , whether on the muscular fibre , as in the physiologically allied electric organ of the torpedo , there may not be an extremely fine network 72 [ May I , in which the pale nerve-fibres terminate .
Thus in many cases there is an appearance on the pale fibres of numerous short , pointed or blunt , lateral processes , or at least a certain want of definition in their outline , indicating that they may possibly send out still finer offsets .
At the same time I have not been able to trace the matter further in this direction ; and as regards the few undoubted cases of conjunction of the pale fibres which I have hitherto met with , I am not disposed to interpret them in the above sense .
Moreover we can often see the pale fibres so sharply and beautifully defined , and maintaining so long their rectilinear course , that it is difficult not to regard them as the true terminations ; so that the above-mentioned appearances to the contrary may perhaps be owing to the effect of the reagents used , which , while they clear up the muscular fibres , may attacl more or less the extremely delicate substance of the pale nerve-fibres .
On the Distribution of Sentient Nerves in the Muscles of the Frog .
Having thus laid before the Society the results of my observations on the motorial nerves of the frog 's muscles , I have now to speak of the terminations of other nerves which are distributed to the muscles of the same animal , and which are probably sensory in their office .
Nerves which are probably of a sentient nature have already been observed in human muscles by myself , and in the cutaneous pectoral muscle of the frog by Reichert , who takes the same view as to their nature .
As , however , the mode of termination of these nerves has not heretofore been fully investigated , I have been led to extend my inquiries to that question , and beg leave now to state the principal results .
The sentient nerves of the cutaneous pectoral muscle of the frog are supplied by the common moto-sensory nerve of the muscle ( fig. 2 , aa a ) , from which they come off at different points as single fibres , and , proceeding to the muscle , branch out upon it in its whole extent , even in parts which are destitute of motorial nerves .
As regards the details of distribution , however , there is not even an approach to uniformity in any two muscles , and therefore , instead of attempting a general description , I will refer to fig. 2 , which represents an individual case as seen under a low magnifying power , carefully copied from nature .
In this instance the sentient nerves consisted of five principal 1862 .
] 73 truncules as they may be called , each , however , being but a single fine fibre ; one of these ( fig. 2 b ) , larger than the rest , supplied the upper part of the muscle with branches , two ( c , d ) went to the middle , and two rather long ones ( e , f ) were distributed on the lower part of the muscle .
As to the original source of these truncules , I agree with Reichert in thinking that they are all derived from one principal sentient fibre , which is mixed up with the more numerous motor fibres in the small nerve a , a , a , which is supplied to the cutaneous muscle .
It is true that I have not been able , any more than Reichert , actually to trace back these truncules to their parent fibre in the trunk of the common nerve .
Nevertheless I feel much confidence in believing that they arise in the way stated ; and especially because I have met with cases in which the parent fibre of all the sentient nerve-fibres of the cutaneous muscle escapes from among the motorial fibres of the common muscular nerve at some distance from the muscle ; so that its division into the secondary truncules may be seen .
Moreover I have never seen fibres , which from their final distribution may be reckoned as motory , coming from the sentient fibres , nor the latter from the former ; although I have sometimes met with a deceptive appearance to the contrary , caused by true motor fibres attaching themselves for a little way to a sentient fibre , and then seeming to come off as branches of it .
In their progress the dark-bordered sentient fibres for the most part tend towards the outer or cutaneous surface of the thin muscle , on reaching which they branch out upon it underneath a thin fascia , which covers the muscle and forms also the wall of an adjacent lymph-space .
The terminations of these sentient nerve-fibres were not seen by Reichert , and doubtless because he used potash in his examination of them ; but with the aid of some of the reagents already mentioned they may be traced out , although from their extreme tenuity and paleness this is no easy matter .
Their mode of termination is on the whole similar to that of the motor nerves , only the pale endfibres have a more extended distribution and are much finer .
The of the cutaneous muscle ; b , c , d , sentient fibres ( truncules ) to upper and middle part of muscle , and e , f , to lower part , all dividing into finer terminal filaments connected with nuclei which are not represented in this general view ; , h , h , h , branches off which went to abdominal muscles ; i , i , i , swollen parts of muscular fibres containing ' nerve-tufts .
' 1862 .
] 75 figures will serve better than a long description to give a correct idea of their terminations .
Whilst fig. 2 , drawn under a low magnifying power , represents their general mode of distribution , fig. 3 shows a small part of their ramification and two or three terminations , highly magnified .
It will be seen that the larger fibres divide and redivide into smaller branches , which still retain their dark contours , but give off in their course lateral pale branches , and finally end in pale and numerous prolongations .
In the pale fibres , at their commencement the membranous sheath is distinct from the contained fibre , which doubtless consists of the axis-cylinder , with at first some part of the medullary substance ; in their progress the sheath becomes blended with the contents , and can no longer be distinguished as a separate structure .
Nuclei ( f , f , fig. 3 ) are seen Fig. 3 * .
all along the pale fibres , and also on the smaller dark fibres .
In short , the structural character of the pale sentient fibres is , so far as it can be discovered , essentially the same as the pale terminations of the motor nerves .
As already noticed , however , they become smaller in size ; indeed the extreme prolongations are in some places attenuated to the size of filaments of connective tissue .
Their fine terminations , moreover , lie quite superficially in the perimysium or sheath of the muscle , and between it and the muscular fibres , and are in a great measure confined to the outer or cutaneous surface ot the muscle , although here and there fibres are seen turning to the under surface .
Nerves of the Blood-Vessels .
Besides the sentient nerves which I have here described , I have found , in the same cutaneous muscle of the frog , nervous filaments on the blood-vessels , although I have not yet been able fully to satisfy myself as to their source and distribution .
These vascular nerves entirely agree in character with the pale sentient fibres , and , like them , are furnished with nuclei .
I have found them chiefly on small veins , and on fine vessels on the arterial side of the capillaries , which were , however , destitute of a muscular coat .
On these vessels I have traced them a considerable way , passing from one branch to another and often dividing , but have not been able to observe distinct terminations .
Now and then also I have recognized them on vessels possessing a decidedly arterial structure ; but I am unable to state anything positive as to their arrangement in this case , inasmuch as the nuclei in the outer coat of the small arteries occasion much difficulty in following out pale nucleiferous fibres .
Once only I was fortunate enough to trace the origin of one of these vascular fibres from a dark-bordered sentient fibre ; and this observation , so far as it goes , together with their distribution to vessels destitute of a muscular coat , favours the notion that the nerve-fibres in question are of the sentient kind .
On the Nerve-tufts in the Cutaneous Muscle of the Frog .
In the same muscle of the frog to which I have already made so constant reference , there may be observed , and most commonly about the end of the winter season , from three to five objects of peculiar structure , which at first sight appear to be of the nature of tactile corpuscles or terminal nerve-bulbs , but which really do not belong to that class of organs .
The objects in question are indicated in 1862 .
] 77 figure 2 at i i , and one is represented on a larger scale in figure 4 .
They are found on the finer muscular fibres , and appear on a superficial inspection as nodular swellings or somewhat thickened portions of the fibre , marked by a profusion of rather roundish nuclei , and receiving a single very thick nerve-fibre , loosely surrounded by its comparatively wide membranous sheath .
On further examination it is found that the nerve-fibre , on reaching the nodule of the muscle , is wound up at one or more spots on the surface into a coil or tuft , in the mean time undergoing repeated division ; and for the most part it may be seen to enter the muscular fibre , in which the dark-bordered fibres , becoming finer , are finally lost to view .
Fig. 4 ' C ; The last-mentioned fact struck me as specially important , inasmuch as it seemed to afford an instance of the penetration of a nerve into the interior of a muscular fibre , as maintained by Kiihne .
On a careful examination , however , of the structures in question in muscles rendered transparent by acetic acid , I found that the apparently simple muscular fibre bearing the swelling is really a small bundle of from three to seven fine fibres ( fig. 5 ) , and that the * Fig. 4 .
A nodule or swelling of a muscular fibre ( or rather fasciculus ) , with a large nerve-fibre , nerve-tuft , and nuclei ; highly magnified .
apparently penetrating nerve-fibres merely pass between these muscular fibres .
Fig. 5 .
_.^ ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
__ On tracing the peculiar and seemingly simple muscular fibres towards the ends of the muscle , I found that they there evidently consist of several smaller but still transversely striated fibres , and this brought to my mind the bundles of fine muscular fibres described by Weismannt , and known to me also from actual inspection , which induced that observer to infer the occurrence of longitudinal divisions of the striated fibres .
This led me to study these bundles singly by treating the cutaneous muscle with strong solution of potash , and then I found that it is precisely these particular bundles which ( appearing as single fibres ) exhibit the peculiar swellings with the coiled nerve .
In the situation of the swelling the finer component fibres of the bundle cling fast together , even after the operation of the alkali , and a certain amount of striated granular uniting matter is found between them , which may be partly the remains of fine nerve-fibres and capillaries , and some accompanying connective tissue .
Now , if it be admitted that the finer muscular fibres composing the bundle are generated by the division of thicker muscular fibres , as Weismann justly concludes , the explanation of the nerve-tufts becomes easy ; inasmuch as they may be conceived to arise from a simultaneous growth and division of the nerve-fibre belonging to the parent muscular fibre , in order that each of the young muscular fibres may obtain its branch of nerve .
The process by which this is effected cannot be satisfactorily studied in consequence of the close cohesion of the fine muscular fibres at the spot , but most probably the original pale terminal fibres of the parent nerve undergo further development by growth and by multiplication of the nuclei , so as finally to supply all the new muscular fibres ; and I think it not * Fig. 5 .
A small bundle of fine muscular fibres into which an apparently simple ( bnt really longitudinally dividing ) fibre has been resolved by means of potash .
a , Nodule or swelling which contained a nerve-tuft .
t Zeitschr .
fur rationelle Medicin , 1860 , Band x. 1862 .
] 79 unlikely that a part of the numerous nuclei in the neighbourhood belong to the nerve-fibres .
Simultaneously with the increase of its terminal fibres the darkbordered parent fibre doubtless augments in thickness , which explains the fact , otherwise difficult to understand , that it is invariably of much larger size than the nerve-fibres proceeding to the other muscular fibres .
From what has been stated it will thus be seen that the relation of the nerve to the peculiar structures described does not support the views of Kfihne .
On the Termination of the Nerves in the Involuntary Muscles , and on the disposition of the Nerves in the Heart of the Frog .
Having , to the best of my power , investigated the ending of the nerves in voluntary muscles , I thought it right to extend my researches to those of the involuntary muscular organs , respecting the ultimate terminations of which very few , if any , satisfactory observations have been heretofore made known .
The muscles I selected for examination were those of the heart and pharynx of the frog , and the methods of preparing them were the same as for the voluntary muscles .
The nerves of the frog 's heart are the two nervi vagi or pneumogastries , which , having reached the heart at the place where the venous sinus joins with the right auricle , enter the septum between the two auricles , and proceed therein to the ventricle .
During this part of their course the two trunks of the vagi , which join together at their entrance into the heart , are almost everywhere beset with numerous ganglionic cells .
These cells in some parts form larger masses , well described by Bidder several years ago* .
One or two of these masses lie in the upper part of the septum , and may be called the " superior auricular ganglions " ; another is situated in the lower part of the septum , near the ventricle , the " inferior auricular ganglion " ; and a very remarkable and constant ganglion is seated in each of the two larger valves placed between the ventricle and the auricles , -these are the " c ventricular ganglia " of Bidder .
Apart from these larger ganglionic masses on the trunks of the vagi , there are found , although without regular arrangement , gangliMiiller 's Archiv , 1852 .
80 [ May 1 , onic cells , single or in small clusters , on the larger branches distributed to the venous sinus and the auricles , but none on those of the ventricle ; so that the ganglionic matter of the ventricle exists only at its venous aperture .
Respecting the microscopic structure of these parts , it is known that amongst the ganglionic cells there are many which give origin each to only one nervous fibre , and have therefore been termed unipolar cells , whilst there are others that apparently give off ' no fibres , and are named apolar cells ; but it is as yet altogether unknown whether the proper or radical fibres of the vagi connect themselves with the ganglionic cells of the heart or not , and it is equally uncertain from what immediate source the nerve-fibres proceeding to the muscular substance of the heart are derived .
Most physiologists seem to believe that the fibres of the vagus or pneumogastric are not directly distributed to the muscular fibres of the heart , but that they act only through the medium of the ganglionic cells , and that the fibres derived from these cells are the real motory nervous elements .
So far as I know , however , notwithstanding its importance , no one has hitherto examined into this matter .
My own inquiry has had a twofold object : first , to ascertain the relation of the pneumogastric to the ganglionic cells ; and secondly , to find out the mode of termination of the ultimate divisions of the nerves on the muscular fibres .
As regards the first question , all my observations tend to show that the nervous system of the frog 's heart is constituted on a very simple principle .
There are , in fact , two distinct although associated systems of nervous fibres distributed to every part of the muscular walls of the heart : namely , first , the proper or radical fibres of the vagus , which pass through the ganglia of the heart , without , so far as I can discover , connecting themselves with the ganglionic cells , and proceed straightway to the muscular fibres ; and secondly , fibres derived from ganglionic cells , which are associated with the original vagus-fibres , and run with them to the muscular tissue .
The obvious bearing of this matter on important questions of physiology requires that I should here explain the grounds on which the conclusion now stated is founded .
On this head I have first to state that , in following with the microscope and with the aid of potash the fibres of the vagus as they pass through the several ganglions of the heart , it is easy to see that they run through these bodies without forming any connexion with the ganglionic cells .
Of course I do not pretend to have traced every individual fibre , but I can speak positively of the large majority , and conclude that the same holds good generally , the more so as the ganglion-cells themselves present conditions which corroborate this conclusion .
These cells , that is to say , all of them which are connected with nerve-fibres and whose connexions can be clearly made out , are unipolar , or send out but a single fibre , and that in a peripheral direction , without having any connexion with the transcurrent fibres of the vagus .
Bipolar or multipolar cells are not to be seen : some apparently apolar cells present themselves , but concerning these it may be doubted whether they are not unipolar cells whose issuing fibre is in some way hidden from view .
I may add that , as the cells lie mostlyat the side of the vagus and its branches , and not amongst its fibres , their relation to the latter is less difficult to determine .
From what has been said I feel justified in my conclusion that there are in the frog 's heart two distinct systems of nervous fibres , one ganglionic , the other directly proceeding from the vagi or pneumogastric nerves .
Before proceeding , in the next place , to describe the terminations of the nerves , I have to explain that the ; muscular tissue of the frog 's heart is entirely made up of short spindle-shaped uninucleated fibres , or fibre-cells , resembling in every respect those described by me in the involuntary muscles generally , except that they have very distinct transverse striae .
These striated fibre-cells , as correctly described by Weismann , are arranged so as to form larger and smaller bundles , and these unite into a network which , in each of the three parts of the heart , is continuous throughout .
Now , respecting the nerves , it is easy to show that their smaller branches , composed of dark-bordered fibres from the vagus and the ganglion-cells , also form a general network , with larger and smaller meshes , on or between the secondary muscular fasciculi .
As the ramifications become finer the component nerve-fibres gradually lose their medullary sheath , and are finally continued into pale nucleated filaments which lie singly or two or three together in the finest muscular bundles .
The last terminations are pale , nucleated fibres , entirely agreeing in aspect with those described as the ends of the sentient nerves in the voluntary muscles .
82 [ May 1 , They enter here and there into the fasciculi of muscular fibre-cells , ramify in these bundles , and end in very fine pointed extremities .
The muscular fasciculi are on the whole rather richly supplied with these terminal fibres , so that two or three may be readily found in each bundle by any one accustomed to such investigations .
Still it is plain that the nerve-terminations are by no means equal in number to the muscular fibre-cells , so that several of the latter must be governed by one and the same terminal nerve-fibre .
The same mode of nerve-termination as in the heart prevails in the non-striated muscular tissue of the pharynx and bladder of the frog , excepting that the terminal fibres are more scanty ; but as these run over a larger extent of the muscular tissue before coming to an end , their comparative rarity may be compensated by their acting at the same time upon a larger number of the muscular fibres .
With these remarks I conclude the account of my anatomical investigation of the terminations of nerves in muscles .
It will be obvious to every one conversant with the physiology of the muscular system , that many of the facts on which I have dwelt are of more or less importance in reference to physiological questions ; and I would have gladly availed myself of the opportunity now so courteously afforded me of addressing this learned Society , to take up also the physiological side of the question , did I not fear to have already made too large a demand on your patience .
I refrain therefore from entering on so large a subject , and shall take leave only to offer the following as what appear to me to be the more interesting physiological inferences from the anatomical facts I have described .
1 .
As the motor nerves lie outside the sarcolemma , and are confined in their distribution to a comparatively short portion of the muscular fibre , it may be inferred that there must be action at a distance .
2 .
As the ends of the motor nerves are pale fibres destitute of medullary sheath , it would appear that the latter is of but secondary importance .
The same fact may perhaps also afford an explanation of the special action of certain poisonous agents , as the urari , on the ends of these nerves .
3 .
The muscles have numerous sentient nerve-fibres distributed at their surface , or on the surface of their larger divisions .
G2 1862 .
] 83 4 .
The heart , at least the heart of the frog , has two distinct sets of nervous fibres , those of the pneumogastric and those from the ganglion-cells , which are both distributed to the muscles .
The vagus therefore acts directly on the muscular fibres of the organ , and the well-known experiment of Weber can scarcely be explained through a supposed action of the vagus on the ganglia .
On the other hand , the ganglia and their fibres are also motorial organs of the heart , and alone act when it is separated from the body .

