]\gt ; The of the Osrnotic of Solutions by the rement oVapo Pressures .
By the or KELEY and E. G. J. TLEY , .
( Oxon .
) .
( Communicated by .
C. D. lVhetham , eceived November 11 , \mdash ; Read December 7 , 1900 In , 1903 , we described , a preliminary paper , some experiments by which had measured directly the osmotic of strong solutions of cane in water .
Since then a repetition of the experiments with an improved has been carried out , results of which we hope to publish very shortly .
As these results depart widely from heoretical } , it was deemed advisable to obtain osmotic ures of the same solutions by an independent method ; and an experimental ation of the well known connection between the " " " " of the vapour pressure of a solution and its osmotic pressure seemed suitable .
After some experiments with a dew point nlothod , the dynamical method due to Ostwald and Walker was selected , as promised to be a rapid one and to be capable of giving results both with the solutions , the osmotic pressures of which we had already eastll C , and those where the osmotic pressures are higher than direct measurements reach ; also it is applicable to solutions of substances for which no semipermeable membranes have yet been found .
The method is described by Ostwald as follows : ( Two 's potash bulbs containing the solution , and one containing the water , are connected with each other .
The last is weighed , and is in its turn connected with a -tube containing pumice soaked in .
A current of air is drawn through the appaJ'atus .
The air tirst saturates itself up to the vapour pressure of the solution then takes .
the the quantity of vapour necessary for complete saturation , all of it ives up to the sulphuric acid .
The loss of weight of the is to the increase of of the sulphuric ncid as the between the vapour of the solution and of ) water is to tho vapoulressnrc of pure water It was advisable to modify so as to obtain a closer of best itions for rying out { experiment .
With in view , the forc c the solution , completely dried by ' fiov .
Soc. Proc vol. 7.3 , p. 4 , ' Physical helt .
Icabllremcntq , ) .
, Walker 's translation , lS94 .
of the of Solutions .
passing through sulphuric acid , but the remainder of the train of corresponded to the arrangement described above .
Then by ] the two vessels the solution , three objects were attained : The weight lost by the solution is a direct measure of its vapour pressure , and consequently this loss in conjunction with the loss of of the water vessel gives a value for the ratio of the two vapour pressures to one another ; ( 2 ) it is evident that the sum of the losses in weight of the solution and water yessels should equal the gain in ftht in the vessel the sulphuric acid .
This , it was hoped , would give a test as to the value of the particular experiment .
It was found , however , that a small quantity of water always condensed in the junction leading from the water to the sulpburic acid , and as therefore hence the gain of the sulphuric acid was not used in the calculations ; ( 3 ) by hing the second vessel containing the solution an insight is afforded into the question as to whether the air , on from the vessel , was saturated up to the vapour pressure of the solution or not .
We would draw attention to this , as it seems an importantuide to the to be attributed to the experiment .
of the llcthod.\mdash ; This second vessel always lost weight , and numerous experiments were carried out in the endeavour to find the cause .
The loss occurred in spite of alterations in the rate of , or in the forms of the absorption tubes .
Eyentuall the explanation was found iu following fact .
If air be passed through two absorption bulbs , which are , filled with water , and connected together , the bubbles , to the differenco in hydrostatic pressure , will increase in volume during their .
Consequently , the air , saturated on leaving the first , will take up yet more water vapour from the second .
Another error which may occur with the bubbling method , is particles of fine spray may be given off and thus cause loss of .
That this occurs .
was shown by rapidly bubbling air in one case through sulphuric acid into a barium chloride solution , in other through a barium chloride solution into one of silver nitrate ; in both cases there was a precipitate .
ModiJication of Mctho \mdash ; The bubbling method was therefore discarded , and it was sought to avoid these sources of error by passing the air orcr the liquids instead of through them .
Flat glass spirals were made out of -inch tubing .
Each spiral was about 30 inches long , to increase the surface , they were nearly filled heads .
* We hope to overcome this difficulty in the course of further expel.iments .
See ' Nature July , 1905 .
Earl of Berkeley and Mr. E. G. J. Hartley .
[ Nov. 11 , The loss of weight of the spiral containing the second solution was now considerably less than before , and with two spirals containing water there was no loss in the second .
These spirals were discarded , however , owing to the unaccountable which occurred , and also because it was thought that the loss in the second spiral be due to the surface of the solution in the first spiral having 1uecome concentrated loss of water , such loss not pellsated for by the stirring which necessarily in the bbblignethod .
Final of Apparatus.\mdash ; The which seems to satisfy all the requirements is in figs. 1 , , and 3 ; the first sure is a plan , the second and are side and end elcvations respectively . .
FIG. 2 .
FIG. 3 .
are ) about diametel ' and 20 cm .
long ; these joined , in the manner hown in the plan at by inverted ) ) are inlet and exit tubes ; they are about 8 and ) cm .
in diameter .
The is filled to about a third of its capacity with the liquid , and it will easily be seen that on htly 1 one end or other , a clear passage for the is obtained in that htlS by ) the vessel on a platform , and the latter out an clxi to the line joining , the liquid in each of the four branches is caused to flow from one end to the .
This flow keeps the solution , and also periodically wets the ends of the branches , at the same tiJne the contents of the branches are prevented from the air pped in the turned up onds .
lt ered t the lncntioned is of some importance , for if the rate of of ) air ) , it will practically be saturated up to vapour pressure of the solution it has passed the First three solutiou in the fourth branch then remains the tion t the inlent , and the air from ) this is ) to vapour pressure of the As a help to ) cattainlilent of complete tion , the 1905 .
] of the Osmotic Prcssures of Solutions .
159 of liquid in contact with the air was increased by filling the last branch of each vessel with platinum foil rolled up into small tubes about cm .
long and cm .
in diameter .
To test this apparatus , air was drawn through two of the vessels containing sodium chloride solution ( 75 grammes in 250 ) , which were joined together and placed on the oscillating platform in a water bath ; two experiments were made , and in neither was the in weight of the second vessel greater than gramme ; the rate of passage of the air was htly faster than that used in a determination of the lowering of the vapour pressure , and it was passed through for three days .
The Joints.\mdash ; Considerable difficulty was experienced in finding a satisfactory method of joining two vessels to one another ; it may , therefore , be of use to mention some of the forms of joint which failed .
By reason of the long of time an experiment lasted , it was essential that all the vessels of the train should be as nearly as possible at the same temperature .
They were , therefore , placed in a water bath ; consequently the joints had to withstand the pressure due to the height of water above them , besides being impermeable to water vapour .
Mr. Shaw*has shown that rubber is slightly permeable to water vapour , so plain rubber tubing was not suitable .
FIG. 4 .
A joint shown in was tried lt consisted of an rubber 1 , which served to a glass dome , , and which was perforated with holes ; two of these served for the passage of the tubes , , leading to the two vessels to be joined to one another , and the third ' Phil. TraIlS vol. 179 , p. 97 .
Earl of Berkeley and Mr. .
G. J. Hartley .
[ Nov. 11 , to a -tube , which mercury could ] ) introduced so as to cover the top of the plug .
This form of joint was given owing to the difficulty of manipulation .
Another joint tried is shown in .
The tnbes to bejoined are A and I A turns over as shown and widens out so as to overlap the end of B. means of an indiarubber plug , a mercury cup , , is supported on , and mercury to close the bottom of A is placed in cuP ; another tube , , is secured to A by a plug at such a that it overlaps the whole joint , and thus serves to keep the water of the bath off the mercury .
This joint was discarded , because it was found that the alternate compression and expansion of the air inside , due to the oscillation of the platform , caused water to be deposited on the mercury , and it was feared that some of this moisture might creep round the bottom of A. FIG. 6 .
FIG. joint hich seemed the most satisfactory is in fig. 6 .
The two tubes to bc joined are A and is all invel C-tube whose ends up against A and P ) , ) tubing .
Both joints made tight by glass sleoves , and 1 which are carried by rubber ) lugs , up to a sttch ercury in them will cover the rubber about 1 .\mdash ; A copper bath was used ; it flled with water , whose temperature } ) constant by means of a .
The aturc in later did not by more 3/ 100 of a of .
The bnt 1905 .
] of the Osmotic Pressures of Solutions .
161 water was kept vigorously stirred night and day by a large stirrer actuated by the laboratory shafting .
The Air \mdash ; The air was drawn the train of vessels by a double acting Fleuss pump , which was driven by the laboratory shafting .
To obtain as steady a stream of air as possible , the pump was connected to a large air reservoir as shown in fig. 7 .
A is a 10-litre glass bottle which is connected to the pump by the tube B. The tube , which connects to the vessels through the tap , dips under a shallow layer of mercury at the bottom of , thus forming a kind of non-return valve .
The tap gives connection to the atmos- phere , and the air current is regulated by adjusting the two taps .
The \mdash ; The laboratory shafting also drove a worm and wheel , and the latter , by means of a pulley cord , caused the 9-inch wheel ( see fig. 8 ) to revolve once in six minutes .
The , on which the vessels stand , is idly connected to the arm and is pivoted about ( supports not shown ) .
A pin , with , and working up and down the slot , , comnlunicates the requisite motion to the arm .
The dimensions of the various parts are such as to cause to tlavel an arc of 20 degrees .
Th of the " " lioe ucring\ldquo ; of Vapour .\mdash ; Fig. 9 is a diagram representing the assembled apparatus .
The air enters at where it is filtered through cotton-wool , it then passes into the tube , , which is nearly filled with beads moistened with sulphuric acid .
On emerging from it is led by rubber tubing into the glass spiral , , where it takes up the temperature of the bath , and then into the sulphuric acid vessel , where it is completely dried .
From it passes the train of weighed vessels , and , into a 15-litre bottle , I. The vessels and contain the solution , and and the water and sulphuric acid respectively .
The , serves to damp down the changes of pressure caused by the air bubbling through the water in J. From the air passes to the arrangement shown in fig. 8 .
The process followed in an experiment was first of all to clean the vessels , Earl of Berkeley and Mr. E. G. J. Hartley .
[ Nov. 11 , inside and outside , with a mixture of chro1nic and sulphuric acids , then after washing and the inside , tlIe last branch of each vessel was filled with platinum bubes which had recently been fnited .
The right quantity , about 28 , of the various liquids was then measured into their respective vessels , and the latter , together with a closed coumterpoise made of the same glass , and of the same sflape and size as the vessels themselves , were washed and dried .
It was necessary to pay great attention to the ' and , otherwise the amount of moisture condenses on the vessel and counterpoise when on the balance pans will not be same .
They were , therefore , first washed with distilled water and then with ) alcohol , and finally dried with dry fine linen dusterfi .
The vessel and counterpoise vere then weighed , ainst one another , by the lncthod of double ( J. and the temperature of the balance case and the of the barometer noted .
A special balance , made by ) work , because ordinary balances not fitted ) euough to take ) vessels , , further , the weight of some of the earlier of vessel was over 250 rammes .
After the vessels they in their places on the platform and connected by cady described , the whole then lowered into ) ) started .
rate of of air wa .
the rate of ) ( see fig. 9 ) , it } the ents , as as be to bubbles in of tinle , which an lasted , varied with diffel.cnt concentl.atiollS .
order 1905 .
] Determvnation of the Osmotic Pressures of Solutions .
163 accuracy we aimed at was 5 per cent. , and to reach this it was found necessary to obtain a loss of weight , in the vessel containing the water , such that the experimental error in weighing should not exceed 5 per cent. of the total loss .
The experimental error in weighing one of the vessels was found to be under gramme , hence the loss of water should be at least gramme .
The rate of bubbling mentioned gave this Ioss , with the weakest solution used ( grammes of sugar in 1000 ) in about 96 hours .
When the experiment was judged to be finished the vessels were taken out of the bath and washed , dried , and weighed s , s before\mdash ; the balance temperature and height of barometer being noted for use in the reduction of the weights to a vacuum .
The table on p. 164 is a copy from the laboratory notebook of one of the later experiments .
The solution used is 660 grammes sugar in 1000 On taking down the vessels it was noticed that some water had condensed in the tube joining and , and its weight could not be satisfactorily estimated .
Diference Wcight ought o Losses 1.7158 Gain Difference Mean corrected temperature C. For the purpose of the weights to a vacuum , the capacities of the different vessels and of the counterpoise had previously been determined , and , knowing the quantity of liquid put into the tubes , the data for the reduction is at hand .
In this experiment the vessel , containing the second solution , lost gramme in weight .
A similar loss was always experienced with cane-sugar solutions , but it will be remembered that with two vessels containing a sodium-chloride solution no appreciable loss was observed .
The only difference that we could detect in the behaviour of these two solutions , when set up in an experiment , was that , on oscillating the vessel containing the cane sugar , there is a tendency for septa of the liquid to form VOL. LXXVII.\mdash ; A. Earl of Berkeley and Mr. E. G. J. 1905 .
] of the Osmotic Pressures of Solutions .
165 across the tube just after the solution has run down to the lower end .
These septa travel some distance with the air current before breaking .
With sodium chloride , however , the septa seldom form , consequently the loss of weight in the second vessel containing the sugar solution be caused by the slight change of pressure resulting on the increase of work to be done by the air in moving the septa in the first vessel*\mdash ; the loss is therefore quite analogous to that mentioned on p. 158 .
The results of the experiments are given in the following tables:\mdash ; Experiments with Flat Spiral Tubes .
* This experiment was carried before the conditions necessary for accurate weighmg were realised .
Experiments with Vessels described on p. 158 .
It will be noticed that in the experiments with the spiral tubes the loss of the water is less than gramme .
These experiments were made before we had been able to appreciate the experimental errors .
* Mr. Whetham suggested this explanation to us .
Earl of Berkeley and Mr. E. G. J. Hartley .
[ Nov. 11 , The numbers under the column headed otic pressure\ldquo ; are calculated from equation , where is the osmotic pressure , the vapour pressure of the water , the vapour pressure of the solution and the density of water the temperature of the experiment , is the density of water vapour under the standard atmosphere , A. The iscussion of this equation is given below .
Theory.\mdash ; When the results of our vapour-pressure experiments were used for calculating the osmotic pressures by means of Arrhenius ' well-known relation :\mdash ; ( 1 ) ( this equation differs from the one given above only in that the density of the solution replaces , the density of the solvent ) , it was found that they differed considerably from those measured directly .
For instance , the two values of osmotic pressure of a solution of cane sugar in water\mdash ; Of 280 grammes to the litre differed by about 5 per cent. It was thought , at first , that these pancies were due to some error in the vapour pressure method , and numerous experiments , previous to those given in the second table , but not bulated , were carried out to throw light on the subject .
Eventually Equation ( 1 ) was exalnined more closely .
As this tion led to a result which does not seem to be generally known , we take the opportunity of drawing attention to the subject .
This we do the more readily , in that Mr. Spens has come independently to a similar conclusion* by starting from a differe1lt point of view .
It is necessary to recapitulate briefly part of the reasoning by which Equation ( 1 ) is derived .
In fig. 10 , is a vessel closed at the lower end by a semi-permeable membrane , , and filled with a ] ution to a height BA the solvent , , such that the vapour pressures of the solvent and solution are in equilibrium at A. If be density of the solution its vapoul pressure , the vapour pressure of the solvent at , and the osmotic pressure ; then , by considering the { xbout the nelnbl a , it is easy to see that ( where ) .
See paper ] ished infra .
1905 .
] of the Osmotic Pressures of Solutio , .
167 But is very small compared to the osmotic of a solution , and can therefore be neglected ; then .
( 2 ) It is evident that this relation is true only when the density and concentration are the same the column AB .
A 30-per-cent .
solution of FIG. 10 .
FIG. 11 .
in water would be in equilibrium when standing in a column some yards .
In a long such as this , there is no reason for supposing that the density and concentration are constant throughout .
In fact , it is to show that a diff'erence in concentration , and therefore a difference in density , must take place .
Thus in fig. ll let the lettering have the same signification as in fig. 10 ; the only difference in the two rures is that the tube is prolonged downwards and the membrane is below the surface of the solvent .
If we assume that the density of the solution is higher than that of the solvent , then the hydrostatic pressure on is in this case greater than in fig. 10 , by an amount , where and are the densities of the solution and solvent respectively .
It follows that the osmotic pressure at , in fig. 11 , is greater than that at in fig. 10 , and the only cause which can produce this is a difference of concentration at the two points .
Van Calcar and De have shown that solutions can be concentrated by centrifugalisation ; the force of gravity acting on the solute molecules would of course produce a similar effect .
Be this as it may , if regard it as proved that the density and concentration of the solution at the top and at the bottom of the colu1nn arc * ' Rec .
Trav .
Chem. Leiden , ' vol. 23 , pp. 218\mdash ; 223 , 1903 .
Earl of Berkeley and Mr. E. G. J. Hartley .
[ Nov. 11 , not the , then Equation ( 2 ) will only be true if we substitute for , the averaged density between the limits and , where and are the densities at the top and bottom of the ) will then be the osmotic pressure at the bottom of the column in A direct measurement of osmotic pressure evidently gives the osmotic corresponding to the concentration at the top of the column , it is therefore necessary to obtain an equation thi with the same pressure derived b.y way of the vapour pressures .
The following investigation gives the required relation:\mdash ; Consider fig. 11.\mdash ; If another semipermeable membrane be opened at the equilibrium will not be disturbed , otherwise perpetual motion would result .
If denote the osmotic at , and the height above , then , from a consideration of the hydrostatic equilibrium of the column pressure of column BR of solution press .
col .
BR of solvent , .
( i ) But the hydrostatic equilibrium up to A -pressure of column AC of vapour .
( ii ) By a process similar to ( i ) Substituting in ( ii ) vapour pressure of column of vapour .
( iii ) It will have been noticed tJJat our experimental results differ from one another about 5 per cent. The pressure of the column CA of vapoul is cvidently negligible compal.ed with the osmotic p1essurcs we are ; and , as compared with the errors , the of the solvcnt , water ; and the in the force of ravity due to height above level , are also ) Equation ( iii ) efore be replaced by The only change in Equation ( 2 ) , and thelefole in Equation ( 1 ) , necessary to give the at the top of the column is the substitn1905 .
] of the Osmotic Pressures of .
169 tion of the density of the solvent in place of the density of the solution .
On this correction it was found that the osmotic pressures derived from our vapour-pressure measurements and those observed directly , reed to within 5 per cent. This communication should be rded partly in the crht of a preliminary paper .
It is published now , because we think the limited number of experiments are sufficient to establish the primary object we had in view , namely , to prove the method we have adopted for the direct determination of osmotic pressures .
We learll fro1n a reference in Scienc that Profcssor recently read paper before tho American Chetllical Society describing what appears to be a nnmic method sinlilar to ours .
The various precautions taken have been described at some , because we think that successful results can only be obtained by attention to the details of the .
We are glad to have this tunity of thanking Mr. ) for the kindly interest he has taken in the work .
' ' On a New Dynamic Method of Measuring of ' ' July 21 , 1905 .

