1873 .
] Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Just Intonation in .
131 place them beneath the same bell-jar , it will be found that the first fluid remains clear and free from Bacteria for an indefinite period , whilst the second invariably becomes turbid in one 01 two days .
What is the explanation of these discordant results ?
We have a right to infer that all preexisting life has been destroyed in each of the fluids* ; we have proved also that such fluids are not usually infected by Bacteria derived from the air ; in this very case , in fact , the putrescible saline fluid remains pure , although the organic infusion standing by its side rapidly putrifies .
We can only infer , therefore , that whilst the boiled saline solution is quite incapable of engendering + , such organisms are able to arise cle novo in the boiled organic infusion .
Although this inference may be legitimately drawn from such experiments as I have here referred to , fortunately it is confirmed and strengthened by the labours of many investigators who have worked under the influence of much more stringent conditions , and in which closed vessels of various kinds have been employed + .
Whilst we may therefore infer ( 1 ) that the putrefaction which occurs in many previously boiled fluids when exposed to the air is not due to a contamination by germs derived from the atmosphere , we have also the same right to conclude ( 2 ) that in many cases the first organisms which appear in such fluids have arisen de novo , rather than by any process ot reproduction from preexisting forms of life .
Admitting , therefore , that Bacteria are ferments capable ot initiating putrefactive changes , I am a firm believer also in the existence of not-livin\lt ; T ferments under the influence of which putrefactive changes may be initiated in certain fluids-changes which are almost invariably accompanied by a new birth of living particles capable of rapidly developing into Bacteria .
XX .
" On Just Intonation in Music ; with a description of a new Instrument for the easy control of all Systems of Tuning other than the ordinary equal Temperament .
" By R. H. M. Bosanquet , Fellow of St. John 's College , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor H. J. S. Smith , F.R.S. , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford .
( Abstract .
) The object of this communication is to place the improved systems of * rTan 1873 1_____In The Beginnings of Life , ' vol. i. p. 332 , note 1,1 hare cited to :crrr.t.r ^ Pw l in 'Nature,.J\#171 ; nM\gt ; y9th .
132 Mr. J. A. Phillips on the Composition and [ Jan. 30 tuning within the reach of ordinary musicians ; for this purpose the theory and practice are reduced to their simplest forms .
A notation is described , adapted to use with ordinary written music by which the notes to be performed are clearly distinguished .
The design of a key-board is described , by which any system of tuning , except the ordinary equal temperament , can be controlled , if only the fifths of the system be all equal .
The design is on a symmetrical principle , so that all passages and combinations of notes are performed with the same handling , in whatever key they occur .
The theory of the construction of scales is then developed , and a diagram is given , from which the characteristics of any required system can be ascertained by inspection .
An account is then given of the application of such systems to the new key-board , and particularly of an harmonium which has been constructed and contains at present the division of the octave into fifty-three equal intervals in a complete form .
Buies for tuning are given .
Finally , the application of the system of fifty-three to the violin is discussed .
t Throughout the work of former labourers in the same field is reviewed : the obligations of the writer are due to Helmholtz , the late General T. Perronet Thompson , F.R.S. , and others .
III .
" On the Composition and Origin of the Waters of a Salt Spring in Huel Seton Mine , with a Chemical and Microscopical examination of certain Rocks in its vicinity/ '* IIy J. Arthur Phillips , Mem. Inst. C.E. Communicated hy Professor Ramsay , F.R.S. Received December 12 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) Huel Seton Copper-Mine is situated about one mile north-east of the town of Camborne , Cornwall , and is distant from the sea , on the north coast , a little more than three miles .
The workings of Huel Seton are entirely in " killas , " or clay-slate , and the saline waters issue at the rate of 50 gallons per minute , and at a temperature of 92 ' F. , from the eastern fore breast of the 160-fathom level .
This has intersected a fault , or cross course , which may be traced in a noitherly direction to the sea .
The temperature of the level from the end of which the water issues , like that of the water itself , is 92 ' F. The following results , in grammes per litre and grains per gallon , were obtained by analysis .
Sp. gr. 1-0123 .
Total solid contents 14-3658 grammes per litre,.or 1005-61 grains per gallon .

