]\gt ; 1873 .
] Mr. Greville Williams on Emeratds and Beryls .
XV .
' Researches on Emeralds and Beryls.\mdash ; Part I. On the Colouring-matter of the merald.\ldquo ; By GREVILLE WILLIAMS , F.R.S. Rcceived May 9 , 1873 .
A considerable mount of discussion has taken phce at vnrious times regarding the cause of the colour of the emer Klnprofh clcluded from his ] llalyses that it to iro ; but the results of his later after he became aware of Vauquelin 's of the presence of chromium in emeralds , confirmed the observations of that chenlist .
the time of Vauquelin 's analyses , the colour of the emerald was always rded as due to the presence of oxide of chromium , until the publicatiou of the memoir of LewyS , who , having burnt emeralds in oxygen pparatus to that employed by M. Dumns in his researches atomic weight of ) , ascertained that they contained that element , concluded the colour was due to the preseJlce of some organic ) stance .
affirmed th the lted emeralds the most carbon .
The quantity of chromium ( A)ntained in he considered to be to account for the colour .
and Rose on the other hand , having exposed to a tentperaturc to the fusing-point of copper for ono hour ithout thPir losing also having fused colourless glnss with ninufc qnanfitieB of oxide of chromium and obtained a finc greell glass , dered chromium and not matter to be the of the colour .
Boussinganlt , in the of vntion of the " " ] ] arrived at { saJnc c although mitting } that it cause of colonr , lred l to for hour ithof sult hfirnled by found cmcrald ndnred a for without destruc.tion of the colour , this ] to arise from the of th } ] oflbe stollc .
carefully repeated and c. The ployed orc nnutillos from do they mc lucs v ere deter]( of { lIeir ) roth , , vol. .
( Lond , 1801 ) .
Klaprotl ) , .
vol. .
p. . .
dc .
S .
p. 877 .
Chcm .
New , vol. Rcndus , vol. lxix .
p. 1249 ( ISC9 ) .
emcralds from mines of Granada divided , according to Boussinault , inlo classcs , two of most important being hc canutillos or finely orystalized , and " " 1norallons or amorphons cmeralds .
Jourll .
fiir prakt .
Chem. vol. lxxvi .
p. 1 .
410 Mr. Greville Williams on Emeralds and Beryts .
gravity of Emeralds ( Canulillos ) before fusion .
The formula used was where is the weight in air , the weight in the specific gravity of water at the temperature of the water , the specific gravity .
1873 .
] Mr. Grevillc Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
tube ) ; this form of -tube employed this he other experiments to be described furthel on , as it enables the operator to whether carbonic ttnhydride is all bsorbed in the first bulb .
carefully puriiied oxygen lvas allowed to stream through the lime-water for half an hour to prove its freedom from carbonic anhydride .
of hnt time there was no trace of turbidity .
The beryl was then to redness , and in a few seeonds the in the first bulb of the potash-apparatus became milky .
Thus not only proving the presence of carbon colourless beryl , but , taken in con- ntive dtions , ving conclusively that the depth of is not , this chss of stones , in the ratio of the amount of present .
tion had been ined of the prese1lce of carbon the beryl , it still possible that it might have been deri ) from the decomposifion of a carbonate .
To settle this questi , -n , I all in the nnel :\mdash ; A current of air a gas-holder was sent in the ection indicated by the ( see p. 4 ] 3 ) ; it ssed t a solution of potassium hydrate in A and B. { hree-necked bottle ontained lvater , freshly prepared and perfectly clear .
The tlrrent o then passed iuto the three- necked , colltaiming 3 grms. of beryl , finely levigated in an orfar , and ered bout one inch with pure distilled water .
The flask was cmpty , served to arrest thing which might have spirfed ol er .
) filled to the height indicated with lin)e- ] ate ) coutained concentrated sulphuric acid .
The ngement being comT ) , a current of air was sent through for hadf { hour ; not ] ight tTtlrl ) in or ; tho ollscquently force from carbouic nhydridc .
freedom from any olher had been iously determined by ding it mixed , first into red-hot combustion-tube , and then iuto a ) iously eighed .
After passage of the gas for an houl , the ) -apparatus eighed and to be absolutely ltcl. .
The purity of the employed having thus been rig$ lie , the stopcock of the pipctte turned , and admilled until the in latter had beconlG htill ) idity ns observed in F. The fluid in boiled 11 ith sillc resuIt .
It ident , therefore , that the cnrbon beryl ) as not cd the decomposition of a carl ) .
The stoppcr ) grms. of pure of ssium added ; there as still no ) iu for utes , dnring time the fluid in gently ] .
Af the end of } time a oudiness began to ) ) in he first ) of , and after hour in the second bulb : decided precipitate } obtained ; it was collected , washed , on ndysis p to rbonate of calcium .
The expeMr .
Greville Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
; riment was in a modified manner several times .
It been found that a faint turbidity in the lime-water was sometimes ok tained before the addition of the beryl , it was traced to the presence minute quantities of organic matter in the chromate and sulphunc To eliminate this source of error , the chromate and acid were mixed the commencement of the operation , and the current of air was kept until every trace of carbonic anhydride was removed ; at this point ffi6 beryl was added , and the effect noted .
The results , both with or the beryl , were , however , always precisely the same .
The apparatus was then recharged , and when half an hour 's passage of the air produced no milkiness in , 5 milligrammes of charcoal were introduced into ; in two minutes the first bulb , and in four minutes all the bulbs were rendered milky .
In another experiment , after the usual precautions , 5 ] of graphite were acted on .
In four minutes the first bulb , and in eight minutes all three bulbs were rendered milky .
The above experiments show , therefore , that the beryl A contains carbon , not in the state of a carbonate , but im a condition which is more slowly attacked than either free charcoal or graphite ; and it is , I think .
probably in the form of diamond , as has been shown to occur with t4 carbon contaiJled in artificially crystallized boron* .
The power of chromic acid to attack the diamond with liberation of carbonic acid ham been shown by the Messrs. Bodgers The presence of carbon in beryls does not appear to be invariable .
After repeated experiments upon another large beryl from Haddan County , North America , I was unable to satisfy myself that it contained carbon .
It is true that traces were found in the experiment ; but they were so minute that they might have been due to the difficulty of exoluding the presence of organic dust during the necessary manipu The next point I wished to ascertain was the relation borne by quantity of carbon in the beryl A to that in the emerald .
For purpose I employed a similar apparatus to that used by Dumas in hil researches on the atomic weight of carbon previously alluded to .
T4 minute error due to the apparatus was carefully determined by through the whole process of heating the combustion-tube to redness the same time as in the analysis , the current of oxygen passing throughl the same speed , and finally replacing the oxygen in the system of by a current of pure dry air .
No appreciable error was found to * Wohler and Sainte-Claire Devillo , Comptes Rendus , February 16 , 1867 .
R. E. Rodgers and W. B. , Chem. Gaz .
vol. .
p. 356 ( 1848 ) .
Topaz in the Sands of Hydraulic hings in Californi chem .
News , vol. Mr. Greville Williams on EmeraTds and Beryls .
414 .
Greville Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
the carbon determination , but a correction had to be applied to the , hydrogen .
The necessity for minute precaution will be evident wheu it is considered that 1 grm. of beryl , or emerald , only yielded 3 grammes of carbonic anhydride .
Estimation of Carbon and Hydrogen in Peruvian Emeratd and Beryl A. I. .
beryl A gave ) carbonic anhydride and water .
IL , , , , , , , , , , III .
, , emerald , , , , , , , per cent.:\mdash ; Beryl A. Lewy 's Emerald .
Emerald I. IL ( mean ) .
Carbonic anhydride Water In working on such minute quantities , it is not easy to speak with certainty as to the proportion of hydrogen contained in emeralds and beryls which is not due to the water present ; and the difficulty is increased by the fact , insisted upon by BoussingauIt* , that these stones do not give ofl all their water below a red at .
If it be considered permissible , which I cannot admit , to calculate the hydrogen on the principle of deducting the water found om ignition in a crucible from that formed during the combustion in oxygen , and then calculating the percentage of hydrogen on the difference , as Lewy has done , the resuIts would be as follows:\mdash ; Beryl A. Lewy 's ( mean ) .
Emerald .
Emerald Carbon Hydrogen The smallness of the values ined , and even the very fact of theil cIose approximation , make me ofler them with a certain amount of reserve , amd I shall endeavour to repeat tbem upon much larger quantities as soon as I have found a method of avoiding all possible sources of error .
I have not insertedthe numbers given by Boussingault , ffl there ppears to be some mistake in them .
He found per cent. of carbon in the , and yet says that this number agrees with two of determinations , one of which ( he says ) gave , and another ; whereas I find , on reference to Lewy 's memoir , that that chemist obtained in the two experiments to and , not of carbon , but carbonic anhydride .
As it was possible that some of the carbon found in these experimentl might have been derived from the steel mortar used in the prehmin 1873 .
] Mr. Grcville Williams on Emeralds and ls .
ing of the beryls , I pulverised some in a porcelain mortar , every precnution I could devise being taken to prevent contact of mntter .
On lrning i , and passing the products of the , a copious precipitate of rbonate of calcium ined .
ON T11E ErFECTS 0F FUSTON UP0N EMERALDS AND BERYLS .
On the Effects ) Opaque ordel to study the effects of ion upon beryls or emelalds , I found it to use the blowpipc .
and emeralds were mongst the nulnerous snces f ith fhis by .
fl stntes the beryl fuses to a clear glass bubl ) he to melt sily to l.otnd , remely beautiful from ; it lost its grcell colotlr , and became hite pphire .
My ere mado upon the beryl ; it grlns .
, nud its dellsity akell ith great cnre ious to fusion .
In the first expcriment the } hole crystal 11 as suspellded from the balance-pan , and eighed ater ; in the second fragments ere in a Regnault 's flask the precautions .
alues obtaiued vere as follows:\mdash ; ordelcforily to submit beryls fo of the , it to find } pport C of endnriIIg the high }ilhout ay too ) idly , containing to ho les]lts .
After I selected of care to nsccrtaiu that vere { ) the Some very rendily , yield too to permit of their being employed pipe of the ceplion of of ibrcs to it to differenl tities of to be expel.imellted up llceds 1 scription .
These llozz]cs supply the ould bc )vell formed , free from irregulnxities .
Instend of drogen , gas gellerally ] oyed , I ]lot , for the purposes *Scbwciggol. 's Journ. vol. xviii .
p. 237 .
416 Mr. Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
[ June 1873 .
] Mr. Greville Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
rior to that of the emerald .
The green beads may , by an intense and prolonged heat , be reudered colourless .
With cobalt oxide the beads aiford beautiful blue glasses of any desired shade ; and in all cases the resuIts are the same as with the artificial mixture of beryl ingredients to be described further on .
The effect of fusion upon the beryl is to lessen the hardness and lower the specific gravity .
The globules may be scratched by quartz .
The following numbers were obtained in a determination of the specific of Bor'f A after The , therefore , lost nine per cent. of their density in passing from the crystline to the vitreous state .
desirous of carefully comparing this loss of density undergone by beryls with that of rock-crystal fused under the same circumstances .
ding to experiment quoted by Forbes* , the specific gravity of quartz of umdoubted origin , and also that from granites , is and thnt of -crystal , fused before the oxyhydrogen blowpipe to an glabs , .
According to the experiment of Le Boyer and Dumas , the specific gravity of determined at vacuo was .
The found by the Austrian Commission was I have repeated with great care the deterlninatiou of the specific gravity of , both before and after fusion , with the annexed results:\mdash ; Specifc of Roch-cr ?
ystal before fi The above number is practically identical with those of Le Royer Dumas and the Austrian .
Rock-crystal fuses very readily before the oxyhydrogen blowpipe , and , if care be taken , the beads ob- tained are beautifully clear and free from bubbles .
* Chem. So .
Journ. , new series , vol. .
p. Gmelin 's Handbook of Chemistry , ' vol. iu .
p. Ueber das Verhaltniss des Bergkrystall-Kilogrammes zum Kilogramme der K. Archive zu Paris ( Wien , 1870 ) .
I am indebted to Prof. W. H. Miller for this re- 418 Mr. Greville Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
Specific Gravity of Rock-crystal after fusion .
Mean Rock-crystal loses , therefore , no less than seventeen per .
of its specific gravity on passing from the crystalline to the rphous state , or about a half per cent. less is undergone by garnets , ording to the observations of Magnus ; whereas the beryl A only lost nine per cent. , or little more than half as much .
On the Effects of Fusion upon Emera:lds.\mdash ; On heating alone fore the oxyhydrogen blowpipe these emeralds bear a bright red heat without losing their colour ; and at a heat which causes incipient fusion , the edges turm colourless and opaque , while the centre remains green .
After fusion short time they yield an opalescent greenish glass , which , kept for a time the maximum temperature of the blowpipe , becomes quitetransp\amp ; rent and almost colourless .
The addition of chromic oxide causes the b4 to become of adull green colour , which is not improved by moderate The fact that emeralds endure a temperature capable of fusing the edgem without the centre losing colour , appears conclusive against the idea of he colouring-matter being organic .
The beads produced by the of emeralds resemble those formed in the same manner from beryls ; tb phenomena during the fusion are also nearly alike ; but it takes longa and a higher temperature to produce a colourless transparent bead with emeralds than with colourless beryls .
The beads can be scratched by quartz , and the density is reduced to the same extent as with the beryl .
Specific Gravity of Emeralds ( Canutillos ) after fusion .
1873 .
] Mr. Greville Williams on Emeralds and Beryls . .
The A from lreland transparent yeHow crystal , the locality of which is doubtful , gave , or cfly the same as emernlds from , Fe .
On the Eff(jcts of an Artificial ) of } } \mdash ; Being desirous of trying the effects of fusion 1l artificinl mixtnre of osilion as that of a beryl , I made a series of careful analyses of the beryl A. The results of these lyses h led me to a laborious of the processes plesent use for tion of from cina .
The study of the original carbonate-ofammouia process of , and fions of ltose , Joy , Hofmeister , others , has we months of constant orlc ; but even my itrlicl avscs ebled me to sufficiently close nrol tion to the ) ) ) of the A. the proportions :\mdash ; lmina I did any iron or nesi , as I them as lenfal impurities varying in amount .
mixlure of the above composition is exposed to the flame of the oxyhydrogeu )pipe , it fuses with almost exnctly the phenomena the tural beryl .
It is , howcver , as might be Lllticipated from the absence of iron and chrolnium , much sier to get a eolourless transparent bead the mixture ) eithel emeralds or The greatebt difficulty this respect is , of The specific gravity of the fused globules was determined the following result : \mdash ; of Artificial ) or almost exactly the as the dellsity of nave nlds bervls after Whcn a f$:ll portion of chronic o1idc is to ture tho is subjected to fusion , the is of rich yellowish green , and in many experiments to hc cmerald tint ; bnt , as a rule , the colour more of a faded -grcen ; ] I have never a globule of the vivid tint of a emernld , the glasses , when well cut , are quito beautiful enough to as vcls .
420 Mr. Greville Williams on Emeralds and Beryls .
June : Prolonged heating gradually diminishes the colour , the bead gradually becoming of the palest bottle-green , and , finally , nearly colourless .
result is the same as with the emerald .
The metallic oxide which yields the finest tints when fused with opaque beryls , or the artificial mixture , is that of cobalt .
The manner in which this oxide withstands the intense heat of the oxyhydrogen flamo is remarkable .
All tints , from nearly black to that of the palest can be obtained , and the resulting glasses , when cut , are extremely tiful , and have almost the lustre of crystallized gems .
The globules obtained by fusing the artificial mixture of beryl dients with didymium oxide show the characteristic absorption-spectrum of that metal in a very perfect manner , the lines being intensely black .
Even when the bead is quite opalescent from insufficient heating , the black lines are beautifully distinct in the spectroscope .
With a large quantity of didymium oxide the beads are of a lively pink , becoming more tense by artificial light , and , when cut , form very pretty gems .
The presence of didymium in sufficient quantity raises the specific gravity .
ecific Gof Art ficial Amorphous Beryls containing Didymium .
the resulting number being almost as high as that of the emerald before fusion .
Conclusions.\mdash ; The evidence given in this , showing that colourless beryls may contain as much carbon as the richest-tinted emerald , taken conjunction with the ignilion experiments , and the results of the fusion of chromic oxide with colourless beryls and with an artificial mixture of the same composition , leaves me no room to doubt the correctness of Vau 's conclusion , that the green colour of the emerald is due to presence of chromic oxide .
The fact that emeralds and beryls lose density when fused ot properly be cited as proving that they have been made in nature at a low temperature ; for it is quite possible that they were crystallized out of solution in a fused mass , originally formed at a temperature high enoug to keep the constituents of the emerald in a state of fusion , and that crystals developed themselves during a slow process of cooling or tion .
The method employed by Ebelmen*for the artificial product on chrysoberyl , namely heating , glucina , and carbonate of calcium itb boracic acid in a porcelain furnace until a portion of the mens truum evaporated , yielded crystals of the true specific gravity , showin * Ann. Chim .
Phys. [ 3 ] vol. xxii .
p. 223 ( 1848 ) ; vol. xxxiii .
p. 40(1851 ) 1873 .
Mr. evillc Williams on Emeralds and ls .
density of minelals to be less dependent on the temperature which they are produ than upon their crystalline or amorphous state .
One gem ( the ruby ) has undoubtedly beeu produced in nature at a high tempernture .
I have fi.equently repented Gatldin experiment the artificial formation of this stole , and can confirm most of his results .
I did not , however , find the density to be quite the same as the lmtive ruby or sapphire , which is , in different specimens , from to ) .
Artific.ial rubies of the finest colour made by me by Gaudin 's ocess had a specific gl.avity of , which is not three per cent. lo1ver than that of the .
The reason for this lose n tion will the fact thnt fused alnmina cooling .
The cryst lization , ever , is confused and , which the product to be only partially transparent , and to have a slightly er specific gravity than the natural gem .
It is , COllsequent ] scarcely coJlect to call the fused stones by 's process " " artificial rubies I convineed llyself that l.ubies have been formed in llatul .
at a nperature e , or nearly , to that of $.he of iIla , from the circumstance that the renction betweeIl chromic id and alumina , which rults iu the development of the red oolour of the gem , is not elfccted at low or even moderately high temperatures , but l.equires a heat high as that of the oxyhydrogeu vpipe .
It is llof necessnry that the should be preseuted to the he form of chromic .
It ) ears , therefore , thnt red colonr of the ruby is not used by the ) resence of chromic ; it is , fnct , sui and ) , riments ha gone , only place at very elevnted tptnres .
In my next communication I propose to esnlts of tive study of two of the processes for the analysis of emeralds , beryls , and other erals c and , the -alnmonia ) rocess of quelin , the .-potash method devised by the same chelllist , ) utlnodified by , and iated with his .
These studies already far dvanced .
of varions beryl , cut this paper . .
Pharm. vol. xxiii .
] ) .

