X. An Account of some Electrical Experiments made at his ROYALHIGHNESS the PRINCE of WALE S'S House at Cliefden , on Tuesday the 15th of April 1738 .
where the Electricity was conveyed 420 Feet in a direct Line .
By the Same .
HAVING heard that Electricity had been carried along an hempen String five or six hundred Foot long , but having only seen it when the String was carried backwards and forwards in a Room by Silk Supporters , I was willing to try it with a Packthread String stretched out at full Length ; for which Purpose having joined a Cat-gut String of six Foot long , I fastened it to the Inside of the Door in the Suite of Rooms at Cliefden ; and having also tied another Cat-gut , like the first , to the other End of the String , I tied it up to the Inside of the Door at the other End of the House ; but at the Place where the Packthread was joined to the Cat-gut , I left a Foot and an half of Packthread hanging down , and fastened to it a Lignum Vitae Handle of a BurningGlass .
Then applying a rubbed Tube at the other End of the String , I made the Electricity run to the Lignum Vitae , but with some Difficulty , which I attributed to the Size , being an animal Substance that still stuck to the Packthread as it was new ; therefore I caus 'd the Packthread to be wet with a Sponge from one End to the other , to wash off the Size : Then was the Electricity from the Tube communicated very soon and very strongly ; for the Thread of Trial ( mentioned in my former Papers ) was drawn by the Lignum Vitae at the Distance of a Foot .
Afterwards having joined more Packthread together , I made a String of four hundred and twenty Foot long , one End of which I fastened ( by the Interposition of Cat-gut as before ) to the Iron Gates in the Garden , before the House , and the End which had the Lignum Vitae Handle , to the upper Part of the Door next to the Back-side of the House in a large DrawingRoom , taking care that the String came through the middle of the opened Doors through which it passed ; and to prevent this String dragging upon the Ground , three Pieces of Cat-gut held across by two Men , at equal Distances from the Ends , and from each other , supported it .
The String was altogether dipped in a Pail of Water , before the Experiment ; but great Care taken , that the Cat-gut should not be wet .
Then I applied the rubbed Tube at the End in the Garden , whilst my Assistant held the Thread of Trial near the Handle above-mention 'd , which Thread was strongly attracted , though the Wind was very high , and blow 'd in the contrary Direction to that in which the Electricity ran along .
I first tried the Experiment with the Packthread dry , but then it would not do at that Distance .
N. B. The Weather was moist when I made the Experiment .

