Experiments and Observations on the Development of Magnetical Properties in Steel and Iron by Percussion:-Part II .
By William Scoresby , Jun. F.R.S.E. &amp;c. Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. Pres. R.S. Read January 29 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 197 .
] After adverting to the general results of his former inquiries , the author observes that his principal objects on the present occasion were to endeavour , by auxiliary rods of iron , to increase the degree of magnetism ; and to ascertain on what circumstances , as to the magnitude of the iron rods , and the quality , size , and temper of the steel wires , the utmost success of the method depends .
He formerly used a single iron rod , upon which the steel bars were hammered , both being in a vertical position .
He now places the steel wire between two rods of iron , and subjecting it , through the medium of the upper rod , to percussion , derives the advantage of the magnetism of both rods of iron acting at the same time upon both its poles .
The rods he used were of the respective lengths of three and one foot , and an inch diameter ; and the upper end of the larger rod and the lower one of the smaller rod were made conical , there being an indentation in each to receive the ends of the steel wire .
Some magnetism was then elicited by percussion in the larger rod , and the steel wire being properly placed between its upper extremity and the lower one of the small rod , the upper end of the latter was hammered , and magnetism thus communicated to the wire ; whilst the lower rod , receiving some influence from the percussion , performed a similar office .
The author calls this mode of proceeding , the comn pound process , to distinguish it from the mere hammering of the wire upon the rod , as practised by him formerly , and which he terms the simple process .
He then enters into extended details of his several experiments , of which the following are the principal results : first , that the compound process is more effectual in the production of magnetism than the simple one , though the ratio of augmentation does not appear determinate .
In one experiment , the maximum effect of the simple process was an attractive force capable of lifting between 186 and 246 grains , while the compound process augmented the lifting power to 326 grains .
In another , the simple process gave a lifting power of 246 grains , the compound of 345 grains .
Moreover , the efficacy of the compound process is much less manifest upon long than short wires , and is greatly impaired by diminishing the size of the rods .
In respect to the influence of the temper of the wire upon the degree of magnetism developed , Mr. Scoresby found that the softer the wire the more susceptible it became of this magnetic condition .
The author concludes this paper with some theoretical remarks respecting the influence of percussion in disposing the particles of iron to acquire and retain magnetism , which he thinlks may tend to explain some otherwise obscure phenomena ; and which seem to render it probable that the process of percussion may be applied , in connexion with other-modes of magnetizing , for giving iincreased power to maglets .

