]\gt ; The Capacity Coefficients of Spherical Conductors .
By ALEXANDER , D.Sc .
, M.I.E. ( Communicated by Dr. C. Chree , F.R.S. Received January 5 , 1920 .
) Maxwell* pointed out that the self-capacity coefficient of a conductor is numerically equal to its charge when its potential is unity and all neighbour- ing conductors are at zero potential .
He considered that the " " proper definition of the capacity of a conductor is to define it as being equal to the self-capacity coefficient .
Adopting this definition , we may consider that the self-capacity coefficient is the capacity of the condenser formed by the conductor , on the one side , and , on the other side , all neighbouring conductors connected with the earth .
This gives a simple physical meaning to the selfcapacity coefficient , and in one or two simple cases it enables us to compute its value .
In the case of a spherical conductor , however , we can give an equally simple way of regarding it , which leads to easier methods of computing its value .
As a knowledge of the self-capacity coefficients of spheres is essential in certain practical problems , for instance , when computing the electric stress at which a spark will occur between unequal spherical electrodes when the dielectric between them is at a given temperature and pressure , simplified methods of finding their values are useful .
It is proved below that the self-capacity coefficient of a spherical conductor equals its radius ether with the capacity of the condenser formed between the surface of the sphere and the images in the sphere of all external conductors , including the earth connected in parallel .
Many of the formulae givon by the author in his are connected by very simple relations .
For brevity , we shall refer to these papers as X and respectively .
The approximate formula iven in for spherical condensers can be usefully employed for computing the capacity coefficients for external spheres , and , conversely , we can use the tables given by Kelvin and in X , p. 529 , for computing the values of capacities of spherical condensers .
The relations show that in many cases the values of the coefficients and capacities can be written down almost at once without even using logarithmic tables .
We shall also show that the theorem can be applied to simplifying the problem of finding the capacity between a sphere and large 'Electricity and Magnetism , ' , S87 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 82 , p. 524 ; vol. 94 , p. 206 .
Kelvin , Reprint , p. 96 .
The Coefficients .
of Spherical Conductors .
distant conductors or of finding the capacity between a small sphere placed in a large cavity of given shape in a conductor .
eneral Theorem .
If a conducting sphere ( fig. 1 ) be in the presence of a conductor , and FIG. and are the images of and the Earth .
if the earth be at a considerable distance away from the sphere , then the self-capacity coefficient of A is given by , ( 1 ) where is the radius of the sphere , and is the capacity between the image of in the sphere and the surface of the sphere .
To prove this , let be the earth , supposed an infinite plane , and let and be joined in parallel .
The potential of will be zero .
Let a charge be given to A. There will be induced charges on and E. Let and be the inverse surfaces of and with regard to the sphere .
Then , by the theory of inversion* , a certain charge on and will , when and are removed , produce with the same potential at the surface of the sphere A as the actual distribution does .
If be the capacity between and in parallel and the surface of the sphere , we have .
The quantity of electricity on the inside of the surface of A will be Therefore there will be a charge on the outer surface , and since and are removed , we have the sphere A in infinite space , and so for the capacity of the sphere is Hence But since is zero we have , and hence .
( 1A ) J. J. Thomson , ' Electricity and Magnetism , ' 4th ed. , p. 180 .
Dr. A. Russell .
If the earth be at a considerable away , the sphere will be very minute .
Its capacity will , therefore , be negligibly small .
Hence , in this case , is simply the capacity between and , which proves the theorem .
It is obvious that this theorem applies when there are any number of conductors like in the neighbourhood of the sphere .
The condenser is formed on the one side by all their images connected in parallel , and on the other , by the surface of the sphere .
We see at once that the self-capacity coefficient of a sphere is always greater than radius , and that it is Yery large when any of the conductors are close to it .
When forms a continuous conductor entirely enclosing , we know that the capacity between A and .
Thus , if be the capacity between a sphere and a conductor entirely surrounding it , and be the capac.ity between the surface of the sphere and the ( or inverse ) of the surrounding surface in the sphere , we always have .
( 2 ) The Capacity Coefficients of Spheres .
In the following investigation it is found convenient to denote the capacity coefficients , and of a system of two spheres by , snd respectively , where and are the radii of the spheres and is the distance between their centres , eing greater than .
We shall also denote the capacity of a condenser formed by an outer sphere of radius , and an inner sphere of radius by , where is the distance between their centres .
It is to be noticed that must be greater than , but can be greater or less than .
We also have and Maxwell 's formulae for the self-capacity coefficients of a system of two spheres can be readily proved and ( 2 ) .
We shall give the proof in full as the steps give relations useful in computation .
In order to bring out clearly the relations between the various systems of condensers considered in this theorem , we shall use the functions and used in X and .
Their definitions are as follows:\mdash ; External Spheres .
Internal Spheres .
, ( I ) ( II ) *Kelvin , Reprint , p. 93 .
'Electricity and Magnetism , ' vol. 1 , S173 .
The Capacity Coefficients of Spherical Conductors .
We also have , We also have , External Spheres .
Internal Spheres .
' , ( III ) and where and are the radii of the orthogonal spheres .
Let us consider two spheres of radii and I , espectively ( fig. 2 ) .
Let be the image of in the sphere A. Then by ( 1 ) , ( 3 ) where* , and .
( V ) FIG. 2 .
FIG. 3 .
FIO .
capacity between A and FIG. 3.\mdash ; The capacity between A and radius of plus the capacity between and Lt us now invert the sphere A with respect to the sphere , and let the image be ( fig. 3 ) , we get by ( 2 ) , ( 4 ) wlIere , and .
( VI ) We then invert with respect to and so on .
Thus , adding up the equations ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) we get , ( 5 ) and by adding up the same equations , beginning with ( 4 ) we get .
( 6 ) Substituting in ( II ) for and , their values from ( V ) , we J. J. Thomson , ibid. , p. 177 .
Dr. A. Russell .
Hence .
Similarly , and since , we get .
We also have , and thus In the same way we find that , and therefore , Hence also , etc. Therefore Hence substituting in ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) we get , ( 7 ) and .
( 8 ) Formula ( 7 ) is Maxwell 's mooLification of Kelvin 's formula , *and(8 ) agrees with ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of Since we have , ( 9 ) and lt , ( 10 ) the equations ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) may be written in the form , ( 11 ) .
Note that , and in this formula differ from the , and in formula .
We have also , ( 12 ) In general we can write , when .
is greater than unity , ( 13 ) where ; : and .
( VII ) * Kelvin , Reprint , p. 93 .
The Coefficients of Sph From formula ( 28 ) given below , it will be seen that when can be neglected compared with unity , we can write , ( 14 ) which is the formula for a concentric spherical condenser .
From ( VII ) also we have Hence , except when is very small , in which case the spheres are very close together and the other simpler formulae iven in X and become applicable , we do not need to to a high value of before we can use ( 14 ) .
The equations ( 11 ) and ( 12 ) can also be written in the inverse form ( 15 ) and .
( 16 ) The Mutual Coefficient .
It is more difficult to prove by this method Kelvin 's formula for the mutual coefficient which Maxwell oives in the form .
( 17 ) It is easy , however , to express its alue in terms of the capacity of a spherical condenser .
We see from ( 17 ) that the mutual coefficient has a constant value for all the families of spheres which have the same and .
Let us consider the member of the family for which the radius of is infinite ( fig. 4 ) .
In this case , and therefore the radius of the sphere in fig. 4 is given by FIQ .
equals the radius of plus the capacity between and We see by the formula for given iu ( II ) that the distance of the centre of the sphere A from the plane is , that is , Dr. A. Russell .
As a system consisting of a plane and a sphere is the limiting case of a spherical condenser when the outer radius becomes infinite , we have by , , and thus by ( 1 ) , where is the radius of the image of the plane in the sphere .
Since , we have , ( 18 ) or .
( 19 ) We can also show that , ( 20 ) where , and is any number .
This follows from ( 17 ) , because from ( I ) , , and therefore , , and so Thus and hence ( 20 ) follows from ( 17 ) .
If we put , ( 20 ) becomes , ( 21 ) where , and We also have , ( 22 ) where and This follows at once from ( 21 ) .
Hence the mutual coefficient between any two spheres can be found from the Tables*for the mutual coefficients of equal spheres .
Miscellaneous Rdations between the Coefficients and Capacities .
If we define the capacity between two conductors as the ratio of the charge on one of them to the difference of potential between them when they are given equal and opposite charges , we have by X , p. 258 , .
( 23 ) It readily follows that and are all positive .
Hence lies in value between the smaller of the self-capacity coefficients and .
We may also write in the form , ( 24 ) Kelvin , Reprint , p. 96 ; A. Russell , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 82 , p. 629 : 'Journ .
of the Inst. of Elec .
Engine vol. 48 , p. 257 .
The Coefficients of the minus being written before the square root as is always less than It is easy to show by ( 7 ) , ( 8 ) , and ( 17 ) that if be the capacity between the spheres of the system , then ( 25 ) Similarly we can show that ( 26 ) or 2 , and by ( 19 ) , ( 27 ) where denotes the capacity between the spheres , 1 , 1 , of the system .
The following examples illustrate the practical use of the theorems given above : merical Examples .
1 .
A system of two spheres , each 1 cm .
in radius and 2 cm .
apart .
In this case by 11 ) , , and by ( 12 ) .
Keeping the first two terms only in the expansion given in , ( 21 ) of in ascending powers of , we have .
( 28 ) Hence .
Therefore 4 .
The value given Oy Kelvin*is 82 .
If we had assumed that could be calculated by the ordinary formula for a concentric spherical condenser , namely , the error introduced by this assumption when determining would only be unity in the seventh decimal place .
* Kelvin , Reprint , p. 96 .
VOL. XCVII.\mdash ; A. Dr. A. Russell .
Similarly by ( 19 ) we have , and by ( 12 ) , and hence by ( 28 ) .
Therefore 238 4 .
( loc. cit. ante ) gives the value 24 .
By ( 27 ) we also have , and by ( 12 ) , , , and , 15 , very approximately .
Hencc . .
the values found above , we have .
2 .
If we consider the spherical condenser the capacity of is and use the inverse formula , we get Kelvin 's Tahle , 29 , and thus .
To check this value , we by ( 12 ) and also , .
Hencc 001 4 .
Hence also 287 7 .
The pacity Coefficients of Conductors .
Spheres close togcther : When the external spheres are at a distance apart which is small compared with either radius , the coefficients can be easily computed by the help of , which gives the capacity of a spherical condenser when the spheres are close together .
As an example of the use of this formula let us find the capacity between a sphere of radius which is at a very small distance from an plane .
Making the radius of the outer sphere infinite in , ( 16 ) and ecting terms containing squares and higher powers of , we , ( 29 ) where Euler 's constant the capacity equals plus capacity between the sphere and the image of the plane in the sphere .
Thus ( 30 ) This equation is exact .
Hence also ( 31 ) is the capacity between a sphere of a radius and a plane at a distance which equals , from it .
For example , when and we ooet , and thus by ( 29 ) and thus This is correct to the last figure .
The computation of the capacity between a sphere and a plane is very simple when the distance between them is large compared with the radius of the sphere .
For instance , when the radius of the sphere is 10 cm .
, and the hei of its centre above the plane is 100 cm .
, we get by ( 30 ) approx. .
The true value is 39 .
Dr. A. Russell .
Approximate Formuloe for the Capacity a Sphere and a Large Conductor .
If be the self-capacity of the sphere , and be the self-capacity of all the neighbouring conductors connected in parallel , we have shown above that the capacity between the sphere and the conductors lies in value between and .
Hence when is large , , is practically equal to and thus by ( 1 ) , ( 32 ) where is the capacity between the surface of the sphere and all the images of the conductors in the sphere connected in parallel .
If the conductors are distant from the sphere their images will be small and close to the centre of the sphere .
In this case will be very slightly greater than the capacity of the images if they were in infinite space .
We therefore have , ( 33 ) approximately .
Hence when the capacity of the image is known , we can find an approximate value of at once .
1 .
Consider a small sphere of radius placed between two parallel and infinite conducting planes at distances and from its centre , where and can be neglected compared with unity .
The images of the two planes will obviously be two spheres of radii and touching one another at the centre of ( fig. 5 ) .
The capacity*C ' of the images is by , ( 34 ) FIG. 5.\mdash ; The capacity between the sphere A and the two infinite planes equals the radius of the sphere A plus the capacity of the condenser formed by A and the two image spheres touching at its centre .
where is the arithmic derivate of the gamma function .
If we write * A. Russell , ' Alternating Currents , ' vol. 1 , p. 243 .
The Coefficients of Conductors .
, then the capacity between the sphere and the planes is given by ( 1 ) When ( 2 ) When ; and ( 3 ) When .
If there had only been one plane at a distance from the centre of the sphere , this method gives us .
( 35 ) But by ( 29 ) the true value of in this case is .
Hence , when , we have to a seven figure accuracy ( 36 ) In this case , therefore , the error introduced by using ( 35 ) instead of ( 36 ) is only about the hundredth part of lper cent. 2 .
Let us consider the case of an infinite plane conducting sheet with a large hemispherical boss of radius on it and let us find an approximate value of the capacity between this sheet and a small sphere of radius whose centre coincides with the centre of the hemispherical boss .
The image of the sheet in the sphere is a hemisphere of radius Hence Hence we find that approximately .
The capacity between the small sphere and the boss alone ( the rest of the sheet being removed ) would be given by If the sphere had been at the centre of a sphere of radius , its capacity would be given by approximately .
We can write down in a similar way the capacity between a small sphere whose centre is on the axis of a long hollow cylindrical conductor , as the * J. H. Jeans , 'Electricity and Magnetism , Chap. VIII , ex. 41 .
W. D. Niven , 'London Math. Soc. Proc , p. 64 ; vol. 28 , p. 205 ; H. M. Macdonald , ) , vol. 26 , p. 156 ; vol. 28 , p. 214 .
Kelvin , Reprint , p. 178 ; N. M. Ferrers , ' Quart .
Journ vol. 18 , p. 97 .
Prof. J. W. Nicholson .
imab in this case is an anchor ring , the capacity of which is known .
* We can also write down at once an approximate value of the capacity between a tetrahedral or a cubical sheet and a small sphere at its centre .
In some cases , also , we can assume without error , that the of the can be computed very nately by the formula where is the surface of the The Lateral Vibrations of ply-pointed Bars .
By J. W. NICHOLSON , S. , Professor of Mathematics in the University of London .
Received January 12 , 1920 .
) In a preceding paper , discussion was given of the lateral vibrations of bars of circular cross-section formed by the revolution of the curve \mdash ; when is between the values zero and unity\mdash ; about the axis of .
The matter arose in connection with the siliceous deposits found upon a certain type of sponge spicule , as discussed in a joint paper 1oy Prof. Dendy and the present author .
S It is of some interest to obtain a more extended knowledge of the vibrations of solids to this class , with a view to further applications .
The phenomena presented in a curious manner with the value of , and , in certain respects , could not be foreseen in an elementary way .
A discussion of the subject , in numerical terms , for an exponent between 1 and 2 is very laborious , and in the present paper we confine attention to the .
This is a limiting case , which presents very exceptional features , and gives rise to a period equation of an unusual type .
It illustrates clearly , at the same time , the effect of sharpening the ends of the rod beyond the point at which they are conical .
The rod is a free-free bar , symmetrical about its axis , and each half is obtained by the revolution of a portion of a parabola about the tangent at its vertex .
* F. W. Dyson , 'Phil .
Trans vol. 184 , p. 43 . .
Russell , ' Journ. Inst. of Elec .
Engine vol. 55 , .
Soc. Proc , vol. 93 , p. 506 ( 1917 ) .
S 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 89 , p. 573 ( 1917 ) .

