XIV .
" Researches on the Phosphorus-Bases , " --No .
XIIIo Sulphuretted Derivatives of Triethylphosphine .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 24 , 1861 .
In the former Notes of my researches on the phosphorus-bases , 1 have repeatedly alluded to the beautiful red crystals , C , IH , P S2=(C2 15)3 P , C S , , which are formed by the action of disulphide of carbon on triethylphosphine .
I have pointed out that the facility and rapidity with which they are formed , render disulphide of carbon a most valuable reagent for the phosphorus-bases ( trimethylphosphine exhibiting a perfectly similar deportment ) , since neither the monarsines nor the monostibines are in any way affected by this substance .
On the other hand , triethylphosphine may be employed with the greatest advantage as a test for disulphide of carbon .
There is , in fact , no test for this substance which in delicacy could be compared with triethylphosphine .
By its aid the presence of the disulphide in the most volatile fractions of coal-tar-benzol is readily proved ; even the exceedingly small quantity of disulphide of carbon diffused in the most carefully purified coal-gas , may , as I have shown already in another place* , be recognized without any difficulty .
In describing in a previous Note the formation and composition of the disulphide-of-carbon-compound , I have already mentioned the peculiar transformation which this substance suffers under the influence of water , being converted under these circumstances into the sulphide of triethylphosphine .
I have of late minutely examined this remarkable reaction .
The transformation is most conveniently studied by digesting the disulphide-of-carbon-compound with water in sealed tubes .
After three or four days ' exposure to 1000 , the red crystals have disappeared , being replaced by the slender crystals of the sulphide .
The latter compound is accompanied by several other products , the nature of which varies according to the duration of the reaction .
In the first stages of the process considerable quantities of disulphide of carbon are separated , which in the latter stages may be traced in its products of decomposition , carbonic acid and sulphuretted hydrogen .
The mother-liquor of the sulphide of triethylphospine is distinctly alkaline , and yields , after the necessary operations , on addition of dichloride of platinum , the well-known octohedral platinum-salt of methyl-triethylphosphonium .
On further evaporating the liquid from which these crystals had been obtained , the six-sided tables of the platinum-salt of oxide of triethylphosphine were deposited .
The principal products of the action of water upon the red crystals , then , are sulphide of triethylphosphine , oxide of triethylphosphine , hydrate of methyl-triethylphosphonium , and disulphide of carbon , which may be partly or entirely converted into sulphuretted hydrogen and carbonic acid .
Four molecules of the disulphide of carboncompound , and two molecules of water , contain the elements of two molecules of the sulphide , one molecule of the oxide , one molecule of the hydrated phosphonium , and three molecules of disnlphide of carbon:4[(C2 H ) P , C2 ] +2 [ } 0 ] =2[( 2 , )3 PS ] + ( C , H , )3 PO+[(C H3)(C2 H )3j } 0+43 C S. Whilst engaged with the experiments involved in the elucidation of this subject , I observed occasionally small well-defined yellow crystals disseminated among the mixture of white and red needles , which were deposited when the digestion-tubes were allowed to cool before the transformation was terminated .
The yellow crystals appeared in greater quantity towards the close of the operation , but were even under the most favourable circumstances obtained only in extremely minute quantity .
These crystals are almost insoluble in ether , and may therefore be readily separated from the sulphide of triethylphosphine with which they are contaminated .
Crystallization from boiling absolute alcohol furnishes them in a state of perfect purity , occasioning , however , a certain loss , which may become very considerable if ebullition be continued for some time .
This substance is decomposed at 100 ?
, and had therefore to be dried for analysis , in vacuo , over sulphuric acid .
The yellow crystals were found to contain CS H7 P S3 .
The formation of a compound of this formula by the action of water upon the red crystals is easily understood , if we recollect the .
separation , during the principal phase of this process , of disulphide of carbon , and therefore , in consequence of a secondary reaction , of sulphuretted hydrogen which , more especially during the latter stages of the operation , is apt to accumulate to a very considerable extent in the liquid .
Three molecules of the red disulphide-ofcarbon-compound , and one molecule of sulphuretted hydrogen contain the elements of one molecule of disulphide of carbon , two molecules of sulphide of triethylphosphine and one molecule of the yellow crystals , 3C , I-1 , PS2+H2 S= CS+ 2C6 I-H15 PS + C8 H17 PS , Red crystals .
Sulphide .
Yellow crystals .
That the formation of the yellow crystals is actually due to the action of sulphuretted hydrogen is unequivocally proved by a synthetical experiment .
The red disulphide-of-carbon-compound , when digested at 100 ?
in sealed tubes with a saturated solution of sulphuretted hydrogen , is rapidly converted into the yellow crystals .
I have thus succeeded in preparing considerable quantities of this substance , of which , as long as it was only obtained as a secondary , I might almost say accidental , product of the reaction , I had great difficulty in procuring a sufficient quantity for analysis .
The constitution of the yellow crystals , like that of the red compound from which they originate , is rather obscure .
I have already pointed out on a former occasion that the red compound may be viewed as the primary triethylphosphonium-salt of suiphocarbonic acid minus one molecule of sulphuretted hydrogen , [ ( C2 H , ) , HPI C s3S=(C2 H)3 P , C2 , .
If we imagine a sulphocarbonic acid in which one equivalent of hydrogen is replaced by the monatomic radical CH3 S ( methylenemercaptam minus the molecular residue of sulphuretted hydrogen ) , Sulphocarbonic acid. .
H}C S } , Sulphomethylsulphocar(C HI S ) }CS bonic acid ... ... .
Hf the yellow crystals may be viewed as the triethylphosphonium-salt of sulphomethylated sulphocarbonic acid minus one molecule of sulphuretted hydrogen , C -I , S } ) HECH 2S } [ ( C2 H)3 HP ] -3 i ( C 1)P J The view which I am taking of the constitution of the yellow crystals is supported by a remarkable transformation which this substance undergoes under the influence of boiling water .
I have already mentioned that this compound cannot be recrystallized from boiling alcohol without loss .
The substance is likewise readily soluble in boiling water , but the solution contains no longer the original compound , and no crystals are deposited either on cooling or on evaporation .
During ebullition the yellow compound is entirely destroyed , disulphide of carbon being abundantly evolved .
The residuary liquid exhibits a faintly alkaline reaction , and yields with acids well crystallized saline compounds .
The finest of these salts is the iodide which , being very soluble in boiling and only sparingly soluble in cold water , may easily be obtained in long wellformed needles of perfect purity .
Analysis has proved this substance to contain C7 H18 , PSI= [ ( C H3 , S ) ( C H , ) , P ] I. This formula represents the iodide of a sulphomethyl-triethylphosphonium , the derivation of which from the yellow compound may be readily traced .
One molecule of the latter and one molecule of water contain the elements of one molecule of disulphide of carbon and one molecule of hydrate of sulphomethyl-triethylphosphonium , ( 1 [ ( C sc,1 ( CII , S ) ( C , H3 , ) P , CS , +H J O=CS+ ( 3 S ) ( C HI ) } 0 , which , when treated with acids , yields the corresponding salts .
I have not been able to eliminate the hydrate again from the iodide .
When treated with oxide of silver , this compound loses its iodine , but not without its sulphur being likewise attacked , the last traces of which are separated , however , only after protracted ebullition .
Considerable quantities of triethylphosphine are evolved during ebullition , and the liquid filtered off from the black precipitate , consisting of sulphide and iodide of silver mixed with metallic silver , contains the hydrates of argento-triethylphosphonium and methyl-triethylphosphonium , together with the sulphates of these bases .

