]\gt ; PROCEEDINGS OF TIt E ROYAL SOCIETY .
SECTION ATEBJrATICAL AND REPORTS ON THE TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE OF 1905 , AUGUST 30 .
( Presented by the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee of the Royal Society and the Royal Astronomical Society at a Special Meeting of the two Societies , October 19 , 1905 .
) Report of the to Castell6n de Plana , By H. L. CALLENDAR , M.A. , .D .
, F.R.S. , Professor of PlJysics , and A. FOUL , Assistant Professor of Physics , Royal College Science , South Kensington .
( Received October 19 , 1905 .
) Part I.\mdash ; By Professors H. L. CALLENDAR and A. owLER .
The expedition to de la Plana , Spain , was one of the series organised by the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee , the expenses being iefly defrayed from the Government Grant Fund .
miles south of the central line , was selected as the most suitable station after careful inquiries as to the local and facilities had been made by the Vice-Consul , Mr. Edward Harker , who also rendered invaluable aid to the expedition in various other ways .
The advantages of being near a town of considerable size sufficiently compensated for the loss of 18 seconds in the duration of totality as compared with that on the central , and , for some of the work , the resulting change in the position angle of second contact would have been a distinct gain .
The party originally included Mr. W. Shackleton , but in consequence of a temporary illness he was unable to go out to Spain , and the expedition thus suff'ered the serious loss of an experienced observer at the outset .
Mr. VOL. LXXVII.\mdash ; A. Profs .
H. L. Callendar and A. Fowler .
[ Oct. 19 , Shackleton had , however , practically completed the large scale coronagraph and prismatic camera which he had intended to use , and it becatne possible to utilise this apparatus the voluntary assistance of Mr. E. H. Bayner , of the National Physical Laboratory .
Mr. T. Banfield accompanied the expedition as technical assistant , and Messrs. Isaac Molloy , E. Cahe ] ] , and J. J. Steward joined the party as volunteers .
Messrs. Fowler , Banfield , Molloy , and Cahen arrived at Castello'n on August 3 , and were welcomed at the railway station a deputation from the Corporation , headed by the Deputy-Mayor , IJon isco Calnpos , ether with a number of prominent citizens , and or Don Josc Badia , private to the , who was to act interpreter .
very possible assistance was prolnised by the local hori r After an inspection of the various sites which had ) } suggested , it was decided that the greatest facilities were afforded by the grounds of the new Provincial Hospital which is in course of constructio ] ] .
There was ample space enclosed by a high boundary wall , a good stlpl ) lie of water , skilled workmen on the premises , and an abundance of ) which could be used as store rooms , photographic rooms , , and so sion to establish the camp on this site was readily rantc on application to the Deputy-President of the Provincial Deputation , Senor ] Tiburcio Martin .
The work of cleariug the , building piers the instl.unlents , and huts was commenced without delay , undel fbe ) ervision of Don Francisco Tomas , a local architect , who enerously 1 ) his part of the work gratuitously .
the preparations the ilitary Governor ( His Don Juan Manrique de Lara ) , the Civil Governor ( His Don Sanchez Ortiz ) , and the Mayor of Castellon made constant iqiies , either personally or by , as to the needs of the ) and , ) addition , or Don Jose Marza , Town Councillor was tnntly in attendance at the camp to ensure that nothing was to itate the work .
Professor arrived at Castello'n on in time to make observations of- the full moon ; Mr. ' on Mr. Steward on August 28 .
Ten days before the eclipse the necessaly drills were comnlenced and car1ied on every day at dusk , and also on the two days precedin the eclipse , near the time at which totality would occul .
The weather conditions during the days preceding the eclipse were 1905 .
] Eclipse Expedition to de la promising , there being only three or four days on which good observations would not have been possible .
The da of the eclipse , however , was unsettled , and though the first and fourth contacts were observed in perfectly clear sky , not even a glimpse of the sun was obtained totality .
The clouds of early morning were dispersed by a shower of , which ceased in ample time for the final adjustment of the instruments , and for records of the prominences before the commencement of the eclipse .
These hopeful conditions , however , only persisted for about 30 minutes after first contact , when a reat bank of slowly-moving clouds approached from the north-west and completely obscured the sun until totality was at an end .
About a minute after totality the crescent sun was seen for an instant , but the obscuration continued with very short breaks until about 20 minutes before the last contact , after which the sky was clear until near sunset .
No results were accordingly obtained during totality , except such as are given by the automatic records of solar radiation and temperature , to which separate reference is made later .
Through the kindness of the Military Govel.nor , a guard of soldiers was stationed in and about the camp on the day of eclipse in order to prevent any possible interference with the work of the observers .
It was particularly desired that crowds of people should not be permitted to ] lect in the vicinity of the camp so that the involuntary shouts to which the phenomena of totality are liable to give rise should not clash with the time signals regulating the exposures of the photographic plates .
The arrangements made were entirely satisfactory .
In addition to those otherwise mentioned in this report , the thanks of the expedition are due to ores Manuel Montesinos ( Architect of the Hospital ) , Telmo Vega ( Secretary to the Proyincial Deputation ) , Miguel Peris , and Antonio Gomez , for valuable help in various ways , and to the owners of the numerous factories in the district who stopped work on the day of the eclipse so that there should be no smoke to mar the observations .
Special mention should also be made of the invalual ) services rendered to the expedition by Badia , who by no means restricted his assistance to that of an interpreter .
Position of Camp and Times of The precise geographical position of the eclipse camp was derived from the co-ordinates of a point at the summit of the City Tower as given by the Trigonometrical Survey of Spain , *namely : Latitude Longitude east of Madrid .
' .
Geodesica de ler Orden de ' Madrid , 1894 , p. 45 .
Profs .
H. L. Callendar and A. Fowler .
[ Oct. 19 , The corrections to the camp were very kindly determined by trian fulation , by the City Architect , Godfredo Itos de Ursinos , with the results:\mdash ; Latitude , ) Longitude west of Greenwich .
Oh .
Om .
these co-ordinates , and by the } ) roxinlaGe formudae givell in 'Nautical Almanac Circular , ' No. 19 , ) ) found : Eclipse ( fins August 29 23 ) Totality , , , , 30 1 ]32 Totality ends , , 30 1 clipse , , , , 30 2 57 Duration of totality 3 26 Angle , ,from north poin of thist c Other calculations gave\mdash ; north point of 2nd contact 3rd , , ' 's altitude at mid-totality The beginning and end of totality , as observe in sky , vere too indeterminate to permit useful records of times hich t occurred , but Mr. Fowler carefully erved the times of first fonrtlt contacts by the spectroscopic method , with the following results:\mdash ; 1st Contact , 11 55 14 4th , , 2 The first contact was thus corded 2 seconds , fourth five seconds , before the clive times calculated .
The ) ) neler ( adopted the mean of two detelllinations nladc with litc ) on the afternoon of the eclipse by only two .
A calculation of the times from the esselinn elements the tical Ahnttnac ' does not the lesults by so a , so that there 1 a considerable ) ancy between culatlon .
pgme of the ) lition , which ) extended in consequence of the assistance of local , will be gathered f the list of instrunlents 1905 .
] Eclipse Expedition to de la 20-Inch , with appliances for the measurement of solar corollal radiation .
H. L. Callendar .
Absolute Recording normal solar radiation , mounted .
Horizontal ; for recording vertical component of total radiation .
ording Electrical Thermorneters , air , etc. H. L. Callendar .
pectrograph , adjusted for the to F. A. Fowler T. Banfield Joaquin Assisting with plate-holders , etc. Inch Equatorial , with vershed solal ) , for visual observa- tions .
A. Fowler .
4-inch graiph , 38 feet focal , with direct-vision prism for coronal and chromospheric spectra .
E. H. Rayner .
I. Molloy , in charge of prism .
Jose BVenancio S with plate-holders .
:3-Inch , 57 inches focal length , with greeJl screen for imler corona , as suggested by Mr. ShackletoI T. Banfield .
3-Inch Coronagraph , 20 inches focal th , with ] polar heliostat , for coronal extensions .
E. Cahen .
jctrograph of small dispersion , with small coelostat and lens for spectrum of outer corona .
Francisco Betoret .
Slitiess spectroscopes , for of green ring .
A. Fowler , T. Banfield , Telnlo V , Francisco Betoret .
2-Inch Telescope , for direct observation of corona in the of a previously selected prominence .
J. J. Steward .
Barograph .
J. J. Steward .
'Monthly Notices , R.A. vol. 60 , 433 , 1900 .
Profs .
H. L. Callendar and A. Fowler .
[ Oct. 19 , jrtiations of Stars Totalily .
I. Molloy .
Observations of .
Juan Vilo .
J. J. Steward , chronometer .
Jose ' Badia .
Luis Giraudier } signals totality .
the main objects of the expedition were frustrated by clouds , a llore extellded account of the principal instruments , and of the observations hich it was intended to , llay possibly be estive on some points in preparing for future eclipses .
With the sections not dealt with further , it need only be mentioned that pella was seen during totality through a break between clouds , and hat the fall of indicated by the thermograph was while from minutes before to 11 minutes aftel totality the barograph fistered a decided gradual increase of , amounting to inch , followed a Part II.\mdash ; By Professol H. L. ) The mirror made by Common had an pertnre of 20 inches a focal of 45 inches , giving an of the sun ) cm .
in diameter .
The instrument , as received , had a small slide-holder at the principal focus , and was for taking photographs of the corona in 1889 .
In it for the heat radiation of the ) the short-focus mirror was very suitable , the by a onal plane the to tube in a convenient position for with an } or qensitive olometer o thermopile .
The of somewhat aftGl some of the , it ro .
possible to set the telescope within two or three lninutcs of position of any celestial object eans o the circles .
As no } ) rovisiol ) for fine adjust1nent , the eye-piece rying the nlounted on a plate with pinion llsion ( declination , which proved extremely collvenient for the for which the instrument was lequired .
The driving clock at first very unsatisfactory , but after some tions to the and 1900 clipse Expedition to stellon de pinions , it was successfully adjusted to follow for nearly an hour without appreciable error .
The tube of the telescope was fitted with a of 15 inches diameter , which limited the aperture , but improved the definition considerably .
With this reduction , after allowing for obstruction by the flat , , at the two reflections , the effective concentration of the rays at the focus wns upwards of 1000 times , which was ample for the purpose .
The mirrors were freshly silvered before packing , about the middle of July , and were necessarily somewhat tarnished by .
The loss of heat due to this cause was not , and would not have affected the results , as all the measurements were comparative .
The Absolute This bolometer was designed for the determination of solar radiation in absolute measure by the electric compensation method .
The radiation admitted through a measured aperture of 3 sq . .
was received on a blackened grid of fine platinum strips in such a way as to intercept the whole of the admitted beam .
The increase of resistance of the grid , which was nearly proportional to the intensity of the incident radiation , was automatically recorded by means of a CalleIldar Recorder of the usual pattern .
The intensity in absolute measure was determined by the value of the electric current required to produce the same rise of temperatame in the grid as the radiation to be measured .
bolometer was provided with compensators for eliminating the loss of heat by conduction at the ends of the strips and the effect of chaltges in the temperature on the resistance of the grid .
The instrument was contained in a cylindrical water-jacket fitted with suitable diaphragms to protect it from air currents , and to limit the radiation received to a small part of the sky in the neighbourhood of the sun .
When the instrument was exposed to the sun , a current of water was kept circulating the jacket to prevent rapid or excessive variations of temperature , and the actual tempelature of the water-jacket at any time was recorded by means of an electrical thermometer .
The apparatus was moumted on the tube of the 20-inch reflector , and the .
in the roof of the hut were arranged to permit .
continuous records being taken between the hours of 10 .
and , so as to include the whole duration of the eclipse .
from its use for recording the variations of solar radiation , the instrument was intended for reducing to absolute measure the of the coronal thermopile .
For this purpose the tube of the telescope was provided with a double cover of tin plate fitted with a series of Profs .
H. L. ] endar and A. Fowler .
[ Oct. 19 , apertures which could be uncovered at will so to admit a known fraction of the fuil solar radiation to the coronal thermopile .
By comparing the readings of the coronal thermopile with the simultaneously recorded readings of tlJe absolute bolometer , it was easy to obtain a factor for reducing the readings of the thermopile at full apelture taken on the moon or the corona to absolute measure .
Incidentally a comparison was made veen the of the absolute bolometer and one of Angstrom 's pyrheliometc-rs .
The two unents were found to gree v closely in the relative values of the radiation over a wide range , but the readings of the bolometer wore nearly 1 cent. than those of the pyrheliometer for a radiation of 1 calorie per lare centimetre per minute .
This may have been due to some accidental defect of the pyrheliometer , as the values given by the two strips differed by nearly per cent. , which appears to be unusual excessive for this type of instrument .
* It also be explained by an error in the method of reduction , which does not appear to have received attention hitherto .
In consequence of the increase of the resistance of the strip with temperature , the heat , generated by co mpensating current increases with rise of temperature , so that it is necessary to nse diffe1ent values of the reduction factor , which are tabulated for difIerent temperatures as indicated by a small thermometer in the .
The thermometer , however , merely gives the temperature of the case , and ) bhat of the strip , which must be many degrees hotter when the intensity of the radiation is so great as 1 calorie per square centimetre per 1ninute .
In the strom pyrheliometer it is not easy to obtain the actual nperatul e of the strip un der these conditions , but in the bolonleter , the stl.ips of hich of similar width , the rise is found to be upwards of .
By similar rise of temperature in the pyrheliometer strips above that indicated by the attached thermometer , and reduction factor , it is noteworthy that the readings of the be into closer agreement with those of the ) The Thermopile .
Previous observations by and Julius had indicated that the heat radiation of the corona must be comparatively feel ) , ( that vonld be to employ the delicate instruments ) it with Mr. W. .
Wilson , F.B.S. , kindly lent second } ) , with which mimultaneous comparisons were .
The two strips of Mr. Wilson 's differed rather less from each other , ) the mean of ) gave a result ) cent. lower than the other Angstron } ) yrheliolueter .
1905 .
] xpedition to de la , Spain .
certainty .
Langley 's were made with a straight bololneter strip 1 cm .
long and 1 mm. wide , an image of a slit of the same dimensio1ls placed tangentially to a solar image obtained with a siderostat and a mirror of cm .
diameter and 100 cm .
focal length .
But the aperture actually utllised on the corona was limited to 280 sq .
cm .
by a cat's-eye With this apparatus a negative deflection of 18 scale-divisions was obtained on the body of the moon , and 13 scale-divisions on the corona after reflections at silvered faces .
The difference of 5 scale-divisions appears hardly sufficient to form a satisfactory basis of argument with to the nature of the coronal radiation .
The objection to the straight slit ] aced tangentially to the solar image of less than 1 cm .
diameter is that a comparatlvely small portion of the slit receives radiation from the inner corona .
A ooreater effect might evidently be secured by the bolometel strip in the form of a circular arc the image .
Two bolometers of this kind were accordingly made with circular strips , but otherwise of similar dimensions to that employed by Langley .
It was found , howeyer , that a current of only one-tenth of an ampere raised the temperature of the strip nearly and the variations of zero due to the of the strip by the current were too large to permit the employnlent of a sufficiently sensitive galvanometer to give a deflection of the desired magnitude .
Langley is stated to have employed a current of ampere in his obsel.vations , which would make the heating effect four times as great .
The of accuracy attainable with a bolometer is limited by the disturbance due to the heating effect of the current .
For a given amount of energy expended in heating the strip , the steadiness , other things being equal , will be directly proportional to the surface available for dissipation of heat .
Bolometers with a small receiving surface are , for this reason , necessarily less sensitive than large ones .
When it becomes necessary to employ a very small receiving surface , as in the case of the corona , it is often preferable to employ the thermoeleetric method .
The thermopile employed by Julius in his observations on the corona in 1901 had a receiving disc 5 mm. in diameter directly exposed to the coronal radiation without the intervention of any mirrors to concentrate the lays or form an .
The the1mopile was fixed the bottom of a long tube with suitable diaphragms , and measured the total effect of the heat radiation from a region of the sky about in eter s the .
The differences between the scale readings obtained on the corona and on neighbouring parts of the sky during totality varied from to 8 scale-divisions , but were rendered ' Astrophysical Journal , ' vol. 12 , p. 72 , 1900 .
the Eclipse Committee of Royal Academy of Amstel.dam .
Profs .
H. L. Callendar and A. Fowler .
[ Oct. 19 , ltertain by the continual of light clouds .
The sensitiveness of the in strument was such that it would a deflection of 23 or 24 scaledivisions ( estimated ) on the full moon , or the ] of about 2,000,000 scale-divisions on full sunshine at calorie per square centimetre per minute .
Assuming that the total radiation of the corona is of the order of one-millionth of full sunshine , one could hardly expect by this method to obtain a satis- factory measurelnent of its intensity .
The coronal thermopile , designed for the 20-inch reflector , a receiving face consisting of ten small blackened of thin copper arranged on the circumference of a circle nearly the of the sun , so as to receive the greater part of the radiation of the inner corona .
The copper rectangles formed the inner.junctions of a series of thin bars of antimuny and bismuth alloys arranged radially on a thin .
disc of mica .
The outer junctions of the couples were by thin copper strips at the circumference of the mica disc .
The pile was constructed in two halves of ve couples each on opposite sides of disc , and the two halves connected either in series or opposition a suitable switch to the galvanometer .
The method of construction shown in fig. 1 , but the receiving rectangles were more evenly spaced than shown in the The mica disc carrying the thelYIlopile was suspended in an ebonite ring by means of four thin connecting wires attached to terminals fixed in the The ebonite .
carried on one side a tube .
in iece f , by which the plane of the thermopile could be to with the focal plane of the mirror , and on the other side a thick etal Iube with to screen the ermopile from and neous radiation .
The diameter of the innermost to the therlnol ) ) was 14 mm. , so that only the inner junctions were ) tion .
The end of the telescope tube was provided a double Ii-plate cover all round beyond the sides of the tube in sttch when the tube was directed on the sun , the eye-piece ) from direct radiation .
Great care had been taken in the to all the elements of equal thickness ( the of area , so that the two halves of the pile be as nearly its possible in sensitiveness and thermoelectric .
In order to , the two halves of the were simultaneously exposed to the s radiation .
The deflection erved when the two halves were opposed was less than one-thousRndth of the deflection obtained when the two were connecte in the direction , the radiation unchanged .
This accuracy of compensation was very important for the nlethod which it was proposed to 1905 .
] Eclipse Expedition to Castellon de la Plana , .
As a subsidiary test , the resistances of the two halves of the pile were lneastlred , and found to be and ohms respectively .
Exact equality of resistance was not essential , but the result is satisfactory as showing how tely the mechanician , Mr. W. J. Colebrook , of the ot Science , had succeeded in execilting the design .
As a result of this accuracy of compensation , the zero of the galvanometer re1oained extremely even under the most trying conditions , with the FIG. l.\mdash ; Coronal Thermopile .
Enlarged about 3 diameters .
telescope exposed to full sunshine and surrounded by unequally heated objects .
There was never any difficulty in taking accurate observations , provided that the sun was not allowed to shine directly on the eye-piece .
At night , and during totality , when the disturbing influence of the radiations lvas absent , it is hardly necessary to say that no trouble was experienced .
JIethods of Observation .
The galvanometer employed wibh the COl.onal thermopile was of the movable-coil type with a plane mirror , 1 inch in diameter , reflecting the of a transparent millimetre scale at a distance of 3 metres into Profs .
H. L. Callendar and A. Fowler .
[ Oct. 19 , a telescope of 2 inches aperture and 3 feet focal .
With this the definition was so good that it was easy to read to a tenth of a millimetre with certainty .
The btJalvanometel .
was stlpl)orted on a pier south of the telescope and proved extremely steady .
The shifted more than a small fraction of millimetre in the course of the day .
The suspension was of very fine phosphor bronze , a deflection of 5 cm .
nearly for one microvolt with the thermocouple in circuit , so that it was possible to read to of a microvolt .
A of scnsitiveness , measured merely in scale-divisions per microvolt , might , no have obtained by a suspended ma alvanometel a small it would not have been possible to obtain so optical definition or equal steadiness of zero , especially in close proxinlity to the iron of the .
It is doubtful whether any inct e of could have been secured by a more sensitive alvanolneter , and it is certain that the trouble of taking the observations would have reatly increased by the incessant variations of zero and changes sensitiveness of the suspended magnet type .
In taking observations with the thermopile it was possible eithel ( 1 ) to read the deflection of the galvanometer , or tu eonpensate the nometer deflection by an opposing .
of known value into the circuit .
A preliminary test of the apparatus with the thermopile directly exposed to radiation of known intensity , as measured ) the absolute bolometer , showed a deflection of nearly 20- cm .
andth of a calorie per square centimetre per minute , so thal radiation one-lnillionth full sunshine could be with celtainty without using ) irror .
When the pile was placed in the focus of the telescope , one thousand times smaller than this could be observed , so that even if the intrinsic heat radiating power of the inner were only one ten-millionth part of the ' surface , it could still ) easured to within 1 per cent. The lirect-deflection lnethod was only suitable for snlall intensities of radiation .
for observations on the Dloon the defIection obtained was far the limits of the scale , and it became necessary to use the compensation method ( 2 ) .
This llethod , itted to be the most accurate , is generally egarde as ) slow cunnbrous for quick work pressure , tality .
vever , that , by a suitable arrangement of ) , quickcr secured the compensation thaII by the deflection ) adopted is shown in the fram , , which was verified at fonnd to bc , sends a steady 1905 .
] Eclipse to current through a resistance of 10,000 ohms arranged as a potentiometer , so that any convenient fraction could be tapped off by revolving pointers .
The ends of the resistance vere connected though a resistance of 100,000 ohms to a sm resistance in the circuit of the galvanometer and thermopile .
The current through the 100,000-ohm circuit would be , and the P.D. on the small resistance would be when there was no current through the alvanometer .
If and were FIG. 2.\mdash ; Diagram of Electrical Connections for Compensation Method .
100 ohms each , and was 3 volts , the P.D. introduced into the galvanometer circuit would be 30 microvolts , correct to about one part in 1000 .
The resistances and could both be varied from 1 to 1000 ohms , giving a range of microvolts .
The obvious adyantages of this method , as compared with the usual bridgewire method , are quickness of manipulation and avoidance of errors due to variation of resistance at the sliding contacts .
A more important advantage for thermoelectric work is that the sliding contacts are all in the battery circuit , where there is a relatively large electromotive force , so that accidental thermal effects , due to exposure of the working parts , or sliding friction , or the warmth of the hand , do not affect the galvanometer .
Profs .
H. L. Callendar and A. Fowler .
[ Oct. 19 , Observaiions on the Sun Moon .
Observations were made at frequent intervals on the sun , for the purpose of testing the apparatus , and to serve as data for comparison with simultaneous readings of the absolute bolometer .
As an example , when the record of the absolute bolometer showed calories ' square centimetre per minute for direct sunshine , the same sunshine admitted a measured aperture 3 mm. in diameter in the cover of the telescope , and adjusted so as to fall on one half of the coronal thermopile , gave an E.M.F. which required the resistances ohms to be inserted to balance it .
When the sun 's was on to the other half of the pile , and the battery reversed , the ) resistance requirPd was ohms .
Shifting back again to the other half gave resistance remaining unaltered .
the effects observed on the two halves of the pile , and taking volts , we find a of microvolts produced in the coronal pile by known fraction of the solar radiation of known intensity .
apparatus was erected in time to get some observations the pile on the full moon on the night ) A , shortly before the partial eclipse .
This was useful as a test of the sensitiveness of the apparatus and of the lnethod of dopl c. The most essential ] ) oint in such observations is to eliminate the variab ] effects of atmospheric radiation , for which the differential mothod of servation with the two halves of the pile appeared particularly suitable .
sing the full apel'ture of the telescope , and first one half of the pile and then the other to the lunar image by means of the rack-alt -pinion motion of slidingplate on which the pile was mounted , with a resistance } in the alvanometer circuit , resistance , , was found to be nearly constant with a mean value .
The .
of the volts , this was equivalent to a .
of ovolts for the whole pile , as compared with 204 nliclovolts obtained on the sun with an apertul.e of 3 mm. , as described in the obsel.vation already recorded .
This the radiation of the full moon , atmospheric absorption , as in the case of the sun , about -calories square neCre per minute , or about 1/ 150,000 of that of SU11 .
The compensation for atmospheric radiation was found to be very pel .
fact , the sensitiveness ample , as it would have been possible to detect radiation thousand times than that of the moon .
As a further test of the accuracy of compensation for atmospheric radiation , a series of similar were in light at 7 .
on the planet Jupiter .
These a difference of 1905 .
] Eclipse Expedition to Castell6n de Plana , Spain .
one-fifth of a 1nillimetre deflection in favour of the planet , which could not of course be regarded as a measurement , but illustrates the practically complete elimination of atmospheric effects .
In taking observations on the corona it was intended to apply a similar method , making use of the motion of the moon totality to define the exact area of the corona corresponding to the differential reading .
At the commencement of totality , the thermopile being cerltred on the sun as indicated in fig. 1 , the inner corona on the eastern limb would be fully exposed , while on the western it would be partly covered by the moon , as indicated by the dotted circle .
At the end of totality the reverse would be the case .
The difference of the eadings would correspond to the radiation of the strip of the corona uncovered by the motion of the moon between the two readings .
The area of the strip of corona considered could be accurately determined from the times at which the were taken .
The advantage of this method is that it accurately compensates for external disturbances , in addition to the radiation from a definite area .
It was intended to take as a standard of comparison of similar shape the radiation of the solar crescent a few after and before totality .
It would also have been possible to take observations of total adiation of the corona intercepted by the pile at the middle of totality by connecting the two halves of tlJe pile in the same direction instead of in opposition .
But in this case it would have been necessary to take an additional reading with the pile directed to a part of the sky to determine the effect of atmospheric radiation , as in the methods adopted by Langley and Julius , and the elimination of atmospheric effect could not for lnany reasons be arded as being so perfect .
A number of other and comparisons were taken during our stay , on the sun and moon , but the examples already given will suffice as illustrations of the method .
The zontal Bolomet The horizontal bolometer was of t , he usual type designed for recording the vertical component of sun and sky radiation .
It consisted simply of a pair of platinum thermometers wound on a horizontal mica plate fixed in a sealed ylass bulb .
One of the thermometers being coated with black enamel is raised to a higher temperature than the other by exposure to radiation .
difference is very nearly proportional to the intensity of the radiation , and is automatically recorded on an electrical recorder of the usual type .
It is , of course , necessary for an instrument intended to be exposed in all weathers that the surface reoeiving radiation should be protected by a glass bulb .
It Profs H. L. Callendar and A. Fowler .
[ Oct. 19 , has often objected that this will cause a very serious error in the record , since laiiS transmits only a small fraction of the radiation .
In practice , however , it ears that this source of error sates itself .
The glass becomes eated and radiates to the enclosed ) .
in the same proportion as its absorbs .
This was tested in a very simple manner by making comparisons between the horizontal bolometer enclosed in its lass I ) and the absolute bolometer with the naked strips directly exposed to the sam radiation .
When the quality of the radiation was varied over a very wid from a dull-red heat to the hest temperature attainable with an incandescent lamp , it was found that the ratio of the readings of the two instruments remained constant within the limits of error of measurement , that the selective absorption of the glass did not materially affect the result .
When exposed to the sum and sky the records are not , however , exactly comparable , because the horizontal bolometer takes the vertical component of the total radiation , and measures the whole heat received by a horizontal surface , whereas the absolute bolometer , when equatorially mounted so as to be normal to the sun 's rays , records the normal } ) onent and receives only a small part of the sky radiation from a region ntnediately 6 the sun .
The full sky radiation may often amount to 30 or 40 per cent. of the whole vertical component , according to the state of the sky and the altitude of the sun .
iption of the Records the .
the sky was clear during the eclipse , a description and reproduction of the records obtained may not be without interest , as it is the first time that an attempt has been made to obtain records of radiation and temperature on so large a scale .
The of the Vertical Component obtained with the horizontal bolometer on , reproduced in fig. 3 .
illustrates the type of curve obtained on with a sky practically free from clouds .
There are always small , incessant valiations of radiation , even on the clearest day , which it ne essary to use a instrument if comparative lesults of any accuracy required .
Fig. 4 the record obtained with the sam instrument on the day of the eclipse .
) heavy ower of rain which occurred about 8.40 .
was the only rain which fell onr The sky cleared vards , and the clear for half an hour after first contact .
When it was , the radiation fell from cal .
to , the latter reading bhat the adiation from the cloud at that time about per the whole .
While the sky ined clouded , the radiation 1905 .
] Eclipse Expedition to Castellon de la .
17 gradually fell to a minimum during totality , and then rose with occasional breaks in the curve , due to variations in the cloud bank .
The sun reappeared .
in time for the observation of the last contact .
The record with the absolute bolometer shown in fig. 5 , extended from 10.10 .
to 2.50 .
The normal curve which the record should have followed on a clear day without eclipse is indicated by the dotted line .
The record began to fall regularly at first contact , following the predicted VOL. LXXVII .
Profs .
H. L. Callendar and A. Fowler .
[ Oct. 19 , Component of Sur and abion .
Aug. educed to half of ecord .
FIG. 5 .
Absolube BoIomeCer on .
IO II IZ Ip .
2 3 Reduced to half size of record .
1905 .
] Eclipse Expedition to de la , Spain .
curve .
As soon as the sun was obscured by clouds the reading fell very nearly to zero , because the aperture of the instrument includes only a very small part of the sky surrounding the sun .
The dotted curve indicates the which the record should have taken if the sky had been clear .
FIG. 6 .
Reduced to half size of original record .
The record of air-temperature shown in fig. 6 was obtained with a bare platinum wire wound on an open mica frame , as yned for Brown 's experi- ments on the temperature of leaves and air-currents .
* The platinum grid was suspended at a height of 4 feet in a seciall-diged screen , 1 metre cube , with a double top and free ventilation .
This type of thermometer is extremely SenSiGiye and free from radiation error .
The scale was 2 .
to the degree rade , and illustrates very well the incessant fluctuations , which are missed ether by the usual type of raph .
Part III.\mdash ; By A. FOWLErS .
The special object of the work with the slit raph was to photograph pectra of the corona and chromosphere in the less refrangible parts of the visible spectrum , for which purpose , in consequence of the possible *'Roy .
oc .
'Jitnuary , , p. 124 , vol. B. 76 , where a is given the details of construction .
similar thermometer was made shortly afterwards , with slight diHerences of detail , to the design of Mr. E. H. Wade , of the Survey Department , Cairo , has been employed at Obselvatory with factor results .
Profs .
H. L. Callendar and A. Fowler .
[ Oct 19 , difficulty of obtaining plates highly sensitive to red , it was considered advisable to use a spectrograph of aperture .
The instrument employed was of the Littrow type , having an object-glass 3 inches in diameter , one prisrn of and two of , one of the latter being silvered on the back and adjusted so as to eturn the through the prisms and object-glass into the camera .
The slit attached to the side of the camera , and light it was thrown on the object-glass by a small totally-reflecting prism .
The camera was provided with a set of multiple plate-holders , kindly lent by Sir Norman Lockyer , and the exposures were made by a shutter in front of the plate from a vertical to a horizontal position .
This form of is very compact , and a high dispersion is economically obtained .
With the instrument in question , the linear dispersion from to was inches , and with the slit set to on 's " " diffractional indicator\ldquo ; scale , the actual purity of spectrum realised on the raphic plates was about 13,000 in the neighbourhood of the green corona line .
The spectrograph was used in conjunction with a 12-inch coelostat , and the image on the slit was produced by a 6-inch objective of 76 inches focal length .
The spectrograph itself was supported horizontally on a large packing-case inside a hut , the object-glass eoelostat rested on piers outside .
The point of second contact in the formed after ) flection from the coelostat was almost exactly at the extremity of a horizontal diameter , so that the flash spectrum would be depicted under the most favourable conditions , that the image could be kept tangential to the sun 's limb .
To facilitate the working of the combination , two finders ttached to the raph , one a direct view of the seen in the coelostat mirror ; and the other utilising the spectrum reflected from one of the prism faces .
The eye-piece of the latter was close to the camera , a mirror introduced to send the light in the required direction .
This ement was invaluable , as by its aid could observe the exact counterpart of the spectrum presented to the ) plate , and ) means of a long rod attached to the fine ad , ustment of the , the position of the sun 's on slit could be controlled without rent( the eye from the finder .
No difficulty was anticipated in the flash spectrum , even with the slit tangential to the sun 's lintl ) the point of contact .
After many trials , both in land Spain , lates selected for use the eclipse were Seed\ldquo ; sensitised for the visible spectlun ] soaking for foulinutes in a of pinachrome and , in 1905 .
] Eclipse to ) distilled water , drying as quickly as possible .
Very results obtained with these plates in experiments on photographing the hter chromospheric lines before the eclipse .
FIG. 7.\mdash ; The Slit Spectrograph . .
Slit . .
Handle for operating exposing shutter . .
Finder for viewing spectrum lected from ) face . .
Finder for viewing sum in coelostat mirror . .
Rod for fine adjustment of coelostat mirror .
[ .
Repeating back and dark slide .
The exposures for totality were planned as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) " " Go\ldquo ; to 200 For flash spectrum .
( 2 ) 198 , , 190 For upper chromosphere .
, , 30 For coronal spectrum , including brighter chromo spheric lines for determination of positions .
( 4 ) 15 , , " " Over\ldquo ; For flash spectrum .
* Image readjusted between 3 and 4 .
Profs .
H. L. Callendar and A. Fowler .
[ Oct. 19 , It was also intended to make 20 addivional exposures on the cusps at intervals before and after totality , but the state of the sky was entirely unfavourable even for part of the As a general remark , it may be mentioned that the constantly of the reflected beam of sunlight the ccelostat caused of laboul , which might have been avoided if a siderostat had been nvail for the work .
The whole and the lens to be readjusted , at least once a day , in order to nlaintai full illumination of the prisms , and in a temporary ) tory this wa , a matter of considerable culty .
Moreover , the ccelostat has the additional that there is one fine adjustment , moving the a direction inclined to that of the slit , so that , in from one of the sun to the other , it was necessary to displace the object-glass as well as 1use the fine adjustment , With a siderostat , on the hand , the raph m be collimated once for all , and any desired part of the sun the slit by means of mirror adjustments .
Spcctroscopic Obs ) To supplement the work , it nrranged to make visual vations of the spectrum of the corona during the long exposure with the spectro.raph , and , totality , to repeat the interesting observations made by Sir Nornlan Lockyer the eclipse of instrument provided for these observations } an Evershed solar spectroscope of high power , adal ) an excellent inch Cooke equatorial , which was very indly placed disposal of the expedition by Mr. Shackleton .
The complete series of observations contemplated ) as follows:\mdash ; of \mdash ; To record pearances n positions of the prominences .
At of the times of first fourth contacts by tho spectl Ocopic method .
liefore ) the spectl.tln of spot near the limb , in order to detelmine the of duced s , in connection with shed 's suggestion , that the of unaffected lines in the of be due to To -lalnine the ' : continuous " " spectrum of the , especially near , with the view of furtheltion c to the ( lbbed \ldquo ; noted by Sir Norman } er in 1882 .
' ltoy .
Soc. ' vol. 34 , 1 ) .
29 vol. 1905 .
] Eclipse Expedition to Castellon de ( 2 ) To observe the structure of a portion of the inner corona as seen with a wide sliC in the of the green line .
To search for the coronal lines between and the orrreen line suspected Young and Harkness , and also to search indications of iron lines .
' Totality.\mdash ; To note how long the green line could be seen after the end of the totality , and to the relative htness a extensions of the arc and enhanced lines of iron at the cusps .
In addition to the above , half a to be devoted to sketching the reen coronal ring as seen with a direct-vision spectroscope of considerable dispersion , the ] limator of course being removed .
On account of the unfavourable weather , only a very small part of this ramme was actually carried out : namely , the determination of the times of first and fourth contacts , details of which have already been given , and the observation of the prominences before the eclipse commenced .
The large group of prominences the eastern limb , reported by all observers who were favoured with clear sky , was well seen between and 11.0- , but even more was a small intensely bright metallic prominence on the western limb , at a position recorded as counted from north through east .
In the spectrum of this prominence , the and lines were exceptionally bright , as were also a great number of other lines ordinarily seen in such eruptions .
The may possibly be of interest in ations of the coronal structure in this region , in of error in the determination of absolute position angle , it may be useful to add that the eruption was aboub 14 from the middle of the large group , reckoned the north point .
Several other prolninences were also observed , but they were mostly small and llot very bright .
As a general renlark , it was noted that the whole chromosphere appeared to ) disturbed , and reversals of the lines were observed in unusually high solar latitudes .
It may be added that considerable activity was shown in the largc1 spot near the east limb .
The line was reversed and distorted in several and was distinctly visibl dark line neighbourhood On the day after the eclipse similar appearances were seen , and the and lines were clearly reversed over the umbra . .
By W. .R.A.S .
40-foot and matic Originally it was intended that the coronagraph by Mr. Iaunder in Mauritius*should form part of the equipment of the expedition , but ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 69 , p. 256 .
Profs .
H. L. Callendar and A. [ Oct. 19 , towards the middle of May Mr. Maunder received an illvitation to join the Canadian expedition to Labrador , and it was agreed hat he should have the use of this coronagraph .
The replacement of an instrument for this work at so late a date was a serious embarrassment , but tunately the expedition was helped out of the clifficulty by the generosity of Dr. Copeland , who kindly placed at our disposal the 40-foot lens and direct-vision prism which he had successfully in 1898 and 1900 .
It was decided to use the instruments to Dr. Copeland 's plan , viz. , to use the lens alone as a onagraph during the greater part of totality , and con.jointly with the as a plismatic camera near the inning and of totality .
stead of pointing the instrument to the sun or using a stationary mirror , however , it was ) Ioposed to employ a and keep the camera horizontal , using stationary plates .
The equipment therefore consisted of\mdash ; ( i ) A Dallmeyer lens 38 feet 6 inches focal of 4-inch aperture .
( ii ) A .
prism , direct for , of about 4-inch clear aperture .
This was mounted on a platform in front of the objective , and could be inserted ithdrawn as required .
( iii ) A12-inch coelostat .
( iv ) A camera for use with above , as described ) In older to provide for the auge in of the reflected solal beam from the coelostat , was objective and plate-holdel should ) connected ether b rigid era body , in order that the be moved sympathetically .
This body was built up of pered lattice ( of mild steel ) for sides , with similar lattice top and bottom ; the whole unbolted into four flat pieces for transport .
end of this skeleton tube lined with a mahog box for a of about 4 feet .
The one the carried the objectglass , immediately in front of which the ) tform for supporting the .
At the wider end an adjnstal ) ) box , divided into a large and chanlbel by an ] inner artition , fit into lnahogan ; a , back , into which the -holder htte , was attached to of these chan ) , whilst smallcl uber provided ronnd glass at the end , the .
end ] ) , open to the objectthe of this latter portion is explained ) the xposures a need double-lia } ) shuttel was ; Eclipse to Castellon de la this was contained in the larger chamber , a few feet in front of the plate , and was operated by a lever .
As explained previously , it was intended that the prism should be drawn in front of the ob.-glass at the beginning and towards the end of totality , FIG. 8.\mdash ; Camera end of 40-foot Coronagraph and ismatic Camera . .
Repeating back and dark slide . .
Ground glass screen for observation of less refrangible part of spectrum . .
Handle for operating exposing shutter .
when pbotographs of the coronal and flash spectra were to be taken on plates inches , the longer edge in the direction of dispersion .
This length of raphic plate was only sufficient to include the spectrum from to some part in the ultra-violet , and tho visible portion of the spectrum fell on the ground glass attached to the small chamber on the right of the plate-holder ; hence the spectroscopic phases of the eclipse Profs .
H. L. Callendar and A. owler .
[ Oct. 19 , could be visually obsel.ved and simultaneously raphed ; by this means it was anticipated that the flash spectrum might secured both at the inning a of totality .
reater part of totality the prism to be removed , of the colona obtained 011 plates inches .
It is only to bc retted that the proved unfavourable , and that ratus above described ( not an ) portnnity of pnt into use novel points tested .
2 .
By E. H. When I arrived at , on August 16 , the coelostat had already been adjnsted ( the piers built for the t ) , but two days were occupied in the shutter and fiCting a ground glass for the visual observation of the red end of the spectrum as designed Mr. Shackleton .
It WflS decided to nse a ather t an eye-piece , it not such close observation , and would reater part of the spectrum to seen .
Horizontal lines were on the ground glass at the limits of the continuous spectrum as ) fur 6 before totality , to serve as time for the hole .
To accurately adjust these lines to the spectrum , the frame the ground glass was provided with a vertical motion and the necessary crews .
Another signal at 10 minutes before to be observed on the image of the sun , for which a circle of the same diameter , 4.3/ 16 inches , was on another piece of ground , and ) ular extent of the cusps , arked upon it .
This could have been snperposed on the sun 's ] the tinle so obtained .
To render the camera light-tight , 60 yards of teeu were Wl.apped in a spiral ] ound the frame , so that there esses evelywhere .
This was satisfactory .
Tn addition , ooden fiame was built tube to sheets , in order to off the direct of the difficulty was ) ] clock : tho in the canlera having ( motion of every minutes , with peliod screw .
the result of however , this red ) inch .
To this in in the the indlc ) filed on one side and ) of on the other , both driving ] so htly into driven by them to ) .
The ution of ) , without 1905 .
] Eclipse Expedition to de being done except the of the clock in the usual course of trials , may be attributed to the action of dust in the parts to a better fit .
\ldquo ; the objective was very easily and quickly done by observation at the camera end of the images of a small electric torch reflected the various surfaces of the lens .
Visual .
of the sun on the ground bolass was found to be ) rreatly facilitated by keeping the ground glass in motion .
By this means fine detail , such as the components of a dispersing sun spot , were otherwise comon the ground glass , became very useful for focussing npon .
This was in fact the only practicable method of focussing on the sun 's with the apparatus provided .
Attempts were made to obtain the actinic focus by direct exposure of very slow plates on the sun , but the results were unsatisfactory in consequence of over-exposure and air tremors , and recourse had to be made to photographing a star .
The htest that could be projected into the camera was and the results showed a close agreement between actinic and visual focus .
A thorough investigation of any diflerence between visual and actinic focus of such a lens might usefully be made before the departure of an expedition , as a temperature change of some 3 inches in the focal iength necessitates visual focussing just before exposure , with any allowance that may be required for difference between the two foci .
The definition of the lens and mirror combined left nothing to be desired , and would well repay greatest care taken with the mechanical adjustments .
It is also very desirable that the interesting point of change of focus with temperature should be fully inyestigated .
It may be useful to put on record the exposures which were decided upon .
They are given in " " eclipse times\ldquo ; in the following table , the duration of totality being 205 seconds .
Sir William Christie .
[ Oct. 16 , Sir William Abney 's intensity scales were impressed on the corona plates by the of a standard candle on the tFht before the eclipse .
Mention should be made of the fact that had the clouds cleared away sufficiently soon to allow of photographs being taken during totality , valuable time would have been required to set the properly in the camera , as the clock had no power to keep the in position during the necessary windings .
The general design of the apparatus was very satisfactory , ) a half-plate focal plane shutter , adapted for trial ) of the sun for poses , would be a valuable addition .
Total Eclipse of the Sun , 1905 , August 30 .
Account of the By Sir CHRISTI .B .
, Astronomer ( Received October 16 , 1905 .
) I. ts .
An expedition to observe the total solar ipse of August 30 been sanctioned by the Admiralty , it was arranged , in concert with the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee , that a party from the Royal Observatory should make at Sfax , a town on the north coast of Africa , about 150 miles south of Tunis .
The of observations consisted of photographs of the corona on various scales for coronal detail and streamers , and raphs of the spectrum of the corona and chromosphere .
The obscrvers from Greenwich who took in the expedition were Sir William Christie , Mr. Dyson , and Mr. l)avidson .
Professor Sampson , .
J. J. Atkinson , and ) Brett , D.S.O. , enerously volunteered their assistance and shared the work 01 ) adjusting the instruments as well as of observations on the day of the eclipse .
The Admiralty gave instructions that H.M. .
: Suffolk\ldquo ; should convey observers and strumettts from to Sfax and should assist in the reparations and in the observations on the dny of the eclipse .
The editio is reatly indebted to } ) tain 1 ) and to the officers and men of the ' Suffolk\ldquo ; their ssistance n co-opelatiolt .
We are indebted to M. Fidelle , Controletl antt Vice-Consul ( the tive of the French ) and to the Mayor and ality f

