206 Proceedings and List of Pagers read .
from an oxygen tube , a ley den jar and air space being introduced in the secondary circuit of the Ruhmkorff coil .
( See Plate 8 .
) This photograph shows the coincidence of stellar lines with the group of three strong oxygen lines , viz.:\#151 ; Neovius .
T. and H. Intensity .
4076-3 4076-19 9 4072-4 4072-34 9 4070-1 4070-24 8 and other neighbouring oxygen lines beyond the range of the three prism train .
The lines are all displaced towards the red by motion .
On March 15 the Earth by its motion round the Sun was receding from e Canis Minoris , with a velocity of 17 kilometres per second , which agrees with the direction of the displacement of the oxygen lines .
There has not yet been time to determine the constants of the single-prism spectroscope , but this does not affect the question of the identification of the oxygen lines in the spectrum of e Canis Majoris .
The plates of the spectra of / 3 Crucis and e Canis Majoris were exposed and developed by my assistant , Mr. J. Lunt .
June 1 , 1899 .
Annual Meeting for the Election of Fellows .
Professor T. G. BONNEY , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the Election of Fellows having been read , Dr. A. A. Common and Dr. J. H. Gladstone were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators , to assist the Secretaries in the examination of the balloting lists .
The votes of the Fellows present were collected , and the following Candidates were declared duly elected into the Society:\#151 ; Barrett , Professor William .
Booth , Charles , D.Sc .
Bruce , David , Major R.A.M.C. Fenton , Henry John Horstman , M.A. Gamble , James Sykes , M.A. Haddon , Professor Alfred Cort , M.A. Head , Henry , M.D. Hele-Shaw , Professor Henry Selby , M.Inst .
C.E. Morgan , Professor Conwy Lloyd , F.G.S. Reid , Clement , F.G.S. Starling , Ernest Henry , M.D. / Tanner , Professor Henry William Lloyd , M.A. Threlfall , Richard , M.A. Tutton , Alfred E. , B.Sc. Windle , Professor Bertram Coghill Allen , M.D. Thanks were given to the Scrutators .

