130 Mr. H. Lamb .
[ Apr. 5 , radiation carbonic acid is one of the most transparent of gases ; for the radiation from the hot carbonic acid produced in the carbonic oxide flame , it is the most opaque of all .
Again , for all ordinary sources of radiant heat , bisulphide of carbon , both in the liquid and vaporous form , is one of the most diathermanous bodies known .
I thought it worth while to try whether a body reputed to be analogous to carbonic acid , and , like it , so pervious to most kinds of heat , would show any change of deportment when presented to the radiation from hot carbonic acid .
Does the analogy between the two substances extend to the vibrating periods of their atoms ?
If it does , then the bisulphide , like the carbonic acid , will abandon its usually transparent character , and play the part of an opaque body , when presented to the radiation from the carbonic oxide flame .
This proves to be the case .
Of the radiation from hydrogen , a thin layer of bisulphide transmits 90 per cent. , absorbing only 10 .
For the radiation from carbonic acid , the same layer of bisulphide transmits only 25 per cent. , 75 per cent , being absorbed .
For this source of rays , indeed , the bisulphide transcends , as an absorbent , many substances which , for all other sources , far transcend it.* II .
" On Electrical Motions in a Spherical Conductor .
" By Horace Lamb , M.A. , formerly Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , Professor of Mathematics in the University of Adelaide .
Communicated by J. W. L. GLAISHER , M.A. , F.R.S. Received March 14,1883 .
( Abstract .
) This paper treats of the motions of electricity produced in a spherical conductor by any electric or magnetic operations outside it .
The investigation was undertaken some time ago in illustration of Maxwell 's theory of electricity .
This theory is so remarkable , more especially in the part which it assigns to dielectric media in the propagation of electro-magnetic effects , that it seemed worth while to attack some problem in which all the details of the electrical processes could be submitted to calculation , although it was evident * Nearly twenty years ago I observed , among other changes of diathermic position , the reversal of bisulphide of carbon and chloroform , when the pale blue flame of a Bunsen burner was the source of heat .
When , for example , the rays issued from a luminous jet of gas , the absorptions of the bisulphide and of chloroform were found to be 9'8 and 12 per cent , respectively j whereas when the Bunsen flame was employed , the absorptions of the same two substances were 11*1 and 6'2 per cent. The cause of this reversal doubtless is that in the Bunsen flame hot carbonic acid is the principal radiant .
( " Phil. Trans. , " 1864 , p. 852.)\#151 ; April 6 .
1883.3 On Electrical Motions in a Spherical .
131 beforehand from the researches of Helmholtz* and others that the results ( so far as they are peculiar to the theory ) would be of far too subtle a character to admit of comparison with experiment .
In studying the mathematical character of the problems above stated I was led to a certain system of formulae , which I have since utilised in two communications to the London Mathematical Society , f and which seem likely to be of use in a great variety of physical questions .
The first section consists mainly of a recital of the fundamental equations and of the conditions to be satisfied at the surface of a conductor .
It is assumed , in the first instance , that the magnetic susceptibility of the conductor is zero .
In S 2 is introduced the assumption that all our functions vary as eKt , where t is the time , and X a constant .
It is pointed out that this assumption is sufficiently general .
The fundamental equations are then put into a mathematically convenient form .
Before , however , proceeding to apply these equations as they stand , I examine the effect of assuming that the velocity ( v ) of propagation of electro-magnetic effects in the medium surrounding the conductor is practically infinite .
This assumption , which has been made by all writers ( including Maxwell himself ) who have applied Maxwell 's theory to ordinary electro-magnetic phenomena , greatly simplifies the calculations without sensibly impairing the practical value of the results .
If L stand for a linear dimension of the conductor and p for its specific resistance , it will appear in the sequel that when , as in all practical cases , X is small as compared with v/ Jj , the error introduced by the assumption in question is of the order \p/ v % .
For any ordinary metallic conductor .
, and for any value of X which can be appreciated experimentally , this fraction is excessively minute .
In S 3 the solutions of our equations ( on the assumption above indicated ) are given in the form appropriate to our present-problem .
These solutions are of two distinct types .
Those of the first type , which are much the more important from an experimental point of view , have ( I find ) been discussed , though by a different method , by Professor C. Niven , in a paper recently published .
J As the points to which attention has been directed are for the most part sufficiently distinct in the two investigations , I have allowed the corresponding portions of my paper to stand .
In S 4 I discuss the case of electric currents started anyhow in the sphere , and left to themselves .
The equation which gives the moduli of the natural modes of decay of the first type agrees with the result obtained by Professor Niven .
* Crelle , t. 72 ( 1870 ) .
+ ' On the Oscillations of a Viscous Spheroid , " " Proc. L. M. S. , " Nov. 10 , 1881 , and " On the Vibrations of an Electric Sphere , " May 11 , 1882 .
^ ^hil .
Trans. , ' 1882 .
The date of the paper is January , 1880 .
132 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
On Colouring-matters [ Apr. 5 , In S 5 is studied the ease of induced currents .
Since any disturbance in the field ( however arbitrary ) can be expressed , as regards the time , by a series of simple harmonic terms , it is sufficient to consider the case when the variations in the inducing system follow the simple harmonic law .
This case has , moreover , acquired a special interest since the invention of the telephone .
The two extreme cases , where the period of the variation in the field is very large or very small in comparison with the time of decay of free currents in the sphere , are discussed in some detail .
In S 6 the case of a thin spherical shell is briefly examined .
I next proceed to investigate what modifications must be introduced into the methods and the results of the preceding sections when the substance of the sphere is susceptible of magnetisation .
This occupies SS7 , 8 , 9 , 10 .
In the remaining sections of the paper I investigate the solution of our fundamental equations , taking account of the finite value of v. The corrections to our former results are of most interest in the solutions of the second type .
Although the preceding theory , based on the assumption v=oo , is sufficient for all purposes of comparison with experiment , there are certain processes of ( at all events ) theoretical interest of which it fails altogether to give an account , viz. , all those cases in which any change in the superficial electrification of the sphere takes place .
For the expression of these the solutions of the second type are appropriate .
There is no difficulty in working out the requisite formulae , but in the application to the case of free motion a difficulty of interpretation arises , which is noticed in the proper place .
III .
" Observations on the Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , on those of the Bile of Vertebrates , and on some unusual Urine Pigments , \amp ; c. " By Charles A. MacMunn , B.A. , M.D. Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received March 8 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the result of a systematic examination of the bile and various extracts of the livers of Mollusca and Arthropoda , and of the pyloric or radial cseca and other appendages of the digestive system of Echinodermata is described .
The universal distribution of one colouring-matter , which by appropriate experiments is1 shown to be a chlorophyll pigment , is proved .
It occurs in the above organs and can be detected in the bile of specimens of Helix after a six months ' fast ;

