184 Dr. G. Thin on the Anatomy [ Jan. 2\ ) and due to the more or less combined play of these conditions .
He then proceeds to develop , as a consequence of the general law , the production of curved prisms , or those with apparently bent axes , which are observed in almost all basaltic countries .
If the cooling mass of basalt be in one of its vertical sections of such a form that successive isothermal couches .
taken in descending order , are not parallel to the original cooling surface !
as they are in all cases of straight and parallel prisms , but divergent gradually from the cooling surface and from each other , then the lines of splitting of the prisms , always normal to these couches , must be curved in one direction .
This will be true whether the isothermal couches be plane surfaces divergent from a thinner to a thicker part of the mass , or whether they be curved surfaces arising from the mass reposing on a curved bottom and diverging in like manner .
This explanation of the production of curved prisms , without the necessary intervention of external mechanical forces having bent into curves prisms originally formed straight , is , the author believes , here for the first time presented .
He shows that great difficulties exist to the supposition that curved prisms are ever the result of the bending of prisms originally straight by extraneous mechanical effort .
The author having thus shown that all the salient phenomena presented iq nature by the forms , jointings , positions of the prisms , \amp ; c. of columnar basalt are accounted for as consequences of contraction in cooling , submits that this solution given by him must be the true one .
He , however , proceeds to examine at some length the different views of those who have imagined that prismatic and jointed basalt has resulted from the squeezing together , by some wholly imaginary external force , of spheroidal masses more or less resembling those known as " onion stones , " or so-called concretionary spheroids , such as those imagined by Mr. Gregory Watt .
The author submits all points of the subject to a searching examination , and points out that , upon the only probable suppositions that can be made as to the prearrangement of such spheroids , no extraneous force of compression could produce prisms at all , but must squeeze the spheroids instead into rhombic dodecahedrons .
II .
" On the Anatomy of the Connective Tissues .
" By G. Thin , M.D. Communicated by Prof. Huxley , Sec. R.S. B-e ' ceived December 23 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) Transparent animal tissues , when sealed up fresh in aqueous humoui or blood-serum , by running Brunswick black round the edge of the cover glass , undergo a series of slow changes , by which , generally within a pc\#174 ; of 2 to 5 days , anatomical elements mostly otherwise invisible b 175 .
] of the Connective Tissues .
185 tfcinct .
The paper is chiefly a record of observations made by this method . !
\amp ; author shows :\#151 ; - .
After a horizontal section of the cornea has been sealed up for about 2hours , the stellate branched cells are seen to consist of a mass of pro-tdasma , sharply defined on every side , except where it is continued for scarcely perceptible distance into the processes .
The nucleus is flatbed .
The processes become very fine , glistening , and thread-like uost immediately after leaving the cell , and , by dividing and anasto-using with the processes of other cells , form a rich and very delicate at work .
2 .
It sometimes happens , although only in rare instances , that , in gold reparations , fine dark lines extend between the nuclei , and correspond in odine and course with the processes seen in the aqueous humour ; and it i-hen evident that they are surrounded by the dark-coloured tracts which rm the ordinary network seen in gold preparations , and which corre-tmd , in outline and varying degree of development in different animals , 33S , and pathological conditions , with the corneal spaces .
3 .
Similar appearances to those described in paragraph 1 are seen in tjtions of cornea which have been 5 to 10 days sealed up in a 10-per-ot .
solution of common salt .
4 .
The quadrangular and long narrow flat cells shown by the author i exist in the cornea , by means of a saturated solution of potash , are also udered visible by the above method .
They are best seen in oblique ctions , from which , after 2 to 5 days , they fall out singly and in rows , row of the long narrow cells is often seen to terminate in quadrangular Us at either end .
These cells have a perfectly hyaline appearance ; eir nucleus has a very faint yellowish tinge , and projects beyond the \gt ; rfaee of the cell .
In exceptional instances , in the uncut cornea of the frog , the long *t cells may be seen , after several days ' maceration , lying on the primary ndles .
5 .
In tendon , flat masses of cells are found , on the third to fifth day , ing on the edge of the preparation and free in the fluid .
The cells are curately fitted to each other , after the manner of an epithelium .
In .e tendo Achillis of the frog they are seen of three sizes \#151 ; ( a ) large 11s , corresponding to the flat cells seen on the surface by nitrate of lver ; ( 6 ) smaller quadrangular cells , similar in size to those described t Ranvier , and which have been described by the author as investing the icondary and tertiary bundles in double layers ; and ( c ) long , narrow , at cells , similar to those described by the author as being isolable by otash , and as covering the primary bundles .
The masses of the cells of the surface , and of the secondary and ter-ary bundles , can be usually seen to consist of a double layer separated by very thin transparent medium .
6 .
The perimysium and neurilemma are respectively represented by a Q 2 186 On the Anatomy of the Connective Tissues .
[ Jan. 21 , double layer of quadrangular and hexagonal cells , identical in general appearance with an epithelium .
Between the two layers there is a thin transparent medium .
7 .
From the neurilemma of the sciatic nerve of the frog , when cut b narrow longitudinal strips , after a few hours , branched cells of different types of form are seen isolated in the fluid near the cut edges .
These cells are of two well-marked general types .
In one a small smooth-contoured elongated mass of protoplasma is continuous at both ends with a fine long thread-like fibre ; in another an irregularly contoured , but generally somewhat elongated , mass gives off numerous sharply defined very fine glistening fibres in all directions .
Sometimes a protoplasmic centre terminates at one end by a single fibre , and by two at the other These fibres are often of great length , and the protoplasmic mass cai sometimes only be found by carefully tracing them whilst moving the object-glass .
8 .
Fibrillary tissue is seen to be composed of uniform flat , ribbon-likc bands , whose breadth approaches the diameter of a human red blood corpuscle .
These are seen in their simplest form when extruded from th neurilemma of the sciatic nerve of the frog , which takes place withii 24 hours ' maceration .
From their position in this membrane they fora part of the transparent medium which exists between the two layers c quadrangular cells .
They are mostly marked by a puckered appearanc transversely .
In skin and tendon , after a few days ' maceration in the sealed fluio the fibrillary tissue is seen to be composed of extremely fine but sharp !
contoured fibrillae , arranged in parallel bands , which are of the sam breadth as the soft ribbon-like bands which are isolable from the neur lemma .
The respective appearances in the neurilemma and in tendon indicat extremes in the condition of this tissue , and represent , according to tl author , primary bundles of connective tissue .
9 .
The primary bundles of the cornea are seen only exceptionally 1 this method , but can be demonstrated with great precision by sealing u a frog 's cornea in a mixture of equal parts of half-per-cent , solution \lt ; chloride of gold and concentrated acetic acid .
10 .
In nerve-bundles , after 24 hours ' maceration in aqueous humou some of the medullated fibres may be seen to have their contour broke transversely by straight hyaline spaces .
The author assigns this appeal ance to the peculiarity of structure described by Banvier .
11 .
The breadth and appearance of the rods of the frog 's retina ai nearly identical with those of the primary bundles of the neurilemma .
The transverse markings described by Ma y Schultze as being produce by the action of osmic acid on the rods and cones , resemble the transver puckerings in the primary bundles .
In both rods and primary bundle after prolonged maceration in aqueous humour , the free ends of each ind $75 .
] On the Theory of Ventilation .
dual element bend in one direction until they join , and the substance of |e ring thus formed undergoes in both a similar and peculiar process | disintegration .
From these facts the author infers that the rods id cones of the retina are composed of fibrillary tissue in its simplest rm .
12 .
Transverse sections of muscular fibre , when examined at intervals , iow varying appearances , only a small minority of such preparations jing successful .
Successful preparations show one or more of three ppearances :\#151 ; ( a ) primary bundles , corresponding to Cohnheim 's fields ; ) groups of these ( secondary bundles ) , the aggregate of which fill up ie space bounded by the sarcolemma ; ( c ) a threadwork of fine fibres irrounding the primary bundles , in meshes .
13 .
Examination of connective tissue , in various stages of inflamma-on , yields strongly confirmatory evidence in favour of the interpretation iven by the author to the appearances above described .
January 28 , 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for bem .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; [ .
" On the Theory of Ventilation : an attempt to establish a positive basis for the calculation of the amount of Fresh Air required for an Inhabited Air-space/ * By Surgeon-Major F. de Chaumont , M.D. , Assistant Professor of Hygiene , Army Medical School .
Communicated by Prof. Parks , M.D. , F.R.S. Received November 18 , 1874 .
The question of ventilation , and the amount of fresh air required to keep an inhabited air-space in a sweet and healthy condition , has been much discussed of late years , and very fully treated of by various writers ; but there was a good deal of vagueness and want of precision in the manner of treatment previous to the Report of the Committee on Metropolitan Workhouse Infirmaries in 1867 .
In a paper in the \#171 ; Lancet ' in 18661 attempted to show that a more scientific method might be employed , and suggested some formulae , which were quoted by Dr. Parks in a paper appended to the Report above mentioned .
Professor Donkin also investigated the question there , and in a short but exhaustive paper showed

