" Experimental Researches on the mode of operation of Poisons .
" By James Blake , Esq. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. In this paper the author examines more particularly the action of those poisons which appear to produce death by affeeting the nervous system .
After reviewing the evidence adduced in support of the opinion , that the effects of some poisons are owing to an impression made on the nerves of the part to which they are directly applied , he proceeds to relate a series of experiments undertaken in order to show with what rapidity the blood is circulated through the body , and tending to prove , that a substance may be generally diffused through the system in nine seconds after its introduction into the veins .
Experiments are then related in which the more rapidly fatal poi ?
sons had been used , and in which it was found , that an interval of more than nine seconds always elapsed , between the administration of a poison , and the appearance of the first symptoms of its action .
The mere contact of a poison with a large surface of the body appears to be insufficient to give rise to general effects , as long as it is prevented from entering into the general circulation .
Various causes of fallacy in experiments of a similar kind , which have been adduced in support of an opposite opinion , are pointed out .
The following is a summary of the conclusions arrived at by the author .
1 .
The time required for a substance to penetrate the capillary vessels , may be considered as inappreciable .
2 .
The interval elapsing between the absorption of a substance by the capillaries , and its general diffusion through the body , may not exceed nine seconds .
3 .
An interval of more than nine seconds always elapses between the introduction of a poison , into the capillaries , or veins , and the appearance of its first effects .
4 .
If a poison be introduced into a part of the vascular system nearer the nervous centres , its effects are produced more rapidly .
5 .
The contact of a poison with a large surface of the body is not sufficient to give rise to general symptoms , as long as its diffu ?
sion through the body is prevented .

