6 : E P GH I O Q D K C N 13 E ~B D~F R~ G M S C LA B E 12 : FPN 2 .
G D 14 : 15 : OP CT QV B A ab 7 .
8 .
2 .
An Account of Insects in the Barks of decaying Elms and Ashes .
In a Letter from Sir Matthew Dudley , Knight , F. R. S. Clapton in Northamptonshire , October , 15 .
1704 A Bout 5 or 6 years since , I removed divers Elms , more than six inches Diameter , which for the first two or three years all thrived very well ; but two or three years ago there happening a very dry time in July or August , I observed one of those Elms , which stood very shallow , and on pretty high ground , looked very sick ; the Leaves turned yellow , and began to fall off ; which made me with a Knife examine the Bark .
I found the inside thereof not so green , but of a more reddish colour than the others ; and between it and the Tree not so moist , and the Bark sticking very close to the Wood : But what was most remarkable , I discerned a great many little black Flies of the Beetle kind ( viz. having a hard Case , under which their thin long Wings were contracted , and therewith covered ) between the Bark and the Tree : And looking more carefully , I observed these Flies had made their way thither by piercing the Bark in innumerable places , easily discernable on the outside and was about the bigness of a large Pin hole , or rather such as a large Pins head would go into ; some I found Hhhhhhhhhhh just just entring , who had not got quite through the Bark , others had made some progress between the Tree and the Bark , which appeared as a Channel .
I despaired of recovering the Tree ; however , my Servants being Watering others , I caused them to bestow about two Hogsheads on this Tree , with stirring the Earth about the Roots , and laying some half rotten Litter thereon , to defend it from the scorching Rays of the Sun : Upon this the Tree in some manner recovered its Verdure again that year , and the next year made very good Shoots , and so continued until this year .
But this being a very dry Summer , I discerned divers of my Trees in the beginning of August to look sick , and particularly the Tree formerly mentioned ; I made the same trial on them all , and found the Bark sticking close to the Tree , with but little moisture between , and vast numbers of those little Flies , who had pierced the Bark in multitudes of places .
I ordered the Earth about the Roots to be loosened as formerly , and about two Hogsheads of Water to be poured on each , and viewing them the next morning , I found the outside of the Tree almost covered with Bees and Walps , and great black Flies , such as they usually call Flesh-flyes ; who were all busy in sucking the Juice or Sap , which plentifully run out at every hole , that the little Flies formerly mentioned had made in the Bark , and which was very Glutinous , and sweet as Honey .
I again examined the Bark , and found it very moist between it and the Wood , and all those little Flies either gone , or drowned in their new habitation , by the sudden rise of the Sap ; this Tree recovered .
Upon Examination of several Trees , which looked sicker than the rest , I found almost all greenness had left the Bark , and there remained no moisture between it and the Wood ; but the Bark stuck so close to the Wood it was hardly to be parted : And throughout the whole Tree the Bark was pierced by the aforementioned little Flies , who from the hole at which they entered , had made each of them a strait perpendicular Channel from their entrance upwards , about two inches long , or something more , very little , if at all , bigger than just to move themselves strait forwards in ; for I observed they all of them , if disturbed , came out backwards .
All along on each side this Channel , as close the one to the other as they well could , so as yet to be distinct , there were small Channels running Horizontally from it , in every one of which at the extremity thereof there was a Maggot , in size just the bigness of the small Channel , very lively , whitish , and almost transparent .
These Trees , tho well Watered , received no benefit thereby , but dyed .
It is to be observed , that in those Trees whose Leaves looked Green and Healthful , there was none of these Flies to be found .
The Reason of which I presume to be , that whilst there was a sufficient Moisture in the Earth about the Roots , to supply the Tree with a due quantity of Sap , so thin and diluted that it was proper , and capable of being conveyed into the smallest Twigs and Leaf-vessels , the Leaves kept their Verdure , and the Tree flourished : But when , by reason of the .
dry season , that supply failed , and the Sun perpetually exhaling the thinnest and more watery parts thereof through the Bark , the Sap already in the Tree became insufficient in quantity , as well as improper , by reason of its thickness , to supply or enter into all those small Vessels .
The Leaves lost their Greenness , and fell off , and the Sap became thick and very sweet , ( which I have found it is not when it is duly diluted , and the Tree in good health ; ) this invited those Flies to make their way to it , as a proper Nursery to bring up their young ones ; which I take those little Maggots to be .
I presume also , that the Eggs were first laid in the Hhhhhhhhhhh2 great great Channel , ( and , it may be , regularly placed at their due distances , in the sides thereof ) and after being hatched , made those small Channels themselves ; since those small Channels are no way capable of receiving the Old Fly , and that the Maggot is always found at the farther end of the little Channel , and the rest of the little Channel is perfectly filled with very small Particles , which , when dry , became fine Dust ; and I conceive to be either the Excrements of the Worm , or parts of the Bark ground small by the Teeth of the Worm , to make its way forwards , and rejected as not proper Aliment , or both .
About the middle of October I found those little white Maggots , and consequently their Channels , which they exactly filled , were grown much bigger , and had made their progress from the place where they were first hatch ed , which was close to , or upon the very Wood of the Tree , almost to the very outside of the Bark of the Elm , which is usually pretty thick ; and in every one of those Perpendicular Channels before mentioned , I found the Mother Fly lying dead , for the most part towards the entrance of the said Channel .
These Observations put me upon viewing the Wood , which lay in my Yard for Timber or Fewel , and in all the Elm which was felied last Spring , I found the Bark thereof as much pierced ; the same Mother Channel , which for distinction sake , I beg leave still , tho improperly , to call Perpendicular ( for these Trees lay on the Ground ) and the same little ( now as improperly called Horizontal ) Channel proceeding from the Mother Channels full of Maggots , which Maggots had also made their way almost to the outside of the Bark .
Observing some Elm , which had lain much longer in the Yard , and taking off the Bark , I found the same tracks both of Mother Fly and Maggots ; and that at the extremities of almost all the Horizontal Channels made by the Maggots ; where they had subsisted long enough to come to any perfection , the Bark was pierced quite through , by a nole just ~ of the Channel , and nothing left remaining , but a sort of a whitish pretty tough Skin , exactly these our and size of the Maggot , at the mouth or the hole and the rest of the forsaken Channel perfectly filled with what I formerly persum 'd to call the Excrement of the Maggot .
Then I examined the Ash-wood , which had lain some time in the Yard , and at first sight , it being young , and its Bark pretty smooth , I perceived it full of small holes ; and on separating it from the Tree , I found just the same sort of work as in the Elm , and by the same sort of Fly , having found several of the Mother Flies dead in their Channels , and the same empty Skins at the extremities of the other Channels ; only with this difference , that whereas in the Elm all the Mother Channels were Perpendicular , and the Maggot Channels Horizontal , here in the Ash it was just contrary , all the Mother Channels were Hori zontal , and the Maggot Channels Perpendicular ; this I at first thought might be accidental , and peculiar to that piece of Wood , but on examination of above 100 pieces of Wood of different Trees , and felled at different times , I found it exactly to hold true in them all .
I observed several Oak and Maple Trees , which had been felled some in Winter and some in Summer , and the Bark remaining thereon , but could find no such thing in either of them .
Explanation of the Figures in Tab. 2 .
Fig. 1 .
shows the Bark of Ash .
Fig. 2 .
The Bark of ElmFig .
3 .
The Worm as big as the Life lying on its Back .
Fig. 4 .
The Mother Fly , with its Belly upwards , as big as the Life .
Fig. 5 .
&amp; 6 .
The Worm and the Fly with their Backs upward Fig. 7 .
&amp; 9 .
The Worm Magnified .
Fig. 8 .
The Mother Fly Magnified .

