VII .
" Spectroscopic Observations of the Sun " ( continued ) .
By Lieut. J. HERSCHEL , in a Letter addressed to W. HUGGINS , F.R.S , Communicated by Mr. HIGGINS .
Received June 10 , 1869 .
Bangalore , May 7 , 1869 .
MY DEAR SIR , -After what I wrote to you last week you will scarcely be surprised to hear again from me on the same subject ; and indeed I feel in some measure bound to communicate without delay results of fur there and more successful observations .
Should you think fit to publish them , I hope you will do so , as I cannot command the necessary leisure to follow them up myself to their legitimate conclusion .
On the 3rd instant I learnt ( as I informed you ) that the spectrum of the solar envelope was visible with the spectroscope at my command , apparently without difficulty .
On the following day I saw the same phenomena , and was enabled to form a fair mental picture of the distribution of the luminous regions surrounding the sun .
Two very fine prominences were particularly examined , one of which was evidently a large cloud floating 1 ' to 2 ' above the surface .
On the 5th , while traversing over a new prominence to learn its shape and dimensions , I becare aware of a fourth line in the neighbourhood of G. Its position was determined without difficulty with reference to the rest of that crowded group of solar lines .
It was identical with the thick line at 2796 of Kirchhoff 's chart .
I have seen the same line repeatedly since , and have satisfied myself of the identity stated .
It rained pretty heavily on the night of the 5th ; and the next morning I was disappointed by seeing no remarkable prominences , and but faint indications , in many parts , of the solar envelope .
In the afternoon , however , the air , I suppose , being clearer , I could again see the luminous spectrum in nearly every part .
But there were very few elevated masses .
Having traversed round the whole circumference , I returned , after perhaps an hour 's search , to examine again a moderately striking elevation which I had no. ticed at setting out ; and for this purpose I directed the slit as a tangent to the surface at the place the most favourable position for getting a good view of the lines .
Immediately I remarked that the red line was very brilliant , and glancing up the spectrum saw that the orange and blue lines were also much more intense than usual .
My eye was next caught by a fainter red flash , which I soon succeeded in seeing more steadily .
Concluding that it was the line which Mr. Lockyer had seen " occasionally , " I only staid to estimate its position , and proceeded to bring the violet end into the field to have another look at the line in that region and to see F to better advantage .
In so doing I noticed another line ( the sixth ) between F and G. Before going any further I must take the liberty of christening these lines for reference .
Leaving a and / for C and F if wanted , I would call the orange line near D $ , the violet one y , the red line near C e , and the last mentioned S. The solar bright-line series is then as follows:a C ... ... ... ... Kirchhoff 's 694 = F ... ... ... ... . .
, 2080 3 near D ... ... ... . .
, , 1014 very nearly .
y near G ... ... ..* .
, , 2796 e near C ... ... . .
, , 655 about .
r between F and G. .
, 5 2596 nearly .
The position of e is estimated ; for there are no visible solar lines between B and C ( in my spectroscope ) , and because by the time I was ready to go back and measure it ( b having already faded ) it was no longer to be seen ; and as the other lines had visibly decreased in brilliancy , I could only conclude that I had been a fortunate witness of the effects of a violent and spasmodic action or eruption of vapour lasting only a few minutes .
Nor did I see any recurrence of this spectacle , though I watched for some time .
I should here state that I was looking at this time at a very low stratum , and that the line y is rarely visible except quite close to the sun 's limb ; F also is not generally brilliant , except near the limb .
3 is never ( so far as I have seen ) so brilliant as either C or F. I have said that these appearances are to be seen without any defence from excessive light ; and this is strictly true , for I have seen them readily , even when the paper cap which I at first used over the object-glass was removed ; but as a precaution against the heating-effects of the sun 's image , I have latterly used metal diaphragms , one of --inch diameter , 12 inches , and a second of *'-inch diameter , 1 to 2 inches distant from the slit .
When these had been inserted I dispensed with any cover for the object-glass .
I was in hopes that , by carefully stopping out all unnecessary light in this way , I should be able to dispense with a slit , and view the monochromatic images of a protuberance on the white background ( so to speak ) of the atmospheric illumination .
But so far I have been disappointed .
Nevertheless I still believe that whoever will go a step further and use a red glass prism without a slit will see the actual " red flames .
" [ When writing my eclipse-report I was under the impression that the orange was the principal light ( v. ? ?
43 ) .
] This much of foundation I have for this belief , that I actually have seen the form of a solar cloud through a widely distended slit-not a luminous line of varying length and position , but a view such as you may obtain through a partly open shutter by moving the head slightly to and fro , only that the movement was in this case effected by a gentle pressure up and down of the telescope itselfa movement rendered possible by the absence of perfect rigidity of the instrument .
In this way I could see clearly that the solar clouds were very similar to terrestrial ones , fleecy , irregularly shaped , and illuminated , &amp;c. , just as eclipses have told us they are .
The opening through which I viewed them was about I of a minute in width , and the height and length of the mass 1and 3 minutes respectively , or thereabouts .
After this I need not describe the appearances of the lines , the less so as I fully expect that , once the ready visibility of these appearances becomes realized , numerous accounts of such eruptions as I saw yesterday , as well as of the real forms and appearances which they present , will be forthcoming from observers who can better spare the necessary daylight hours .
May 8.-This morning I received , and read with deep interest , your article in the ' Journal of Science .
' Had I received it a week ago , my =note of the 3rd would have been differently worded .
On the other hand , it is clear that some of the facts I have stated above are still legitimate subjects for communication , and will probably lead to further discoveries .
The new lines may or may not have been since seen by Mr. Lockyer .
In the former case the corroboration will be worth something the more so as his secondary red line , as mentioned in Mr. Crookes 's article in the January No. of the 'Journal of Science , ' is apparently misplaced .
This line , as also those I have called 3 and 4 , does not appear to coincide with any known solar line .
The elementary substances to which these belong remain yet to be declared .
As for y , I suppose the strong solar line to which it corresponds belongs to some known element .
I have not remarked any tendency in F to vary in width .
It cannot but be considered strange that no traces have been seen of M. Ilayet 's and Major Tennant 's green lines .
I have watched that part of the spectrum very closely on purpose , but , even where the four principal lines were more than ordinarily bright , I have failed to distinguish even the slightest fading of the strong magnesium lines , or of others in that neighbourhood .
This fading invariably precedes the substitution of a bright for a dark line : thus , if the slit admits to view the tops of several adjacent prominences , the line F ( for instance ) is broken into detached bright portions , between which there is in each case a more or less complete hiatus , which may or may not amount to the original dark solar line .
The dark line , being only a less intense light , is susceptible of all degrees of darkness , just as the bright line , being only a more intense light , may appear of all lower degrees of brightness .
This intermediate condition between dark and bright is constantly to be recognized , more or less strongly marked , within the sun 's border ; but I cannot say I have seen a continuation of the bright line inwards .
I often see this absence of the dark line y when the light is not intense enough to show it as a " bright " line .
So far , then , as regards the magnesium element I have strong negative evidence , which is strengthened by the consideration of the improbability that such a very marked group should not have been recognized by the above-mentioned observers if it was actually present , on the one hand , and that the element should have been represented by a single member only of this group , on the other .
The confident way in which this metal has been accepted as recognized , by more than one speculator , seems to challenge question on the evidence .
And I would take the present opportunity to remark that , after the studied avoidance ( on my part ) of such hasty conclusions , I have felt it rather hard to be set right where I had not erred , as in the case of the orange line .
I never said that a line , apparently identical though it was with D , represented sodium .
One writer , if I recollect right , made me responsible , not only for sodium and hydrogen , but for magnesium as well Neither word even occurs in my report , except incidentally in the words " a sodium-flame .
" The exceeding care which I observe in your own writings in this respect will , I hope , make it unnecessary for me to apologize for this protest .
To return : I do not question the presence of an element giving a green line ; the testimony of three observers must be taken as conclusive ; but I am slow to believe that either E or b is connected with it .
This afternoon I made a slight advance towards seeing the actual forms with greater comfort .
Taking a hint from your figure ( p. 216 of the above article ) , I introduced one of the compound prisms of the hand-spectroscopes into the eye-tube , thus increasing the dispersion by about one-fourth , which enabled me to open the slit a little wider .
Finding a suitable prominence , I was able to examine it with an aperture of about 20 " to 25 " .
As it was not much more than 1 ' in height , I could , by a slight pressure one way or the other , view the whole .
It is of\ course wholly unimporC - " .
taut what the actual form was , but , for the sake of , , , illustration , I attempt a3 drawing .
It is not easy v to convey the impression of a fleecy cloud such as .
I saw .
I looked at one or two others in the same way , and left off eventually quite satisfied that with a suitable battery the whole of any prominence or eruption might be seen with comfort ( either the red , or the orange , or the blue , or any other principal image being examined at will ) by limiting the field of view , and with it the unnecessary diffuse light , to the actual dimensions of the object .
The portion of a cloud-shape which is due to one element will thus be artificially separated from the form which is due to another , and the regions or strata to which the various elements are confined will become known with certainty * .
It is unfortunately impossible for me to prosecute these researches any further .
I have neither the leisure nor the opportunity to devise and use suitable instruments except at rare intervals , for which such discoveries will not wait .
Yours very truly , J. HERSCHEEL , Lt. R.E. , As an instance of this kind , I may point to Captain Haig 's observations with the hand-spectroscope .
As this instrument has no slit , his " bands " mean the coloured repetitions of the line of sierra or low clouds fringing the moon 's limb at the point , only that with so low a power , and amid the confusion of images , he did not recognize ( apparently ) the similarity of general outline of the differently coloured images .
Hence the term " bands , " which has misled at least one reviewer into inferring a slit , and thereby immensely overrating the scope of these instruments .
r , IT .

