Observations on the Changes which have taken place in some ancient Alloys of Copper .
By John Davy , M.D. F.R.S. In a Letter to Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read November 17 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part II .
p. 55 .
] Dr. Davy first describes the nature of an incrustation upon an ancient helmet found in a shallow part of the sea , between the citadel of Corfu and the village of Castrades .
The surface was of a variegated colour , mottled with spots of green , dirty white , and red .
The red and green patches exhibited minute crystals of red oxide of copper , and metallic copper ; and were further composed of its green submuriate and carbonate .
The dirty white parts consisted chiefly of oxide of tin .
These new combinations are only superficially produced ; the metal was found bright beneath , and consisted of copper alloyed with 18 5 parts of tin .
An ancient nail from a tomb in Ithaca , and a mirror from a tomb at Samos , in Cephalonia , afforded nearly similar but less distinctly crystalline results .
The copper in the mirror was alloyed with 6 per cent. of tin , and a minute portion of arsenic .
'259 The examination of the incrustation upon ancient coins showed it to consist of oxide of tin , and of carbonate and submuriate of tin , and of carbonate and submuriate of copper .
It in some cases acquires a dingy hue from the prevalence of black oxide of copper , mixed with a little of its protoxide .
The author could discover no connexion between the perfect state of preservation of ancient coins , and their composition ; but he observes that the manner in which the crystalline structure of the incrustation is acquired is a peculiarly interesting question .
''There being no reason to suspect deposition from solution , " are we not , " says the author , " ( under the necessity of inferring , that the mineralizing process witnessed in its effects , depends on a slow motion and separation of the particles of the original compound ?
And must we not conclude that this motion is connected with the operation of attractions of different kinds , as chemical affinity , electro-chemical attraction , and attraction of aggregation ?
" If this conclusion be just , the author remarks that it opens a new field of inquiry , which may help to explain several phenomena in mineralogy and geology .

