On the Anatomy of the Mole-cricket .
By J. Kidd , M.D. and F.R.S. Reg. Prof. of Medicine in the University of Oxford .
Read February 3 and February 10 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 203 .
] The insect described in this paper is common in certain peat bogs a few miles west of Oxford , and is found within 18 inches of the surface .
Like the mole , its limbs are particularly calculated for burrowing ; and to prevent the necessity of its excavating a passage large enough to admit of its turning round , it has the power of moving as easily in a retrograde as in a progressive direction .
Its colour closely resembles that of the mould in which it lives ; and in common with many other insects , it has the power of assuming a lifeless appearance when suddenly disturbed .
Having kept some of them in glass vessels for several weeks , the author remarked that they preferred the potato to other vegetable food , but that they attacked raw meat with especial greediness , and upon emergency attacked each other , in which case the victor soon devoured the fleshy and soft parts of the vanquished .
But although they are very voracious , they are equally remarkable for their power of abstaining from food , and have beern kept alive for nine or ten months in garden mould without the possibility of obtaining any other nourishment than such as it might contain .
Having noticed the general habitudes and characters of the insect , Dr. Kidd proceeds to describe its separate parts , and enumerates the peculiarities of the head , thorax , and abdomen .
The digestive organs , he observes , more closely resemble those of a graminivorous bird than of any other animal ; the oesophagus terminating in a large oval crop , communicating by a muscular tube with the gizzard , which is nearly spherical , and has a thick external muscular coat lined by a glandular membrane , the inner surface of which is divided longitudinally into six equal parts , each furnished with three series of serrated teeth of the hardness of tortoiseshell , and amounting in all to 270 .
In his description of the organs of respiration of the Gryllotalpa , D. Kidd states , that ten stigmata are distinctly visible oil each side of the body .
The first of these , situated near the lower part of the posterior ridge of the thorax , is not like the others a mere dot or point , but an elongated fissure , apparently connected with all the trachene both of the thorax and head .
To demonstrate the distribution of the tracheae , the insect was dried in an exhausted receiver , containing muriate of lime , a method applicable to many delicate --atomical preparations ; they penetrate every part of the body , and are possibly , in the author 's opinion , the instruments of sanguineous circulation in insects , absorbing the blood in the first instance from the internal surface of the alimentary canal , and thence conveying it over the body .
No difficulty , he apprehends , attaches to the supposition that such an absorption may take place , seeing that innumerable minute ramifications of the tracheae penetrate the intestinal canal to every part .
If , he continues , it should be urged that the tracheae are not found charged with blood after the death of the animal , it may be answered , that the arteries are found empty after death in the higher orders of animals .
He adds , that he has seen some of the ramifications of those tracheae which are connected with the ceeca , distended with a fluid of the same colour as that found in those organs ; and though he has only witnessed this in two instances , yet such a fact even singly taken , must be allowed to be of considerable importance .
The author then adverts to the objections which may be urged against the hypothesis of the transudation of chyle through the coats of the intestines , trusting that his opinion of a sanguineous circulation in insects will not be hastily rejected ; and concludes his paper with a description of the nerves and of the sexual organs of the insect ; and with some remarlks upon the organ of sound , which he considers as produced by the wings , and in no way connected with a peculiar tense membrane , situated between the fourth and fifth stigma on each side of the abdomen .

