360 Mr. J. B. Hay craft .
Upon the Cause of [ r eb .
3 , February 3 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. Monntstuart Elphinstone Grant Duff , whose certificate had been suspended as required by the Statutes , was balloted for and elected a Eellow of the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I* " Upon the Cause of the Striation of Voluntary Muscular Tissue/ ' By John Berry Hayoraft , M.B. , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. , Senior Physiological Demonstrator in the University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by Dr. Klein , F.R.S. Received December 1 , 1880 .
[ Plate 5 .
] The structure of striated muscular tissue has occupied the attention of many histologists , and various , often antagonistic , have been the views held from time to time since Schwann first investigated this difficult subject .
I bring forward with much caution and hesitation any opinions of my own , nor should X venture thus far , did I not consider my views susceptible of direct proof , or disproof , not being matters of mere speculation , which may or may not be true , and which would tend , by their introduction to the literature of the subject , to make confusion worse confounded .
In this paper an attempt will be made to account for many of the observed structural phenomena of muscle on simple laws of geometrical optics , which will , if it be successful , reduce the subject to comparative simplicity .
I shall commence by giving a sketch of the views of those physiologists who have especially written upon the structure of muscle .
This must not be looked upon as a complete history , for I shall leave out entirely points which do not concern us here .
A. Short Historical Shetch of the Views held upon the Structure of Striated Muscle.\#151 ; The writings of Mr. Bowman form the most im1881 .
] the Striation of Voluntary Muscular Tissue .
361 portant and brilliant contributions to the literature of this subject , land taking him as a landmark , it is convenient to speak of investigators before or after bis time .
Among the former Schwann , quoted by Muller ( " Physiology , " translation by Baly , vol. ii , p. 878 ) , describes the striated voluntary fibre , indicating its shape and size .
The cross 'markings were observed by him , and , indeed , with one or two remarkable exceptions , by all the early observers ( Lauth and Wagner , in Muller 's " Archiv fur Anatomy und Physiologie , und Wissenscb attache Medicin , " pp. 4 and 318 , of the year 1835 ) .
Schwann , with Bauer , Krause , Muller , Home , Valentin , and Milne Edwards recognised the important fact that each fibre is composed ' of a number of threads or fibrillae , packed side by side and joined together by a transparent tenacious fluid ( Krause ) , and , moreover , that these threads or fibrillae are cross striated , as is the fibre itself. .
Although Schultze describes the fibrillae as being uniform filaments , he is alone in* this opinion , most of his contemporaries recognising the beaded aopearance.* The beaded thread was the cause of some dispute , for the question arose , was it a linear series of globules or a moniliform filament ?
and the final settlement of this must , indeed , have been a matter of great difficulty to those older savants , when'we consider the imperfect lenses at their disposal .
Krause and others maintained the former view , while Schwann held that which subsequent investigators have shown to be the correct one .
The fibrillae , according to Schwann , present a very regular succession of bead-like enlargements , darker than the very short constrictions which lie between .
Thus , before the time of Mr. Bowman , the following important facts had been made out , namely , that the fibre is composed of a bundle of beaded fibrillae cemented together , and that the fibrillae are cross striped , giving the whole fibre a like appearance of striation .
Erroneous views had often , it is true , been advanced , but these had never received general acknowledgment .
Mr. Skey ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1837 ) , for instance , considered the fibres to be tubes filled with a soluble gluten , the striae surrounding and binding them together .
Leeuwenhoek had a somewhat similar view of the construction of the cross striae , and Prochaska considered them as depressions caused by the clasping of neighbouring capillaries and thready tissues .
Mr. Bowman communicated to the Royal Society , in 1840 , a paper " On the Structure and Movements of Voluntary Muscle , " in which he confirmed many of the opinions of his predecessors , adding , at the same time , much of what was fresh to our store of knowledge .
He it was who first described the thin elastic membrane ( sarcolemma ) covering and ensheathing the fibres , showing how easily to demon- * Consult a drawing by Allen Thomson in illustration of Dr. Martin Barry 's paper on the structure of muscular fibrils , " Phil. Mag. , " series 4 , vol. 5 , Plate ~V , fig. 2 .
2 d 2 362 Mr. J. B. Haycraft .
Upon Cause of [ Feb. 3 strate its existence , and giving figures of it , which have been copied into most modern histological works .
The nuclei of the sarco lemma he also figured , but what most concerns us is his description of the cross striation .
Bowman , I believe , first pointed out that not only can a fibre be split up longitudinally into fibrillse along certain dark lines which may generally be seen , even in fresh preparations but that it splits up transversely along the dark stripes .
Each fibrilla may , therefore , be split up into tiny segments across the dark striae .
" On the whole , little doubt remains in my mind that the fibrillee consist of a succession of solid segments or beads connected by intervals generally narrower , and I believe the beads to be light , and the intervals the dark spaces when the fibrilla is in exact focus .
" His idea of a fibre naturally follows from that just given of a fibriila , and , quoting again from him , we find " a fibre consists of sareous elements ( so he termed the little segments or beads ) arranged and united together endways and sideways , so as to constitute in these directions respectively fibrillae and discs , either of which may in certain cases be detached as such , " and " the dark longitudinal striae are shadows between fibrillae , the dark transverse striae shadows between diees .
" It will be seen that in one particular Bowman disagreed with Schwann and the older writers , and at the same time with those of more recent date .
According to him , the bead was light and the constriction dark , when the muscle was in exact focus , a description at variance with everyone .
In the same paper he mentions this remarkable fact , that on altering the focus the stripes were reversed ; he must have examined it\#151 ; this bears in a moBt important way on our investigations , to be afterwards described\#151 ; in the reverse focus of what it is ordinarily figured in .
His view of the form , and the splitting of the fibre , was probably correct , for he described the cleavage as occurring in the narrow part , which appeared to him , focussing as he did , to be dark , and indeed it is often difficult to say which it is , whether dark or light , for , as I shall more particularly mention afterwards , the slightest alteration of the focus is sufficient to reverse the appearance of the fibre .
Bowman , moreover , accounted for these light and dark parts of the fibrillae , comparing a muscular filament to a glass rod with alternate swellings and depressions , which , when viewed with transmitted light , gives just the same appearance , and from a study of his paper , although it is here somewhat indefinite , I judge that h\#169 ; concluded the moniliform shape to be a cause of the striping.* * Bowman , nevertheless , seems to consider the dark stripe of a different structure from the light , not so much from the shading , but from the transverse cleavage .
He is not quite definite here , but this is the impression I have gained from a careful perusal of his paper .
1881 .
] the Striation of Voluntary Muscular Tissue .
363 Now , this last-named and important discovery of Bowman 's has , j I believe , completely been lost sight of , for no mention of it can be found in any modern monograph nor in any systematic text-book that I have examined .
The striking points in the paper and in the figures ihe gives , is the splitting up of the fibre into transverse discs and the demonstration of the sarcous elements as before quoted .
This , together with the sarcolemma , everyone connects with the name of Bowman .
Modern investigators have worked mostly at the cross striping of muscle , and have found it more complicated than Bowman described , owing , no doubt , to the use of better glasses ; while he explained the phenomenon as due simply to the shape of the fibres\#151 ; believing , however , probably that it was due also to structural differences\#151 ; modern investigators have introduced hypotheses to account for it , which imply differences of structure along the filament .
The reason of this is , if I may express an opinion , that his theory has been completely lost sight of , and that it was followed by the discovery of startling facts , which at first sight seemed to set it on one side .
In discussing the views of modern inquirers , I shall not , in all cases , consider them in the order of their priority , and allusion will not be made to much that has been written upon this subject , which , indeed , may safely be put on one side .
The light stripe\#151 ; dark stripe of Bowman\#151 ; has been shown by Dobie , Busk , and Huxley to be traversed by a very fine dark band , or rather line , " Querlinie , " dividing it into two equal parts .
We shall speak of this as Dobie 's line , or the dark stripe in the centre of the light .
( Fig 1 , D , Plate 5 .
) Then , again , the dark stripe is traversed in its centre by a lighter band called Hensen 's stripe.* ( Fig. 1 , H , Plate 5 .
) Other bands border this stripe , but as they are certainly not to be seen in all specimens however well prepared , and as we shall presently account for them , they need not trouble us here .
As early as the year 1839 , Boeck showed that muscle refracts light doubly , which statement was , however , modified in 1857 by Briicke .
The latter examined muscles prepared in alcohol by polarised light , ^pnd found that the dark stripe ( dark in ordinarily non-polarised light ) appeared luminous in the dark field of the microscope , and that the light stripes were dark when the Nicols were crossed .
The dark stripes , therefore , appeared to be doubly refracting ( aniso-tropous ) , and the light stripe singly refracting ( isotropous ) , the fibre consisting of singly and doubly refracting discs alternating one with 'toother .
These observations he verified by an examination of the fibre with thin plates of selenite and mica .
The views of Briicke have , in their turn , received considerable modifications which will be understood by reference to a diagram .
Fig. 2 , Plate 5 , expresses r * This stripe was also described by Dobie in the " Annals of Natural History " for 1849 , and it may be called " Dobie 's light stripe .
" Mr. J. B. Hayeraft .
Upon the Cav.se of [ Feb. 3 , very well the results of my own observations , which I find , are i\#187 ; accordance with those of other observers .
( See the " Handbuch dei Physiologie , " by Dr. H. L. Hermann , 1879 , p. 20 .
) The black par ) of the diagram corresponds with the portion of the muscle which singly refracts light ( isotropous ) , while the light shaded parts cor respond with the anisotropous substance .
This diagram does not , it will at once be seen , correspond with the views held by Briicke , for the great mass of the light stripe , with Dobie 's line in the centre of it is anisotropous , the dark band , as with Briicke , being anisotropous .
The most reeeht view is , then , that both the light and the dark stripes doubly refract light , but that there are bands which lie between them and which are singly refracting .
The appearance which partially warrants such a conclusion ; I have observed , but I shall endeavour to show hereafter how this ; may most satisfactorily be explained .
It will readily be seen how Briicke 's view , until quite recently accepted , would drive one to the conclusion that the light and dark stripes represent two different structures alternating kin the length of the fibre , and this is corroborated by statements as to the action of staining agents on the tissues .
Muscle is readily stained by picric acid , but is but faintly tinted by carmine , logwood , or eosine , although Ranvier , in his " Traite Technique d'Histologie , " states that he has obtained very beautifully stained preparations of insects ' muscle , when using Boehmer 's solution of logwood .
According to this observer , the dark stripes as well as Dobie 's lines are stained , while the rest of the fibre remains colourless .
Klein in his " Atlas of Histology " figures the sarcous matter of the dark band clearly tinted , while that of the light stripe is absolutely colourless .
The statement will not be far wrong , that everyone at the present time considers the dark and light stripes as representing two different structures , distinct one from another in their physical properties , for the dark stripe is spoken of as possessing a higher refracting power than the light , and chemically , for their compositions have already been hinted at by more than one observer .
The dark Stripe is looked upon by most as the true contracting part of the fibre , and they are termed the sarcous discs , or " Muskelprismen , " Hauptsubstanz , " or masses of " disdiaclasts , " and the light stripes as merely connecting matter , " zwischensubstanz , " or " Muskelkastchen flussigkeit .
" Dobie 's line\#151 ; more especially from the dipping down and attachment of the sarcolemma in insects ' muscle at this point*# has been looked upon ( Krause , " Allgemeine und Mikroscopische Anatomie , " section Muskel System , pp. 80\#151 ; 90 ) as a delicate transverse membrane .
This view has received the assent of such micro scopists as Klein and Ranvier , but not of " Wagener ( " Jahresberichto der Anatomie und Physiologie , " Hofmann and Schwalbe ) an 1881 .
] the Striation of Voluntary Muscular Tissue .
365 Rutherford ( " Text-book of Physiology , " p. 128 ) , who describe Dobie 's line as consisting of a row of dots .
Engelmann , indeed , describes a row of dots on either side of this line .
Krause would have ns believe that the fibre is divided by these membranes into a linear series of little boxes , each box or casket , " Muskelkastchen , " containing a dark stripe with ( as the membrane lies in the centre of the light stripe ) one half of that on either side .
Merkel ( " Lehrbuch der Gewebelehre , " Stuttgart , 1877 , p. 83 ) , to make the " Muskelkastchen " self-containing , affirms that the membrane of Krause is double .
As to the stripe of Hensen , this is by very many looked upon as still another structure lying in the centre of the dark stripe ; it is in many fibres very clearly to be made out , its border being well defined , and in stained preparations ( logwood ) it has decidedly a lighter tint than the rest of the stripe .
Still some ( Krause ) look upon it as an indication of the highly refracting power of the dark stripe , comparing the appearance with the light centre of an oil globule .
The other cross striae , of which there are many described by some observers , but none at all universally accepted , are , as a rule , considered as indicating further complications in the muscle fibre ; indeed , the " Muskelkastchen , " by most advanced microscopists , although not Towoo of an inch in length , consists of some ten or twelve different parts .
We may postpone , I think , indefinitely the consideration of these details .
While there is great unity as to the appearance of a fibre during a state of rest , the changes which the fibre undergoes when passing into the contracted condition are not at all understood .
Not only does one fail to find among histologists agreement as to the changes in appearance , but the interpretations of these are as numerous as the investigators themselves .
All are agreed , that during contraction , the fibre as a whole shortens and thickens , but the changes in form which the cross striae undergo are not understood so well .
Klein , in his " Atlas of Histology , " maintains the broadening of both stripes transversely , the dark stripe becoming thinner in the long axis , and the bright stripe more opaque .
Ranvier ( " Traite Technique d'Histologie , " p. 489 ) states that the only points one can conscientiously observe in the contraction of a living fibre are , that a knot or bulging forms , in which the dark bands approximate , being only separated by Dobie 's line .
This led him to believe that the dark bands are the true contracting part of the fibre .
Ranvier worked especially with osmic acid , fixing the fibres when at rest , and during contraction .
W. Krause ( " Allgemeine und Mikroscopische Anatomy , " p. 92 ) describes the contraction as follows :\#151 ; The thickness ( in the length of the fibre ) of the dark stripe or an isotropous substance remains the same as far as can be seen , while the thickness of the isotropous substance , " Zwischensubstanz " becomes less .
From this , he argues that 366 Mr. J. B. Haycraft .
Upon the Cause of [ Feb. 3 the substance of the clear stripe , -which he considers as fluid " Muskel-kastchenflussigkeit , " passes between the little elements of the dark stripe , causing their lateral separation , and therefore broadening and shortening the fibre .
Engelmann ( " Neue Untersuchungen fiber die Microskopischen Vorgange bei der Muskelcontraction , ' ' in " Pfluger 's Archiv , " Bandxviii ) is certain that the light stripe during complete contraction becomes darker than the dark stripe , and that there is a period as naturally follows from this observation , when the fibre is quite unstriated .
The stripes are in fact reversed , the bright one becoming the darker , and vice versa , .
Both stripes narrow , but especially the bright one .
Engelmann advances a theory to account for this , holding that the cause of contraction is the passage of fluid from the isotropous clear stripe into the anisotropous substance .
the former shrinks , and the latter swells .
Most startling is the view of Merkel ( " Hofmann und Schwalbe , " vol. i , p. 116 ) , who believes that the dark stripe shifts its position , arranging itself by Dobie 's line while the light stripe passes to the centre .
It is , as will readily be admitted , somewhat difficult to know what to believe , for there is such entire disagreement among physiologists as to simple facts , to say nothing of any conclusions which may be drawn from them .
Thinking that there must be some simple clue which would solve the whole problem , I commenced to work at the subject in the summer of 1878 .
At the onset the clue was discovered , and the substance of the present paper was written by the end of that year , before I had read for the first time the paper of Mr. Bowman s , in the Transactions " of this Society .
My astonishment was indeed great to find in it the first glimmerings of my own opinions , for although the subject had then been worked out but in the rough , and Mr. Bowman had a much simpler problem to deal with , yet undoubtedly he held the same views in the main .
My obvious course was therefore entirely to re-write my paper , making every acknowledgment to his already published work .
He considered , as far as I can make out , that the light stripe was to be compared with the cement seen in longitudinal fibrillation , between the fibril !
yet he looked upon the striae as being due to the shape of the fibre .
From the history of the subject , which has just been given , it will be seen that all observers are not agreed as to the actual appearances of a st'riped fibre , and especially the changes which occur during contraction , and I hold that they have fallen into great and unwarrantable error in the conclusions ( these , indeed , are all contradictory ) drawn from these appearances .
A fibre has been observed in the field of the microscope , which is marked transversely , as already described , and all modern investigators have concluded that the transverse bands mark the positions of disks ( seen on edge ) of tissue of different refractive indices and chemical composition , alternating in the long axis of 1881 .
] the Striation of Voluntary Muscular Tissue .
367 the fibre .
This is , however , purely an assumption which in no way follows .
We can also account for all these cross markings in a way which involves no theory , and requires for its appreciation but a knowledge jof most elementary geometrical optics .
If a small fragment of muscle be teased out in water , salt solution , or almost any other fluid , and examined in the ordinary way , with a power of 300 diameters or more , the important fact may be made out ( which is the basis of all my future observations ) , that the borders of the fibres are not smooth , but undulate , presenting wavy margins .
( Kg .
1- ) In the fresh unstained preparation there is a halo around the edge of the fibre which masks the crenulated border , yet by carefully adjusting the mirror so as to obtain oblique light , or by searching for a fibre partly in the shade of another , this may always be made out ; in the case of insects ' muscle , this is , however , always easy to demonstrate , for the fibres are much coarser , indeed , the appearance has been often figured in the works even of recent histologists .
If the preparation be stained by any of the ordinary dyes , perhaps most readily by picro- : carmine , the border is in all cases very distinct , and the regularly sinuous margin is unmistakeable .
Now , what is the significance of the wavy outline ?
It is , as will readily be understood , that the fibre is ampullated , the wavy outline being but the optical expression of such a figure .
A muscular fibre is then not a smooth cylinder , but is like the turned leg of a chair , or like the transversely ribbed neck of a common water-bottlq in shape .
If the fibre be broken up into fibrill\#174 ; , which is very easy , after maceration in alcohol , these are seen to have just the same characters , indeed , a small bundle of fibrils is most convenient for study .
It may be well to remark , that the ultimate fibrill\#174 ; often show but little cross marking , and appear almost smooth ; that is , however , only due to their small size ; a good lens will bring out both points .
The above-described appearances may be observed in all the varieties of muscle that I have as yet examined , e.g. , those obtained from man , the dog , cat , rabbit , guinea-pig , mouse , frog , mussel , crab , bee , wasp , Dytiscus , Hydrophilus , common house fly , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. The transverse stripings of the fibre are related to and correspond with the inequalities of the surface .
( Fig. 1 .
) The little elevations at the borders correspond , of course , to the little ridges which run round the fibre , while the dips at the borders are the optical expressions of little valleys running between them .
In the ordinary position , the dark stripe marks the position of the ridge , and the light stripe lies in the little valleys , as will be seen on reference to fig. 1 , Plate 5 .
Then , again , Dobie 's line ( Krause 's membrane ) , which is a faint dark band in the very centre of the bright stripe , runs along the Mr. J. B. Haycraft .
Upon the Cause of [ Feb. 3 bottom of the valleys ( D in the diagram ) , and Hensen 's stripe in the centre of the dark band , lies on the exact summit of the ridges ( H , fig. 1 .
) This position of the stripes in a normal muscular fibre , is the invariable rule , and the idea at once suggested itself , may not the shape of the fibre itself cause the cross stripings ?
Any student of natural philosophy would at once affirm that a structureless fibre of such a shape must be cross striped , and a glance at the ribbed neck of the water-bottle on the table will elicit the same answer from any one .
The question we must now determine is , are the appearances seen in the fibre just the same in all their details , as would be produced by a piece of glass , or any other homogeneous transparent substance of the same shape ?
Before , however , entering into theoretical grounds , it may be as well to give a full description of what is actually to be seen , for this has yet not been stated .
With a structure of complicated figure , such as the one we are considering , it is obvious that there is no one focus in which it may be described .
There is one pretty definite focus for a single speck or thin film , but even when examining a simple cylinder , it is evident that when the borders of it are clear and distinct , the upper surface is slightly out of focus .
We shall see , that in the case of the muscle , although there is one position of the lens when the parts are very distinctly seen , and in which they have mostly been described , yet that on slightly altering the focus , the appearance is changed .
These changes we must carefully study .
For this purpose we may select the large muscles of the thigh of a rabbit ; stretch them ever so little upon a piece of wood , and place them for some days in 50 per cent , alcohol .
A high power is required for their examination ; I have been in the habit of using a -J^-inch of Gundlach , a very perfect lens ; a -j^-inch will , however , do .
A small bundle of fibrils should be selected in preference to a whole fibre for examination .
On focussing it becomes at once apparent that on varying the adjustment ever so little , you may bring into focus the tops of the ridges or the bottoms of the valleys which lie between them .
Now this slight alteration is sufficient entirely to change the optical appearances .
First raise the lens until the fibre be out of focus and is only to be seen as a dim streak running across the field , then bring it down until its form and the cross markings are distinctly to be seen ( the border is now not quite distinct on a level with the horizontal axis of th\#174 ; fibre ) .
In this position alternating light and dark bands are made out , but no vestiges of Hensen 's stripes or Dobie 's lines .
( Fig. 3 , a. ) Thfl 1881 .
] the Striation of Voluntary Muscular Tissue .
dark band corresponds with , the valley and the light one to the ridge , or crest .
This was the focus in which Bowman described his preparations as far as I can gather from the paper .
If the lens be now lowered ever so little , the stripes are reversed , a most curious point , which was noticed by Bowman , but afterwards lost sight of .
The dark band now corresponds with the ridge , and the bright band with the valley .
( Fig. 3 , c. ) This is the focussing in which it is usually described , and in this position Dobie 's line and Hensen 's stripe are to be seen as a rule in uncontracted fibres .
Between these two positions of the lens there is generally a well-marked intermediate one , which is depicted in fig. 3 , b. The crests and valleys are both bright and equally so , although the slightest movement of the fine adjuster will make either one or the other the darker ; on the slopes , as it were , there are , however , narrow shaded bands , which are shown in fig. 3 , b. The fibre is now quite clear and distinct , and the longitudinal fibrillation is now best made out\#151 ; if it can be seen at all\#151 ; and yet there is no sign of either Hensen 's or Dobie 's stripes .
These being the observed appearances ( and they may be verified without very much trouble ) , I shall calculate theoretically the appearances which a homogeneous fibre of such a shape should present when examined by transmitted light , so as to see whether our observed effects tally with what may be theoretically calculated .
Parallel rays of light pass upwards through the fibre , and in their course are altered in direction ( see fig. 4 ) .
The substance of the fibre being of higher refrangibility than the fluid in which it is mounted , the thicker parts which correspond to the ridges will act like converging lenses , causing the rays of light to come to a focus ( A A ' A " ) , diverging again .
The thinner parts ( the valleys ) will , on the other hand , act as diverging lenses , causing the rays to spread out , as may be seen on reference to the diagram .
Now it is evident that when the objective is arranged to focus those rays which have passed through the fibre and converge over the ridges , at that same position the rays above the valleys will be diverging ( see fig. 4 ) .
This will produce a difference in the appearance , for the converging rays will give a bright band , while the position of those rays which diverge will appear darker .
Alter the focus by screwing the lens up or down , and , provided the fibre can still be seen , this state of matters will be reversed ; for after converging , the rays above the position of the ridges will now be diverging , while at the same time those over the valleys will be converging and will appear bright .
The condition seen in fig. 3 , b , which is intermediate between the low and high focussed picture of the fibre , would be obtained by shifting the lens half-way between these two positions .
Hensen 's stripe is no doubt due to rays passing through the centre of the ridges suffering little refraction in their course , and thus causing a brightness .
370 Mr. J. B. Haycraft .
Upon the Cause of [ Feb. 3 Dobie 's line might , of course , be the reverse of this , no rays at this point coming to the eye of the observer ; but we shall speak of this more hereafter , -when we shall show that there is some reason for suspecting at this point a distinct structure .
Although it is indispensable to account theoretically for these appear-ances , yet to most persons a simple demonstration will carry more conviction than any proof deduced from the laws of optics , however well they be understood .
Instead of showing " what should be " w* will study " what is .
" For this purpose we will imitate as nearly as possible the figure of a muscular fibre on a small scale , and it shall be made out of a substance of uniform consistence throughout .
What appearances will it present on microscopic examination p I have proceeded in the following manner:\#151 ; A glass rod is heated in a spirit-lamp and plunged into a bottle of Canada balsam ; it is then withdrawn , and a little drop of the balsam is allowed to fall on a glass slide , or a thread of it may be laid out on the surface of the glass .
Before the drop or thread has solidified it is indented with the milled head of a fine screw , and examined with a power of from twenty to fifty diameters , when cross shadings are to be observed .
These are seen , moreover , to correspond with the surface impressions , and not only so , but they are reversed on altering the focus .
ITensen s stripe is generally very well seen .
The most beautiful and convincing object to study in this connexion is a scale of the Lepisma .
These are sold as test objects with many microscopes .
They are oval in shape , transparent , and singly retractile throughout , and beautifully ribbed in their length , these ribbings or groovings being indeed so fine that a power of at least 500 diameters will be required to make out those points to be here described .
You would think on looking at one of these scales that a piece of muscle was flattened out before you on the field : no rough balsam model , but a perfect illustration taken from the back of a tiny insect .
The appearances it is needless to describe , for they are , almost to the minutest detail , those of a muscular fibre .
The bright and dark stripe interchanging with every alteration of focus , Hensen 's stripe , and Dobie 's line ( Krause 's membrane ) are all to be seen .
In the case of the Lepisma scale the line of Dobie is in the centre of a bright band , which is broader than the dark band with Hensen 's stripe .
This is , of course , the other way in the case of the muscular fibre .
We see , therefore , that a muscular fibre presents just those appearances which a transparent body of uniform texture and of similar shape would possess .
However conclusive these proofs may have been , it is well to collect all evidence possible to show that these markings are nothing more than optical effects , to which end a very searching experiment was suggested to me by Professor Tait .
It is evident that if these cross bands are seen when parallel , or nearly 1881 .
] the Striation of Voluntary Muscular Tissue .
371 parallel , rays of light are passing through the fibre , by using converging or diverging rays the appearance will he altered , and it will be possible by careful adjustment of a lens to cause a total reversal of the striping .
If a fibre be carefully focussed and a strong biconcave \#166 ; diverging lens be placed between the stage of the microscope and the mirror , and carefully moved about with the fingers , it will be possible entirely to alter the fibre , causing a total reversal of the cross bands .
On withdrawing the lens , of course the fibre resumes its normal appearance .
I may mention that several lenses were tried before one was found which would in at all a satisfactory manner show this phenomenon ; when successful the experiment is very striking .
In opposition to my view is the one generally accepted , namely , that the cross stripings are produced by differences along the fibre of chemical composition , and refrangibility .
How , suppose that there were along the fibre two alternating structures , A and B. Let A represent the bright stripe and B the dark stripe .
If A has a higher or lower refractive index than B , it is evident that although they were immersed in any number of fluids of refrangibility varying from the lowest to the highest , yet A would always be distinguishable from B , and the striping would always be apparent .
Then , again , by placing the fibres in fluids of indices near to that either of A or B , the more striking would be the contrast .
If , however , the fibre were homogeneous throughout , the striping being nearly due to the form , then if the fluid and the fibre have the same refractive index all striping will disappear .
On Professor Tait 's suggestion , I tried a series of fluids formed by mixing , in various proportions , alcohol , whose refractive index is low , with oil of cassia , which is high .
In this way I have prepared specimens showing almost no cross striae , the fibre appearing uniform until after most careful examination .
Dr. Klein has since shown me some muscular fibres of an insect .
They were quite smooth and cylindrical , and were unstriated .
In these specimens there were , on very close examination , cross lines separated by comparatively wide intervals .
It is possible that they represented Dobie 's lines.* But it may well be asked , What about the action of staining agents , such as logwood , which is stated to tint the dark stripe and Dobie 's line ?
Does this not show a difference of structure along the fibres ?
Once having the clue it will be understood that just as the unstained * More recently my friends Messrs. G-eddes and Beddard have demonstrated a very curious condition in the muscular fibres of the Echinus , which my views entirely explain .
They noticed that in the same fibre some parts were cross striped , while in parts no striation was to be seen .
Hearing of my explanation of the markings , they re-examined their specimens ( which I have also seen ) , and found that when the striae were visible there , and only there , the fibre was ampullated .
( See fig. 5 .
) Mr. J. B. Hay craft .
the Cause of [ Feb. 3 , fibre will modify and change the direction of rays passing through it so will also a stained fibre produce what are apparently modifications of the staining effect .
It is generally stated that the dark band and Dobie 's line are stained by logwood and carmine , while the bright bands remain unaffected ; also that Hensen 's stripe in the centre of the dark stripe is stained only to a slight degree : whence it follows that if staining action is to be the criterion , this stripe differs in structure from the dark stripe .
We , however , affirm that the whole fibre is stained , and equally stained throughout .
The bright band is undoubtedly stained , although it appears not of the deep blue of the dark stripe when coloured by logwood ; and this conclusion is drawn not only from an examination of my own specimens , but also from some of great beauty shown to me by Dr. Klein .
Why the bright band does not appear of so dark a blue is , that the apparent shading of the latter is added to the blue tint , producing a depth of colour .
The most conclusive proof of this is , that one can often reverse the colouring on readjusting the focus , and that Hensen 's stripe or the bright part of the dark stripe is only of a faint light-blue , like that of the bright stripe .
Picric acid stains muscle very readily , and colours it throughout .
The fibre to the naked eye is yellow and uniformly so , but when examined by the microscope , alternating yellow and shaded yellow bands are to be observed , which reverse their position on changing the focus .
With a high focus\#151 ; when the crests are bright in the unstained preparation\#151 ; they are of a bright yellow , while the valleys are of a deeper yellow tint .
To show the effects which a fibre of this shape can produce when transmitting monochromatic light , nothing can be more conclusive than the following experiment .
A slip of coloured blue glass is held obliquely between the reflector and the stage of the microscope , so that blue rays pass through the fibre .
It does not appear of a uniform tint , but beautiful blue stripes are seen corresponding with the crests and valleys , and varying with alterations of focus .
If a piece of red glass be substituted for the blue slip , red cross stripes are seen in corresponding places .
For this experiment the fresh fibres of insects ' muscle should be examined , for , with fine mammalian muscle , the light is not so good , owing to the higher power required .
This experiment has been introduced here with the description of stained muscle , not that it can be strictly compared with an ordinary staining process , but simply to show what an influence the fibre 's shape must have upon the tinting , supposing , as we do , that this is in reality uniform .
An investigation such as this is beset with many difficulties and fallacies , and I may mention one which befel me in this stage of my work .
I had stained a few muscular fibres of a rabbit with picro-carmine , 1881 .
] the Stnation of Voluntary Muscular Tissue .
373 and on examination , what was my surprise to find that in some of them the light stripes ( valleys ) were most brilliantly stained with carmine .
I was long puzzled at this , when it was at last discovered that the picro-carmine had dried somewhat on the preparation , and the carmine had mechanically precipitated along the valleys , filling them up .
At the end of one or two fibres this precipitation had \ partially peeled off , showing undoubtedly the true nature of the phenomenon .
I have in my possession very beautiful alcoholic preparations stained with logwood .
At first sight , from a study of many of the fibres , one would be led to believe that the bright stripe is wholly unstained , while the dark stripes are of a beautiful violet .
A careful examination , however , reveals the fact that such fibres are broken up transversely* looking like piles of coins , a very common occurrence , especially in preparations that have been long mounted .
The coins , lying close to one another , with narrow chinks between , of course revealed transverse unstained tracts , which could well be mistaken for the bright stripe .
More interest and discussion has hitherto accrued to the action of muscle on polarised light , than to the effects of staining reagents .
We have seen that much difference of opinion exists : Briicke has maintained that not only is the dark stripe ( ridge ) , as all are agreed , doubly refracting , but that the whole of the light stripe is isotropous .
I myself was led to modify this , discovering that on careful focussing with a fibre not at all sheared in its length , the central part of the light stripe was undoubtedly anisotropous .
This I have afterwards seen figured , as before mentioned , in Hermann 's " Physiology , " and have introduced the diagram into fig. 2 .
It is a point of some practical difficulty to mark exactly the positions of the cross bands while turning the analyser , and thus changing the character of the field .
This difficulty has been overcome completely by a suggestion of Professor Tait 's , who has helped me much in this part of the work .
Very fine emery powder should be sprinkled over the preparation before covering it ; for then , on examination , numberless little black specks will be seen in the field .
A cross band of a fibre is selected for examination which is exactly opposite one of these little specks , then when you rotate you can definitely affirm , having the little black speck for your guide , what change has occurred .
Rabbits ' muscles are very satisfactory objects for examination , as they do not cleave across at all readily .
The adductor muscles of the leg should be excised , slightly stretched on a piece of wood , and placed in 50 per cent , alcohol until they split readily into fibrils .
They may then be mounted in any ordinary fluid , a pinch of emery powder having been sprinkled over the preparation before covering .
It is necessary to use a power of 800 or 1,000 diameters in the in* Mr. J. B. Haycraft .
Upon the Cause of [ Feb. 3 vestigation of mammalian muscle , while in the case of the insect one of 300 diameters is quite enough .
In the living and dead muscular fibre the whole of its substance is doubly refracting .
The observations of some modern observers entirely agree with my own , in that , with crossed Nicola , the crests ( dark bands ) and the centres of the valleys ( bright stripes ) appear bright and therefore refract light doubly , and that there are two dark bands on the slopes between them .
( See fig. 2 .
) It does not follow , however , that these two dark bands represent tracts of isotropous substance .
This is the point at issue .
The dark lines between the valleys and ridges which appear when the Nicols are crossed have been interpreted as marking the positions of cross bands of singly refracting substance , but this is a fault of reasoning .
If the fibre were smooth and cylindrical it would then follow , but the fibre is not , as we have already insisted .
These bands lie just on the sloped pjirts of the fibre , those sections in fact which are oblique to the passing rays ; and the explanation is now quite easy , for the extraordinary ray passing through the fibre is naturally deflected at these parts , and does not reach the eye of the observer .
Hence the body appears not to transmit them at all at these parts .
It is not difficult to explain the discrepancies between Brucke 's description of the bright stripe and my own .
It is essential to be very scrupulous in the selection of a fibre for examination .
It must not be at all twisted , or sheared in the slightest degree , for then the cross stripes are not at right angles to the long axis , and as their width is several times their thickness ( in the length ) overlapping will to some extent occur .
This will certainly lead to very confusing results , and the bright centre of the bright stripe ( valley ) may well be overlooked .
Moreover , the fibre should be slightly stretched and as small as possible .
It has previously been mentioned that in many preparations the fibres split up transversely in a most regular manner , and unless the cover-glass be pressed upon , the little disks remain in position with narrow chinks between them .
These chinks will be filled with the isotropous fluid used for mounting , which will lead to very anomalous appearances , and which may perhaps help to account for some of Brucke 's statements .
These fallacies may be avoided by a study of the fresh fibres of insects ' muscle .
Dytiscus and Hydrophilus muscle has received a large share of the attention of histologists , but that from the wasp or blue-bottle fly is quite as good .
A leg should be pulled from the trunk of a blue-bottle fly and this again forcibly separated at the middle joint .
A piece of muscle will project from one of the segments , which may be cut off and examined in a drop of fluid expressed from the thorax of the fly .
The polariscopic effects may then be made clearly out in the still contracting fibres .
I have 1881 .
] theStriation of Voluntary Muscular Tissue , 375 itested all these points by a careful examination of insects ' fibres with thin plates of selenite and mica .
This method is not so satisfactory , nor do the differences of colour seen give such trustworthy evidence as may be obtained by the crossed Nicols alone .
The Fibre during Contraction.\#151 ; Living insects ' muscle may be examined and the changes observed when the waves of contraction ipass along the fibre , or perhaps better still , they may be fixed with osmic acid .
The muscles from the leg of an insect are rapidly separated out on a slide , and a drop of weak osmic acid added which kills the fibres instantaneously , fixing them in the position that they happen to be in .
On examination one generally finds fibres which in part of their course are contracted , and in other parts relaxed , when the differences in appearance may readily be studied .
It may here ibe observed that the fibres bulge at the contracted part , so that if the Surfaces be examined the focus of the microscope must be ac-.commodated .
The cross stripes are nearer one to another and correspond , as before , with the ridges , and valleys seen at the margin , which are imuch more prominent and bolder in outline .
In the Contracted Fibre the Striping is practically the same as in the Stretched Condition.\#151 ; The contracted fibre exhibits jnst the same reversing of stripes on alteration of focus , and Dobie 's line and Hensen 's stripe can both be seen in the same positions as in the un-icontracted muscle , provided the fibre is suitably placed for examination and not sheared in its length .
We must entirely deny the common statement , first introduced , we believe , by Merkel and Engelmann , that in the contracted state the bright band becomes the darker .
If good specimens of insects ' muscle be examined , which have been treated with osmic acid , and if the fibre be not sheared , the valley is always bright in the ordinary or deeper focus .
I have verified this point in very many cases .
Passing along a fibre from the relaxed end to a part where the contraction is fullest , the appearances vary in degree , but not in kind .
The main features are in both cases the same , but i the stripes are now narrower , and often it is not so easy to see Dobie 's and Hensen 's stripes .
This follows from the statement of Engelmann , viz. , that " the bright stripes become darker than the dim ; " for he himself notices that at one point , or phase , in the contraction , no striping is to be made out .
We agree with Ranvier that this is not true , indeed it would be impossible for a muscular fibre with its configuration not to be marked across its length .
This subject will call up to the mind of every working histologist , appearances which he must have met with in other fields of research .
Many tissues naturally , or after clumsy manipulation , present am-pullations which always co-exist with cross striae .
The fibres of the crystalline lens are wavy in outline , and when many of them are YOL .
xxxi .
2 E Mr. J. B. Hay craft .
Upon the Cause of [ Feb. 3 , bound together and seen on edge with the wavy outline towards the eye of the observer , cross bands are seen which in chance preparations ( especially those of the frog 's lens ) simulate muscle in a wonderful manner .
Ordinary non-striped muscle which may be so well seen in the frog 's bladder is often faintly ampullated especially , perhaps , in chloride of gold preparations .
Cross stripes may also here be seen .
The fibres of Tomes , when a section of softened tooth is teazed , are pulled out of the dentinal tubules , and , being of a soft and somewhat elastic nature , on breaking they become often very beautifully ampullated , and it would be impossible to distinguish them from muscular fibrillae .
In the class of practical histology , on more than one occasion , students have asked me the meaning of beautiful cross shadings seen on nerve fibres ; a slight ampullation which fully accounted for it , was always found .
Many more of such instances could be recalled in the experience of every one ; it is needless to enumerate further .
In the winter of 1879\#151 ; 80 , while examining fibres of the muscles of a newly-born child , a very curious discovery was made .
A nucleus belonging to the sarcolemma was seen beautifully striped .
It was not in close apposition to the fibre , a very narrow chink intervening .
On focussing with great care , it was seen that the cross bands upon it corresponded with those of the adjoining fibre , a dark one , however , for a light one , and vice versa , .
( Fig. 6 .
) Now , the curious point was that the nucleus had evidently been impressed by the fibre , moulded upon it , as it were , and on being pulled apart had presented a perfect cast of the surface .
One would hardly believe in sarcous elements here .
Last summer ( 1880 ) my friend Mr. Priestley communicated to me a similar and independent observation of his own , as a contribution towards the maintenance of my views upon the formation of the stripes .
The position that we have reached is this : a muscular fibre presents such cross markings , varying with shifting the lens up or down , as a filament of homogeneous structure and similar shape .
I have shown this experimentally , and have illustrated it by simple experiments , which it is in the power of anyone to test .
This being the case , I have searched to find if there be reason to assert any want of uniformity along the fibre , using various methods of staining .
This I have failed to do , and have shown that the views commonly held are to be explained simply by the shapes of the fibres .
As to the action of muscle on polarised light , I saw reason to dissent from the views of Briicke , and subsequently found my own in accordance with those of other recent observers .
I differ from them in the explanation I offer of the two dark bands seen with crossed Nicols , for here , again , the shape of the fibre explains their presence without looking for any special structure .
1881.1 ^ie Striation of Voluntary Muscular Tissue .
377 So far we are led to consider the fibre as made np of many ampul-ilated fibrils , packed side by side , forming an ampullated fibre , these fibrils being uniform throughout , and joined together by some cementing material , the nature of which we will not surmise .
The only point .which would suggest a definite structure along the fibril is the attachment of the sarcolemma in insects ' muscle to Dobie 's lines .
There is no doubt that this membrane dips down and seems prolonged into Dobie 's lines in a most beautiful and regular manner .
The significance of this is very obscure , and is quite beyond me .
There are many possibilities .
It may be , although there is no proof of it , that a membrane exists here continuous with the sarcolemma ; it may be that there is nothing but some cementing substance more soluble in alcohol than the sarcous matter : it may be that there is a little minor crest at this point to which the sarcolemma is attached .
This little } crest I have certainly seen in some fibres , and it has already been figured by more than one writer , yet in other fibres , the outlines of which are wonderfully distinct , no trace of it is to be made out .
The fibres \lt ; can hardly be said to break across in the line of Dobie , all that can definitely be affirmed is that they cleave in the thinnest part , or the light stripe .
The investigation of this point is one of great difficulty , | owing to the haze around the broken points , and I can never make up my mind to any definite statement .
This transverse cleavage is not of course a point of very much weight , as the fibre would naturally tend to split across in or near Dobie 's lines , as here it is thinnest .
The striping of muscle can be easily explained , as shown before , which leads me to my final statement .
A fibril is structureless throughout its entire length , except that , perhaps , there may be membranes , or lines of fission , or layers of cement at the positions of the lines of Dobie ; this we leave an open question .
In using the word " structureless , " I must not be misunderstood ; structureless membranes and tissues are fast losing their place in histology , and once simple protoplasm is now most complex .
What I infer is that the stripes do not } mark the positions of alternating layers of different structure , the j presence of which are ordinarily maintained .
The complicated " Muskelkastchen " of the Germans do not exist .
The muscular tissue of the heart presents many peculiarities which it is needless here to enumerate , for the cross striping alone concerns us .
All those cross bands which have been described in ordinary voluntary muscle may here also be seen , and they are placed in the same relations with the turned surface of the fibre .
The dark stripe corresponding to the crests , or ridges , the light bands to the depressions between them .
( Fig. 7 .
) Dobie 's lines may be made out with great ease , and as there is no sarcolemma here , they may be accounted for also purely from the shape of the fibres .
I have often thought that Dobie 's lines marked the positions of tiny ridges in the valleys , but this is a 2 \#163 ; 2 378 Mr. J. B. Haycraft .
Upon Cause of [ Feb. 3 , point more difficult to decide perhaps than in the case of the skeletal muscles .
Transverse cleavage takes place here also in the thinner part of the fibre , namely , in the bright stripe , but whether or not exactly in Dobie 's line I have not yet definitely made out .
A curious appearance often presented by insects ' muscle , and some-times also by that of the mammalia , has been described and figured by Mr Schafer .
A paper descriptive of these he communicated to the Royal Society of London ( 1873 ) , which came out later on in the Transactions " of this Society , and his observations are published also in the eighth edition of Quain 's " Anatomy .
" These have been almost entirely overlooked by French and German physiologists , yet in many English laboratories his observations have been verified , and his conclusions taught .
They are well illustrated in a representation of the muscular fibre of a Dytiscus , which may be seen in Quain 's " Anatomy .
" The dark stripes are traversed longitudinally by dark rods , which end at both extremities in little knobs .
These knobs lie in the borderland between the bright and dark stripes .
The only point which I would add to his figure is this , that the knobs are joined across the clear stripes or valleys by lines , just as they are so joined across the dark stripes , although the lens must be depressed ever so little to make this out .
These lines are , in fact , nothing more or less than the longitudinal striae described many years ago as lying between the fibrillae of which the fibre is composed , these little knobs lying in their course .
This can , perhaps , most conclusively be made out in the following way .
Allow a piece of insect 's muscle to remain in a drop of water for some hours ( which will vary with the temperature ) until it has partially putrefied .
Then cover and examine , when many of the fibres will have separated towards their ends into fibrillae .
One can then distinctly trace the chinks between the separated fibrillae as being continuous with the striae , on which the knobs are still seen , in the centre of the fibre .
I think that the following is a feasible explanation of these knob-like enlargements of the cementing substance seen as longitudinal striae .
These knobs occur , as will be beautifully seen on referring to the woodcut in Quain , on the slopes between the valleys and the ridges .
The cementing substance dips'down here with the fibre itself , and if there be the slightest lateral obliquity it will appear larger .
The cementing matter is seen on edge , and differing as it does from the muscle-substance in refrangibility , a distortion occurs , giving rise not to a dark line as on the surface , but to a dark knob .
This is , in fact , but an optical delusion , for the striae are quite uniform , and were the fibre cylindrical would appear so .
This may be proved by the fact that very often if the rays of light from the reflector are oblique , but one set of dots appears , which shift over to the other side on twisting the mirror .
By shifting the preparation TJroc .
R oy .
So c " .
vof 3l Noble Smith , fecit 1881- ] the Striation of Voluntary Muscular Tissue .
379 about , or by twisting the tube of the microscope obliquely , the dots disappear from one part of the fibre to appear in another , showing , ^at it is but an optical effect , and that no structure here exists .
Before concluding I must gratefully acknowledge much help and sympathy which I have received in this investigation .
To Professor Tait I have gone when in any difficulty , for an observer in a case such as this must have the aid of an experienced physicist , otherwise grievous error is but courted .
To him , as has been seen in the text , I owe many suggestions , and he has kindly entirely looked over my paper .
Dr. Klein has shown me great kindness in carefully examining my preparations from the histological point of view , and as has before been mentioned , in showing me preparations to corroborate my views .
My thanks are also due to my friend Mr. John Priestley , for many hints , especially concerning the literature of the subject .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 5 .
Figure 1 .
This represents a muscular fibre viewed with a very high power .
The borders are wavy and the cross stripes correspond with these inequalities .
( D ) marks the positions of Dobie 's dark stripes placed in the centres of the depression seen at the border .
( H ) represents Hensen 's stripes , or Dobie 's light stripes , placed on the summit of the ridges , in the centre of the dark band .
Figure 2 shows the appearance of the fibre with crossed Nicols .
The shaded parts are seen on the slopes between the ridges and depressions .
They are explained fully in the text .
Figure 3 .
A fibre is represented as seen with three positions of the lens .
In ( a ) the lens is elevated and the depressions appear dark .
In ( c ) the lens is fully depressed when the stripes are reversed , the depressions being now light with Dobie 's dark stripe in the centre of them , and the crests dark but with Dobie 's light stripe in the midst .
In ( i ) an intermediate stage is seen .
Figure 4 .
This shows the passage of rays of light through the fibre .
The convex parts converge the rays to focus A7 , A !
" \gt ; after which they diverge .
The lens shifted up or down ( vertically ) over the ridges or depressions , will focus on the retina alternately converging and diverging rays .
Figure 5 .
Muscular fibres of Echinus , described by Messrs. Greddes and Beddard .
Figure 6 represents a nucleus seeh by me , which impressed on the muscle , is moulded to the same shape and appears to be cross striped .
Figure 7 shows the striping of the muscular -tissue of the heart .

