Observations on the Camel 's Stomach respecting the Water it contains , and the Reservoirs , in which that Fluid is enclosed ; with an Account of some Peculiarities in the Urine .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 12 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 357 .
] The camel , on which Mr. Home 's observations were made , was a female , twenty-eight years old , and was brought from Arabia .
It drank regularly , every second day , six gallons of water , sometimes seven and a half ; but would not drink in the intervening period .
It daily consumed a peck of oats , one of chaff , and one third of a truss of hay .
It was killed on the first of April last , by thrusting a doubleedged poniard between the skull and the first vertebra of , the neck ; it had a few hours before drank three gallons of water .
A very particular account of the animal 's various stomachs , and of those of the bullock , together with the mode in which the food successively passes into them , is now given..From these ( which our limits necessarily oblige us to omit , ) it appears , that in the bullock there are three stomachs for the preparation of the food , and one for its digestion ; whereas , in the camel , there is one stomach that answers the purpose of the two first of the bullock , a second employed merely as a reservoir for water , a third so small and simple in the structure of its internal membrane , that it can answer no purpose except that of retarding the progress of the food , and making it pass into the fourth stomach by small portions ( for as it is not lined with a cuticle , it cannot be compared to any of the preparatory stomachs of the bullock ) , and a fourth , or true digesting stomach .
It appears , from our author 's examination , that the camel , when it drinks , conducts the water in a pure state into the second stomach ; that part of it is retained there , and the rest runs over into the first stomach , acquiring a yellow colour in its course .
This purity of the water in the second stomach is a well-known fact ; but by what means the water was kept separate from the food , had never been explained ; nor had any other part been discovered by which the common offices of a second stomach could be performed .
For Mr. Home 's explanation of the mode in which the former is effected , we must refer to the paper itself , and especially to the figures of the parts with which it is accompanied .
From the facts stated by our author , the following gradation of ruminating stomachs is established by him .
Those ruminants which have horns , as the bullock , sheep , &amp;c. , have two preparatory stomachs for the food previous to rumination , and one for the food to be received in after rumination .
The ruminants that have no horns , as the camel , dromedary , llama , &amp;c. , have one preparatory stomach for : the food before rumination , but none in which it can be properly said to be afterwards retained , before it passes into the digesting stomach .
Those animals that eat the same kind of food as the ruminants , but do not ruminate , as the horse and ass , have only one stomach ; but a part of it is lined with a cuticle ; in this part the food is first deposited , and by remaining there some time , is more easily digested when it passes to the second , or digesting portion .
The difference , with respect to the teeth , between those animals which ruminate , and those which ( although they eat nearly the same kind of food , ) do not ruminate , is , according to our author , as follows .
Ruminants that are furnished with horns have molares , or grindingteeth , in both jaws , and incisors only in the lower jaw .
Ruminants that are without horns have , besides the above , what may be called tusks , or fighting teeth ; but these are of no use in eating .
The Camelopardalis forms an intermediate link between the two , as it has short horns and no tusks .
Annexed to Mr. Home 's paper , is an account of some experiments made on the urine of the Camel , by Mr. Brand .
The result of his experiments gives the component parts as follows ; but it must be observed , that the quantity he had to operate upon was so small , that his analysis must be considered merely as an approximation to the truth .
Water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
75 Phosphate of lime , muriate of ammonia , sulphate of 6 potash , urate of potash ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
J Muriate of potash ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
8 Urea ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
6 95

