]\gt ; eneous , mitted ivriters tbsorption iproof tdioactive speed , and , further , that the velocity of the -particles does not change aversi cttacked t question from another directiou .
radium emanation , he has sorted out the rays from the active deposit by : means of a rrnetic field , and obtained rays which , if not only cover a small in velocities .
Testing these rays means of all electroscope , he found that when the ionisation was plotted against the thickness of absorbing matter , the curve obtained was not exponential , but very nearly a straight line .
This indicated that the absorption of nearly homogeneous rays was not a constant , but increased with the thickness of matter traversed .
Such a result can only be explained by a loss of velocity in -rays they pass matter .
It shows also that an exponential of absorption does not nify heneous -rays , but rather rays with a particular distribution of velocities .
This point of view has been a matter of discussion between Hahn and Meitner and Wilson , the former in their paper supported the that an exponential law of absorption is a proof that the -particles are eneous , and do not decrease appreclably in velocity in passing matter .
It has been the object of the experiments described in this paper to obtain independent evidence on this important question by deflecting the -rays from some radioactive substance in a magnetic field .
The raphic method was used , the detection of one or more sets of eneous -rays attempted .
adium emanation was the substance first used .
The nation produces and , both -ray products , and when radioactive equilibrium is established we have a source of -radiation which is approximately constant during the course of a few hours .
The emanation was contained in a narrow thin-walled tube , to the tubes used by Rutherford and when they proved that the -particles were positively charged atoms of helium .
The thickness of the tubes was such that it was equivalent to about cm .
of air , so that the -particles frorll and the emanation could escape .
The tubes were made thin , so that there should be as little absorption as possible of the -rays the ' film used , but enough thin black paper was placed over the tube to protect the film the -particles and the phosphorescen ce caused by them .
Thus the -rays had very little matter to pass } * Wilson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1909 , , vol. 82 , p. 612 .
Hahn and Meitner , ' Phys. Zeit 1909 , p. 948 .
, ' Phys. ' 1910 , p. 101 .
1910 .
] -Rays from a ubstancea.nation , the 139 obtain hs in areasonable time , but as , on examination , the rays used were absorbed exponentially until the intensity was about 10 per cent. 1 of the intensity , this did not affect the result .
The absorption was tested in two ways .
In the first the active material was placed about 10 cm .
below a small electroscope and an absorption curve : taken .
In the other a small proportion of the rays were allowed to pass through a small hole in a lead screen and the absorption curve taken , using an ordinary -ray electroscope .
The absorption in both cases was practically exponential over the greater portion of the , being somewhat reater after the intensity had been diminished to 10 per cent. Curve , in which the logarithm of the activity is plotted against the number of sheets , is practically a straight line .
The average thickness of a sheet was mm. , the value of the absorption coefficient obtained being cm . .
The tube A of was replaced by the aluminium plate , and the slit was formed by two graphite plates mm. thick , and was about mm. wide .
Several were taken , and figs. 5 , 6 , and 7 show some of them .
In the case of there was atmospheric pressure in the box and no magnetic field .
The photograph shows the of the -rays in air , why it was necessary to work with the air at very low pressure .
In , the box was evacuated and there was no field , the exposure lasting 20 hours .
In fig. 7 , the box was also evacuated , but there was a netic field of Gauss .
There were several raphs taken in this way , all with similar results .
In one of them the -rays had first to pass through mm. of aluminium .
The osnre for fig. 7 was 36 hours .
The narrow band in this figure is mainly due to phosphorescence at the active material , and serves as a central band to determine ths ranges of velocity of the -rays .
The other band , or magnetic spectrum , on comparison with the band in fig. 6 , shows at once that the -rays from the active matel'ial are by no means homogeneous , but that their velocities cover a wide .
It can be seen in this band that the intensity fades away each side of the maximum , the limits difficult to fix with certainty .
Knowing AS cm .
, cm .
, we can calculate the radius of curvature of the path of the -rays in a magnetic H. If be the deflection measured on the film , approx. Then , if be the atio of charge to mass of -rays of speed The of Velocity in the -Rays , etc. the same ratio for very slow speeds , the velocity of , we .
can calculate the velocities of the rays from the equations ( Lorentz 's equation ) , taken E.M.U. this way it was found that for the rays had all values between Gauss cm .
and 1000 Gauss cm .
, or between cm .
per second and cm .
per second .
It is scarcely possible to fix with certainty the velocity for which there is the maximum number of -particles .
An approximate determnination has been made by measuring the distance between centre of narrow band and position of maximum intensity on the film magnetic spectrum and then calculating Hli .
The value found for was 2300 Gauss cm .
, a velocity of cm .
second .
This result agrees fairly well with that of Schmidt , found Gauss cm .
the electrical method , From the above , we see that -rays , which are very nearly absorb , according to an exponential ] , are by no means homogeneous .
if we have a mixture of -rays of different speeds and take an absorption curye , the slower ray will be cut down more in proportion than the faster rays , so the absorption coefficient should decrease as the rays , traverse matter , provided there is no in velocity .
If the absorption coefficient is to remain the same or increase , there must be a loss in velocity of -rays in versing matter .
The above experiments do not prove directly that the -rays from are not initially expelled at an identical speed , for it is possible that the -rays 3 ' coming from the lower layers of the active material may be so in velocity that an exponential law of a'osorption results from the mixture .
However , in this ca , we could not expect that the rays from a thin film of would be absorbed exponentially , and also we should expect a different coefficient of absorption for the thin layer .
An absorption curve was taken of the -rays from a thin film of the material used in taking the In this film the absorption of the rays in the active material is very small , and care was taken that very little secondary -radiation entered the electroscope , yet the rays from the are absorbed exponentially .
The result is shown in curve , fig. 4 , the absorption coefficient being 42 c .
It is therefore practical]y certain that the -rays from are initially expelled , H. W. Schmidt , ' Phys. Zeit 1909 , .
So , 41 , : ; .
1 The Decrease of Velocity of the rticles , etc. not at an identical speed , but with widely different velocities .
The experiments with radium emanation gave similar evidence with respect to the -rays from and Summing up the experiments which , as we have seen , confirm Wilson 's results , we may say that\mdash ; 1 .
-rays , which are absorbed according to an exponential law , are not homogeneous .
2 .
-rays must fall in velocity in traversing matter , for , if not , the absorption coefficient of any mixture of rays would decrease as the rays passed through matter .
In conclusion , I wish to express my thanks to utherford for these experiments and for his advice and lelp d their ress , and also to ) .
Boltwood , who separated and purified the sample of radium employed in these experiments .
Decrease of Velocity the rticles oPassing Matter .
By IVILLIAM WILSO , Hon. ] Fellow of the UniversiC of Manchester .
( Communicated ) Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received May 6 , \mdash ; Read June 9 , 1910 .
) In a previous it was shown that the absorption of homogeneous -rays by matter when determined by the ionisation method does not take place according to an exponential law , as had previously been assutned , but according to a law which is practically linear .
This means that the absolption coefficient of the rays becomes rreater the further the rays penetrate the absorbing medium , and since the absorption coefficient increases decreasing velocity of the -rays it gests that the rays are slowed down on through matter .
Some experiments were which fully confirm this view .
Wilson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 82 , 1909 .
If 6 rays of intensity I fall on a layer of matter of the intensity is decreased by , and is called the absorption coefficient of the rays .
For an exponential law of absorption is constant .
, p.

