]\gt ; 2.38 .
H. T. arncs .
th Cap ( for Heat of " " On of Water betwccn the Freezing and , together of the of Heat in Terlns of the International the Continnous-flow of in the Physical ill University , Montreal By , D. .
Jonle Student .
{ , June Jnno 21 , 1900 .
( A1 ) At the onto of the British tion in 1897 , a new lcthod of proposed ) Professor the the of the spccific of liqnid in tcrms of the lltits .
the Dover mceting in solllc of the CYcncl .
resnlts ) tained with the over the ctwecu 0tItd 1 discussion of the ring of the to thewolk of other ) the present of the complctc work , in the tho thel n } city n different ) the Tf of liqnid ) ) miule to off cononly tity of , in ullitr , , then after itions hccomc stcady of of per the of the liqnid , of the flowing the ) of the ] , ont of the ) loss ) of the of the ) , I ) cscnts ] ] ] fl .
I this i$ of the ) cscnt ) iS Water the by where is a small quantity to ) delermined , and varies with the thermal capacity of the water , which is not ctly equal to at points of the range .
ting in the general equlttion , , and , the tion is given in the 4 .
, which is termed the general difference cquation of method .
The two terms 8 and be determined by sing t of two tions of the form For the same value of , if the electrical for the flows is regulated so that then which corresponds to he mean temperature where is not too great .
In the present method the flow tubc is of lass , bont 2 mm. diameter , connected to larger outflow tube , in which the tture of the is rc ) pair of thermometers , being heated by the electric cul'lcnt .
A ounds the fine flow ) a part of the inflow ttll ) , to redncc the heat loss as much as .
A coppcr encloses the inflow tubes and cket , to the ] of the jacket equ to the mflowing water .
The loss from the .
is then the loss to radiation from the flow ) ough the cuum jcket , $ltd tion from the ends of the flow tnbes .
In testing the of the method , the dependence of the loss on the rise of was found , the depelldencc of the heat loss on the flow .
The electric heating cnrrcnt sllpplied to the wirc ctor in the -fiow tube from four tmpcre hour tors .
It was passed resistance in selics with the Dr. H. T. Barnes .
On the of conductor and in ddition a specially constructed rheostat , by which small adjustments to the circuit could be made for regulating the heat supply .
The measurement of the different constants entering into the general difference equation of the method is treated of under two heads , ] ectrical and Thermal .
In the first , the Clark cell and resistform the principal measurements , and in the second the measurement of tcmperature , time , and weight have to considered .
An exceedingly accurate pobentiometer was employed to determine the difference of potential across the resistance and calorimeter in terms of the E.M.F. of the Clark cell .
E.rp Proof of of Method .
In this section the author shows that the dependence of the heat loss per rise in the calorimeter varies in a linear relation to the flow in proportion to Q8 beyond certain limits of flow , and this is essential for the fnlfilment of the theory of the method .
For very small flows the tion effect the outflow end , due to the rise of temperature in the tppears and causes the line representing the relation of heat loss to flow to approach an infinitely value of the heat loss for a zero flow .
The limits of flow chosen in the present rements are safely includPd within the linear relation .
The tion of the heat loss to the rise of temperature shows that for rises of from to and beyond , the heat loss is ectly proto the rise .
The thermal capacity of the calorimeter is cnlated , and it is shown that for the small changes in the ture of the calorimeter during an experinent this is ) of Streloiion .
of the earlier results are given in this section , the effect of stream-line motion on the distribution of heat thronghout the water column for calorimeter with a 3-mm.-bore flow ) for different flows .
The temperatnre of the wire used for these experiments is also to vary considerably when moved from the centre to the sidcs of the tube .
It was necesto thoroughly stir the water in ] its through the flow ) order to ensure a perfectly uniform temperature throughout the The prelimin measurements of the value of , which were made in the summcr of 1898 , ffected ) the of motion in the tube , as time device was introdnced to Watcr ?
Points , obviate it .
Owing to the calorimeter which then , however , having only a 2 mm.-bore flow tube , the eflect was not so large as for the tube with a 3 .
bore .
The value which corresponds to a tem- perature of the ater of C. is joules , which tgreeS to 1 part in 2000 with the later and more accurate measurements which were obtained for all the calorimeters with the various devices for eliminating the stream-lines .
iments l In this section the complete list of fifty-five tables is included , giving upwards of forty-five complete experiments at different parts of the range .
The experiments have extended over just a year , and divide themselves naturally into eight separate series .
The results with different calorimeters and with different rises of temperature arc included .
Summarising the results and plotting the values of S for all the experiments , the following values of 8 and the corrssponding values of are obtained from the smoothed curve:\mdash ; Summary of the Specific Hcat of lVater from Smoothed Curve .
Temperature .
J. 4.1801 4.1773 4.1954 value ; The values of the specific heat ) in terms of thermal unit to joules , which oc.curs at 9 C. It is more VOL. LXVII .
Dr. H. T. Barnes .
On Capacity for Heat of suitable to select a thermal unit at a more convenient part of the scale .
The mean vcdue of the mechanical equivalent of heat from these measurements over the whole range is joules , which very nearly equal to the value at C. , which is joules .
It seems to select a unit at a temperature which , if at the time a convenient part of the scale , may be equal to the mean over the whole scale .
The author has in consequence adopted a unit at C. , and has expressed the specific heat of water in the table in terms of this unit : Variation of the Specific Heat of lVater in Terms of a Thermal Unit at C. emperature .
Observed Yalltes .
Cnlculated In expressing the results in a formula it is impossible to fit any one simple expression over the whole scale .
It is seen that the curve rapidly from , passes a minimum point , and in creases agnin less rapidly townrds mulae c be fitted very tcly over the scalc .
Between C. the following expression in terms of a is to The same holds between and by simply considerWater betnf(the Points , ing all of the cubical term positive .
Above the simple formula holds with great accuracy .
Both these formlae are givell for comparisoll i the second table .
They fit very closely except ) elow 5 , where the specific heat curve increases more pidly .
These lower are within 1 in 1000 , however .
A summary of the obtained for the radiation loss shows that the solute value for any one calorimeter not be relied on to an order of lracy greater than 1 part in 1000 over extended periods .
This is particnlarly when the temperatnre of the calorimeter is widely changed .
It was most to eliminate the heat loss from at least two different flows in order to be completely independent of its absolutc value .
The complcte independence of the results from the of the heat loss , provided this ined constant throughout the time of an expcriment , was } by employing alorimeters with different degrees of widely differing values of the heat loss .
The coefficicnt of the tion loss was to be almost ctly 1 of these experiments .
to of It is at once apparent that the of the mean mechanical equivalent of heat obtained from these rements , which is joules , is somewhat larger than the exceedingly rate c trustworthy tsurements of Reynolds .
Their value , which is joules , is lowor by per cent. , or little over 1 in 1000 .
It is evident that this error may ) to the neglecting of some correction factor in the present series of expcriments the extremities of the nlgo , which would cause the riation cclrve to increase more apidly than it does ; ) from the order of racy with which the theory of the prcsent expcriments at the extremities of the , it is more likely the tion curve is correct , that thedifl.erence in the two resnlts is to ) attributed to ) error in one of the constants .
The thermal constallts ; mployed in the two diffcrent iments arc referred to the values , but the introduction of the valuc of the its into the present series of experiments , which do not enter into the tion of Reynolds 's Moorby 's , renders it highly that the error is to be looked for here .
In view of the immense amount of bour expended the value of the On Heat of national ohm , it is prol ) ) that the error is not there .
The recent work on the absolute valuc of the Clark cell , which is demanding so much attention just now , and which has so far given so many inconsistcnt resuIts , makes it very probable that the value of the Clark cell adopted in the present work is in error .
If this is so , then , as is pointed out , the of the Clark ce ] ] must ] taken as int .
volts C. , in order to b1ing the present series of experiments , international volt ohm , into absolute accord with the result by the direct mcchanical method of Reynolds and Moorby .
Having considered the above relationship , the mean alue of the mechanical equivalent given by Rowland 's experiments ) etween 6 and C. is compared with the same mean value from the present series of experiments ver the same range .
By expressing this latter value terms of the value of the Clark cell volts , or as may ) said in terms of Reynolds 's Moorby 's determination , instead of the original voIts used in calculation , it comes equal to joules .
The valuc obtained from Rowland 's corrected curve is joules , which frees with the present series of experiments to 1 part in 2000 .
This is a discrepancy so small as to be , if not within the limits of error of these several determinations , at least negligibly small in comparison to the great range covered by the present serics of experiments .
By the most part of the series of experime1lts is the compariso1l of the value of the mechanical equlvalent of heat ) tained from these experiments with the values obtaned by the electrical method nsed by Griffiths , and Sehuster and Gannon , even wheu onr several results are expressed in terms of the same values of the mits used .
There is every reason to believe that the values of the resist stand used the present work were the same those used by both these tors .
It is also highly prol ) able the of the cells in the present series of experlments were in correct a reement with the best results have been ined i up this tiou .
It is the diftcreucG in the values ) Grifliths , ster noIl , from the value ) ined i the series of } ucnts must ) nted not to these , to the diIf'erencc in the methods of calorimetry .

