I. " On Colour-Blindness .
" By WILLIAM POLE , Esq. , F.R.A.S. , F.G.S. , Memb. Inst. C. E. Communicated by CHARLES MANBY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received June 7 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) The author 's object in this paper is to state his own case of colourblindness , which he believes to be one of the most decided on record ; to compare it with others of the same kind ; and to show that the general phenomena attending this defect of vision are more uniform and consistent , as well as more easy of explanation , than is generally supposed .
For general information on the subject , reference is made to a work lately published by Dr. Wilson of Edinburgh , entitled " Researches on Colour-Blindness , " in which a great number of cases are fully described , and the optical and physiological theories of the defect carefully discussed .
After stating reasons which justify a colour-blind person uiderI taking the investigation and description of his own case , the author gives a preliminary statement of his views in regard to the general theory and nomenclature of colours , adopting the ordinary hypothesis that red , blue , and yellow are the three primaries ; a theory which , though it has been lately called in question , receives , it is considered , new support from the phenomena of the defect of vision under consideration .
Dr. Wilson describes colour-blindness as of three kinds , namely1 .
Inability to discern any colour except black and white .
This is very rare .
2 .
Inability to discriminate between the nicer distinctions of colour .
This is so common as to be apparently rather the rule than the exception .
3 .
The third variety is the only one here treated of .
Its outward manifestation is the inability to distinguish between many of the colours most marked to normal eyes , and its most complete form is what is called dichromnic vision ; being total blindness to one of the three primary colours .
The description of a case of colour-blindness may either be confined to a statement of what may be called the symptows of the malady , i. e. the effects it produces on the individual 's judgment of colours ; or it may go further , and endeavour to describe the positive nature of the sensations experienced , the causes , so to speak , of the outward symptoms observed .
The first is the plan usually adopted , but the author combines both in the account of his own case .
As regards the outward symptoms , he finds them very similar to those of other cases ; and for the purpose of showing this similarity , he collects in an appendix the principal features of nearly forty published cases , and points out that as a general rule he can corroborate the whole from his own impressions , the points where they appear to differ being very few and exceptional .
An abstract is then given of the symptoms exhibited , as collected from these cases .
They are as follows : Blue and yellow are perfectly distinguished , and are the only colours seen in the spectrum .
Almost all colour-blind persons think they see red , but it is frequently confounded with green ( the most common mistake ) , black , orange , yellow , brown , blue and violet .
Crimson and pink appear to have no relation to scarlet .
Green is a most perplexing colour ; it is not only confounded with red , but with black , white , or grey , orange , yellow , blue , violet and brown .
Violet is confounded with blue or grey ; and orange with yellow .
More difficulty is manifested with light or dark tones of compound colours than with full ones .
In explaining more accurately the real nature of the author 's vision of colours , he employs as standard examples of reference the " Cercles Chromatiques , " and " Gammes Chromatiques " of M. Chevreul ( copies of which accompany the paper ) , the former giving various gradations of hue , the latter , gradations of tone .
He states that his vision is perfectly dichromic , and shows the applicability to it of the definition of this kind of vision given by Sir John Ierschel , which he believes has never hitherto been followed out so completely as is necessary to explain the phenomena observed .
Blue and yellow he sees perfectly well , and has no reason to doubt that his sensations of these two colours are the same as those of the normal-eyed .
The third primary , red , is the one in regard to which his vision is defective , but the study of the sensations produced by this colour has been involved in some difficulty .
Carmine , the artificial representative of what is usually considered pure red , presents to the author 's eye a very positive sensation , which he long supposed to be a distinct colour ; but on examining it more closely , he found it to be merely a dark shade of yellow , as he could match carmine red perfectly with a mixture of yellow and black .
There is , however , a variety of red , namely crimson , which is perfectly invisible , as a colour , to his eyes , giving only a sensation of darkness ; and the whole of the hues of red and orange between this and yellow present only different shades of the latter colour ; the red element appearing to act , not as a colouring agent , but simply as a darkening power .
The author has endeavoured to find the place of this , to him , neutral or invisible hue of red on the spectrum , and believes that if it exists there at all , it must be situated at one or both of the extreme ends , a position which would appear to distinguish it as possessing some peculiar property , and he offers a conjecture that this , and not carmine red , may perhaps be the true primary colour .
The hues of violet , lying between blue and crimson , appear , on a similar principle , only shades of blue , the red darkening the blue in the same manner as the yellow .
In passing on to the green division of the colour circle , lying between the blue and yellow , the author calls attention to the apparent anomaly , that though colour-blind persons see blue and yellow perfectly well , their combination , green , should be so great a stumbling-block .
This fact appears to have perplexed everybody who has treated on the subject ; the author imagined he was the first to discover the explanation , but he found he had been anticipated by Sir John Herschel , who says in his letter to Dalton , " the equilibrium of blue and yellow produces your white , " i.e. the white of the colour-blind is not white at all , but green .
And this is consistent with theory ; for if normal white is a combination of three elements , the invisibility of one of these elements to the colour-blind should naturally have the effect of changing the appearance of their compound .
Since , therefore , green is only a colour to the normal-eyed as it is contrasted with white light , it becomes no colour at all to the colour-blind .
The author proves this by showing that a certain hue of green exactly matches , to his eyes , a neutral grey ; that all greens on the yellow side of this appear only shades of yellow , all on the blue side , only shades of blue .
Thus the dichromic explanation of the author 's vision is complete .
He has only two sensations of colour , properly so called , namely blue and yellow , all other hues in nature being reduced to shades of these .
The colour of light , or the hue resulting from their combination , may be called green , white , or grey , at pleasure .
It is shown that this explanation of colour-blind vision will fully account for the whole of the various symptoms above enumerated .
Red and green , for example , are both seen only as shades of yellow , and if the yellow is of the same intensity in each , they will appear alike , and of course be confounded with each other .
The aulthor then proceeds to consider how far his own case may be regarded as a type of the defect in general .
The varied and in .
congruous nature of the symptoms has given rise to a belief that there are many varieties of colour-blindness , or at least many different degrees of severity ; but after carefully examining the published accQunts , he has arrived at the conviction that the true diq dr6omic affection is muc1h more commo than is generally stip posed .
HeIt points out reasons why the descriptions given by the colour-blind of their sensations may often be imperfectly expressed and easily misunderstood , alludes to the difficulty of explaining the symptoms by any other hypothesis , or even of classifying them in any consistent way ; and considers the fact exemplified in his own case , that dichromic vision will explain all the phenomena , as strongly corroborative of the uniformity insisted on .
From the results of his investigations , the author draws a few inferences in regard to the theory of the primary colours , although admitting his incompetence to deal fully with this part of the subject .
He considers that , from the extreme simplicity of the phenomena of colours as seen by the colour-blind , their experience may serve as a stepping-stone to the more complex problems of normal vision .
Their light is divisible into two colours , blue and yellow ; and since these must be undoubtedly primaries to the colour-blind , it is reasonable to infer they should also be primaries in the normal system .
The dichromic eye further becomes of use as an analyser of colours , and can detect the presence of blue or yellow in compounds whose elements may be inseparable to normal eyes .
Thus it finds that in orange there is much yellow , and in violet much blue , and therefore these cannot be simple colours .
Red , producing no impression on the colour-blind eye , may be assumed to be a simple colour , and may therefore be put down as the third primary , so that the phenomena of colour-blindness would appear to confirm the ordinary theory , or at least are more consistent with it than with any other .
The fact of carmine-red presenting to the colour-blind a decided sensation of yellow , affords a confirmation of Sir David Brewster 's theory of the triple spectrum , according to which this result ought to be expected .
Th'e principal symptom of colour-blindness being the mistaking of red for green , and vice versed , it has been thought that the use of these colours for railway and ship signals becomes dangerous where colour-blind persons may have to observe them .
The author points out that this danger may be obviated by very simple means .
Red and green are not confounded with each other generally , but only such hues of them as lie in both cases on the yellow side of the neutral ; and therefore if the green be made a blue green at the same time that the red is a yellow red , they become quite as distinct to the colour-blind as to the normal-eyed .
The colouring of geological maps is very perplexing to the colourblind , and it is recommended that engraved marks , to distinguish the different strata , should always be added to the colours .
In conclusion , the author gives hints which he considers useful for the examination of colour-blind persons , and states the importance of collecting further evidence on the subject , of an accurate and definite nature .

