A paper was read , entitled , " On the Curvature of Surfaces .
" By John R. Young , Esq. Communicated by John W. Lubbock , Esq. , M.A. , V.P. and Treas .
R.S. The principal object of this paper is , to remove the obscurity in which that part of the theory of the curvature of surfaces which re ?
lates to umbilical points has been left by Monge and Dupin , to whom , however , subsequently to the labours of Euler , we are chiefly indebted for a comprehensive and systematic theory of the curvature of surfaces .
In it the author shows , that the lines of cur ?
vature at an umbilic are not , as at other points on a surface , two in number , or , as had been stated by Dupin , limited ; but that they pro ?
ceed in every possible direction from the umbilic .
The obscurity complained of is attributed to the inaccurate conceptions entertained by Monge and Dupin , of the import of the sym* bol in the analytical discussion of this question , the equation which determines the directions of the lines of curvature taking the form at an umbilic .
After stating that Dupin has been guided by the determination of the differential calculus , the author remarks , that in no case is the differential calculus competent to decide whether - , the form which a general analytical result takes in certain particular hy ?
potheses , as to the arbitrary quantities entering that result , has or has not innumerable values .
He then states the principle , that those values of the arbitrary quantities ( and none else ) which render the equations of condition indeterminate must also render the final result , to which they lead , equally indeterminate ; and that , therefore , when such result assumes the form - , its true character is to be tested by the equations that have led to it , after these have been modified by the hypothesis from which that form has arisen .
In a " Memoir sir la Courbure des Surfaces , " ( Journal del'Ecole Polytechnique , Tom. XIII .
) , Poisson has arrived at the conclusion , that the number of lines of curvature passing through an umbilical point is infinite , and that those selected by Dupin differ from the others only by satisfying an additional differential equation ; those others equally satisfying the conditions of a line of curvature .
These are precisely the conclusions arrived at by the author .
As , however , he considers that the mode of investigation pursued by Poisson is peculiar and ill adapted to the objects apparently in view , namely , to reconcile the results of Monge and Dupin and to remove their obscurities , he was induced to investigate some of the more important properties of curve surfaces , by a method somewhat different from that usually employed .
Adopting Z=F ( X , Y ) as the general equation of any surface ; by attributing to X , Y , Z , increments x , y , z , and assuming that the axis Z coincides with the normal to the surface , or that the plane xy is parallel to the tangent plane , an equation equivalent to , and nearly identical with , Dupin 's equation of his indicatrix , is readily deduced .
From this are immediately derived some properties of the radii of curvature , first shown by Dupin ; and likewise the theorem of Meusnier .
The author then enters upon the subject of the lines of curvature .
From the equations A= 0 , B= 0 , of the normal to the surface at a point on it , the equations of the normal at a point near to the former are determined .
That these normals may intersect , which is the condition giving the directions of the lines of curvature , the two sets of equations must simultaneously exist ; and hence are deduced the differential equations of condition for the lines of curvature , dk dk die dB dB die ?
j_ . ?
^ = 0 ?
+ ? ? ?
= 0 dx die dx y dx die dx By this method , which fundamentally is not very different from that of Monge , substituting the usual expressions for A and B , the equa ?
tion that determines the directions of the lines of curvature is deduced , in the form in which it had been previously given by Monge and Dupin .
This final equation becoming at an umbilic of the form , in which ?
^ may be indeterminate , the author inquires how this in ?
d x determinate form will affect the equations of condition .
As by this supposition , these are reduced to equations from which would result the conditions that would render all the coefficients of the determi ?
ning equation 0 , it is inferred that ?
must be indeterminate , and dx that therefore , at an umbilic there issue lines of curvature in all directions .
Of these lines of curvature , it is possible that some may be distinguished from others , by proceeding from the point in more intimate contact with the osculating sphere , and it is therefore necessary to determine the analytical character of such particular lines of cur ?
vature .
With this view , the author resumes the equation of the normal in the immediate vicinity of the umbilic .
He then points out , that a straight line , whose equations contain the second dhTerential coefficients , thus involving a new condition , will coincide more nearly with this normal , than can any straight line not having that condition .
That the lines may intersect in the centre of the oscu ?
lating sphere , their equations must simultaneously exist ; and thus , that which most nearly coincides with the normal in the immediate vicinity of the umbilic has the new conditions , d*A odlA di &lt; L*A die * dx* + dx die ' dx +d y* ' dx* ~ ?
' d*B &lt; **B__ die d*B die * _ T** +2 d~x~dy ' dx " * " die * " dx~ &gt; ~ ?
' in addition to the former ones .
From this it appears , that when the direction of a line of curvature issuing from an umbilic is such as to fulfil , besides the ordinary con ?
ditions , the foregoing new conditions , that line of curvature will lie more closely to the osculating sphere than any other not satisfying these additional equations .
These new conditions arise from differentiating the preceding ones with respect to x and y , considered as dV dependent , regarding -jas constant ; and as these are equivalent to a single condition ( Monge 's and Dupin 's equation ) it will be sufficient to differentiate this , under the above restrictions , in order to obtain a single condition equivalent to the new ones .
As this single condition will appear under the form of an equation of the third degree in ~ , there will , in general , be at least one line of curvature , proceeding from the umbilic , of more than ordinary closeness to the osculating sphere ; and there may be three .
If , indeed , this equa ?
tion of the third degree should , like that of the second from which it is deduced , be identical for the coordinates of the umbilic , it is obvious from the investigation , that we must then proceed to another differentiation ; and so on , till we arrive at a determinate equation , the real roots of which will make known the number and directions of the lines of closest contact .
When , however , the author remarks in conclusion , all the lines of curvature issuing from the umbilic are equally close to the osculating sphere , then these successive differentiations will either at length exhaust the coefficients , and thus no determinate equation will arise ; or else they will conduct to an equation whose roots are all imaginary : and one or other of these circumstances must always take place at the vertex of a surface of revolution .

