]\gt ; On Vapour-pressure and Osmotic Pressure of Strong Solutions .
By H. L. CALLENDAR , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics at the Imperial College of Science and Technology .
( Received March 10 , \mdash ; Read March 19 , 1908 .
) 1 .
The relations between vapour-pressure , osmotic pressure , and concentration of solutions are of great interest , and have been the subject of recent communications by Lord Berkeley and Hartley , by Spens , and by Porter .
I propose in the present paper to develop a theory of solutions , based on a simple relation between the vapour-pressure and the concentration , which appears to give a very fail account of the phenomena observed in the case of strong solutions , and is at the same time a natural extension of the present theory as applied to dilute solutiol ) .
Before discussing the theory itself , I propose to fresh proofs of some of the more important relations already accepted , for the sake of indicating clearly the order of approximation attempted , and of illustrating methods of proof which I have employed in teaching for many years , but which do not appear to be generally known .
: between Hydrostatic Pressure .
2 .
By considering the isotherlnal equilibrium of a liquid and its vapour in a capillary tube of radius , Lord deduced the well-known relation between the vapour-pressure at the curved surface and the normal vapour- pressure at a plane surface , in terms of the surface tension , and the densities of the liquid and vapour and , ( 1 ) where is positive if the surface is conyex .
The effect was regarded by LoTd Kelvin as bein due to curvature , but showed that it might be regarded simply as an effect of hydrostatic pressure , and explained the equilibrium of ice and water under pressure on this basis .
Since the pressure inside a spherical drop of radius exceeds the vapour-pressure outside it by 2 , substituting for we obtai1l , , ( 2 ) which is equivalent to the expression given by .
Since the relation 'Phil .
Mag [ 4 ] , vol. 42 , p. 448 , 1871 .
'Phil .
Mag [ 12 ] , p. 40 , 1881 .
-press Osmotic of ' Strong Solutions .
467 applies only to small differences of pressure in this form , it is more convenient to write it in the differential notation , ( 3 ) which is perfectly accurate if and are the specific volumes of the liquid and vapour at the pressures and respectively .
By integrating equation ( 3 ) between corresponding limits of and 1 ) , the variation of vapourpressure with pre.ssure ma } be obtained with considerable accnracy over wide ranges of pressure and temperature .
principal source of uncertainty is the compressibility of the liquid .
If we put , assuming the compressibility to be constant , and if we take ( where represents the defect of volume of the vapour from the ideal volume and is to a first approximation a function of the temperature only ) , we obtain , ( 4 ) where , and corresponding limits of and .
According to this equation it would require a pressure of about only to increase the vapour-pressure of water fourfold at ) .
The approximate equation ( 2 ) , which is often applied to such calculations , would upwards of 4600 atmospheres .
The term is igible at this temperature , as is so small , but it amounts to about 17 per cent. at C. , if .
It has the of considerably the required when is large .
-sierc Jletho 3 .
It is easier to form a mental pictule of the variation of vapour-pressure with hydrostatic pressure , if we the liquid contained in a vertical tube perforated with very fine holes .
If the holes are fine enough and are not wetted by the liquid , the liquid cannot escape , but the vapour has free passage .
If such a tube is surrouuded by vapour in an isothermal enclosure , the liquid must be in with its vapour at all points , hich leads immediately to equation ( 3 ) .
If the holes are wetted by the liquid the arrangement will apply for negative values of P. deduces that the pressure of the vapour molecules in the lnterior of the liquid at any point of such a tube muSt be everywhere ) to the pressul'C of the vapour immediately outside the ) .
Therc is reason for that the vapoul'pressure in the liquid is not lmerely proportionai to that outside , but is to it , in other words that it is everywhere the same as if the liquid were Callendar , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 67 , p. 270 , 1900 .
the -constant , ' divided by the molecular weight of the vapour .
468 Prof. H. L. .
On -pressure and [ Mar. 10 , absent .
I have shown*that such an assumption appears to account satis- factorily for the variation of the specific heat in the case of water .
The same reasoning precisely applies if the vapour-sieve tube contains any solution in place of a pure liquid .
Equilibrium will be rapidly established by condensation or evaporation of the vapour until condition ( 3 ) is satisfied .
column of pure solvent in equilibrium with the same vapour colunm must be in equilibrium with the solution at corresponding heights .
If the holes in the vapour-sieve are fine enough to permit passage only to the vapour molecules , we may imagine the solution column surrounded by the solvent column without disturbing the equilibrium .
The difference of hydrostatic pressure between the columns of solution and solvent at any height is the osmotic pressure corresponding to the concentration and hydrostatic pressure of the solution the point considered .
In other words , we may regard a semi-permeable membrane , such as is usually postulated in considering osmotic pressure , as being in reality a vapour-sieve , permeable only to the vapour .
Such an assumption does not appear to be inconsistent with any of the well-established facts regarding osmotic pressure , and gives a somewhat simpler physical conception of the phenomena of osmosis .
Application of the Vapour-sieve Piston .
4 .
Without assuming that a vapour-sieve be made to act as a semi-permeable membrane in osmotic experiments between solution and solvent , it is to show by the application of a vapour-sieve piston that the vapour-pressures of solution and solvent are the same ( under any hydrostatic pressures ) when they are in osmotic equilibrium through a semipermeable membrane .
Suppose that the solution and solvent are in equilibrium , as indicated in fig. 1 , on either side of a semi-permeable lnembraneB under pressures and applied by means of vapour-sieve pistons A and C. The pressure-difference is the osmotic pressure If the arrangement is contained in an isothermal enclosure , through which the vapour has free circulation , the vapour-pressure of the solution under pressure must be equal to the vapour-pressure of the solvent under pressure .
Otherwise a continuous supply of work might be obtained by utilising the pressure-difference of the vapour .
By similar reasoning we may assert generally that any two solutions in equilibrium through any kind of membrane or capillary surface must have the same vapour-pressures in respect of each of their constituents which are capable of through the SUl.face of separation .
This has for a long time been * Phil. Trans , 1902 , p. 147 .
1908 .
] Osmotic Pressure of Solutions .
gen erally admitted , but the vapour-sieve piston supplies what is perhaps the simplest proof based on known physical properties .
We have seen that equation ( 3 ) must apply accurately to the equilibrium between a vertical column of solution and vapour under the action of ravity , but there is one respect in the equilibriunl of such a solution differs from that of ) pure solvent .
The concentration of the solution is independently variable , and must vary in such a manner as to make equation ( 3 ) hold .
The variation of vapour-pressure with height in such a column of solution is not necessarily that due to variation of pressure alone .
This has been recognised by Spens and Porter , who have deduced the variation with pressure independently of concentration , by the method of an ermal cycle .
The cycles which they employ appear , ever , to be unnecessarily complicated .
Porter applies pressul'e by means of an inert is assumed not to dissolve in the liquid or alter its and which adds unnecessary terms to the equation , besides requiring the FIG. l.\mdash ; Equality of Vapour-pressure in FIO .
2.\mdash ; Change of Vapour-pressure of a motic Equilibrium .
Solution with Hydrostatic Pressure .
application of an additional piston permeable to the vapour but not to the gas .
The result may be more simply and directly deduced by the aid of vapour-sieve alone .
Imagine unit mass of solution of volume confined in a cylinder ABC between a fixed vapour-sieve , and a solid piston , by which pressure is applied .
The vapour , at pressure , corresponding to , is confined by a solid piston , which will suppose at first to be in contact with , so that the volume of the vapour is initially zero .
The cycle is as follows:\mdash ; Keeping the pressures constant , evaporate small mass } of The work done by the piston is .
Tho work done on the piston is PU , where is the rate of diminution of volume of the solution at a pressure per unit mass of solvent abstracted .
The volume of solntiolt remaining is now .
The state of the system at this is that represented in fig. 2 .
( 2 ) Increase the pressure on the lution to , by means of the piston at the same time the piston , so as to keep the vapour in with the solution without condensation .
Suppose the pressure of the 470 Prof. H. L. Callendar .
On Vapour-pre , and [ Mar. 10 , vapour is increased to .
The work done on the system is given by the expression , ( 3 ) Keeping the pressures constant at and , condense the mass of vapour by moving piston into contact with , at the same time moving piston A outwards through a space , where is the value of corresponding to pressure .
The work done on the system is ( 4 ) Release the pressure on the solution to its original value , restoring the original volume .
The work done on the system is Collecting the terms , and observing that , we obtain finally , dp , or , ( 5 which expresses the variation of vapour-pressure of a solution with pressure alone , assuming the temperature and concentration constant .
Variation of uentration in a Vertical Column .
5 .
It appears from this result that the concentration of a vertical column of solution will not remain uniforl } in equilibrium with the vapour at all heights , unless for the solution .
If the whole length of the column is in contact with the vapour through a sieve envelope , the attainlnent of equilibrium with the vapour by condensation and evaporation would be comparatively rapid if the temperature is maintained uniform .
If the solution were contained in an impervious tube , the same final result would be produced by diffusion of the vapour through the solution , but the attainment of equilibrium would be very slow .
Since the whole change of vapour-pressure in such a column in the equilibrium state is iven by , and the partial change due to pressure is given by , the change due to change of concentration is given by .
If is negative , which is generally the case , the increase oi vapour-pressure downwards in such a column will be less than that due to pressure alone , and the concentration will increase with depth .
The values of for any solution are readily deduced from a table of densities or specific volumes for any ation C in rammes of solute per gramme of solution , by the relation , ( 6 ) 1908 .
] Osmotic Pressure Strong Solutions .
which shows that is ative when the density increases with concentration .
Variation of Pressure with Hydrostatic Pressure .
6 .
Since the osmotic pressure is the difference of the vdrostatic pressures and of the solution and solvent when their vapour-pressures are equal , the variation of osmotic pressure with hydrostatic pressure is readily deduced from equation ( 5 ) .
If is the specific volume of the pure solvent , we must have equilibrium , since each is equal to .
The corresponding change of osmotic pressure is equal to the difference , whence , , or .
( 7 ) If there is no change in the osmotic pressure with hydrostatic pressure .
This is equivalent to the assumption made by Lord Berkeley and Mr. Hartley*that the osmotic pressure varies with concentration only , which appears from their experiments to be approximately true for some solutions .
The relation between the equilibrium pressures and for solution and solvent corresponding to the same value of the vapour-pressure is immediately obtained by integrating formula ( 5 ) between corresponding limits for solution and solvent .
We have evidently , , and whence 8 ) where are the vapour-pressures of solution and solvent , each the pressure of its vapour only .
agrees precisely with the result obtained by Porter , but it seems better to deduce it from ( 5 ) in place of special cycle .
The osmotic pressure may readily be deduced from the -pressures and for any value of or if the value of is known .
The most uncertain element in the calculation is the variation of with pressure .
If is the value of the osmotic pressure when the solvent is under its own vapour-pressure only , or when , the term containing vanishes , and he limit of integration is .
Similarly , if is the osmotic pressure when the solution is under its own vapourpressure only , or when and , the telYn containing 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 77 , p. 156 , 1906 .
472 Prof H. L. Callendar .
On -pressure and [ Mar. 10 , vanishes .
The limits of the are the same in both cases , and we obtain , assuming ( 9 ) where , are the mean values of and taken wich respect to pressure between the corresponding limits of integration .
The term containing is retained , though unimportant at ordinary temperatures , because is about 75 times as large as for water at and because it becomes important in comparison with when is large .
For most experimental purposes the small terms the factor may be neglected .
We then have , approximately , .
( 10 ) The values of are the same for solutions having the same vapourpressure : or the values of the vapour-pressure will be very nearly the same for isotonic solutions tested under atmospheric pressure .
But caImoC be directly measured by balancing against the pure solvent , as the value of the pressure on the solvent is large and negative , being approximately equal to .
The osmotic measured by direct experiment , with the solvent under atmospheric pressure , is approximately equal to , and is correctly related to the vapour-pressure of the same solution by equation ( 10 ) , as was proved approximately by Spens , but more accurately by Porter .
For an actual vertical column of solution in equilibrium , equation ( 3 ) applies accurately , with the specific volume of the solution in place of This gives the approximate equation usually quoted , namely , , ( 11 ) where is the mean specific volume of the solution column , is the osmotic pressure at the bottom of the column , and is the vapour-pressure at the top , where the concentration is generally different .
Lord Berkeley and Mr. Hartley , in comparing their observations of vapour-pressure and osmotic pressure for the same solutions , found that the values of the osmotic pressure calculated from the vapour-pressure by equation ( 11 ) were much larger t , han those directly measured for the same solutions , and rightly attributed the discrepancy to variation of concentration in the imaginary Porter and Spens retain the term but neglect the much larger term .
1908 .
] Osrnotic Pressnre of Solutions .
icnl column by which equation ( 11 ) is deduced .
They therefore deduced the .
expre sion , , ( 12 ) which corl.ectlyreI ) esents t ) relation between the osmotic pressure and the vapour-pressure 1 of the solution the ' of snch a colunnl .
In this equation to the conditions of their experi1nents , they the assumption that the oslnotic pressnre vary only concentration , , ( that the value of ated from ) tion ( ) for the osmotic pressure at the top of the column ( where the solvent is nnder tive pressure ) would bc the anle the osmotic ) directly nred for a solution of the same tion with the under lospheric pressure .
The reenlent of their with equation ) yould appear to imply , pens pointed out , that is equal to for the solutions they elnployed .
) value of iven by tion ( or ) is not equal to of 1 in equation , even if hen solution and under pressure , because the mean values are taken ) nd tTatiye pressures respectively .
The di flel.ence , however , would to ) less than 1 per cent. for the largest measured by Lord Mr. Hartley .
of VcrticaT 7 .
The variation of concentration in a column of solntion nnder gravity can be determined if the density and osmotic pressure are nctions of the concentration .
osmotic at the bottonl of such a iven 1 ) quation ( ] 1 ) exceeds the value of 1 equation ( 10 ) for a solution a composition to the normal ssnre p in the ) ortion of to solutions , the value of ) determined readily roxinlation .
But if Che diffel.ence is small , if the tion t is defined cqnation ( 6 ) , we have ) where is the of to of pressures , and , are the me{n of centration , ) otic pressure , and specific volume for colnlnlt .
It may be to } example , the inlio of tion in a vertical colunnl the solutions by keley and Mr. Hartley , for which the data ( available .
concentration in of per litre of solution .
If V0L .
LXXX .
3 , 474 Prof H. L. Callendar .
On -pressure and [ Mar. 10 , oncentration measured in this way is denoted by , while denotes , as before , the in rammes per gramme of solution , we .
The values of and for the solutions at C. are calculated from Landolt and Bornstein 's tables of the densities of cane-sngar solutions at C. , in which the concentration is expressed in grammes of per 100 grammes of solution .
Table iation of Concentration in a Vertical Column of of at C. The first four mlns contain the data for the solutions employed , and correspond to the concentration at the top of the imaginary vertical column .
and are the osmotic pressure and concentration at the bottom of column .
is the mean specific volume , which is seen to differ little from that at the top .
The variation of concentration is considerable , and illustrates the order of error involved in applying the usual formula ( 12 ) to case of strong solutions .
) cnnlllbers in last colnmn appear to indicate a systematic error in the experimental numbers for strong solutions .
They would be more regular if the theoretical } ) ression given below for the motic pessure were employed in the calculation .
Th Osmotic 8 .
A case of special interest , as corresponding more closely with the kind of osmotic which actually occtlrs in nature , is the cellular osmotic column .
If a series of minute osmotic cells with flexible walls are disposed in a vertical supported by fibrous material , and surrounded by an atmosphere of vapour , the hydrostatic pressure will be nearly uniform throughout the column , and equal to the -pressure .
Such a column will be iu ilibrium when the concentration at any height is such that the vapour-pressure of the solution is equal to that in a column of vapour at the same .
Supposing that the vapour-pressure at the base is equal to that of the pure solvent , the concentration will increase from zero upwards , and the osmotic pressure referred to pure solvent at any is that given 908 .
] Osmotic Pressure of Strong Solutions .
equation ( 10 ) .
The con centration at any height is the same as that at he top of a continuous column of solution of the same , but the leyation of the solvent is obtained more economically , without any excessive ressure differences , and with less than half the quantity of dissolved lbstance .
Since the osmotic pressure at any height depends on , and not on as 1 a continuous vertical column , it would appear at first as though the tion of gravity in the concentration were eliminated by the lular arrangement .
But this is not the case , because the concentration in little cell must in the same way as in a vertical colnmn .
The [ fect of this is to make the elementary difference of osnotic pressure veen le top of one cell and the bottom of the next reater in the proportion of to than it would be if the concentration were uniform in each cell .
ince the direction of the chnnge of concentration in each cell depends on le direction of gravity , it would appear that rayity must exelt some irective action on orowth of the plant on this account .
In a lant the conditions are seldom those of ilibrium or constant temperature , nd many other factors ore operative , but the consideration of the condition equilibrium is important , because the rate of osmosis will be detel.mined hieHy by the extent of the tnre from the condition of ulibrium .
of the cuit .
9 .
A circuit consisting of different phases containing one component in ommon presents many points of with an electric circuit .
The nalogy is particularly close between tbermoelectric and circuits .
electromotive force round a circuit is measured by in aking unit quantity of electricity round the circuit , and is zero in a thermo}lectric circuit when there is IlOdiffel.ence of temperature .
Silnilarly , in an otic circuit in rium n uniform temperature , the work done in unit mass of round the circuit 1nust be zero .
Jlxternal forces , such as gravity , the work done is represented by the taken round the cil.cuit between limits to the points between the phases , here U is the increase of volume of the phase onsidered per unit mass of solyeut added at a pressure 1 ) .
The method of the osmotic circuit essentially corresponds to the familiar method of the isothermal cycle , but it has the that the limits of are obvious , and that the correct result can be written down in any case by mere inspection ; whereas the method of the isothermal cycle is often very complicated and difficult to follow , as may be seen by eference to the 476 Prof H. L. Callendar .
On -pressure and [ Mar. 10 , examples given Spens and Porter .
A number of unnecessary terms are introduced , and the greatest care is required to avoid mistakes , of which a large number might be cited .
If we consider a vertical column of liquid or solid , in equilibrium with its vapour through a vapour-sieve envelope as in Section 2 , taking the integral of round any circuit partly in the vapour and partly in the liquid or solid , we obtain immediately equation ( 3 ) and its colTesponding .
In the case of a pure liquid , the work done against ravity is negligible , because is the same as the specific volume of the liquid , at all points .
In the case of a solution , where may differ from , the work done against gravity in raising a of specific volume through a solution of specific volume , which is represented by the integral of per unit mass , must be added to the of in the solution .
This the effect of replacing by in the equation , as already explained in Section 1 and takes account of the effect of gravity in altering the concentration .
If this effect of gravity is neglected , and the solution assumed uniform , the method naturally gives the effect of pressure alone , as represented by equation ( 5 ) .
Analogy ?
uith the Isothermal 10 .
A closer COl'respondeuce between the circuit method and the method of the isothermal reversible cycle is obtained if we suppose the pressuredifferences in the circuit utilised for the performance of external work by means of imaginary isothermal reversible motors or pumps .
Let fig. 3 FIG. 3.\mdash ; Osmotic Circuit , Variation .\mdash ; Osmotic Circuit for Solvent , Soluti of -pressure of Solution with and Vapour .
ttic Pressure P. resent such a circuit consisting of solution and vapour separated by vapour-sieve ions A and B. Supl ) isothermal reversible motors included in the curcuit , separating the solution into two parts under pressures and , and the vapoul into two parts under corresponding and .
If the temperature is maintained uniform , the work done by the motor per unit mass of solvent passing it must be 1908 .
] Osmotic of Strong Solutions .
equal and opposite to that done by the motor No external work is done at other points of the circuit .
The done ) unit mass throu the motor is evidently .
( 14 ) Similarly the work done per unit mass of the vapour passing through the 1notor in the direction indicated by the arrows is iven by .
The sum of these must be equal to zero , which corresponds with the result of the sothermai cycle represented ) equation ( 5 ) .
As an additional complication , introduce the solvent into the circuit this really unnecessary , does prove anything llew ) , as indicated in , by supposing it separated from the solution by a semi-permeable membrane under es and respectively , such equals the osmotic pressure .
An equiyalent method is to employ a pair of vapour we partitions A and , separated by a space containing vapour at the common prebsure .
The motors serve to reduce the of the solvent and solution respectively to equilibrium with their normal vapour-pressures The vapour is separated into two parts at pressures ) by the llotor to zero the sun of the external work done the three Jnotors , we have This corresponds with the isotherlnal cycle out by Port but the circuit method enables the process to be displayed phically , and the physical terpretation of term in the result is made ' obvious .
L'ffect of on of 11 .
In an isothermal or cycle the sum of the tiCies of heat absorbed and liberated lllust be equal to zero .
Applied to the isothermal circuit of fig. 1 , in which solvent and solution in oblnotic equilibrium under and this condition leads to the result that the latent heat of porisation of solution at A nrust be to the latent heat of condensation of the solvent at , under tho same pressure plus the heat evolved on dilution at .
( 16 ) Applied to the osmotic circuit of , the condition ives the rate of 478 Prof H. L. Callendar .
On [ Mar. 10 , variation of the latent heat of vaporisation of a solution with change of pressure at constant temperature .
The heat absorbed in vaporisation at plus the heat absorbed in the motor equals the heat evolved in condensation at , plus the heat evolved in the motor .
Supposing for convenience that the of pressure is small , or that , and , the heat absorbed in the motor is , which ia approximately equal to the work done , since is nearly equal to for the vapour .
The heat absorbed in the motor is similarly equal to .
Since , we have evideutly the relation , A precisely similar relation applies for the pure solvent , with the substitution of , the specific volume of the pure solvent , in place of U. If we apply this relation to the case of water C. , at which temperature under atmospheric pressure , we find the rate of increase of the latent heat per atmosphere of equal to ergs , or a pressure of about 42 atmospheres would be required to increase the latent heat by 1 calorie .
The change at other temperatures can be deduced from a of the coefficient of expansion .
of Osmotic Pressure .
12 .
The several theories of osmotic pressure now current may be roughly classified under four heads : ( 1 ) The -pressure theory , according to which the osmotic pressure due to the molecules of the solute is the same as that which would be exerted by the same number of molecules of gas occupying the same vohume at the same temperature .
( 2 ) The surface-tension theory , according to which the pressure developed is due to surface-action or difference of surface-tension .
( 3 ) The association , or hydrate theory , according to which the are due to residual chemical affinity between solvent and solute , resulting in the formation of hydrates or similar molecular complexes .
( 4 ) The vapour-pressure theory , according to which the motic pressure is simply the pressure required to produce equilibrium of vapour-pressure between the solvent and solution .
It is probable that all the theories possess some elements of truth , and that they may be to some extent merely different aspects of the same phenomenon .
As an illustration of the deviation of the experimental results from the usually accepted theory , the observations of Lord Berkeley and Mr. on the osmotic pressures of strong solutions of cane-sugar and dextrose at C. are plotted in the accompanying diagram , fig. 5 .
In their papers the results are tabulated and plotted in terms of concentration in grammes Solutio of per litrof solution , which has , enerally been adopted in dealing with osmotic pressure in consequence of Hoff 's theory .
It is more convenient , however , dealing with osmotic pressures or depressions of the freezing-point in solntions , to plot the results in terms concentration expressed in rammes of solule per amme of solvent , because for normal solutions such as cane-sugar the curves are more nearly straight , and the deviation of the observations from the theoretical curves can be 7 8 9 FIG. 5.\mdash ; Osmotic Pressures of Solutions of Cane-sugar and Dextrose .
more 1eadily estimated .
In dealing with densities or specific volumes it is generally better to employ percentage concentration 100 ammes of solute per 100 gralnn]es of solution ) in terms of which they usually tabulnted .
The relation between the three modes of , the concentration is In solutions of different substances it is necessary to } ) the results in terms of the ratio of the number of molecules of the dissolved substance to the number of molecules of the solvent in the solution , 480 Prof H. L. Callendar .
On -pressure [ Mar. 10 , the relations involved are of a molecular nature .
We have , where and are the molecular weights of solvent and solute 1'especCively .
In plotting the observations in fig. 5 , is taken as equal to 100 , and the values of the osmotic pressure are plotted against the number of molecules of solute to 100 molecules of .
The molecular weight of water is taken as 18 , and the corresponding values for caneand dextrose as 342 and 180 respectively , which are sufficiently approximate for the purpose .
According to the gas-pressure theory , as usually stated , the pressure exerted should be iven by the formula , ( 18 ) where is the gas-constant and the voluuJe of unit mass of solution containing -molecules of .
It is well-known that this gives values of which are D1UC too st1lall for strong solutions , in fact nearly three times too small for the solutions of cane-sugar tested Lord Bel.keley and Mr. Hartley , as shown by the curve marked I in .
A better approxiu ) ation is obtained if V is replaced by the volume of solvent in the solution , namely ( 1-C ) , which gives .
( 19 ) This , is to the covolume term from the volume occupied , as in the tion of Van der Waals .
But this is not sufficient in the of , as by the straight line marked II in esidnal ( pancy may be accounted for by introducing empirical terlDs in the equation as indicated by Lord erkeley in his note ] ) of der to is not ether scause so many different types of cquation are possible , and the empirical constants cannot be interreted , or from other roperties of the substances concerned .
The surt.ace-tension and hydrate , as usually stated , are uuprofitable , because they do not } ) to of the calculation of the osmotic pressure for comparison with the results of experiment .
There is no doubt differences of surface-energy exist between the solution and solvent , and that molecular complexes are formed in solution , and that such eH'ects give rise to a difference of ressure , but the relation between the phenonlena is not directly capable of numerical expression in obvious llla]lner .
The -pressure theory tedly t most practical , because is a definite and simple ] tion between the and the 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 79 , p. 125 .
1908 .
] Pressure of osmotic pressure , which has closel ) ) ents of Lord Berkeley and Mr. HarLlcy for strong solntions .
It reulains to seelI whether the -pressure of a solution can be theoletically related in any simple .
to its molecular constitution .
A step in this ( lirection has been made ) \ldquo ; supposes thnt each molecule of the solute collbines itlj lllolecules of solvent in such a nner as to Iihenl iuactive for ) tion .
If there nolecules of to of lvent in the solution , the atio of the vapour-pressures ) ' of and solvent should in that ) to the ratio of nullber of free molecules of ) to the whole nnber of lnolecnles of in the solution .
thus obtain the tions In order to reconcile asstlnptionY ith Baoult 's } for dilute non-electrolytes , it is sary to suppose , or of solute combine es only one lnolecu13 of solvent .
are the molecnlar of the solute in solution and of the ) of the solven ) substitution in 2 ) or , putting and roximate result , which is alent iven 1 ply Jtion only to dilute solutions : does even The adv of maki 1ption with to tion of the ressure with the number of free nlolecules is it ives a simple , without of the fact that the osmotic ) ssure 1 ) to depend ulore on } occupied by the in the solution on the )hole v of the solution .
The particular ption made ppeal to qnite SOIlS :(1 ) it does not represent csnlts of sufficiently closely solutionls , it is to that each molecule ) ines ] Dlolecule of .
If each molecule of the incs with two three 01 molecules of olvent , the ] ) ssurc t the of the point , on ) , would ) twofold or fold , in tion to the number of nles to each molecule of bolute .
At old give ) on the se of electrolytes , if thele were not so ] ) conclusive evidcnc that ] } ellect in case is due to dissocition or llultiplication of existence multiple hydrates ) rather lead one to expect the 'Phil .
, vol. 42 , p. 208 , 482 Prof H. L. Callendar .
On -pressu [ Mar. complexes occurring in solutions often contain several molecules of and that the number of molecules of solvent each complex may vary considerably without producing so marked an effect on the vapour-pressure or the freezing-point as would be indicated by Poynting 's theory .
A more natural assumption to make with regard to the dependence of the vapour-pressure on the number of molecules in the solution would appear be that the ratio is equal to the ratio of the number of free llolecules of solvent to the whole number of molecu'les in the solution , .
instead of to the number of molecules of solvent .
On this view , each molecular complex is treated as a single molecule , and it is immaterial , .
a first approximation , how many molecules of solvent it may contain .
If each molecule of solute appropriates ] of solvent , and if denote , as before , the whole number of molecules of solute and solvent respectively in the solution , the number of free molecules of solvent is , and the whole number of molecules in solution is .
We thus obtain , Ratio of ressures elative Lowering of Vapour-Pressure ) , Lowering elative to tiou .
( 21 ) This agrees with Poynting 's assumption in the special case where and coincides with in the limit for dilute solutions , be of .
But it makes a very considerable difference in the case of strong solutions .
In applying the assumption to strong solutions , it is necessary to employ the logarithmic formula ( 10 ) , namely , , in place of the approximate formula ( 2 ) .
The curves in are drawn to represent the values of the osmotic pressure for the cases and , which to represent the ations on dextrose and cane-sugar within the limits of experimental error .
The product is plotted in place of because the correction for is small and somewhat doubtful , and was not applied by Lord Berkeley and Mr. Hartley .
The highest points for cane-sugar at lie below the curve , but the agreement is sufficiently close suggest that the formation of lnolecular complexes containing several molecules of solvent is a very probable explanation of the main features of the riation of osmotic pressure with concentration in solutions of the same kind as those of cane-sugar .
It will be observed that since , the expres- sion for the osmotic pressure reduces approximat , cly to the form , ( 22 ) 1908 .
] Osmotic Pressnre of Strong when is small compared with .
Here is the volume occLlpied by 1 gramme-molecule of the solvent in the solution ; is the number of free molecules of the solvent in the solution to of the solute .
The osmotic pressure is therefore approximately to thnt vould be exerted by molecules of gas in the volume occupied Oy the remaining free molecules of the solven .
The gas-pressure analogy still holds to this extent as a iirst approximation , even in fairly strong .
But it would be the unduly to regard the pressure which the molecules would exert in an yinary volume if they were seous as the primary cause of the phenomena of osmotic pressure .
In reality the equilibrium depends on equality of } ) ressure .
If vapour is supplied to solution at a pressure in excess of the normal pressure of the solution , the vapour will condense in the solntion , and condensation will continue until either the pressure , or the temperature , or the concentration of the solution , is ] in such a manner as to estore equilibrium between the solution and the vaponr .
The assumption of a simple the vapour-pressure seems also better agreement with experiment than the assumption of a similar relation for the gas-pressul.e .
-point Solutions .
13 .
Direct measurements of the vapour-pressure or osmotic pressure strong solutions are very difficult , and there is little material for testing the theory in direction .
Observations of the of the freezing-point are more numerous , and less liable to serious errol , although they present considerable difficulties in the case of strong solutions .
the usual case of the solvent separating out in the pure state on freezing , the vapour-pressure of the solution the fi.eezing-point must be equal to that of the solid solvent .
Taking the case of aqueous solutions for simplicity of description , in order to find the osmotic pressure of a solution at its point we have merely to snbstitutc the value of the vapour-pressul.e of ice in of the ) ressure of the solution in for1uula ( 10 ) for the motic pressure .
The determination of vapour-pressure , or nloleculnr w or osmotic pressure , by the method depends , therefore , primarily on the relation between the vapour-pressures of ice water below the -point .
The difference of -pressures of ice water a teml ) erature .
near the , -point C. is crenerally obtained Kirchhofl 's approximate fornlula , 484 Prof. H. L. Callendar .
On -pressure and [ Mar. 10 , where li is the latent heat of fusion , and the volume of the vapour .
Putting for , and for , and substituting , we obtain , .
( 24 ) Equating this to the approximate formula for relative lowering of the vapour-pressure of the solution in terms of the osmotic pressure and the concentration , we have the usual relation .
( I ) This gives for the " " molecular \ldquo ; of the freezing-point produced by 1 -molecule of solute grammes of solvent , in the case of water , the value , or for 1 gramme-molecule in 100 ) of water the value , if is taken as calories , and calories .
Results for the lowering of the fi.eezing-point in strong solutions are generally compared by tabulating the molecular lowering deduced from different ranges of temperature , for comparison with the approximate result given by this formula .
This method illustrates the wide divergence of the experimental results from the approximate formula , but it does not much on the causes of the divergence , because the approYximate formula deduced on such assumptions could nol be expected to hold at all accurately except in the im1nediate neighbourhood of the freezing-point .
The formula tacitly assutues that the ratio the difference of vapour- pressures of ice and water to the vapour-pressure of water is directly proportional to .
To give some idea of involved in the case of strorlg solutions , values of calculated on this assumption tabulated under the .
I in the Table II , for comparison with the values given ) more accurate A method adopted in many books is to integrate Kirchhoff 's equation on the assumption that the latent heat of fUsion , or rather difference of the latent heats of vaporisation of the solid and liquid , is constant , which leads at once to the result , .
( II ) This fits very well formula ( 10 ) .
the osmotic pressure , giving the simple expression , but since the specific heats of water and ice are known to differ llsiderably , the values to which it leads are probably quite as much in error as those deduced on the first assumption .
The resulting values of ) are ) iveu iu the table under the heading II , are seen to differ from those given by I by about 8 per cent. at C. and about 16 per .
at C. equation is no doubt preferable to I 1908 .
] Osmotic Pressmre 485 , as corresponding to a simple and deHnite assumption , but the umption is certainly , it would be futile to apply the equation to solutions .
Eq for th -prcssnres of tcrm ; of tl , Hcat 14 .
In order to obtain a more accurats equation it is necessRt.y to take account of the erence of the specitic heats , which to the variation of the latent heat of fusion .
This may be done in uy , but it affords a example of the circuit method .
yine a circuit of parallel columns of ice and water , AB , in at eithel end with vapour at C. , and vapour at , as indicated in .
Suppose FIG. .\mdash ; Circuit lfethod for Ratio of } ) of Ice ) in terlns of the tSpecific unit mass to travel round circuit in the direction indicated , starting the state oi vapour at C. under pressure which is the same for ice and water .
Heat is evolved in condensation to afer ( C. Heat .
is evolved in cooling for each elenoent from to where is the specific heat of water under -pressure is in evaporation at at a pressure .
The yapour is ) expanded a lnctor at constant per ture - to a pressure .
the of ice at .
The work done ill the motor is the of is equal to the heat ) ] ) .
Heat is evolved in ) ndens to ice at .
The of is absorbed in .
to where is the specific heat of ice lulder its -pressure , heat is orbed in evaporation at C. vork done by the Ulsiull of the solid or liquid may ] , the ) very ) volmnes of the solid and quite rible compals( with of the ) 486 Prof H. L. Callendar .
On Vapour-pressure [ Mar. 10 , By the first law , equating the heat absorbed to the work done , we obtain , .
( 25 ) By the second law , taking the integral of round the circuit , .
( 26 ) Substituting from ( 25 ) in ( 26 ) for , and the latent heat of fusion at C. , for the difference of the latent heats of vaporisation at , we obtain the required relation in terms of and the specific heats . .
( 27 ) This result is equivalent to equation II with added terms representing the effect of the difference of the specific heats .
The integrals cannot be evaluated exactly ithout a knowledge of the 1node of variation of the specific heat with temperature , but we shall evidently obtain a much better approximation than either I or II if we assume constant and equal to its value at C. The most probable value of the difference of the specific heats of ice and water at C. to be .
Putting , and , we obtain the nulnerical formula , .
( II1 ) The first term is the same as in II .
The second term , depending on the specific heats , is maJl because is nearly equal to when is small .
Its value to a first approximation is .
Values deduced from this formula are given in column II1 .
They lie nearly midway between those boiven by I and II .
mode of variation of the specific heat of water at temperatures below C. cannot be determined satisfactorily by experiment .
It probably increases with fall of temperature , being continuous with the curve above C. The ciiic heat of ice appears to diminish with fall of temperature .
Regnault finds the value for icc ( corrected ) and C. Nordmeyer ftnd Bernouilli give between and-185o .
The probable error involved in the variation of tlJe specific heat is small , and can be estimated by making rent assumptions .
If we suppose for instance that the difference of the specific heats varies directly as the absolute temperature , or that , we obtain the simple result , .
( 28 ) If , this ives the numerical formula , .
( IV ) A 908 .
] Osmotic Pressure of Solntions .
If , on the other hand , we make the exactly opposite isumption , that varies as , or obtain the equation , .
( V ) Values calculated are iven in columns and .
The differences from column III } ) robably within the limits of of knowledge of the specific heats at C. The olute value of is more important for our ) than a knowledge of the llode of variation .
It will be observed iu the values of in colunrns 1II , , and , with the values iven in they learly equal ; the differences about per cent. to C. The values are all very nearly ) oportional to , at least within the limits oi possible error of our of .
If we assume , in ( 28 ) , or eqnation would red ) very simple form , ( VI ) is the no as II , except that replaced .
This reqltires a rather smaller value the } ) heat of ice thnn accepted , the uncertaintv our ) of the specific iornnula has been adopted in the calculations the sake of Jlicity , as it has a definite theoretical basis , rees with III or within } ) ] ) limits of error many cases mula hich { ] ) the probable i1lcrease of fall of erat e with experiment , and it may ally prove to be a ) than the silcr Table IT .
Values of for Ice and to 488 Prof H. L. Callendar .
-pressure and [ Mar. 10 ; The ] column contains the value of the ratio of the vapour-pressures of water and ice required for calculating the lowering of the freezing-point by the rule for vapour-pressure of a solution given in equations ( 21 ) .
It may be remarked that this ratio cannot be taken from tabulated values of the -pressures of water and ice , such as those ooiven in Landolt and Bornstein 's tables ( based partly on the work of Thiesen and Scheel ) , because the vapour-pressures of water below the .-point cannot be determined experimentally with sufficient accuracy for the purpose , since the erence of vapour-pressure is very small .
Thus the ratio of the vapour-pressures at C. from the tables is , and the required difference is about 15 per cent. too small .
But the tabulated vapour-pressures for ice agree with those calculated by the autho1 's method* to within a few thousandths of a millimetre , on the assumption that its specific heat is and equal to that of steam .
Application to -Elcctrolytes .
10- .
In order to apply this table to the of the freezing-point of a , the values of , taken from the last column , multiplied by plotted against the values of in the diagram , , and vive the curve .
The urVe , if the abscissa is taken to .
represent , the number of molecules of solute to of solvent , should the depression of the freezin ( -point fur a solution for which that is to say the case in which in equations ( 21 ) , or ttJe .
solute does not combine with lnolecules of solvent .
The rves for differeilt values of are found from the curve by ting the values .
of the ratio , find i the values of from the vapour-pressure curve , and the values so found against The straight line is the at C. to the vapourpressure curve , and leplesents the value of the depression of the freezingfor a normal substance according to 's cryoscopic constant for 1 molecule of solute in 100 ammes of solvent .
It gives a fair approximation to the culve of vapour-pressure for weak solutions , the error at being less than 5 per ct !
ltt .
It may ) necessary to point out that this ) differs widely from the assumption of a cryoscopic constant for ) solutions Jnolecules per which is often in reducing frcezing-point ) selvations according to the as ' Roy .
Soc. Proc June , 1900 .
-prcssur ) of water below the freezing- oint are often calculated from } mula .
the latent heat , which peaI S loc. to be inaccurate .
tBIII aax@-auvo ffo Jasqo a msssJd d os xdap a se sBns 5 uo uorssa qsnd q I sanoaom Jdap puw .suap ?
uo spuedap os ) ?
490 Prof. H. L. Callendar .
On essure [ Mar. 10 , , as in the case of the osmotic pressure .
Thus the observed depression at is .
The calculated value for is Va n't Hofl 's rule gives .
For the depression would be .
The depressions recorded in andolt and Bornstein 's tables for methyl and ethyl alcohols , marked A in fig. oree very well with the curve marked , up to molecules per 100 of solvent .
One observation for ethyl alcohol in fig. , at , lies rely off the curve .
[ Note adcled , 1908.\mdash ; Guthrie 's observations*on the freezing of alcohol solutions appear to indicate that a hydrate may separate in place of pure ice when , giving rise to a discontinuity in the F. P. curve .
Analysis of his observations down to C. indicates a third branch extending from to , but the temperatures in this region are probably not very accurate .
The ice branch , giving , can be traced as far as , in the absence of the first hydrate .
] The values for glycerine agree with the curve marked .
The freezing-points for acetone ( Ac ) and formic acid ( F ) lie below the curve in a manner which suggesbs that the dissolved molecules associate with each other in solution according to a similar law , as the points representing the observations lie very symmetrically on either side of the curve marked Application to Electrolytes .
16 .
In applying the theory to electrolytic solutions , we are met by the difficulty that the molecules are dissociated to a variable extent depending on the dilution .
The degree of dissociation is usually inferred from the ratio of the molecular electric conductivity of the solution to that at infinite dilution .
It is very doubtful what this ratio really represents in the case of strongly dissociated electrolytes , as the free ions are so numerous that they must interfere very greatly with each others ' movements .
It is possible that the dissociation is really much greater than that calculated in this manner , but the ratio may nevertheless represent the effective number of free molecules from the point of view of depression of the freezing-point as well as from the point of view of electric conductivity .
Adopting this hypothesis , if is the effective number of molecules , where is the ratio of , the molecular conductivity of the solution , to its limiting value when , for a binary elsctrolyte , he required value of the vapour-pressure ratio should be .
The corresponding depression is F. Guthrie , ' Phys. Soc. Proc vol. 1 , p. 53 , 1874 .
1908 .
] Osmotic Pressure of Strong Solutions .
taken from the vapour-pressure curve and plotted ainsC .
The results for HC1 so far as they go , up to a depression of , agree very well with this hypothesis , taking .
They are plotted in the small scale diagram fig. , and the values of ?
are doubled to make the initial slope agree with the curve O. Thus the depression corresponds with an actual strength , but is plotted ainst .
The curve would otherwise be too steep .
The observations of Boozeboom*for , treated in a similar manner , allowing for the fact that it dissociates into three ions , agree very well with .
To avoid the curve is pJotted a. Thus the observed depression , corresponding to , is plotted against .
The two highest points , at and , lie somewhat off the curve , but accurate ations here would be very difficult , and the ionisation is uncertain .
At , and , Va n't Hoff 's rule , indicated by the curve marked Cs Ions , would give a depression of only .
The present rule , which is more nearly of the right order of magnitude , and illustrates the great influence of the hydration factor is known to form hydrates alarge number of water molecules .
The usual hydrate contains six molecules .
It is quite likely that it would take to itself three others in solution .
The osmotic pressure at , according to the formula ( 10 ) , would be about 600 atmospheres .
Taking the osmotic pressure would be when , or .
The solution would avoid this difficulty by crystallising , or by a change in the value of .
It is probable that mixtures of molecular complexes corresponding to different values of may occur in very strong solutions .
The observations ( Mg ) , fig. , on the depression of the freezing-point of solutions of given in Landolt 's tables , do not extend beyond but so far as they go they indicate a value for the number of molecules in each complex .
Owing to the steepness of the curve , the observed depressions are plotted against the values of doubled .
The curve ( K ) for , which is of quite a different character , agrees very well with the degree of ionisation deduced from the electric conductivity , on the hypothesis that each of the molecules takes one molecule of water .
The curve for would coincide very closely with that for ] if each molecule of took two molecules of , but the observations for NaCldo not appear to extend beyond .
In plotting these observations is not doubled and the initial slope is owing to the iomsation .
'Zeit .
Phys. Chem vol. 4 , p. 42 , 1889 .
pu uo1ss9J(ap snoJsmn I pue $ 1908 .
] Osmotic Pressure of Strong Solutions .
sugar agree very fairly with the curve up to a concentration of between 5 and 6 molecules of sugar to 100 of , which is about the limit of good eement in fig. 5 .
It is perhaps remarkable that the number of molecules to one of should apparently be the same at 10 C. as at C. Beyond this point , as in , the of hydration appears to diminish , being about 4 on the average at ?
, and 3 at .
This is perhaps to be expected , as the mass of the sugar at is about three times the mass of the water present , and the osmotic pressure , when the rise of the boiling-point is , is about 405 atmospheres .
No data appear to exist for the dissociation of electrolytes at or above 10 C. It is probable , however , that the dissociation does not change very reatl with temperature .
The enormous increase in the conductivity of electrolytes with rise of temperature is to be explained chiefly by diminution of viscosity .
Taking Kahlenbel'g 's data for the dissoc , iation of KC1 and at C. , the observations ( K ) on the elevation of the B.P. for solutions of KC1 very well with the vapour-pressm.e theory , if , so far as the data for the dissociation extend , namely up to .
Beyond this point there is one observation at , which appears tolie nearly on a continuation of the same curve .
The observations for ( Na ) agree very well with the curve , up to .
The highest point , at , lies below the curve .
The discrepancy may be due to errors of observation , or may indicate a systematic divergence .
The agreement is much better than would be expected considering the difficulty of the observations , and the uncertainty of the dissociation data .
It is noteworthy that both KC1 and appear to annex many more molecules of at 10 C. than at C. The dissociation data for the other electrolytes examined by Kahlenberg do not extend sufficiently far to be applicable .
Effect of the Heat of 18 .
It is important to enquire how far the simple and convenient , tion made with regard to the dependence of vapour-pressure of a solution on its concentration is consistent with thermodynamical principles .
The variation of the vapour-pressure of a solution with temperature is readily obtained by the circuit method in terms of the latent heat of vaporisation .
What we require in the present case is the variation of the ratio of the vapour-pressures of solvent and solution .
This is immediately iven by a circuit similar to fig. 6 in which the branch AB representing ice is replaced by solution .
Since the vapour-pressures of solution and solvent are not the same at , we must insert an additional motor in the branch 494 Prof H. L. Callendar .
On -pressure [ Mar. 10 , If double dashes , as usual , refer to the solution , and single dashes to the solvent , we thus obtain the equations , , ( 29 ) .
( 30 ) Since ( S11 ) , the heat evolved on dilution per unit mass oi solvent the first equation gives the variation of the heat of dilution with temperature in terms of the difference of the specific heats of the pure solvent , and of the solvent in solytion , which is represented by Writing as an abbreviation for , we obtain the required equation of vapour-pressure in terms of and where is the latent heat of dilution at We observe immediately that the ratio cannot be constant unless is zero .
This is a well-known result , and is approximately true for ions of many substances .
For such substances it is perfectly justifiable to employ the vapour-pressure relation , and it is highly probable that the hydration factor will not vary greatly with temperature with concentration , as we have seen to be the case with solutions of cane-sugar If is not zero , equation ( 31 ) gives a condition which must be satisfied by corresponding variatio1ls of or .
In many solutions the number 01 effective molecules varies continuously with temperature according to the degree of association or dissociation of the molecules of the solute .
The factor may also vary , but it appears in general to have a simple integral value which remains constant for considerable ranges of concentration and temperature , as we have seen in the case of electrolytes .
Equation ( 31 ) , like the analogous equation for the ratio of the vapourpressures of ice and water , may take a variety of forms according to the mode in which varies with temperature .
If is constant , or , the equation reduces to a form similar to that commonly employed by physical chemists for deducing heats of solution from observations of solubility , or vice versd .
The two cases are evidently very closely analogous , and the solubility equation may be deduced by the circuit method in a precisely similar way .
Substituting for the vapour-pressure in terms of the osmotic pressure from equation ( 10 ) , we obtain in this case for the variation of the osmotic pressure with temperature , 1908 .
] Osmotic Pressure of Strong Solutions .
The osmotic pressure will not be proportional to the absolute temperature if , unless is also constant .
But the proportionality may hold even if is not zero , proyided varies in a suitable manner .
If is not zero , we obtain solutions like ( IV ) , ( V ) , and ( VI ) for the vapourpressures of ice and water , by making corresponding assumptions for and the form of the solution may vary widely from that usually assumed .
Another case of special simplicity is that in which varies as , or , which $(Jives -(mq/ B ) , in which case the ratio of the vapour-pressures varies inversely as We may further observe that if is constant , PU is a linear function of , though not proportional to , thus , PU and that if , as in equation ( VI ) for the vapour-pressures of ice and water , PU is a atic function of , namely , PU It is useful to remember the physical meaning of the coefficients in these expressions , which natnrally be applied to represent the variation of the osmotic pressure with temperature .
It also follows from the hrst expression that if is constant and equal to , the product PU will l ) independent of the temperature , to the of approximation represented by equation ( 10 ) .
Heat of and Ionis of 19 .
As an example of the order of magnitude of the effects to be expected , we may take the case of solutioI } of , for which the .
heat of dilution is one of the largest known .
The quantities actually observed in a calorimetric experiment are the integral heats of solntion and dilution obtaiued by making a solution of known composition and diluting with finite quantities of solvent , involving considerable changes in the concentration .
The heat of dilution for an infinitesimal change , required in equation ( 31 ) , may be deduced from the lorimetric observations follows .
By the quantities of heat liberated when 1 grammemolecule of solute is dissolved in X gramme-molecules of solvent ( which is the way in which the observations are generally recorded ) against the concentration in grammes of solute per gramme of solvent , or ainst r for the solution , we obtain the total heat of formation the solution 3 .
496 Prof H. L. Callendar .
On Vapour-pressure and [ Mar. 10 , per gramme-molecule of solute as a function of the concentration or .
In the case of HC1 the curve is very nearly a straight line , * .
( 32 ) The heat of solution at concentration , or the heat evolved on adding a small quantity to a large mass of solution per gramme-molecule added , is represented by , and is given by the equation , The heat of dilution at concentration , or the heat evolved on adding a small quantity of solvent to a large mass of solution per } molecule added , is represented by , and is given by the equation , .
( 34 ) If molecules of solute are added to a large quantity of solution of concentration , the heat evolved is If molecules of solvent sre added , the heat evolved is .
The sum of these two operations must be equal to the heat of formation of a quantity of solution containing molecules of solute to of solvent .
In other words , we have the relation , which is evidently satisfied .
The heat of dilution , which is the quantity with which we are immediately concerned , is very large in the case of , but is given by a very simple exp1ession .
In other cases , e.g. , , the curve is less simple , but may generally be represented as consisting of straight lines , which probably correspond to the formation of different hydrates or ions .
In the case of , the depression of the freezing-point is approximately for a solution which and .
By equation ( 34 ) the heat evolved is 120 calories when 1 gramme-molecule of water is added to a quantity of solution of this concentration .
The heat evolved per of water added , which is denoted by in equation ( 31 ) ( deduced by mit mass of solvent round the circuit ) , is caloriea We see that , even in this very extreme case , the heat of dilution is a comparatively small fractionl of the latent heat of fusion , namely , calories , and will not greatly influence the curve of vapour-pressure .
For dilute solutions , the effect will in any case be ticalJy negligible , since it varies as the square of the concentration .
Since evolution of heat in any case is mainly connected with combination or dissociation of molecules , it is not at all unlikely that the heat of dilution may be accounted for in the of cases by the change in the *The observations appear to have been smoothed to agree with Thomsen 's hyperbolic formula , which inverts into the straight line above given .
1908 .
] of effective number of molecules in the vapour-pressure formula .
This would account to a great extent for the surprisingly good reement obtained in the case of electrolytes ou the assumption constant .
It may be remarked that the reement obtained in any case depends reatly on ' values of the ionisation as near the required telnperatre as possible .
As might naturally be expected , the agreement of the observations at 10 C. is greatly impaired if values of the ionisation at C. are taken .
On the other hand , the agreement of the observations on the depression of the -point is considerably improved , especially for dilute solutions , if values of the ionisation at C. are employed in place of the values at C. Values of the ionisation at C. were at first employed in constructing the , fig. 7 , as being the more accurate , and more readily accessible .
It did not appear to be worth while to redraw the curves the data for the iollisation at C. when accessible , because the data were incomplete , and because the general conclusions ined ullaltered .
Although the agreement with theory was in many cases greatly nproved , the uncertainty of the result for large values of the depression still remained .
The relation of the heat of dilution to the heat of tion and hydration is a most important and interesting question , but the datR do not appear to be sufficiently complete , and it would be better to postpone the discussion of this point .
On th of Solution .
20 .
The theory of .-pressure and osmotic pressure outlined in this aper appears to afford the most direct method hitherto posed of calculating the composition of definite molecular compounds , to hydrates , in solutions .
The hypothesis apparently the extension , in a slightly modified form , to strong solutions of eneral principles have hitherto been applicable only to dilute solutions .
The existence of hydrates in solution has often been maintained , and has been supported by much indirect experiinental evidence , but the theory has usually been stated in a manner which was open to serious objection .
The essential point of a hydrate theory ( as opposed to a diffusion- , or or gas-pressure- , or atio theory ) is the formation of definite hydrates according to the fundamental law of chemical .
The difficulty of such a theory has been to determine ] value of the hydration factor , and to show that it was constant within certain limits , and to a simple integer .
I have endeavoured to indicate how this may be determined , and I think I fairly claim to have made out a good case for a modihed form of the hydrate theory .
498 Prof H. L. Callendar .
On -pressure and [ Mar. 10 , The problem has recently been attacked by H. C. Jones and his assistants at Johns Hopkins University , from a study of the depression of the freezingpoints of strong solutions .
They have accumulated a great deal of material , but I cannot agree with their interpretation of the results .
Their experimental data appear to agree fairly in most cases with the vapourpressure theory here given , but there are a few notable exceptions .
The erved depressions of the glycerol , iven by Jones and Getman*are from three to four times as large as those given by Abegg , and cannot be fitted by any value of .
The data given by Jones and for differ considerably from those of Roozeboom , S and do not agree at all well with the curve in fig. The authors have worked out their results on the assumption of a constant value for the theoretical molecular lowering of the freezing-point , and have obtained widely varying values of the degree of hydration , , from 140 nJolecules to 12 in the case of glycerine , and 30 to 13 for .
Their final conclusions , which are diametrically opposed to the theory ) iven in the present paper , are best stated in their own words : Qvotation from Jones Bassett.$ and drate Theory.\mdash ; The theory of hydrates in aqueous solutions that we to have established by the work , of which this is only a chapter , is to be sharply distinguished from the old hydrate theory of Mendeleeff , which , having long since been shown to be untenable , has been abandoned .
According to the older theory , when a substance , like calcium chloride , is dissolved in , there are formed certain definite chemical compounds , with perfectly definite amounts of water .
" " According to the theory established by this work , the compounds formed are , at best , very unstable and vary in combination all the way from 1 molecule of water to a very great number .
The composition of the hydrate formed by any given substance is purely a function of the concentration of the solution , or is determined , as we say , by the effect of mass action .
Thus the composition of the hydrates formed by calcium chloride may vary all the way from a few molecules of water up to at least 30 molecules , and may have all intermediate compositions , depending solely upon the concentration , temperature being , of course , understood to be constant .
' ' It is thus obvious that the older and the newer hydrate theories are fundamentally different in character lecent evidence for the existence of hydrates in solution , the Amel .
Chem. Journ vol. 32 , p. .320 , 1904 . .
Phys. Chem vol. 15 , p. 217 , 1894 .
1 'Amer .
Chem. Journ , ' vol. 33 , p. 646 , 1905 .
S 'Zeit .
Phys. ChenL , ' vol. 4 , p. 42 , 1889 .
Footnote added April 12 , 1908.\mdash ; One of my students , Mr. W. F. , working under Mr. S. W. J. 's direction , has verified the F. P. depressions in the case of glycerine and calcium chloride .
His results agree with those of Abegg and Roozeboom respectively .
'Amer . .
Journ , p. 684 , 1905 .
1908 .
] Osmotic Pressure of Strong Solutions .
experiments of Caldwell on the hydrolysis of may be cited .
* He attributes the accelerating influence of concentration to the hydration of the molecules , the degree of hydration cannot be calculated , because the rate of change may be affected by so many other factors .
Similarly the rees of hydration of various salts are estimated by observing the dilution required to reduce the constant to its normal value .
The values thus obtained appear somewhat ) , because the possible effects of ionisation are expressly nored .
Whether ions are charged atoms , or whether they are merely unstable hydrates , it seems impossible to ignore their existence .
Taking account of the ionisation factor , which is nearly 2 iu a solution -molecule per litre , the water abstracted by the calcium chloride should be 18 gramme-molecules , according to the freezin -point depression , a result which does not diHer reatly f Caldwell 's estimate of 22 molecnles .
The residual difference in this and other cases may well be due to some influence of the ions as such , which could not be estimated satisfactorily unless allowance made for the concentrating influence of hydrntion .
added , 1908.\mdash ; Similar results for the of hydration have been deduced by J. C. Philip from measurements of the solubility of oxygen and hydrogen in various solutions .
The degree of hydration found for cane-sugar from Steiner 's observations on the solubility of from 5 to molecules vater to each molecule of sugar , which agrees as nearly as could be expected with the vapour-pressure theory .
For salts , not allowing for ionisation , the values obtained for are higher and more variable than those given by the -pressure theory , , KC17 to 11 , to 12 , average 21 , etc. These values may indicate a specific effect of the solute , apart from mere hydration .
Oxygen seems to give different results from , e.g. , average from from oxygen .
The method does not appear to succeed so well with more soluble gases or other indifferent substances .
It is less simple and direct than the vapour-pressure method , and the effect observed is likely to be more complex .
A large number of data exist for the relative lowering derived from direct measurements of the vapour-pressure , especially in the case of salt solutions .
Very few of these available for deducing the degree of hydration , either Decause the ionisation data are deficient , or because the direct measurements of small vapour-pressures are necessarily somewhat 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 78 , p. 272 .
'Faraday Soc. Trans vol. 3 , p. 140 , 1907 .
500 essure and Osmotic Pressure of Strong Solutions .
inexact .
But , so far as they , they appear to be in fair agreement with the vapour-pressure theory .
] Summary of Condusions .
21 .
The foundation of the vapour-pressure theory of solutions here laid down is the assumption of a simple relation between the vapour-pressure and the molecular constitution of the solution .
That there should be a simple relation of this kind appears extremely probable when we consider that the concentration of the vapour phase in the solutions here examined is very small , and that such relations generally take a very ] form at extreme dilution .
That such a relation should serve as a key to many of the phenomena occurring in solutions is not surprising in view of the fact that equality of vapour-pressure is one of the most general conditions of equilibrium in physical chemistry .
The relation of this assumption to the gas-pressure theory , or the hydrate theory , or the capillary-pressure theory , as already indicated , is that it involves them all , since they may be regarded as merely different aspects of the same phenomena .
An equivalent assumption may be formulated , at least approximately , in terms of partial pressure , or capillary pressure , or chemical attraction , but it would merely be putting the same thing in different words .
The vapour-pressure method appears to be the most direct line of attacking the problem .
If , for instance , we regard the changes of capillary pressure in relation to vapour-pressure as defined by the relation , we should arrive at nearly the same result by similar approximations .
But method does not appear to be so convenient , because it involves the volume , which is generally unknown and variable in an uncertain manner , whereas the volume of the vapour at low pressures may be regarded as conforming very closely with the laws of gases .
is no doubt that further experimental work may be required to 'establish the vapour-pressure theory generally , since accurate data for strollg solutions are comparatively scarce .
The interpretation of the ionisation factor , and its relation to the heat of dilution , requires further elucidation .
Analysis of nearly all the data at present available , in addition to the examples above cited , fails to show any serious disagreement with the vapour-pressure theory .
The theory cannot pretend to be exact for all ranges of temperature and concentration , but it seems likely to serve , at least as a second approximation , for co-ordinating results which have hitherto appealed discordant .

