X. " On the Temperature of the Flowers and Leaves of Plants .
" By E. J. LOWE , Esq. , F.R.A.S. , F.L.S. &amp;c. Comimunicated by THOMAS BELL , Esq. , P.L.S. , V.P.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 16 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) The present observations were made in order to ascert ; ain whether different plants and flowers influence the temperature of the air immediately over them .
The author was induced to undertake the iniquiry from what he had noticed whilst making observations on the fall-cloud , or white mist of the valley , as it is usually called .
In the autumn of 1858 it was repeatedly noticed that vapour formed first over those fields from which hay had been gathered in the sumer , and which were covered with a good crop of qftei-nath .
The mnists them gradually formed over the shorter grass of the pasture fields , yet , unless when the fog was very thick , it never formed over stubble fields ( i. e. where corn had grown ) .
It was further observed , that at times when undrained or imperfectly-drained ploughed fields had this mist , those that were better drained were free from vapour ; moreover , the furrows or low places of a field were the spots or which fogs first formed .
Hedges , on the contrary , seem to have a repulsive influence on fogs ; the author has seeln a field in which the mist rose higher than the hedges , but did not flow over or even touch them , but at length poured out through the gateway in a long dense colunmn .
These peculiarities seemed to be owing either to the differenit temperatures of different trees and vegetables , or of the soils on which they grew , or perhaps to both .
To determinie this , the author has tested as carefully as possible the temperature of various flowers in comparison with that of grass , as well as that of different soils ; imitating artificially the conditions of drained and undrained fields , so that the observationis might be made close together , and therefore better comparable with each other .
In this latter series , which is not yet completed , and does not form part of the present paper , daily records are made of the greatest heat and cold on the surface of soils , sand , gravel , clay , &amp;c. , as well as above the ground , and from 2 to 8 inches below the surface .
The thermometers employed were constructed by Messrs. Negretti and Zambra ; they are self-registering , and entirely of glass ; the degrees being engraved on the tube , and rendered more distinctly visible by means of enamel at the back .
Some of the instruments are of very small size , in order that they may be placed within the tubes of certain flowers .
All the observations were carried on by myself at the Beeston Observatory .
At first the thermometers were placed over the growing plant , and afterwards the flowers and leaves were arranged in bottles of water , and either exposed to full sunshine , or placed in the shade , the bottles being sunk in the ground to the level of the grass , filled with a bunch of flowers , and the thermometers placed imnmediately over them .
With regard to the readings on the grass and on the common Daisy ( Bellis perennis ) , it should be mentioned that a portionl of the grass was selected where a large group of daisies were fully in bloom , arid within a foot of this another space where every daisy was carefully cut off from a circle of 12 inches , in the centre of which a second thermometer was placed on the grass , so that these records are very conclusive as regards the growing plant .
Bearing upon this subject , it is proper to state , from a series of experiments with thermometers placed in full sunshine on the grass , and at 4 feet above the grass , that in winter the temperature on the grass is always lower than at 4 feet , whilst in summer the reverse takes place , the thermometers reading almost alike for a short time in spring and autumn .
To this circumstance may be attributed the less striking results in hot weather , especially where the difference between the grass and a flower is only from 10 to 2 ?
, Tables stating the details of the observations , which extended from February 26 to September 19 , 1859 , and from the 22nd to the 27th of March , 1860 , are giveni in the paper .
The author subjoins the following as the principal results : Great differences occur from time to time in the temperature of plants , and much depends upon the meteorology of the day , the differences being usually greater with a cloudless sky than with one which is loaded with cloud .
The time of day seems also to operate on some plants to a great degree ; as an instance , the Erica herbacea , which between 1 and 2 P.M. had shown a warmth of above 50 over that of the grass , by 3 o'clock was only 10 warmer , and by 4 o'clock was colder than the grass .
In the majority of instances grass is colder than flowers , as shown by the following examples : I. Eleven observations on Daphne cneorum in comparison with grass .
The mean gives Daphne eneorum 10.2 warmer than grass .
The temperatures range between 410 and 730.3 , In nine cases the temperature was warmest over Daphne eneorurm , the greatest difference being 30.7e 2 .
Thirty-nine observations on ( entiana acaulis in comparison with grassI The meani gives Gentiana acautlis 20 warmer thian grass .
The temperatures range between 410 ' and 8908 .
In tbirty4four cases the temperature was warmest over Gentiana acaulis , the greatest difference being 70-9 .
3 .
Eight observations on Iberis sempervirens in comparison with grass .
The mean gives Iberis sempervirens 20.3 warmer than grass .
The temperatures range between 410 and 630.2 .
In severL cases the temperature was warmest over Iberis sempervirens , the greatest difference being 30.1 .
4 .
Ten observations on Alyssum tortuosum in comparison with grass .
The mean gives Alyssum tortuosurm 2`3 warmer than grass .
The temperatures range between 410 and 88 ? ? ?
?9 ; in every case being warmer thai grass , the greatest difference being 3 ?
7 .
5 .
Eleven observations of a white Daisy in comparison with grass .
The meanl gives the Daisy 0 ? ?
2 hotteir than grass ; the range of temperature from 40 ?
03 to 80 ? ?
5 .
Greatest difference 4 ?
.4 .
6 .
Seven observations of Veronica alpina in comparison with grass .
The meani gives Veronica alpina 1 ?
9 warmer than grass ; the temperature ranging from 420 8 to 650-5 .
In no instance was it lower than grass .
Greatest difference 5 ?
0 .
7 .
Seven observations of Alyssum tortuosum in comparison with Reseda ftutescens .
The mean gives Alys8ur tortuosum 2 ?
` 4 hotter than Reseda frutescens .
8 .
Thirty-three observations of Tulicpa Gesneriana in comparisoi with grass .
The mean gives Tuli.pa Gesneriana 10.9 hotter than grass ; the ternperature ranging between 31`4 and 96 ? ?
5 .
In twenty-five instances it was warmer than grass .
Greatest difference 120.8 .
9 .
Twenty-eight observations of Eschscholtzia crocea in comparisoll with grass .
The mean gives the Eschscholtzia 30.6 warmer than grass ; the temperature rarnging between 370 and 1020.3 .
In twenty-four instances it was warmner than the grass .
Greatest difference with black bull ) 15 ?
7 .
1 0 .
Tein observationis of Liliumt concolor in comparison with grass , The meati gives LIiliu ?
m concolor 2`9 Jvarmer thai grass ; the temperature ranging between 640 and 850 7 .
In every instance it was warmer , the greatest difference being 60.6 , 11 .
Eleven observations of Valeriana tuberosa in comparison with grass .
The mean gives the Valerian 00.5 warmer than grass ; the temperature ranging between 520 6 and 730 .
In seven instances it was warmer than the grass , the greatest differenice being 30 ?
3 .
[ In the last font ' examples the temperature at night , and the maximulm with black bulb are included , so that the former will tend to lower the result and the latter to raise it .
]

