564 Influence of Stature on Weight of Encephalon .
[ June 1 7 , Evidence can be given in support of these propositions from the examination of foetal brains and the brains of idiots , the former of which exhibit a remarkable , early , and special tendency to deviations in symmetry in the neighbourhood of the left fissure of Rolando .
I regard this as merely a preliminary notice of a future communication .
XVII .
\lt ; c On the Influence of Stature on the Weight of the Encephalon and its parts in Man .
" By John Marshall , E.R.S. , F.R.C.S.E. , Professor of Surgery , University College , London , \amp ; c. Received June 17 , 1875 .
Being anxious , for a certain special purpose , to determine the influence of stature on the weight of the encephalon and its parts in Man , I have , with the consent and ready assistance of Dr. Robert Boyd , further analyzed the MS .
records of the numerous data accumulated by him , from which he framed his tables published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1861 .
1 .
I find , first , that , as might be expected , an increase of stature is accompanied by an increase in the absolute weight of the encephalon or entire brain in both sexes .
Taking both sexes together , the total increase , with a mean range of 11 inches between the highest and lowest group-of individuals examined , is about 6| oz. av .
; in the male series , with a mean range of 7 inches , it is 2f oz. ; in the female series , with a mean range of 6 inches , it is 1\#163 ; oz. Of this increase in absolute weight , the cerebrum , in both sexes , necessarily takes a larger share than the cerebellum ; but having regard to the relative weights of those two organs , viz. as about 8 to 1 , their relative increase is as about 11 to 1 ; so that the cerebrum increases absolutely more than the cerebellum .
The pons with the medulla follows the rate of increase of the cerebellum .
2 .
But , secondly , I find that , notwithstanding this absolute increase in the weight of the encephalon and its parts in obedience to an increase of the stature , the increase itself is not pari passu with the stature ; on the contrary , there is a gradual and progressive relative diminution in the proportion of encephalic substance to the stature as this latter itself increases .
This is equally true if we take the range of stature in both sexes together or in either sex separately .
Hence shorter persons of either sex have , proportionately to their height , a larger amount of brain than , taller ones .
Nevertheless the proportion is larger in the male than in the female , not only generally , but even at corresponding heights\#151 ; as , for example , in short men as compared with tall women .
This is interesting , as evidence that the well-known 1875 .
] Production of Exact Rectilinear Motion by LinTcwork .
565 sexual difference in the weight of the male brain overrides the influence of stature , or subsists in spite of his greater stature , which has a tendency to diminish his proportionate amount of brain .
Further comparisons show that the stature ratio , as it may be called , diminishes with the height less markedly and less constantly in the case of the cerebrum than in the case of the cerebellum , which latter organ , therefore , obeys the influence of stature more exactly and implicitly , so far as regards its relative proportion to the body .
3 .
It becomes evident , and may be shown , that all estimates of other influences regulating the brain-weights in Man , whether these be sex , age , occupation , education , or disease , are liable to error unless the influence of stature be first eliminated .
Instances of this statement are easy to find .
i ; 4 .
It may in this mode be demonstrated what is the true influence of sex , age , disease , and other modifying causes .
5 .
Lastly , in this way alone can we arrive , as it seems to me , at a correct appreciation of that residual cause of peculiarity or deviation in the weight of the encephalon and its parts , especially of the cerebrum , which may be called its proper weight=variation , as an independent or quasi-independent organ .
6 .
This residual variation , it may be thus shown , is far larger than any other , a fact obviously of the highest interest and importance .
In support of these propositions , and others of greater detail , I propose to make a lengthened communication hereafter .
XVIII .
" On a General Method of producing exact Rectilinear Motion by Linkwork .
" By A. B. Kempe , B.A. , of the Inner Temple , late Scholar of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. J. Sylvester , F.R.S. Received June 4,1875 .
Since the invention by James Watt , in 1784 , of the 3-bar linkwork known as " Watt 's Parallel Motion , " which gives an approximate rectilinear motion , many attempts have been made to obtain a more perfect solution of the problem how to obtain accurate rectilinear motion by means of linkwork .
Professor Tchebicheff succeeded in obtaining a 3-bar link-- work giving a much closer approximation to a true result ; but in his case , as in that of others , the solution is only approximate , and it may be , in fact , shown that with 3 bars an accurate result cannot be obtained .
It was not until 1864 that the problem was solved ; in that year M. Peau-jj cellier made his memorable discovery of an accurate 7-bar solution ; and I in 1874 , when the subject was brought prominently forward in England | by Professor Sylvester , Mr. Hart , in a paper read before the British Asso- .
ciation , gave a solution by means of 5 bars .
Both these linkworks , as is now well known , depended upon the inversion of a circle with respect to a point on its circumference .

