i881 .
] J. Milne and T. Gray .
On Seismic Experiments .
139 Rupture along the lines of greatest tension in shearing may be well illustrated by pasting a piece of paper over two flat boards , with straight parallel edges , about i " apart ; if now , preserving this distance , the boards are forced to move past one another m the direction of their edges , folds appear in the paper parallel to the lines of greatest tension , and if the sliding be continued the paper tears at right angles to the direction of the folds ( fig. 15 ) .
VII .
On Seismic Experiments .
' By John Milne , F.G.S. , and * Thomas Gray , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. Communicated by A. CL Ramsay , LL. D. , Director-General of the Geological Survey and of the Museum of Economic Geology .
Received November 5 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is an account of a series of experiments made at the Akabane Engineering Works , Tokio , for the purpose of investigating some points connected with earthquake motion .
The mode of experiment consisted in creating a disturbance at a point on the earth s surface by allowing a heavy block of iron ( 1,710 lbs. ) to fall from a height ( 35 feet ) , and observing the resulting motion produced in the earth at points variously situated relatively to the centre of disturbance .
The centre of disturbance was situated near to one corner of a pond about 10 feet deep , and close to the foot of a small steep hill , the remaining ground being very nearly level , and composed of hardened mud , which extended to a depth of from 20 to 30 feet .
The configuration of the ground here briefly described is clearly shown by means of a map accompanying the complete paper .
In the earlier expei i-ments a number of similar vessels of mercury were placed at the different points , and the vibrations produced on the surface taken as a rough indication of the intensity of the disturbance1 at the point .
This method of observation showed with considerable definiteness where the motion became insensible .
These preliminary experiments showed that the disturbance could be distinctly propagated to a distance of 650 feet ( which was the greatest distance available ) ; that the pond cut off the disturbance from points beyond its distant side if these points were sufficiently removed from the corner , but that the hill did not cnt off the vibrations .
In subsequent experiments more definite observations were made by using seismographic apparatus , and by this means the following conclusions were reached .
A disturbance emanating from a centre as above described , produced at least two distinct sets of vibrations .
One of these sets has 140 Dr. G. Gore .
On the [ Dec. 8 , the direction of motion in the line joining the centre of disturbance and the point of observation , while the other set has the direction of motion at right angles to that line .
The first of these is denominated the direct wave , and the second the transverse wave .
The direct wave has a greater amplitude and a slightly shorter period of motion at the source , but seems to die out more rapidly than the transverse wave .
The amplitude of the direct vibrations seems never to have exceeded 05 millim. at 50 feet , and OT millim. at 250 feet from the centre .
The amplitude of vibration was very nearly inverselv as the distance from the source .
The direct wave was completely cut off by the pond and nearly , if not completely , by the hill , but the transverse wave extended along the distant side of the pond to a considerable distance , and was little affected by the hill .
When the motion of a point on the earth 's surface was registered by means of a seismograph , it was found to be such as would result from the composition of two harmonic motions of different period , and in different directions .
One of the most important points attended to in these experiments was the determination of the velocity of propagation for the different waves .
The method finally adopted for this purpose was to mark by means of a telegraphic arrangement , simultaneously , and at definite intervals , on two smoked glass plates , placed \#174 ; *t different distances along the same line from the source , the same instant of time .
These plates were moved by clockwork , and were used for the reception of the seismograph record .
It is evident that the time-marks on the plate give the means of comparing the times of arrival of the direct , or the transverse wave , according to circumstances at the two stations , and hence , knowing the time-interval between the marks on the plates , the velocity of propagation could readily be calculated .
As the result of these observations the surprisingly low velocity of 438 feet per second for the direct , and 35 feet per second for the transverse wave , was obtained .
The soft nature of the material through which the disturbance was propagated is given as the probable reason for this result .
The results of similar experiments by Mr. Robert Mallet , at the Hellgate explosions , in New York Harbour , are referred to .
At the conclusion of the paper an example of the records obtained in actual earthquakes is given and briefly described .
VIII .
' ' On the Electrolytic Diffusion of Liquids .
" By G. Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 8 , 1881 .
In a paper on the " Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids " ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 32 , 1881 ) , I described a number

