352 Small Free Vibrations of a Thin Elastic Shell [ Feb. 9 February 9 , 1888 .
Dr. E. FRANKLAKD , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " The Small Free Vibrations and Deformation of a Thin Elastic Shell .
" By A. E. H. Love , B.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Received January 19 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the method employed by Kirchhoff and Clebsch for the treatment of a thin plane plate is applied to the case of a thin shell , or plate of finite curvature .
The form of the potential-energy-function for the strain in an element of the shell is the same as that obtained by Kirchhoff for a plate , the quantities depending on the curvature of the surface being replaced by the difference of their values in the strained and unstrained states .
It is proved that only for an inextensible spherical surface is this function the same function of the changes of principal curvature as for a plane plate .
The general equations of equilibrium and small motion under the action of any system of forces are formed .
It is shown that in general the shell cannot vibrate in such a manner that no line on the middle-surface is altered in length , because this condition makes it impossible to satisfy the boundary conditions which hold at a free edge .
It then appears that approximate equations of motion may be taken , in which the terms of the potential energy depending on the bending may be neglected , and only those depending on the stretching need be retained .
It is shown that surfaces of uniform curvature with no bounding edges are the only ones which admit of purely normal vibiations , and that vibrations in which the displacement is purely tangential are possible on all shells whose middle-surfaces are surfaces of revolution bounded by small circles .
The cases of the spherical and cylindrical shell receive special discussion .
The equations of motion can always be solved , but solution s of the frequency equations could only be obtained in case the displacement was symmetrical about the axis .
The application of the general equations to problems of equilibrium is illustrated in the case of spherical shells , for which 1888.1 Teeth in the young Ornithorhynchus paradoxus .
353 the equations can be solved ; some special examples are given .
For the sake of greater intelligibility , I have included an historical account of previous theories of plane plates and shells , a description of the method of the present paper , and a summary recapitulating the chief physical results .
XI .
" True Teeth in the young Ornithorhynchus By Edward B. Poulton , M.A. , F.L.S. , of Jesus and Keble Colleges , Oxford .
Communicated by W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received January 26,1888 .
For the purpose of continuing some recent work upon various epidermic structures in Ornithorhynchus , Dr. Parker very kindly placed his most valuable material at my disposal .
Among other things was a series of consecutive vertical transverse sections through the head of a young individual , about 8*3 decimetres long , when in the curled-up attitude in which it had been received , and which was fixed by the spirit .
In this specimen only the larger hairs had appeared above the surface of the skin .
The sections had been prepared for Dr. Parker by his son , Professor W. Newton Parker , of Cardiff , and although intended for the investigation of morphological points in connexion with the development and structure of the skull , many of them were in every way adapted for minute histological investigation .
Examining these sections I found that large and apparently typical mammalian teeth were developing in the subepithelial tissues on each side of the roof of the mouth .
I at once communicated with Dr. Parker , telling him of the discovery , and enquiring whether he had any objection to the publication of the fact .
Dr. Parker replied , and urged me to at once communicate the discovery to the Royal Society , at the same time offering me material in the most free and generous manner for the further investigation of the dental structures in Ornithorhynchus and in Echidna ( if present in the latter ) .
When it is remembered that Dr. Parker had put the sections aside for a time in consequence of the press of other work , intending soon to make use of them for the investigation of the skull , it will be seen at once that my association with this discovery is purely accidental , and that I have been treated in an extremely generous spirit .
As the lower jaw was not included in the sections , I cannot- yet state that teeth are present in it , but there is little doubt that this is the case.* Teeth were present in the upper jaw , in thirty sections through the head , and of these all , except the nine anterior sections , included some part of the eye .
The teeth probably represent some * I have since found that teeth are present in the lower jaw.\#151 ; Feb. 6 , 1888 .

