565 Prof. A. Cayley on the Quartic .
following is a remarkable theorem on this part of the subject .
The positive pedal of a bicircular quartic is the inverse of its negative pedal if the centre of one of its circles of inversion be taken as origin .
Chapter VII .
is the last .
It contains the theory of reciprocating curves from their tangential and intrinsic equation .
Thus , if =/ ( \lt ; /\gt ; ) be the tangential equation , its reciprocal is in polar equations Again , if s=f(\lt ; p ) be the intrinsic equation of a curve , the polar equation of its reciprocal is This chapter contains also the theory of parallel curves .
The following is a remarkable property of these curves :\#151 ; Every focus of any order of the original curve is a focus of the next highest order of the parallel curve .
The last problem discussed in the paper is the rectification of bicir-cular quartics by elliptic integrals , and the method can be extended to sphero-quartics .
This problem , so far as the author is aware , is now solved for the first time .
The paper is enriched by the addition of a very important annex by Professor Cayley .
IV .
" Addition on the Bicircular Quartic.'^ By A. Cayley , .
LL. D. , P.R.S. , Sadlerian Professor of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge .
Received January 24 , 1877 .
Prof. Casey communicated to me the MS .
of the foregoing memoir , and he has permitted me to make to it the present addition , containing further developments on the theory of the bicircular quartic .
Starting from his theory of the fourfold generation of the curve , 1 lof .
Casey shows that there exist series of inscribed quadrilaterals , ABCD , whereof the sides AB , BC , CD , DA .
pass through the centres of the four circles of inversion respectively ; or ( as it is convenient to express it ) the pairs of points ( A , B ) , ( B , C ) , ( C , D ) , ( D , A ) belong to the four modes of generation respectively , and may be regarded as depending upon certain parameters ( his 6 , O ' , 0 " , O ' , or say ) uq , w respectively , any three of these being in fact functions of the fourth .
Considering a gi\ en quadrilateral ABCD , and giving to it an infinitesimal variation , we have four infinitesimal arcs , AA ' , BIT , CC ' , DD ; these are in fact differential expressions , A A ' and BB ' of the form Mp/ w , , BB and ( C of the form M .jho2 , CC ' and DD ' of the form M , c ?
w"DD ' and A A ' of the form ; 9 / ( \lt ; /\gt ; ) sin ( Abstract .
) 2 s 2 Mr. J. A. Broun the Variation [ Feb. 22 , or , what is the same thing , AA ' is expressible in the two forms Mc ?
w and ~M .
du)v BB ' in the two forms M1c ?
w| and M \amp ; c. , the identity of the two expressions for the same arc , of course , depending on the relation between the two parameters .
But any such monomial expression Mc ?
w of an arc A A ' would be of a complicated form , not obviously reducible to elliptic functions .
Casey does not obtain them at all ; but he finds geometrically monomial expressions for the differences and sum BB ' \#151 ; AA ' , CC ' \#151 ; BB ' , DD ' + CO ' , DD'\#151 ; AA ' ( they cannot be all of them differences ) , and thence a quadrinomial expression AA'=N1cZw1+N2c ?
w2+N3c ?
w3+N"cZw ( his ds'= pels+p'dd'+p"eld"and that without any explicit consideration of the relations which connect the parameters .
I propose to complete the analytical theory by establishing the monomial equations AA'=Mf ?
w=M1clw1 , \amp ; c. , and the relations between the parameters u\gt ; , w w2 , w.s , which belong to an inscribed quadrilateral ABCD , so as to show what the process really is by which we pass from the monomial form to a quadrinomial form -f- +N2dv2 + N3doi:i , \#151 ; dS , wherein each term is separately expressible as the differential of an elliptic integral , and to further develop the theory of the transformation to elliptic integrals .
Y. " On the Influence of Height in the Atmosphere on the Diurnal Variation of the Earth 's Magnetic Force .
" By J. A. Broun , F.lt .
S. Received January 25 , 1877 .
In a paper in the Society 's Transactions on the earth 's magnetic intensity at Bombay , Mr. 0 .
Chambers has examined the question of the influence of height on the diurnal inequality of the horizontal force* .
Two instruments were observed simultaneously at 0h 22m and 2h 29m p.m. : one , a bifilar magnetometer , was 6 feet above the ground ; the other , a unifilar absolute-intensity instrument , was 38 feet above the ground .
Mr. Chambers has found that , in the interval between the two times specified , the change of horizontal force given by the bifilar magnetometer was rather more than one third ( 0*37 ) of the mean diurnal range , and that the absolute- intensity instrument showed a change about one fifth less than the bifilar .
This difference he does not think instrumental ; and he considers that , if true , " it suggests the attribution of a very considerable magnetic influence to the state of the medium intervening between the upper and lower places of observation , " \amp ; c. The mean changes of horizontal force between 0h 22m and 2h 29m p.m. by the two instruments were as follow:\#151 ; * " The Absolute Direction and Intensity of the Earth 's Magnetic Force at Bombay , \amp ; c. " By Chai-les Chambers , F.R.S. , Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory .
Phil. Trans. 1876 , p. 84 .

