174 Mr. W. E. Wilson .
Effect of Pressure on the [ May 30 , that practically all compound mechanisms contain a continuous mechanism A , of not more than four links , from which definiteness of relative motion of all the other links is derived .
Any two links of A in their exact length , or longer or shorter , may be adapted to form with two new links a second mechanism B , and any two of A or B , or one of A and one of B , may he adapted to form with two still further added links a third mechanism C , and so on .
In this way a definiteness of relative motion of many links in a compound mechanism is derived .
The notation lends itself to a clear exhibition of the manner in which two or more simple mechanisms are associated together , and the compound mechanism built up .
III .
" On the Effect of Pressure of the Surrounding Gas on the Temperature of the Crater of an Electric Arc Light .
Preliminary Notes of Observations made at Daramona , Street\#169 ; , co .
Westmeath .
" By W. E. Wilson .
Communicated by Professor Fitzgerald , F.R.S. Received April 25 , 1895 .
Of late years it has often been assumed that the temperature of the crater forming the positive pole of the electric arc is that of the boiling of carbon .
The most modern determinations give this point as about 3300'\#151 ; 3500 ' C. Solar physicists have thought that the photosphere of the sun consists of a layer of clouds formed of particles of solid carbon .
As the temperature of these clouds is certainly not below 8000 ' C. , it seems very difficult to explain how carbon can be boiling in the arc at 3500 ' and yet remain in the solid form in the sun at 8000 ' .
Pressure in the solar atmosphere seemed to be the most likely cause of this , and yet , from other physical reasons , this seemed not probable .
In order to investigate whether increased pressure in the gas surrounding an electric arc would raise the temperature of the crater , I had an apparatus made by the Cambridge Instrument Company .
It consists of a strong cast-iron box , which was tested by hydraulic pressure to 2000 lbs. per square inch .
In the following plan , A is the box , B and C are the two carbon poles enclosed in steel tubes .
The negative carbon was kept in position against a copper ring by a spiral spring behind it .
The positive carbon was hand fed by a friction roller , which was moved by a handle F outside the box .
A steel tube H was screwed into the box at such an angle that , by looking down it , we could see well into the crater of the positive pole.-The end of this tube is closed by a glass lens , which formed an image of the crater at a distance of 80 cm .
1895 .
] Temperature of the Crater of an Electric Arc Light .
175 A Boys 's radio-micrometer , with its aperture reduced to about 2 mm. diameter , was so placed on the pier in the laboratory that the image of the crater fell on its small aperture .
The instrument thus gave deflections proportional to the radiation coming from the crater .
The current was supplied from a battery of accumulators , giving an E.M.F. of 110 volts .
Suitable resistances of platinoid wire were put in the circuit , so that the current could be varied from 40 to 10 amperes .
An ammeter was also in circuit , and the poles of the arc were connected to a voltmeter .
The gas used was nitrogen , and the pressure was got by connecting the box by a copper pipe with the valve of a 20-foot steel cylinder filled with the gas at a pressure of 120 atmospheres .
A -joint on the copper pipe was connected with a Bourdon pressure-gauge , which showed the pressure in the box at any moment .
The method of experimenting was first to start the arc with the pressure in the box at that of the atmosphere .
The image of the brightest part of the crater was thrown on the aperture of the radiomicrometer , and a series of observations taken of the deflections of the instrument .
The pressure was then gradually increased and the maximum deflections observed .
As the pressure rises the resistance of the arc increases , and , in order to keep the same current flowing , the resistance in the circuit was reduced .
It soon became evident that , even with moderate pressures of about 5 atmospheres , the temperature of the crater had fallen .
This was not only shown by the reduction in the deflections of the radio-micrometer , but also by the fall in brilliancy of the image of the crater to the eye .
The pressure was then increased to about 20 atmospheres , and the brilliancy of the crater fell to a dull red colour .
These experiments were repeated several times and always with the same results .
I then tried the effect of reducing the pressure in the box by means of an air-pump , but as some of the glands in the box were only intended for an internal pressure , I found it impossible to get a good vacuum ; yet by keeping the pump at work , and thus getting a VOL. LVII1 .
O 176 lemperature of the Crater of an Arc Light.[May 30 , moderate vacuum , I found the radiation of the crater to be much greater than at the atmospheric pressure .
The temperature of the crater seemed very sensitive to any sudden diminution of pressure in the gas .
If the blow-off valve was suddenly opened , the brilliancy of the crater fell so much that it became nearly invisible .
When the box was being exhausted by the air-pump , ' although the temperature of the crater was rising as the vacuum improved , yet at each stroke of the pump the eye could see a distinct falling off of brilliancy in the image .
It was thought that the diminution of brilliancy might be due to smoke inside the box , but on looking through the window everything was seen sharply defined , also the gas as it issued from the blow-off was perfectly clear .
The arc was also kept burning for some time in the box at the atmospheric pressure , but the image remained quite clear , and the inside of the box seemed quite free of smoke .
From these experiments it would seem as if the temperature of the crater , like that of a filament in an incandescent lamp , depends on how much it is cooled by the surrounding atmosphere , and not on its being the tempei*ature at which the vapour of carbon has the same pressure as the surrounding atmosphere .
That carbon volatilises in some form at comparatively low temperatures seems likely , from the way in which the carbon of incandescent lamp filaments is transferred to the glass .
The pressure of the vapour of carbon in the arc may consequently be very small , and further it would seem that the supposition of high pressures in the solar photosphere , which has been referred to in the beginning of this paper , is not borne out by these experiments , and that carbon may exist there in the solid form at very high temperatures although the pressures are comparatively low .
The experiments on high pressures were conducted on several occasions .
On the last occasion , in addition to repeated former experiments , the experiments on reduced pressures were performed , and I then had the great advantage of the presence , advice , and assistance of my friends Professor Minchin and Professor G. F. Fitzgerald .
The later series of experiments entirely confirmed my former ones .

