III .
" Further Remarks on the Organo-metallic Radicals Mercuric , Stannic , and Plumbic Ethyl."-No .
III .
By GEORGE BOWDLERt BUCKTON , Esq. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , F.C.S. Received March 3 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) On resuming my inquiries into the nature of these organo-metals , I have met with some interesting reactions , which I here wish briefly to notice .
The preparation of mercuric , stannic , and plumbic ethyls , through the action of zinc ethyl on various organic and inorganic salts , has been already detailed in my sketch published in the I Proceedings of the Royal Society* ; ' but at that time , I was not able to fix , with certainity , the constitution of the compounds which were produced by acids on the different radicals .
An appeal to analysis now enables me to state the following Mercuric ethyl .
The reactions of this liquid are well-marked .
Towards sulphuric and hydrochloric acids it follows the deportment of its homologue mercuric methyl .
When assisted by gentle heat , one equivalent of ethyl is disengaged , which unites with the hydrogen of the acid , and forms hydride of ethyl , whilst the acid takes its place , and gives rise to the corresponding salt of mercurous ethyl .
The radical bursts into flame when poured into chlorine gas , and is almost entirely destroyed ; but when it is slowly mixed under water with iodine or bromine , the disengagement of ethyl gas is scarcely perceived , and iodide or bromide of etbyl may be recovered by distillation .
4 ( 1g ( C4 H5)+ 2H S042 ( HIg2 C4 115 ) 8208 2 ( C4 H5 H ) Mercuric ethyl .
Sulphate of Hydride of ethyl .
mercurous ethyl .
2(HgC4115)+2Br=Hg2 C4H11[Br+C4 1 , Br .
&gt; r_J v K._ K.._U Mercuric ethyl .
Bromide of Bromide of ethyl .
mercurous ethyl .
From considerations connected with the vapour density of mercuric ethyl and mercuric methyl , as given by experiment , there seem to be reasons for believing that the formulce of all the organo-metals of this group should , in correctness , be doubled .
I have not , however , yet been able to satisfy these views by direct experiment .
Zincethyl acts readily on salts of mercurous methyl ; and in all probability gives a body compounded of ethyl and methyl with a double equivalent of mercury Hg c4 H53 The substance , however , if proYHg02 H~ 3 duced , is obviously broken by distillation into the two radicals mercuric ethyl and mercuric methyl .
Experiment may perhaps prove more successful if salts of stannic methyl be similarly treated .
The electro-negative character of the group Cn2 Hn2+1 in the class of organo-metals to which zincethyl belongs , may now perhaps be considered as established .
Some interest , nevertheless , attaches to the question whether sodium is capable of displacing ethyl from mercuric ethyl .
An answer to this question would give us some means of judging the position of ethyl , as regards its electro-negative fulnction towards the true metals .
At ordinary temperatures , sodium has only a slow action on mercuric ethyl , but after the lapse of a few hours a voluminous grey sponge is formed , whilst the liquid entirely disappears .
This spongelike body has the property of spontaneous combustibility in a marked degree , and is liable to explosion from apparently very slight causes .
By the application of a gentle heat , a strong rush of gaseous matter is evolved which eudiometric experiments proved to be a mixture of ethylene and hydride of ethyl , obviously proceeding from the disintegration of a double molecule of ethyl .
From this experiment we snould conclude that ethyl , methyl , &amp;c. in these radicals are still negative to mercury , and therefore , that mercury , copper , &amp;c. would not , as Mr. Wanklyn supposes , displace ethyl in sodiumethyl* .
More probably , perhaps , sodiumethyl is first formed in the reactioni , and then decomposed by heat Hg C4 H5+Na=Na C4 H5+Hg and by heat 2 ( Na 411H ) +2 Hg=2 Nallgg+ C4H1+0411H11 .
The mercury is supposed here to be inert , and in no way to determine the decomposition .
Stannic diethyl .
Much of the uncertainty which has attached to some of the for* Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. ix .
p. 345 .
mulaw of the salts of stanethyl , has originated , without doubt , from the mode adopted by Lowig in their elimination .
Strecker has lately shown that many of these compounds may , with probability , be referred to the types of the inorganic oxyiodides and oxychlorides of tin .
The following experiments were undertaken with the impression that the pure salts of stanethyl might be more advantageously procured by acting directly on the radical itself .
Stannic diethyl , Sn ( C4 H5)2 , like mercuric ethyl , loses one of its equivalents of ethyl when digested with concentrated acids .
The action , however , is very slow with hydrochloric acid , an oily body being first formed , possessed of an exceedingly pungent odour ; but finally a chloride is obtained having the formula Sn C4IH5 Cl. This salt produces fine , hard crystals , which are soluble in water , and , when pure , almost inodorous .
A more ready method of obtaining this chloride consists in adding the radical , drop by drop , to a layer of bromine covered with water , until the bromine is decolorized ; the aqueous solution is then decomposed by potash , which precipitates oxide of stanethyl in the form of a white powder , from which the pure salts of stanethyl may be readily procured .
The solubility of these salts in aqueous potash has been rather variously stated by Lowig and Frankland , and also their characters as odorous arid irnodorous .
The truth is , that unless the salts of stanethyl are formed from the oxide , they are almost always contaminated with the above-mentioned oilv chloride , the oxide of which is soluble in potash .
As oxide of stanetbyl is not affected by alkaline solutions , these two bodies may be separated without difficulty .
The soluble oxide may be recovered from the alkaline solutions by distillation .
It passes over , together with aqueous vapour , in the form of an exceedingly caustic and pungent oil , which blues litmus , and has all the characters of a powerful base .
Water dissolves it in moderate quantities , but precipitates it again on the addition of common salt .
When deprived of water , the oily base solidifies into a crystalline mass .
This oxyde forms definite salts with acids , all more or less pungent .
With hydrochloric and hydriodic acids , uncrystallizable bodies , insoluble in water , are produced , but with sulphuric acid it forms fine , colourless crystals , which by analysis gave the formula Sn2 C12 I115 SO4 or Sn2 ( C4 115)3 804 .
For this compound I propose the name of sulphate of distannic triethyl .
It has , in a remarkable degree , the unusual property of being more soluble in cold than in hot water .
A cold saturated solution becomes semi-solid by raising the temperature somewhat below ebullition .
A consideration of the elements of the above formula furnished an idea of these bodies being either double salts ; compounded of one equivalent of stannic diethyl with one equivalent of any salt , Sn C4 E3[ X , or else a combinationi of three equivalents of stannic diethyl , with one equivalent of an inorganic salt Sn X2 , resulting in two molecules of the sesqui-ethylated salt .
Thus 3 Sn ( C4 115)2+ Sn C12=2 Sn2 ( C4 ll , ) , Cl. Experiment proves that the former bodies mix , but do not combine chemically , at any moderate heat .
The latter bodies , on the other hand , exhibit strong chemical actionl , and disengage great heat during combination .
Bichloride of tin forms an oily body with stannic diethyl , chiefly composed of chloride of distannic triethyl , which by treatment with potash may be made to furnish the corresponding salts without difficulty .
Iodide of distannic triethyl may often be found amongst the products of the action of tin on iodide of ethyl .
It is very probably identical with the oil noticed by Rich and Cahours , and described by them as possessing the punigent odour of oil of mustard .
These salts also must be considered to be identical with those described by Lowig undea .
the somewhat inappropriate name of " methylo-stanethyls .
" The present name is suggested as more in accordance with their true constitution .
They finally pass , by the action of zincethyl , into the radical stannic diethyl .
The presence of iodide of distannic triethyl amongst the stannic bodies in Lowig 's experiments can be satisfactorily accounted for , by presuming the incomplete reduction of the iodides by the alloy of tin and sodium , employed in the reactions .
The behaviour of zincethyl towards the chlorides of tin may be expressed , step by step , by the following equations , the tin-salt being supposed to be added to the zincethvl I. 2ZnC4IH5+ SnCl2=Sn ( C415)2 +2ZnCl II .
3Zn C4 H5 + 2Sn C12= Sn2 ( C H15)3 Cl + 3Zn Cl III .
Zn C4 114 + Sn CI2Sn C41EI Cl + Zn Ci ; also IVY , 2Zn C4 , II5 + Sn Ci = Sn C4 115 + Zn C4 H5 + Zn Cl. Double compound ?
I have failed in satisfactorily separating the radical stannic ethyl from the excess of zincethyl , as represented in the last reaction .
By the addition of water great heat is generated , and tin is thrown down in its mietallic state .
By distillation also , the radical stannic ethyl is similarly broken up , 2Sn C4 15 = Sn ( C4 Hl)2 + Sn .
Plumbic diethyl .
In the abstract above alluded to , I have stated the difficulties which at that time prevented my obtaining the lead radical in a state of purity .
This difficulty arises from its tendency to decompose suddenly at a point below that of ebullition .
This disadvantage is entirely obviated by conducting the distillation in vacuo , or at least under reduced atmospheric pressure .
The organo-metal was found to distil unchanged under a pressure of 7-5 inches of mercury at a temperature of 1520 C. , the barometer at 30'5 inches .
This is a remarkable lowering of the boiling-point , which at ordinary atmospheric pressures appears to be a few degrees above 2000 C. Analysis gave numbers leading to the formulaPb C8 HIO or Pb ( C4 1H5)5 .
Plumbic diethyl is a limpid and colourless fluid , possessing a specific gravity of 1 62 .
It burns with an orange flame , tinged at the edges with pale green , and disengages whilst burning much oxide of lead .
The only salts hitherto prepared from this radical seemed formed on the type of the sesquioxides .
By passing excess of hydrochloricacid gas over the organo-mfetal , hydride of ethyl is liberated , and chloride of diplumbic triethyl is obtained .
2Pb ( C4 115)2 +H C1= Pb2 ( C. 115)3 Cl+ C4 115 1 .
the chloride is a fine crystallinie body , occurring in long needles , which fuse at a gentle heat , and then take fire , with the characteristic lead flame .
Oxide of diplumbic triethyl may be obtained by heating any of the corresponding salts with strong potash , or by acting on a solution of the chloride with oxide of silver .
It is a crystalline body , which fuses into an oil-like liquid , at a gentle heat .
Sulphuric acid forms an abundant crop of asbestos-like needles when mixed with a warm solution of the chloride of diplumbic triethyl .
It may also be obtained by neutralizing a solution of the oxide , and also by the action of sulphate of silver on the chloride .
Analysis furnished numbers which pointed to the formula Pb , C1 , 1I , a So or Pb , ( C4 1I5)3 SO4 .
All the salts of this sesqui-ethylated base are volatile , and their vapours attack the eyes and mucous membrane of the throat .
In this respect they imitate their homologues in the stannic series .
In concluding this short abstract , I will only express my belief that a wide field of research is still open for inquiry , and tltat some promising experiments are at present in hand , from the right understanding of which we may hope to throw additional light on these interesting substances .

