3 .
" COn a Dorsal dermal Spine of the Hyleeosaurus recently discovered in the Strata of Tilgate Forest .
" By Gideon Algernon Mantell , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. &amp; e. In the first discovered specimen of the remains of the fossil reptile named Hylaeosaurus by the author , there were associated with the recognizable parts of the skeleton a series of thin , long angular processes , six or seven of which extended in a line nearly parallel with the upper part of the vertebral column : these bones are from four to seventeen inches in length .
There are also several imbedded in various parts of the same block of stone ; and in another specimen of this reptile , consisting of a considerable portion of the distal part of the vertebral column , similar angular bones are associated with the spine .
The true nature of these processes , from their great size and osseous character , was deemed very problematical : Dr. Mantell , in his original memoir in 1832 , regarded them as dorsal dermal spines that had formed a serrated crest which extended along the back of the Hyleeosaurus , in the same manner as the horny dermal fringe in many species of Iguana , Cyclura , &amp;c. Professor Owen , in his reports on British fossil reptiles , expressed his dissent from this opinion , and considered it more probable that the bones in question were abdominal ribs .
In a memoir on the Iguanodon and Hylaosaurus ( Phil. Trans. 1849 ) , Dr. Mantell states that he had been able to obtain slices of one of these spines for microscopical examination , and that their internal structure was identical with that of the acknowledged dermal scutes of the same reptile .
Still the true form of the articulating surface of the base of these spines was unknown , every specimen being imperfect in this respect .
At length , after the lapse of eighteen years , Dr. Mantell obtained , through the liberality of Mr. Peter Fuller of Lewes , from the very quarry in which the original specimen of Hylmosaurus was found , the spine figured and described in this communication , in which the base is sufficiently entire to show that the mode of implantation in the skin was identical with that of the true dermal scutes ; thus confirming the author 's original interpretation of these remarkable appendages having constituted a serrated crest along the back of the Hylreosaurus .
The specimens , and the microscopical sections , were exhibited to the Society .

