A paper was read , entitled , " On the Figures obtained by strewing Sand on Vibrating Surfaces , commonly called Acoustic Figures .
" By Charles Wheatstone , Esq. Communicated by Michael Faraday , Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. The author , after adverting to the imperfect notice taken by Gali ?
leo and by Hooke of the phenomena which form the subject of this paper , ascribes to Chladni exclusively the merit of the discovery of the symmetrical figures exhibited by plates of regular form when made to sound .
He proposes a notation , by means of two numbers separated by a vertical line , for expressing the figures resulting from the vibrations of square or rectangular plates .
He gives a table of the relative sounds expressed both by their musical names and by the number of their vibrations , of all the modes of vibration of a square plate , as ascertained by the experiments of Chladni .
He then pro ?
ceeds to class and analyse the various phenomena observed under these circumstances , and shows that all the figures of these vibrating surfaces are the resultants of very simple modes of oscillation , occur ?
ring isochronously , and superposed upon one another ; the resultant figure varying with the component modes of the vibration , the number of the superpositions , and the angles at which they are superposed .
In the present paper , which forms the first part of his investigation , he confines himself to the figures of square and other rectangular The author finds that the principal results of the superposition of two similar modes of vibration are the following : ?
first , the points where the quiescent lines of each figure intersect each other remain quiescent points in the resultant figure ; secondly , the quiescent lines of one figure are obliterated , when superposed , by the vibratory parts of the other j thirdly , new quiescent parts , which may be called points of compensation , are formed whenever the vibrations in opposite directions neutralize each other ; and , lastly , at other points , the motion is as the sum of the concurring , or the differences of the opposing vibrations at these points .
After considering various modes of binary superposition , the author examines the cases of four co-existing su ?
perpositions .
When the vibrations of the superposed modes are unequal in inten ?
sity , there is formed a figure intermediate between the perfect resultant and one of its compounds .
These figures the author denominates imperfect resultants .
In each series of transitions there are certain points which are in ?
variable during all the changes : these are quiescent points , formed by the nodal lines of one figure intersecting those of the other , and the centres of vibration , where the maxima of positive or negative vibration agree in each component mode of vibration .
The points of compensation are changeable .
Transitional figures appear when the sides of the plate are nearly , but not exactly , equal .
The author next considers the figures obtained on square plates of wood and other substances , having different degrees of elasticity in different directions .
He concludes this part of his paper by an account of some optical means of representing the figures noticed by Chladni .

