159 Certain Australian lizards present teeth with large rounded obtuse crowns , like those of certain Placodi , and have on that account received the name of Cyclodus , for their genus .
The author next proceeds to describe certain specimens of the mandible or under jaw of the genus Placodus .
The first of these he refers to a species for which he proposes the name of Placodus pachygnathus .
The second may probably be the lower jaw of the Placodus Andriani , Ag .
; but should it prove to belong to a different species , the term bombidens would best express the specific peculiarity in the shape of the grinding surface of the teeth .
A third species is named Placodus bathygnathus , in reference to the great vertical extent of the mandibular ramus .
All the above-described fossils are from the Muschelkalk member of the triassic series , near Bayreuth , Germany , and have been recently acquired for the Palasontological Series in the British Museum .
The Memoir is accompanied by numerous drawings .
March 18 , 1858. .
The LORD WROTTESLEY , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read : I. " On the probable Origin of some Magnesian Rocks .
" By T. STERRY HUNT , Esq. , of the Geological Survey of Canada .
Communicated by THOMAS GRAHAM , Esq. , Master of the Mint .
Received July 10 , 1857 .
The deposits of mineral matters from natural waters offer many points of interest to the geologist .
Besides the rock-salt and gypsum , which in many cases have doubtless been formed by the spontaneous evaporation of saline waters , it is well known that many mineral springs charged with carbonic acid under pressure , deposit great quantities of earthy salts when they come to the surface , and that the travertines thus formed often constitute extensive masses .
The 160 deposit from the hot alkaline saline springs of Carlsbad , which forms great beds , was found byBerzelius to consist chiefly of carbonate of lime , with portions of oxide or carbonate of iron , and small quantities of silica , strontia , phosphoric acid and fluorine ; the analyses of other chemists have added to the list of elements met with in these and similar precipitates , manganese , zinc , cobalt , nickel , chromium , arsenic , antimony , tin , copper and lead .
Carbonate of magnesia is however wanting , or present only in very small proportion in these deposits , and the same is true of the calcareous sinter from cold springs .
The Carlsbad water , however , contains for 17 parts of carbonate of lime , 10 parts of carbonate of magnesia ; but this latter salt , according to Berzelius , is only deposited after evaporation .
The analyses by Berzelius and Struve of the various carbonated waters of Germany , show that carbonate of lime is generally present in much larger quantities than carbonate of magnesia ; and it is only in the waters of Piillna and the Elisenbrunnen of Kreuznach , which contain very little carbonic acid , that we find a large amount of carbonate of magnesia , with a small portion of carbonate of lime .
The water of Piillna , according to Struve , contains in 1000 parts , 32 72 of solid matters , consisting of sulphates and chlorides of sodium , magnesium and a little calcium , besides ยง 10 of carbonate of lime and ?
83 of carbonate of magnesia ; it contains only --uths of its volume of carbonic acid gas .
In my analyses of the waters of the western basin of Canada , I have found many brine-springs , which , although rising from Lower Silurian limestones , hold no appreciable amount of earthy carbonates , but contain besides common salt , large quantities of chlorides of calcium and magnesium ; they are in fact veritable bitterns .
The mineral springs of these palseozoic strata appear to be in all cases connected with undulations producing disruptions of the strata , through which the subterranean waters find egress .
In the almost undisturbed region of the west , the springs are consequently rare , but in the disturbed country further east , along the north-western limit of the Green Mountains , which are composed of these same palneozoic strata in an altered condition , the mineral waters become very abundant .
Five or six springs , often differing in kind , may sometimes be found within a short distance along the same line of fault , but 161 where the strata become crystalline , the mineral waters are no longer met with .
In this eastern region the saline waters issuing from the same limestones as the springs just described , are generally more dilute than those of the west , and although , like them , containing but very little carbonic acid , deposit by boiling or evaporation large quantities of earthy salts , chiefly carbonate of magnesia .
Many of these waters contain earthy chlorides , and are analogous to the Pullna spring , while others , still strongly saline , are alkaline from the presence of carbonate of soda .
The solubility of the carbonate of magnesia in these waters is explained by the observations of H. Rose , who has shown that the partial precipitate produced in the cold , by carbonate of soda in a solution of a neutral salt of magnesia , is redissolved by an excess either of the magnesian salt or the alkaline carbonate , and is only thrown down from these solutions by heat .
Longchamp has further remarked , that the precipitation by heat is rendered less complete in proportion as the carbonate , sulphate or hydrochlorate of the alkali is in excess , and that the precipitate at first formed under these circumstances is redissolved on cooling .
I have verified this last observation in the case of these natural waters , from which the magnesian carbonate is only separated , when they are evaporated to a small volume .
When thus evaporated , even at a very gentle heat , these mineral waters yield large quantities of granular carbonate of magnesia , often nearly pure .
With these facts in view , it is very easy to trace a relation between the saline waters , containing carbonate of magnesia , and another class of springs in which the predominant element is carbonate of soda , with small quantities of common salt , borax and earthy carbonates .
These waters , although wanting in the west , are very abundant in eastern Canada , and rise from the same formations as the saline springs , but are most abundant in the argillaceous strata immediately overlying the lower limestones , which appear to be the source of the salines .
These alkaline waters probably owe their origin to the slow decomposition of felspathic debris in presence of earthy carbonates .
By the mingling of these solutions of carbonate of soda with the bitterns of the limestones , the carbonate of lime would be precipitated , except so far as an excess of carbonic acid were present , while car162 bonate of magnesia would remain in solution , as in the Carlsbad waters .
The mixture of these alkaline springs with sea-water would yield similar results .
From my analyses of more than sixty of the different mineral springs of Canada , to be found in the published reports of the Geological Survey , I select a few characteristic waters of each class , giving here only approximatively the determinations of the principal ingredients for 1000 parts .
A. Saline waters , containing little or no earthy carbonate .
B. Alkaline waters , feebly saline .
C. Saline waters , holding abundance of earthy carbonates .
a. Neutral , containing earthy chlorides .
6 .
Alkaline , containing carbonate of soda .
Sprig .
Solid Carb. Chlor .
Chlor .
Carb. Carb. Springs , matters .
soda .
calcium .
magnes .
lime .
magnes .
A. Whitby ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 17-53 9-54 06 Hallowell ... ... ... ... . .
68-00 ... 15-90 12-90 ... , , Hallowell ... ... ... ... . .
36-00 ... 9-20 9-40 ... B. Chambly ... ... ... ... ... ... 2-13 1'06 ... ... '04 -07 , , Nicolet ... ... ... ... ... ... .
56 1-13 ... ... not determined , Saint-Ours ... ... ... .
53 -13 ... 1 .
7 '13 , , Jacques-Cartier ... ... ... 34 '19 ... . .
07 -03 , , Joly ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
75 '23 ... ... '06 '02 C a. Caledonia ( V. ) ... ... ... ... 14-64 ... -28 1-03 '12 -86 , , Saint-Leon ... ... ... ... ... 1383 ... 07 66 35 94 Caxton ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 136 5 ... 5 37 21 1-06 Plantagenet ... ... ... ... .
13-16 ... '13 24 '03 '89 , Sainte-Genevie-ve ... ... 20-99 ... -60 2-05 -01.75 , , Berthier ... ... ... ... ... ... 04 *08 05 83 C. b. Varennes ... ... ... ... . .
958 -32 ... ... 35 35 Fitzroy ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 8-34 59 ... ... -15 *78 Caledonia ( 1 ) ... ... ... 7-75 05 ... ... 15 52 Few of the above waters contain sulphates , but baryta and strontia are present in very many of them ; the amount of these two bases in the Varennes spring is equal to '016 , while in that of Lanoroie , a water of the class B , containing 12'88 of solid matters , there were found '030 of baryta and '021 of strontia .
Small quantities of silica , alumina , phosphoric acid , manganese and iron are present in all of these springs , and in the alkaline and many of the saline waters a portion of boracic acid ; the borate is included with the carbonate 163 of soda in the above analyses .
Bromine and iodine are found in all the saline waters .
I have shown , in my analyses of five alkaline saline waters from Caledonia and Varennes , that the amount of carbonic acid is much less than is required to form bicarbonates with the soda , lime and magnesia which these waters contain , so that the magnesia must be held dissolved as a mono-carbonate .
In the water of Chambly , on the contrary , there is no deficiency of carbonic acid , and the bases exist as bicarbonates .
The temperatures of these springs range from 46 ?
to 53 ?
F. ; some of them are therefore to be regarded as slightly thermal .
Interstratified with the shales and sandstones of the Quebec division of the Lower Silurian rocks , which immediately overlie the strata yielding these alkaline waters , are found thick beds of pure limestone , sometimes presenting the agatized structure and semitranslucency which characterize certain travertines , but at other times opaque , homogeneous , and including remains of orthoceratites , trilobites and other fossils .
Associated with these beds of pure carbonate of lime are others which are magnesian , and contain considerable quantites of carbonate of iron , which causes them to weather reddish brown .
These beds are always granular in texture , and contain a variable portion of siliceous sand ; they often become conglomerate , enlclosing pebbles of quartz and schist , or more frequently fragments of a pure compact limestone , seemingly identical with that of the beds just described .
Thin layers of the ferruginous magnesian rock sometimes separate beds of the pure carbonate of lime , or form lenticular masses in its midst , and seem to replace its fossils .
The pure limestones also sometimes form the base of a conglomerate , or are mixed with sand and argillaceous matters .
These magnesian rocks , like the pure limestones of this formation , occur in irregular and interrupted beds ; they often attain a thickness of many yards , are destitute of fossils , and contain from ten to forty per cent. , and even more , of sand or clay .
The portion soluble in acids is sometimes a dolomite with carbonate of iron ; at other times the lime is wanting , or present only in traces , and we have a ferruginous magnesite .
In two previous notes presented to the Society , I have already explained the manner in which I suppose these siliceous carbonates to have been , in some parts of the forma164 tion , transformed into silicates , such as serpentine , talc , chlorite and pyroxene , by the subsequent intervention of heated solutions of alkaline carbonates .
It appears to me that we may explain the origin of these magnesian deposits , by the spontaneous evaporation of magnesian waters .
If the waters of Carlsbad were to become stagnant above their deposited travertine , they would yield by evaporation beds of ferruginous dolomite , and waters like those of Caxton , Plantagenet , and Sainte-Genevieve would furnish carbonate of magnesia nearly free from lime .
Nothing forbids us to suppose the existence of waters more highly charged than these with magnesian carbonate , formed perhaps by the action of carbonate of soda upon lagoons of seawater , whose lime may be removed as carbonate , or by previous evaporation as sulphate .
The lagoons in Bessarabia , supplied with the waters of the Black Sea , deposit annually large beds of rock-salt ; and it would require only the intervention of waters like those of the natron lakes of Hungary and Egypt , to produce deposits of magnesian carbonate .
The conditions of these deposits at Pointe-Levis and elsewhere in the Quebec group , seem to point to the existence of basins along an ancient sea-shore , which probably marked the first upheaval of the older Silurian strata .
Beds of travertine were there formed , and then the sea flowed over these deposits and gave rise to the fossiliferous limestones ; but there were intervals of disturbance , indicated by the conglomerates , and these movements , or the deposition of bars along the shore , gave rise to lagoons or basins cut off from the sea , where , by evaporation under the conditions which we have supposed , magnesian precipitates would be deposited .
The absence of fossils in these beds is probably connected with the peculiar composition of the waters .

