288 On the Orientation of Greek Temples .
placed between the pots , and the watts and temperature gradients were determined in the manner described .
At least two tests of each material were made , the mean temperature throughout being about 40 ' centigrade .
The results are given in the table ( p. 287 ) .
It will be noticed that hair felt was the best insulator that was tested .
The insulation in the case of brown paper was practically that of air with subdivided spaces , a , s the paper occupied relatively a small volume ; a comparison of this with insulation by air only will show how great an improvement in air-lagging such a simple expedient will give .
In repeating the experiments with wider ranges and a higher mean temperature , indications were observed tending to show that the conductivity is a function of the temperature .
It is hoped to continue the investigation as regards this point , and to extend it to other insulators .
" On the Orientation of Greek Temples , being the Results of some Observations taken in Greece and Sicily , in May , 1898 .
" By F. C. Penrose , M.A. , F.RS .
Received May 5 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The orientation of the Cabeirion Temple , near Thebes , of which the angle has been disputed ( see p. 46 in my paper of 1897 ) , was remeasured with the theodolite in May , 1898 , and the previous observations confirmed .
An additional example is added from an archaic Temple of Neptune in the Isle of Poros , introducing the employment of the bright zodiacal star Regulus , which I had not before met with .
In Sicily the re-examination of the temples at Girgenti , where , in my former visit , I had relied for azimuth on the sun 's shadow and the time , has enabled me to give to the elements some amendments in detail , the only point of consequence being , that the orientation date of the temple named Juno Lacinia is brought within the period of the Hellenic colonisation of that city .
The most interesting point in the paper seems to be , that in the case of two Athenian temples , namely the Theseum and the later Erechtheum\#151 ; i.e. , the temple now partially standing\#151 ; it is shown that the days of those months on which the sunrise , heralded by the star , illuminated the sanctuary , coincided exactly , on certain years of the Metonic cycle , with the days of the Athenian lunar months on which three important festivals known to be connected with at least one of those temples were held .
The years so determined agnSe remarkably well with the probable dates of the dedication of those temples ; and in the case of the first mentioned , the festival .
Which was named The Thesea , seems to leave little doubt that the traditional name of the temple , which has recently been much disputed , is the correct one .

