44 Prof. O. Reynolds and Mr. J. H. Smith .
On [ Mar. 5 , " On a Throw-testing Machine for Reversals of Mean Stress .
" By Osborne Reynolds , F.R.S. , and J. H. Smith , M.Sc .
, Whitworth Scholar , Victoria University .
Received March \#151 ; Read March 20 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) The present research , which was carried on in the Whitworth Engineering Laboratory of the Owens College , Manchester , was undertaken at the suggestion of Professor Osborne Reynolds , who proposed an investigation of " repeated stress " on the following lines :\#151 ; The stress should be direct tension , and compression of approximately equal amounts , such tension and compression being obtained by means of the inertia force of an oscillatory weight .
The rapidity of repetitions should be much higher than in the experiments of Wohler , Spangen-berg , Bauschinger , 'and Baker\#151 ; in fact , ranging as high as 2000 reversals per minute .
In the apparatus employed a weight is supported vertically by means of the specimen to be tested , and the upper part of the specimen receives a periodic motion in a vertical direction by means of a crank and a connecting rod .
The inertia of this weight gives a tension at the bottom end , and a compression at the top end of the stroke , the change from tension to compression being gradual .
The specimen and parts are guided by suitable bearings placed in a vertical direction .
The motion was made vertical in order to reduce the friction of the bearings to a minimum .
The stresses can be changed by Varying the diameter of the specimen , the load , and the speed of revolution of the crank .
In order to enable one to calculate the stresses in the specimen , the centre of the crank shaft must be at rest , and the crank must move with uniform angular velocity .
These conditions are obtained when the crank shaft is driven by a constant turning effort , if the moving parts of the machine are balanced , and if at the same time the total energy of the moving parts is invariable .
The apparatus was therefore designed to satisfy these conditions as approximately as possible .
The apparatus was driven by the low-pressure engine of the triple expansion experimental engines , and had a speed indicator and a revolution counter attached .
A great amount of trouble was experienced in lubricating* the machine and in keeping .the fluctuations of velocity small .
The specimens employed were carefully prepared , and with a few exceptions were of constant length and diameter .
They were , in most cases , annealed before testing .
In conducting the tests the reversals for rupture were estimated 1902 .
] Throw-testing Machine for Reversals of Mean Stress .
from the mean speed and the interval between the time of attaining full speed and breaking .
In many cases the test could not be carried out without interruption , and for this reason the specimens had to rest , sometimes for a few days .
The effect of these periods of rest on the total reversals for rupture was investigated , and found to be negligible .
In carrying out the tests it was found that for a series of tests in which the range of stress was being lowered ( the specimens were of constant diameter ) , the limiting range of stress was more rapidly approached by this apparatus than by that of Wohler .
Since the diminution of range was obtained by diminishing the speed , this suggested that the limiting range of stress varied with the speed .
It is possible to use six different loads for the machine , and therefore to repeat a test with a given range of stress at six different speeds .
It was observed that when more than one million reversals were required for rupture the rate of change of reversals with range of stress was very great indeed , and the author for this reason decided to limit in general the tests to one million reversals .
In the case of mild steel , six sets of tests were carried out corresponding to the six different loads which could be applied to the machine ; six sets of results , similar to those of Wohler , were obtained ; these results were plotted , and the range of stress for rupture with one million reversals was obtained at six different speeds .
The results were :\#151 ; Reversals per minute .
m The mean result of statical tests for the mild steel employed in these experiments was :\#151 ; Yield stress ... ... ... ... ... . .
17*12 tons Maximum stress , ... ... ... ... 24*54 , , Breaking , , 20*47 , , Percentage elongation ... ... .
30 In the case of cast steel , four sets of tests were carried out .
The results obtained were very little different from those of mild steel .
Thus the important conclusions arrived at are \#151 ; 1 .
The reversals for rupture with a given range of stress diminishes as the periodicity of the reversals increases .
Range of stress for rupture with 106 reversals .
20*9 20*1 19*2 18*1 15*2 12*4 Mr. J. H. Jeans .
[ Mar. 6 , 2 .
The hard steels will not withstand a greater number of reversals of the same range of stress than the mild steels if the periodicity of the reversals is great .
" The Equilibrium of Rotating Liquid Cylinders .
" By J. H. Jeans , B.A. , Isaac Newton Student and Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor G. H. Darwin , F.R.S. Received March 6 , \#151 ; Read March 20 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) The most serious obstacle to progress in the problem of determining the equilibrium configurations of a rotating liquid lies in the difficulty of determining the potential of a mass of homogeneous matter of which the boundary is given .
If this boundary is / ( * .
y , i ) = o ( i ) , the potential will be a unique-valued function of and z , of which the form will depend solely upon the form of This potential must therefore be deducible by some algebraical transformation of the function / .
In the method usually followed the solution is found as a volume integral , the integration extending throughout the surface ( i ) .
There is , however , a second method of obtaining this potential , namely , by regarding the potential-function as the solution of a differential equation , subject to certain boundary conditions .
This , leads directly to a series of algebraical processes , enabling us ( theoretically ) to deduce the potential by transformation of the function / .
In three-dimensional problems this method is quite impracticable , since it depends upon a continued application of the formula which expresses the products or powers of spherical harmonies as the sum of a series of harmonics .
As soon , however , as we pass to the consideration of two-dimensional problems , the spherical harmonics may be replaced by circular functions of a single variable .
The transformation now becomes manageable , and for this reason the present paper deals only with two-dimensional problems , for which a method is developed enabling us to write down the potential by transformation of the equation of the boundary .
The method is not of universal applicability , but is adequate to the problem in hand .
The method as applied to the determination of equilibrium configurations is as follows .
Starting from the general equation ( in polar co-ordinates ) r1 = a0 + 2oqr cos 6 + 2a2r2 cos + ... ... ... ... ( ii ) ,

