1903.1 The Bionomics of Convoluta Eoscoffensis , etc " The Bionomics of Convoluta Boscoffensis , with special Reference* to its Green Cells .
" By F. W. Gamble , D.Se .
, Owens .
College , Manchester , and Frederick Keeble , M.A. , University College , Reading .
Communicated by Professor S. J. Hickson , F.R.S. Received April 24 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1903 .
The communication is an abstract of our observations on the Bionomics of Convoluta Boscoffensis , the green Turbellarian peculiar to* the coast of Brittany .
A detailed illustrated account of these observations will be published shortly .
The work was begun at Roscoffin 1901 , and has been carried on since at Tregastel ( C6tes du Nord ) , and in the laboratories of Owens College , Manchester , and University College , Reading .
It contains the following sections 1 .
Food ; 2 , Development of the Green Cells ; 3 , Tropisms ; 4 , .
Ecology .
I.\#151 ; Food .
A. Previous Observations.\#151 ; Previous observers have failed to demonstrate the presence of ingested solid food in either the larval or adult stage of Convoluta .
Geddes,1 Yon Graff,2 and Haberlandt,3 concluded that Convoluta does not feed , but that the animal derives its food-material from the products of the photosynthesis carried on by its green cells .
Geddes and Haberlandt were confirmed in this conclusion on finding ; that the animal , when placed in darkness , dies in the course of two or three days .
B. Observations by the Autlioi'S.\#151 ; Our observations stand in direct contradiction to these .
Convoluta feeds , and feeds voraciously .
From the time of hatching up till the time of commencing maturity , Convoluta ( 1\#151 ; 5 mm. long ) ingests diatoms , algse , spores , grains of sand and colonies of bacteria .
It also takes up such substances as litmus , eongo-red , \amp ; c. , with avidity .
Mature and immature specimens digest masses of their own green cells , the discoloured remains of which form conspicuous brown clumps in the gut .
Moreover , we have maintained Convoluta alive in complete darkness-for more than a fortnight , and find that the starch of the green cells-disappears with extreme sloivness : not till after five days of darkness in young ( 1\#151 ; 2 mm. long ) animals ; seven days in adults .
We conclude:\#151 ; ( 1 ) that Convoluta has not lost its power of independent nutrition .
( 2 ) That the animal obtains little , if any , food from the reserves of its green cells .
( 3 ) That the sand in which Convoluta lives is not barren of other life as Yon Graff supposed , but that it supports a rich and varied flora and fauna .
*.94 Dr. F. W. Gamble and Mr. F. Keeble .
[ Apr. 24 , We have demonstrated the dependence of starch formation in the ..green cells on the presence of light , by maintaining animals in darkness till all reserve-starch has disappeared and then exposing them to light .
:Starch makes its appearance in the green cells after less than ten minutes exposure to bright sunlight .
By the use of monochromatic screens , we show that the rays which are most active are\#151 ; as in plant chloroplasts\#151 ; those between B and C \#166 ; \#166 ; ( Fraunhofer lines ) ; that no assimilation ( as measured by reserve starch ) takes place in the green ; that some occurs in the blue .
The spectrum of the alcoholic extract of chlorophyll of Convoluta examined by the hand spectroscope shows the chief absorption band of chlorophyll ( between B and C ) and strong absorption of the blue end .
II.\#151 ; Development of the Green Cells .
A. General.\#151 ; Direct proof that the green or yellow cells of protozoa , Coelenterates , Turbellaria and other animals are due to an infection from without has been obtained only in the cases of sea anemones \#166 ; ( Brandt4 ) , Hydra viridis and Stentor ( Beyerinc-k5 and Famintzin6 ) .
The pure cultures , in the latter cases , have been identified with the green .alga , Chlorella vulgaris .
A similar origin by infection is assumed for ; the green cells of other animals , and the relation is generally regarded dn all cases as a symbiosis .
B. Previous Observations.\#151 ; With respect to , Haberlandt ; failed to cultivate the green cells .
Observing their remarkable histological features ( absence of cellulose wall , \amp ; c. ) , he put forward the hypothesis that the green cells are parts of the animal\#151 ; animal -cells to which a leucoplast is transmitted from the egg .
Georgevitch7 hatched out Convoluta , showed that it develops as a colourless larva , and claims that such a colourless larva , if kept in .sterilised water , fails to develop green cells and dies within two days .
He concluded that the green cells gain access to the animal from the .-sea-water .
C. Experiments of the Authors.\#151 ; Our experiments lead us to the ..following conclusions:\#151 ; a. A leucoplast cannot be detected in the egg .
b. Convoluta , hatched in sterilised water , may live for two weeks therein .
c. The first indication of the future green cell is colourless and not green .
Infection , if it occur , is by a colourless cell .
d. The precautions to insure sterile conditions taken by Georgevitch and by ourselves in our earlier experiments are useless .
In these experiments the egg-capsule was placed in sterilised water .
We find , however , that the egg-capsule bears a rich and varied collection of green , pale green and colourless cell-colonies .
1903 .
] The Bionomics of Convoluta Roscoffensis , e. Contrary to Georgevitch 's statement , when hatched from egg-capsules placed in sterilised water , are found , in a certain number of cases , to develop green cells .
Hence either the green cells are not the result of infection , or infection may take place from the capsular flora .
j. The latter alternative is probably correct , for the more precautions are taken to protect hatching Comoluta from infection , the fewer are the cases in which green cells or their colourless antecedents make their appearance in the animals .
g. The colourless antecedents of the green cells are first seen in the gut , just above the mouth .
D. Conclusions.\#151 ; Direct proof of infection is lacking .
The evidence , however , points most strongly to infection .
The infecting organism is \amp ; colourless cell .
Infection often takes place from the capsule .
The situation and colourlessness of the infecting cell suggest the view that this cell is a saprophytic stage in the life history of the green cell .
Such saprophytic colourless stages are well known in green algae , diatoms , and flagellates ( Kriiger,8 Karsten,9 Dangeard10 ) .
The colourless cells are taken up in company with other organisms .
A pure culture is made from this mixed infection in the gut of the .animal .
There the cells divide and , contained in wandering cells , are .carried to their final station in the periphery of the body .
Some remain colourless .
The majority become green .
We regard the presence of the green cells as due to a peculiar and .special case of phagocytosis , in which neither green cell nor wandering cell is destroyed .
The facts do not lend support to the view that the relation between .animal and alga is symbiotic .
The green cells undoubtedly derive food from the animal .
The \#166 ; animal derives but little if any food from the green cells .
We regard the green cells as facultative parasites .
In their relationship to their host they recall , in some measure , such cases as Chlorochijtrium lemnce and .other green algae which live in the leaves of aquatic and other plants .
III.\#151 ; Tro A. Previous Observations.\#151 ; Geddes ( 1879 ) first recorded positive phototropism ( phototactism ) .
Yon Graff and Haberlandt ( 1891 ) .observed negative geotropism in stillness , positive geotropism in the presence of vibrations .
B. Observations of the Authors.\#151 ; a. Geotropism .
The observations .cited above were confirmed .
The young at hatching react .
to gravity in the same way as adults .
In the absence of the otolith , geotropism \#166 ; does not occur .
The reflex mechanism involves the anterior end of the body .
The kinder end of animals divided transversely does not react to gravity .
96 I)r .
F. W. Gamble and Mr. E. Keeble .
[ Apr. 24 , .
b. Thermotropism.\#151 ; Convoluta is attuned to a high heat-intensity .
It is athermotropic at ordinary temperatures .
Just below the lethal point ( 38 ' C. ) it is negatively thermotropic .
The response , however , , is singularly and often fatally imperfect .
c. Phototropism.\#151 ; Convoluta is positively phototropic , but only under certain conditions .
A sudden elevation of light-intensity induces a negative phototropism .
Back-ground may inhibit phototropic response. .
At the moment of hatching Convoluta is aphototropic .
The power of response to light develops rapidly , appearing a few hours after hatching .
The anterior end only of animals divided transversely is photo-tropic .
The rays active in producing phototropism are the green .
The blue-rays , which are active in inducing movement in zoospores , in Euglena and in plants generally ( Pfeffer11 ) , produce no tropic effect in . .
The red rays produce a feeble negative tropism .
The tonic influence of light is more important than the tropic influence .
To the former influence is due the remarkable periodic- " tidal " movement which , as we have found , Convoluta performs .
After a spell of insolation , colonies sink below the surface , and after a certain sojourn in darkness they return to the surface .
Theses movements synchronise with the covering and uncovering of the Convoluta zone by the tides .
They take place in colonies brought into the laboratory , but do not occur when such colonies are kept in darkness .
Convoluta , after a certain spell of illumination , passes into* a condition of light-rigor .
In this condition it is singularly inert and susceptible to mechanical injury .
d. Itheotropism.\#151 ; Convoluta reacts to changes in rate of flow of water .
In a moderate stream , it tends to move up stream .
Under the stimulus of a suddenly increased flow it sticks to the ground when this is impossible , it contracts itself and is carried down stream .
IV.\#151 ; Ecology .
A. Previous Observations.\#151 ; Geddes and Von Graff have recorded the distribution of Convoluta along the shores of the He de Batz , Roscoff-They describe the rapid disappearance of the colonies when the sand is tapped or when the tide flows over them .
They suggest that light and gravity provide the stimuli whereby these movements are regulated .
B. Observations of the Authors.\#151 ; The Convoluta zone is determined by the outflow of drainage tidal water .
The upper limit of the zone-corresponds to the high-water mark of lowest neap tides .
This situation insures the maximum of light-exposure consistent with security from desiccation. .
Convoluta is neither a sub-aerial nor a 1903 .
] The Bionomics of Convoluta Eoscoffensis , etc. 97 marine animal .
It lives in a film of water , and has migrated , from the sea , shorewards to the highest level consistent with aquatic life .
The stations occupied by Convoluta are remarkably constant .
The .constituent patches of a colony may be recognised day after day for months together .
Nevertheless , diurnal and fortnightly variations in the size of the colonies occur .
The diurnal variations are tidaleach patch reaches its maximum size soon after its site is exposed .
The size slowly decreases till the tide comes in .
When the tide comes within a few feet , the patch disappears suddenly .
At night the colonies do not ascend .
In addition to its daily variations , exhibits a fortnightly lunar variation .
The colonies , with their constituent patches , increase to a maximum during spring-tides , and decrease to a minimum during neap-tides .
The daily variations are due to the tonic effect of light , in which tonic effect must be included the " after-effect " of prolonged light-exposure .
The fortnightly variations are due to periodicity of reproduction .
The majority of animals of a mature colony discharge their eggs in egg-capsules at the onset of the spring tides .
The capsules are laid beneath the sand .
In most cases the body of the animal is ruptured during the process of laying .
The hinder half remains in the sand , the head end rises and joins the patch .
Thus at neap-tide the size .of the patches and hence of the colony is decreased .
The colonial habit of Convoluta which distinguishes it from its allies appears to be an indirect result of its tropisms .
In obedience to tropic stimuli it becomes adept at vertical movements to the .exclusion , in very large measure , of horizontal movements .
The lethargic state induced by prolonged light and prolonged darkness also tends to preserve groups of Convoluta on the patch to which they belong .
Gregariousness is in this view a negative quality .
REFERENCES .
1 Gfeddes , P. , " On the Physiology and Histology of Convoluta 1 Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' yoI .
28,1879 .
2 Yon Oraff , L. , ' Turbellaria Acoela .
' Leipzig .
Engelmann .
1891 .
8 Haberlandt , * fiber den Bau u. d. Bedeutung der Chlorophyllzellen von Convoluta roscoffensis .
' Appendix to von Gfraff 's wort , pp. 76\#151 ; 90 .
4 Brandt , K. , " fiber die morphologische u. physiologische Bedeutung des Chlorophylls bei Thieren , " ' Mittlieil .
Zool. Stat. Neap el .
, ' vol. 4 , 1883 .
5 Beyerinck , M. W. , " Kulturversuche mit Zoochlorellen , " 'Botan .
Zeitung , ' Jabrgang 48 , 1890 , pp. 745 and 784 .
6 Famintzin , A. , " Beitrag sir Symbiose von Algen u. Thieren , " ' Memoires de l'Acad .
imp .
d. Sci. St. Petersburg , ' vol. 36 , 1889 ( Radiolaria and Anemones ) ; vol. 38,1891 ( Stentorand Paramecium ) .
7 Gteorgevitch , " Recherch.es sir le developpement de la Convoluta roscoffensis , " ' Archives d. Zool. Experim .
et generale , ' Ser. 3 , vol. 7 , 1899 .
98 Prof. W. J. Sollas .
Investigation of Fossils .
[ May 19 , 8 Kruger , W. , " Beitr\amp ; ge sir Kenntniss der Organismen des Saftflusses der Laubbaume , " Zopf 's* Beitrage sir Physiologic niederer Organismen , ' vol. 4,1894 .
9 Karsten , \lt ; 3- .
, 'Ueber farblose Diatomeen , ' Flora , yol .
89 .
Erganzungbd .
1901 .
10 Dangeard , " Reclierelies sir les Eugleniens , " ' Le Botaniste , ' toI .
8 , 1902 .
11 Pfeffer , W. , 'Text-Book of Vegetable Physiology , ' English Trans. , vol. 1 , 1900 , p. 430 .
" A Method for the Investigation of Fossils by Serial Sections .
" By W. J. Sollas , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.E.S. , Professor of Geology and Palaeontology in the University of Oxford .
Eeceived May 19 , \#151 ; Eead June 11 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) Mechanical difficulties preclude the study of fossils by serial thin slices , but serial polished surfaces may be obtained at any desired degree of proximity , and these , when the fossil and its matrix offer sufficient optical contrast , serve most of the purposes of thin slices .
They may be photographed under the microscope , so as to furnish a trustworthy and permanent record .
The sections may be used to obtain reconstructions of the fossil in wax .
Several fossils have been successfully studied in this way : such as Pakeospondylus Gunni , Ophiura Egertoni , Lapwortlmra Afiltoni , Monograptus priodon and Palceodiscus ferax .
The sections are obtained at regular intervals , usually of 0 * 025 mm. , by means of an apparatus designed for the purpose by the Eev .
F. Jervis-Smith , F.E.S. , Eeader of Mechanics in the University .
" An Account of the Devonian Fish , Palceospondylus Gunni , Traquair .
" By W. J. Sollas , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology and Palaeontology in the University of Oxford , and Igekna B. J. Sollas , B.Sc. , Lecturer in Zoology , Newnham College Cambridge .
Eeceived May 19 , \#151 ; Eead June 11 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) This fossil , which has been variously referred to an alliance with Lampreys , Tadpoles , and Lung-fish , has been successfully studied by means of serial sections .
The ventral surface of the head bears four pairs of branchial bars , with the last of which two post-branchial plates , the so-called " post-occipital " plates , are associated ; in front of the branchial bars are two pairs of structures , which are regarded as representing the lower jaw and hyoid ; they are supported by a

