]\gt ; of Temperatnre of Crater Electric Arc. 377 strong illumination therefore the sympathetic dark reaction would seem to be least in the case of the red fibres .
Subjective coloul.s of the same class as those by Benham 's lop , but not nearly so conspicuous , have long been known .
Helmmentions that if a rotating disk with black and white sectors is looked at fixedly , white sector appears to be reddish along its leading border and bluish along its rear border .
He also remarks that these colours are more easily seen upon a disk covered with two spiral bands , black and white , of equal breadth .
From these and other observations , Helmholtz concludes that when a point of the l.etina is exposed to aIternations of white light and of dark-ness , causing successive states of incl'easing and decreasing excitation , the moment of maximum excitalion is not the same for all colours .
It has , however , been shown above that in allalogous cases the originates in a portion of the retiua which has not been exposed to the action of light , while the blue ates in a portion where light has not ceased to act .
Helnlhol bupposition therefore does not apply\mdash ; at least to the class of colours at present under consideration .
I have not made any attempt to account more feeble colours ibited by the two intermediate groups of lines Benham 's top , nor for changes which 0CCU } the speed of rotation is increased .
effects no doubt reslllt , at le in { rom modifications of the phenomena already discussed .
But the I am compelled to discontinue the account of the disagreeable and probably effects which they tlpon the eyes .
On the Effect of Pressure in the ounding Gas on the Temperature of the Crater of an Electl'ic Arc. Correction of Results in former Paper By .
E. VILSON , F.R.S. , and G. F. FITZGERALD , F.R.S. Received November \mdash ; Read December 17 , ) May , 1895 , a preliminary pape by one of the authors at Royal Society , which is ibed the apparatus used for these experiments , and the results which w then obtained .
The object of this was to determine , if possible , whether the tempel.ature of the crater in the positive carbon aries when the pressure in the .
gas is chan .
It has been suggested that the temperature of is of * 'Phys .
Optik , ' S 23 Messrs. .
E. Wilson and G. F. Fitzgerald .
boiliug carbon .
The most modern determinations give this tempel.ature of the clater as about If this is the true boiling point of carbon , it is then clear that solar physicists must find some other substance than solid carbon particles to form the pbotospheric clouds in the sun , as the temperature of this layer is most probably not below 8000 unless , indeed , the pressure in the solal .
atmosphere is sufficient to raise the boiliDg point of carbon to about this temperature ( see p. 381 ) .
It is in order throw some light on this subject that these experiments were undertaken .
The gas used in our first experiments was nitrogen , and we found that the radiation from the crater fell off in a most remarkable nner whenever the pressure was raised in the box surrounding the arc .
This falling off was not dne to any very large extent to visible cloud or smoke , and the crater seemed so much reduced in temperature as to glow with only a red heat .
This seemed to show that the tempel'ature of the crater depends on how much it is cooled by the ounding gas , and not on its being the temperature at which the vapour of carbon has the same pressure as the surrounding atmosphere .
It was found that we were limited to pressures not exceeding about 20 atmos .
, as at this pressure we could not withdraw the negative cal.bon sufficiently to see into the crater without the arc breaking .
We were then only able to obtain a current from a battery of accumulators which had an E.M.F. of 110 voIts .
Since then we obtained a Crompton dynamo which could give volts and 15 amperes , and which was iven by a turbine .
From the great difficulty of obtaining a sufficient quantity of pure nitrogen under pressure , we obtained a 20 .
cyliuder of air comto 120 atmos .
With this we tried a series of experiments , and these at first seemed to corroborate our former ones , in which we oeed nitrogen , but we found that at any rate some of the radiation , and possibly a great deal of it , was cut off by the formation of what appeared to be red fumes of .
We found no absorption from this cause so long as the pressure was nearly atmospheric , but at about 100 lbs. this was formed with great rapidity , and undoubtedly cut a great deal of the radiation .
We easily contirmed our belief in the presence of this gas by its well known absorption spectrum .
Lest heat dissociation might cause an apparent increase in the amoullt of , we heating some of this gas in a flask .
We observed that when hot the brown fumes became golden yellow , and *Wilson and Gray , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc ; Violle , 'Journ .
de 3rd , vol. 2 , 1893 , p. 545 .
Wilson and Gray , ' Phil , Tl.ans .
, ' , 1894 .
of Pressure of Crater of Electric Arc. 379 the absorption bands nearly disappeared , so that the heating could not ]lave been the cause of the apparently enormous production of at high pressnre .
We next tried whether oxygen blown into the arc would burn up the carbons , but it did not do so to auy serious extent , and so tried the arc a compressed atmosphere of this gas .
The arc burned very nicely indeed in the oxygen , the carbons keeping a good shape , and a steady crate ] .
The oxygen was , however , so contaminated with nitrogen that at high pressure enormous antibies of were that we could not proceed further with the radiation experiments .
The arc was a bright blue bead , about the size of a pea , and the spectrum was a beautiful banded one .
From these results we concluded that the reduction of radiation , and red-hot appearance of the crater in the former experiments in nitrogen , were due to its being contaminated with oxygen and to the large quantities of , which were formed by the arc when under pressure .
We next tried the arc in hydrogen .
The gas was oblained as pure .
but contained hydrocarbons as au impurity , possibly from having been compressed into a cylinder which had previously been charged with coal-gas .
The arc in hydrogen at atmospheric pressures was a long , thin flame , moved far up the bons as possible ; especially on the negative carbon it walked up a cm . .
the cone .
It went so far that it fuzed the copper ring that held the negative carbon , and we to replace it by an iron wire lashing .
It was very unsteady , and rees of soot and a deposit of hard graphitic carbon formed on this positive carbon as if there were electrolysis of the hydrocarbon , and carbon were electro-negative compared with ogen .
This gTowth took place all round the crater , while there was no tendency for any- to grow on the negative carbon .
The arc was only 5\mdash ; 6 mm. wide , and sometimes over 2 cm .
fhere was a green .
flame , with a bright red line not a mm. down t , he middle of it .
Where it impinged on the negative carbon was a bright red flamc from the middle of the bright spot on the carbon .
The outer gl.eenish part seemed to give much the same pectrum as green cone in a Bunsen burner , while the red flame and line was undoubtedly lowing hydrogen .
As we saw the and ydrogen lines very distinctly , the red line being dazzlingly bright and not nearly so wide as in a coil spark at atmospheric pressure whenever the image of the red part of the arc was thrown 011 tho slit of the spectroscope , the appearance was quite like that of a solar promineuce .
rrbe end of the positive carbon was pitted into a number of craters .
W. E. Wilson and G. F. Fitzgerald .
as the arc was very nnsteady , and when the pressure was raised it was almost impossible to keep an arc going , partly becanse the arc broke when it was elongated the least bit , and partly because a complete lantern of soot trees grew all round the crater , and seemed to short-circuit the arc from time to time .
The arc being very unsteady , no satisfactory reading of the voltage and current was possible .
At from 60 to 801bs .
pressure the voltage varied from 60\mdash ; 80 , and the amperes kept continually varying from 15\mdash ; 20 . .
with 20 amperes the volts varied from 50\mdash ; 60 .
The crater was not well developed , so that the adiation observation , even at low pressures , was llot very satisfactory , while at high pressurss the arc was too short to see into the crater at all , and the lantern of soot trees hid considsrable lengb , 3 or 4 mm. of the negative carbon besides .
The radiomicrometer gave 440 divisions with a good arc in air , and.380 with the moderately good crater in hydrogen .
But this difference is no greater than would often occur with a good and moderately good.crater , so that there is not any proof of a difference of temperature due to cooling power of hydrogen .
These experiments showed us that it was quite hopeless to get any measures of radiation under pressure with hydrogen .
We finally tried an atmosphere of carbon dioxide .
We used a cylinder of liquid , which was connected to our arc box by a copper tube and stop valve .
The arc burned fairly well in this gas , and , except for the difficulty of getting a sufficiently long arc at pressures above , some pretty satisfactory measures of radiation were obtained .
We found that whenever the pressure was suddenly reduced , there was a fog formed in the box , which cut off the light enormously .
Also by looking down the steel tube , which is closed at its end by a lens , we could see powerful convection currents in the gas which scattered a lot of light .
At high pressure ths refraction due to these currsnts prevented any sort of an image of the crater being formed while the pressure was varying .
While the pressure was steady a good image could be formed .
This tube is nearly 3 .
in ]ength , and only .
in bore , and it would naturally take time for the gas to settle down throughout its length .
We propose to have this tube removed , and the aperture in the box closed by a strong piece of plain glass , and to form an image of the carbons by a lens placed at a suitable distance outside .
This we expect will remove the difficulty arising from these convection cnrrents .
The result of all these experiments so far is that it would require more evidence than we have been able to get , to affirm th either the temperature of the crater of the arc is raised or ]owered by pressure .
We got some very concordant observations , which showed the temperature to be lowered with pressure , and in which at the time we could see no evidence of absorption by fog , but then , at other of on Temperature of Crater Electric rc .
381 times , there was undoubtedly absorption from this cause .
We certainly got no evidence that there is any appreciable increase of temperature .
When the arc was started in the gas at a low and then the pressure was raised , the radiation at the low pressure was greater than at a ; but when the arc was started first in the gas at hi .
pressure , and then the pressure reduced , the radiation was rathcr hjghe ] in the gas at high pressure .
From all this we concluded that the greater part of the differences were observing were due to the absorption of the light in the long tube already mentioned , increased the longer the was kept burning , and was probably eater at high than at low pressures .
The best observations were made with variations of pressure from 15 up to .
per sq .
in .
, and there seems very little evidence of much change of l.adiation with change of from 1 up to between 6 and atmos .
The whole question is surrounded with great difficulty .
If the rbon be re lly in equilibrium with its own vapour at the temperature of the crater and at the pressure of the sir ounding a some relation must exist between the change in pressure and change in temperature of the clater .
If we knew the latent heat of volatilisatio1l of carbon , we should be able to calculate the change of temperature from the well-known hermodynamic mula can be approximately determined on the that the absolute atuI e of the Cl.ater is fifteen times the abso1 temperature of the freezing point , i.e. , 3800 .
We thus get for gaseous carbon this tempel.ature .
For 1 , so that Hence , unless the latent heat of carbon be great compared with that of othel substances , will be .
If bo as as the Iatent heat of vaporisation of carbon given by Trouton'f ; law , i.e. , about 4000 , or would be about , and would bo C. for each atmosphere , and a change of of about 18 atmos .
would aise the temperature of the crater to estimated .
the sun .
ponding increase of adiatiou would be very , for the iation arieb , at Ieast approximately , as the fourth power of the absolute .
This would lead one to expect that the radiation would be nearly doubled for each 4 atmos .
added .
Such an as , certainly does not take place , so that we may conclude thac ither the temperature of the crater is not that of boiling carbon , 38 of Pressure on of Crater of Arc. or else that the latent heat of volatilisation of carbon is very considerably greater than that calculated from Trouton 's law .
Even thoug.h this latent heat were as great as the heat of combnstion of to , i.e. , 7770 , there would be an increase of about 70 per cent. in the radiation for an increased pressure of 6 atmos .
Such an enormous latent heat is unprecedented , and yet our experiments would , almost certainly , have shown such an increased radiation as this .
So far , therefore , the experiments throw considerable doubt on the probability that it is .
the boiling point of cal.bon that determines the temperature of the crater .
It might be questioned whether there is enough in the curl'ent to do all this work , but upon an extravagant estimate of the amount of rbon volatilised in the cratsr , it appears that thel.e is more than a hundred times as much energy supplied by the curre1lt as would be required for volatilising the cat.bon , even though its latent heat were as great as the heat of combustion of There is another considerable difficulty in the theory of the temperature of the cratel being that of boiling carbon arising from the slowness of evaporation .
The crater on mercury is , but then it volatilises with immense rapidity and the supply of energy by the current being more than 100 times that required merely for evaporation , there seems very little reason why even a considerable difference in Iatent heat should make any sensible difference in the rate of evaporation of mercury and cal.bon , especially as , the same temperature , the diffusion of vapour is nearly three times as fast as that of mercury vapour and the temperature immensely higher .
We would , in conclusion , call attention to a cause of opacity in the solar atmosphere that is illustrated by the effect of convection currents the long tube we were observing at high pressures ; these convection currents behaved just like snow , or any other finely divided transparent body immersed in another of diiferent refractive index .
Light trying to get through is reflected backwards and forwards in every direction , until most of it gets back by the way it came .
The consequence was that even the electric light was unable to penetrate the tube at high pressure , when these convection currents were active .
The only light that came out of the tube was the feeble light outside , which was returned to us by reflection at the surfaces of these convection currents .
In a similar manner we conceive that any part of the solar atmosphere which is at a high pressure , and where convection currents , or currents of diiferent kinds of materials , are active , would reflect back to the sun any radiations coming from below , and reflect to us ouly the feeble radiations coming from interplanetary space .
In his paper on " " The Physical Constitution of ths Sun and Stars\ldquo ; ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc No. 105 , 1868 ) , Dr. Stony ] attention to an action of this kind that might be due to clouds of transparent Influence of rature Electrotonic Cnrrents .
} material , like clouds of on the earth , but view of the high solar temperature it seems nprobable that any body , except , pel.haps , carbon , could exist iu any condition than the gaseous state in the solar atmosphere ; so that it seems more probable that sun-spots are due , at least partly , to reflection by convection streams of rather than by clonds of tl.ansparent solid or liquid rticles .
: ' Influence of Alterations of emperature upon the ElectroCurrents of lIedullated Nelve.\ldquo ; * By D. , F.R.S. Received Decelnbcr 14.\mdash ; Read 1896 .
effects of a of temperatul.e upon electrotonic ents may be briefly stated as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
The electrotonic currents , A nnd , are tenlporarily diminished or abolished at about 2 .
At about of a rising the current is increased without llotable alteration actual diminution of the A curl.ent .
3 .
On returning from the normal tcmpel ture , the A and currents reappear .
is increased and A is diminished , so that the previous inequality is diminished , or actually revel.sed to K. In all the quotient is diminished ; in some cases it actually falls below unity .
[ The negative variation is tempol.al.ily abolished at positive gives place to a in consequence of a aised temperature to The above three statements are illustrated by Experiments 236 2322 , and , from the examination of their records , it will be cleal that there is here no question of the effects being due to alterations of resistance .
A and tested for alternately , and the deflection by volt is taken at intervals of about ten minutes .
[ Other examples of a similar acter aiven in the 'Proceedings of the Physiological Society ' for November , 1896 , and a record of temporary diminution of the negative variation is given in fig. Hixperiment 777 ) , ' Phil. Trans 1897 .
] In all the experiments refcrred to in communication , polarising cullent is by one Leclanche cell ( the resistance in its circuit being bout 100,000 ohms ) .
The nerve lies upon four unpolarisable odes iixed of 12 mm. , scrving as leading-in electrodes to the ] ) odes to the electrotonic curlent .
On the galvanometer records , ] anelectro- tonic dellection A reads upwards , } katelectrotonic deflection reads downwards ; after-anelectrotonic and -katelectrotonic deflections and K respectively downwards and upwards ( there being under the of experiment no marked hd.omous after-katelectrotonic deflection ) .

