]\gt ; General Equations for the lisation of Dibasic Acids .
535 case of these two metals .
In this connection it is interesting to notice that the effect of hydrogen on the constant for the positive emission from platinum is opposite to that for the negative emission for this metal , and is in the same sense as that for the ative emission from tungsten .
These differences are to be expected if it is a question of sign of dissolved or adsorbed ions .
In concluding , the wliter ventures to hope that the considerations have been forward will help to introduce some degree of orderliness into the experimental values of the elmission constants , which , it must be admitted , are at present somewhat incoherent .
Equations for the lisation of their Use to the of Dilute Carbonate Solutio By E. ( Communicated by Prof. F. G. Donnan , F.R.S. Received May 26 , 1915 .
) The numerous equations which have been proposed to express the equilibrium of acids , bases , salts , and their ions are generally convenient to appl since in each particular case different simplifying assumptions can be made .
The subject has now reached a stage , however , at which these can be replaced by equations of a more general nature .
Practically the most important cases are those of the mono-and poly-basic acids combined with strong monacid bases , which furnish the bulk of those mixtures of balanced hydrion concentration which are used in physiological chemistry and also effect the physical ulation of the physiological fluid , themselves .
The relation between the stage of neutralisation and the hydrion concentration of these acids is such that , usually , only two dissociation constants need to be considered .
Thus the constants of a tribasic acid , such as orthophosphoric , are each one of a higher order of magnitude than that which precedes it , and at the stage of neutralisation at which the third constant begins to have an effect , that of the first is inappreciable .
The general equation for a weak dibasic acid will alone be considered in what follows .
This will dissociate in the steps\mdash ; , ( ) .
If the total acid concentration is , then the ionised part is , etc. , and the number of equivalents of ionised acid are equal to the added base .
} Hence And the expression above may be transformed into .
( 1 ) This formula does not give quite accurate results when the total concentration is , and especially at alkalinities .
It fails altogether at very low concentrations .
In order to include these cases also , an extension may be made of the method applied by the author to the correction of the third dissociation constant of orthophosphoric acid .
The ratio of equivalents alkali to .
of acid is equal to NaHA)NaOH ) ( 2 ) Also NaHA NaOH ) in which now stand for the fractions dissociated , not of the total acid , but of the primary and secondary salt .
By the help of these , and of the ionic equations ( HA ' ) , ( HA ' ) , 'Die Wasserstoffionen Konzentration , ' p. 30 .
the terms of equation ( above , except t the May be transformed into terms containing either NaHA ) alone or lone .
By the first method By the second method Or dividing through by NaHA ) , or If the third terms of the numerators are omitted , and the simplifying assumptions of p. 536 are introduced , it may easily be shown that either of these equations becomes identical withr the transformed lfichaelis ' equation ( 1 ) .
If the equations and are used as they stand , the former is suitable for solutions containing only small proportions of alkali , the latter solutions containing small proportions of acid .
The two give identical results for solutions containing moderate proportions both of HA ' and of If the total concentration is moderate , and the third terms may be obtained with sufficient accuracy from the atnounts of acid and alkali taken .
Dilute Solutions.\mdash ; At higher dilutions , the hydrolysis appreciably affects the amounts of primary and secondary salt .
The third terms of the numerators must then be expressed differently .
Let , as before , be the total concentration and its ions .
Then either or will be vanishingly small in comparison to the other two forms of combination .
Which form may be neglected is easily to be determined by means of the and equations on p. 536 combined with the value of chosen .
In the more acid solntions .
And , since ionisation is practically complete , NaHA ) .
Mr. E. B. R. Prideaux .
Equations for Or , substituting for its value , it follows that NaHA ) Similarly , it may be shown that in the more alkaline solutions The complete equations for high dilutions become and These equations are the quantitative expression of the fact that extreme dilution increases the amount of alkali required to produce a given value of ( OH ' ) .
The third term of the numerator is a measure of the extent to which the hydrion concentration of a given partly neutralised ) acid varies with the dilution .
Application to Carbonic Acid.\mdash ; The carbonate equilibrium is the chief physical agent which regulates ) hydrion concentration , not only of fluids , but also of the hard waters , fresh and salt , the acidity of which has so intimate a connection with the growth of plaukton and other simple organisms .
This acidity may in most cases be directly determined , but the determination is sometimes inconvenient .
In an important research , e.g. by Bronsted and Lund* on the physical and biological conditions of Danish lakes , the amount of and of has been determined in each case , but not the acidity of the water .
The use of the equations will , it is hoped , enable the atum to be supplied in such as these .
The acidities of carbonic acid at different stages of neutralisation as determined by Auerbach and Pick and others , may now be compared with those calculated by the different formulae given above , using Walker and Cormack , and , Shields , Koelichen , McCoy , Auerbach and Pick ( loc. cit Experimental Values at mol .
per litre .
1.60 9 .
10.35 ll ll69 'Chem .
Phys. Untel.suchungen der Danischen Gewasser , ' 1912 .
' Arb .
aus .
Kais .
Gesundheitsamt , ' vol. 38 , ( 4 ) , p. 562 ( 1912 ) .
the Neutralisation of sic The first Table given below has been calculated from formulae and p. 537 , using and in a molar solution .
The second Table is from the simplified formula 1 , p. 536 .
The two almost identical results in the middle of the neutralisation curve at .
But in the more alkaline solutions the introduction of the third term makes a considerable difference .
Thus by interpolation on the curves , from the , eneral formula , and from the simplified formula at .
The former thus gives a better reement with the experimental values of Auerbach at than the latter .
Table I. ( H ) Table II .
Dilute Carbonate Solutions.\mdash ; The calculation of the acidity of solutions , of which the total concentrations are lower than those of , etc. , in presence of the specified amounts of , are , of course , equally applicable to carbonates of the calcium group as to those of the sodium roup .
There are a few experimental values of the of hard waters which will serve to check the accuracy of the values in Tables III and , which are based equations and 4 Table III .
mol .
per litre .
Table In a molar solution of Auerbach loc. found The solubility of ( calcite ) is , according to Schloesing*and Kohlrausch 'Comptes Rendus , ' vols .
74 , 75 and 90 ( 1872 and VOL. XCL\mdash ; A. second in conjunction with Mr. J. Twomey .
The nity of filtered solution ( without chloride ) was also measured by the colorimetric method ( using phenolphthalein ) , both in deep Nessler glasses and in a Donnan colorimeter .
The comparison solution was an alkaline phosphate of which .
The mean of five measurements the carbonate solution An unsteadiness in the results is to be expected , both on account of the slowness of the eneous equilibrium , and on account of the extreme sensitiveness of the alkalinity to traces of in this part of the curve , which is accentuated by the dilution .
A discrepancy between the observed and calculated alkalinities of sodium acetate has accounted for by Walpole on similar grounds .
S The acid part of the curve may be tested by the help of the measurements of Walker and Kay Waters of diHerent ' : degrees of hardness\ldquo ; made from standard lime-watel were brought into equilibrium with the of the air , and the acidities were measured by a colorimetric ethod : ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ation orbonntc e molecules ( H ) .
'Zeitsch . .
phys .
' vols .
12 , 44 , 64 ( 1893-1903 ) .
' J. Amel .
Chem. Soc vol. 33 , p. 468 ( 1911 ) .
'Phil .
Mag I , p. 958 ( 1912 ) .
S 'Trans .
Chem. Soc vol. 105 , pp. 2502 , ( 1914 ) .
'J .
Soc. Chem. vol. 31 , p. 1014 ( 1912 ) .
the Neutratisation of Acids .
541 These figures suffice for a calculation of the degree of neutralisation , for the total alkali ( in equivalents ) is and the same figure represents the bicarbonate ion concentration , since it can be shown that the fraction of original forming is ible at the hydrion and total concentrations given .
The excess of carbonic acid , should be that which is in equilibrium with the pressure of the air , i.e. by and Bock 's results It may , however , be derived with more certainty from the constant of the eneous equilibrium This gives in the first case and in the second case Introducing these values , the ratio is found to be in the first case and in the second case The values of the ratio from the general equation at the given acidities and , are and respectively .
If , however is calculated from the absorption coefficient of the gas-liquid equilibrium as above , the calculated value of the second case falls right off the The observation that calculated from the homogeneous is slightly greater than calculated from the heterogeneous equilibriu1ll has been made by several investigators and has not yet been adequately explained .
It is clear from all the evidence has come under the author 's view that the data of the eneous equilibria , i.e. pressure of and solubility of , can only be used with great caution to calculate by means of the and solubility product ) which are supposed to be in eqnilibrium with the gas and solid phase respectively .
On other hand , the analytical data , total concentration of and of alkali in a homogeneous solution , can be so used with considerable confidence .
easiest of employing the equations is evidently to plot a section of the curve corresponding to the known carbonic acid concentration , choosing values of above and below that which is to be expected .
The from of found then gives the correct figure .
Volatihsation of Extremely Deposits .
543 NOTES ON DIAGRAM .
Ordinates .
Left-hand numbers refer to upper curves , right-hand to lower .
Abscissoe ratio alkali to acid .
Upper numbers refer to upper curves , lower numbers to lower curves .
Upper Curves .
plain line\mdash ; values calculated by formulae and at and dotted alues calculated by formula 1 Auerbach 's values at oken \mdash ; values calculated by formulae and Curves\mdash ; Dilute carbonate 011 larger scale .
plain line\mdash ; values at broken line\mdash ; values at experimental values as quoted .
third points in Tables I and II have been erroneously plotted as of Extremely Radioactive Deposits .
By A. B. WOOD , M.Sc .
, Oliver Fellow and Assistant Lecturer in Physics , University of Liverpool .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received July 1 , 1915 .
) Introduction .
Within the last few years papers dealing with the volatilisation of radioactive substances have been published by various authors .
The principal aims of the experiments described in these papers may be classified under three heads:\mdash ; ( a ) To determine the telnperatures of volatilisation of the various members of the active deposits of radium , thorium , and actinium ; in some cases with a view to the assification of these substances in the periodic system .
( b ) To prove that these extremely small quantities of matter form definite chemical compounds in a manner similar to that of the commoner elements .
( c ) To separate the various members of the series from one another .
Other interesting results , throw light on the phenomena of volatilisation , have also been reported , but these have always formed a subsidiary part of the researches described .
Makower* determined the * Makower , Manch .
Lit. and Phil. Soc vol. 53 , Part II 1909 ) , and 'Le Radium , ' vol. 6 , p. .

