MS79 .
] Mr. J. B. Hannay .
On Microrheometer .
279 III .
The change of rotation of a solution of lactin can be expressed '"%i a mathematical equation .
IV .
When the specific rotation 64'*8 is reached , the law of change ust be expressed by a different equation .
V. The initial solubility of lactin is 1 part lactin in 10*64 parts ater .
VI .
The permanent solubility is 1 part lactin in 3*23 parts water .
V. " On the Microrheometer .
" By J. B. Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. , lately Assistant Lecturer on Chemistry in the Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by H. E. Roscoe , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the Owens College , Manchester .
Received December 11 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author reviews the work done by chemists and He physicists in determining the relation between the chemical composi-a I lion of a liquid and its rate of flow through a capillary tube .
Poiseui lie * \#171 ; oa iscertained , in a very accurate manner , all the physical laws relating kto co the rate of flow , as regulated by temperature , pressure , and dimen-iNri sions of the tube ; but on examining saline solutions he could make on nothing of *the numbers presented , because he used percentage solutions Tilt instead of solutions proportional to the equivalent of the body dissolved , c\#174 ; Graham , f noticing that Poiseuille had discovered a hydrate of alcohol by running various mixtures of alcohol and water through the tube , .tin !
examined mixtures of the various acids with water , and found that the ml hydration proceeded by distinct steps of multiple proportions .
Several Sml others , notably Guerout , J have since worked on the same subject , but jtrj as they have only worked on organic liquids , and have done all the pail rates at the same temperature , the results throw no light on the phe-pjt nomena .
Thus water runs about five times as quickly at 100 ' as at .
tii 0 ' ; and in a series of alcohols , such as Guerout experimented upon , jj the differences between their boiling points were very great , so that , ji their vapour tensions or molecular mobilities being quite incomparable , jt while at the same temperature , the experiments do not admit of any jj| real interpretation .
The author reserves the organic part of the investigation , which requires the determination of vapour tensions , till a future paper , and in the present deals with saline solutions .
The phenomenon of the flow of liquids through capillary tubes has * " Ann. de Chim .
et de Physique , " [ 3 ] , t. yii , 50 .
t " Phil. Trans. , " 1861 , p. 373 .
J " Comptes rendus , " lxxix , p. 1201 ; lxxxi , p. 1025 .
280 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
On Microrheometer .
[ Jan. 2 been called in this country transpiration , while in other countries distinct name has been adopted ; and as the English word is alreai in use in French for another purpose , and properly applies to gas ( the laws relating to which are quite different ) , the author propos to use for liquids the term " Microrheosis , " from fiucpo ?
and pew , t instrument being called the microrheometer .
The form of apparat which the author finally adopted is figured in the paper , and is arranged that when the liquid is introduced , as many experiments i may be desired may be tried , and the pressure and temperature , 1 well as the atmosphere in which the experiment is conducted , may 1 varied , while the thermometer indicating the temperature is at tl mean point of the system .
The author gives a curve for water fro 0 ' to 100 ' , the differences of rate being smaller as the temperatu : rises .
Various salts are then examined , being dissolved to form " normal solutions ; but as the solubility of some salts is too low for such soli tions , the effect of the amount of salts dissolved is determined .
Tb is found to be directly proportional to the amount of salt in solutioi Values for many salts in solution are then given , each number bein the mean of ten experiments , and the probable error of the mean i calculated in each case .
The conclusions arrived at are these .
Ti rate of flow does not depend on any of the " mechanical " features \lt ; the salt , such as crystalline form , specific volume , solubility , \amp ; c. ; bn upon the mass of the elements forming the substance and the amour of energy expended in its formation .
Each element has a value of ii own , which is continued in all its compounds .
Thus all the salts c potassium and sodium formed by the same acids have a constant diffe rence .
In like manner each metalloid and acid radicle has a valu which is continued in all its combinations .
Then the greater the com bining value of an element the quicker is its microrheosis ; thu potassium has a higher rate than sodium , barium than strontium strontium than calcium , and so on .
The microrheosis also varies wit !
the amount of energy in the compound ; thus nitrates stand highest as they contain most energy ; then chlorides ; and , lastly , sulphates which are exhausted compounds .
The instrument , bringing to light as it does the fundamental rela tions of combining weight and energy in chemical action , will b( of the utmost importance in chemical physics , as by its use , no !
only will the amount of energy evolved in reactions be determined , bui the mass combined ; or , in other words , the chemical equivalent of th( elements involved will be found .

