Remarks on the Parallax of a Lyrw .
By J. Brinkley , D.D. F.R.S. 8 ; c. Andrews Professor of Astronomy in the University of Dublin .
Read March 11 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 471.J The author 's object in this paper is principally to form a correct estimate of the absolute and relative degrees of accuracy of the instruments at Dublin and at Greenwich .
He first considers the difference of parallax between y Draconis and a Lyrse , and secondly , the absolute parallax of a Lyrwe .
He exhibits , in a table , the whole of the results of 337 observations of Mr. Pond for the intercepted arc , reduced to the 1st of January 1815 , chiefly by Mr. Pond 's own coymputations .
From 46 observations made in the year 1812 , he deduces 0"'28 for the coefficient of the effect of parallax ; and from such of his observations as were made in the same day , the number deduced is 01 ' 54 .
In 1813 there is a difference of half a second between the mean of 22 observations in June and July , and of 17 in August ; hence Dr. Brinkley was led to examine the observations of this year alone , and he found that 61 of them , from June to December , as reduced by Mr. Pond , gave 0"`42 for the coefficient of parallax ; and omitting the last five days of observation 0"'89 , which is little less than the result of his own researches .
On the other hand , when five double observations , in January and February 1814 , were added to these 61 , they reduced the result for the coefficient to 0 ' " 18 ; so that the discordancies seem to be too great to enable us to place any reliance on the conclusions respecting the actual magnitude of the annual parallax .
A similar fluctuation is observable in the results obtained for the following years ; and though it might , on the whole , be inferred that the parallax is about three fourths as great as that which the author has assigned from his own observations , yet he contents himself with concluding that the mural circle of Greenwich has not sufficiently proved the identity of the distance of the two stars in summer and winter , within one tenth of a second ; but , on the contrary , that it shows the parallax of a Lyrme to be half a second greater than that of y Draconis .
In 1815 the first 15 summer observations , compared with the first 13 in November , give a parallax of + 0 " ' 72 ; the next 16 in summer , compared with the next 16 in winter , give a negative parallax of O'"58 ; a comparison which sufficiently proves the imperfection of the observations , depending probably on an unsteadiness in the instrument .
In the whole five years , the mean of all the observations in August exceeds the mean of July by 0'"51 , a discordance which parallax would diminish but in an inconsiderable degree .
The author pursues a similar train of argument in the second part of the inquiry , relating to the absolute parallax of a Lyrse .
While the circle at Dublin , he observes , made from a mean of several years the double zenith distance of this star 3 " greater in the beginning of December than in the beginning of August , that of Greenwich shows no difference whatever in the double altitude observed by reflection in summer and winter .
There are , however , differences of about four seconds in the difference of altitude of a Lyrae and the pole star , as determined in different years by the same instrument ; and Dr. Brinkley observes , that an unsteadiness , amounting to 15 " or 20 " , is discoverable in the comparative results of the different microscopes ; whence he infers that there must be an uncertainty , amounting to many tenths of a second in the mean .
The coefficients of aberration and of solar nutation , which come out 201 " 35 and 0 " 51 , are certainly true to one fourth or one tenth of a second , as deduced from the observations of Dublin ; the author thinks it fair , therefore , to infer that 1 " 14 , the coefficient for annual parallax for a Lyrse , is correct nearly in the same proportion .
Nor are there any changes from season that could produce the appearance of regular parallax of all the stars of which it has been inferred ; and it is very improbable that any error of the instrument could have given a parallax to a Lyrae , and left the pole star completely free from it .
The last of the tables shows the consistency of the circle of Dublin in the places of the stars , as determined by it after the interval of a considerable number of years , without any such tendency to the south as is supposed to have been observed at Greenwich .

