On a Dorsal dermal Spine of the Hylceosaurus , recently discovered in the Strata of Tilgate Forest .
By GIDEON ALGERNON MANTELL , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , Vice-President of the Geological Society , $jc .
Received June 13 , -Read June 13 , 1850 .
IN the highly interesting and unique specimen of part of the skeleton of the Hyleeosaurus discovered by me in 1832 , and now preserved in the Gallery of Organic Remains of the British Museum , the most striking peculiarity is a series of large thin angular processes extending nearly parallel with the left side of the vertebral column .
These bones vary in length from 4 to 17 inches , and in form from a somewhat obtuse to an isosceles triangle : there are six or seven in a connected line , and several others detached and dispersed in the block .
They terminate distally in a blunt apex , and are expanded at the base in the antero-posterior diameter , but unfortunately in every instance the proximal end is so imperfect that their mode of attachment to the other parts of the skeleton is not clearly demonstrable .
From the general resemblance of these processes to the dermal bones imbedded in the surrounding stone , I was induced to consider them as the remains of a dorsal crest formed by a series of erect dermal plates or spines , which extended along the back of the Hylaeosaurus , in the same manner as the cartilaginous scaly dorsal fringe in the Iguana ; an opinion which appeared to be corroborated by some detached specimens of a similar character that were subsequently discovered* .
Professor OWEN , however , whilst admitting the probability of that suggestion , considered it more likely that the bones in question were abdominal ribs , remarking that " the want of symmetry , and the difference in size and form , in the four succeeding spine-shaped plates , agreed better with the costal than with the dermal hypothesist .
" Mr. BRODERIP and other naturalists have regarded this opinion of Professor OWEN as conclusive+ .
For reasons fully stated in my former memoirs on the Wealden Reptiles , it appeared to me highly improbable that these spines could have belonged to the costal system .
In 1848 I had an opportunity , for the first time , of making sections of a specimen for microscopical examination , and I then found the internal structure to be identical with that of the dermal scutes of the Hylaeosaurus , presenting ' long , straight , spicular fibres , decussating each other in all directions , and representing , as it seems , the ossified ligamentous fibres of the original corium* .
" At length , after the lapse of eighteen years , I have obtained one of these spines in which the proximal end or base is sufficiently entire to show the nature of its connection with the body of the reptile .
This specimen ( for which I am indebted to the liberality of Mr. PETER FULLER of Lewes ) was found a few weeks since in the same quarry in Tilgate Forest , whence the first discovered skeleton of the Hylaeosaurus was obtained ; and there is reason to conclude that it may have belonged to the same individual , for several detached dermal scutes and spines of corresponding size and character , have from time to time been found in the sandstone near the spot .
This spine , if petfect , would be 15 inches in length ; its base or proximal end is of an elliptical form , with a longitudinal median depression , which is bordered by a gentle rounded eminence ; the articulating surface has the corrugated aspect that characterizes the ossified derrnal scutes of the Hylaeosaurus ; and a comparison of the base of this spine with that of the unquestionable dertnal bones , confirms the correctness of my original interpretation of the nature of these remarkable processes .
In the accompanying drawings the characters of the original are sufficiently defined , to render further description unnecessary .
This fact is of considerable interest , since it demonstrates in the dermal system of the extinct colossal Saurians of the secondary geological aras , a similar exaggerated development to that which prevails in the living diminutive representatives ; but while in the existing Lizards the dermal appendages are flexible and cartilaginous , in the fossil reptiles they are rigid osseous spines ; the difference arising from the ossification of the ligamentous fibres of the coriumr in the dermal bones and spines of the Hylaeosaurus .
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATE .
PLATE XXVII .
Fig. 1 .
Lateral view of the dorsal dermal spine of the Hylaeosaurus ; reduced to onehalf linear .
Fig. 2 .
View of the articulating surface of the base .
Fig. 3 .
MAagnified view of a portion of the internal structure , showing the decussating ossified fibres of the corium , the bone-cells , and the Havei'sian canals , as exposed in a section seen by transmitted light .
Chester Square , Pimlico , June 1850 .

