" Chemical Researches on the Nature of Wax .
" By Benjamin Collins Brodie , Esq. Communicated by Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie , Bart. , F.R.S. It is known that bees'-wax is separable , by means of boiling water , into two portions : to the one , which is more soluble in alcohol than the other portion , the name of Cerin has been given : the residuary portion , which does not dissolve , has been termed Mycicin .
In this paper the author gives an account of his investigation of the properties of the former of these substances , namely Cerin .
'I'his substance has been represented by certain chemists in France , M. Lewy and M. Gerhardt , as being convertible by oxidation into the stearic acid , and as being a substance which stands with respect to that acid in the remarkable relation of an aldehyde .
These views the author believes are incorrect ; and he states that no pure chemical substance was procured by these chemists from cerin , and that the substance of which the greater part of the cerin consists is no aldehyde , but a hydrated acid , existing as such in bees'-wax .
The acid is best prepared by precipitation from the alcoholic solution of the cerin by an alcoholic solution of acetate of lead , and subsequent separation and precipitation of the acid by methods described in the present paper .
When purified , the acid is a white brittle body , of a crystalline appearance , melting at from 79 ?
to 80 ?
C. The formula of the acid is C ; , H54 04 , a formula which was determined by the analysis of the silver salt having the constitution C54 H53 0O + AgO , and of the compound ether C58 H1s 04 = C54 H.3 03 + C4 15 0 .
The acid is volatile : it was analysed after distillation ; and it was also procured from the wax itself in a pure state by simple processes of crystallization .
To this acid the author gives the name of Cerotic acid .
By the action of chlorine , the wax acid is converted into a substance having all the appearance of a gum-resin ; a change analogous to which may be effected in various other wax substances examined by the author .
It has still the characters of an acid , and has the formula Cl &lt; { , 014 , a formula which is confirmed by that of the ct46 compound ether C58 { CH46 04 .
The analyses of these substances are given .
When distilled in a pure state , the cerotic acid is volatile .
When mixed with other waxy matters , however , it passes by distillation entirely into volatile oils , a circumstance which accounts for the fact that it has never been dissolved in the wax distillate .
By precipitating a weighed quantity of wax by acetate of lead , the quantity per cent. of the cerotic acid in the bees'-wax , namely 22 , was determined .
This acid was present in all the European bees'-wax examined by the author ; but suspecting that its quantity might vary in other instances , he procured bees'-wax from Ceylon , formed under different conditions of climate and vegetation , and found on examination that there was a total absence of the acid in that specimen .
The author draws attention to this curious variation in the nature of an animal secretion under different conditions of life , a variation of which we have another example in that of the volatile acid of butter , discovered by Leich ; namely , that the butyric and caproic acid of one season were , in another , replaced by vaccinic acid , differing from the former acids in the amount of oxygen alone .

