1870 .
] Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
73 simple organization , approximating somewhat closely to that of the ovules of Juniper us , Callitris , and Welwitschia .
Some small seeds , which appear to be identical with the Cardiocarpum tenellum of Dawson , found in great numbers on slabs of shale by Mr. John Smith , of Kilwinning , in Ayrshire , are described .
They were found in the upper Coal-measures near Stonehouse in Lanarkshire .
The last form noticed is a very curious winged seed from the uppermost Coal-measures of Ardwick , at Manchester , and which appears to have been a double seed , resembling in general form the samara of an ash .
It belongs to Brongniart 's genus Polypterospermum .
The fact that large numbers of seeds of unmistakable flowering plants exhibit very close resemblance to the ovules of G-ymnospermous seeds is a very important one .
Prof. Newberry has obtained such seeds in America ; M. Grand-Eury has done the same thing in Prance ; and it now appears that , though attention has but very recently been drawn to the existence of the smaller forms now described in the British Coal-measures , the discovery of a considerable variety has already rewarded the researches of the author and his auxiliary friends .
There is no doubt that further research will materially increase that number .
The question naturally arises , where are the Gymnospermous plants to which these seeds belonged ?
Finding the latter in the thin " upper-foot " coal-seam suggests that other remains of their parent stems should also be found there .
The Dadoxylous are the only ones which exhibit any probability of such relationship .
But these have chiefly been found in the marine Ganister bed , which underlies the upper-foot coal from which the majority of the seeds have been derived , indicating that the Dadoxylons grew apart from the Calamites and Lycopods abounding in the coal side by side with the seeds .
Time alone can solve these problems , as well as others relating to the true homologies of some of the structures contained within these seeds .
V. " On Stratified Discharges.\#151 ; II .
Observations with a Revolving Mirror .
" By William Spottiswoode , M.A. , Treas .
R.S. Received May 3 , 1876 .
In a paper published in Poggendorffs 'Annalen , ' Jubelband , p. 32 , A. Wiillner has described a series of observations made , by means of a revolving mirror , upon the discharge of a large induction-coil through tubes containing ordinary atmospheric air at various degrees of pressure .
When , as is generally the case with an induction-spark , the discharge occupies an appreciable interval of time , the image in the mirror appears spread out to a breadth proportional to the duration and to the velocity of rotation .
The successive phases of the phenomena then appear , as usual , arranged in successive positions , and may be studied separately , even when too rapid to be disentangled by the unassisted eye .
74 Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
[ May 18 , Wiillner 's observations appear to have been directed rather to the nature of the coil-discharge than to that of the stratifications ; and some of his principal conclusions are accordingly of the following kind , viz. that at low pressures , i. e. down to 1 millim. , when the discharge was stratified , the striae showed an intermittence of intensity indicating either a pulsation within the duration of the main discharge or a breaking up of the main into a series of partial discharges .
At greater pressures , e.g. at 26 millims. , when almost all trace of stratification was lost , this breaking up into partial discharges ( especially at the commencement ) was distinctly perceptible .
At yet greater pressures , i. e. from 40 millims. to 75 millims. , a cloudy kind of stratification showed itself ; but , excepting a bright flash at the outset , no appearance of partial discharge was visible .
The observations , which were at first directed to capillary tubes , were extended to tubes of various diameters , and also included the effect of a magnet on the discharge .
For some time prior to the publication of the volume in question I had been engaged upon a series of experiments very similar in their general disposition , but with a somewhat different object in view , viz. the character and behaviour of the striae ; and of these , together with some recent additions , I now propose to offer a short account to the Society .
My general instrumental arrangements appear to have been similar to those of Wiillner ; in fact they could hardly have been very different .
The tubes were attached to the coil in the usual way , and a contact-breaker of the ordinary form with its own electromagnet was in the first instance used .
By suitably adjusting the velocity of the mirror to the rapidity of the contact-breaker the image could be kept tolerably steady in the field of view .
In order to obtain greater steadiness a special contact-breaker was next devised .
This was mechanically connected with the spindle of the mirror , and so arranged as to break the current when the image was in the centre of the field of view .
The only point in this part of the apparatus which requires special notice is the fact that this contact-breaker , like all others , should be placed in close proximity to the condenser of the coil , otherwise a great loss of light is sustained .
For the last-mentioned form there was finally substituted a mercurial break ( successfully arranged by my assistant , Mr. Ward ) , the plunger of which works on a cam attached to the axle of the mirror ; so that the action of the contact-breaker is regulated by that of the mirror , instead of the reverse as in the former arrangement .
With the broader tubes a slit was used ; with the narrower this adjunct was less necessary ; while with capillary tubes , such as are used for spectrum-analysis , it could be dispensed with altogether .
In experiments for comparing the unstratified statical discharge with the stratified at the same pressure of gas within the tube , and for observing the transition from one to the other , a Leyden jar and a spark 1876 .
] Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
75 of air , the length of which could be regulated at pleasure , were introduced into the secondary circuit .
Striae as observed by the eye have been divided into two classes , viz. the flake-like and the flocculent or cloudy .
Of the former those produced in hydrogen-tubes may be taken as a type ; of the latter those produced in carbonic-acid tubes .
But upon examining some tubes especially selected for the purpose , it was found that , while to this apparent difference a real difference corresponds , a fundamental feature of the striae underlying both was brought out .
The feature in question wras this : that the striae , at whatever points produced , appear to have generally during the period of their existence a motion along the tube in a direction from the negative towards the positive terminal .
This motion , which I have called , for convenience , the proper motion of the striae , is for given circumstances of tube and current generally uniform ; and its variations in velocity are at all times confined within very narrow limits .
The proper motion in this sense appertains , strictly speaking , to the flake-like striae only .
The apparent proper motion of the flocculent striae is , on the contrary , variable not only in velocity , but also in direction ; and on further examination it turns out that the flocculent striae are themselves compounded of the flake-like , which latter I have on that account called elementary striae .
Elementary striae are in general produced at regular intervals along the tube .
The series extends from the positive terminal in the direction of the negative to a distance depending upon the actual circumstances of the tube and current .
The length of the column , and consequently the number of the striae , depends mainly upoji the resistance of the tube , the duration of the entire current , and , to a certain extent , upon the amount of the battery-surf ace exposed ; and in that sense upon the strength of the current .
The velocity of the proper motion , other circumstances being the same , depends upon the number of cells employed ; in other words , upon the electromotive force .
The appearances of the striae , however , their essential features , and the conclusions which may be drawn from them will be better apprehended by means of sketches , even though imperfect , than by mere description ; and I therefore subjoin a few examples .
Eig .
1 represents the appearance of ( in the mirror ) a carbonic-acid tube with the slit attached .
This tube , viewed by the eye , shows flakelike fluttering striae , with a slight tendency to flocculency near the head of the column .
The commencement of the discharge is at the right hand , and the negative terminal at the top .
The drawing fairly represents the appearance of the upper part or head of the column of striae during one complete coil-discharge .
When the battery-surface exposed is small , the whole consists of , first , three or four columns of striae of decreasing length , and afterwards of an almost unbroken field of striae .
Each of the initial columns is perfectly stratified ; and the same disposi76 Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
[ May 18 , tion of striae prevails throughout the entire discharge .
The striae which fill the main part of the field present a proper motion nearly uniform , but slightly diminishing towards the end .
These striae are for the most part unbroken , but are occasionally interrupted at apparently irregular intervals .
When the battery-surface is increased the elementary striae are more broken , and near the head of the column the interruptions occur as in the figure .
The separation of the earlier part of the discharged into striated columns divided by intervening rifts does not , with the exception of the first , extend far towards the positive terminal .
Nevertheless , even as far as the positive terminal itself , there seems at times to be a fuller development of discharge than is subsequently maintained .
Fig. 1 .
The first rift in the discharge , following the first outburst , is sometimes distinguishable even as far as the positive terminal ; and perhaps in those cases indicates a real cessation of the discharge .
This is corroborated by the fact that a similar interruption is then perceptible in the glow surrounding the negative terminal ; but after this the negative 1876 .
] Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
glow retains its unbroken character throughout the entire period of the discharge .
The stratified columns with their intervening rifts are sometimes reproduced towards the close of the discharge ; but this appears to take place only when the battery is in an unusual condition of energy , and disappears when , as in the bichromate battery , polarization of the plates rapidly takes place .
On these occasions especially , but also at other times , traces may be seen of the faint lines of light connecting the positive with the negative parts of the discharge mentioned by Wiillner in the paper quoted above .
Other tubes , when viewed by the eye , show flaky striae more or less difficult to distinguish from one another .
Observed in the mirror , they show much the same phenomena as the tube figured above , except that the striae are rather more crowded together and slightly more broken .
This is the case especially with ammonia-tubes , in some of which the striae are undistinguishable by the eye , and which accordingly give the impression of an unstratified column of light .
Tig .
2 represents the appearance in the mirror of another carbonic-acid tube with a current similar to that used in the former case .
Viewed by the eye it shows flocculent striae , each having a contour sharply defined towards the negative terminal , loosely defined towards the positive .
The following description of the phenomena , taken from my earlier notes , may now be regarded as a description of the apparent proper motion of the flocculent as distinguished from the elementary striae:\#151 ; " The discharge opens with a considerable rush , indicated by the bright line at the commencement .
There is no other indication of partial discharges .
Proper motion at first towards the negative , afterwards towards the positive terminal .
In this , as in other tubes giving striae of this kind , ripples may be observed on the curve of proper motion .
" So far my older notes ; but on closer examination , and when the battery-surface exposed is sufficiently reduced , the entire field is seen to be traversed by elementary striae having a normal proper motion .
When the battery-surface is gradually increased , the elementary striae , especially near the head of the column , have their duration shortened so as to leave dark intervals at regular stages in the column .
These successive short-lived elementary striae form a series of diagonal lines , each series of which traces a sketch of a flocculent stria .
As the surface is still further increased these diagonal lines appear more and more crowded together , until at last they blend into unbroken flocculent striae .
This compound nature and mode of formation may be taken as a general characteristic of the flocculent striae .
In some tubes it is more easily brought out , in others only with greater difficulty .
In some it can hardly be verified experimentally without a loss of light so great as to mask the phenomenon .
The apparent proper motion of the flocculent striae depends , as is easily seen , upon the position at which the elemen- 78 Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
[ May 18 , tary strise are replaced .
If they are replaced in the positions which their predecessors held , the flocculent striae will appear straight in the mirror ; if they are replaced successively nearer the positive terminal , the apparent proper motion will be in the normal direction ; if nearer the negative , it will be reversed .
Fig. 2 .
An ether-tube examined in the same way showed nearly the same features as the last .
The elementary striae were , however , not so easily separable ; and the flocculent striae were formed as usual at an earlier stage near the head of the column than near the foot of it .
In another carbonic-acid tube the proper motion of the flocculent striae was coincident in direction with that of the elementary ; and the latter were consequently more difficult to disentangle .
One point in this tube was particularly noticeable , viz. that as the column of flocculent striae retreated , so did the negative glow advance .
The two remained throughout the entire discharge the same distance apart .
Fig. 3 represents the discharge in a hydrogen-tube of conical form , 1876 .
] Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
79 the diameter of which varied from capillary size to ^ inch , the capillary end being at the bottom .
The positive terminal is at the top .
The principal interest of this tube consists in showing the influence of diameter upon the velocity of proper motion .
The wider the tube the Fig. 3 .
freer , it seems , the striae are to move .
The same fact may be observed by comparing tubes differing in diameter , but in other respects the same ; but the conical tube brings out the fact in the most striking manner .
Fig. 4 represents a chloroform-tube , in which a piece of cotton-wool had been inserted with a view of ascertaining whether any motion would be communicated to it by the current .
This proved to be the case ; but I do not attempt here to describe the phenomenon .
To the unassisted eye the discharge was extremely brilliant ; it passed in a column not quite straight , but in a writhing snake-like curve , with flaky striae at Fig. 4 .
80 Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
[ May 18 , intervals through its length .
When viewed in the mirror the striae were seen to spread themselves out with slight , but irregular , proper motion .
With an increased battery-surface , or with a greater number of cells , but more notably with the latter , not only were the striae lengthened , but from several of the long elementary striae shorter ones were thrown out nearly at right angles to the former .
These were of short duration , and had great proper motion .
The general appearance of these compound striae was that of branches of fir trees , the twigs of which represented the permanent striae , and the leaves the secondary .
Beside these , a large ( Geissler 's " hydrocarbon " ) tube was examined with a magnet the pole of which was placed near the head of the column ; and in order to trace more in detail the effect of the magnet , its strength was varied by raising or lowering the battery-plates .
The general character of the discharge without the magnet was very similar to that represented in fig. 1 .
On slightly lowering the plates of the magnet-battery the discharge spread itself over a greater breadth than before .
At the same time the elementary striae , which had for the most part been continuous , were now broken up into short lengths , presenting the first features of flocculent striae .
On further lowering the plates these flocculent striae became more and more developed until the whole field in the neighbourhood of the magnetic pole became filled with such striae .
It is well known that one effect of the magnetic field is to bring out striae in portions of tubes where no striae were visible before , and also that the striae so brought out present a flocculent appearance ; but the revolving mirror shows this fact in a more decisive manner .
Another effect of the magnetic field is to drive the discharge to one side of the tube in accordance with Ampere 's law\#151 ; in other words , to constrict the discharge .
In narrower tubes than the one here described , the constriction goes so far as to imitate the appearance of a capillary tube ; and this effect is borne out by the revolving mirror .
The intensification of the discharge and its concomitant phenomena within the range of the magnetic field are in accordance with the experiment of Faraday , wherein he showed the increased loudness of the report perceptible on breaking a current in between the poles of a magnet .
In a carbonic-acid tube ( Gassiot 's No. 454 ) I have succeeded in starting with a very weak current , capable of producing only elementary striae , and thence passing to the production of flocculent striae , either by strengthening the battery-current , or by inducing upon the existing current the action of a magnetic field .
The identification of the results of these two independent processes , especially when combined with the comparison made above of the effect of magnetism with that of narrowing the tube , can hardly fail to have some important signification in the ultimate theory of the striae .
Besides the tubes above mentioned many others were tried ; but these will probably suffice for the present purpose .
1876 .
] Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
The following are some of the general conclusions to which the foregoing experiments seem to lead :\#151 ; I. The thin flake-like striae , when sharp and distinct in their appearance , either are short-lived or have very slow proper motion , or both.* II .
The apparent irregularity in the distribution of such striae , during even a single discharge of the coil , is due , not to any actual irregularity in their arrangement , but to their unequal duration and to the various periods at which they are renewed .
These striae are , in fact , arranged at regular intervals throughout the entire column .
The fluttering appearance usually noticeable is occasioned by slight variations in position of the elementary striae at successive discharges of the coil .
With a view to divesting the coil-discharge of this irregular character , as well as for other purposes , I devised two different forms of contact-breakers ( one of which is described in the Eoyal Society 's ' Proceedings , ' vol. xxiii .
p. 455 ) ; but I postpone a description of the second , as well as of the experiments arising from its use , to another occasion .
III .
The proper motion of the elementary striae is that which appertains to them during a single discharge of the coil .
This appears to be generally directed from the positive towards the negative terminal .
Its velocity varies generally within very narrow limits .
It is greater the greater the number of coils employed , or the greater the electromotive force of the current .
In some tubes it may be seen to diminish towards the close of the discharge ; and even in rare instances alternately to increase and to diminish during a single discharge .
IV .
Plocculent striae , such as are usually seen in carbonic-acid tubes , are a compound phenomenon .
They are due to a succession of shortlived elementary striae , which are regularly renewed .
The positions at which they are renewed determine the apparent proper motion of the elementary striae .
If they are constantly renewed at the same positions in the tube , the flocculent striae will appear to have no proper motion and to remain steady .
If they are renewed at positions nearer and nearer to the positive terminal , the proper motion will be the same as that of the elementary striae 5 if they are renewed at positions further and further from the positive terminal , the proper motion will be reversed .
V. The velocity of proper motion varies , other circumstances being the same , with the diameter of the tube .
This was notably exemplified in the conical tube .
In tubes constructed for spectrum-analysis the capillary part shows very slight , while the more open parts often show considerable proper motion .
VI .
Speaking generally , the discharge lasts longer in narrow than in wide tubes .
In spectrum-tubes the capillary part gives in the mirror an image extending far beyond that due to the wider parts .
VII .
The coil-discharge appears , in the earlier part of its development at least , to be subject to great fluctuations in extent .
In all cases there VOL. XXV .
G 82 Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
[ May 18 , is a strong outburst at first .
This , although sometimes appearing as a bright line , is always , I believe , really stratified .
Immediately after this there follows a very rapid shortening of the column .
The extent of this shortening varies with circumstances ; but when , as is often the case , it reaches far down towards the positive terminal , a corresponding diminution of intensity is perceptible in the negative-glow .
The column of striae , after rising again , is often subject to similar fluctuations .
These , which are sometimes four or five in number , are successively of less and less extent , and reach only a short distance down the column or striae .
The rifts due to these fluctuations then disappear , and the striae either continue without interruption , or follow broken at irregular intervals , until the close of the discharge .
VIII .
The effect of the proper motion , taken by itself , is to shorten the column of striae .
But , as we have seen , the striae are in many cases renewed from time to time .
In regard to this point , the head of the column presents the most instructive features .
After the cessation of these rifts , the general appearance of the field is that of a series of diagonal lines commencing at successive points which form the bounding limit of the column at successive instants of time .
If the points are situated in a horizontal line , the striae are renewed at regular intervals at the same place ; and the length of the column is maintained by a periodic renewal of striae , a new one appearing at the head of the column as soon as its predecessor has passed over one dark interval .
If the boundary of the illuminated field rises , the length of the column increases ; if it descends , the column shortens .
In every case , however , the growth of the column takes place by regular and successive steps , and not irregularly .
The intervals of the new striae from one another and from the old ones are the same as those of the old ones from one another .
IX .
The principal influence of a change in the electromotive force appears to consist in altering the velocity of proper motion .
A change in the amount of battery-surface exposed produces a corresponding change in the duration of the entire discharge , as well as apparently in the development of some of the minor details of the striae .
X. " When the proper motion of the elementary striae exceeds a certain amount , the striae appear to the eye to be blended into one solid column of light , and all trace of stratification is lost .
When this is the case the mirror will often* disentangle the individual striae .
But there are , as might well be expected , cases in which even the mirror is of no avail , but in which we may still suppose that stratification exists .
A variety of experiments have led me to think that the separation of the discharge into two parts , viz. the column of light extending from the positive terminal , and the glow around the negative , with a dark space interven-ing , may be a test of stratified discharge ; but I cannot affirm any thing certainly on this point .

