50 3 Mr. J. A. Broun the Variation [ Feb. 22 , or , what is the same thing , AA ' is expressible in the two forms Mc ?
w and ~M .
du)v BB ' in the two forms M1c ?
w| and M \amp ; c. , the identity of the two expressions for the same arc , of course , depending on the relation between the two parameters .
But any such monomial expression Mc ?
w of an arc A A ' would be of a complicated form , not obviously reducible to elliptic functions .
Casey does not obtain them at all ; but he finds geometrically monomial expressions for the differences and sum BB ' \#151 ; AA ' , CC ' \#151 ; BB ' , DD ' + CO ' , DD'\#151 ; AA ' ( they cannot be all of them differences ) , and thence a quadrinomial expression AA'=N1cZw1+N2c ?
w2+N3c ?
w3+N"cZw ( his ds'= pels+p'dd'+p"eld"and that without any explicit consideration of the relations which connect the parameters .
I propose to complete the analytical theory by establishing the monomial equations AA'=Mf ?
w=M1clw1 , \amp ; c. , and the relations between the parameters u\gt ; , w w2 , w.s , which belong to an inscribed quadrilateral ABCD , so as to show what the process really is by which we pass from the monomial form to a quadrinomial form -f- +N2dv2 + N3doi:i , \#151 ; dS , wherein each term is separately expressible as the differential of an elliptic integral , and to further develop the theory of the transformation to elliptic integrals .
Y. " On the Influence of Height in the Atmosphere on the Diurnal Variation of the Earth 's Magnetic Force .
" By J. A. Broun , F.lt .
S. Received January 25 , 1877 .
In a paper in the Society 's Transactions on the earth 's magnetic intensity at Bombay , Mr. 0 .
Chambers has examined the question of the influence of height on the diurnal inequality of the horizontal force* .
Two instruments were observed simultaneously at 0h 22m and 2h 29m p.m. : one , a bifilar magnetometer , was 6 feet above the ground ; the other , a unifilar absolute-intensity instrument , was 38 feet above the ground .
Mr. Chambers has found that , in the interval between the two times specified , the change of horizontal force given by the bifilar magnetometer was rather more than one third ( 0*37 ) of the mean diurnal range , and that the absolute- intensity instrument showed a change about one fifth less than the bifilar .
This difference he does not think instrumental ; and he considers that , if true , " it suggests the attribution of a very considerable magnetic influence to the state of the medium intervening between the upper and lower places of observation , " \amp ; c. The mean changes of horizontal force between 0h 22m and 2h 29m p.m. by the two instruments were as follow:\#151 ; * " The Absolute Direction and Intensity of the Earth 's Magnetic Force at Bombay , \amp ; c. " By Chai-les Chambers , F.R.S. , Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory .
Phil. Trans. 1876 , p. 84 .
1877 .
] of the Earth 's Magnetic Force .
5G7 Bv bifilar , 6 feet above ground ... ... ... = \#151 ; 0-00062 X , By intensity unifilar , 38 " " " ... ... .= \#151 ; 0-00048 X , Mean diurnal range by the bifilar ... ... ... ... ... ... = 0-00166 X , where X is the whole horizontal magnetic force .
Having occupied myself at different times during the last thirty years with questions relating to the magnetic and meteorological variations at different heights in the atmosphere , I have examined my observations of the horizontal magnetic force , as far as they have been reduced , with reference to Mr. Chambers s conclusion .
In 1847 I made two series of simultaneous observations on the highest point of the Cheviot range of hills , and at Makerstoun in Scotland , about 30 miles distant : the difference of height of the two stations is 2440 feet .
The first series was made in June with a bifilar at Makerstoun , and an intensity unifilar on Cheviot* .
The difference of the daily range of horizontal force at the two stations , as deduced from hourly observations during three days , was certainly less than one twentieth of the whole daily range ; but part at least of this difference was probably due to instrumental causes .
For a second expedition in August of the same year ( 1847 ) the same instrument was employed on Cheviot ; but a second intensity unifilar was observed at Makerstoun , in addition to the bifilar magnetometer .
The observatory on the first expedition was under a tent , on the second it was under ground , a deep cutting having been made for this purpose .
The result for the horizontal intensity at Makerstoun showed such differences between the two instruments used there ( m the same room ) , that it was evident the unifilar intensity instrument could not be depended on for small differences in the amount of the variations .
Iu the years 1855 to 1858 two bifilar magnetometers of precisely the same construction in every way , devised by me expressly for these com-parisons , were placed , cue in the Agurtia Malley Observatory , 6200 feet above the sea , the other in the Trevandrum Observatory ( lat. 8 31 -V ) , 200 feet above the sea ( about 24 miles from the former station ) .
The first year 's observations of the bifilar in the peak observatory were found to be valueless for this , as it was discovered that the thermometer , though in the same box , did not show with sufficient exactness the temperature of the magnet : this was due to the magnet being within a pasteboard box , to protect it more completely from currents of air , while the thermometer bulb was outside this inner box .
This source of error was avoided by placing two thermometers with their bulbs on opposite sides of the magnet and within the inner box .
The series of hourly observations after the middle of August lN\gt ; b is * Some account of the results for the Magnetic Declination obtained from tins expedition was given to the British Association immediately afterwards ( see Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1847 , p. 10 ) .
568 On the Variation of the Earth 's Magnetic Force .
[ Feb. 22 , believed to be free from all error .
The unit-coefficients were determined with the greatest accuracy for both the instrument on the peak and that on the plain , verified by different methods , giving results which did not differ by one five-hundredth of the whole value .
The temperature-coefficients were also found with much exactness ; and , as hard steel magnets were chosen expressly for these instruments , the temperature-coefficients were small .
The following results from the hourly observations , made during the last four months of 1856 , will be sufficient for my present object .
Taking the observations at the hours nearest to those for which Mr. C. Chambers has obtained his result ( namely , 0h 30m and 2h 30m p.m. ) , I find the mean change of horizontal force from the former to the latter time\#151 ; On the plain , 200 feet above the sea ... ..= \#151 ; 0-0009760 X , On the mountain , 6200 feet above the sea ... .
= \#151 ; 0-0009724 X ; so that the change on the mountain-peak was less than on the plain by one two-hundred-and-seventieth .
In each of the months October and November the change was exactly the same at ' the two stations .
If we take double the interval , so as to keep the same hours in the middle , I find the mean change from 11h 30ra a.m. to 3h 30m p.m.\#151 ; On the plain , 200 feet above the sea ... ..== \#151 ; 0-0016556 X , On the peak , 6200 feet above the sea ... ..= \#151 ; 0-0016510 X , The change was therefore one three-hundred-and-sixtieth less on the peak than on the plain .
The mean of the diurnal ranges for the four months was 0-00215 X. It will be seen that in the interval of four hours the change was as great as the whole mean diurnal range at Bombay ; and if the quantities had been given to five places of decimals only as for Bombay , the movements would have appeared exactly the same at the two stations .
It will thus be seen that instead of i less for a difference of 32 feet in height , I do not find more than f'r a difference of 6000 feet when the change during four hours is considered ; nor , till I have made a more searching investigation of the whole series of observations , can I vouch that this difference ( which is very much less than the probable error of an observation at either station ) is not accidental .
Another series of observations was made at the same two stations in 1864 , when a unifilar horizontal-force magnetometer , on Dr. Lamont 's construction , was employed , as well as the bifilar instrument .
These observations are not yet completely discussed ; and on that account I do not enter at present into the question as to what difference may exist in the laws of magnetic variations when the height differs by 6000 feet .
Meanwhile it will be useful , I believe , to those who may attempt investi1877 .
] Prof. J. Tyndall on Heat as a Germicide .
gations of this kind , to be acquainted with some of the causes of failure which I have met with , and to know how small the difference of the variations probably is when we ascend to a considerable height in the atmosphere .
The results I have obtained from two instruments placed in positions so greatly different as those of the cloudy mountain-peak and the sunny plain , will also show the degree of accuracy attainable when the requisite precautions are taken , and accurate methods of correction and reduction have been employed .
YI .
" On Heat as a Germicide when Discontinuously Applied " By John Tyndall , F.R.S. Received February 14 , 1877 .
Boyal Institution , Feb. 14th , 1877# My dead , Huxley , \#151 ; In my " Preliminary Note , " communicated to the Royal Society on the 18th of January , various infusions were referred to as manifesting an astonishing resistance to sterilization by heat .
This resistance was traced to its source ; and I have been since informed that you were good enough to express at the time a very favourable opinion as to the significance and value of the results indicated .
It will , I think , now interest you to learn that the most obstinate of the infusions referred to in the " Note " have been since rendered tractable by the application of very simple means .
Following up the plain suggestions of the germ theory , I have been able , even in the midst of a virulently infective atmosphere , to sterilize all the infusions by a temperature lower than that of boiling water .
It is known that the prolonged application of a low temperature is often equivalent to the brief application of a higher one ; and you may therefore be disposed to conclude that in the experiments here referred to I have substituted time for intensity .
This , however , is not the case .
The result depends solely upon the manner in which the heat is applied .
For example , I boil an infusion for fifteen minutes , expose it to a temperature of 90 ' Fahr. , and find it twenty-four hours afterwards swarming with life .
IvSubmit a second sample of the same infusion to a temperature lower than that of boiling water for five minutes , and it is rendered permanently barren .
The secret of success here is an open one .
I have already referred to .
the period of latency which precedes the clouding of infusions with visible Bacteria .
During this period the germs are being prepared for their emergence into the finished organism .
They reach the end of this period of preparation successively\#151 ; the period of latency of any germ depending upon its condition as regards dryness and induration .
This , then , is my mode of proceeding:\#151 ; Before the latent period of any of the germs has been completed ( say a few hours after the preparation of the infusion ) , I subject it for a brief interval to a temperature which may be

