V. An Account of some Experiments , in relation to the Weight of Common Water under different Circumstances .
By Mr. Fr. Hauksbee , F. R. S. FIrst , I took a Glass of Common Water , and having weighed nicely a Glass-Bottle in it , whose Bulk was equal to the Bulk of 575 Grains of the same Fluid ; then I caus 'd some of the same Water to be boiled over the Fire , and after that , it was included in Vacuo , and there remained till it became of the same Temperature ( as to coolness ) with common Water .
Thus to the utmost of my power , I endeavoured to extricate all the Air out of the Water , thinking in that State it would become more dense than when I weighed my Bottle first i n't ; but contrary to my Expectation , I found that the Bottle had just the same weight in it , as before , which seems to confirm the impossibility to compress Water by force into a lesser space than it naturally possesses ; for if upon the removal of such a quantity of Air from out of its Body , the Parts do not slide any closer together , how should a Weight laid upon its Surface , when its Interstices seem to be replete with Air , make any impression on it .
The Body which was forced out of the Water by the prementioned means , I callAir , since , for any thing to the contrary that I can discover , it is subject to all the same Laws with it ; but that the Water upon its Absence should not unite more closely than before , seems very surprising to me ; for I cannot conceive what Matter must supply the Vacancies , since the Particles of Water themselves remain at the same Distances as if the Air was not withdrawn , otherwise the Water of necessity must become more dense .
But to proceed , I caus 'd some Water to be heated about Blood warm , when weighing my Bottle in it I found the Bulk of Water equal to the Bulk of the Bottle , which was about three Grains less than when cold ; which shows , that the component parts of the Water are easily separated by Heat , and the Matter lodged in its Interstices , capable of Dilation : Then I took that Water that I had purged of all its Air ( as near as I could , ) and gave it a degree of Heat , not exceeding luke-warm ; upon weighing the premention 'd Bottle in it , I found , that altho ' the Heat it had received was very inconsiderable , yet the Bulk of the Water , in that State , equal to that of the Bottle , was now diminished two Grains : which plainly shows , That notwithstanding the Water contained no Air that I could discover , yet there seems a Matter latent in it capable of Intumescence .

