94 Drs. S. Martin and R. N. Wolfenden .
[ May 16 , In conclusion , the author stated it was impossible in a short abstract to go into the details of the subjects here discussed , and for further information the reader must be referred to the paper itself .
II .
" Physiological Action of the Active Principle of the Seeds of Abrus precatorius(Jequirity ) .
" By SIDNEY MARTIN , M.D. London , British Medical Association Research Scholar , Assistant Physician to the Victoria Park Chest Hospital , and R. NORRIS Wolfenden , M.D. ( Cantab .
) .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College .
) Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received April 11 , 1889 .
The object of the present investigation was to study the physiological action of the active principle of the jequirity seed .
A watery infusion of the seeds , as is well , known , produces severe inflammation of the conjunctiva when a few drops are placed in the eye ; and when injected under the skin , or as in the " sui " poisoning of cattle in India , it is fatal to animals .
Both the local irritant and the poisonous properties of the seed were formerly ascribed to a specific organism , called the jequirity bacillus , the nature of which was investigated by Sattler , Cornil , and Berlioz .
Klein , however , showed that the action could not be due to a bacillus , since the poison was permanently destroyed by momentary boiling of the infusion .
Warden and Waddell have effectually disposed of the bacillus theory of the action of jequirity , and in a pamphlet entitled the ' Non-Bacillar Nature of Abrus Poison ' ( Calcutta , 1884 ) , they demonstrated that the poisonous activity of the seeds was dependent on a proteid body which was called by them Abrin .
Abrin was considered to be closely allied to egg'-albumin and the vegetable albumins .
The reactions given by Warden and Waddell are , however , by no means conclusive that abrin belongs to the class of " albumins " as understood by physiological chemists .
The fact that it is precipitated from solution by acetic acid shows that it is not an albumin : this is a reaction common to globulin and certain other proteids , such as alkali-album in .
The reactions , moreover , given by these observers as given by abrin are not distinctive of it , but are common to all proteids .
To clear up these discrepancies the proteids of the seed were investigated by one of us ( M. ) , and in a paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' ( vol. 42 , p , 331 ) two proteids were described , a globulin and an albumose .
The globulin was found to be vegetable paraglobulin , being soluble in 15 per cent , sodium chloride solution , and coagulating in 10 per cent , magnesium sulphate 1889 .
] Physiological Action of Seeds of Abrus precatorius .
95 solution between 75 ' and 80 ' C. The albumose gave the general reactions of its class , and corresponded to what has been called by one of us ( M. ) a-phytalbumose.* The physiological action of the globulin has been investigated by us .
It was isolated by the method detailed in the paper already quoted .
As the method employed is important , it is again mentioned here .
Both globulin and albumose were extracted from the decorticated and crushed seed by a 15 per cent , solution of sodium chloride , and the clear extract saturated with sodium chloride or ammonium sulphate after acxdulation with acetic acid .
The copious saturation precipitate consists of globulin and albumose : it is dissolved in distilled water , and dialysed in running water until the globulin is in great part thrown down .
The precipitate of globulin so obtained is separated by filtration and washed on the filter with previously boiled distilled water until no soluble proteid is present in the washings .
The distilled water removes the salt clinging to the globulin and the small amount of albumose present .
After this thorough washing the globulin which remains on the filter is a pure proteid .
It is removed from the filter and dried over sulphuric acid .
If it has been precipitated by ammonium sulphate , the globulin dries in greenish-black scales , owing to the admixture of colouring matter ; but if sodium chloride has been used , it is obtained as a whitish-yellow amorphous powder .
This was the powder used in our experiments .
It consists of pure globulin , almost completely soluble in 15 per cent , sodium chloride solution .
A small portion of the proteid became insoluble after dialysing and drying over sulphuric acid .
The solution used for injection was one made with 15 per cent. HaCl solution , which was previously boiled and cooled .
Physiological Action of the Globulin .
The Globulin of the Seeds of the Jequirity has the same Physiological Action as the Watery Extract of the Seeds and as the Proteid body " described by Warden and Waddell .
Local Action.\#151 ; A wratery infusion of the seeds when placed on the conjunctiva causes inflammation of the membrane with purulent discharge .
A similar effect is produced by " abrin , " and precisely a similar effect by the pure globulin .
This severe local action of abrus seeds we therefore ascribe to the globulin of the seeds .
In one experiment , for example , about 0 002 gram of the pure globulin was placed on the inner surface of the left eyelid of a large rabbit .
In 17| hours the conjunctiva was reddened and slightly swollen ; there was no chemosis , but there was a clear serous discharge from the eye .
In twenty-four hours more there was intense * See " The Nature of Papain , \amp ; c. , " ' Journ. of Physiology ' vol. 6 , p. 344 .
Drs. S. Martin and R. N. Wolfenden .
[ May 16 , purulent ophthalmia with , subconjunctival ecchymosis ; the cornea was quite clear .
The purulent discharge lasted till the death of the animal , about eighty-three hours after the inoculation .
The animal was apparently ill for about four hours before death .
At the postmortem there was severe subconjunctival haemorrhage , with oedema round the eyeball .
In another experiment , where a very small quantity of the globulin in a 15 per cent. NaCl solution was 'placed on the conjunctiva , there was inflammation with purulent discharge from the eye in 16^ hours .
The inflammation rapidly increased ( although there were no general symptoms of poisoning ) , and began to subside on the sixth day after inoculation .
In this case there was no subconjunctival haemorrhage , the amount of globulin used being less than in the first experiment quoted .
From both these experiments the local action of the globulin is evident : it produces intense inflammation , oedema , and local ecchymosis , and may produce death if the dose is sufficiently large .
General Action.-\#151 ; The local irritant effect is also seen when a solution of the globulin is injected subcutaneously .
The connective tissue becomes oedematous over a large area , there is congestion , and if the dose be a large one there are also punctiform ecchymoses .
No suppuration is found , probably because the animal does not live long enough .
As regards the general effect on the body produced by abrus-poison , we have not much to add to the account given by Drs. Warden and Waddell in their pamphlet previously quoted .
Abrus-globulin produces the same effect as the substance called by these observers " abrin , " and as the watery infusion of the juice .
If a small quantity of globulin , 0'0022 gram ( 0'01 gram per kilo , of body weight ) , be injected under the skin of a rat weighing 218 grams , symptoms of poisoning begin to appear in about six hours .
The animal then seems a little languid , and in a condition impossible to distinguish from sleepiness .
It continues in this state , making no voluntary movement , irresponsive to slight external stimuli , and with half-shut eyes .
It lies huddled up in its cage , the breathing becomes more rapid , and bloody motions are passed shortly before death , which occnrs in about twenty-four hours after inoculation .
If the animal is with young it aborts .
Post-mortem there are signs of oedema and ecchymoses at the seat of injection , and punctiform ecchymoses also beneath the peritoneum and sometimes in the lungs .
The intestines are congested , sometimes greatly inflamed ; the adenoid patches in the mucous membrane are swollen , and submucous ecchymoses are often seen .
The blood sometimes remains fluid for a long time , and is sometimes coagulated .
1889 .
] Physiological Action of Seeds of Abriis precatorius .
97 Fatal Bose.\#151 ; The minimal fatal dose of the globulin has not been determined by us ; the smallest dose we have found kill is 0*0022 gram or a dose of 0*01 gram per kilo , of body weight .
This dose took twenty-four hours to kill ; a larger dose kills more rapidly , and we have repeatedly demonstrated the .fact that the rapidity and intensity of the action of abrus-globulin is proportional to the quantity used .
This is seen in the following table of experiments on pigeons :\#151 ; Fatal Dose of Abrus-globulin in Pigeons .
Weight of pigeon in grams .
Dose of globulin in grams .
Dose per kilo , of body weight .
Death occurred in 310 0*0031 0*01 About 18 hours .
397 0*15 0*373 82 \gt ; \gt ; 216 0*2 0*925 \gt ; , 5f " In analysing the general symptoms produced by abrus-globulin ( abrus-poison ) it is seen that there are no convulsions produced and no definite paralysis , only a general weakening , ending gradually in death .
The fact that the poison produces oedema at the seat of injection , and that death is slow , may point to the idea that the cause of death is secondary to the local lesion produced by the poison , the absorption of septic material occurring .
This is not so , however , and for several reasons .
In the first place the local oedema is very slight in amount if the dose be small , and yet death occurs .
Suppuration , moreover , has not occurred in any of our experiments .
Moreover , if the fatal effect really occurred from the absorption of septic material , we should expect a rise of temperature ; the animal would be febrile .
This is not so ; the temperature instead of rising falls in a most remarkable manner .
A few observations were made on cats by Warden and Waddell on this point .
The animals used by us were pigeons , and the temperature was taken in the rectum every twenty minutes or half hour after the injection of the globulin .
At the same time the number of respirations per minute was counted , so that in the chart ( fig. 1 ) the respiration curve can be compared with the temperature curve .
It will be seen from the chart that the temperature , which was 106*8 ' F. before inoculation , began to fall in less than half an hour after the poison had been injected ; that this fall was gradual until two hours after the inoculation , after which time there is a rapid fall until death .
The fall of temperature until death was from 106*8 ' F. to 83 ' F. ; i.e. , 23*8 ' F. or 12*6 ' C. VOL. XLVI .
H Drs. S. Martin and R. N. Wolfenden .
[ May 16 , Fig. 1.\#151 ; Pigeon weighing 216 grams : 0'2 gram abrus-globulin injected over pectoral muscle ( 0 " 925 gram per kilo , of body weight ) .
Death in 5 hours 45 mins .
Temperature curve , thick line ; respiration curve , dotted line .
The respirations are seen from the curve to diminish more rapidly than the temperature falls for fifty-five minutes after inoculation ; there is then a stationary period until 115 minutes , after which the number of respirations per minute rapidly rises until death .
The curves , therefore , show a fall of temperature with an increase in the number of respirations .
In other experiments , where the temperature has been regularly taken , and the respirations counted , the same phenomena have been observed .
In an experiment where a pigeon weighing 397 grams was inoculated with 0T5 gram of abrus-globulin ( 0373 gram per kilo , of body weight ) , the fall of temperature was at first very rapid ; from 107T ' F. to 105 ' F. in less than half an hour , after which the temperature remained stationary ( with slight fluctuations ) until near death .
All the experiments point to the fact that abrus-globulin produces , when subcutaneously inoculated , a remarkable fall of temperature in pigeons ; at the same time producing in them great rapidity of respiration , a phenomenon also observed in mammals .
Effect on Blood Pressure\#151 ; The effect of abrus-globulin on the blood-pressure was tested in dogs .
Thus , in one experiment , where a dose of 0*01 gram per kilo , of body weight was injected into the femoral vein , there was no effect on the blood pressure in the carotid artery nor on the inhibitory power of the vagus , which was tested 15 minutes , 1889 .
] Physiological Action of Seeds of Abrus precatorius .
99 25 minutes , and 37 minutes after the inoculation .
In only two cases have we noticed any effect ; in both these there was a very slight and gradual fall in the blood pressure .
In one of these cases a dose of 0-044 gram per kilo , of body weight was injected into the femoral vein , and in the other a dose of only 0-0042 gram per kilo .
There is , therefore , no marked effect on the blood pressure , nor on the inhibitory power of the vagus , such as we noticed on the body temperature .
The only immediate evident effect of abrus-poisoning is a fall of the temperature ; symptoms of weakness and of rapid respiration only appear much later , from five to twelve hours after the subcutaneous inoculation , according to the dose given .
Effect of Heat on the Physiological Action of Abrus-globulin.\#151 ; Boiling destroys the activity of a watery extract of abrus seed .
We have performed many experiments with the view of determining at exactly what temperature the activity of the poison is destroyed .
It is reasonable to suppose that if the chief poisonous principle of abrus seed is the globulin , that the activity would be destroyed at the temperature at which the globulin coagulates ; and this we have found to be the case .
The Poisonous Action of Abrus-globulin is completely destroyed by momentarily heating a Solution to a Temperature of 75 ' or 80 ' the Temperature at which the Globulin coagulates .
The heating was done in a test-tube placed in a water-bath ; as soon as the solution of globulin was at the required temperature , the tube was removed and rapidly cooled .
In one experiment , four rats were inoculated with the same dose of globulin , which in one case had been heated to 50 ' C. , in another to 60 ' C. , in the third to 70 ' C. , whilst the fourth was unheated ; all the animals died with symptoms of abrus-poisoning within thirty hours of the inoculation .
In another experiment , three rats were inoculated , the first with a solution of globulin heated to 75 ' C. , the second with the same amount heated to 80 ' C. , whilst the third was inoculated with unheated globulin .
The first two rats , those inoculated with solutions heated to 75 ' and 80 ' C. , remained quite well , while the third , inoculated with unheated globulin , died within twenty-four hours of abrus-poisoning .
Experiments performed on the eye with solutions of globulin , similarly treated , gave the same results ; if heated up to 50 ' , 60 ' , or 70 ' C. , the globulin produces as intense an ophthalmia as when unheated , but if heated to 75 ' or 80 ' , the globulin produces no inflammation or oedema .
The conclusions , therefore , at which we have arrived from our experiments are\#151 ; 100 Dr. S. Martin .
The Toxic . .
of the [ May 16 , 1 .
That the poisonous principle of the seeds of Abrus ( jequirity ) is a globulin.* 2 .
That the activity of this globulin is destroyed by heating its solution to 75 ' or 80 ' C. , the temperature at which it coagulates .
3 .
That this globulin produces a remarkable fall of body temperature after subcutaneous injection .
4 .
That it causes rapidity of breathing shortly before death .
5 .
That the other actions ascribable to the globulin are : the production of local oedema and inflammation when subcutaneously iujected or applied to the eye , the presence , post-mortem , of petechia ?
beneath the serous membrane , and the occurrence of haemorrhagic gastro-enteritis .
III .
" The Toxic Action of the Albumose from the Seeds of Abrus precatorius .
" By SIDNEY MARTIN , M.D. Lond. , British Medical Association Research Scholar , Assistant Physician to the Victoria Park Chest Hospital .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received May 8 , 1889 .
An account , by Dr. Wolfenden and myself , of the physiological action of the globulin which I extracted from the seeds of the jequirity plant , has been presented the Royal Society .
I have shownf that there are two proteids present in the seeds ; a globulin and an albumose .
The present paper deals with the physiological action of the albumose .
Dr. Wolfenden and I showed in the paper referred to that the globulin possessed the poisonous qualities of the watery extract of the seeds and of the body called " abrin , " described by Drs. Warden and Waddell .
After being obtained in the pure state , it produced severe conjunctivitis when applied to the eye , and when subcutaneously injected it caused local oedema and ecchymosis , followed by death with the signs and symptoms of gastro-intestinal irritation and inflammation .
It moreover lowered the body-temperature of the pigeon in a remarkable manner .
From the method used by Drs. Warden and Waddell in preparing their " abrin , " both proteids would be obtained , since they used a watery extract and precipitated the proteids with alcohol .
Abrin would , therefore , be a mixture of globulin and albumose .
As Dr. Wolfenden and I had found that the * An account of the physiological action of the albumose of ahrus-seeds has been presented to the Royal Society by one of us ( M. ) .
May 10 , 1889 .
" 1 " * -Roy .
Soc. Proc./ ~vol .
42 , p. 331 .

