]\gt ; June 11 , 1891 . .
WILLIAM THOMSON , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Sir John Conroy , Mr. Edwin Bailey Elliott , Mr. Percy C. Gilchrist , .
William Dobinson Halliburton , Mr. John Edward Mar , Mr. Ludwig Mond , Professor Silvanus Phillips Thompson , and Captain Thomas Henry Tizard were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. ' On Some Test Cases for the Maxwell-Boltzmann arding Distribution of Energy By SIR WILLIAII THOMSON , D.C.L. , .
Received June 11 , 1 .
Maxwell , in his article ( ' Phil. Mag 1860 ) " " On the Collision of Elastic Spheres enunciates a very remarkable theorem , of primary importance in the kinetic theory of gases , to the effect that , in an assemblage of large numbers of mutually colliding spheres of two of several different magnitudes , the mean kinetic energy is the same for equal numbers of the spheres irrespectively of their masses and diameters ; or , in other words , the time-averages of the squares of the velocities of individual spheres are inversely as their masses .
The mathematical investigation given as a proof of this theorem in that first article on the subject is quite unsatisfactory ; but the mere enunoiation of it , even if without proof , was a very valuable contribution to science .
In a subsequent paper Dynamical Theory of Gases ' Phil. Trans. ' for May , 1866 ) Maxwell finds in his equation ( 34 ) ( ' Collected Works , ' p. 47 ) , as a result of a thorough mathematical investigation , the same theorem extended to include collisions between Boscovich points with mutual forces according to any law of distance , provided only that not more than two points are in collision ( that is to say , within the distances of their mutual influence ) simultaneously .
Tait confirms Maxwell 's original theorem for colliding spheres of different magnitudes in an interesting and important examination of the subject in SS 19 , 20 , 21 of his paper " " On the Foundations of Kinetic Theory of Gases\ldquo ; ( ' Trans. R.S.E. ' for May , 1866 ) .
2 .
Boltzmann , in his ' Studien uber das Gleichgewicht der lebendigen Kraft zwischen bewegten matel.iellen Punkten\ldquo ; ( ' Sitzb .
K. .
W. Thomson .
On the -Boltzmann [ June 11 , Akad .
Wien , ' October 8 , 1868 ) , enunciated a extension of this theorem , and Maxwell a still wider generalisation in his paper " " On Boltzmann 's Theorem on the Average Distribution of nergy in a System of Material Points " " ( ' Cambridge Phil. .
Trans May 6 , ished in vol. 2 of 's ' Scientific Papers , ' pp. 713\mdash ; 741 ) , to the following effect ( p. 716):\mdash ; ' ' In the uItimate state of the system , the average kinetic energy of two given portions of the system must be in the ratio of the number of degrees of freedom of those portions Mnch disbelief and doubt has been felt as to the complete truth , or the extent of cases for which there is truth , of this proposition .
3 .
For a test case , differing as little as possible from Maxwell 's original case of solid elastic spheres , consider a hollow spherical shell and a solid spbere\mdash ; globule we shall call it for brevity\mdash ; within shell .
I must first digress to remark that what has hitherto by Maxwell and Clausius and others before and after them been called for brevity an " " elastic sphere is not an elastic solid , capable of rotation and of elastic deformation ; and therefore capable of an infinite number of modes of steady vibration , into which , of finer and finer degrees of nodal sub-division and shorter and shorter periods , all translational energy would , if the Boltzmann-Maxwell generalised proposition were true , be ultimate ] transformed by collisions .
The " " smooth elastic spheres\ldquo ; are really Boscovich point-aloms , with their translational inertia , and with , law of force , zero force at every distance between two points exceeding the sum of the radii of the two balls , and infinite repulsion at exactly this distance .
We may use Boscovich similarly for the hollow shell with globule in its , and so do away with all quostion as to vibrations due to elasticity of material , whether of the shell .
of the globule .
Let us simply suppose the mutual action between the shell and the globule to be nothing except at an instant of collision , and then to be such that their relative component velocity along the radius through the point of contact is reversed by the collision , while the motion of their centre of inertia remains unchanged .
4 .
For brevity , we shall call the shell and interior globule of S3 , double molecule , or sometimes , for more brevity , a doublet .
The " " smooth elastic sphere\ldquo ; of S 3 will be called simply an atom , or a single atom ; and the radius or diameter or surface of the atom will mean the radius or diameter or surface of the corresponding sphere .
( This explanation is necessary to avoid an ambigul which might occur with reference to the common expression " " sphere of action ' ' of a Boscovich atom .
) 5 .
Consider now a vast number of atoms and doublets , enclosed in a pelftlyigid fixed surface , having the property of reversing the normal componeIlt velocity of ap of any atom or shell or doublet 1891 .
] Doctr .
in r.egarding Distribution of Energy .
at the instant of contact of surfaces , while leaving unchanged the absolute velocity of the centre of inertia of the two .
Let any velocity orvelocities in any ection or directions be given to any one or more of the atoms or of the shells or globules constituting the doublets .
According to the Bolbzmann-Maxwell doctrine , the motion will become distributed through the system , so that uItimately the time-average kinetic energy of each atom , each shell , and each globule shall be equal ; and therefore that of ] ] double that of each atom .
This is cPrtainly a very marvellous conclusion ; bnt I see no reason to doubt it on that account .
After , it is not obviously more marvellous than the seemingly wel ] proved conclusion , that in a mixed assemblage of colliding single atoms , some of which have a million million times the mass of others , the smaller masses will ultimately average a million times the velocity of the er .
But it is not irlcluded in Maxwell 's proof for single atoms of different masses of his " " Dynamical Theory of Gases\ldquo ; referred to above ] ; and the condition that the globules enclosed in the shells are prevented by the from collisions with one another violates Tait 's condition of S 18 of " " Foundations of K.T. Gases \ldquo ; , " " that there is perfectly free access for collision between each pair of particles whether of the same or of different systems An independent igation of such a simple and definite case as that of the atoms and blets defined in SS 3\mdash ; 5 is desirable as a test , or would be as an illus{ration were test not needed , for the exceedingly wide isation set forth in the BoItzmann-Maxwell doctrine .
6 .
Next , instead of only a single globule within the shell of S 4 , let there be a vast number .
To fix ideas let the mass of the shell be equaI to a lundred times the sum of the masses of the ] obules , and let the number of the globules be a hundred million million .
Let two such shells be connected by a push-and-pull massless spring .
Let all be given at rest , with the spring stretched to any extent ; and then left free .
According to the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine , the motion produced initially by the spring will become distributed through the system , so that ultimately the sum of the kinetic energics of the globules within each shell will be a dred million million times the average kinetic energy of the shell .
velocity*of the shell will uItimately be a hundred-millionth of average velocity of the globules .
A corresponding in kinetic theory of gases is that , if two rigid shells each } hing .
1 gram , and containing a centigram of monatomic gas , be attached to the two of a massless perfectly elastic tuning fork , and set to vibrate , the gas will become heated in virtue of its viscous resistanco The " " average of a particlo irrespectively of direction , is ( in ] etic theory of ses ) a oonvenient expl.ession for the square root of the timeaverage of the square of its velooity .
L. Sir W. Thomson .
On the } ) [ June 11 , to the vibration excit , ed in it by the vibration of the shell , until nearly all the initial energy tuning fork is thus spent .
7 .
Going back to the double molecuIes of S 5 , suppose tlJe internal globule to be so connected } ) massless springs with the shell that the globule is towards the centre of the shell with a force simply proportional to the distance between the centres of the two .
This arrangement , which I gave in my Baltimore Lectures , in 1884 , as au illustration for vibratory molecules embedded in ether , be equivalent to two masses connected by a massless spring , if we had only motions in one line to consider ; but it has the advantage of being perfectly isotropic , and giving for all motions parallel to any fixed line exactly the same resuIt as if there were no motion perpendicnlar to it .
When a pair of masses connected by a spring strikes a fixed obstacle or a movable body , with the line of their centres not exactly perpendicular to the tangent plane of ontact , it is cansed to rotate .
No such complication affects our isotropic doublet .
An assemblage of such doublets being given moving about within a rigid enclosing surface , will the ultimate btatistics be , for each doublet , *equal average kinetic energies of motion of centre of inertia , and of relative motion of the two constituents ?
* This implies equal average kinetic energies of the two constiments ; and , versely , equal average kinetic energies of the two constituents , except in the case of their masses being equal , implies the equality stated in the text .
Let be abso lute component velocities of two masses , , perpendicular to a fixed plal ) ; the corresponding component velocity of their centre of inertia ; and that of their mutual relative motion .
We have , . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) ; whence ( 2 ) .
Now suppose the time-average of Ur to be zero .
In every case in which this is so we have , by ( 2 ) , Time-av .
Time-av . .
( 3 ) .
Ifence in any case in which Time-av .
( 4 ) we have Time-av . .
( 5 ) , and therefore , except when , we must have .
( 6 ) , proves the proposition , because , as we readily see from ( 1 ) , is , in every case , the kinetic energy of the relative motions , , and U-u ' .
1891 .
] Doclrine ) of .
83 8 .
If we try to answel .
question syntlletically , we find a complex and troublesome in the details of all but the very case of ( .
, ollision which can occor , which is direct collision between two not vibrating doublets , or any collision of one not previously vibrating doublet against a fixed plane .
In this case , if the masses of globule and shell are equal , a complete collision consists of two impacts at an interval of time equal to half the of free vibration of the doublet , and after the second impact there is separation without vibration , just as if we bad had single spheres instead of the doublets .
But in obJique collision between two not previously vibrating doublets .
even if the masses of shell and gJobule are equal , we ]lave a somewhat troublesome problem to find the interval between the two impacts , when there two , and to find the final resulting vibration .
When the component relative motion ] to the tangent plan of the first impact exceeds a certain value depending on the radius of the outer sul.face of the shell , the period of free vibration of the doublets , and the reJative velocity of oach ; there is no second impact , and the doublets separate with no relative velocity perpendicular to the tangent plane , but each with the energy of that component of its previous motion converted into vibrational energy .
When the mass of the is much smaller than the mass of the interior globule , almost evcry collision will consist of a large number of impacts .
It seems exceedingly difficult to find how to calculate true statistics of these chattering collisions , and arrive at sound conclusions as to the ultimate distribution of ellel.gy in any of the very simplest cases other than Maxwell 's original case of ] ; but , if the Boltzmann-Maxwell generalised doctrine is true , we ought to be able to see its as essential , with special clearness in the nplest cases , even without going through the full problem presented by the details .
I can find nothing in Maxwell 's latest article on ths subject ( ' Camb .
Phil. Trans May 6 , 1878 ) , or in auy of his previous papers , proving an affirmative answer to the question of S 7 .
9 .
Going back to S 6 , Jet the globuIes be initially distribnted as nearly as may be homogeneously through the hollow ; Jet each globule be connected with neighbours by massless springs ; and let all the globules which are near the inner surface of the shell be connected with it also by massless .
Or let any number of smaller shells be enclosed within our outer shell , and connected by massless springs as represented by the accompanying diagram , taken from a leprint of my Baltimore Iectures now in progress .
Let two such outer shells , give1l at rest with their systems of globules in equilibrium within them , be connected by massless springs , and be started in motion , as were the shells of S 6 .
There will not now be the great loss of energy from the vibration of the shells which there was in S 6 .
On the contrary , the ultimate average kinetic energy of the Sir .
Thomson .
On the two hundred million million globules will be certainly small in comparison with the ultimate average kinetic energy of the single shell .
It may be because each globule of S 6 is { ree to wander that the ellergy is lost from the shell in that case , and distributed among them .
There is nothing vague in their motion allowing them to take more and more energy , now when they are connected by the massless spl.ings .
If we suppose the motions infinitesimal , or if , whatever their ranges may be , all forces are in simple proportion to displacements , the elementary dynamical theorem of entajl modes shows how to find determinately each of the 600 million million and six simple harmonic vibrations of which the motion resulting from the prescribed initial circumstances is constituted .
It tells us that the sum of the potential and kinetic energies of each mode remains always of constant value , and that the time-average of the changing kinetic energy .
its period is half of this constant value .
Without fully the problem for the 600 million million and six -ordinates , it is easy to see that the gravest fundamental mode of the motion actually produced in the prescribed circumstances differs but little in period and energy from the single simple monic vibration which the two shells would take if the globules were rigidly connected to them , or were removed from within tbem , and the other initial circumstances were those of S 6 .
But this conclusion depends on the forces being rigorously in simple proportion to displacements .
In no real case could they be so , and if there is any deviation the simple proporbionality of to displacement , the independent superposition of motions does not hold good .
We have still a theorem of fundamental modes , although , so far as I k-now , this theory has not yet been investigated .
For any stable system moving a given sum , , of potential and kinetic , there must in general be at least as fundamental modes of rigorously periodic motion as there are freedoms ( or independent variables ) .
But the ation of each fundamental mode is now not similar *Sections lO to 17 added July 10 , 1891 .
It is similar for adynamic cases , that is to say , cases in which there is no potential energy , , for example , a particle constrained to remain on a surface and mosing along a , line the influence of no " " applied\ldquo ; force .
1891 .
] Doctrine regardin9 Distribution of .
8 for different values of ; and superposition of different fundamental modes : whether with the same or with different values of , has now no meaning .
It seems to me probable that every mode is essentialIy unstable .
It is so if Maxwell 's fundamental assumption* ' ' that the system if left to itself in its actual state of motion , will , sooner or later , pass through every phase which is consistent with the equation of energy\ldquo ; is true .
It seems to me quite probable that this assumption true , provided the\ldquo ; actual state of motion " " is not exactly , as to position and velocity , a uration of some one of the fundamental modes of rigorously periodic motion , and provided also that the " " system\ldquo ; has not any exceptional cter , such as those indicated by Maxwell for cases in which he warns us that his assumption does not hold good .
11 .
Bnt , conceding Maxwell 's fundamental assumption , I do not see in the mathematical workings of his paper .
} .
any of his conclusion " " that the average kinetic energy corresponding to any one of the variables is the same for every one of the variables of the system Indeed , as a general proposition its meaning is explained , and seems to me inexplicable .
The reduction of the kinetic energy to a sum of squaresS leaves the several parts of the whoIe with no correspondence to any defined or definable set of independent variables .
What , for example , can the meaning of the conclusion be for the case of a pendulum ?
( a system of two rigid bodies , one supported on a fixed , izontal axis and the other on a parallel axis fixed relatively to the first body , and both acted on only by gravity ) .
The conclusion is quite intelligible , however ( but is it true when the kinelic energy is expressible as a sum of squares of rates of change of single -ordinates each multiplied by a function of all , or of some , of the ordinates .
Consider , for example , the still easier case of these coefficients constant .
12 .
Consider more particularly the easiest case of all , motion of a single particle in a plane , that is the case of.just two independent variables , say , ; and kinetic energy equal to .
The tions of motion are * ' ' Scientific Papers Vol. , p. 714 .
Ibid. , pp. 714 , 715 .
Ibid. , pp. S Ibr.d .
, p. 722 .
Or of Maxwell 's " " in p. 728 .
[ It may be untrue for one set of , though true for others .
Consider , for example , uniform motion in a circle .
For all systems of rectilineal odinates ( , time-av .
time-av .
; but for polar -ordinates ; have not time-av .
equal to time-av . .
T. , July 21 , ] 8 Sir W. Thomson .
On the Maxwell-Boltzmann [ June 11 , where V is the potential energy , which may be any nction of snbject only to the condition ( required for stability ) that it is essentially positive ( its least value being , for brevity , taken as zero ) .
It is easily proved that , with any given value , , for the sum of kinetic and potential energies tbere are two determinate modes of periodic motion ; that is to say , there are two finite closed curves such that if be projected from any point of either with velocity equal to in the direction , eitherwards , of the tangent to the curve , path will be exactly that curve .
In a very special class of cases there are only two such periodic motions , but it is that there are more than two in other cases .
13 .
Take , for example , . .
all values of we have and as two fundamental modes .
When is infinitely small we have only these two ; but for any finite value of we have clearly an infinite number of fundamental modes , and every mode differs infinitely little from being a fundamental mode .
To see this let be from any point in OX , in a direction perpendicular to OX , with avelocity equal to .
After a sufficiently great number of crossings and -crossings across the line , the particle will cross this line very nearly at right angles , at some point , .
Vary the position of very slightly in one direction or other , and -project from it perpendicularly and with proper velocity ; till ( by proper " " trial and error\ldquo ; method ) a path is found , atter still the same number of crossings and -crossings , crosses exactly at right angles at a point very near the point .
Let continue ibs journey along this path and , after just as many more crossings and -crossings , it will return exactly to , and cross there , exactly at right angles .
Thus the path from to is exactly half an orbit , and from to the remaining half .
14 .
When is a small numeric , the part of the kinetic energy expressed by is very small in comparison with the total energy , E. Hence the path is at every time very nearly the resultant of the two primary fnndamental modes formulated in S13 ; and an interesting problem is pl.esented , to find ( by the method of the " " variation of paramebers , slowly varying ftlnctions of that , , Doctrine r'garding Distribution of Energy .
87 shall bs the rigorons solution , 0 a practical approximation to it .
Careful consideration of possibilities in respect to this case very small ] seem thoroughly to confirm Maxwell 's fundamentalz assumption quoted in S11 ; and that it is correct whether be small or large seems exceedingly probable , or quite certa 15 .
But it sesms also probable thab RIaxwell 's conclusion , which for the ( iase of a material point moving in a plane is Time-av . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) is not true when differs from .
It is certainly not proved .
No dynamical principle except the equation of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 2 ) , is brought into the mathemabical work of pp. 722\mdash ; 725 , which is given by Maxwell as proof for it .
Hence any arbitrarily drawn curve might be assumed for the path without violating the dynamlcs which enters into Maxwell 's investigation ; and we may draw curves for the path such as to satisfy ( 1 ) , and curves not satisfying ( 1 ) , but all traversing the whole space within the bounding curve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) , and all satisfying Maxwell 's fundamental assumption ( S11 ) .
16 .
The meaning of the question is illustrated by reducing it to a purely geometrio question regarding the path , thus : the incliuation to of the tangent to the path at any polnt , and the velocity in the path , we have . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 4 ) , and therefore , by ( 2 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hence , if we call the total length of curve travelled , .
( 6 ) ; and the question of S 15 becomes , Is or is not ? . .
( 7 ) , where denotes so great a length of path that it has passed a great 1lumber of times very near to every point within the boundary ( 3 ) , very nearly in every direction .
17 .
Consider now separately the parts of tho two members of ( 7 ) derived from portions of the path which cross an infinitesimal having its centre at .
are respectively Mr. Crookes .
@ [ Jnne 11 , , and . . . . . .
( 8 ) , where denotes the number of portions of the path , per unit distance in } direction inclined to , which pass eitherwards ftcross the area directions inclined to at angles between the values and .
The most general possible expression for is , according to Fourier , . . . . . . . .
( 9 ) .
Hence the two members of ( 8 ) become respectively , and ( 10 ) .
Remarking that and are functions of , and taking , we find , from ( 10 ) , for the two totals of ( 7 ) respective ] and ( 11 ) , where denotes integration over the whole space enclosed by ( 3 ) .
These quantities are equal if and only if vanishes ; it does so , cIearly , if ; but it seems improbable that , except when , it can vanish generally ; and unless it does so , our present test case would disprove the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine .
II .
" " On Electrical Evaporation By ILLIAM CROOKES , F.R.S. Received June 4 , 1891 .
It is well known that when a vacuum tube is furnislJed with intsrnal platinum electrodes , the adjacent glass , especially near the negative pole , speedily becomes blackened , owin .
the deposition of metallic platinum .
The passage of the induction current greatly stimulates the motion of the residual gaseous molecules ; those condensed upon and in the immediate neighbourhood of the negative pole are shot away at an immense speed in almost strai.crbt lines , the speed valying with the of exhaustiou and with the intensity of the induced current .
Platinum being used for the negative pole ,

