]\gt ; Rev. F. H. Jackson .
[ June 15 , " " A Generalisation of the Functions and By Rev. F. H. CKSON , .
Communicated by Professor J. LARMOR , Sec. B.S. Received December 7 , \mdash ; Read December 10 , 1903 .
Received in revised form June 15 , 1904 .
CONTIINTS .
Introduction ; S 1 .
Difference-equation of the generalised gamma-function ; S2 .
Weierstrassian forms of the function ; S 3 .
Exfension of the multiplica- theorem of Gauss and Legendre ; S4 .
Definition of ; S 5 .
Extension of Lommel 's product of Bessel functions ; S6 .
generalisation of the Beta function ; S7 .
Multiplication-theorem ; S8 .
Logaritbmic derivatives and other series ; S9 .
The form of a generalised ction .
is interesting to develope from simple principles a generalisation of the functions and .
Consider an infinite sequence ( 1 , , .
, then write ( positive and integral ) , . .
( integral ) .
In general for all values of we take .
The object of this note is to carry on this extension , to determine the generalised forms of the gamma function , and to investigate some its properties .
1 .
Consider the expression [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ] . . ! .
We can form a function !
in general , which is [ 1 ] [ 2 ] The infinite product is convergent if . .
Wherever in this expres sion terms of the type occur , the principal value of .alone meant .
If be a negative integer , the product is clearly divergent .
The Difference .\mdash ; We have But A isatiorb of th nctions and Therefo.re .
Since the infinits product ( l ) is also convergent , if , the expression for the metion in this case is ( 1 ) ( 2 ) .
In the limit when , these expressions ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) reduce to Gauss 's expression for Euler 's gamma function .
2 .
The Weierstrassian Form forth Function\mdash ; We obtain without difficulty from ( 1 ) that ( 3 ) .
Since also the series is absolutely convergent , so that we finally write in which .
ad In the case when \ldquo ; ( 4 ) .
and are extended forms of Euler 's constant 3 .
Since may be written . . .
( [ nx ] ) , in which , for brevity , denotes , and we have 66 Rev. F. H. Jackson .
[ June 15 , .
Let denote then , by means of the difference equation , we obtain .
If now throughout the infinite products , all expressions of the type denote principal values only , then is a single-valued function with a period unity , and for positive values of has no singularities .
It must therefore be a constant , and we find .
So that finally ( 5 ) , denoting a pseudo-periodic function analogous to .
} define as .
When , this theorem reduces to the multiplication-theorem of Gauss and Legendre .
4 .
In this article a generalisation of the function will be formed by means of the generalised factorial To deal with simple forms first .
In !
we replace by , and obtain ( positive and integral ) , so that .
1904 .
] A Generalisation of The expression . .
is written ( 2 ) , this nota tion being both natural and convenient in invesbigating the propertiae of the generalised Bessel function* Similarly ( 3 ) and are both positive integers , The function we are seeking is clearly for all values of and ? !
( subject to limitations of convergence ) ( 6 ) , which reduces if , to the function 5 .
Extension of Lomrnel 's product.\mdash ; To illustrate the use of the function ( 2 ) , we take , in which and are not restricted to integral valuss , so that !
denotes ( [ The function may be derived from ) ] invertin the base , when becomes .
We proceed to show that , denoting ( 2 ) or ' vol. 41 , part 1 , Nos. ( 1 ) , ( 6 ) .
'Lond .
Math. Soc. 68 .
F. H. Jackson .
[ June 15 , Multiplying together the two infinite series and , the coefficient of in the resulting series is .
We can sum this series of terms simply , as follows:\mdash ; In the case , we see that the expression is Vandermonde 's , and in the general case it is included under the following extension of Vandermonde 's theorem . .
( 9 ) .
Substituting for for , and the base into , we find in which , since is integral , denotes .
to factors .
Dividing both sides of ( 10 ) by ( ( } , !
and unrestricted ) we obtain ( 11 ) , which series we have seen to be coefficient of , so that ( 7 ) is established .
In the notation of the generalized gamma function @. . .
By means of this product ious series of squares of Bessel functions , and series of produets of pairs of Bcssel functions , be generalized ; for example , . . .
( Lommel .
) ] } 1904 .
] A jneral ation of the meteons an corresponds to ( 13 ) .
It is easily established that ( 14 ) .
This reduces to As remarked in article ( 3 ) ) is a pseudo-periodic fuIlction of analogous to .
The period is given by .
6 .
The tion ) ] denote the convergent infinite series 15 ) .
If , this series reduces to Consider ( 16 ) .
Integrating the series term by term , we obtain , after obvious reductions The series within the large brackets is a particular case of Heine 's series , whence ( 17 ) .
70 Rev. F. H. Jackson .
[ June 7 .
The Multiplication for the Funchon .
( 18 ) A particular case of this is If , we obtain ( Binet .
) 8 .
The Logarithmic Derivahves of the .
\mdash ; From the expression we obtain .
From this , ( 21 ) , which reduces when to Similarly , Jllog } ( 22 ) .
1904 .
] A Generalisatio of the Functions and , tain ssries of interest in co.l1lection with the function arc\mdash ; ( 23 ) , ( 24 ) , ( 25 ) .
In case , the series ( 25 ) is .
9 .
The Function .\mdash ; A function ( 26 ) with the properties is given in Whittaker 's , p. 201 , and is there to Alexeiewsky .
This function has been discussed in detail in a more general form by E. W. Barnes .
From ( 26 ) we obtain without difficulty * Lond. .
Soc. Proc vol. : ; 1 , pp. et seq. 72 A eneralisation of the Fnnctions and Let form a function ( [ 1 ] ) .
( 27 ) .
We notice that this function will reduce , factor by.factor , to , if we put .
From the infinite product we have In the case the evaluation of the limit is not fficult , since the expression so .

