Numb. 255 V. A Letter from Dr. Wallis to Dr. Sloan , Secretary to the Royal Society , concerning some supposed Alteration of the Meridian Line ; which may affect the Declination of the Magnetical Needle , and the Poles Elevation .
Oxford , June 21 .
1699 .
SIR , I Received ( two days since ) a Letter ( to me directed ) from an unknown Person ( without any name Subscribed , or mention of the Place from whence , ) con taining a Suggestion about some Variation of the Meridian Line , ( which , if so , may consequently affect the variation of the Magnetic Needle , and the Elevation of the Pole , ) which he desires may be Communicated ; and is Verbatim , as follows , For the Reverend Dr. John Wallis Geometry Professor in Oxford , these , June 12 , 99 .
Sir , This comes from one who is no stranger to your Abilities , though unknown to your Person ; however I presume on a Minute of your Leisure , without any further Apology , than that I hope it may tend to promote a Point of Learning .
Upon Reading the Philosophical Transaction , Num. 241 .
And as I was wondering how an ordinary Mathematician could miss so easy a thing as the drawing a true Meridian , I hit upon a Thought , that Meridians must needs vary ; but whether in such manner , and proportion , as appears in the Instance of that Transaction , I am not able to determine : Having contented my self with such skill in Astronomy as serves only to contemplate the wonderful Fabric of the visible Heavens , without adding so much Geometry and Arithmetic , as are needful for making Calculations .
What I would offer , is this , Taking for granted that the Earth moves , &amp;c. You know , that besides the Diurnal and Annual Revolutions , there must also be a Third , to account for that slow Motion of the fixed Stars , upon the Poles of the Ecliptic , in about 25000 Years ; which is solved by the direction of the Earth 's Axis from one Point to another of the Polar Circle .
And that direction being nothing but a certain wabble in the Earth 's Motion , must needs make the Noon-shade of a Perpendicular not lye always in the same Line .
I would request , that this hint might be improved in one of the next Transactions , if I were sure that it were not a Blunder .
But if so , I have this to excuse , that I have not made it tedious .
I am , Sir , your most humble Servant .
Now , this being a new Suggestion , and which ( if well grounded ) may be of considerable consequence ( both as to the Declination of the Magnetic Needle , and the Poles Elevation , ) and therefore deserving to be well considered : And , it not being very probable , that so careful a Man as Ticho , and those concerned in the Church of St. Petronio ( mentioned in the Transactions , Num. 241.)should be so much mistaken in the Meridian Line : I thought fit to recommend it ( as is desired ) to your consideration , and ( thereby ) to the Thoughts of others .
But , if there be ought of this nature ; it must arise from a change of the Terrestrial Poles ( here on Earth)of the Earths Diurnal Motion ; ( not of their pointing to this or that of the fixed Stars : ) For , if the Poles of this Diurnal Motion remain fixed to the same place on the Earth ; the Meridians ( which pass through these Poles ) must remain the same .
Your Humble Servant , John Wallis .

