110 Prof. R , Boyce and Dr. N. F. Surveyor .
[ Mar. 9 , I have much pleasure in thanking Mr. E. Everett for the assistance he has given me in the course of the preceding investigation .
III .
" On the Geometrical Construction of the Oxygen Absorption Lines Great A , Great B , and a of the Solar Spectrum .
" By George Higgs .
Communicated by JR .
T. Glazebrook , F.R.S. Received February 20 , 1893 .
[ Publication deferred .
] IV .
" Upon the Existence of more than one Fungus in Madura Disease ( Mycetoma ) .
" By Rubert Boyce , M.B. , M.R.C.S. , Assistant Professor of Pathology , University College , London , and Nusserwangi Fakirgi Surveyor , M.D. , M.R.C.P. Communicated by Professor Victor Horsley , F.R.S. Received February 21 , 1893 .
( From the Pathological Laboratory , University College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) Nature of Mycetoma.\#151 ; A very chronic , locally spreading inflammation of the foot , much less commonly of the hand ; characterised by the destruction of the tissues , great overgrowth of granulation tissue , and by the presence of very numerous , fish-roe-like particles , or more rarely of black particles .
Views held concerning Mycetoma.\#151 ; In 1874 , Carter held that the " fungus foot " was a veritable parasitic disease , due to the .
growth and extension , within the tissues , of an " indigenous mould .
" He came to the conclusion that it was one species , the Garteri .
Lewis and Cunningham ( 1888 ) concluded that mycetoma was " essentially a degeneration of the fatty tissues , independent of the local presence or influence of any parasites whatever .
" Bassini ( 1888 ) met with a case in Italy , the only one , as yet , observed in Europe , and concluded that the parasite was allied to the higher Fungi , either the Aspergilli or Mucorini .
Most recently , Dr. Kanthack brought forward evidence to show the identity or close affinity of the parasite with that of actinomycosis .
Our Views.\#151 ; That the black particles represent a curious metamorphosis of a large , branching , septate fungus ; whilst the white particles consist largely of caseous material and of the remains of a lowly organised fungus , presenting in very many instances some of the characteristics of the fungus of actinomycosis .
That both fungi are pathogenic .
The following observations in support of these views are based upon an

