]\gt ; 1878 .
] Sir W. Thomson .
Harmonic Anatyzer .
III .
A curve of order , in flat space of dimensions ( and no less ) , is always unicursal .
From this the author obtains a representation of the points of an dimensional space by means of groups of points on such a unicursal curve , corresponding to the methods of Hirst and Darboux for 3-dimensional space .
When is even , the system corresponds to that of poles and polars in regard to a quadric locus upon which the curve lies .
When is odd , every point is co-flat ( i.e. , points lie in the same flat ) , with the points of the osculant flats which can be drawn through ib. IV .
Every curve of order in flat space of dimensions is either unicursal or elliptic .
V. When the curve is unicursal , and is odd , the points of superosculation , or points of stationary osculant flats , are on the same flat .
But when is even , this will be the case only under a certain condition .
VI .
When the curve is elliptic ( or bi-cursal the class of the curve is , and the number of superosculants If we consider a curve of the order and deficiency , existing in : dimensions , flat cuts such a curve in points , such that the sum of each of the parameters ( Abel 's theorem gives equations between the parameters of points which lis on flat ) , for these points is zero .
And we obtain the theorem .
A curve of order and deficiency , not greater than , can at most exist in dimensions . .
" " Harmonic Analyzer Shown and explained by WILLIANf , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the IJniversity of Glasgow .
Received May 9 , 1878 .
This is a realization of an instrument designed rudimentarily in the author 's comnlunication to the Royal Society ( ' ' Proceedings February 3rd , 1876 ) , entitled " " On an Instrument for , the Integral of the Product of two given Functions It consists of five disk globe and cylinder inte , rators of the kind described in Professor James Thomson 's paper " " On an rating fachine having a new Kinomatic Principle of the same date , and represented in the annexed woodcuts .
The five disks are all in one plane , and their centres in one line .
The axes of the cylinders are all in a line parallel to it .
The diameters of the five cylinders are all equal , so are those of the globes ; hence the centres of .
the globes are in a line parallel to the line of the centres of the disks , and to the ] of the axes cylinders .
Sir W. Thomson .
Ilcarmonic A nalyzer .
One long wooden rod , perly supportsd and guided , and worked by a rack and , carries five forks to move the five globes and a pointer to trace the curve o11 the paper cylinder .
The shaft of the aper cylinder carries at its two ends cranks at right angles to one another ; and a toothed wheel which turns a paraIIel shaft , and a third shaft in line with the first , by means of three othertoothed wheels .
This third shaft carries at its two ends two cranks at right angles to another .
Another toothed wheel on the shaft of the paper drum turns another parallel shaft , which , by a slightly oblique toothed wheel working on a crown wheel with slightly oblique teeth , turns one of the five disks uniformly ( supposing to avoid the paper drum to be turning uniformly ) .
The cylinder of the inteoratorb .
, of which this one is the disk , gives the continuously growing value of Each of the cranks gives a simple harmonic ular motion to one of the other four disks by means of a slide and crosshead , carrying a rack which works a sector attached to the disk .
Hence , the cylinders moved by the disks , driven by the first mentioned pair of cranks , give the continuously .
values of , and ; where denotes the circumference of the paper drum : and the two remaining iuders give 1878 .
] Sir W. Thomson .
} ; where denotes the angular velocity of the shaft carrying the second pair of shafts , that of the first being unity .
The machine , with the toothed wheels actually mounted on it when hown to the Royal Society , gave , and was therefore adopted for the application .
By removal of two of the wheels and substitution of two others , which were laid on the table of the Royal Society , the value of becomes ( according to factors found by Mr. .
Roberts , and supplied by him to the author , for the ratio of the mean lunar to the mean solar periods relatively to the earth 's rotation ) .
Thus , the same machine can serve for analysing out simultaneously the mean lunar and mean solar semi-diurnal tides from a curve .
But the dimensions of the actual machine do not allow range enough of motion for the of tide-gauge curves , and they are perfectly sufficient and suitable for meterological work .
The machine , with the train giving , is therefore handed over to the Meteorological Office to be brought immediately into practical work by .
Scott ( as soon as a brass cylinder of proper diameter to suit the length of his curves is substituted for the wooden model cylinder in the machine as shown to the Royal Society ) : and the construction of a new machine for the tidal analysis , to have elevem disk glol)e and cylinder integrators in line , and nine crank shafts having their axes in line with the paper drum , according to the preceding description , in proper periods to analyse a tide curve by one process for mean level , and for the two components of each of the five chief tidal constituents\mdash ; that is to ] .
The mean solar semi-diurnal ; ( 2 .
) , , , , lunar ( 3 .
) , , , , lunar quarter diurnal , shallow water tide ; ( 4 .
) , , , , lunar declinational diurnal ; ( 5 .
) , , , , luni-solar declinational diurnal ; ia to be immediately commenced .
It is hoped that it may be com- pleted without need to apply for any ad\amp ; tion to the grant already made by the Royal Society for harmonic analysers .
Counterpoises are applied to the crank shafts to fulfil the condition that gravity on cranks , and sliding pieces , and sectors , is in iunl .
Error from " " back lash\ldquo ; or " " lost time\ldquo ; is thus prsvented simply by frictional resistance against the rotation of the uniformly disk and of the tertiary shafts , and by the weights of the sectors attached to oscillating disks .
*The actual numbers of toeth in the } of wheels constituting the truin : 80 and 109 : 110 .

