231 1902 .
] On the Gastric Organs of , , etc. viously stated in my memoir of 1894 ( vide supra ) and I discussed it more fully in 1897.* I refer to the matter now , merely to point out that the same determining cause which in the Eutheria calls the " corpus callosum " into being is probably functional in bringing into existence the " aberrant bundle " in the Diprotodontia .
When the relations of these commissural bundles in the four divergent mammalian groups\#151 ; Monotremata , Polyprotodontia , Diprotodontia , and Eutheria\#151 ; are carefully studied we are able to appreciate one \#151 ; and by no means the least\#151 ; of the reasons why the Eutheria have attained such a pronounced ascendency over the other three groups .
Their brain is that which has retained that particular modification of the commissural arrangement which not only furnishes the shortest and most direct path of communication ( c ) between the two hemispheres , but also permits of an unimpeded expansion ( which is so freely exercised by the corpus callosum ) .
In the other three groups , in which all the neopallial commissural fibres pass through the ventral commissure , the undue expansion of the latter would produce considerable disturbance in the surrounding structures , which in turn would exercise a restraining influence upon any marked increase in size in the commissure itself .
The development of any such commissural mass as the corpus callosum of the more highly organised Mammalia in the position occupied by its homologous fibres ( fig. 3 , a and b ) in the Monotremes and Marsupials would cause the most profound disruptions of the corpus striatum , optic thalamus , and the basal region of the brain , and the complete disorganisation of its whole .
For these various reasons the development of the corpus callosum gives the Eutherian brain a great advantage in the struggle for supremacy , which must have exercised a considerable if not predominant influence in making the Eutheria the highest Mammals .
" A New Interpretation of the Gastric Organs of Spirula , Nautilus , and the Gastropods .
By J. E. S. Moore and W. B. Handles , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor G. B. Howes , F.R.S. Received March 17 , \#151 ; Read April 24 , 1902 .
( From the Zoological Laboratory , Royal College of Science , London .
) Related to the stomachs of some Gastropods and Lamellibranchs there are two conspicuous appendages , the so-called crystalline style-sac and the so-called spiral caecum .
* " The Origin of the Corpus Callosum , " * Trans. Linn. Soc. of London , ' 2nd series , Zoology , vol. 7 , part 3 , June , 1897 , p. 61 .
232 Messrs. J. E. S. Moore and W. B. Bandies .
[ Mar. 17 They have long been known to exist in these orders , but have never been adequately dealt with from a morphological point of view .
Both have hitherto been regarded as enigmatical structures , capricious in their appearance or non-appearance , and in their relationships .
The first of these organs , the so-called crystalline style-sac , which characterises the stomach of some Lamellibranchiata , was shown by Collier* in 1829 to be present also in several Gastropods .
These results were subsequently confirmed by Huxley f in the case of Ptero-ceras , and they have much more recently been both confirmed and extended by Martin Woodward J and one of us .
S From these observations , there seems to be little room left for doubt , that when present , the style-sacs both of the Lamellibranehs and the Gastropods are homologous , and their appearance in two such widely separated groups indicates that they are of considerable antiquity .
Or in other words , the species which possess these organs are primitive in that respect .
The same may be said of the spiral caecum , for it occurs as an appendage of the stomach in many forms of rhipidoglossate Gastropods , and it is also found in relation to the gastric tubes of the Cephalopods .
Until lately the spiral caecum had not been observed in any but the most primitive of rhipidoglossate Gastropods , such as Pleurotomaria and Haliotis , but it is present in those forms of Bhipido-glossa where one gill has become suppressed , such as Trochus , and quite recently it has been shown by one of us|| that both the spiral caecum and the style-sac occur together as appendages to the stomach of the prosobranch Nassopsis .
Still more recently this same association of style-sac and caecum in the gastric apparatus of the Prosobranchiata has been found to exist in the genera Limnotrochus and Chytra,1T both of * * * S * " General Observations upon Univalves , " printed the ' Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal ' for 1829 , p. 231 .
f Speaking with wonderful acumen , when we think of the date\#151 ; 1853\#151 ; Huxley says : Of the pyloric sac\#151 ; this appears in various forms in a great number of the Mollusca , and seems to be always in a special relation with the liver .
In Atlanta it has been seen that its glandular parietes form the liver .
In the Cephalopoda , the hepatic ducts enter its representative , the spiral sac of Octopoda , the elongated sac of Loligo .
Pteroceras a very remarkable structure exists , which , so far as I am aware , has not yet been noticed .
The existence of a crystalline style in connection with the alimentary canal , has long been known in the Lamellibranchiata , but it has hitherto been supposed to be confined to them .
However , in Pteroceras , the pyloric sac contains a very complete style .
" T. H. Huxley " On the Morphology of the Cephalous Mollusca , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 143 , 1853 , p. 60 .
t *Proc .
Mai .
Soc. , ' vol. 1 , p. 143 , 1893\#151 ; 1895 .
S J. E. S. Moore , " The Molluscs of the Great African Lakes , " 'Quart .
Journ. Microsc .
Sci. , ' vol. 41 , p. 199 , 200 .
|| J. E. S. Moore , " The Molluscs of the Great African Lakes , Nassopsis and Bythoceras , " ' Quart .
Joum .
Microsc .
Sci. , ' vol. 42 , p. 190 .
IF Miss Digby , 'Journ .
Linn. Soc. , Zool. , ' vol. 28 , p. 434 .
1902 .
] On the Gastric Organs of , Nautilus , etc. 233 which , curiously enough , like Nassopsis , are members of the old marine fauna of Lake Tanganyika , and it also occurs in the genus Turntella .
It has often been stated that the crystalline style , and in consequence presumably its sac , occurs generally among the Rhipidoglossa , but so far as we hare been able to ascertain , this is not the case ; at any rate , the style-sac does not occur in Pleurotomaria , Trochus , Turbo , or Haliotis .
Nassopsis thus presents us with a stomach in which these appendages are more completely developed than in the Rhipidoglossa , and in this genus the gastric apparatus has the following relationships : The oesophagus leads into the stomach in the manner represented in fig. 1 , ce .
In the gastric chamber into which it opens there are several conspicuous glandular folds , and two of these ( s.f. ) which lead away from the oesophageal aperture contain between them the opening of a conspicuous " bile duct " ( b.d. ) .
As they recede from the oesophageal aperture they approximate together and become related to a complex spiral organ ( sp.c .
) which projects beyond the parietes of the stomach and constitutes the so-called spiral caecum .
At the opposite end of the stomach and constricted off from it by a raised annulus , there is another thick-walled diverticulum which is lined with a shining cuti-cular membrane ; this is the style-sac , and in Nassopsis it generally contains a semi-transparent mass of secretion , the so-called crystalline style ( fig. 1 , c.s. ) .
Thus of such a stomach it may be said that the intestinal and oesophageal apertures are related to a proper stomachic chamber which possesses two chief diverticula , on the one hand the style-sac , and on the other a complex spiral organ in definite relation to the principal bile duct , the spiral caecum .
It has generally been assumed that the gastric apparatus of a Cephalopod differs from , and is more complex than , that of the Gastropods .
But keeping the above condition of the gastric apparatus in Nassopsis in mind , we find that in Nautilus ( fig. 2 , or in Sepia , fig. 3 ) the oesophagus after becoming dilated into an expansion known as the " crop " ( fig. 2 , c.r. ) , leads into a narrow folded tube ( s.t. ) .
This tubular portion is connected with a diverticulum , the so-called " gizzard .(c.s .
) of the Cephalopods , but which like the crystalline style-sac of the Gastropods has thick walls , and is lined inside by a folded cuticular membrane ( cm .
) .
In Nautilus , moreover , the so-called gizzard is constricted off from the stomach proper by a thickened annulus , corresponding to that which separates the style-sac of the Gastropods from the stomach proper .
The gizzard of Nautilus is in fact a diverticulum of the stomach , and has exactly the same general structure as the style-sac in Nassopsis .
* W. B. Bandies , ' Anat .
Anz .
, ' 1902 .
Bd .
xxi , p. 201 .
With the exception of Turritella communis , both style-sac and caecum have Tiitherto only been found in association in the stomachs of the Halolimnic G-astro* pods of Tanganyika .
Messrs. J. E. S. Moore and W. B. Randles .
[ Mar. 17 Passing along the stomachic portion of the alimentary tube in Nautilus , we find that besides the diverticulum of the so-called gizzard there is another ( fig. 2 , sp. c ) .
arising in conjunction with two conFxo .
1.\#151 ; Gastric apparatus of Nassopsis nassa , dorsal aspect .
oesophagus .
C.s. , cut-edge of wall of style-sac .
its cuticular lining .
stomach proper .
Sf .
, the two conspicuous folds leading into the spiral esecum , Sp. c. Bd .
, aperture of " bile duct .
" Int. , intestine .
2.\#151 ; Dissection of gastric apparatus of Nautilus pompilius , dorsal aspect .
JBd arrow indicating position of aperture of bile duct .
" Or .
, so-called crop .
Other letters as in Fig. 1 .
1902 .
] On the Gastric Organs of etc. 235 gnicuous folds ( s.f. ) which lead into a convoluted valvular arrangement , which projects beyond the parietes of the gastric tube .
Between these folds the duct of the immense liver ( b.d. ) of Nautilus opens , ]ust as the duct opens between the folds leading into the spiral csecum o Nassopsis or Pleurotomaria among the Gastropods ( compare figs. 1 and \#187 ; \ Exactly the same results are obtained , but in even a more striking manner if we compare the stomachic apparatus of Spirula ( fig. 4 ) with that of Nassopsis.* In this , case the stomach proper is far better developed than in Nautilus or Sepia ( fig. 3 , s* .
) , and the correspondence between the different parts in the Cephalopod and the architsenoglossan Gastropod is at once clear and striking .
From these observations it would appear that if we take Nassopsis as a Gastropod , and either Spirula or Nautilus as a Cephalopod , there is nothing incomparable in the stomachic apparatus of these widely divergent molluscan forms ; on the contrary , they are exactly comparable in all their main features , and it would consequently appear to follow , firstly , that in both cases we are dealing with an extremely primitive type of organisation , and , secondly , that Nautilus among the Cephalopods and Nassopsis among the Gastropods retain a type o gastric apparatus which must have been possessed by t e common ancestors of both.t , .
... . . .
The different kinds of modification which this primitive gas nc apparatus has undergone in the more specialised molluscan groups may be exemplified by what is found in the following types : In Nassopsis , Spirula , Nautilus , and the Cephalopods generally , there is both a style-sac and a csecum .
In the Prosobranchiate Gastropo Paramelania there is a style-sac and a rudimentary csecum .
In ] ritella communis there is a style-sac , and only a portion of a csecum .
* In comparing the stomach of Spirula with other forms , we have been able to refer to the late Professor Huxley 's unpublished notes and drawings relating to this and other Cephalopods preserved in the Boy .
Coll , of Science , and it is most interesting to find that of all the Cephalopods examined the gastric apparatus I in Spirula shows the closest similarity to that of Nassopsis and Limnotrochus among the Gastropods .
Huxley always inclined to the belief that Spirula is e living representative of the Belemnites , and the above comparisons would certainly seem to show that it retains a very primitive alimentary canal .
f It is worthy of mention that the forms of Tamioglossan Prosobranclnata , which retain both the style-sac and the ceecum , if conchological deductions can be trusted , are among the very oldest of fossil forms .
The Capulid\#174 ; , to which Limnotrochus and Chytra are allied , extend back into the Cambrian , and the same may be said of the Pyramidelidse , which appear to be the ancient representatives of the Turn-tellidse of the present day .
Nassopsis , on the other hand , is more closely re a e to forms which , like Ampullaria , unite the characters of the Tamio- and Rhipido-glossate types .
All the Cephalopods are much later in origin , and it would appear , as so often happens , that they retain an archaic character which the living representatives of the older diatocardiate Prosobranchs , such as Pleurotomaria , have partially lost .
236 On the Gastric Organs of Nautilus , etc. [ Mar. 17 In Tanganyicia the valvular folds of the caecum are still more reduced .
In Strombus and Pteroceras there is a style-sac , but nothing comFig .
3.\#151 ; Dissection of gastric apparatus of Sepia officinalis\gt ; dorsal aspect .
Letters as in figs , 1 and 2 .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Gastric apparatus of Spirula , dorsal aspect .
After Huxley .
Letters as before .
parable to a caecum ; while in forms like Littorina and Vivipara there is neither caecum nor sac .
In the Lamellibranchiata there is often a style-sac , sometimes no trace of this , and there is no spiral caecum .
1902 .
] Cubical Expansion of Ice , etc. , at Low Temperatures .
237 Lastly , in the rhipidoglossate Gastropods , there is a caecum but appa rently no sac .
' / .
" , .
, In conclusion , it would therefore appear that the so-called gizzard of Spirula and Nautilus , and consequently the similar organ which appears in other Cephalopods , is in reality the homologue of the style-sac of the Gastropods and the Lamellibranchiata .
That in the Cephalopods only that portion of the gastric tube which lies between the orifice of the oesophagus and the intestine is the true stomach and consequently comparable to the true stomach of the Gastropods^ , while , lastly , the valvular diverticulum in relation to the " bile duct " in the Cephalopods is unquestionably the homologue of the similarly related and so-called spiral csecum which projects from the true stomach of the Gastropods .
" Coefficients of the Cubical Expansion of Ice , Hydrated Salts , Solid Carbonic Acid , and other Substances at Low Temperatures .
" By James Dewar , M.A. , D.Se .
, LL. D. , Jacksonian Professor , Cambridge University , and Fullerian Professor , Royal Institution , London .
Received April 16 , \#151 ; Read May 1 , 1902 .
The apparent specific gravities of boiling liquid oxygen which resulted from weighing in the liquid a series of metals and other substances were given in a lecture entitled " New Researches on Liquid Air , " printed in the Royal Institution ' Proceedings ' for 1896 .
For instance , silver , calc spar , rock crystal , and iodide of silver gave the respective apparent densities 1*1278 , 1*1352 , 1*1316 , and 1*1372 .
On correcting the weight of liquid displaced by each substance for contraction to \#151 ; 182'*6\#151 ; by calculating a Fizeau mean coefficient of expansion for the range of temperature employed , on the assumption that the parabolic formula might be legitimately extended to low temperatures , \#151 ; it was found that the real density of liquid oxygen so deduced for all the bodies used was , as a mean , 1*137 .
The determination of the densities of substances at the temperature-of the boiling-point of oxygen , \#151 ; and hence of their mean coefficients of expansion between that temperature and ordinary temperatures , opens out a very large field of investigation , from which , if a sufficiently large number of observations were available , valuable deductions might be drawn .
On account , however , of the expense and trouble of producing quantities of liquid oxygen , its use for this purpose is not likely to become general , although , when available , it is the easiest body to use in conducting such experiments , especially when the vacuum vessel containing it is immersed in a larger vessel containing the same fluid or well evaporated air .
The ease jwith which liquid

