A Paper was also read , entitled , " On the Nervous System of the Sphinx Ligustri ( Linn. ) , and on the Changes which it unrlergoes during a partof the Metamorphoses of the Insect , " by George Newport , Esq. Communicated by Peter Mark Roget , M.D. Sec. R.S. The author gives a minute anatomical description , accompaniedby drawings , of the development and arrangement of the nerves of the Sphinx Ligustri , and the successive changes they undergo during the last stage of the larva , and the earlier stages of the pupa state .
As this insect , in passing from its larva to its perfect state , remains for several months in a torpid condition , it affords a better opportunity of minutely following these changes , and of ascertaining in what manner they are effected , than most other insects ; and the great compara ?
tive size of this species renders the investigation still more easy .
While in its larva state , this insect frequently changes its skin : it enlarges rapidly in size after each operation , and the nervous sy ?
stem undergoes a corresponding development .
The author minutely describes the longitudinal series of ganglia , which extend the whole length of the animal .
He remarks that theeleventh or terminal gan ?
glion is distinctly bilobate , a form which , as suggested to him byDr .
Grant , is probably acquired by the consolidation of two ganglia which had been separate at an earlier period of development .
A detailed account is then given of the nerves proceeding from these several ganglia .
During the change from the state of larva to that of the perfect insect , the number of the ganglia is found to diminish in consequence of the approximation and conjunction of adjacent ganglia ; and the nervous cords which connect them are generally much shortened .
A nerve is described which , from the mode of its distribution to the stomach , intestinal canal , and dorsal vessel , presents a remarkable analogy to the par vagum , or pneumogastric nerve of vertebrated animals ; so that the author considers it probable that its functions are somewhat similar to this nerve ; as has , indeed , been already conjectured by Straus-Durckheim .
Another division of nerves exist , which , from the principal branches derived from each abdominal plexus being always distributed among the tracheae , near thespiracles , are perhaps analogous to the sympathetic system of nerves of the higher classes of animals .
When on the point of becoming a pupa , the nervous lobes above the oesophagus are found to be considerably enlarged , and to have assumed more of the appearance of a cerebral mass $ while , at the same time , the nervous cords descending from them are shortened and thickened .
The ganglia are brought nearer together , and their intervening cords lie between them in an irregular manner , the ganglia themselves being retained in their proper places in the segments by the nerves running transversely from them .
The nerves of the antennae are enlarged , and the optic nerves are become much thicker and shorter than before .
There is a remarkable en ?
largement of the thoracic nerves , particularly of those sent to the wings 5 and those belonging to the posterior pair of legs are curiously convoluted within the thorax , preparatory to their being uncoiled at the instant of the change being made to the pupa state .
These changes are foliowed minutely through several stages of development .
The author expects to be able to lay before the Society , in a subsequent paper , the results of his investigation of the remaining stages , and to offer some observations upon the manner in which these changes are effected .

