On the Spectrum of Cadmium in the Inactive Gases .
115 In cases where with sufficient accuracy whirling speeds higher than the second may be neglected we have , in the foregoing notation , JL + -J- = ft ] +\amp ; 2 + c3+ ... fll \#163 ; 1 % " and n }qT2 = ( ft'i\amp ; a ) + ( \#171 ; i4j ) + . . .
+ ( Vs ) + ... + iffn-1 ; the sum of all the second order determinants about the principal diagonal .
fii and n2 may thence be determined .
On the Spectrum of Cadmium in the Inactive Gases .
By J. K Collie , F.R.S. , and H. E. Watson , D.Sc .
( Received June 21 , 1918 .
) During the last few years some attention has been paid to the spectrum of gases in the neighbourhood of the cathode discharge , and , therefore , it is thought to be worth while putting on record some experiments that were made about ten years ago , but which were not considered at the time to be of sufficient importance to be published , as they led to no definite conclusion .
One of the authors* had noticed that , in a vacuum tube containing helium and mercury vapour , the orange mercury line 6152 appeared very brightly , although it is not usually seen at all in a tube containing a diatomic gas .
Continuing this line of research , other metals were experimented on , with those metals as electrodes .
It was at once noted that in many cases , at comparatively high pressures and low current densities , lines in the spectrum of the metals composing the electrodes were visible in the neighbourhood of the cathode , and often in other parts of the tube as well .
The following experiments were made , with the view of studying more thoroughly this effect .
Cadmium was the metal chosen , on account of the ease with which the metallic spectrum was produced , and also because the cadmium bright lines extend over a considerable portion of the visible spectrum .
Other metals that behave in fi similar manner are zinc , magnesium , lead , bismuth .
The gases experimented with were helium , neon , argon , and xenon .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 71 , p. 25 .
Mr. J. N. Collie and Dr. H. E. Watson .
The experimental methods adopted were as follows : Owing to excessive splashing of the electrodes , it was not possible to observe the spectrum of the cathode through the sides of the tube , consequently it was viewed end-on .
The cathode was cylindrical , 4 mm. in diameter and 25 mm. long .
A hole was drilled in one end .
This fitted over a stout platinum wire , projecting through the bottom of a small glass cap , and connecting with the exterior of the tube .
By this means it was possible to renew or change the electrode without breaking the portion of the tube where the platinum was sealed in .
The tube was about 2 cm .
in diameter , and rounded at the end opposite the cathode ; a capillary tube was joined at right angles , connecting with a wider tube containing the anode , which was of aluminium .
The current was supplied from five storage cells , and a powerful Apps induction coil .
By screwing up the hammer , the primary current was always brought to a fixed value before taking an observation , so as to make the results as comparable as possible .
An essential feature for the success of the experiment is the extreme purity of the gas in the tube .
The vacuum tube was always carefully purified by the usual methods , and thoroughly pumped out and heated before any gas was admitted .
A small quantity of gas was then introduced , and the heaviest current possible , without melting the electrodes , run through the tube for some minutes , and the gas pumped off .
After one or two repetitions of this process it was usually found that the desired effect was produced .
This could be recognised at once by the fact that the spectral lines both of the gas and of the cathode became visible with quite a small current .
If the gas was impure , the metallic lines did not show at all at low current densities , whilst , at higher ones , the material of the cathode was apt to volatilise suddenly , and then no trace of the spectrum of the gas would be seen .
The cadmium lines seen were the brightest of those which occur normally in the spark-spectrum , and were , in fact , those numbered 1-7 by Mascart and Soret , the wave-lengths being 6438 , 5379 , 5338 , 5086 , 4800 , 4678 , and 4416 .
Their intensities at different pressures were estimated by comparing them with one or two of the stronger gas lines .
One of the first points of interest noticed was that , with neon and helium , the effect could be produced with the gases at relatively high pressures .
In the case of neon at 60 mm. pressure , two of the cadmium lines could be seen , and , with helium at 40 mm. pressure , four of the cadmium lines were visible .
Another interesting fact is that certainly two of the cadmium lines , 5379 and 5338 , were often entirely absent , also the individual lines of the metal varied in a remarkable manner in tubes filled with different monatomic On the Spectrum of Cadmium in the Inactive Gases .
117 erases when examined under the same conditions of pressure and electric discharge .
A noticeable example is afforded by the two lines 5379 and 5338 .
In helium at 40 mm. pressure they are hardly visible , whilst at 5 mm. they are the brightest lines of the spectrum .
In argon they are not visible at all unless the pressure is reduced to 2*5 mm. , when they are faintly seen , while in xenon at 12 mm. and less , these two and 4678 are the only lines which appear on turning on a very weak current , the rest only becoming visible when the tube grows so hot that the cathode is volatilised .
More experiments were done with helium than with the other gases , because it is easy to obtain it very pure , and because the comparatively small number of lines in its spectrum made the identification of the metallic lines easy , also high currents could be passed without melting the electrodes .
A range of pressures from 40 mm. to 2*5 mm. was studied at two current densities , namely , 5 and 0*5 amperes in the primary circuit .
The intensity of the cadmium lines was of the same order as that of the helium lines , but none were quite as bright as D3 .
In the following Table the intensities are as follows : 0-2*5 = feeble , 2*5-5 = bright , 5-7*5 = very bright , 7*5-10 = brilliant .
Helium ( 5 ampbres ) .
Intensity .
Wave- length .
* 38 mm. 21 mm. 9 min. 0 mm. 2 #5 mm. 10 6438 Brilliant Bright Feeble Very bright At this pressure 10 5379 ?
Feeble Feeble Very bright Very bright the electrode 10 5338 ?
Feeble Feeble fused .
10 5086 Very variable to bright Very variable to bright Bright Very variable to bright 6 4800 Very bright Bright Feeble Feeble 7 4678 ?
Feeble Feeble p 5 4416 Bright Feeble ?
p Helium f0*5 ampere ) .
Intensity .
Wave-length .
1 38 mm. j 21 mm. 9 mm. 5 mm. 2 *5 mm. j 10 6438 Feeble Feeble Feeble Feeble Feeble i 10 5379 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; Feeble 10 5338 \#151 ; .
' \#151 ; Feeble 10 5086 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; Feeble 6 4800 Bright Bright Feeble Feeble Feeble 7 4678 \#151 ; \#151 ; _ \#151 ; 5 4416 Feeble Feeble \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; I he behaviour of the line 5086 was very extraordinary , for it varied in intensity in a most abnormal manner .
While the current was running Mr. J. N. Collie and Dr. H. E. Watson .
steadily , this line would flare up until it was nearly as bright as the brightest of the other lines , and then suddenly vanish without any apparent reason .
This phenomenon and the great increase in intensity of the lines 5379 and 5338 on reducing the pressure were the most remarkable occurrences in the case of this gas .
The effect in neon was not nearly so well marked .
At a pressure of 60 mm. pressure the lines 5086 and 4800 were visible , but the brilliancy of the neon lines at all pressures was so excessive that observations were difficult , and the red cadmium line was not easy to distinguish .
In the case of argon the lines 6438 , 5086 , 4800 , and 4678 were very bright at 21 mm. pressure , while those of the gas were much weaker .
The intensities did not change greatly on lowering the pressure , but the argon lines increased in number and sharpness .
At 3 mm. pressure only 5086 was to be seen , and even this disappeared on allowing the tube to cool thoroughly .
The lines 5379 and 5338 were not seen until the pressure was reduced to 2*5 mm. , and then only on passing a moderately strong current .
It was found difficult to obtain cadmium lines at all in the case of krypton , and the results were indefinite .
The case of xenon was similar , and the experiments with this gas were still more difficult , owing to the ease , with which the electrodes melted .
The heating effect , indeed , appears to be progressive , for with helium a current of 5 amperes in the primary circuit could be passed for some time ( provided the pressure was not too low ) without the tube becoming very hot , and in neon the electrode did not melt under these conditions .
In argon only half this current could be maintained for more than a few seconds , while in krypton the electrode melted almost at once with little more than 1 ampere , and in xenon still more easily .
Owing no doubt to this heating effect , two distinct phenomena were observed .
Firstly , with the very feeble currents the lines 5379 , 5338 , and 4678 became visible at pressures of 12 mm. and less .
This was the true effect as observed in all the gases .
Secondly , on increasing the current , in certain cases , the line 4800 appeared , followed by 5086 and then 6438 , this being doubtless due to the volatilisation of the electrode .
It is , however , curious that the lines should not appear simultaneously , and that the blue one should be first .
The xenon lines themselves were very diffuse and indefinite at pressures greater than 2 mm. , and those seen belonged to the second ( condensed spark ) spectrum .
Below 2 mm. the lines of the first spectrum appeared quite definitely and clearly .
The results of the experiments with argon and xenon in the form of a Table are as follows :\#151 ; On the Spectrum of Cadmium the Inactive Gases .
119 In ten- Wave- Argon ( 2 amperes ) .
Xenon ( 1 ampere ) .
sity .
length .
21 mm. 14 mm. 9 mm. 22 mm. 12 mm. 5 mm. 2 mm. 10 6438 Brilliant Brilliant Brilliant Yery bright Bright Bright Yery bright 10 5379 \#151 ; \#151 ; Feeble \#151 ; Feeble Feeble Feeble 10 5338 \#151 ; Feeble \#151 ; Feeble Feeble Feeble 5086 Very bright Very bright Brilliant Brilliant Brilliant Brilliant Brilliant Brilliant 6 4800 Brilliant Brilliant Brilliant Yery bright Yery bright Yery bright 7 4678 Bright Brilliant Brilliant Yery bright Bright * Yery bright Bright 1 5 4416 If the spectrum of the cadmium in the three gases helium , argon , and xenon be compared , there does not seem to be any obvious connection in the behaviour of any one line when pressure changes occur , or between that of the different lines in the same gas .
4416 is a bright line in helium at 38 mm. pressure , and is entirely absent in argon and xenon .
Again , 4678 is brilliant in argon and xenon , and almost absent in helium .
Also the change in intensity of the 6438 line in helium with a current of 5 amperes is remarkable .
When working with neon and argon a beautiful phenomenon was observed in the space round the anode , which consisted of an aluminium wire .
As no precautions had been taken to exclude mercury vapour , and at a pressure of 5 to 10 mm. the anode glow was often bright green , showing the mercury spectrum .
On passing a very feeble current , however , bright red striae of the gas made their appearance , and if the current was raised slightly , they were driven away from the anode into the capillary portion of the tube , reappearing when the current was decreased .
In addition it frequently happened that two bright red globules ( in the case of neon ) with tails in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the anode formed , and rotated round the anode .
When the positive pole of a magnet was held above them and a negative one below the rotation was usually counter-clockwise looking downwards , and the direction could sometimes be reversed by interchanging the magnets , but the phenomenon was indefinite and difficult to repeat .
On another occasion when the tube contained argon at 9 mm. pressure , a Jbright green ball of cadmium vapour formed at the cathode , with a red tail about 7 cm .
long .
The ball rotated slowly round the cathode while the tail stretched down the centre of the tube .
After running for some time , or on increasing the current , the globule usually bioke up and disappeared , and was only formed again after a long interval , 120 Mr. C. F. Brush , Sir B. A. Hadfield , and Mr. S. A. Main .
and then often in a mutilated form .
From the appearance it looked as if the argon and the cadmium gas were entirely separated , for the time being .
The reason for the appearance of the cadmium lines in the gas spectrum is difficult to account for .
The main fact to be borne in mind is that these lines become visible even with the feeblest of currents , when the tube and the electrode are quite cold .
The fact that they appear easily at pressures even as great as 60 mm. in the case of neon , differentiates the behaviour of the monatomic gases sharply from the diatomic gases ; but why this should be so is not obvious .
If the spectrum is due to small particles of metal at a high temperature which are torn from the cathode by the violent impact of positively charged 'gas ions , it is difficult to see why the same effect should not be produced by other gases , especially when the great range in the atomic weight of the inactive gases is remembered .
Also , if this be the reason , it would seem probable that the whole of the spark spectrum of the metal would be seen at once , and not only certain lines depending on the nature and pressure of the gas in the tube .
Further Experiments on Spontaneous Generation of Heat in Recently Hardened Steel .
By Charles F. Brush , Sir Robert A. Hadfield , Bt .
, F.R.S. , and S. A. Main , B.Sc. ( Received June 22 , 1918 .
) Introductory .
The special interest for metallurgists of the phenomenon described in the title of this paper , particularly owing to the help it gives towards understanding the still rather obscure nature of the causes of hardening itself , encouraged the authors to carry out further work on lines suggested by the results of our previous experiments .
The latter have been recorded in a previous paper , * which itself resulted from a still earlier paperf by one of us , in which the original discovery of the phenomenon was recorded .
This further work has added appreciably to our knowledge of the phenomenon and at the same time led to the discovery that , under certain * ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 93 , p. 188 .
t 'Proc .
Am .
Phil. Soc. , ' vol. 54 , No. 217 ( May-July , 1915 ) .

