]\gt ; [ 225 ] V. the roblem of Evolution in .
the Correlation of the Human Sknll .
ALICE LEE , D. Sc. , uith some Assistance KARL University College , London .
Received July 13 , \mdash ; Rend November 15 , 1900 .
NOTE .
The of this paper was presented by Miss LEE thesis for the D.Sc .
in , 1899 .
After its presentation Iiss L asked me to criticiso and revise it lvith a view to publication .
IllIless in the spring of 1899 and later pressure of other worl : prevented my completing this revision mtii now .
When IsIiss LEE started her work practically nothing been published on the tion of the parts of the skull ; since then an interesting paper appeared by Dr. BOAS .
To this refere1lcc is in the footnotes at points where there is agreement or greement his conclusions .
The )jcct is of such great scientffic interest , of such importance , that I urged Isliss LEE to cnlarge her original thesis by series of additional tions now in this paper .
I further rearranged good deal of her mnterial reworded some of her conclusions , but the reduction of the material and the inferences drawn from it are substantially her work .
been that of an editor , who wished to mould the author 's researches into a component of a wider series dealing generally with the tive d for the problem of evolntion in .
Such is the of my revision .
I have passed of course nothing which did not seem to me valid , ve suggested to uthor some cunae which could be filled up by a con sideration of additional dhta .
CONT .
Introductory ; on the Problems of . . . . . . . .
The tions .
Special of city , ttld the of ib mi11ation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
S 4 .
Chief Data used . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
) S 5 .
Results as to Means ) ility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Results as to Correlation S 7 .
Regression Equations for the Determination of Capncity . . . . . . . .
S 8 .
First Fundamental Prol ) : the Reconstrnction of the fr on ] for his Own Race .
S 9 .
The Reconstruction of the Individual from Second . . .
, 241 S10 .
Second Fun Problem : the Dctermin , of the Mcitn .
of Locul the ) ) . .
) VOL. CXCVf. .
2 Page S11 .
Personal Errors made in the Direct Determination of Skull-capacity .
Least square Formulae . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
245 S12 .
Formulae involving Total Height and not Auricular Height of Skull . . . . .
247 S13 .
ition from Mean Product of Diameters to 1roduct of Mean Diameters of .
249 S14 .
Third Fund mental Problem : the econstruction from the Iiegression Equations of cters not during Life . . . . . . . . . .
250 S .
General Conclusions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
260 \mdash ; On the Correlation of city Circumferenlial ements of tho Skull . . . . . . . . . .
, . . . .
261 ( 1 .
) THE reconstruction of an organism of only of its parts is a problem which has occupied the attention of biologists .
many years past .
CUVIER was the first to introduce in his 'Discours sir les Revolutions de la Surface du Globe , ' the idea of correlation .
He considered that a knowledge of the size of a shoulder blade , leg , or arm might make it possible to reconstruct the whole individual to which the bone had belonged .
The conception was taken up by OWEN , but has into discredit owin to the many rors made in attempts from a wide ouly of the skeleton , to econstruct forms the appreciatio of which depends eally on ement and an elaborate quantitative .
Such a theory having now been developed , and anatomists having provided large series of measurements , it has become possible to reconsidel the problem on a sounder basis , and to determine more closely the limits under which our modern methods may be safely applied .
The three fundamental problems of the sub.ject are : The reconstruction of an individual , of whom one or more organs only are known , when a series of ol.gans for of the same local have been measured and correlated .
As illustration , one may take the reconstruction of the ) obable s of an individual for medico-legal purposes when a only has been found .
( ii .
) The reconstruction of the mean type of a local race from a knowledge of series of one or more in that race , when a wide series of these and other Ol.gans have been measured in other aces .
As illustration , we may consider the reconstruction of stature of prehistoric and defunct races the measurement of their long bones , when the correlations between stature and long bones for some modern race have been determined from measul.ements made in the dissecting room .
Au important question in all researches of this kind is the legitimacy of applying results obtained for one local race to a second .
We know that the variability and of the edition of 1830 , the earliest iu .
Library .
Sce PEARSON , " " On the Stature of Prehistoric Races ' Phil. Trans , vol. 192 , pp. 169-244 .
An attempt is now beir , made by Professors VINDLE and PEARSON to collect from English dissecting ooms , and an elaborate seriss of measurements with the like end in view are now being mado in Strasburg on material .
DATA OF VOLUTION IN MAN .
correlation are not constant for all the local races of a species ; some of the limits of this legitimacy will be considered in this paper .
A very full discussion of the matter for the regression equations of the long bones the case of twenty local races in man by Mr. LESLIE is nearly completed .
( iii .
) The reconstruction of an organ in the living individual not measurable during life , from a determination of the size of accessible organs , and a knowledge of the correlation between these organs and the inaccessible organ obtained from measurelnents made on individuals of the same race after death .
As an illustr tion , we may take the determination of the skull capacity from surements made on the head of living individuals .
In all the three problems cited above , we can only obtain probable results , i.c. , we obtain the average value\mdash ; generally not very far from the modal value of the second organ in a group of individuals with their first organ equal to that of the particular individual measured .
The closeness of the result obtained is determined fairly accurately by the probable error of the array or group of individuals above referred to .
If , instead of reconstructing an individual , we reconstruct a local race from a fairly large number of organs , this probable error will be at once largely reduced ; but in doing this we assume the legitimacy of applying results obtained from one local race to a second local race .
( 2 .
) The whole theory of reconstruction is summed up in the determination of the regression equations .
It has been shown*that the most probable value of an organ .
, reconstructed from organs A is given by the expression . . .
, with a probable error . . . .
, .
, where correlation coefficient of and standard deviation of mean of - coefficient of is the following determinant , the minor to : ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' , .
'Phil .
, vol. 192 , p. 1 DR. A. LEE AND PROFESSOR K. PEARSON ON All the regression equations in the present paper have been worked from the above results , the most lengthy being those which depended on the evaluation of the numerical magnitude of the above determinant for the correlation of four organs .
special object of this investigation is to apply the theory given in the last section to the reconstruction of skull capacity\mdash ; to determine which of the measurements , length , breadth , height , or cephalic index of skull , or which combination of these measurements , will give the best result .
In carrying out this special investigation , all the three fundamental problems considered in section ( 1 ) naturally arise , and will be referred to below .
Further , certain problems regarding variation and correlation in man and woman also occur , and will be considered in their places .
The problem of the determination of the capacity of the skull has been one which has long occupied the of craniologists and anthropologists , and a great variety of methods have been considered and have found acceptance from one or another authority .
The ideal method has not , however , been yet discovered , and in the well-known ' Frankfurter Verstandigung ' of the German craniologists , the matter was reserved " " further consideration and has remained for a number of years in that unsettled state .
From a fairly elaborate system of skull capacity measurements made at University College by Miss C. D. FAWCETT , B. Sc. , it would appear that the same experimenter may , with very slight practice , reach surprisingly close results for the capacity by very diverse methods ; but that two different experimenters may give a mean skull capacity for a series which differs by 15 to 40 cub. centims. This of course only denotes about 1 to 3 per cent. of personal equation ; but it appears large when read in gross .
I cannot think that any nclusions as to relative racial differences ought to be based solely on diyergencies in skull capacity of less than 40 cub. centims. when the two or more series under consideration have been measured by different observers .
The knowledge of this divergence arising from the personal equation of different observers has led certain craniologists to suggest formulae for calculating the capacity of the skull without measuring its contents , but from urements of its girth , its height , length , or breadth .
These formulae seem to be unsatisfactory because they have not been based on a knowledge of the mathematical theory of correlation .
It will be shown in the sequel that a formula can be found which gives the average capacity of a series of skulls from their mean height , length , and breadth with a fair of accuracy .
In view of this it is a matter for consideration whether its use might not effectively replace the laborious and unsatisfactory methods of determining capacity by seed , shot , or sand .
These could always be fallen back upon should any suspicion arise that the formula in question was being applied to a too widely divergent local race .
( 4 .
) In selecting material for this investigation , I had to bear in mind results already reached by my co-workers at University College , but only in part at present published .
In particular , that there was comparatively small correlation between the parts of the skull usually measured , and , further , that such correlation as actually DATA FOR THL I OF yOLUTION IN IsIAN .
exists varles enormously , even sigll , as we pass one local another .
This want of correlation , or want of steady elation , in the parts of the skull , as compared with the correlation exhibited by the long ) , or ) parts of the ] land , is extremely interesting from the standpoint of evolution .
It would appear to be ] easier to modify a single character of the skull by selection without altering other characters than can be the case with other parts of the skeleton .
The measurements considered in this paper are : the greatest lengtl ) , greatest breadth of ] skull , height measured the auricular line , I the cephalic index , and the capacity .
In , the matel.ial several points had to be borne in mind : A sufficiently large series must be nsed .
As a matter of fact , 50 to 100 skulls are by iologists to ) a fair series , but such numbers are small from the 's standpoint .
( ii .
) Material must be drawn from as widely different races as possible , if to measure the legitimacy of applying results obtained from local race to another .
( iii .
) The capacities must have been determined competent observel .
S using approximately like methods of measurement .
The data which seemed to me to approximately fulfil these conditionls are the following : A series of Bavarian rische ) skulls measured by Professor J. given in his physischen ] ) ropologie der Bayern .
' this case there were 100 8 and 99 9 available .
A series of skulls measured by , a craniologist ined j German schools , and given in the aus der Medicinischen Facultat der nischen U ' Tokio , Bd .
ii .
, 1 ) this case , and are give1l for 76 skulls , there are and skulls for which , and I only are given .
A series of Naqada skulls discovered by Professor and measured by Miss C. D. , B.Sc. , on the ) of ' furter Verstandigung .
' I ] to thank her for allowing le to use results before publication .
In this case were ] 69 skulls , ) ?
skulls .
As supplementary and test sel.ies , I have ns1ed ) and 96 2 skulls of ftllcjent series ) of nnnntlieh Thebes in the Mook collection ig and 2.3 9 skulls of modelnEgy } ) tians in a The details of both these taken the great the German Anthropological Society .
* ( 5 .
) Starting with the series and ined eanH ( The part ulished stcly n the 'Archiv opologic .
' variabilities the results in Table I. below .
In this case the Aino may be looked upon as a primitive uncivilised and the Germans as a highly-developed civilised race .
An examination of this table shows that the Germans while gaining in breadth have lost in length , the mean auricular height for both sexes in both races remaining fairly stationary .
Thus the brachycephalic tendency is in this case accompanied by a loss oflength , is not merely a gain in breadth .
TABLE I. It will rtber be seen that the Aino are less variable than the Germans in all the characters under discussion , in both sexes .
The increase in skull capacity of the Gernlans o the Aino is less for the female than for the male , whilst in the variation of this character the change is greater for the female than the male .
Further , the riability of the two sexes is more nearly equal in the Ainos than in the These results in good accord with those obtained by KARL PEARSON in his " " Variation in Man and Woman by him and myself in our paper " " On the Relative riation and Correlation in Civilised and Uncivilised Races the conclusions there reached being\mdash ; Civilised races are more variable than uncivilised races .
* It mnt be noted that the Germans are not a town popnlation , skulls from the churchyard Inortumry ch pels ( -Hauser ) of limited rnral district .
DATA OBLEM OF LVOLUTION IN MAN .
There is greater equality of variation for the two sexes in uncivilised in civilised races .
Man tends with adyance in civilisation to gain in size on wolnan .
Woman tends with advance in to gain in riability on ( 6 .
) Turning to the tions obtain for Aiuo ns iven in Table II .
The correlation-coefficients for the Putting aside the somewhat erratic elation of city and indeY , we note for the Aino the feluale tions all less than the male , but the II.\mdash ; Coeflicients of Corl.elation . .
Made Aino .
Female Aino .
length .
Capacity and breadth . .
0700 Capacity and height 0544 city and cephalic iudo Length and ) Length and height Breadth and height ) .
0637 pacity and length Capacity and breadth pacity and height cephalic index Length and ) readth Length and height Breadth and height Gernran the female all greatel than the lllale .
Ful.thel .
, with the same omission in five out of the six cases , the Ain lllale is more highly elated than the Gel.man male , and in four out of the six cases the German female is more highly COl.relate( than the Aino female .
This is again in general eelnent with the results suggested in the second papel cited above , lamely : That correlation is more nearly equal for the two sexes in uncivilised than in civilised races , and That woman tends with advance to gain in correlation on man .
* This tion of the of the bove p is of interest , since thoy beeu called in question by E. T. Proc. Boston Hist. ) .
Cl ) .
are extremely small and his tment of them not entirely 2.32 DR. A. LEE ANY ) PROFESSOR K. ARSON ON In the Aino race the length is more highly COl.related with the capacity than the are .
In the German race , on the other hand , it is the breadth .
Thus we shall find for the Ainos that formulae involving the length , and for the Gelmans formulae involving the breadth , give the least probable error in the tionl of the capacity .
It would be of interest to investigate whether this result is a distinguishing mark of dolichocephalic and aces .
correlation of capacity cephalic index is , as I have said , somewhat erratic .
the Aino male and female it is quite sensible but negative .
In other words , in a dolichocephalic race , it would appeal as if dolichocephaly tended towards greater skull capacity .
the other hand , amollg the brachycephalic Germans , there is for the males a sensible elatiou of ) ositive kind between capacity and cephaly .
For the German women , howevel , we find this correlation less than half the probable error , and thus practically non-existent .
In .
to , if possible , more light on this point the results in Table III .
lvele worked out two aces , one of which is there more dolichocephalic than the Ain .
In this case very little can be laid on the 9 modern Egyptians ; they .
too few in number .
The ?
Theban mummies giye a sensibly zero correlation , but in the other cases the elation is clearly negative .
Thus there appears to be little doubt that in dolichocephalic aces those who ) ossess the character most kedly have the greatel skull ) acity .
TABLE III .
will 1 found data brachycephalic DATA FOR TH OF EyOLUTION IN deviation . .
088 We see that the correlation is in ffi cases positive , but it is in of the cases given is hardly sensible considering the size of the probable errors .
On the whole , I think we must conclude that while there is only a small relationship between cephalic index and capacity , yet that in brachycephalic aces greater roundness points to greater capacity , and in dolichocephalic races less roundness points to greater capacity .
In either case the emphasis of the racial character denotes an increase of capacity .
dingly , while we have been to draw some interesting general conclusions to the relationship of brachycephaly and capacity , it will be clear that the correlation ] here is far too uncertain to base eliable 1uctio formula upon it .
The ession formula .
capacity this case be found tu have , on the hole , the largest to give the esults)pplied to test cases selected at ( 7 .
) I turn to the general regression the of pacity .
These are given for the and Germans of both sexes in Tables V. to VIII .
It will be seen from these tables that the econstruction formulae based on the cephalic index has in each case the largest probable error .
Ful .
there , a very slight examination of the tables confirms the remark already made that for the Aino the length is a important factor than the eadth , and that for the Germans the breadth is more important than the length its .
as capacity is concerned .
In the former race , * The esult / to ) ' with BOAS , } Anthropologist , ' JuIy , 1899 , .
lndc VOL. DR. A. LEE AND K. ON formulae involving the length give , on the whole , a lower probable error in the value calculated for the capacity ; in the latter we must replace in this statement length by breadth TABLE V. for Aino ( 1 ) Probable of mean .
( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 9 ) 000328 Capacity is measured in cubic centims. , and length , breadth , and height in millinr lumber f which is determined .
cephalic index Dr. RAYZ BOAS , p. states : " " The relation between capacity and head-diameters is found to ) of , and lmong these the relation between diameter and cily is nlosl \ldquo ; , I Chink , is only true for fairly .
Hc is dealing Sioux Indinn sknlls with cphalic index DATA I OF TABLE VI .
Probable for Aino .
error of me ( 2 ) \mdash ; 164 .
( 4 ) \mdash ; ( 5 ) 9 .
( 6 ) \mdash ; ( 7 ) \mdash ; ( 8 ) 7 .
( 9 ) 000400 TABLE Formula for German males .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ; ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 9 ) 000332 for German males .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ; ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 9 ) 000332 for German males .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ; ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 9 ) 000332 for German males .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ; ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 9 ) 000332 for German males .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ; ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 9 ) 000332 for German males .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ; ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 9 ) 000332 for German males .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ; ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 9 ) 000332 for German males .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ; ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 9 ) 000332 Probable error of mean .
77.22 TABLE VIII .
Probable Formulae for German females .
error of ( I ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 9 ) 000383 It will be noticed that a formula , No. ( 9 ) , not hitherto referred to , has been introduced into these tables .
As capacity is of three dimensions , an attempt has been several times made by anatomists to determine a relation between capacity and the product , attempt seems to me to have failed because it has been based on a relation of the kind capacity constant whereas the mathematical theory shows that we should rather expect a relation of the type capacity constant constant , Of course , if , and differ only by small quantities , , from their means , the last relation may be written capacity , where 70 and represent constants , or products of small quantities where are constants , if we neglect terms of the order as compared with and , \amp ; c. *Rel tions of the form : capacity const .
( have also ) snggested .
DATA FOR THE OF EyOLUTION IN MAN .
This would simply throw us ) on the regression mnla ( of onr able Now the order of is of the order of } , or the coefficient of , sa 03 to 04 .
But deviations equal to may and do occur ; hence , in cases an error of 9 to 12 per cent. might arise , we were to assume that lula ( can be replaced in all cases by ( 8 ) .
, at lSIr .
's suggestion , rmed t of , and correlated this product the capacjty .
the Table .
I give the data for , German , and Naqada races ; \mdash ; TABLE IX .
Aino riation .
I supplement this table by the remaining data required for the three races fro ] Egypt TABLE X. cient Etians , eviationAncient Eians , For the Naqada race we deduce the regression fornlulae f the above results:\mdash ; Males Females The probable errors for econstl .
by aid of these :\mdash ; Males FemaleH Values cited from the in III .
Not We have ow all the data necessary for reconstructing the skull capacity , and it remains for ns to Cider how we can apply these to our three fundamental ( 8 .
) First Fundamental .
The construction of the Individual from the known his own Racc .
In order to illustrate the degree of exactness with which we can reconstruct the ndividual from their own racial data , a perfectly random selection of twenty was taken out of those of each sex for the Ainos and Germans , and their capacities reconstrncted from each of the nine regression formulae given in Tables V. to VIII . .
The results are tabulated in the following Tables XI .
to XIV .
, and will enable the reader to appreciate the degree of exactness with which it would be possible to reconstruct the capacity of an individual skull from any one or more urements made upon it .
results show us at once that the last five formulae are , when available , by the best to use .
( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , reconstruction from the auricular height and the cephalic , give occasionally very poor results .
The latter formula , of much interest from the racial standpoin need never be used for reconstruc , for the edge of the cephalic index means a knowledge of and , and accordingly we caIl always use ( 5 ) if not ( 8 ) .
An examination of the actual mean error made when we use all nine formulae and take the mean of results shows that , as a rule , we shall obtain less error by selecting one good formula like ( 8 ) or ( 9 ) and using that only than if we attempt to use them all .
In rouIJd numbers we see that the mean error made in reconstruction by these formulae is about 5 per cent. , but if we use ( 8 ) or ( 9 ) the mean error will lie between 3 and 4 per cent. The maXimum error reached by a good formula like ( 8 ) or ( 9 ) is upwards of 10 per cent. , but its occurrence is infrequent .
On the whole , consider this reconstruction of the individual from data for his own race fairly satisfactory .
It practically nearly as good as we get the reconstruction of stature from the long bones .
I would also remind the reader that the theory of correlation shows that we cannot hope to get better results .
We have solved the problem as closely as it can be solved , so long as the skull is a variable organ .
From a knowledge of the degrees of variation and correlation of an extended number of of the skull ( unpublished data ) , I feel confident that no external measurements can ) upon it which will give substantially better results than those When we bear in mind that two different observers , usin even * If we to tify crimincds , select characters to be meastlred and indexed which the lcast tion .
In the way to differentiate and specify races , it is best to select a gronp of ctcrs having the least correlation ; one such is certainly the cephalic index .
Sec PEARSON : " " On the Reconstruction of the Stature of Prehistoric \ldquo ; ( ' Phil. Trans , vol. 192 , pp. 188-189 ) .
An ppendix is devoted to a consideration of the horizontal and vertical girths .
DATA PROBLLM OF VOLUTION IN IsIAN .
2.3 DR. A. LEE AND PROFESSOR K. PEAliSON ON DATA OF LVOLUTION IN the same process\mdash ; if they have not worked together , yatching and comparing each other 's methods\mdash ; may easily differ by 20 to 40 cubic centims. in their determination of skull capacity for the skull , we appreciate that the errors made by our struction formulae are not much greater than the personal equation of two observers .
We may then conclude that our will allow us to make from the usual measurements of , and a fair estimate of the capacity of a skull , which is too fragile or too imperfect to have its cap city mined directly .
( 9 .
) The next problem undel this section is : The ation of the in from from a second .
This really involves the second fundamental problem , but for purposes of practical convenience I consider it here , justifying my application later .
I found results arose when I calculated individual Germans from Aino formulae except in the case of formula ( 9 ) .
This on the other hand gave almost as good results , as if the individual Germans had been determined directly from their own racial formula ( 9 ) .
To strate this , I give in Tables XV .
and XVI .
the reconstruction the selection made at random of forty German skulls , and further , a reconstruction for qada skulls also taken at random .
In both cases I calculated the capacity the Aino fornlula ( 9 ) .
German formula ( 9 ) applied to the Naqada g identical results .
ABLE X.\mdash ; German Capacity calculated from Aino VOL. CXCVI.\mdash ; A. 2 I TABLE XVI.\mdash ; Naqada ) acity calculated from Aino Formula ( 9 ) .
Now Tables XIII .
and XIV .
show that the mean made for the 20 8 and 20 ?
skulls , econstructed by the German formulae ( 9 ) respectively and cub. centims. The same skulls ucted from the Aino formulae ( 9 ) give meau errol .
S of and cub. centims. ; while the Naqada skulls have mean errol .
S of and cub. centims. respectively .
We thus conclude that within the limits of error occurring in reconstructing capacity , formula ( 9 ) as found for Rlly race may be ) fely used to calculate the capacity of individual of a different ce .
This is a important result , and its basis will be there considered in the next section of this paper .
We conclude ) an average errol of , say , 3 to 4 per cent. is all we shall make in to detel.mine the skull capacity of any not necessarily of the same race .
( 10 .
) Fun ' Problem .
On the } ) of the skull , of of from form ?
of a second race .
AliSON h shown in memoir , not yet published , that a general holds for the influence of un the egressiun formulae .
A statement of this the is given by him in the ' Phil. Trans , vol. 192 , p. 177 .
It may be Ulnuled u as follows : If selection has differentiated local races , then the regression will in general change from local race to local race , but that certain DATA FOR OF TION IN indirectl selected organs , when they have their ) ressed in terms of the directly selected organs , and any number of ectly selected gans will have regression formulae the same for the differentiated aces .
, if size the character chiefly selected , then the changes in the constants of the formulae will only be of the second or third order .
Without enfering into this and allied theorems to attack problem of of local races , 1 would note that for our purposes we seek will apply to all local aces , and the best formula will be one that is identical in its results for extremely different types of life .
Now a very short inspection of Tables V. to VIII .
that for neither sex are the constants for any one of the first ession foxilnat llike .
It seems therefore absolutely impossible to apply successfully any one of these any other local race .
On the other hand , considering the ) ucity of the skulls dealt with , there is a remarkable veen t constants of formula ( 9 ) for both races .
This agreement for different races striking confirmation when we examine the results for the Naqada race given on p. 237 .
I reproduce the whole series here : XVII.\mdash ; Reconstruction Formula ( 9 ) .
Males .
German formula . . .
Aino formula . . . .
Naqada formula . . .
Mean formula Females .
German formula . . .
Aino formula . . . .
Naqada formula .
Mean formula We could hardly have selected three more diverse races than Gerlnan , , and Naqada , and yet we have reached for sparse material a surprising identity of results !
If we want the mean skull capacity of any race for which , and are known , we have only to select the closest race out of Table XVII .
, or , failing owledge of racial relationships , the mean formula , and we shall obtain a result well within the error of the personal equation of two observers , or the differe1lces arising .
A. AND PROFESSOR K. ARSON ON different methods of directly determining capacity .
These points we shall now demonstrate numerically .
In Table XVIII .
a comparative illustration is given of the accuracy of formula ( 9 ) , and the failure of formulae ( 5 ) to ( 8 ) when they are applied from one local race to a second ; formula ( 9 ) alone comes out and comes out triumphantly from the test .
The errors made are from 2 to 5 cubic centims. on a total of 1300 to 1500 , or the largest error is less than 45 per cent. TABLE XVIII .
TABLE XIX.\mdash ; Reconstruction of Local Races from Formulae ( 9 ) .
DATA OF IN MAN .
In Table XIX .
a more elaborate investigation is made of only , using the four forms iven in Table XVIr .
and tabulating the erl.ors made .
We see that the maximum error of the mean formula is under 2 per cent. , and the avel.age error under1 per cent. These errors appear to me less personal observers , measuring the same series of skulls .
In fact , I am inclined to think that the errors of the mean formulae be as much due to the different observers who have determined the " " actual\ldquo ; values as to defects in the formulae them .
selves .
The close association of the Aino and German results specially noteworthy .
The results for the correlation snd , not only of the kull , but of the long bones of the Ainos , show a relation much to modern FuropeaIlS ( French and German ) than the latter bear to the NaqadaH .
The primitive Aino race appears to be in some manner much more closely related to the evolutionary ource of the Aryan races than either are to the Naqada .
On the other hand , it will be seen that the while giving bad results for German and Aino ves much better results than } ) do for both the ancient and modern Egyptians .
Its lnaximum error as applied to the yptian races is only slightly over 1 per cent. , while its average error as applied to all three Egyptian races is under4 per cent. The mean formula over-estimates the Aino and , and under-estimates the Egyptian races.ae The general rule for deducing the best result , would be to work with the formula for the most closely associated race .
But if no tion c be predicted , then we shall hardly have an error as large as 2 per cent. if we use the mean formula .
As this error is less than that frequently obtained by difTerent obseryers for the same series , I conclude that a fairly satisfactory formula has been reached for the reconstruction of skull capacity from external measurements .
( 11 .
) At this point it seems desirable to say a few words about errors made by different observers in estimating skull capacity .
believe the difference , of the same observer using different methods on the same skull ) ) to a very few cubic centimetres , but the ) ersonal equation of two obseryers using different even nominally the same methods on the same skulls will be considerable .
When the observers have been tl.ained in different schools and use different metbods the divergences may be very great .
The value of the capacity depends so largely on the amount of\ldquo ; packing\ldquo ; both in the skull and in the measuring glass .
Thus found with two very careful in vestigators measuring about fifty skulls , their differed by about 30 cubic centims. , and this difference was ately constant for each skull .
Three measurers using the same with great care got results individual skulls occasionally differing by eyen as mnch as 40 cubic centinls .
On * It should be noticed that the formulae givo ) .
results than the Aino for tbc 4lthough in cephalic index the Aino is mnch closer to the than is .
DR. A. { AND SSOR K. ON other hand one measurer using the same method soon obtained practically identical results in making re-measurements , and even one measuring in three different ways .
If reader will merely look at the Table .
which follows , , the capacity and chief dimensions of the skull for a number of races , he will easily convince himself that the differences in capacity must be largely due to the differences of person al equation and of method and not to the thicknesses of bone in the crania .
Take the Frenoh ( P ) skulls ; they are not decisively the largest in the series and yet they are credited with capacities which easily head the list .
For relative purposes it is almost impossible to credit different series with a correctness within 30 cubic centims. of the trus value .
Hence such deviations as we find in the second column of Table XIX .
seem well within the observational accuracy attainable , and I think it quite possible that if we had some further large series of , and determined by careful observers , we should have a formula giving more trustworthy results for the mean capacity than could be obtained by the direct measurement 01 an individual observer .
The averaging of a number of series would tend to eliminate the large personal equations which I feel sure exist in measurements of this kind .
TABLE .\mdash ; General Table of Skull-dimensions for divers Races .
xtracted for Professor from BROCA'S manuscript registers at Paris , the courtesy of M. From the German Catalogue .
Skulls of French prisoners who died in Munich during the Franco-German war .
( German Anthropological Catalogue .
) S Rough estimate , as were wanting .
DATA FOR THE OF EVOLUTION IN While I believe strongly in picking out the formula for the most closely associated race , I give the value of the constants for the male and female formulae as obtained not by correlation , but by the method of least squares the esults in Table For the males excludin the negroes , I find for the ten races : . . . . .
( 10 ) .
For the females excludin the negroes , I for the eight ces : Table XXI .
gives the capacities of the races as found from ( 10 ) and ( 11 ) .
Such equations should , I think , only be used when we have no knowledge of the evolutionary history of the race , which would lead us to adopt one of the special equations of Table XVII .
( 12 .
) In attempting to use the formulae given in this section , the reader must bear in mind that they can only be applied when the maximum length , maximum breadth , and the auricular height are known .
The latter measurement unfortunately is occasionally omitted in series of skull measurements .
If the total height of the skull be given , then the following formulae can be used , which have been calculated by the method of least squares from all the results in Table ? . . . . .
( 13 ) .
The following table includes results from ( 12 ) and ( 13 ) well from ( 10 ) and ( 11 ) :\mdash ; * Exduding for various ons the unsatisfactory French ( P ) , the French ( M ) , and the BadoIlser . . . . . . . .
( 10 ) .\mdash ; Calculated and Observed Capacity Races .
The table illustrates several important points , thus : We obtain less average error by estimating with than , or the capacity of the skull is better determined from the auricular height , than from the total height of the skull .
( ii .
) lf exclude the series which the values of the capacity seem to be doubtful , , the Badenser and French , we obtain ( bracketed numbel .
S from ( 10 ) bis , footliote , 1 ) .
247 ) a meaIl error of bout 1 per cent. and a maximum of per cent. For the series whole we have a mean error of about ) cent. with a maximum error of 4 .
cent. latter occurs the case of the Parisian French ; but I have not the least hesitatio in asserting the capacities of the French skulls as determined in Fran ce .
are quite incomparable with the pacities as determined by German investiators .
1 believe the French capacity is 60 to 80 cubic centims. beyond its true value , and I hold that my formula determines that value far more closely than the mean of the numbers ( 1560 ) given by MS .
registers .
I do not think it can differ by more than a few cubic centimetres from 1499 , and this difference is probably in defect .
Ir , will be seen that the Munich French skulls are somewhat smaller than the Parisian French skulls , but this does not account for the whole difference of 87 cubic centims. found by German and ench determinations .
It is largely a question DATA FOli THE OF VOLUTION 1 of method .
Mr. THOMPSON found for the cities of 398 and 55 Naqada skulls , 1339 and 1243 cubic centims. , but Miss C. D. using a different method on 68 and 989 skulls obtained 1387 and 1279 cub. respectively .
Something here is due to the difference of the ) , but as in the previous case the personal equation is the chief source of rence .
Now if differences of sample , of observer and of method will lead to nations of capacity differing by 3 to 6 per cent. , is not a great deal to be said for a which when applied to a sel.ies of results of a .
( like those of the best German determinations given bove ) leads to error of only per cent. as maximum ?
I should personally feel as content with the results in .
of my mean regression formulae and of the least square formulae ) .
, as with the average found for after days of ious determination of capacity by aid of Hhot , seed , or sand .
If the reader be not content with this degree of } ) tion , then I think no formula will satisfy him ; for being tly variable , the capacity is no definite function of dimensions of the skull , it is only elated with these dimensions , the ) robable error of the mnot be reduced beyond quite sensible limits .
The alternative to a formula is , of course , to make direct determination more uniform and exact .
Now I believe two observel .
S may be trained to get irly aocordant results , but will these results be the real capacity of the skull ?
May not the reality lie more nearly in the mean of the determinations of a number of careful observers measuring independently ?
Their errors may fall on either side of the truth , whereas a systematised procedure may give their a common bias .
Hence a formula based upon a fairly wide set of results by rent , but careful , observers may after all be more tl.ustworthy than direct determination by a conventional method .
It might , of course , be possible to reduce the convene tional method to physical exactness ; but I do not think this exactness is ched by the constl.uction of control skulls , which cannot cover all types ; it might possibly be done by opening each skull ( allowing .
the thickness of ) saw cut ) , and then filling either half .
But such process is laborious , it destroys the skull for some other purposes , when the true capacity been found we should have only the erage of a sample .
With the size of ) ) esellb available , the meau errors of the llleanfi amount to about 1 cubic centims. , 01 of the order of the errors of a good formula .
Hence physical exactness ( which would also improve the constants of the formula ) is not that is ( 13 .
) Accepting the product formula as a working esnlt , further question may still arise as to whether it is needful to form the 1I of whether we may content ourselves with the product of the mean of , B. and for the race .
The following table indicates the order of by using the product of means for the mean VOL. CXCVI.\mdash ; A. 2 DR. AN1 K. PEARSON ON TA XXII .
It will be found that whether we use the mean product or the product of the means will make on lie a few cubic centimetres difference in the estimate , something under the 1 per cent. , within which we cannot suppose our results to be correct .
Hence for practical purposes we may content ourselves with using the product of the eans , the detel.lnination of which is far less laborious .
Our least square formulae have all beeu based on the product of the means .
( 14 .
) Third Problem .
To reconstruct from } measurements an or on amism , i.e. , the skull from measu reon living It has been shown by KARL PEARSON Phil. Trans that if two chal.actel .
S and 7 ?
, four constants , then the correlation coefficient of is the that of on .
The regression coeflicient will be the same if .
Now in the of length , breadth , height , / , , and measured on the living head we have differences from their values as measured on the skull depending on the thickness of the living tissues covering the Hknll .
These tissues of course from individual to individual , but as the thickness of the tissues themselves are of the second of small quantities as compared with length , breadth , and height of the skull , we may safely assume that their variations will be of the like compared to those of , and .
We shall thus obtain a very oximation to the ression coefficients connecting the skull capacity -lengtb , breadth , leight , by usin those already found for the like quantities lneasnred on the skull .
Thus we should have formula ( 9 ) of the form . . . . .
( A ) where the mean readtho , and auriculal height of the living head , to be determined the meaSUl.ement of skulls .
thel , formula takes the form . . . . .
( B ) DATA FOR OF TION 1 where and are to be determined from skull measurelnents , give the mean differences between head and skull measurements .
What values are to be to these quantities ?
As we have seen , the constants of ( B ) do not yary local race to local race , while , on the other hand , differ very ) cider bl from race to race .
We shall hardly expect , therefore , to obtain as good results from ( A ) as from ( B ) .
Let us accordingly take ( B ) first , and consider , S H. WELCKER* the following measurements .
an average of thirteen males in middle life:-\mdash ; Thickness of flesh at ) of head 1nillims .
middle of forehead millims. , , top of crown .
, The values at the side of the head on orifices are not given .
But the results seem to show all of 11 to 12 millims. to be subtracted the head measurements when we vish to get those of the skull .
gives 6 millims. as an thickness of the tissues .
the skull .
Thus WELCKER and MERKEL are in good reement .
We can consider this matter from another standp oint .
I can find no head measurements from Bavarians or Badenser to with my skull measurements in Table XX .
, but the following table gives some results from nglish sources:\mdash ; TABLE XXIII.\mdash ; Mean Head Measurenlents .
The British Association measurements are averages obtained by myself the values given for several yearH in the " " Reports of the Anthropometric Committee\ldquo ; which are published in the TraIlsactions .
' They cover quite a ) ) " " anatomists\ldquo ; are the head measurements of thirty-five of the anatomists ttendil Todtenmaskc , ' , 1883 .
'Handbuch der ] .
I. , p. 13 .
Reports of Committee , lS89 . . .
} .
AND PROFESSOR K. ARSON ON the meeting of the Anatomical Society in Dublin , June 10 , 1898 .
They were Illeasured in the Anthropometrical Laboratory of Trinity College , and the data were published in the 'Journal of Anatomy ' in 1898 .
The University College stafl consist of twenty-five lnembers only of the staff of University College , London , measured by Professor KARL PEARSON .
The Bedford College students were measured by Miss C. D. FAWCETT , B.Sc. , and self , and were thirty in number .
In all these cases there were undoubtedly a good many heads not of English origin , but this was especially the case at the Anatomical Congress , where a number of foreign were present .
I should consider the British Association returns the most homogeneous and reliable for working with , but it is noteworthy to what an extent the Bedford ] ] women exceed in size of head the women attending the British Association meetings .
it would be impossible to compare the of the British Association neasnreltlen ts directly with the of the Bavarians , for the latter a mors brachycephalic race .
But ifwe compare with we find a difference of for 8 and for .
If we compare the corresponding results for the Aino , a race with somewhat the same deglee of dolichocephaly , we find diffel.ences of and respectively .
Although we cannot lay much stress this reafioghich supposes approximately constant for local , still it confirlns and results so far as it goes .
I think , without differentiating between the sexes , we shall obtain reasonable results by conthat we must subtract about 11 millims. from the head measurements in order to obtain the corresponding skull measurements .
This being so , we have the following fundamental equations deduced from the mean equation of p. 243 , to find the capacity from measurements on the living head:\mdash ; 8 \mdash ; 11 ( 14 ) ?
\mdash ; 11 If we use the British Association mean values in ( 14 ) , we find that for the mean skull capacity of the British\mdash ; no doubt English in the bulk\mdash ; the values 8 1495 cubic centims. 9 cubic centims. There appears at present to be no satisfactory determination of the skull capacity of English ulen vomen , and these results are , I believe , as reliable as any estimates yet formed .
* The ratio of 8 to 9 skull capacity would thus be , corresponding well with the ratio of brain weights , , as determined by REID and PEACOCK , but considerably higher than the ratio for brain weights given by and SIMS .
A rough sort of control formula for comparison with ( 14 ) may be obtained by substituting the British Association values for , and in the equation .
, " " Variation in Man and Woman ' The Chances of ' vol. I , p. 328 .
DATA THE PROBLEM OF EVOLUTION IN In this way we find : \mdash ; ( 15 ) .
This formula merely assumes that the factor multiplying the product of length , breadth , height remains the same , whether these quantities are measured on the head or the skull .
We now turn to the discovery of linear formulae corresponding to ( 8 ) of pp. 234 , 236 .
Here we are met by the very obvious difficulty that unlike formula ( 9 ) the constants of formula ( 8 ) change much from local race to local race .
If we take the formula for the Germans as being nearest akin to the English , we are met by the obvious fact that the constants change widely when we pass from a brachycephalic to a dolichocephalic race ; the English , indeed , have a cephalic index nearer to the Ainos than to the Germans .
Accordingly , in default of more ample data for striking a mean formula , I have inserted in ( A ) of p. 250 , the mean values of the German and Aino constants .
We thus have : , ?
Inserting the British Association mean values for , and , as well as the mean capacities found from ( 14 ) , we have : ( 16 ) . ?
Another linear formula may be obtained in an entirely ditNerent manner by taking the tangent plane at the mean to the surface in ( 14 ) .
Thus the skull measurement surface and the tangent plane is Now introduce the British Association values , remembering that , and we find : ( 17 ) .
Equation ( 17 ) will be found to give results excellently in accord with ( 14 ) ; it is the linear formula most comparable with ( 14 ) , yet the coefficients differ very widely from those of ( 16 ) , the height which is least influential in ( 16 ) being now the most influential factor .
It would have been satisfactory to find ( 17 ) more closely in agreement with ( 16 ) , but the universality of ( 14 ) on which ( 17 ) is based , is quite wanting in ( 16 ) .
Lastly , we may place here the linear formula found by taking the value of the German coefficients of formula ( 8 ) , and 2 , and using British Association mean values , we have : ( 18 ) .
The following table illustrates the degree of closeness of these various formulae as applied to 17 seleoted heads ofvery different sizes .
We observe that while the formulae give considerable differences in the absolute oapacities , especially in the case of the macrocephalic heads , the relative order of the heads as determined by all the formulae is the same with but two exceptions .
In the first place ( 14 ) , ( 15 ) , ( 17 ) and ( 18 ) give a relative order entirely the same , except for the slight displacement of Professor HOWES under ( 18 ) .
For the females ( 16 ) is also entirely in accord with ( 14 ) , ( 15 ) , ( 17 ) .
The second displacement is that of Professor WELDON'S head under ( 16 ) , which alters its place by two .
I can only account for this by the fact that Professor WELDON has a high cephalic index , and therefore the German formula was likely to give a better result than one based on the average of the German and of a less brachycephalic race like the Aino , TABLE XXIV.\mdash ; Skull Capacities from Living Head by Various Formulae .
DATA FOR TH1 PROBLLM OF VOLUTION IN MAN Thus of the two exceptions to complete accordance we see that only Professor WELDON'S head in the case of formula ( 16 ) presents any serious disturbance of the relative order .
On the whole , my methods will , I think , determine within reasonable limits the relative order of skull capacity from measul.ements on the living head .
It is noteworthy that except for the macrocephalic heads of Mr. LYNN THOMAS and Bedford College student No. 1 , formulae ( 17 ) and ( 14 ) give sensibly identical results , or there is one linear formula which gives results sensibly identical with those of the formula .
This shows us that the surface epresented by ( 14 ) is sensibly plane the range of skull measurelnents actually occurring .
On we may conclude that ( 14 ) ( its linear form ( 17 ) ) gives the best esults ; gives a good control formula ; while of formulae ectly obtained from the regression equation for length , breadth , and height , the German appears best for the nlales , the mean of the German and Aino best for the females .
For the emainder of my investigations on the capacity of the living head I shall accordingly use only the and ( 16 ) or ( 18 ) comparison .
I propose first to investigate whethel there is obvious between skull capacity and current appreciation of ability .
My first series is contained in Table XXV .
We have here the estimated skull capacities of -five anatomists .
The list contains the nanles of many of scientific reputation , of othel .
S of less distinction .
It will be seen that about the middle of the list , if we divide at D. HEPBURN , the eighteenth man , certain transfel .
S would occur the ) ) .
to the lower half , vice versed , if we judged by formula ( 18 ) and not ( 14 ) .
But these of men having oundly the same skull city , itnd I think that generally we may feel quite satisfied with the of the two series .
Now the })acity of } first eigrhteen anatomists is 1601 cub. centims. , of the last seventeen anatomists is 1468 cub. centims. There is thus a most substantial rence .
Yet he would be bold who would assert that there is a substantial average intellectual superiority in the first half In fact , a number of most capable men the J. LLNlANN , one of the ablest living anthropologists , has absolutely the smallest skull capacity !
My second list contains the estimated skull capacity of twenty-five of the teaching staff of iversity College , London .
I here the actual head measure- ments , as possibly of service future ; those of ) ublished in the ' Journal of Anatomy ' ( see ' above ) .
Here the first have a mean skull capacity of 1579 cubic centims. and the last twelve of 1436 cubic centims.\mdash ; again a We must remember that ( 14 ) is to be considel much better thnn ( 18 ) , for the change of its constttnts from race to race is far less .
The mean of the whole series as given by ( 14 ) is I is in the resnIts of the two methods .
Dh ' .
A. LEL AND K ON TABLE XXV.\mdash ; Estimated Skull Capacity of 35 Anatomists .
very sensible difference .
* The only differentiation I feel able to make between the two divisions here is that six out of the second twelve are mathematicians , and no mathematician has here head aboye the average .
In the first group we find not the exact but the descriptive sciences the arts .
No generalisation can be drawn , however , such narrow data .
We have only the suggestion of a field for further enquiry .
The agreement in Table XXVI .
between the results of formulae ( 14 ) and ( 18 ) is not so good as in the case of Table XXV .
, but the approximate general order is * The mean of the whole table is 1511 , which may bs compared with the 1537 of the anatomists .
Both ensil ) larger than the British Association mean .
The dat for 1000 Cambridge men classified ording to head measurements , branch of study and academic distinction , are at present being investig DATA FOR THE PROBLEM OF EVOLUTION IN MAN .
maintained , and only one interchange between the first and second groups would take place .
TABLE XXVI.\mdash ; Head Measul.ements and Estimated Skull Capacity of certain Members of the eaching Staff of University College .
My third last of Table XXVII .
, the estimated skull capacities of thirty women tudents of College .
I anged these students on a considerable personal experience of their work into three classes of ten each , representing clever , medium , and dull students .
I then divided the skull capacity list into three sections\mdash ; large , medium , and small capacity .
I was totally unable to find any correspondence between these two divisions into three classes .
I have used in this case formulae ( 14 ) and .
They giye results generally very good agreement , the general order not substantially modified when we one series to the other .
The mean found is cubic centllls .
, itnd The lues for from Dublin but they , I eliuve , VOL. CXCVI .
\mdash ; A. .
A. K. ON cubic centims. These are in fairly good agreement .
average thus very sensibly larger than that of the BritishAssociation women ( p. 251 ) .
XXVII.\mdash ; Head Estinuated Skull Capacity of 30 Bedford College Women Students .
Stndents .
From my Tables XXV .
to XXVII .
I conclude that there is cel.tainly no marked correlation between Qkull capacity and intellectual ability .
is another ) oint , however , from which these things may be considered .
I know of no measurelnents upon which a direct determination of the correlation of and skull city could be .
Of course , the two are not ; still , can hardly be doubt that they are highly correlated .
Now , if two quantities correlated with a third , it does not invariably follow that they will be correlated with each other.$ Yet I take it that it is rather quantity than density of brain stuff which is at the basis of the current belief that size of brain is closely related to intellectual ability , that any illustration of the absence of is with both ) , unless be ] seloction , the not with DATA FOR THE [ OF sensible correlation between skull capacity and bility will tend to weaken current conceptions as to a relationship between ) and intellectnal ilit v The whole problem of the relation of size of head to intellectual distinction as judged by popular standards is under gation f wider ; meanwhile , I think we may conclude\mdash ; That there is no marked correlation between , skull capncity and intellectual power in the case of either sex alone .
( ii .
) That brain weight must have a very considerable correlation with skull capacity , and , therefore , our data present nothing to encourage the belief that there is a relation between brain weight and brain power .
( iii .
) That arguments based on the relative brain weight of the two sexes a showing relative brain power require a more solid quantitative basis than they at present exhibit .
( iv .
) That such arguments as those of A. R. against the evolution of man 's intellectual powers by aid of natural selection turn wholly on the sizc of the brain .
But it would not appear from the above results that skull capacity at any rate is a character closely correlated with intellectual ability in the individual , and , therefore is quite not with racial So soon as data are forthcoming connecting the skull with brain weight , or still better , brain weight with head measurements , we shall ) in ition to reconstruct brain from head measurements .
I do not see that the error of the determination is likely to be much larger than that found in the case of skull capacity , but if it reached 8 to 9 instead , say , of 3 to 4 per cent. , it would still ) sufficiently approximate to give quite reasonable esults for numbers of individuals classified into big groups according to their ability .
It is , I hold , only by such methods that we can hope to reach any quantitative inty of a relatio between brain power and brain size .
Personally I am inclined to hold with Profcssol PEARSON that the complexity of the convolutions of the ) rain , and the variety efficiency of its commissures , rather than its actual , are the characters expect to differentiate race from race and sex sex , and to have developed with man 's civilisation .
I am not unaware that a correlation has often been af ; serted between ) and ability on the ground of the actual measurement of the weights of a number of men of genius .
But what is the of such brains compared with ?
The average brain weight of the bodies which the roonls of our hospitals , a large proportion of belong to emaciated and worn out .
Probably on the same basis a correlation eniu and , could * Before questioning whether mit ] or tivcly turc , the greater brain weight , it seems to scttlc whether } in or relatively to some other ctcr , has to with i Grftmmar of Science , ' 2nd easily be demonstrated .
because English women have a mean brain weight of .
n\rsquo ; wnd Frel ) women of we to argue that nglish women intellectually abler than French women ?
The fact is that to solve a problem 01 this kind we ought to keep within one fairly equally nourisbed class , and within one local race actually correlate brain size and ility .
I do not see how this can be done brain , but it seems to me quite possible for the capacity of the brain estimated from external measurements .
( 1 Cvnclusions .
I luave now completed the discussion of the three problems I roposed to investigate .
It will be seen that the accuracy of predictions depends sensibly on two factors : ( i ) the existence of data upon which the regression formulae can be based and ( ii ) the number of measuremeuts used to form an estimate .
in the third fundamental problem we do not get as good absolute results as we hope to do , because we have not really at present available the best data possible .
in the first fundamental problem we cannot expect to reconstruct capacity of the individual skull without a fairly large average error .
For it is of the very essence of the principle of variation , on which evolution itself depends , that in any ) ulatio we should have an arr .
of skulls with the same length , breadth , , and yet having within certain limits a variety of capacities .
All we can hope to say is , that with such a length , breadth and height such a capacity is most equent .
When we come to averaging a series , then we shall determine with far greater accuracy the mean of an array .
Here the nature of the problem is , however , ified .
The is now how far can we apply results deduced from one local race to a second .
We want in fact a " " panracial\ldquo ; regression formula to replace our regression formula .
As it is impossible to find such a regression formula for the itive stock from which man may be supposed to be derived , we are compelled to take the regression formulae which least changed as we pass from race to race .
The mean formula thence derived appears to give excellent results , when applied to detelmine the capacity of very diverse races .
While I do not profess to have solved the problems proposed to the degree of accuracy which might be obtained with wider data and measurements made hoc in the anatomical school , I yet consider that 1 have given practical solutions to the following problelns:\mdash ; The reconstruction of the capacity of the individual skull , when this cannot be measured directly .
This is done with a mean error of 3 to 4 per cent. ( ii , ) determination of the mean skull capacity of a race without the use of sand , seed , or shot , to a degree of accuracy comparable with that of the direct method owing to the personal equation of the measurers even when using the same method of direct determination .
The of the skull capacity of living individuals with a degree of accuracy sufficient to determine whether skull capacity is or is not closely correlated with intellectual power .
DATA FOR THE PROBLEM OF VOLTTTION IN MAN .
On the Correlation of Measurements on the Skull .
It may have occurred to some readers that other measurements of the skull beside length , breadth , and auricular height would give effective means of reconstructing the capacity .
The two that most readily suggest themselves are the horizontal circumference , say , and the vertical circumference , from the top rim of one passage over the top of the skull to the other , V say .
The following are the values for , and V for the Naqada skulls as measured and calculated by Miss C. D. FAWCETT , B.Sc. , who has most placed them at my disposal .
Naqada Skulls , 8 .
yCUOrgan .
304.423 yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
yCUOrgan .
Correlation .
6736 Naqada Skulls , 9 . . . . .
6588 \mdash ; \mdash ; The units are millims. for and V and cubic centims. ior .
From these following equations for the reconstruction of in terms of and V result For males : For females : ( 19 ) I have worked out somewhat fuller data for the collection of skulls of Mumrnies at Leipzig , the measurements of are .
in the German Anthropological Catalogue .
Ancient yptians , , 202 Skulls .
S. D. . . .
Ancient Egyptians , 9 , 96 Skulls . . . .
From these data I have deduced the following equations for reconstruction :\mdash ; For males : ( 20 ) ( 21 ) .
( 22 ) .
For females : ( 20 ) .
p.e. ( 21 ) .
( 22 ) .
Now , although the Naqada and Theban skulls have in some cases very close mean values\mdash ; and it is impossible not to consider the races very closely related\mdash ; yet the reconstruction equations for from and V differ very widely .
It is true that the Theban skull capacity calculated from the Naqada formula or the Naqada capacity calculated from the Theban formula do not give very bad results : DATA OF EVOLUTION IN IsIAN .
268 But this agreement does not arise from real dance in the formulae , but from the fact of the close equality of the Theban values for and C. To test the applicability of these circumferential formulae when extended from one race to a second , I take the data :\mdash ; .
These lead to the results for capacity:\mdash ; We see : That the and Theball formulae , although deduced kindred races and from very considerable numbers , to widely divergent results .
( ii .
) That the Naqada , which is French 8 better the formula , gives results worse than the based } ) discussed .
We conclude , thel.efol.e , it appears unlikely a reconstruction formula , based on the circumfel.ential measurements of the skull , cau be found which will give good results , if extended from one local race to nother .
If we apply these formulae to reconstruct the capacity within the race , ( 20 ) ( 21 ) give diffel.ences much of the order of the earlier reconstruction formulae ( 1 ) to ( 8 ) , while ( 22 ) gives results as good as ) .
The following table gives the errors made in the capacity of forty Theban skulls , twenty of either sex , chosen at andom .
It will be seen that the el.rorscaIl be fairly large when we use circumferential nents .
the skulls of prisonerb who } given in the Actual Values compal.ed with Values Predicted from Circumferential Measurements in the case of 40 Theban Skulls .
Finally for our ) \mdash ; that of uctiug the capacity of the living head\mdash ; there appeal .
S no obvious method of allowing for the difference between the circumferential measurements with without the living tissues .
Of course such surements as those now bein made at asburg in the Anatomical Institute may surmount this difficulty and enable us to ) redict capacity measurements un the living head .
It would thus seem that , as far as the present inyestigations go , circumferential measurements do not present great advantages over those discussed in the body of this , although the elations between capacity and these measurements appear , as yet been investigated , to have values .
* This is directl } opposed to the view of .
] ) .
BOAS thropologist , , vol. . .
Hc holds : " " It would seem that the most means of \ldquo ; HUE not , howovor , to the rements with the ions d to

