Effects of strong Magnetic Field upon Discharges .
179 " The Effects of a strong Magnetic Field upon Electric Discharges in Vacuo .
" By A , A. C. SwiNTON .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. Received June 10 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1896 .
A.s is well known , when the lines of force of a magnetic field cut the path of the cathode rays in a vacuum tube , the rays are deflected in one direction or another , according to the polarity of the lines of force .
If , on the other hand , the relative positions of the vacuum tube and the magnet are such that the lines of force and the cathode rays are parallel , the rays are not sensibly deflected .
Under certain circumstances , however , I have found that with the rays and lines of force parallel , other phenomena occur both in regard to the appearance of the discharge and in connexion with the internal resistance of the tube .
The apparatus employed consisted of a Crookes tube of the form illustrated , supported vertically over one pole of a straight electromagnet .
The tube , which was excited by means of a 10-inch Ruhm-korff coil , working much below full power , was about 11 inches in length .
The cathode terminal consisted of an aluminium plate at on6 end of the tube , and the anode a similar plate at one side .
The tube was exhausted to a degree that gave considerable green fluorescence of the glass , with a very slight trace of blue luminescence of the residual gas in the neighbourhood of the cathode and anode .
The magnet employed had a soft iron core 12 inches in length and 1|- inches diameter .
It was wound with 2376 turns of No. 18 S.W.Gr .
copper wire , which , when supplied with continuous electric current at 100 volts pressure , allowed from 13 to 14 amperes to pass , and magnetised the iron core practically to saturation .
When the Ruhmkorff discharge passed through the tube , the magnet not being excited , the general appearance was as shown in H " .
1 , the walls of the tube showing everywhere green fluorescence , which was especially strong all over the rounded end of the tube opposite the cathode .
A very small amount of blue luminescence could also be faintly seen just below the cathode , and also in the vicinity of the anode .
With the tube and magnet placed as in fig. 2 , as soon as the magnet was excited , the whole appearance of the discharge in the tube was found to alter immediately to what is shown in the illus-ti'ation .
Excepting for a very little at the top of the tube near the cathode , and a very bright spot at the bottom immediately over the magnet pole , all the green fluorescence of the glass disappeared , while extending from near the .
cathode to the bright spot at the .
180 Mr. A. A. C. Swinton .
Effects of a strong F * QS I * bottom of the tube , a very bright cone of blue luminescence with a still brighter whitish blue core , made its appearance .
When under these conditions the tube was slightly moved sideways , the bright spot at the apex of the cone , and the cone itself moved , the spot and apex always maintaining a position exactly over the centre of the magnet pole .
At the same time the minor blue luminescence proceeding from the anode terminal , due probably to the " make " current of the RuhmkorfE coil , was bent downwards towards the magnet as shown , and deflected sideways one way or another according to the polarity of the magnet , which polarity , however , did not affect in any way the vertical cathode stream .
The internal resistance ot the tube , as measured by an alternative spark gap on the RuhmkorfE coil , was also found to be very greatly diminished while the magnet was excited .
With the magnet not excited , the alternative spark would leap from 1^ to li| inches , while , when the magnet was excited , the gap had to be reduced to about inch before the sparks would pass .
As soon as the current from the magnet was cut off , the appearance of the tube immediately reverted to what is shown in fig. 1 , and its internal resistance increased to what it had been before .
Magnetic Field upon Electric Discharges Vacuo .
181 \#151 ; .
\#151 ; Experiments were also tried with the tube reversed as shown in fig. 3 .
In this case the internal resistance was affected by the magnet just as it had been previously .
The appearance of the tube was also altered by the diminution almost to vanishing point of the green fluorescence , the presence of very bright blue luminescence on the under side of the cathode next the magnet , some less bright blue fluorescence near the anode , and a considerable amount of faint blue luminescence throughout the remainder of the tube .
In this case , as in the other , the tube reverted to its normal appearance as soon as the magnet was demagnetised , and the appearance was the same whether the pole of the magnet next the tube was north or south .
Mr. F. G. Bailey .
Hysteresis of Further experiments with the tube placed horizontally so that the magnetic lines cut the cathode rays produced the usual deflection of the latter , but did not seem to have any appreciable effect on the internal resistance of the tube .
\#166 ; " The Hysteresis of Iron and Steel in a Rotating Magnetic Field .
" By Francis G. Bailey , M.A. Communicated by Professor Lodge , F.R.S. Received April 9 , \#151 ; Read June 4 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) That the hysteresis of iron varies with the conditions of magnetic change has been ascertained in some instances , notably those in which the attractions between the molecular magnets of the Weber-Max-well-Ewing theory are diminished by super-imposed vibrations in the

