58 Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ Jan. 8 , January 8 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Dr. Morrison Watson was admitted into the Society .
In accordance with the announcement made from the Chair at the last Meeting , the question of Mr. James Bateman 's re-admission was put to the vote .
It was decided in the affirmative , whereupon the Treasurer declared that Mr. Bateman was re-admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Experimental Researches in Magnetism .
" By Professor J. A. Ewing , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. , University College , Dundee .
Communicated by Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received December 5 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) The paper describes in detail experiments of which preliminary notices have already been published in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society , " vol. 34 , p. 39 , and in the " Philosophical Magazine , " November , 1883 .
The experiments relate to\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The magnetic susceptibility of iron and steel , the form of the magnetisation curve , and the changes of magnetism caused by cyclic changes of magnetising force .
( 2 .
) The influence of vibration on magnetic susceptibility and retentiveness .
( 3 .
) The influence of permanent strain on magnetic susceptibility and retentiveness .
Order/ ' Arts .
53\#151 ; 58 , it is shown that the general form of which the criticoid J2 is a particular case , enables us to solve for all orders the problem of destroying the .
second and third terms , that is , it mates it depend on the solution of equations of the orders 1 and 2 .
For other applications of the theory , see Cockle " On Primary Forms , " Arts .
6\#151 ; 14 , " Philosophical Magazine " for February , 1875 , vol. xlix , ser. 4 , pp. 134-142 .
See , also the " Mathematical Reprint from the Educational Times , " vol. 34 , pp. 109 , 110 } Question 6503 .
1885 .
] Experimental Researches Magnetism .
59 ( 4 .
) The energy expended in producing cyclic changes of magnetisation .
( 5 .
) The ratio of residual to total induced magnetism .
( 6 .
) The changes of induced and residual magnetism caused by changes of stress .
( 7 .
) The effects of constant stress on magnetic susceptibility and retentiveness .
( 8 .
) The changes of magnetism caused by changes of temperature .
( 9 .
) The effect of temperature on magnetic susceptibility .
The experiments were conducted on pieces of metal which gave as near an approach to the condition of uniform magnetisation as is practically attainable .
In some cases rings were used in a manner similar to that employed by Stoletow and Rowland , except that in the present Case the process of magnetisation was effected in a series of sudden steps , the total magnetisation being found by summing up the inductive effect of the steps .
In most cases , however , the author used straight pieces of wire , whose length was 300 or 400 times their diameter .
These permitted the use of a direct magnetometric method of observation , and consequently the magnetising force could be applied and removed continuously and slowly , instead of by sudden steps .
Preliminary experiments had satisfied the author that wires of this length gave as near an approach to uniform magnetisation as could be practically obtained by using rings .
Curves are given which show the behaviour of iron and steel in various states of temper , when subjected to a first application of magnetising force , and also to subsequent cyclic changes of magnetising force , such as complete or partial removal and re-application , or reversal .
The curves are drawn by plotting either the intensity of magnetisation , or the magnetic induction , in relation to || , the magnetising force : the characteristics of these curves and their relation to the physical state of the piece under examination are pointed Out .
Curves so drawn invariably exhibit the static lagging action to which the author ( in a former paper ) gave the name " hysteresis , " any cyclic change of || giving rise to a more or less nearly closed loop in the curve .
Attention was previously drawn to these loops by Warburg , who also anticipated the author in pointing out their important physical meaning , namely , that the area of a loop , or \#151 ; /J}d|p , is the measure of the energy expended ( per unit of volume ) in performing the cycle of magnetisation which the loop describes .
In the present paper numerous absolute measurements of this energy are given , especially of the energy which is thus dissipated in each reversal of the magnetism of a piece of iron or steel .
These show that while the dissipation of energy by reversal of magnetism is very much smaller in soft iron than in hard iron or steel , even in the latter its amount is very trifling , so that the principal part of the heat which is produced in the cores of 60 Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ Jan. 8 , electromagnets must be due chiefly to other causes than this static hysteresis , and is , in fact , due almost wholly to the induction of so-called Foucault currents in the cores .
The relation of this hysteresis to Weber 's theory of molecular magnets , as extended by Maxwell , is discussed , and the insufficiency of Maxwell 's extension noticed .
By vibrating a piece of soft iron during the application and removal of magnetising force , the effects of hysteresis are almost entirely removed , and the iron is then found to possess almost no retentiveness .
But when the application and removal of magnetising force are effected without mechanical disturbance , the retentiveness of soft iron is found to be even greater than that of steel .
In some cases 93 per cent , of the whole induced magnetism of a piece of annealed iron was found to remain , on the complete removal of the magnetising force .
It is pointed out that there is no discrepancy between this result and the well-known fact that a short iron core of an electromagnet retains almost no magnetism when the current in the magnet is interrupted .
In that case the ends of the magnet itself , after the interruption of the current , exert a sufficient reversed magnetising force to destroy almost entirely the residual magnetism .
But when , tested under the conditions which give uniform magnetisation and , avoid the demagnetising influence of the ends , soft annealed iron is more retentive than even the hardest steel .
Examples are given showing that the influence of permanent set in the curve of magnetisation is so marked as to give a criterion by which a strained piece may be readily distinguished from an annealed piece of metal , and that strain diminishes very greatly the magnetic retentiveness of iron .
Numerical values of the coefficients of permeability ( it ) and of susceptibility ( * : ) are given for a number of samples of iron and steel , and the relation of these coefficients to |j5 and |j is exhibited graphically after the manner of Rowland .
The greatest value of ft refers to soft annealed iron while under mechanical vibration , and is about 20,000 .
The next part of the paper deals with the effects of stress ( consisting of longitudinal pull , ) on the magnetic susceptibility and retentiveness of iron , and the subject is taken up in two different ways .
Iu one the magnetic effects are observed when a load hanging from the wire under examination is gradually applied , removed , and otherwise varied , the wire being then either kept in a magnetising field of constant value , or freed from all magnetising force .
In the other method the load is kept constant , and magnetising force is applied , removed , and otherwise varied .
The two methods give results which would be identical were it not for ( 1 ) hysteresis in the relation of magnetism to load , in a constant field , and ( 2 ) hysteresis in the relation of magnetism to field , under constant load , The relation of magt 1885.1 Experimental Researches in Magnetism .
61 netism to varying load in a constant field is examined at great length , both in soft annealed wire , and in wire hardened by stretching , and the effects , which are very complex , are exhibited graphically .
They also afford an easy criterion by which a stretched piece can be distinguished from an annealed piece , and , both in stretched and annealed metal , they exhibit static hysteresis , which can be more or less completely wiped out by mechanical vibration .
The connexion of the author 's present work with the earlier results of Villari , and the extensive researches of Sir W. Thomson , is pointed out .
Numerous curves are given , showing the relation to S[ to when the process of magnetisation is conducted while the piece under test is maintained in a constant state of stress .
These show very clearly the position of what Thomson.has called the " Villari critical point , " or point at which the sign of the effect of stress on magnetism becomes reversed ; and it is shown that this reversal is associated rather with a particular value of magnetisation than with a particular value of magnetising force , the same reversal being found to occur when the magnetism-dealt with is wholly residual .
Instances are given of very curious molecular reminiscences of previous loads , which were found to exist even when the previous loading had been performed at a time when the metal was entirely destitute of magnetism , and although the loads whose effects were found to remain were much less than loads previously applied to the same wire , and were consequently unable to produce mechanical change of any ordinary kind .
These residual effects of former loads became visible on the next magnetisation of the piece .
It is shown that these effects of previous loads can be almost obliterated by subjecting the wire to vibration before beginning to magnetise it .
The ratio of residual to induced magnetism in soft and hardened iron and steel has been examined for various degrees of magnetisation , with the result of showing that the ratio passes a maximum when the magnetisation is moderately strong , and then falls off as the state of so-called saturation is reached .
The influence of the presence of stress on this ratio and on residual magnetism generally has also been investigated .
The last part of the paper deals more briefly with the effect of temperature on magnetism , a subject already largely treated by G. Wiedemann and others .
The present experiments were specially directed to discover whether there is hysteresis in the relation of magnetism to temperature when the temperature suffers cyclic changes .
Careful experiments on both induced and residual magnetism have led the author to conclude that within the range of temperature dealt with by him , there is no perceptible hysteresis in the relation of magnetism to temperature .
Curves are also given exhibiting the process of magnetising the same piece at different temperatures .
These cross each Mr. W. H. L. Russell .
[ Jan. 8 , other in the same manner as the corresponding curves for different values of stress , a fact to be anticipated from the earlier discoveries of Baur .
The experiments , which have been of a very extended character , were made , during 1881-1883 , in the Laboratory of the University of Tokio , Japan , with the help of Japanese students , Messrs. Fujisawa , Tanakadate , Tanaka , and Sakai , to whom the author is indebted for much valuable assistance .
The results have been , almost without exception , reduced to absolute measure , and are for the most part presented graphically in curves which accompany the paper .
II .
" On certain Definite Integrals .
No. 12 .
" By W. H. L. Russell , F.R.S. Received December 8 , 1884 .
The following theorem must be implicitly known , although I have never seen it in print:\#151 ; Let g\#151 ; Xx +fiy + vz , +Miy -f-Nf .
rj\#151 ; X'x +fi'y +v'z , +N'f .
\#163 ; =\"x+p"y + v"z , Az=A"f+M"iy+N"^ Then fff dxdydz\lt ; fi(Xx+fiy + vz , X'x+fi'y + vz , + \#151 ; f/ S e0(\#163 ; Vi O^gdydg , where the limits of the first integral , and consequently those of the second , are given by an equation of limits , and 0 is a well-known constant .
Now let P=aas3 + bys + cz3 -+\#166 ; axx^y + a\x^z -\-b^y^x -f b\y^z -f- c^x+c\zzy + , and let the expression break up into three linear factors , so that P \#151 ; ( Xx ~f " fiy vz ) ( Xr x fx !
y-f- vz ) ( Xffx -h , which will subject the constants a , b , c. , to three conditions .
Then we have jjjw-y-..-.- \lt ; /V r(\#171 ; -r-)r(^-r-)r(7-f ) .
'(A + A'+A")(M+M'+M")(N+N'+N " ) r/ 1 + .+^+7_3\ / \gt ; A3 where l , m , n are positive integers , p a function of A , yu , v , X ' , \amp ; c. , which is different for each term , and \#171 ; + The limits of the integral are given by the equation x+y+z=l .

