]\gt ; .
E. P. Culverwell .
Maa.ima and Minima [ June another table , and follows tho " " march\ldquo ; first indicated by Dr. Hughlings Jackson as existing in epileptic seizures .
This march is in accordance with Axiom I , since the shoulder commences the series of movements in the uppermost part of the area , the thumb at the lowest part , and the wrist in the intermediate parb . .
That X is tlJe superior frontal sulcus of man .
2 .
That the movements of the joints are progressively represented in the cortex from above down .
3 .
tion of sequence of movements .
4 .
Localisation of quality of movements .
5 .
That there is no absolute line of demarcation between the different centres .
III .
" " On the ation of Maxima and Minima Solutions in the of Variations By E. P. CULVERIVELL .
icated by Professor B. WILLIAIISON .
Received June 5 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) In the first part of the paper it is shown thab the usual investigation by which the second variation of an is reduced , requires that the variation given to ( the undetermined function ) is such that its diflerential coefficients , taken with regard to ( the independent vaxiable ) are continuous up to the twice-nth order , being the Lighest differential coefficient of appearing in the function to be frated .
Bnt it is not necessary that the variation should be continuous beyond differential coefficient , and a method of reducing the to Jacobi 's form by a process which is not open to the above objection is then given ; and the method has the additional advantage that its simplicity enables it to be easily extended to other cases where there are more than two variables .
But in dealing with multiple integrals especially , any method depending on algebraic transformation is necessarily defective , inasas it is invalid unless solutions , which do not become either zero or infinite within the limits of the integration , can be found for a number of simultaneous partial differential equations containing at least as many unknown quantities as equations .
It is pointed out that it is not in general possible to obtain such solutions , and that even when the particular problem is assigned , it would be impractiable to ascertain whether there were such solutions .
The method given in the second part of the paper does not deper1d on or require any ] gebraic transformation .
The second variation is Solutions in the atculus of ariations .
taken in its unreduced form , and , by considerations founded on the degree of continuity required in the variations of the dependent variables , it is shown without difficulty tlJat , when the range of integration is small , the sign of the second variation is the same as that of a certain quadratic function .
The limits of integration within which this result is applicable are then determined by considerations depending on the continuity of the egrals .
The following is a brief sketc , of the method of ning the quadratio function on which the sign of the second variation depends .
Let the function to be made a maximum be\mdash ; ( the form of as functions of having already been determined by making the first variation vanish ) .
Taking the second variation by Taylor 's theorem , we may write\mdash ; when and typify any of the quantities , . . .
, or hei differential coefficients , and means that all such terms are to be taken .
Restricting ourselves to the case in which the limits are fixed , we have , . . .
zero at the limits , and similarly any differeutial coefficient of these quanhties must be zero at the limits , provided it appears among the limiting terms in the first variation .
Now if be any function of which vanishes when , we have\mdash ; Hence , if be a small quantity of order is also a small quantity of the same or a smaller order , and therefore if we require to obtain the of a quadratic function of and\mdash ; , we may neglect all terms except those involving .
Reasoning of this character is applied to the variations in , and the important terms ) thus picked out .
In this way a set of inequalities is ained which enable us to the important terms in , and therefore its sigu .

