An Account of the Skeletons of the Dugong , Two-horned Rhinoceros , and Tapir of Susmatra , sent to England by Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles , Governor of Bencoolen .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read M\larch 22 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 268 .
] In this paper , Sir Everard first describes , by reference to an annexed drawing , the peculiar form of the skeleton of the dugong , which he compares to a boat without a keel , with the bottom uppermost ; so that in the sea the middle of the back is the highest point in the water ; and as the lungs are very extensive , they render the animal buoyant .
As a compensation for legs , the dugong has a peculiar means of suspending itself in the sea , the centre of the back forming the point of suspension , similar to the fulcrum of a pair of scales ; this peculiarity explains the form of the jaws , which are placed at an angle with the skull , unlike those of any other animal .
There is no renmarkable difference between the bones of the two .
, horned rhinoceros , compared with those of the single-horned species , except that the projection in front of the skull , formed by the uniion of the nasal bones , is more nearly in a straigft line and more ex. T 14.8 tended ; in the viscera of these animals there is , however , a more marked difference .
The bones of the Sumatran tapir closely resemble those of the American , but the skull of the former has a broader frontal bone , and no middle ridge ; the nasal bones are larger , giving a proportionate increased dimension to the nostrils .
The skeleton of the tapir differs from that of the rhinoceros in the smaller extent of the scapulae and pelvis .
The stomach of the Sumatran tapir is shaped like that of the rhinoceros ; the oesophagus is smooth and cuticular ; the small intestines are 69 feet long ; the length and greatest breadth of the caecum is 1 foot ; the length of the colon and rectum is 19 feet 6 inches ; the spleen is long .
and narrow ; the kidneys conglobate ; and the lungs composed of one principal lobe on each side , of considerable length , and two smaller lobes .

