1887 .
] Candidates for Election .
March 3 , 1887 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair as follows:\#151 ; Andrews , Thomas , F.R.S.E. Atkinson , Professor Edmund , Ph. D. Bottomley , James Thomson , M.A. Buchanan , John Young , M.A. Burbury , Samuel Hawkesley , M.A. Buzzard , Thomas , M.D. Cameron , Sir Charles Alexander , M.D. Carnelley , Prof. Thomas , D.Sc .
Cash , J. Theodore , M.D. Corfield , Professor William Henry , M.D. Davis , James William , E.G.S. Denton , John Bailey , M.I.C.E. Dickinson , William Howship , M.D. Douglass , Sir James Nicholas , M.I.C.E. Ewart , Professor J. Cossar , M.D. Ewing , Professor J. A. , B.Sc. Forbes , Professor George , M.A. Foster , Professor Sir Balthazar Walter , F.R.C.P. Gowers , William Richard , M.D. Halliburton , William Dobinson , M.D. Hind , George Jennings , Ph. D. Hyde , Henry , Major-General , R.E. Jervois , Sir William 'Francis Drummond , Lieut-General , R.E. VOL. XLII .
Kennedy , Professor Alexander Blackie William , M.I.C.E. Kent , William Saville .
King , George , M.B. Kirk , Sir John , M.D. Lansdell , Rev. Henry , D.D. Latham , Peter Wallwork , M.D. Lea , Arthur Sheridan , D.Sc .
Lodge , Professor Oliver Joseph , D.Sc .
Lyster , George Fosbery , M.I.C.E. Matthey , Edward , F.C.S. Maw , George , F.L.S. Milne , Professor John , F.G.S. Ord , William Miller , M.D. Palmer , Henry Spencer , Colonel , R.E. Parker , Professor T. Jeffery .
Peddler , Prof. Alexander , F.C.S. Pickard-Cambridge , Rev. Octavius , M.A. Pickering , Professor Spencer Um-freville , M.A. Pointing , Professor John Henry , B.Sc. Pritchard , Urban , M.D. Ramsay , Professor William , Ph. D. Seebohm , Henry , F.L.S. Smith , Willoughby .
Snelus , George James , F.C.S. Sollas , Professor William Johnson , D.Sc .
M Mr. W. F. R. Weldon .
On a Stevenson , Thomas , M.D. Teale , Thomas Pridgin , F.R.C.S. Tenison-Woods , Rev. Julian E. , M.A. Thin , George , M.D. Tidy , Professor Charles Meymott , M.B. Todd , Charles , M.A. [ Mar. 3^ Tomlinson , Herbert , B.A. Topley , William , F.G.S. Ulrich , Professor George Henry Frederic , F.G.S. Walsingham , Thomas , Lord .
Whitaker , William , B.A. Yeo , Professor Gerald F. , M.D. The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Preliminary Note on a Balanoglossus Larva from the Bahamas .
" By W. F. R. Weldon , M.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Prof. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received February 15 , 1887 .
In October last , during a visit to the Island of Bernini , on the western edge of the Bahama bank , an organism was constantly found in the tow-net which closely resembled the larva of Balanoglossus recently described by Bateson , * In the youngest stage observed , this creature has an elongated cylindrical body ( about 0*8 mm. long by 04 mm. broad ) with rounded ends .
At the anterior extremity are two eye-spots , while near the posterior is a large and powerful ring of cilia .
An anterior region is separated from the rest by a deep transverse groove ; more than this cannot be made out by examination of entire specimens . !
A little later , a second shallower groove appears behind the first , marking off a smaller middle region of the body from the larger anterior and posterior divisions .
An idea of the shape 6f the body , just before the appearance of the second transverse groove , may be gathered from the nearly median longitudinal section ( fig. 1 ) .
In this section the mouth is seen to lie in the first transverse groove , on the ventral side of the body ; it leads to a well-developed alimentary canal , ending in a median posterior anus , not seen in the figure .
On each side of the alimentary canal lie two sections of body cavity ; the first ( fig. 1 , II ) can hardly be spoken of as a cavity , its lumen being never conspicuous , and often obliterated ; behind this is a well-developed posterior cavity ( III ) .
The body cavities of the two sides are separated * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 38 , 1885 , p. 23 j and * Quart .
Joum .
Microsc .
Sci. , ' 1885 and 1886 .
f I regret that my observations on the living larva are most imperfect .
Owing to my want of experience in protecting delicate organisms , after capture , from a tropical sun , I was frequently obliged to preserve the material obtained in an open boat , where microscopic work was impossible .
1887 .
] Balanoglossus Larva from the Bahamas .
Fig. 1 .
from one another in the middle line by a considerable interval , and the posterior pair especially leave a considerable part of the blastoccel unoccupied ( fig. 2 , Bl .
) .
The anterior nearly solid body cavities Fig. 2 .
are separated dorsally by a forward process of the posterior cavities ; so that a section so near the middle line as that drawn in fig. 1 does not cut them dorsally at all .
The anterior region of the body in front of the great transverse m 2 Mr. W. F. R. Weldon .
On a [ Mar. 3 , groove is occupied by a single unpaired body cavity ( fig. 1 , I ) , which obliterates the blastoccel .
This cavity is traversed by a number of longitudinal " mesenchymatous " muscles ( Me .
) , and carries on its floor a glandular organ ( 01 .
) , near which opens , asymmetrically , a short canal , which runs to the middle dorsal line , where it communicates with the exterior by a pore ( P. ) .
Immediately beneath the gland is a forwardly directed diverticulum of the gut ( Oh .
) .
It seems impossible to avoid identifying these structures with the proboscis gland and pore of Balanoglossus , and the subjacent " notochord " ; while the anterior paired body cavity represents the collar cavity , the posterior the trunk Cavity , of the normal Balanoglossus larva .
A confirmation of this view is given by the appearance , at a slightly later date , of a single pair of rudimentary gills ( fig. 2 , Br .
) .
The ectoderm of the larva , up to the point at which the gills appear , is very thick ( figs. 1 and 2 ) , and contains many mucus and other glandular cells ; while beneath the eye-spots is a well-developed " Scheitelplatte , " and beneath the general ectoderm a well-formed embryonic nervous system , the details of which I reserve for a later paper .
Just after the development of the gill-slits , there appears to be much variation in the conduct of the larvae obtained ; some exhibit indications of a normal development ; the majority , however , begin from this point to undergo a gradual process of degeneration , accompanied by considerable increase in size .
The shape of the most degenerate larva obtained may be gathered from the nearly median longitudinal section ( fig. 3 ) ; where the collar Fig. 3 .
1887 .
] Balanoglossus Larva from the Bahamas .
groove is seen to have disappeared altogether , while that behind the proboscis has become nrach shallower .
The external appearance is complicated by the formation , on each side of the proboscis , of a ( fl-shaped groove , the middle limb of which communicates with the post-proboscidean groove , while the margins of all the limbs are provided with short , broad tentacles .
The arrangement of this groove is indicated by the shading between dotted lines in fig. 3 .
Sections show that the mesoblastic organs have undergone considerable reduction , both relative and , in some cases , absolute .
The proboscis cavity is smaller ( fig. 3 , I ) ; its walls are thinner , and its muscles fewer .
The notochord beneath it has quite disappeared ; the collar cavities have disappeared ; while the trunk cavities are small and thin-walled ( fig. 3 , III ) .
No trace of gill-pouches remains .
The ectoderm is much thinner , and contains hardly a trace of any nervous structure except the much diminished " Scheitelplatte " ( Sch .
) , on which the eye-spots still persist .
In connexion with this degeneration of the tissues , it may be noticed that many cells , possibly phagocytes , are present in the blastoccel at earlier stages ( fig 2 , Ph. ?
) .
I was not able during my stay at Bernini to follow this creature further ; but at Nassau , New Providence , in the middle of the Bahama bank , I observed , during four months , a similar series of changes in a much larger larva .
This larva was first obtained at a period just before the development of the tentacular apparatus , and after the disappearance of the collar groove ( if this ever existed ) .
The collar and trunk cavities were both well developed , and the proboscis cavity , with its gland and pore , was as in the youngest Bernini forms .
Eye-spots were present , and there was a well-developed cutaneous nerve plexus .
In this form degradation was followed to a much fuller extent , till the ectoderm was ( except on the well-developed tentacles and beneath the cilia ) a mere flattened epithelium ; the trunk cavity was a minute solid rod beneath the ciliated ring ; the collar cavity disappeared , and the reduction of the proboscis cavity was carried much further than in the Bernini form .
I hope to publish a fuller account of both forms in a subsequent paper .
In the meantime , it is submitted that there is fair ground for the belief that the organisms described are BalanogloSsus larvae , which from some cause or other have been unable to develop adult characters , and have therefore varied .
Independent evidence shows that a probable cause may be the compulsory shifting of the larvae into deep water by the joint action of currents and winds.* If this be admitted , four things follow :\#151 ; , that , at least in some cases , the transmission by a larva of hereditary changes is only * These larva ; were practically all caught outside the 100-fathom line .
Messrs. Gr .
C. and P. F. Frankland .
[ Mar. 3 , possible on the application of the stimuli afforded by particular surroundings ; secondly , that some larvoe , in the absence of these stimuli , but in conditions otherwise favourable , are highly variable .
thirdly , that the variations produced by a given change in the environment may be of an uniform and definite character ; and lastly that these changes may result , not in the modification of ancestral organs but in the hypertrophy of those which are purely larval .
The last of these considerations leads to the hope that a further investigation of similar cases may afford a criterion by which to interpret larval histories in general .
EXPLANATION OP THE FIGURES .
Pig .
1.\#151 ; Lateral longitudinal section ( nearly median ) through a young Bernini larva , just before the appearance of the collar-fold .
Pig .
2.\#151 ; Transverse section through the trunk of a Bernini larva , at the time of the greatest development of the gill-pouches .
ig .
3.\#151 ; Nearly median longitudinal section through a degenerate Bernini larva .
he arrangement of the tentaculiferous grooves is indicated by shading within the dotted lines .
Reference Letters\#151 ; An. , anus ; Bl , blastocoel ; branchial pouch ; " noto-c lord of Bateson ; Ci .
, cilia ; Gl .
, proboscis gland ; M. , mouth ; Me .
, mesenchym " of proboscis cavity ; P. , proboscis pore ; PI . ?
, cells of blastocoel , possibly phagocytes ; " scheitelplatte " ; I , II , III , body cavities of proboscis , collar , and trunk respectively .
II .
" Studies of some New'- Micro-organisms obtained from Air .
" By Gr .
C. Frankland , and Percy F. Frankland , Ph. D. , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , F.C.S. , F.I.C. Communicated by E. Ray Lankester , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Zoology , University College , London .
Received February 15 .
1887 .
( Abstract .
) In pievious communications to the Royal Society by one of the authors , * details have been given of a number of experiments on the presence of micro-organisms in the atmosphere .
In these investigations a solid culture medium was employed , which not only greatly facilitated their enumeration , but also presented them in an isolated condition .
In this manner the authors have met with a number of * 1 .
The Distribution of Micro-organisms in Air , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 40 , p. 509 ; 2 .
" A New Method for the Quantitative Estimation of the Microorganisms present in the Atmosphere , " ibidvol .
41 , p. 443 ; 3 .
" Further Experiments on the Distribution of Micro-organisms in Air by Hesse 's method , " ibid. ,

