1881 .
] On Inhibitory Excitation in the Medulla Oblongata .
2 i ^ide separation of species apparently very closely allied .
Thns Ornith .
Ealiphron and 0 .
Amphrysus , Cram .
, are radically different in the forms of their respective harps .
P. Demoleus and P. Erithonius , so very consimilar in the shape , colours , and patterns of their wings , are quite unlike in their harps .
P. Bromius , P. Nireus , and P. Phorcas have the harp of a quite different type and plan in each !
On the other hand , P. Machaon and P. Arcturus are consimilar in armature ; while P. Agavus and P. Eector are as wide as the poles apart !
It must not be forgotten that the armature of not more than a sixth part of the 400 and upward described Papiliones is here represented .
A further prosecution of the inquiry will certainly bridge-over many gaps , and supply other characteristic forms .
IX .
" On the Propagation of Inhibitory Excitation in the Medulla Oblongata .
" By Dr. H. Kronecker and Mr. S. Meltzer , Candidate in Medicine , Berlin .
Communicated by Dr. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received October 18 , 1881 .
In the Royal Academy of Science of Berlin , on the 24th January , 1881 , a communication from us , " On the Mechanism of Deglutition and its Inhibitory Nerves , " was read by Professor E. du Bois-Reymond .
The experiments described were performed by means of a slightly inflated caoutchouc ball , fastened to the blind end of an oesophageal tube , the other end of which was connected with a Marey 's tambour , whose lever recorded the movements on the blackened surface of a rotating cylinder .
The ball was introduced , for varying distances , into the oesophagus , and the movements recorded resulting from the swallowing of small quantities of fluid .
It has previously been shown ( Falk and Kronecker ) that , in man and in the dog , the act of deglutition proper is accomplished by the quick contraction of the striated muscles , and that the draught reaches the stomach even before the oesophageal contraction can make itself effective .
In one of our former investigations , Mr. Meltzer , by experiments performed on himself , showed that a mouthful of water reaches the stomach in less than 0T second after being swallowed , but that the peristaltic action does not appear in the uppermost part of the oesophagus sooner than about 1*0 second after the beginning of the act of deglutition , and does not reach the stomach till 5 6 seconds later .
In the communication mentioned above , the results of still more recent investigations were given .
It was found that in the uppermost portion of the oesophagus of man , extending about 6 8 Dr. H. Kronecker and Mr. S. Meltzer .
[ Nov. 17 \#153 ; \#187 ; " 'r rr ; .x\#151 ; from the cardia , 8-9 seconds , and that the transition foZ'th " 0t s^lort ; er to that of longer contraction occurred in a short ' re^10n about 4 centime .
long , about the level of the manubrium stemT^fa a physiological characteristic of this region that in it tho t ' t rom the striated to the smooth muscles occurs ( E Weber ) ^ 10n In determining the period of latent stimulation for the purpose of measuring the speed of propagation of the peristaltic waves " it was found that the period increased not gradually but by bounds .
' Thus e upper portion of the oesophagus , 8 centims. long , measuring from the beginning , the period of latent stimulation amounts to from 1 0 seconds ; m the following portion , 8 centims. long , from 3 to Seconds IWtl m the Un , derm'St P'rtion ' from about 5*5 to 7 redex Lflia^ f^kese researches it appeared highly probable that the reflex ganglia of deglutition are arranged in three groups connected With one another .
But the experiments seemed afio to " show that \ !
f'Uar gTOUp ' plaC6d near t0 the other three , through 1C , 16 firSt reflex of the acfc of swallowing occurs .
This upper-most gr'ap is more closely related with the lower three than toe with one another , since we have found that the three regions of the oesophagus can contract , from above downwards in orderly sequence , wi out a first act of swallowing having occurred .
This happens in consequence of " eructation , " which effects a separate irritation on the three lower ganglion groups of deglutition .
When one makes a series of acts of swallowing quickly one after te other , as m drinking a glass of water , the registering ball shows that oesophageal contraction follows , and that only after the last of e series ; and its occurrence is timed , in reference to the last draught as it it had been produced by a single act of swallowing .
It therefore appeared :\#151 ; .
' I. That the beginning of every act of swallowing not only excites the oesophageal contraction related to it , bat , at the same restrains the contraction , excited shortly before , but which has not yet occurred . .
is inhibition is capable of preventing the contraction even immediately prior to its appearance .
It is therefore to be concluded that the restraining excitation raversing the direct motor tracts , outruns the motor excitation a vancmg throug\h the ganglion groups .
If a second act of swallowing occurs when the oesophageal con-raction , following the first , has already begun , this contraction can no onger be restrained .
In such a case , however , the contraction corresponding to the second act begins as late as if this second act had not been performed till after the completion of the first contrac-tion .
In other words:\#151 ; 1881 .
] On Inhibitory Excitation in the Medulla Oblongata .
29 II .
The second motor irritation is effective only when the contraction following the first has passed .
The anatomical tracts , along which this inhibition is condncted , we have found to be the ramifications of the ninth pair of cranial nerves , the Nn .
Glossopharyngei .
III .
If the trunk of the glossopharyngeus is irritated , no movement of deglutition results , in spite of the strongest excitation to deglutition , -duced by filling of the pharynx with fluid , or by stimulation of the Nn .
laryngei superiores .
Both the first reflex act of swallowing and the oesophageal contraction are for the time in abeyance .
IV .
If the pharyngeal branches only are irritated , then the inhibitory phenomenon appears in the cervical or in the thoracic portion of the oesophagus .
The pharyngeal branches of the N. Glossopharyngeus are not un-frequently distributed in company with the pharyngeal branches of the N. vagus , so that as a complete anatomical separation of the ninth and tenth nerve pairs cannot be effected ; neither can a physiological .
V. If the N. glossopharyngeus be cut through , the oesophagus falls into tonic spasm , which may last longer than one day .
It was in continuation of these researches , that the following new and noteworthy observations were made .
The excitations , which reach their centre in the medulla oblongata through the N. glossopharyngeus , exert an inhibitory influence , not only on the origins of those vagus fibres which supply the oesophagus , but also on the ends of the vagus fibres which excite the movements of respiration and restrain those of the heart .
Lastly , the inhibitory influences extend also to the centre in the medulla regulating the blood-vessels .
This can be shown in normal living man .
One can , by swallowing , easily observe the following :\#151 ; I. During each act of swallowing the pulse frequency increases .
II .
During a series of acts the need ' of respiration decreases .
III .
During each act of swallowing the blood pressure falls the aortic system .
This remarkable proposition , therefore follows : that excitations , which are conveyed to the centre along the tracts of the inhibitory nerves , extend in the character of inhibitions to neighbouring centres .
Continued researches on the operation of these newly discovered inhibitory nerves promise specially interesting disclosures , for this reason , that they can be set into activity through normal excitations , voluntarily produced , while the observations on the working of the N. vagus , the chief representative of the inhibitory nerves , can be performed only by means of artificial irritation , whose correspondence with natural irritation has by no means been admitted by all .

