Description of a new Barometer , recently fixed up in the Apartments of the Royal Society ; with Remarks on the mode hitherto pursued at various periods , and an account of that which is now adoptedfor correcting the observed height of the mercury in the Society 's Barometers .
By FRANCIS BAILEY , Esq. Vice-President and Treasurer R.S. Received October 25 , -Read November 16 , 1837 .
THE Barometer here alluded to may in some measure be considered as two separate and independent barometers , inasmuch as it is formed of two distinct tubes dipping into one and the same cistern of mercury .
One of these tubes is made of Jint glass , and the other of crown glass , with a view to ascertain whether , at the end of any given period , the -one may have had any greater chemical effect on the mercury than the other , and thus affected the results .
A brass rod , to which the scale is attached , passes through the framework , between the two tubes , and is thus common to both : one end of which is furnished with a fine agate point , which , by means of a rack and pinion moving the whole rod , may be brought just to touch the surface of the mercury in the cistern , the slightest contact with which is immediately discernible* ; and the other end of which bears the scale of inches , on which I have set off with great accuracy , from the standard scale of the Royal Astronomical Society , the distance of 30 inches from the above-mentioned agate point .
Above and below this mark of 30 inches , the usual scale of inches , tenths , &amp;c. is engraved ; and there is a separate vernier for each tube .
A piece of thin brass projects from the zero point of each vernier , across its contiguous tube , which , when the height of the mercury is read off , is brought down so that the lower edge of it forms a tangent to the column of mercury , in the usual manner .
A small thermometer , the bulb of which dips into the mercury in the cistern , is inserted at the bottom : and an eye-piece is also there fixed , so that the agate point can be viewed with more distinctness and accuracy .
The whole instrument is made to turn round in aziinuth , in order to verify the perpendicularity of the tubes and the scale .
It is evident that there are many advantages attending this mode of construction , which are not to be found in the barometers as usually formed for general use in this country .
The absolute heights are more correctly and more satisfactorily determined ; and the permanency of true action is more effectually noticed and secured .
For , every part is under the inspection and control of the observer ; and any derangement or imperfection in either of the tubes is immediately detected on comparison with the other .
And , considering the care that has been taken in filling the tubes , it may justly be considered as a Standard Barometer .
The specific gravity of the mercury was determined by Dr. PROUT to be 13,581 ; the thermometer being at 620 , and the barometer at 30 inches* .
The second part of the present volume of the Philosophical Transactions will contain the first register of the observations that have been made with this instrument .
The daily observations are recorded just as they are read off from the scale , without the application of any correction whatever .
This will be found , on due consideration , and after the details which I shall presently state , to be the most simple , and by far the safest plan of registering them ; whatever mode may be afterwards adopted of reducing and discussing them .
At the end of each month the uncorrected mean is deduced ; which mean , however , will also be given corrected agreeably to the usual formulae , to which I shall now proceed to advert .
The observed height of the mercury in a barometer requires several corrections ( differing according to the construction of such barometer ) in order to determine its absolute height , or that point when it may be considered strictly comparable with another barometer , either of the same or of a different construction : and , for effecting this end , certain conditions are previously understood , and universally assented to .
Thus , the temperature of the mercury is always supposed to be at the freezing point of water , or 320 FAHRENHEIT : the scale , by which the height is measured , if liable to expansion by heat , is always reduced to the standard temperature , which in this country is 620 FAHRENHEIT : the tube must be corrected for its capillary attraction : and lastly , proper allowance should be made , in certain cases , for the elevation of the place of observation above the mean level of the sea .
I shall speak of each of these in their ordert .
With these corrections duly made , the absolute heights of two barometers might be considered comparable with each other , although separated by the whole diameter of the globe : and with barometers , formed of tubes of a considerable diameter , and having a well adjusted scale , this is probably the case .
Yet as , even in the best barometers , there are still certain sources of discordance , some of which , although slight , cannot be altogether avoided notwithstanding our utmost care , such as differences in the specific gravity of the mercury , or in setting off the measure of the scale , or an uncertainty in the height of the station above the mean level of the sea , and , in the more usual ones , others of a more formidable and variable nature , depending on circumstances not yet sufficiently accounted for , it is always the most satisfactory method to compare them together , if possible , on the same spot , more especially where great accuracy is required* .
The correction for the temperature of the mercury is by far the most important , since it is in most cases more than ten times the amount of the correction for the expansion of the scale .
The correction , for both these sources of discordance and error , may be reduced to one general expression by the following well-known formula : viz. hX ( t -32 ) s(t 02 ) 1+m ( t where h denotes the observed height , as read off from the scale , which represents English standard inches when at the temperature of 620 FAHR. , m the expansion of mercury in volume , and s the expansion of the scale in length , for 10 FAHR. : t denoting the temperature of the mercury and the scale , which are supposed to be the same , and to be ascertained by the thermometer that dips into the cistern of mercury ; the slight difference which may exist in the temperature of the scale making no perceptible difference in the results .
According to the accurate experiments of MM .
DULONG and PETIT , it appears that mercury expands in volume 9990 ( = 000100100 ) for each degree of FAHRENHEIT'S thermometer : and , with respect to the linear expansion of brass ( of which the present scale is made ) we may assume it to be *000010434 for each degree of FAHRENHEIT .
Consequently the above formula becomes ho *000100 1(t 3Q ) O OOOO14s34 ( t 62 ) 1+ -0001001 ( t-3Q ) which , by proper reduction , becomes 000089566 t -0025530962 hX --0o0010 t+ *9967968 This expression may be easily formed into a table of double entry , which would be very convenient for correcting the observed heights of the barometer .
And it is agreeably to this formula that Professor SCHUMACHER-IaS constructed the tables which are printed in the first volume of his Astronomische Halfstafeln , showing the correction for every difference of half an inch in the height of the mercury , from 272 to 31 inches ; and for every degree of FAHRENHEIT from 6 ?
to 880 , to four places of decimals .
These tables , having been afterwards slightly corrected , were ( together with some others ) printed on a separate sheet , and distributed with No. 114 of his Astronomische Nachrichten .
They have been recently much enlarged by the distinguished author ; and The correction for the capillarity of the tube is very slight , and might indeed be safely neglected : but it has been considered proper that every source of anomaly , however small , should be pointed out and scrupulously allowed for .
The diameter of the tube of flint glass is 594 inch , and of the tube of crown glass e658 inch .
The correction for these , agreeably to the formula of LAPLACE , would be respectively + *0048 and + 0033 : but , in cases where the mercury has been well boiled in the tubes , the correction , as found by the formula , should be somewhat diminished .
If we strike off the last figure in each case , we probably shall not be far from the truth : and I have therefore proposed that the correction to be applied should be + 004 to the flint glass , and + 003 to the crown glass .
These are all the corrections that , in the case of the present barometer , require to be applied in order to ascertain the absolute height at the place where it is now fixed .
The correction for the height of a barometer above the mean level of the sea , is never applied except on especial occasions , and for some definite and express object .
The formula for such correction , whenever it may be wanted , is as follows * : d= + ~~f.lIt d-= + C4337 55 + 58Q 20t where d denotes the addition ( in parts of an inch ) to the height of the mercury in the barometer , when elevatedf feet above the mean level of the sea , in order to show the height at which the mercury would stand , provided the barometer were placed at that level .
So that , assuming the height of the station of the present barometer to be 97 feet above the mean level of the sea ( and on this subject I shall have some further remarks to make in the sequel ) , the above expression would become d= + ~h d50O90 + *60 t Whence , if the reading of the barometer , at the place where it is now fixed , were exactly 30 inches , and the temperature 600 , we should .
have d= + Q8s9= + 1045 Or , in other words , the height of the mercury in the barometer would in such case be 30 1045 inches , if placed at the mean level of the sea , instead of being in the apartments of the Society : and so in the proportion of 0011 inch for every foot below its present position .
But , as I have before remarked , this correction is wholly omitted in the Meteorological Journal .
I have been particular in giving these explanations as to the precise mode in which the corrections should ( and are now directed to ) be made , since it appears that great irregularity , as well as some inattention , error , or confusion has hitherto occurred on this subject , which ought not to have existed ; and the Meteorological Journal of this Society has lost much of its utility , confidence , and importance in consequence thereof .
Prior to the year 1823 , the registers of the barometer do not indicate whether the observations are corrected or not : nor can I obtain any satisfactory information on this point .
So that .
a person now referring to them can consider them only as approximate values .
The barometer then in use is still in existence .
In January 1823 the registers commence ( as I presume* ) with the new barometer which had been constructed in the preceding year under the able direction of Mr. DANIEL , now Professor of Chemistry at King 's College .
A description of this barometer is given by him in his Meteorological Essays and Observations , page 353 .
The daily observations are , in the register , said to be corrected ; but no formula or rule is given- , of the mode in which the corrections have been made : and if the observations have been corrected by the small table engraved on the face of the barometer ( which is the same as that given by Mr. DANCED in page 372 of his Essays ) , the result will in most cases , for the reasons which I shall presently mention , be slightly erroneous ; but more so as the temperature varies from the freezing point .
So that although , during the winter months , the results will not be far from the truth , yet in the summer they will not exhibit the correct values+ .
For , that table has been calculated " from the expansion of mercury and mean dilatation of glass : " it having been originally intended ( as I have understood ) that the divisions of the scale should have been cut on the glass tube .
But this plan having been abandoned , and recourse had to the ordinary mode of construction , it is evident that the expansion of the glass tube does not affect the observed height of the column of mercury sustained by the atmosphere .
The only effect which the expansion of the glass can have on the reading of the vernier , will be caused by an alteration in the relative capacity of the tube and the cistern ; but this would be so extremely small , on all ordinary occasions , as to be wholly imperceptible ; or at all events now inappreciable .
since we are not informed at what temperature the relative measures were ascertained .
The true formula for the correction of the expansion of the mercury alone is me ( t -3 ?
) h X ?
I &gt; ' +m ( -2 where rn denotes , as in page 433 , the absolute expansion of mercury for 10 FAHR. ( = *0001001 ) , and not the apparent expansion ( = 0000857339 ) as assumed in the table above mentioned* .
Besides this correction , there is another , which is peculiar to Mr. DANIEL'S mode of constructing this barometer , and which is called the correction for the capacity of the cistern .
As the height of the mercury in the cistern is constantly varying with the variation in the height of the mercury in the tube , it is necessary that the relative capacity , or contents , of the volume of the cistern and the tube should be determined ; as also some fixed point on the scale , as the zero of comparison .
This has been done with great care by Mr. DANIEL ; and the capacity of the cistern has been determined to be exactly l-th part of the capacity of the tube , and the neutral point fixed at 30 576 inchest .
So that the correction for capacity is 30 576 -A + 100 The diameter of the tube is 530 inch : the correction for capillary attraction is therefore , by LAPLACE'S formula , + 006 ; and this is the value that is engraved on the front of the barometer case .
The whole of the corrections therefore for Mr. DANIEL'S barometer will be as folk lows + : h.0001 001I ( t-32 ) 30576-k 0 hy X+* 0001001 ( t-:32 ) +O 100 + CO There is a short brass scale , of about 4 or 5 inches , on which the divisions are cut : but the expansion of this would , in no possible case , -cause an error of more than an unit in the third place of decimals : and as it is screwed to the wooden frarne , which is liable to expand and contract with different degrees of moisture , independent of the temperature , no correction for this purpose can be depended upon .
This is a great imperfection in the mode of constructing and fixing the scale of a barometer intended for very accurate purposes .
The specific gravity of the mercury was ascertained by Mr. FARADAY to be 13 624 : the thermometer being at 400 , but the height of the barometer not given .
I have already stated that prior to the year 1823 , the registers do not indicate whether the observations have been corrected , or not ; but that , commencing with January 1823 , they profess to give the corrected heights of the readings of the barometer , unexplained however as to the mode of correction .
This continued till March 20 , 1826 , when a temporary suspension of the observations took place .
From April 6 , 1826 , down to the end of the year 1836 , we are again left in doubt whether the daily observations are corrected , or not .
But the inference is that they were not corrected ; since we find a correction applied to the monthly means , for temperature and capillarity .
I have ascertained , however , on inquiry , that the daily observations have in all cases been partially corrected : that is , the correction for the capacity of the cistern has been applied daily , Why this correction alone , on each day , should have been considered requisite , I have not been able to ascertain ; and as it is nowhere mentioned .
in the meteorological journal , it may perhaps have sometimes led to error .
But leaving this part of the subject , I shall now proceed to notice the loose manner in which the remaining correction ( for temperature ) has been from time to time applied to the monthly means .
From April 6 , 1826 , to the end of that year , the temperature has been taken from the external thermometer , instead of the thermometer which dips into the cistern of mercury .
Consequently all the reduced values of the readings are too great .
By the external thermometer , I mean the thermometer which is placed outside of the building , and consequently gives the temperature of the open air .
In the year 1827 this error appears to have been discovered and discontinued ; but another of a different nature was at the same time introduced .
For , from that epoch to the end of the year 1836 , all the corrections are made under the assumption that the height of the mercury in the barometer was exactly 30 inches : when it is welt known that the correction will vary according to the variation in the height .
In fact there does not appear , at any time , to have been any regular and uniform system of reduction adopted .
Now this state of confusion and uncertainty ought not to exist in a meteorological journal emanating from this Society , more especially as the true values are as easily attainable as the approximate ones .
And although , in a general point of view , the minute differences caused by such errors may be unimportant , yet as appeals are frequently made to the barometer of this Society , as a standard , by persons engaged in important researches , the most scrupulous accuracy ought to be adopted and pursued , and the fullest explanation placed on record .
And notwithstanding the details which have here given may create some doubt respecting the accuracy of the past , yet I am persuaded that the system now pursued will inspire more confidence for the future .
It is on this account that I have entered thus at large on the subject : trusting that what I have here stated will not only tend to preserve for the future a more correct and uniform system , but also justify the Council in directing that the register should henceforth contain the daily observations uncorrected , and thus prevent the possibility of any similar confusion and mistakes hereafter .
I shall now say a few words respecting the height of the barometer above the mean level of the sea ; a subject of much interest to many persons engaged in various pursuits , but which appears , from the notes attached , at different periods , to the meteorological journal of this Society , to be involved in some confusion and uncertainty .
Thus , prior to the year 1823 , the cistern of the barometer is said to be 81 feet above the level of low-water spring tides at Somerset House ; but without any information how this was connected with the sea .
From 1823 to 1825 , both inclusive , it is said to be 100 feet above the same level .
And from 1826 to 1836 , both inclusive , the above indication is omitted , and the height is said to be 83 feet 2inches above afixed mark on Waterloo Bridge ; or " above the mean level of the sea ( presumed about ) 95 feet .
" The discordance between the 81 feet and the 100 feet is easily accounted *for by the fact that the old barometer , prior to 1823 , was fixed up in the Council-room .
of the Society , or the contiguous ante-room : but when Mr. DANIEL'S barometer was finished , at the end of the year 1822 , it was fixed up in the closet adjoining the library , on the floor which is immediately over the Council-room : the assumed difference in the elevation of the two floors ( namely , 19 feet ) having since been ascertained to be correct .
With respect to the new reference of altitude , namely , the fixed mark at Waterloo Bridge , much doubt has frequently been expressed about its existence , since no person had been able to discover it .
The fact is that there is no mark , in the common acceptance of the term ; but the intended reference is nevertheless more conspicuous , more durable , and more convenient than any mark that could have been inscribed by hands .
This standard mark , or level , was fixed on by Mr. BEVAN in the year 1827 , at the request of the Council of this Society : and the same gentleman also ascertained .
the difference of level between that mark and the floor of the council room .
As his Report on the occasion has never yet been made public , and will throw the best light on the subject , as well as be interesting to many persons , I shall here subjoin his letter to the Council , detailing the whole circumstances of the case .
" GENTLEMEN , -Pursuant to the order I had the honour to receive at the close of " C your last session , I have selected a permanent and definite point of reference , or bench"mark , for heights at Waterloo Bridge ; and have determined the difference of level " between this point and the floor of the Council room in the Apartments of the " Society at Somerset House .
" T ql he bench-mark , I have adopted , is the surface of the granite pedestal at the base of the columns , at the north abutment of the bridge , and on the eastern side ; " which is about five feet above the lowest platform , or landing , at the stairs .
" I have ascertained , by levelling from this spot , or bench-mark , to the floor of the " Council room , in which the barometer was kept in June 1826 , that the floor in the " centre of the doorway between the two rooms is 62,41 feet above the said bench"mark .
The mercury , in the basin of the barometer , I found above the floor 2-84 feet ; making the rise from the bench-mark to the mercury 65,25 feet .
" I am , Gentlemen , your obedient humble Servant , " B. BEVAN .
" Upon what authority it was presumed that the present position of the cistern of the barometer is ninety-five feet above the mean level of the sea , ( or , in other words , that the above-mentioned station at Waterloo Bridge is Il feet 92 inches above that level ) I have not been able to ascertain ; since Captain LLOYD'S levelling of the river Thames , from Sheerness upwards , as detailed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1831 , terminated at London Bridge .
Fle says , page 190 , " I concluded my levellings at a " standard mark sunk in the large plinth of the landing place ( near the wall ) of the " stairs on the north-east side of the New London Bridge .
This standard was 2,3967 [ feet ] below the north standard mark at Sheerness .
" Now , as the north standard mark at Sheerness was ascertained by Captain LLOYD to be 13.1511 feet above the mean level of the sea , we consequently have the surface of the above-mentioned plinth at London Bridge equal to 10-7544 ( or 104 ) feet above the mean level of the sea .
It therefore only remained to ascertain the difference of level between the surface of this plinth , and the surface of the plinth at Waterloo Bridge .
But a doubt for a long time remained as to the position of the mark at London Bridge , since ( as in the case of that at Waterloo Bridge ) it had escaped the search of all those who attempted to discover it .
It was at length found by Dr. FITTON , who in a note to his paper " On the Strata below the Chalk , " .
inserted in vol. iv .
( second series ) of the Transactions of the Geological Society , page 370 , gives the following accurate and circumstantial description of its position .
" ICThe mark here referred to is " a flat piece of brass , let into a cavity in one of the two large flags , or slabs of graCC nite , which form the landing place at the bottom of the second flight of steps , de " scending from the footway on the northeast side of the bridge .
The upper flight " consists of 29 steps ; the second ( at the foot of which is the mark ) of 26 .
The " lowest flight is more or less commonly covered by the water .
The cavity , in which " the mark is lodged , is about 3 inches square , with rounded angles ; and is two feet " from the eastern wall , or side of the bridge , and two feet eight inches from the " southern side of the stone .
The surface of the brass is about half an inch beneath " l that of the stone , which is itself a few inches below the level of the water at high " spring tides .
" The propriety of such a position for a standard mark may be much questioned , since we knlow , from what has recently taken place at Blackfriars Bridge , that the steps of a common landing place , abutting on the river , are liable to settle ; and in course of time to be altogether removed , for the purpose of repairs .
It therefore became desirable , on more accounts than one , to connect together the two marks at London and Waterloo Bridges by direct levelling .
This has recently been effected , at the request of the Council of this Society , by the direction and under the superintendence of Sir JOHN RENNIE , who readily undertook the determination of this point .
In his letter on this subject , dated October 18 , 1837 , he says , I"After repeated trials " ( the greatest variation of which did not exceed -lto of an inch ) I find that the difference is 3 feet 1,65 of an inch : that is , the mark on Waterloo Bridge is 3 feet 1165 of an " inch above that on the New London Bridge fixed by Captain LLOYD .
" The height of the cistern of the present barometer above the floor is 1 75 foot therefore adding all these several quantities together , namely , 19'000 62,410 10754 3,138 1750 97-052 we have , in round numbers , 97 feet for the height of the mercury in the cistern of this barometer above the mean level of the sea .
One word more before I close this paper , as to the propriety of the position of the several meteorological instruments of this Society ; on which , comments have occasionally been made .
With respect to the barometer , I am not aware that any objection can be offered ; and as to the hygrometer , the observations have been found , by recent trials , not to differ materially from some expressly made in another position , at King 's College , which was considered to be more favourable for such experiments .
It therefore only remains to speak of the external thermometer and of the rtan-gauge ; of which all that can be said on the subject would be merely a repetition of what was justly said sixty years ago by Mr. CAVENDISH on a similar occasion ( Philosophical Transactions , 1776 ) , namely , " ; that , on the whole , the situation is not altoCC gether such as could be wished , but is the best the house affords .
"

