76 Mr. A. B. Basset .
Reflection and Refraction [ Jan. 8 , January 8 , 1891 .
Lieut.-General STRACHEY , R.E. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; 1 .
" On the Minute Structure of the Muscle-columns or Sarco-styles which form the Wing Muscles of Insects .
Preliminary Note .
" By E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received December 15 , 1890 .
[ Publication deferred .
] II .
" On the Minute Structure of Striped Muscle , with Special Reference to a New Method of Investigation , by means of 'Impressions ' stamped in Collodion .
" By John Berry Haycra'ft , .
M.D. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S.E. Communicated by Dr. Klein , F.R.S. ( From the Physiological Laboratory , Univ. Edin .
) Received January 2 , 1891 .
[ Publication deferred .
] Reflection and Refraction of Light at the Surface of a Magnetised Medium .
" By A. B. Basset , M.A. , F.R.S. Received December 17 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the present paper is to endeavour to ascertain how far the electromagnetic theory of light , as at present developed , is capable of giving a theoretical explanation of Dr. Kerr 's experiments* on the effect of magnetism on light .
In first series of experiments , polarised light was reflected from the polished pole of an electromagnet , so that the lines of magnetic force were perpendicular to the reflecting surface ; and in the second * ' Phil. Mag./ May , 1877 , and March , 1878 .
1891 .
] of Light at the Surface of a Magnetised Medium .
series , the light was reflected from a polished plate of soft iron laid upon the poles of a horseshoe electromagnet , so that the lines of magnetic force were parallel to the reflecting surface .
In both series of experiments , it was found that , when the circuit was closed , so that the reflector became magnetised , the reflected light exhibited certain peculiarities , which disappeared when the current was off .
It was also found that the effects of magnetisation were , in most cases , reversed when the direction of the magnetising current was reversed ; that is to say , if the intensity of the reflected light was strengthened by a right-handed current , it was weakened by a left-handed one .
In these experiments , a metallic reflector was employed , and consequently the results were complicated by the influence of metallic reflection ; it therefore seems hopeless to attempt to give a complete theoretical explanation of these experiments until a satisfactory i electromagnetic theory of metallic reflection has been discovei'ed ; and this , I believe , has not yet been done .
There are , however , several non-metallic substances ( such as strong solutions of certain chemical compounds of iron ) , which are capable , when magnetised , of producing an effect upon light ; and the theoretical explanation of the magnetic action of such substances upon light is accordingly free from the difficulties surrounding metallic 1 reflection .
I have accordingly , in the present paper , attempted to 1 develop a theory which is applicable to such media .
The theory , which is due to Professor Rowland , is founded upon the * following considerations : \#151 ; It was proved by Hall* that , when a current passes through a conductor which is placed in a strong magnetic field , an electromotive force is produced , whose intensity is proportional to the product of the current and the magnetic force , and whose direction is at right angles to the plane containing the current and the magnetic force .
Professor Rowlandf has assumed that this result holds good in a dielectric which is under the action of a strong magnetic force ; accordingly the general equations of electromotive force become p = -f-c ... ... ... ... ... \#171 ; , where a , / 3 , \lt ; y are the components of the external magnetic force , and G is a constant which depends upon the physical constitution of the medium .
Writing px = C\#171 ; , Ac .
, it follows that , if the medium is isotropic , the equations of electric displacement are of the form # 'Phil .
Mag. , ' March , 1880 .
t Ibid , , A.pril , 1881 .
jg Mr. E. Matthey .
Further Contribution s \#163 ; Jan. 8 , ; ( 2 ) ' ' The boundary conditions are : continuity of magnetic induction and electric displacement perpendicular to the reflecting surface , the latter of which is equivalent to continuity of magnetic force perpendicular to the plane of incidence ; continuity of magnetic force along the line of intersection of the plane of incidence with the reflecting surface ; continuity of the rate at which energy flows across the reflecting surface .
Now the refracted light consists of two waves , circularly polarised in opposite directions , and the reflected light is elliptically polarised ; we have , therefore , four equations to determine the amplitudes of the two refracted waves , and the amplitudes of the two components of the reflected wave .
The results of the paper agree with Dr. Kerr 's experiments in the following particulars : \#151 ; ( i. ) The reflected light is elliptically polarised .
( ii .
) When the magnetisation is parallel to the reflecting surface , no effect is produced when the incidence is normal , or when the plane of incidence is perpendicular to the direction of magnetisation .
( iii .
) When the plane of incidence is parallel to the direction of magnetisation , and the light is polarised in the plane of incidence , the magnetic term increases from grazing incidence to a maximum value , and then decreases to normal incidence .
The principal point of disagreement is , that in all cases the intensity of the reflected light is unchanged when the direction of the magnetising current is reversed .
I do not think that the results of the theory can be considered altogether unsatisfactory , since they certainly explain some of Dr. Kerr 's experimental results ; and I am disposed to think that the disagreement is due to the disturbing influence of metallic reflection .
At the same time , the question is one which can only be decided by experiment , and it is therefore most desirable that experiments on magnetised solutions should be made .
IV .
" Further Contributions to the Metallurgy of Bismuth .
" By Edward Matthey , F.S.A. , F.C.S. , Assoc. Roy .
Sch .
Mines .
Communicated by Sir G. G. Stokes , Bart. , F.R.S. Received December 22 , 1890 .
In October , 1887 , I read a paper before the Royal Society* upon a new method which I incidentally discovered while working with a view to separate copper from bismuth , by fusion with bismuth sulphide .
* * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , p. 172 .

