480 possible , is to be laid on a plate of clean glass ; a silk thread is tied round the base of one of the tentacles of an Anthea , and the tentacle snipped off .
The mere tentacle separated from the animal to which it belonged is drawn gently across the nerve , or laid upon it , at the upper part : immediately muscular contractions follow in the leg .
These contractions cease at once if the portion of the nerve touched by the tentacle be cut off .
There can , it seems , no longer be any doubt that the muscular contractions are excited , not by electricity , but by irritant action of the urticating organs of the Anthea , which being more powerful in this respect than other Anemones , has been chosen for experiment , although other varieties give similar results .
I now see I was in error in supposing that the effect produced on the frog 's limb by the Actiniae could be transmitted along a wire .
I presume that in preparing the experiment alluded to , which I performed in the open air , at the sea-side , some of the irritant materials of the Anemones , which I had possibly handled , had been brought by my fingers in contact with the nerves , and I was thus deceived .
I am very happy , however , that I am myself the first to perceive and correct this error .
I remain , &amp;c. , ROBERT M'DONNELL .
W. Bowman , Esq. , F.R.S. , c. rec .
III .
" On the Digestive and Nervous Systems of Coccus hesperidum .
" By JOHN LUBBOCK , Esq. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , F.G.S. Received Oct. 4 , 1858 .
In the early part of last spring I began to investigate the anatomy of this interesting little insect , with the intention of studying only the organs connected with the development of the ova and pseudova .
It soon , however , became evident that the structure of the intestinal canal , on the one hand , had been entirely misunderstood by those who had previously examined it ; and on the other , that the nervous system , far from being similar in all specimens , varied in the most extraordinary manner .
It is therefore proposed in the present communication to give a very brief description of the digestive organs and of the nervous system .
481 Intestinal Canal .
( Magnified 30 diameters .
) FI Ramdohr and Leydig are the only two naturalists , so far as I know , who have published any original remarks on this subject .
Ramdohr says , " Die Speiserohre kurz und enge .
Der Magen vorn ein wenig erweitert , lang und vollig durchsichtig , so dass man die dunkeln Contenta darin sieht ... .
Der Dunndarm ist leer , etwas weiter als der Magen , durchsichtig , bisweilen faltig ... Die Gallgefasse fehlen , wenigstens konnte ich nicht die geringste Spur davon entdecken .
" This description , however , has reference to Chermes Alni .
According to Leydig ( Zeitschr .
f. Wiss .
Zool. V. TAB. I. fig. 1 ) , the canal in Coccus hesperidum consists of a short oesophagus , a large stomach , and a long intestine .
Into this intestine open four glands .
Rather behind the middle of it are situated the two large , yellow hepatic glands , and in front of these open , on one side , a free , slightly curved cmecum , and on the other , a shorter cmecum coiled up and enclosed in a pyriform sac , which is continued into a tube , whose end is attached to the skin .
This description is a singular mixture of truth and error , and Professor Leydig is so careful an observer that it 48g was long before I could convince myself that he had made such a series of mistakes .
His descriptions of the separate parts are indeed correct ( though in my specimens the hepatic glands ( G , G ) were proportionally larger than in his figure ) , but he has entirely misunderstood the relations of the different organs .
The true oesophagus ( fig. 1 A ) is rather long and extremely narrow .
It corresponds , I believe , to the tube f in Leydig 's figure , which he considers as an appendage to the intestine .
Following the oesophagus comes the pear-shaped bag ( fig. 1 F ) , with its remarkable cellular , contorted , internal gland .
Then there is a very short intestine ( D , ilium ) opening into the rectum ( C ) , which Leydig has described as the stomach .
The rectum is often found filled with fluid , as Leydig figures it , and varies in shape in different specimens ; it contracts at its posterior end into a narrow tube , B ( the oesophagus of Leydig ) , which opens into the vent on the upper side of the body .
At the anterior end of the pear-shaped crop or stomach are attached , besides the oesophagus , the two ends of the recurrent intestine ( H ) , and the cecum ( E ) , which is generally swollen at its base , and is perhaps the equivalent of the sucking stomach .
The recurrent intestine is considered by Burmeister and Lacordaire to be part of the ventriculus , but in all insects the Malpighian vessels open into the duodenum , or , when this is wanting , into the ilium , close behind the pylorus ; and as in the Homoptera they are attached to the recurrent intestine , it seems improper to consider this as part of the ventriculus .
If the recurrent intestine be cut , a number of large cells , some with daughter-cells , exude from it .
According to Burmeister , the Malpighian vessels are never less than four in number ; and according to Lacordaire , when there are only two , they are always attached by both ends ; but in C. hesperidurn there are but two , and they are attached only at one end .
It seems to me evident that M. Leydig must have detached the whole canal from the skin , and , in doing so , ruptured the recurrent intestine .
In this case it would be very natural for him to regard the free end of the longer part as the anus .
The large rectum he has evidently mistaken for the stomach , and the vent for the mouth .
There would then remain the oesophagus , which he has correctly described as going to the skin .
483 I have repeatedly dissected out the intestinal canal without rupturing the recurrent intestine ; and it may be observed that the structure of the whole digestive organs , as now described , is in accordance with that of the other Homoptera , which would not be the case if M. Leydig is correct .
M. Ramdohr examined C. Alni , but his description can hardly be correct , since it is scarcely possible that nearly allied species can differ so entirely in the arrangement of such important organs .
Unless Coccus Alni does differ very much from C. hesperidum , he has made the same mistakes as M. Leydig , with the addition of having misunderstood or overlooked the hepatic glands , which perhaps he may have mistaken for ovaries .
The intestinal canal of C. persicce is formed on the same type as that of C. hesperidum .
Nervous System .
I do not propose to give a detailed account of the nervous system , and only allude to it in order to mention the great variations observed in different specimens .
Figs. 2-9 represent different forms of the nervous system in C. hesperidum , and fig. 10 that of C. persicce : in all the objects are magnified 60 diameters .
Leydig rightly describes the suboesophageal portion of the ganglionic column as being reduced to a large mass ( fig. 2 , &amp; o. A ) , situated close behind the mouth .
This ganglion generally emits , besides the commissure , three large nerves on each side , and its hinder extremity is continued into a still larger nervous column ( C ) , which passes backward for rather more than '014 of an inch without throwing off any branches .
It then divides , and after a while each of the divisions again subdivides , so as to give off a rich plexus of nerves to the posterior part of the body .
The posterior pair of nerves ( fig. 2 , &amp;c. ) always throws off on its inner side , and not very far from its origin , a nerve ( F ) which I once traced and found to unite with one of the nerves derived from the main central chord .
This nerve ( F ) is always present , but the point at which it leaves the main nerve ( B ) is very variable , being sometimes as much as '014 of an inch from the suboesophageal ganglion , sometimes quite close to it .
Indeed , in more than one instance it arose from the ganglion itself , and not from the nerve B ( fig. 3 ) .
* -t 1 .
) r. .
&lt; ~~o U C. IL L~ Xi &lt; 1r ^x^ " *7 N U2Zl 6 &lt; Li.~~ rn7 ?
C~~_~~ mO e ; az 7IL 11 / a &gt; ~~ S2 I ~ , ~/ -L n~~~~~~--lL ri .
IL~ b ?
485 In the divisions also of the central stem there are very great variations , which it would be endless to describe in detail .
Perhaps the arrangement most generally met with , and that which I am inclined to regard as the type , on account of its presenting the nearest approach to symmetry , is that the main central chord separates , at about '014 from its origin , into two equal branches , and these again , after a course of about '01 , divide dichotomously ( fig. 2 ) .
In such a case the division of F from B generally takes place at a considerable distance from the ganglion .
I have , however , not met with many specimens presenting even this very limited amount of symmetry and regularity .
In fig. 4 we see the two divisions ( G , G ) of the central chord C divide almost immediately and yet not symmetrically .
In fig. 5 the chord C divides into two unequal divisions , the smaller of which passes along for more than '014 before it redivides , while the larger branch divides into three at a point only '006 from its origin .
In fig. 6 the central chord , just before its division into two branches , throws off on each side a small branchlet ; in fig. 7 this happens only on one side .
Finally , figs. 4 and 7 present us with some instances in which more than four branches are given off close to the first division of the great chord C. But even in the case which I have above described as most typical , the symmetry is not in fact so great as it would at first sight appear to be , because the nerves on the two sides are frequently not of the same size .
Thus , in fig. 2 each of the two branches of the main central stem divides , it is true , into two secondary branches , one of which is smaller than the other , but the two lesser branches are both upon the right side .
If then , as is probable , we are justified in concluding that in each animal the ultimate nervous fibrils are of somewhat equal size , that they compose the greater part of the nerve , and that the corresponding organs of the two sides of the body receive an equal amount of nerves , it is evident that some of the parts which on the left side are supplied by the large outer branch must on the right side be connected with the median branch .
We see , therefore , that not only is the branching of the nerves absolutely irregular , and that of the two sides entirely unsymmetrical , but even the number of main stems proceeding from the 486 ganglion is not always the same .
This result has surprised me very much , since if any organs might have been expected to be almost invariable , I should have thought it would have been the nervous system .
I believe that no parallel case has been described , nor do I even remember to have seen a description of any variation occurring in the larger nerves of any animal whatsoever .
Considering , however , how great are the variations which occur here in the same species , it is evident that differences in the distribution of the nerves in nearly allied forms are in themselves no proof that such species were separately created .
Around the ganglionic masses are several large spherical bodies .
These appear to be homologous with the " Zellenkorper , " described by Leuckart as surrounding the supraesophageal ganglion in the larva of Melophagus .
He considers them also as homologous with similar organs which have been observed in the embryos of other insects by Heroldt and Kolliker* .
Dujardin ( Ann. des Sci. Not .
1850 , 3rd ser. vol. xiv .
p. 202 ) describes the supracesophageal ganglion of the worker-ants as consisting of several isolated parts , and I was at first inclined to consider these spherical bodies as also merely isolated parts of the ganglionic mass , in favour of which view it may be urged that fewer nerves than usual appear to proceed from this mass .
The contents of the spherical bodies , however , under the influence of reagents , present an appearance different from that of the supracesophageal mass .
The suboesophageal ganglion is very richly supplied with tracheae , derived from two large stems which are attached to the front angles , and ramify from thence all over the mass .
The supraoesophageal ganglion is a triangular mass with its apex behind .
The two front corners terminate in large nerves .
The nervous system of C. persicce differs but little from that of C. hesperidum , and offers the same extraordinary amount of variation .
The two species , however , could be at once distinguished by the superior size of the subcesophageal ganglion in C. persicce , in which species also the last pair of nerves ( fig. 10 ) is given off more posteriorly , while both they and the central stem are considerably swollen at their origin , so as to give the hind margin of the ganglion a three-pronged outline .

