]\gt ; 1879 .
] Chloride of Silrer Battery .
PRESIDLNT in the Chair .
In pursuance of fhc Statutes , notice of the Neeting given from the Mr. George Mntthcy dmitted into the Socict Mr. Bramwell , .
Busk , Mr. De La Ruc , arch , and Mr. Perkin , nominated by the } , clccted by ballot Auditors of the 's Accounts on the of the Society .
The Presents ed laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers read : \mdash ; I. ' : Experimental on ctric 1 ) the of , By 1$UF M.A. .
D.C.L. , 1 , and , Ph.1 of In the first part of uthors d of experimctlts to Ilccessfry to ) ) tube , exhausted lnorc and number of cells in all the ) : of lifc of the battery so ) experiments -cre coltfi]cd to Sincc the completion , )\ldquo ; in the , the ve detcrmining the do injuriously ; theso are de tube , lb Gllployed was } inches ) between the ) battery consisted of 11 , cclIs .
was reduced to , afterwards continued ] it , fell ) ) In galvanometer was tl By VOL. XXIX .
Drs. De La Rue and H. W. lluller .
[ Nov. a table prcviously calculated , the value of the deflection in ohms of resistance .
cell could be read off ; this multiplied by 11,000 gave the total rebistnnce of the battcry ; the tube was then connected with the minals and the galvanometer again observed ; this gave a less deflection indicated a greater resistance , which , multiplied by 11,000 , the total resistance of the tube and battery : by subtrncting ] tance of the battcry the resistance of the tube was ascertained .
Cidling the tota ] resistance , the tube resistance , the tube-potentia ] .
The tube-potential requisite to produce a disch , with a pressure of 46 , 710 , was found to be 10 , this gradually fell until a pressure of 1,082 WflS r , the tube-potential then only 430 cells , after which it pidly rose and , at , it required a potential of to producc a ) .
From the experiments described in II ( p. 103 , foot notc ) , it was found that , in another tube , it reqnired the full potential of 11,000 cells to produce a af , and that , at , this potential was insufficient .
The obstruction to in was as great at , as at 28 , suvo , and required 8,950 cells in each case .
A few of the more remarkable of stratification in tube 162 are shown one of the hich illustrate the paper .
next pttrt the paper deals 1 ] ith the potelltial necessary to produce a ] betwcen dis ] inch in diameter , at a constant distance and various In the first illstance , an experiment was made in order to ascertain whether there either any condensation or dilatation of the in uity terminals before the actual passage of the dischargc .
fo do this an apparatus was constructed , as shown in fig. 1 .
It consiss( lass cylindcl .
, depth of which is accurately the samo in cvery , so as to ellsure the parallelism of two glass disks which close ib$ ends .
in with the ellds of the cylinder by meallS of -clamps of ) , and the apparatus is on a ipod is fastened to a square wooden foot .
the top and bottom disks , by means of flanged-scr brass disks with rounded inches in maintained at a distallcc of inch , m.nl .
, at ch .
of 11,000 cells vould only jnst place .
The ojcct t the disks ) ished binding-scrcwb ttachino w. from battery .
On sidc of tbc cylinder a tubulure in which is fitted a gauge strong acid , so as to dry ) inside of the apparatus , alltl to indicntc whether any condensation or dilatation of the 1879 .
] gas contained cylinder occurs colulecting the metallic with ttery by of the .
The edges of verc bbed with akoll to prove the , by in the limb of to stand some timo ] in the bulb .
Whcn colltact was a of ) cclls , was llotho of so ncithcr ) vould catlsed raction , } ) ulsiollfl .
) disks } old caused all ) of fInid i11thc stcm rved , but not } of it took place .
The csult VflS lloticed t for acid .
far , ] ) it , the sult is ave .
to a ce ll:ldc .
tl , fig. 1 , I stance the Drs. De La H. Miiller .
[ Nov. disks to the striking distance tmospheric pressure for the battery of 11,000 cells .
Afterwards a less nunlbcr of cells was connected with the disks and the bell-jar gradually austed until the discharge occurred ; .
height of the gauge was then read off .
Then a less and lesa lber of cells was connected disks and the operation was eated .
There was a gauge about 36 inches long attached to the -plate in order to indicate the prcssure beyond the of the auges attached to the pumps .
In air the discharge took placc at ordinary atmospheric 11,000 cells when the disks inch , .
distant ; and cells at an average prcssurc of 10 hydrogen it took place at cric pressure with 11,000 cells disks were inch , ) .
distant ; and with 600 cells of 14 .
pressure .
In carbonic acid , at atmospheric pressurc with 11,000 ceIIs , when the disks were inch , .
distant ; and with 600 cells at pressure of numbers obtained for air , , and respecvere plotted down on ] limetrc scalo paper , the abscissae being 1 , the ordinates 1 cells , and curves drawn to a mean of the several obscrvations .
These appeared to resemble hyperLolic curves so closely that true hyperbolic curves were found partly by a geometric uction , partly by computation , hich would intersect the meall expcrimental curves in two points .
results of exporiment were again laid down on these new curves , it was found that they did not differ more them than they did from each other .
The ratio of the nsvcrse a ( pressure ) to the conjugate axis of the hyperbolas set out on above-mentioned air . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
carbonic acid . . . . . . . .
triking distances at atmospheric for surfaoes ches radius and inch diameter , with rious potentials , as in Part I , , curve VIH , at , also those for flat surfaccs in ) and C4 , reduced to millimctres and plotted in the same , but not on precisely the the ding cves constnnt di tance and valious .
Hjpcrbolic were fonnd rsccted the cves in points .
It sccn case of erical surfaces , the result 1aving the of a great number of experiment that t coincided closely the ations , while for 1879 .
] of SilcelBatterlf .
281 ) sul.faces , which only a few expcriments were made , the coincidcncc not quite so perfect .
, it would appear that of the hyperbola holds cqually wcll for a constant and distance as it does a constaut distance and valying GSSU1C ; the in the way of up to a certain as the number of molecules )vccn the In the two cases of sphelic{l and planc ratio VOOIl the nsverse ( distance ) ate potentia ) ) axes of the respective hyperbolas was\mdash ; For sphericad . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
the data alrcady Part I , the a cve the vecn flat disks on a of 10 cclltinls .
for a millimetre utims .
to 1,000 cells .
the laid ( owll the llumbers deduced : \mdash ; The remainder of the paper is ccupied with the study the phcnomena of the ious c of pressure , and potential ; the resuIts ined s that the and the stratified mercly modifications of the same phenomenolL has ) ( Trtlllsactions of the ) of \ldquo ; , vol. xxvii , of rupve Dargo ooctricity \ldquo ; , and of ious forms .
) of ) bc iu \ldquo ; , 18 used a Holtz cd the for the two i11 tances n ] llndith ) the hypc ) ' .
W. Miiller .
The experiments were made a bell-jar , containing the terminals , which could bo gradually exhausted after having been filled with air or other gas .
One of the .
was fixed to the bottom plate , theother could adjusted to distance from it by a sliding rough a stuffing-box the cover .
The foot of the staud was insulated by a disk of , on which it stands .
One such bell-jar is inches ( centims. ) bigh and 5 inches ( centims. ) in diameter ; its cubical conent , obtained by covering the open ends with plates and filling with water from a graduated measure , to be .
ccntims .
A kable phenomenou was observed on .
connexion between the terminals and the battery by means of the k-ey already described Part , namely , that within certain limits of pressurc in the bell-jar a sudden expaltsion of the gas took lace , and tlJat as soon as the conncxion was broken the gas then ab suddenly returned nearly , but not quitc , to its original volume in consequence of a ] incrcasc of turo .
The eifect exactly like that would becll produced if an empty bladder had been suspended the , and suddenly inflated and suddenly emptied .
The followed experiment in rarefied air , at a pressure of 56 at a temperature of C. , will give an idea of the amount of instantaneous expansion which occurb when the erminals are connected -ith the poles of the battery of 11,000 cells , current ; resistance of the bell-jar was reproduced by substituting 600,000 ohms wire resistance .
Distance of erminals\mdash ; the top one a ) point , th ower a disk\mdash ; 6 inches ; 56 On making contact the arc passed and the column of mercury was depressed . . . . . .
20 , Pressure on connexion . . . . . . . .
The increased was to the normal in the ratio of to 1 ; its the gas was kept at a constttnt volume , and .
the expallsion to bc due to an increase of pressure would ab the absolute temperature , * thercforc , whencc C. ; C. , the ture of the bell-jar , and , the rise of ture while the was taking place .
But the temperature of the bell-jar as detcrmined by a thermometer enclosed in it with its bulb llppermost only C. per second , king into account the * AbsoluI zero O. , ) 1879 .
] The Chloride of of .
It is evident , thercforo , that ) ) cannot be ascribed to the eous 1enting of C. the dinlcnsions of tho a , it that it must mous t C. , if the increasc of ) ressuro was ally due to hcat .
] { ) th tinnm vircs supl ) orted i ) arts of the arc were fused ; the tcml ) aturo o ns ns tho fnsion-point of ) , and ] I [ ' .
of evolved ) of ) ) a taucc of itir the jar , .
it Otlld 1 it C. It is from direct experiment } -olntion of heat not to to the ) its ture only bout ( .
] ) ) ; mllst ) ahuost by radinti011 .
It is difficult consequontly to th .
enormous tation which occurred onld 1 caused by ease of tempcratnre .
And it to ( by a of the molecules b ) :tion to walls of the eino d from the lllotiolt used by to of of rious forms wirl , ionb P .
It ound t the by not of the snmc the to np A : 1/ Drs. De La Rue and H. W. Muller .
[ Nov. 20 , .
fig. 2 , which only indicatos the central bright portion of the arc , this never quite reacbed the negative terminal , neal which there was always the well-known dark As the pressure was diminished the arc out until at last the emtire surface of the ative disk was covered wibh a luminous halo , the discharge took up a stratified appearance .
The appearances presented by the arc in air , hydrogen , and carbonic copiously illustrated by copies , in mezzotint , of photographs wings as in Part II in the case of stratified discharges tubes .
During the course of these observations the increased pressure caused by the current was recorded , and an was made to ascertain whether the increase of pressure was greater near one or the terminal .
For this purpose a divided bell-jar was constructed , both ends of the two halves being accurately ground , and a glass disk divided the chamber into two parts ; this tlJere is a hole half an inch in diameter made with a raised rim , in order that plates of mica with holes of different diameters might be cemented with Canada balsam centrally to the diaphragm .
The capacity of the upper half was found to be 1,530 .
centims. , that of the lower half 1 , 755 , total That portion of the chamber which was in communication with the gauge was connected alternately with the positive or negative terminal of the battery , and the depression noted .
When this chamber was eithcr \mdash ; or ratio of increase normal pressule was\mdash ; 1.39 It would appear therefore that the dilntation of the gas is the same both in the positivo and negative chambers .
In order to prosecute their experiments in a vessel of ] grcater capacity , the authors had constructed a jar with a neck at each end , or ulore b , a tube supported horizontally on ebonitc crut .
It is 37 inches long and inches in diameter , its cubical content was found to be .
centims. , or times that of the bell-jar employed in the experiments on the electric arc .
The eriments with this tube will necessarily occupy a con- sidcrable pcl.iod , partly on ftCCOUllt of the time it takes to he Chloride of Silver Battery .
it after set , partly on account of the variety of experimcllts it intcnded to make with it ; consequently they describe a first CSlllts hitherto obtained .
For Air .
Pressul .
C : ; , 3 , , 6,300 cells .
Two luminosities } formed , the negative .
surrounded with a )ulosity complctely filled the end of tube .
The tube ) ] ] ntly with a bluc cscent light , which to ve power .
A otograp obtained in 5 seconds recol ) c.ul.ious phenonlenon , namely , that the outer : minosity appears than the tube .
It is to be while the discbarge was reddish ogen ) , the fluoresccncc tube was blue ; the effect appears to be due to the tion of :/ ortion of the fluorescent emanating from the back of the in } ) assing through the red luminosity .
The effect quite nnexpected , and it was thought at first that it might have al.iscn peculial'ity in the development of the dry ; it therefore until the result had been confirmed by other hey ventured on he anation above givell .
The paper closes with the conclusions:\mdash ; 1 .
all / ' there is { to of an electric discharge .
Afte } .
the } reached , the to a creascs ( ( th dcc the ; at m.m. , , it is as as at beithcr ( sation / of a , uity ? .
Whcn there is a the a to that he ' the ceases .
4 .
to p at a ious distances , ?
nay ) ) ) istance of the scharye bpa ' allel fl ]tl ' This not hold howil the to 1 ) ' ' various is as the narc ( const a to thnf ] .
to placc , 6 .
the ' Prof. .
N. Hartloy .
Hlllltingto]l .
Lastly , the authors say:\mdash ; We have ploasure in thanking Professor Stokes for his dvice during the of our investigations .
To our abhistant , Mr. Fram , we are indebted ' his able -operation , and have to Mr. H. olds his aid and skill in taking \ldquo ; I I. ' on thu Action of nicll Substances on the Rays of the Spcctrunl .
Part III .
On Examiof Oils RTLEY , F.R.S.E. , .
of Chemistry College of Science for .
Dublin , A. 1 .I.C .
, F.C.S. , ciate of the Royal School of } incs .
Received July 22 , chemical and physical esearch by arious investigators has bc devoted to of ) odies known as Essential Oils , as , for instanc work of .
J. H. GladstoIlG ( ' ' Journal of the Chemical ocicty , \ldquo ; vol. xviii , p. 1 ; vol. xxiii , p. ; vol. , p. 1 ) ; of Dr. C. R. A. } ( ' ' Journal of the ociety , \ldquo ; vol. xxvi , pp. 549 and CS ; vol. xxvii , pp. 1 , 317 , and , Isomeric terpenes and their ves ) ; of Dr. W. A. Tilden xxviii , and , as as of The new method of employed by us and ibed in a .
about to be published in the " " Transactions , ' ' has been :lied to the examination of these substances .
We have to the kindness with which entlemen have supplied us samples of essential oils , namsly , Dr. Gladstone , Mr. arries , of the of , and rries , Dr. Sepicsse , and ) .
W. A. Tildell .
previous experiments acts of Parts I and II , ' ' Ro Soc No. 192 , 1879 ) , ) were taken of the transmitted by the undiluted then of that transthe liquid in various of dilutiou , the dilutions rauglng sonlc from 1 in 50 to 1 in ) olumes o alcohol .
is a list of substnnces , classified according to the ) roperties they were to posscst .
' nons ) oil of time . .
Citron .
clrate .
Citrol ) tbon ( No. 2 ) .
Cedar

