Observations on the Dip and Variation of the Magnetic Needle , and on the Intensity of the Magnetic Force ; made during the late Voyage in search of a North-woest Passage .
By Captain Edward Sabine , of the Royal Regiment of Artillery , F.R.S. and F.L.S. Read February 25 , 1819 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1819 , p. 132 .
] The dipping-needle used in these observations was similar to that described by Mr. Cavendish in the 66th volume of the Philosophical 'I'ransactions , and was made by the same artist .
It was so adjusted that no alteration took place in the indication of the dip on reversing the poles , and was placed in the direction of the magnetic meridian by a compass stationed at a sufficient distance , and suffered to remain during the observations , for the purpose of occasional verification .
In determining the intensity of the magnetic force , the needle was drawn to a horizontal position by a magnet , and , being released at an observed moment of time , was suffered to oscillate until the arcs became too small to be readily distinguished : the first arc was thus equal to the dip , and at every tenth vibration both the arc and time were noted .
The results of these observations are given in a series of tables .
The azimuth compasses used in the observations to determine the variation of the needle in Davis 's Strait and Baffin 's Bay , and the results of which are detailed in tables annexed to this paper , were constructed upon Captain Kater 's improved plan .
They were generally employed on the ice ; for as the influence of the ship 's iron increased upon their compasses as the directive power of magnetism diminished , the observations made on board became of little or no value towards a knowledge of the true variation .
This remark Captaiin Sabine illustrates by the insertion in his tables of a few azimuths taken in the Isabella .
They also show how essential it is to navigation , in high latitudes , that the nature of the errors which the ship 's attraction produces on her compasses should be understood .

