270 Brevity , Frequency of Rhythm , and Amount of Reflex Nervous Discharge , as indicated by Reflex Contraction .
By N. B. Dreyer and C. S. Sherrington , F.RS .
( Received May 31 , 1918 .
) During an enquiry , for Surgeon-General Sir David Bruce 's Committee on Tetanus , into the neuro-muscular changes produced by tetanus-toxin , it became desirable to re-examine certain commonly accepted data regarding the reactions of normal reflex-centres .
I. The first of these that engaged us regarded the reaction of a spinal reflex-centre to a single momentary stimulus applied to a main afferent nerve playing on the centre .
Evidence was desired as to whether the reflex nervous discharge in response to the single volley of simultaneous centripetal impulses thus thrown into it consists similarly of a single volley of emitted impulses , or whether it consists of a volley-series , brief but yet repetitive , a series of volleys .
The form of the reflex contraction should throw light on this , when compared as to its space and time relations with that of the simple muscle-twitch evoked by a like stimulus applied to the motor nerve of the same muscle as that observed for the reflex .
That in certain cases the reflex response is a single-volley discharge is extremely probable .
The proprioceptive reflex of vastocrureus ( " knee-jerk")* and of tibialis anticusf appears to be simple twitches commonly though not always .
Using the same reflex as we ourselves turned to , Forbes and Gregg* find that as evoked by a single break-shock the reflex nervous response , as judged by its electrical effect , is often a single-volley discharge ; they point out that dicrotism of the response need not mean that any neurone discharges twice .
On the other hand , the fact that , S when the single break-shock is strong , the reflex contraction may exceed in height the maximal twitch obtainable direct through motor nerve suggests that the reflex discharge is then , although brief , a repetitive volley-series .
Beritoff|| notes that in reflex tetani produced in the winter frog by strong faradisation at rates below 40 per second , some of the component shocks used as * Cf .
W. A. Jolly , 'Quart .
Journ. Exp. Physiol. , ' vol. 4 , p. 66 ( 1911 ) .
t C. Asayama , 'Quart .
Journ. Exp. Physiol. , ' vol. 9 , p. 265 ( 1915 ) .
J A. Forbes and A. Gregg , ' Amer .
Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 37 , p. 175 ( 1915 ) .
S Sherrington and Sowton , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 49 , p. 331 ( 1915 ) .
|| J. S. Beritoff , ' Zeitschr .
f. Biol. , ' vol. 62 , p. 125 ( 1913 ) .
Reflex Nervous Discharge , 2 71 stimuli*may be followed by as many as 3-5 muscular action-current waves .
The well-known slow subsidence of contraction frequently met as the after effect ( T. Graham-Brown's* terminal phenomenon ) seems an instance of the same kind , though more pronounced .
For our observations the muscle used was tibialis anticus , the preparation a spinal cat previously decerebrated under chloroform , the afferent nerve the popliteal , and the stimulus a .single break-shock obtained by opening the primary circuit by a pendulum key set similarly throughout the whole series of experiments .
The muscular contraction was recorded by an isometric myograph whose own vibration period was much shorter than that of the simple muscular twitch and damped to give it some " dead-beat " character .
After the samples of reflex contraction had been obtained by stimulation of the popliteal nerve , the peroneal nerve , innervating tibialis anticus , was severed and the stimulus , arranged to be maximal , was applied to the distal stump of this motor nerve itself .
The break-shock cathode was placed proximal on the afferent nerve for the reflex , distal on the motor nerve for the " direct " twitch .
The preparation and its attachment to the myograph remained unaltered .
The interval between the two observations was sometimes only four minutes , the electrodes and interelectrodal distance remained the same for both .
Contraction curves showing duration and tension-height concurrently were thus obtained for the same muscle both in its reflex and direct response in the same individual preparation using a single break-shock stimulus delivered by the same key .
The condition of the preparations was usually very good , judging from the lowness of the threshold stimulus , both reflex and peripheral .
It is to be regretted that the stimulus value was not obtained by the Martinf method , but the apparatus for that has not been at hand for us .
The values taken were readings of the Berne inductorium scale , the primary fed by a 2-volt cell .
The threshold readings were often very low indeed , far below 30 Berne units ( =27 cm .
on the ordinary scale ) , e.g. } 30 units\#151 ; 70 ' angular turn of the secondary spiral , sometimes 30'-80 ' .
Often the difference between the threshold for the reflex and for the motor-nerve observation was only a few degrees of the angular scale .
Results.\#151 ; Our graphic records of the reflex contraction to the single break-shock have not rarely been very similar to those of the twitch-contraction to the shock applied to motor nerve itself .
This has been so most frequently when the break-shock stimulus for the reflex is near threshold value ; it is the case also sometimes when the break-shock * T. Graham-Brown , 'Quart .
Journ. Exp. Physiol. , ' vol. 7 , p. 199 ( 1914 ) .
t E. G. Martin , ' Measurement of Induction Shocks , ' New York , 1912 .
Z 2 272 Messrs. N. B. Dreyer and C. S. Sherrington .
stimulus is much above threshold .
More usually , however , the reflex contraction is more prolonged , and commonly also of greater height , which with the isometric torsion myograph means of greater power , than is the maximal twitch evoked by a single break-shock applied to motor nerve .
This is sometimes so when the break-shock stimulus used is not far above threshold value ; it is almost always so , in our experience , when the stimulus , though still of moderate intensity , is yet considerably above threshold value .
The same stimulus , as judged by position of the secondary coil on the induetory Fig. 1.\#151 ; Contractions of tibialis anticus ( spinal cat ) in response to a single break-shock stimulus , in B , C , E , F , applied to afferent nerve ( popliteal ) , in A and D applied to motor nerve ( peroneal ) direct .
A , B , C , from one preparation ; D , E , F , from another preparation .
A and C , break-shock = 1000 , units of Berne coil = 14 cm .
distance on scale ; B , at 500 units = 15*8 cm .
on scale ; D and F , at 15 cm .
on scale = 750 units ; E , at 18 cm .
on scale = 200 units .
Top line , tuning-fork marking 001 sec. , scale , gives reflexly a contraction more powerful and more prolonged than it gives when applied to the motor nerve itself .
At greater strengths still the single-induction shock produces reflexly a contraction which may have a height thrice as great and a duration seven or eight times as long as the maximal contraction which it produced when applied directly to the motor nerve itself .
There can thus be no doubt but that a single momentary stimulus applied to an afferent nerve often evokes a repetitive discharge of impulses from the reflex centre to which that afferent nerve conducts .
The Rejlex Nervous Discharge .
repetitive discharge occurs not unfrequently when the stimulus is not stroug .
Condition of the reflex centre rather than intensity of stimulus is the decisive factor .
II A second point engaging us concerned the frequency of the rate of the impulse-volleys of the reflex discharge in response to rhythmic stimulation of the afferent nerve at various rates of frequency .
A conclusion drawn by previous observers* has been that , when the spinal centre receives successive stimuli at rates of frequency greater than 10 a second , the motor centre ceases to follow the rhythm of the stimulation .
Its response is said to be then of an independent rhythm rate , a , rhythm proper to itself and exhibiting a frequency of about 10 a second .
The basis of this conclusion was the observation that , below rates of stimulation of 10 a second , the muscular contraction showed waves synchronous with the rhythm of stimulation of the reflex channel , and that , with stimulations more frequent than 10 a second , the muscular contraction exhibited , instead of undulations synchronous with the stimulus rhythm , undulations , slight and somewhat irregular , recurring at the rate approximately of 10 a second .
This observation and conclusion were at variance with some earlier results by Francois Frank and Pitresf ; they were difficult to harmonise with certain experience of our own in nerve-centres poisoned with tetanus-toxin .
Hence the necessity for re-examining the point in normal reflexes in order to confirm or not its normal occurrence .
For this our experiments have been with the flexion-reflex of the hind-limb ( cat ) , the preparation being spinal , the popliteal trunk the afferent nerve , and the muscle tibialis anticus , the main flexor of ankle .
( 1 ) The contraction was recorded isometrieally , the myograph recorder having a vibration period of about ( VO 11 second .
In the primary circuit of the inductorium Was a flat spring , whose vibration frequency , by alteration of the length of the spring , could be varied readily between 10 and 60 a second .
The spring was armed with a fine style set close above a mercury pool .
We find the myograph of the reflex contraction exhibits clear mechanical rhythm synchronous with the stimulation at rates up to 55 a second , and sometimes beyond that .
With rates up to 30 a second the synchronous tremor is so coarse as to be obvious to the unaided eye .
This method of synchronous rhythm showed , therefore , in its graphic application , that at frequency-rates up to somewhat above 55 per second , the rhythmic * V. Horsley and E. A. Schafer , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' Vol. 7 , p. Ill ( 1886 ) .
+ F. Frank and A. Pitres , ' Archives de Physiol./ Sfer .
3 , vol. 5 , p. 18 ( 1885 ) .
Messrs. N. B. Dreyer and C. S. Sherrington .
discharge of the reflex centre follows the full frequence-rate of the afferent nerve stimulation , the centre emitting successive volleys of centrifugal impulses at the same rate as those evoked in and transmitted to it by the afferent nerve .
( 2 ) The finger , on touching the muscle-tendon , detects a slight thrill , at rates of stimulation of the afferent nerve even above 55 per second .
- To test whether this thrill has the same frequency as ?
the stimulation rate , a Fig. 2.\#151 ; A , reflex contraction of tibialis anticus ( spinal cat ) to faradisation of afferent nerve ( popliteal ) , at 15 per sec. , as signalled below .
The period of unshortcircuiting the second circuit is not shown , but the interrupter in primary circuit lapsed during the time of unshortcircuiting , and just prior to that one of the interruptions missed , and this irregularity the reflex tetanus has followed perfectly .
B and C , similar preparation from another experiment ; faradisation at 23 per sec. ; B , the reflex response ; C , response to stimulation of motor nerve ; second coil at 18 cm .
= 250 Berne units , for both .
myograph recorder was prepared , whose vibration period was 65 per second when attached to the contracted muscle , as tested by suddenly jerking and releasing it .
The afferent nerve was then stimulated with a break-shock series pf 65 per second .
The recording myograph was thus used as a resonator for that pitch of vibration which should obtain in the muscle under the stimulation used if the reflex harmonised with the afferent nerve 's stimulation .
The result was that the myograph record then exhibited a vibration of 65 per second throughout the duration of each reflex tetanus .
Reflex Nervous Discharge .
275 Various strengths of stimulus were used , and various heights of tetanic contraction resulted , and all showed fine tremor of 65-per-second frequency .
The same " resonance " method , when applied to tetani similarly provoked , but through the motor nerve direct , instead of through the afferent nerve and reflex centre , similarly gave tremor of 65-per-second rate , somewhat more marked in degree than with the reflex tetani .
A resonance method is obviously open to some fallacies .
Any movement of the recorder is liable to be accompanied by undulations of the periodicity^ proper to the recorder .
But the continuance of the vibration throughout the long flat top of each tetanus record argues that underlying that there was\gt ; a muscle vibration with which the lever 's own period truly synchronised .
( 3 ) The applicability both of the first mentioned " synchronous rhythm " Fig. 3.\#151 ; Reflex response of tibialis anticus ( spinal cat ) to faradisation of afferent nerve ( popliteal ) at 60 per sec. method and the " resonance " method , for the purpose in view , depends obviously on two conditions .
The individual centrifugal impulses composing each volley must be very approximately simultaneous ; if they are not so , the end of one volley will commingle with the beginning of the next , and , the muscle contraction examined being that of its fibre-complex as a whole , the contraction waves will merge and may become inseparable in the record .
Also , even though the successive centrifugal impulse-volleys remain discrete , the sluggishness of the contraction wave itself sets a limit to the separateness of successive waves when they follow at rates higher than a certain number per second , which number may conceivably be much lower than that at which the reflex centre can still discharge discrete impulse volleys .
This limitation , due to the relatively prolonged apex-maximum of each contraction wave , can be determined by recording the tetanic contraction of the muscle 276 Messrs. N. B. Dreyer and C. S. Sherrington .
in response to repetitive stimulation of the motor nerve at various rates .
We have controlled this in the muscle we used for the reflex , tibialis anticus , and in the gastrocnemius ( without soleus ) , and find the limit with our myograph at close to 65 per second .
Above that frequency , and sometimes a little below it , the tetanic contraction in response to motor-nerve stimulation exhibits practically no visible undulation .
It was noted , however , by Marey , * a number of years ago ( 1867 ) , that when the motor nerve is stimulated by rhythmic stimuli of progressively quicker and quicker rate there is , after a frequency has been reached at which the tetanic contraction becomes a smooth non-vibratory line , a still further increase in the contraction height and tension on further increasing the frequency of the rhythmic stimuli .
" Apr\amp ; s que tout vibration a disparu dans le graphique , on voit la ligne trac4e s'^lever de plus en plus sous l'influence d'excitations de plus en plus rapproch4es."f This further increment of contraction , due to increment in number of nerve-impulses per second in the motor nerve , offered a means of testing whether the reflex centre can respond with increased frequency-rate of discharge even after its afferent nerve 's stimulation-rate has reached and passed beyond that pitch at which in the muscle individual contraction waves cease to be visibly distinguishable by the myogram .
Marey 's observations , in the description extant of them , may not have been entirely free from objection ; using a rotating interrupter , as he did , the individual breaks are more sudden under the quicker rotation , and the individual break-shocks therefore become more powerful as individual stimuli .
He was , however , presumably using maximal stimuli throughout , and in that case further increase in their stimulation potency would not account for the increase of contraction observed .
In applying the experiment to reflex contraction , where it is less easy to be sure that the individual stimuli are maximal , it would be preferable , when increasing their serial frequence , not to change the speed of the individual acts of breaking of the primary circuit .
To attain this , the following plan was devised ( C. S. S. ) .
The current path of the primary circuit was bifurcated for a short distance into two equal branches , each including a Hg pool , the twin pools lying under the ends of a horizontal spar , which was fixed transversely at its middle to a horizontal steel wire stretched between rigid uprights .
The wire carried a horizontal armature* which could be acted on by the poles of a small electromagnet , and from one end of the armature a vertical needle on slightly torsing the * E. J. Matey , * Du Mouveitient dans les Eonctions de la Vie , ' p. 376 .
Paris , 1868 .
t Loc .
cit.t p. 376 .
Rejlex Nervous Discharge , stretched wire dipped into a Hg pool beneath it .
An electric circuit , independent of the stimulating circuit , was arranged so that its current passed through the electromagnet when the armature needle entered the Hg pool beneath .
The wire therefore continued to vibrate at its own torsional frequency , the rate depending on its length and diameter and on the weight and moment of the armature and cross-spar with which it was loaded .
The cross-spar carried , insulated from the torsion-vibrator 's circuit , two fine wires re-uniting the short twin paths of the primary circuit of the stimulating inductorium .
Each of these wires joined at its one end a fine gilt needle fixed vertically at end of the horizontal spar , the needle point lying close above the corresponding Hg pool .
When the steel wire was torsed , one of the twin branches of the primary circuit was made and the other broken , and vice versA in its elastic recoil in the opposite direction .
With both of the twin branches of the circuit in use , the current passed therefore alternately by one and the other , the speed of break ( and make ) being identical in the two .
With both of the twin branches in use , the frequency of breaking ( and making ) of the primary circuit was , of course , the double of the frequency when only one of them was in use .
The frequency of the torsion vibration could be readily altered within wide limits by altering the length of the steel wire or by adjusting a screw-weight attached to the armature carried by the wire .
With this interrupter the frequency of the break-shocks applied to the nerve could , by closing a key , be doubled and , by opening it , halved without other change in the stimulation as it progressed ; we sought for the degree of frequency beyond which further increase of frequency , doubling , caused no further appreciable increase in the tetanic contraction .
Using it on the motor-nerve direct we confirmed Marey 's observation that further increase of stimulus frequency beyond that at which the myograph record becomes steady and non-vibratory does produce increase in height and tension of contraction up to a certain point .
Turning then to the reflex preparation , and using similar reflex and similar isometric records to those already mentioned our results have been as follows .
When the reflex contraction was in progress under a stimulation of the afferent nerve at 50 per second , increase , namely doubling , the frequency caused immediate marked increase in the height ( tension ) of the contraction , which fell back to the previous height again at once on returning to the previous slower rate .
There was no reason to suspect any difference between the making and breaking of the primary circuit as carried out by the torsional interrupter in the two twin branches respectively .
But to control this as a possibility the observations were repeated with alternate priority of one or Messrs. N. B. Dreyer and C. S. Sherrington .
other of the interrupted branches .
It made no difference to the- result which one of the two branches of the circuit preceded in the sequence .
A control of this point lay also in measurement of the threshold stimulus for contraction as evoked by the circuit through each of its twin paths respectively ; the threshold was found to be the same for both .
A further control was obtained by comparing the height of the reflex tetanus produced ( \#171 ; ) by use of both paths , in the way above described , with the tetanus height produced ( \#163 ; ) by use of either of the paths alone , i.e. , half the frequency rate of \#171 ; , the secondary coil being set further from the primary coil for obs .
a than for obs .
/ 3 , so that the strength of the individual shocks was less for the doubled frequency-rate than for .
the single-path frequency-rate .
It was found that the strength of the individual shock might be considerably less W\A/ V\AA/ W\/ W\AA/ WW\AA/ W\AAAAA/ V\/ WW'MAa ; Fig. 4 .
Two reflex responses of tibialis anticus ( spinal cat ) obtained in immediate succession , the lower to faradisation ( of afferent nerve , popliteal ) at 54 per sec. , the higher by doubling the frequency ( see text ) ; the higher with the coil at 15 cm .
= 750 Berne units , the lower with coil at 14*5 cm .
= about 850 Berne units .
Top line , 100 per sec. fork ; second line , signal for 55 per sec. interrupter .
Inset : the record of the vibration proper to the recording spring , lever , and attached tendon .
during the doubled-frequency rate than during the undoubled , and the resulting tetanus height yet be greater for the doubled than for the undoubled , although the frequency-rate of the latter was 50 per second or over .
Thus , in instance , a shock-series at 110 per second , the secondary coil being at 100 units on the Berne scale ( secondary coil 20*3 cm .
from primary ) , gave a tetanus record of 14 mm. height ; while in the same preparation the two immediately preceding observations with either of the twin paths singly gave a tetanus of 12 mm. height only , although for them the secondary stood at 150 units on the Berne scale ( secondary coil 19*4 cm .
from primary ) , the frequency-rate of each of the twin paths being , of course , 55 per second .
The individual break-shock stimuli being similar throughout and delivered throughout by the same unmoved electrode ( cathode for break-shock Reflex Nervous Discharge .
proximal to anode on , the afferent nerve ) , the sole stimulation-change accompanying the contraction-increment is the increased number of stimuli per second .
This increase of contraction-height on increasing ( doubling ) the Fig. 5.\#151 ; Reflex contractions of tibialis anticus ( spinal cat ) , showing effect of intercurrent doubling of frequency rate of interrupter in primary .
A and B , initial ( and terminal ) rate of stimulation , 65 per sec. ; intermediate period , shown by higher plateau of contraction , at 130 per sec. In B the order of succession of the twin branches of the circuit is reverse of that in A. G and D similar , but with rate of 75 per sec. ( doubling to 150 per see .
) ; the increase of height of the plateau obtained by doubling is still obvious , though less than in A and B. The signal , as set for the slower rate of interruption , has failed to pick up the quicker rate .
stimulation frequence was observed in experiments carrying the initial , i.e. , undoubled , frequence of stimulation up to 75 per second .
When that rate was reached the increment of contraction-height obtained by further increase ( doubling ) became quite small , though still quite indubitable .
The rate of 280 Messrs. N , B , Dreyer and C. S. Sherrington .
reflex discharge must , therefore , with increase of the rate Of stimulation of the afferent nerve to beyond 75 per second increase to beyond 75 per second .
Whether that rate approaches actually near to the limit of the rate of frequency which the reflex centre 's discharge can follow cannot , of course , be answered by this method .
There is nothing to show that when in the experiment the stimulation-frequency is changed from 75 per second to 150 pel1 second , the reflex discharge does not , in fact , follow the latter figure , as we may suppose the motor nerve to do in the case of its direct stimulation .
The results by mechanical methods stand therefore no longer in contradic-with those obtained by the galvanometer using oscillations traceable to muscular action currents .
C. Foa* followed in the chloralised dog action currents of the contracting femoral quadriceps synchronous with the electrical stimuli up to 20 per second , and in the frog up to 58 per second .
Beritofff concludes from galvanometrie records that the discharge-frequency of the flexion-reflex in the winter-frog may approach to 75 per second , and in the summer frog to 150 per second , and P. Hoffman nj that in the frog the frequency may follow at first at 100 per second , though soon dropping to half that number .
With these our observations by mechanical registration in the " spinal " cat are obviously perfectly compatible .
The datum that the spinal reflex-centre is a mechanism constructed with a recurrent refractory phase of 100\lt ; x duration was irreconcilable with obsef-vationsS tending to show that the duration of the spinal reflex-centre 's refractory phase is of an order not far removed from that of the nerve-muscle preparation itself .
The present results greatly relieve that difficulty , for , although their method does not measure the actual duration of the spinal refractory phase , they do show that the extremest length of that phase does not , under ordinary circumstances , extend beyond 12er .
III .
A third point requiring re-determination was the ratio between the maximal power of the refleSc tetanus and that of the peripheral tetanus excited by faradisation of the muscle 's motor nerve .
The statement based on direct experiment has been that the maximal power of the spinal reflex contraction ' amounts to less than six-tenths of that developed by the maximal contraction evoked by direct faradisation of the motor nerve.|| * * * S * ' Zeitschr .
f. allg .
Physiol. , ' vol. 13 , p. 35 ( 1912 ) .
t 'Zeitschr .
f. Biol. , ' vol. 62 , p. 125 ( 1913 ) ; , vol. 64 , p. 161 ( 1914 ) .
J ' Archiv f. Physiol. , ' 1911 , Suppl. , p. 233 .
S Sherrington and S. C. M. Sowton , * Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 49 , p. 342 ( 1915 ) .
|| V. Horsley , 'Brain/ vol. 21 , p. 547 ( 1898 ) .
, Reflex Nervous Discharge .
281 For examining this point , we have again used tibialis anticus as muscle , and as our spinal reflex the reflex evoked by faradisation of the popliteal nerve , and then in the same preparation we have registered similarly the mavimfl.1 tetanus obtainable by direct faradisation of the motor nerve ( peroneal ) itself .
We employed the same frequency-rate of faradisation for both reflex and direct effect , and both observations'were obtained with exactly the same registering apparatus , sometimes within four minutes of each other .
The myograph resistance was , as in our other observations , a torsion-wire and the record isometric .
The upper part of the scale of resistance of the myograph was , within the limits of pull developed by the Fig. 6.\#151 ; Maximal reflex ( R ) and maximal motor-nerve ( M ) responses of tibialis anticus ( spinal cat ) obtained from same preparation , rate of faradisation 75 per sec. in each case , and the secondary coil being at 12*8 cm .
= 2000 Berne units for both .
Under each the signal recording the interruptions in the primary .
muscular contraction , almost as open for the higher limits as for its range near zero .
The animals ( cat ) were young and small , and the maximal tensions in different animals observed varied between 650 and 940 grm. Our results have been as follows : The ratio between the power of the maximal tetanus of the spinal reflex and that of the maximal tetanus obtainable by faradisation of the motor nerve is often unity , 1/ 1 .
In not a few preparations it is somewhat less , e.g. , reflex/ direct = 9/ 10 ; in some preparations it is very markedly less , e.g. , 6'5/ 10 .
That the maximal power of tetanic contraction obtainable from a muscle reflex is often equal to the maximal tetanic power obtainable , under the Reflex Nervous same frequency-rate of faradisation , by direct faradisation of the motor nerve itself , bears on the question whether any one afferent nerve can set into action the whole of the reflex centre to which it is afferent.* Summary of Conclusions .
1 .
A single momentary stimulus of moderate intensity , .
, a break-shock , even though not far above threshold value of stimulation , applied to the afferent nerve of a spinal reflex centre , evokes from that centre not uncommonly a brief repetitive series of volleys of motor impulses .
This it tends to do the more the stimulus , within limits , is increased in intensity , but the state of the reflex centre at the time is also a decisive factor .
2 .
The rhythm of repetition of volley-discharges from the spinal reflex centre is traced by the mechanical method to be of synchronqus rate with that of stimulation of the afferent nerve up to a frequency of 55 per second , and , by a mechanical resonance method , up to a frequency of 65 per second .
By a " doubling frequency " method , it is shown further that the frequency-rate of the reflex discharge has not reached its limit under a stimulation of 75 per second , but surpasses that degree , though to what extent the method cannot say .
3 .
The maximal mechanical power of a muscle contracting under spinal reflex action is sometimes as great as the maximal which can be evoked from it by direct faradisation of the motor nerve itself .
* M. Camis , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 39 , p. 228 ( '1909 ) .

