" Report of the Comimittee on the Melbourne Telescope to the President and Council of the Royal Society .
" Communicated by the President .
The Committee were informed by Mr. Grubb at the close of last year that the telescope was ready for their final examination ; but the bad weather which has prevailed in Ireland ever since precluded all trials of its optical power till February 17 , when they met at Mr. Grubb 's works in Rathmnines Road .
1 .
The telescope was not finished at the time named in the contract ; but the Committee have ascertained that the delay arose solely from unfavourable weather , which not only impeded the actual work of polishing , but for weeks together made it impossible to test the figure of the specula .
They considered that it was far more important to send out a perfect instrument than to keep the exact time .
2 .
The Committee , after minutely and carefully studying the mechanical details of the equatorial , have come unanimously to the conclusion that it is a masterpiece of engineering .
Its movements are surprisingly smooth and steady ; it can be moved to any portion of the sky , even if it have to be reversed from one side of its pier to the other , in less than a minute by two operators and with very little exertion .
The clock is smooth and equable in its action , it is very powerful , and quite equal to its work .
Great change of rate , as from sidereal to luinar time , is effected by an ingenious piece of differential gearing ; small changes are made by a cam adjustment ; moreover it rings seconds , for the double object of comparing its rate with a chroniometer and to assist the observer in his observations .
3 .
The Committee are strongly impressed by the great convenienice to the observer of the arrangements of the hour and polar-distance circles , the facility of controlling their adjustment , and the easy access to the eyepiece .
4 .
The stability of the tube was severely tested , both in respect of its general stiffness and its power of resisting torsionl , such as might be produced by the weight of the small speculum whenl the telescope is off the meridian ; and the results were highly satisfactory .
5 .
In large reflecting telescopes it is usual to make provision for keeping a given diameter of the great speculum always in a vertical plane .
When they are equatorially mounted , this is done by rotating the tube in its cradle .
Here the tube does not turn ; but there is a special arrangement of hoop-suspension , by which , whatever diameter may be vertical , it is supported in a uniform and symmetrical manner .
The system of trian gular levers at the back of the great speculum is also colntrived so as to prevent them from exerting any pressure which might distort it .
This is a matter of the highest importance , and the attention of the Committee was specially directed to it .
They examined it most carefully , putting the telescope in various positions of ARE and P. D. on each side of the meridian , both by , day and niight , and could not find any sign of Jlexure or any dis , lortion of the image in any of these changes .
6 .
In order to test the optical power of the second speculum B ( the first onie , A , had been tried and approved by a member of the Committee on October 12 last ) , the telescope was directed to the following objects : In the daytime Venus and a Aindromeclm ; at niight ( which fortunately was clear and steady ) Castor , the Great Nebuila of Orioni , 4 Orionis , y Andromedule , Uranus , 1 Messier , 37 Messier , 46 Messier , and 5.1 Messier , from which it will be seen that both the light-collectingand defining powers of the inistruiment were fairly tried .
The powers used were 220 ( the lowest which can take in the enitire pencil ) , 350 , and 450 , all negatives .
Of course onie would not propose such ann instrument for the measurement of close doubole stars , work for which telescopes such as those of Poulkova and Ilarvard are possilbly better fitted ; but the Commiittee found that the ligit even of large stars was collected into sm:aall , lbard , and perfectly circular disks , free from rays ; and though some d , iffused light* surrounded them , it was exactly concentric with the central disks .
The 5th and 6th stars of the Trapezium of Orion were not only plainly seen , but were very bright ; &lt; Orioniis was well shown , and the companion of y Andromedw , was clearly dlvided with the powers of 350 and 450 , and the different tilnts of the components were evident .
Uranus was Nwell seen , but was surrounded by such a multitude of very minute sta-rs that , without access to the tables of his satellites , it was impossible to know whether any of them were seenu .
37 Al .
was broken into a heap of stars so large and brilliant that it quite lost the character of a cluster .
The planetary Nebula in 46 M. brought out most strikingly the lightcollecting power of this telescope ; for it ( which in most telescopes appears as a faint disk ) was revealed as a ring , bright even on the dazzling ground of the surrounding stars , which here were as brilliant as the components of the Pleiades appear in ordinary inistruments .
With respect to the Nebulae , it is needless to say more than that Lord Rosse considers its performanice in bringing out the details of the Orion Nebula , 1 Ml .
( the Crab ) , and 51 M. ( the Great Spiral ) , quite satisfactory .
7 .
The Committee had no opportunity of testing the spectroscope on The cause of this diffused light has since been discovered and removed .
t On the 19th of Februiary , however , the Committee had the advantage of the presenice of Mr. Lassell in the examination of Urantus amnong other objects with Speculni A , tand , guiided by his famliliarity with that object , they were enabled to make oiut stars , the positions of which , with great probability , corresponided to the places of the two most distant , and one of the nearest satellites .
stellar or nebular spectra ; but they have tried it on solar and electric ones , and consider that it will be very effective , from the solidity of its structure , and its large dispersion combined with a small deviation .
8 .
The balance of the grant , which will probably be absorbed by the expense of packing the instrument for removal , was not sufficient to justify the Conimittee in ordering a photographic apparatus which should be worthy of the telescope ; but some trials have been made with a " makeshift affair , " which confirm them in their opinion that it is most important to turn to accoulnt the photographic power of this magnificent instrument , not only for the moon , but for the planets and the sun .
On two or three occasions Castor and the moon were takeln with this temporary apparatus as to the star , its components impressed their images in good measurable disks in times varying from two to eight seconds ; with respect to the moon , on February 1 , when she was seven days old , and the air good , a remarkably hard and slharp picture , full of minute details , was obtained , which exhibits so strongly the great photographic power of the instrument , that they would regard it as a serious loss to science if this was not most -fully brought into action .
This is the more desirable because lunar and solar photography would utilize .
a considerable portion of time , during which the observing of nebulue is impossible .
After full inquiry , the Committee find that the cost of the necessary apparatus for this work , including a micrometer for measuiring distances and positions on the photographs ( like that described in the Philosophical Transactions , 1862 , p. 373 ) , could be provided for a sum not exceeding ?
400 ; and they earnestly hope that so valuable an addition may be made .
They have been given to understand that the Melbourne Governnenit have resolved on putting a roof over the instrument , but that they thilnk it can be more economically constructed there than here .
In this case it occurs to the Committee that the second form of roof described in Dr. Robinson 's letter miaht be pre .
, ferable to the more complex one there recommended ; and as it would be less costly , the .
difference would more than cover the expense of the photographic apparatus .
In this hope they have directed Mr. Grubb to prepare a detailed plan of that apparatus and of the second form of roof .
The Committee conclude by stating that they have no hesitation in declaring that the instrument is perfectly fit for the work for which it was destined .
They therefore consider that Mr. Grubb has fulfilled his contract , and have directed him to lose no time in preparing thenecessary cases and packing it for M elbourne .
They have also instlructed him to ensure it against the risk of fire during its stay .
The Comumittee feel bound to say that M r. Gruibb has put a most liberal construction on the terms of his contract ; and after their minute examination of the excellence of the telescope , and the amount and perfection of the machinery connected with it and its manufacture , they are convinced that Mr. Gruibb has been more influenced by the desire of producing a perfect instrument than by any prospect of pecuniary advaantage , and can scarcely realize the possibility of giving so much for the sum 2G namied in the contrraet , especially when it is considered that special works had to be erected for the purpose of constructing the telescope .
ROSSE , T. R. ROBINsON , D.D. Feb. 19 , 1868 .
WARREN DE LA RUE .
P.S. March 7th , 1868.-I would stronigly recommend that the photographic apparatus should be fitted to the telescope before it leaves Ireland .
WARREN DE .
LA RUrE .

