Statement of the principal Circumstances respecting the united Siamese Twins now exhibiting in London .
By George Buckley Bolton , Esq. Member of the Royal College of Surgeons , and of the Medical and Chirurgical Society of London .
Communicated by the President .
Read April 1 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 177 .
] The twin brothers , of whom an account is given in this paper , were born of Chinese parents in 1811 , at a small village in Siam , distant about sixty miles from Bankok , the capital of the kingdom .
When the intelligence of their birth had reached the ears of the King of Siam , he gave orders that they should be destroyed , as portending evil to his government ; but on being assured that they were harmless , and would be capable of supporting themselves by their own labour , he changed his intention , and suffered them to live .
About six years ago Mr. Robert Hunter , a British merchant resident at Siam , saw them , for the first time , in a fishing-boat on the river , in the dusk of the evening , and mistook them for some strange animal .
It was only in the spring of last year that permission could be obtained from the Siamese Government to bring them to England .
They were taken to Boston , in the United States , where they landed in August last , and six weeks afterwards embarked for England , and arrived in London in November .
They are both of the same height , namely , five feet two inches , and their united weight is 180 pounds .
They have not the broad and flat forehead so characteristic of the Chinese race , but they resemble the lower class of the people of Canton in the colour of their skins and the form of their features .
Their bodies and limbs are well made .
The band of union is formed by the prolongation and junction of the ensiform cartilages of each , which meet in the middle of the upper part of the band , and form moveable joints with each other , connected by ligamentous structures .
Underneath the cartilages there appear to be large hernial sacs opening into each abdomen , into which , on coughing , portions of the intestine are propelled , as far as the middle of the band ; though in ordinary circumstances these herniie are not apparent .
The entire band is covered with common integument ; and when the boys face each other , its length at the apex is one inch and three quarters , and at the lower edge not quite three inches .
Its breadth from above downwards is four inches , and its greatest thickness nearly two inches .
In the centre of the lower edge there is a cicatrix of a single navel .
It possesses little sensibility , and is of great , strength ; for upon a rope being fastened to it , the twins may be pulled along without occasioning pain ; and when one of them is lifted from the ground , the other will hang by the band alone without sensible inconvenience .
For the space of about half an inch from the median line of the band , the sensibility of the skin appears to be common to both .
The following experiment was tried upon them by Dr. Roget .
A silver tea-spoon being placed on the tongue of one of the twins , and a disk of zinc on the tongue of the other , the moment the two metals were brought into contact , both the boys exclaimed " Sour , sour ; " thus proving that the galvanic influence passed from the one to the other through the connecting band .
Their strength and activity are very remarkable .
They can throw down , with perfect ease , a powerful man .
They run with great swiftness , bend their bodies in all directions , and in their sports often tumble head over heels without the least difficulty or inconvenience .
In all the bodily actions in which the concurrence of both is required , such as running , jumping , playing at battledoor and shuttlecock , they exhibit a wonderful consent or agreement without the appearance of any previous communication of their intentions .
The intellectual powers of each are nearly equal , and they have both attained the same degree of proficiency in the games of chess , draughts , and whist .
They both possess great powers of imitation .
In their respective physical constitutions , however , several differences are observable .
Chang , as the boy on the left is named , has more vigorous health , and greater regularity of functions , than his brother , whose name is Eng. In general they take their meals and obey the calls of nature at the same time .
Asparagus , eaten by either of the twins , communicates its peculiar odour exclusively to the urine of the one who has eaten it .
The author details the circumstances of a catarrhal complaint which attacked both of them in December last , the symptoms and progress of which were similar in both , and from which they both recovered in the same manner and at the same time .
In their healthy state their ordinary pulses are generally alike , and are easily excited ; but that of the one may be accelerated , while that of his brother continues calm .
In their habits they are very cleanly and delicate ; in their dispositions affectionate , and grateful for every kindness shown to them .
There exists between them the most perfect harmony .
They always fall asleep at the same moment , and it is impossible to wake the one without also waking the other .
The author adverts , in the course of the paper , to the question whether they were the produce of a single or a double ovum ; and also into that of the possibility , at some future time , of effecting their separation with safety to themselves ; and he concludes by bearing testimony to the uniform kind treatment they have received from Capt. Coffin , Mr. Hunter , and Mr. Hale , who have evinced on all occasions the greatest anxiety for their welfare and happiness ; and to the liberal manner in which they have always afforded access to men of science for promoting any object of philosophical inquiry .

