40 BOTANY OF KERGUELEN ISLAND .
III .
Hepat By William Mitten , A.L.S. Nine species of Jungermanniaand one , were gathered by Dr. Hooker .
These were arranged in 5 genera , and 5 of the species were described as new , the remainder being similar to species found elsewhere ; none of the species were especially remarkable .
Mr. Moseley collected at the time of the " Challenger 's " stay 12 species , 7 of which were different from those obtained by Dr. Hooker , and 6 genera were also added to the flora .
[ Fourteen species were found by Mr. Eaton ; of these 8 species and 2 genera were additional to those previously known , bringing the whole number of the Hepatic re up to 25 .
The Hepatic re of Kerguelen are allied most nearly to those of the Auckland and Campbell 's Islands , and of Euegia .
Noteroclada porphyroriiiza , Leioscyphas pct 11ens , and Teinnoma are found also in Euegia .
Jungermannia color at a , and , are found at the Cape of Good Hope .
The former is , however , very widely distributed in austral regions .
As with the mosses , it is remarkable how many additions were made to the flora by the small number of specimens obtained by each collector .
1 .
Plagiochila heterodonta , Hook , f et Tail .
FI .
Antarct .
428 , t. 157 , f. 2 .
Christmas Harbour , on moist rocks , Hooker .
[ Royal Sound , barren , Faton .
The specimens closely resemble those gathered by Dr. Hooker ; it appears to he always a small species .
2 .
Plagiochila minutula , Hook.f .
et Tail .
Flor. Antarct .
427 , 1.157 , f. 1 .
Christmas Harbour , on rocks and the ground , Hooker .
1 .
Leioscyphus turgescens , Hook.f .
et Tail .
FI .
Antarct .
150 , t. 64 , f. 2 .
Hah .
[ Royal Sound , amongst Ditrichum Hookeri , Faton .
( Lord Auckland 's group ) .
2 .
Leioscyphus pallens , Mitt , in Journ. Linn.iSoc .
xv .
, 68 .
Caulis procum-hens ascendensque , parce ramosus .
Eolia sursum secunda , conniventia , imhricata , orbiculata , caviuscula , integerrima , cellulis rotundis parietihus crassiusculis arcolata .
Amphigastria erecto-patentia , lanceolata , profunde bifida , laciniis elongatis suhulatis .
Eolia involucralia majora , conformia ; amphigastrio parvo quadrifido laciniis dentatis integerrimisve .
Perianthium obovatum , ore truncato integerrimo .
Royal Sound , associated with F. turgescens , barren , Faton .
Stems from an inch to an inch and a half long , seldom branched , with the leaves line wide .
Leaves pale olive-green , becoming in age brown , rather firm , not HEPATIC-\#174 ; .\#151 ; W. MITTEN .
collapsing when ary , composed of rounded cells which at first contain small round granules that disappear in the older leaves .
Stipules i line long , the one immediately under the perianth is small and easily overlooked .
Perianth compressed .
No capsuliferous stems have been seen .
It appears that in this species , and in some others of the same genus , the compressed truncate perianth is the result of the small size of the involucral stipule , which in the coalescence of the leaves of which the perianth is theoretically formed , is too small to affect its form , the reverse of which is so evident in the perianth of Lophocolea .
Tab. III .
, Eig .
vi .
, plant not .
size ; 2 .
leaf detached ; 3 .
stipule from the stem ; I. perianth as seen laterally with involucral leaves ; 5 .
stipule next the perianth ; all magnified .
1 .
Lophocolea pallidovirens , Hook .
f. et Antarct .
439 , t. 159 , t. 9 .
Kerguelen Island , Moseley .
Near Vulcan Cove , barren , Eaton .
( Euegia ) .
2 .
Lophocolea Novae Zealandiae , et Lindenb .
( Jungermannia ) .
Loyal Sound , fragments amongst J DitriHill NAV .
of Mount Crozier , with young perianths , Eaton .
( New Zealand and Lord Auckland 's group ) .
3 .
Lophocolea humifusa , Hook.f .
et .
Tail .
FI .
Antarct .
436 , t. 159 , f. v. Christmas Harbour , Hooker ; near Observatory Bay , barren , Eaton .
The specimens are pale yellowish green , and seem not different from L. with which it agrees in perianth .
1 .
Teinnoma quadripartita , Hook .
Muse .
Exot .
117 ( Jungermannia ) .
Kerguelen Island , a few small fragments , Moseley .
Gathered also amongst Hicrana at Christmas Harbour by Hooker .
1 .
Jungermannia cylindriformis , Mitt , in Linn. Foe .
xv .
Exilis .
Caulis procumbens , ascendens , subsimplex , vix radicans .
Eolia subalterna , antice incurva , oblongo-ovalia , obtusa , sinu parvo obtuso obtuse bidentata , dentibus ssepe conniventer incurvis ; involucralia minora , acute bidentata vel caulinis conformia .
Periantliium elongatum , cylindraceum , obtusum , apice plicatum .
Iloyal Sound , in very small quantity with perianths amongst Eitrichum and hill N.W. of Mount Crozier , with Scapania clandestine , Eaton .
Stems about 2 lines long .
Leaves ^ line long , brownish green .
Perianth 1 line long , of the same colour as the leaves .
This minute plant is nearly related to J. inflata , Huds .
, having the same cylindrical perianth , and involucral leaves not much different from those of the stem , which are the characters of the genus Gymnocolea , Dumort , which comprises besides the European J. inflata , and the J. turbinate , Baddi .
Tab. III .
, Eig .
vii .
; 1 , plant not .
size ; 2 and 3 , perianth and involucral leaves , dorsal and lateral view ; 4 , cauline leaf , expanded ; all magnified .
2 .
Jungermannia leucorhiza , Mitt , in Joum .
Linn. xv .
68 .
Caulis procumbens , radicellis pallidis .
Eolia laxe inserta , quadrata subrotundave , sinu acuto obtusove bilobata , interdum lobo altero minore ; lobis acutis obtusisve , in-curvis ; cellulis rotundatis et oyali-hexagonis areolata .
Kerguelen Island , in very small quantity amongst mosses , barren , Moseley .
Stems less than 1 inch long , with the leaves \ line wide .
Leaves green , tinged with brown .
Incomplete specimens of a species not before noticed in the Antarctic regions , but which appears to be near to the European J. , Licks , and to some states of J. barbata .
3 .
Jungermannia colorata , Lehm.et Christmas Harbour , abundant on the hills , , Moseley ( with perianths ) .
1 .
Solenostoma humilis , Hook .
f. et FI .
Antaret .
ii .
434 , t. 158 , f. 6 .
( Junffermannia ) ; J. inundata , Flov .
Nov. Zealand .
128 , t. 93 , f. 3 .
Hab .
Christmas Harbour , barren , Hooker .
A few fragments with one perianth , Moseley .
Both S. humilis and J. inundata were originally described as stipulate species , .
no amphigastria have , however , been since found on the specimens .
It is probable that the figure of the supposed stipule of J. , may have been drawn from a fragment of Leioscyphus turgescens .
Scapania , Lind ( ex part ) .
Perianthium terminale , lseve , a tergo ventreque compressum , ante capsulse emissionem apice decurvum , herbaceo-membranaceum , ore truncato .
Involucri folia 2 , libera , caulinis conformia.\#151 ; Plantse terricolse .
Kami erecti ascendentesve , simplices vel furcati .
Eolia fere ubique sequalia , bifaria , equi-tantia , profunde biloba , laciniis subsequalibus apicibus rotundatis vel plus minus bifidis , textura e cellulis parvis .
Amphigastria nulla .
This description is that of the Synopsis Hepaticarum , with slight modification , it applies to S. densifolia , vertebralis , and , all so intimately related that the possibility of their being forms of one species may be conjectured .
These differ from the chiefly European species which were included in the original idea of Scapania , and which are now by right of priority assigned to Gray , in having leaves not keeled in the space between the equal lobes , a peculiarity which gives the plants a different aspect .
The perianth known from a single example on S. vertebralis , is like that found in Martinellia , but is narrowed upwards , truncate , the mouth hent over and denticulate .
1 .
Scapania densifolia , Hook .
Muse .
Hxot .
36 ( Jungermannia ) .
Kerguelen Island , Moseley .
The specimens agree with those gathered by Menzies , and are of the same brown colour .
The distinction between S. densifolia and its congeners may be thus stated:\#151 ; S. densifolia , Hook .
, lobis foliorum apice integris rarius emarginatis.\#151 ; S. vertebralis , Tail .
, lobis apice exsectis.\#151 ; S. chloroleuca , Hook .
f. et Tail .
, lobis apice bifidis .
HEPATIC-\#174 ; .\#151 ; W. MITTEN .
2 .
Scapania clandestina , Mont .
Bot. Crypt .
, t. 16 , f. 4 .
Balantiopsis incrassata , Mitt , in Journ. So .
Linn. xv .
197 .
Hill N.W. of Mt .
Crozier , in very small quantity with J. , Baton .
The stems of this small plant are about t inch high , and with the leaves J line wide .
Leaves firm , with small round cells ; lobes unequal and differing in their direction , the dorsal patent , the ventral nearly twice as large and divergent .
In the Kerguelen specimens the space between the lobes is keeled and curved , and both the lobes are denticulate , except the superior edge of the ventral lobe which is only denticulate towards the apex , and like that of the dorsal lobe is terminated by two larger teeth ( hence bidentate , with a small rounded sinus ) .
In this particular they nearly resemble the leaves of Balantiopsis diplophylla and B. erinaeea , Tail .
( Scapania ) , but differ in their dense areolation .
No authentic specimen has been seen of S. clandestina , Mont .
, but the figure quoted agrees except in the arcuation of the carina .
A single stem picked from a tuft of Aneura from New Zealand has the lobes more nearly equal , the carina straight , very much longer , and all the marginal teeth more spiniform ; it is probable as suspected in the Synopsis Hepati-carum , that the plant in a complete state would be different from the imperfect specimens yet seen .
This species departs from densifolia and its allies in the leaves being carinate , and thus corresponds to ; it has , however , the apices of its leaves bedentate , which give it a different look from any of the species referred to that genus .
1 .
Cesia atrocapilla , Hook.f .
et Tail .
Ft. Antarct .
423 .
Toul haven , on clay banks , Hooker ; in small blackish patches closely interwoven , Moseley .
From the examination of some branches of the specimens collected by Hr .
Hooker it appears that fertile shoots would have their upper leaves nearly or quite entire and nearly orbicular in form .
1 .
Lembidium ventrosum , Mitt.in Soc. Linn , xv .
, 69 .
Caulis humilis , late compacteque csespitosus , ascendens vel erectus , arcuatus , crassus , ra-mosus , innovationibus flagelliformibus ex amphigastriorum angulis emittens .
Folia inferiora remota , superiora majora , insertione fere verticalia , patentia , apicem caulis versus imbricata , rotundata , profunde concava , apice rotundata sinuve subindistincto subretusa , cellulis parvis parietibus angustis areolata .
Arnphigastria parva , cauli appressa , subtriangulari-ovata , apice subemarginata .
Perianthium in ramo superne valde incrassato , foliis amphigastrioque involucralibus convolutis ovatis apice brevi-ter bitri-denticulatis , trigonum , ovatum , apice plicatum , ore laciniis conniventibus denticulatis obtusum .
Hill N.W. of Mt .
Crozier , in dense tufts on the earth , with capsules just rising , Baton .
In extensive brownish olive-green patches .
Stems about 4 lines high , with the leaves scarcely \line wide , closely congested and cohering with very slender BOTANY OF KERGUELEN ISLAND .
hyaline rootlets .
Perianth large for the size of the plant , arising from the apex of a thickened branch ; apex obtuse before the egress of the rather large spherical capsule , hut afterwards sub-truncate .
Spores minute , round , smooth , brown , accompanied by fusiform moniliate fibres .
L. nutans , IIoolc .
f. et Tail .
FI .
Nov. Zeald .
160 , t. 65 , f. 8 , is a larger species , and appeared by itself different from any genus that has been described , whereas L. ventrosum resembles the Jungermannia Francisci of Hooker 's Brit. Jungermannise , t. 49 , a species which also produces thickly fleshy stolons , is irregular in the emar-oination of its leaves , has the same kind of stipules as well as perianth , and is therefore a species of Lembidium .
How this genus or group of species may be distinguished from the Cephalozia of Dumortier must remain for examination .
Tab. III .
, Pig .
viii .
; 1 , plant of not .
size ; 2 , portion of stem with leaves and stipules ; 3 , perianth and involucral leaves on lateral branch ; \#151 ; all magnified .
1 .
Herpocladium fissum , Mitt.in Journ. Linn. Foe .
xv .
, 69 .
Caulis per-pusillus , firmus , crassiusculus .
Polia alterna , patentia , ovata , obtusa , apice incurva , sinu parvo acuto breviter acute bidentata , concava , basi utroque caulem ad medium diametrum tegentia , margin dorsali interdum flexura sinuata rarius unidentata , cellulis densis obscuris areolata .
Amphigastria foliis similia , patula divaricatave , apice obtusa , integra .
Kerguelen Island , Moseley .
Stems 3-4 lines long , with the leaves J line wide .
The entire plant almost black .
Tab. III .
, Pig .
ix .
; 1 , plant of not .
size ; 2 , portion of stem , with leaves and stipule from the dorsal side ; 3 , lateral view of leaf and spreading stipule ; 4 , leaf detached and expanded ; \#151 ; all magnified .
1 .
Tylimanthus viridis , Mitt , in Journ. Linn. Foe .
xv .
, 197 .
Humilis .
Caulis erectus ascendensve , apice decurvus , subsimplex .
Polia distiche expansa , oblongo-quadrata , apice oblique sinu lato subtruncato-bilobata ; lobis obtusis , dorsali majore apicem versus interdum subdentatis , cellulis parvis rotundatis limitibus pellucidis areolata .
Boyal Sound , and hill N.W. of Mount Crozier , all barren , Faton .
Stems J inch high , green , with the leaves scarcely 2 lines wide .
Leaves green , frequently convex from the recurvation of the margin .
This nearly resembles T. tenellus , Tail .
( Gymnanthe ) from Tasmania , but it seems to be a smaller species .
Tab. III .
, Pig .
x. ; 1 , plant of not .
size ; 2 , portion of stem wTitli leaves enlarged .
1 .
Marsupidium excisum , Mitt , in Journ. Linn. Foe .
XV .
, 69 .
Caulis pri-marius repens , exinde ascendens , pallidus .
Polia inferiora minora , deinde superiore minora , omnia oblongo-quadrata , concava , sinu obtuso bidentata , integerrima sub-crenatave , lobis latis acutis incurvis , cellulis protuberantibus papulosa .
Boyal Sound , with Acrocladium politumand Fogonatum barren , Faton .
HEPATICiE.\#151 ; W. MITTEN .
Primary stems of the same colour as the leaves , fleshy , obscure , creeping ; from these arise erect or ascending simple or branched shoots , which are arcuate , their points attenuated and decurved .
The leaves where largest are about i line long , and when flattened of the same width , of a pale obscure olive-green ; bases not decurrent ; insertion variable hut generally oblique ; margins entire , or obtusely sub-crenate ; areolation of hexagonal or rounded cells with thin walls , enclosing a few green granules and projecting on both surfaces , but most on the external , as hyaline papulae .
Papulae of the same kind are also present on the younger stems , but less prominent .
No kind of inflorescence has been seen on this species , and its location here is conjectured from its having the same habit as M. Knight 'd , from New Zealand .
Tab. III .
, Pig .
xi .
; 1 , plant of not .size ; 2 , part of stem with leaves ; 3 , cells from middle of leaf ; both magnified .
1 .
Fossombronia australis , Mitt.in Linn. XV .
, 73 .
Caulis caespitosus , prostratus vel ascendens , arcuatus , radicellis purpureis .
Polia sub-quadrata , angulata , margin flexuosa , antice incurva .
Perianthium turbinatum , margin flexuosum , angulatum , semina rotunda limbo liyalino laevia .
Kerguelen Island , Moseley , Loyal Sound , and near Vulcan Cove , with young capsules , Eaton .
( Heard Island , Moseley ) .
Some of the specimens are very large , with arcuate stems more than an inch long , producing many purple rootlets .
The leaves are 1 line long by about 1J wide , green , with pellucid cells .
2 .
Fossombronia pusilla , Linn. Christmas Harbour , amongst moss , Hooker .
1 .
Noteroclada porphyrorhiza , Nees ; N. confluens , Ft. Antarct .
446 , t. 161 , f. 7 .
Christmas Harbour , on moist hanks , Hooker .
1 .
Sympliogyna podophylla , Thun(Jungermannia ) ; Gottsche , et Nees Syn .
Ilepat .
481 .
Near Vulcan Cove ; Loyal Sound ; hill N.W. of Mount Crozier ; all without fructification , Eaton .
1 .
Aneura multifida , Linn. ( Jungermannia ) .
West side of Swain 's Bay , on boggy ground , and near Vulcan Cove , all barren , Eaton .
2 .
Aneura pinguis , Linn. ( Jungermannia ) .
West side of Swain 's Bay , small and barren , Eaton .
l. Marchantia polymorpha , Linn. Christmas Harbour ; Hooker , Moseley ; Loyal Sound and Swain 's Bay , Eaton .
All the specimens produce scyphi , but are otherwise barren .

