3Q5 The Action of X-Rays on the Developing Chick .
By J. F. Gaskell , M.A. , M.B. Cantab .
, M.R.C.P. { Communicated by W. H. Gaskell , M.D. , F.R.S. Received November 11 , 1910 , \#151 ; Read January 19 , 1911 .
) ( From the Pathological Laboratory , Leeds University .
) This research was undertaken at the suggestion of Prof. Grunbaum , in order to discover whether any changes were produced in the chick embryo under the action of X-rays .
Embryos of various ages were examined , both directly after exposure to doses of various amounts , and also at later periods .
In none were any observations obtained of changes either in the embryo as a whole or in any particular organ , with the exception of one which affected all the tissues so exposed .
It was found that X-rays had a general effect on the rate of division of the cells of the embryo , causing a diminution in the number of mitoses .
This diminution was very evident in embryos exposed to long doses ; for instance , chicks incubated for three days and then given a two hours ' -exposure , showed so marked a diminution that a considerable search was required to find any mitotic figures , while in an embryo of three days , .exposed for four hours , no mitotic figures could be found .
In order to discover whether this diminution was progressive from the beginning of the exposure , or whether initially an increase of mitotic activity occurred , small doses of 5 and 10 minutes were given to embryos of four \#166 ; days .
These were used with their controls for the purpose of making \#166 ; quantitative counts .
The fore-brain was selected as the most suitable tissue for counting owing to the regular arrangement of the cells .
That portion only was counted which was of fairly uniform thickness , and , as far as possible , median sagittal sections only were used for counting , in order to .count only cells cut in their principal plane .
The sections were cut 5/ a thick and cells were counted by their nuclei .
The results of the count 's are shown in Table I. The eggs were exposed at about 20 cm .
distance from the anti-cathode .
, The figures obtained do not show very wide variations in each individual .count , so that they should be sufficiently reliable to establish the fact that there is a progressive diminution of mitotic activity even with small doses , founts were also attempted on the alimentary canal and the liver , but the difficulties of counting and the number of cells available did not give .reliable figures ; the same tendency to diminution was , however , observed .
Mr. J. F. Gaskell .
[ Nov. 11 , Further evidence of a different kind supporting the view that the diminution occurs equally in all tissues will be given later in this paper .
Table I. Expt. No. Duration Number of Mitoses Mitotic index or 1 of X-ray dose .
cells counted .
observed .
number per 1000 .
1 Control 2,738 79 28 *8 2 99 2,548 75 29 -5 3 99 2,576 77 29 -9 4 99 2,412 72 29 -8 Total 10,274 303 29 '5 1 5 minutes 3,063 72 23 -5 2 99 2,592 62 23*9 3 99 2,625 62 23 6 Total .
8,280 196 23 *7 1 10 minutes 3,769 66 17 -5 2 3,953 75 18 -8 3 99 1,877 39 20-7 Total 9,599 180 18*7 Other specimens were incubated for three days and then X-rayed for 15 minutes , 30 minutes , and one hour respectively .
The progressive diminution in mitotic activity was evident in these , though no actual counts were made .
It appears , therefore , that a progressive diminution of mitotic activity takes place , under the influence of X-rays , in a rapidly growing organism such as the chick embryo .
These results are contrary to those arrived at by Cattley* in the growing root tips of plants .
He found that an increasing stimulatory effect was obtained with increasing lengths of exposure up to one of 30 minutes ' duration .
From this point there was diminution , but not to a figure below that obtained in the controls until the exposure had lasted for two hours .
His exposures were at a somewhat greater distance , 25 cm .
from the anticathode , but this would not be a factor of sufficient importance to account in any way for the different type of results obtained .
It is possible that ftp .
initial stimulant effect may occur in the chick embryo also ; it must , however , be very brief ; smaller doses than one of five * ' Journ. of Path , and Bact .
, ' April , 1909 , vol. 13 , p. 380 .
1910 .
] The Action of X-Rays on the Developing Chick .
307 minutes ' duration , in order to settle this point , have not been given in these experiments .
The effect of this diminution of mitotic activity was then tried on the development of the enibryo .
Daily exposures of varying length were given to eggs which were incubated for the full 21 days .
These were opened on the twenty-third day if hatching had not taken place .
The results of various experiments are grouped together in Table II .
In all these experiments the controls hatched out at the proper time , with the exception of three , which were apparently sterile .
Table II .
Length of daily exposure .
Distance from anti-cathode .
t ; ... . .
Results .
Average growth in days .
2 hours 15 cm .
6 eggs with no growth 0 30 minutes 12 " 2 , 3rd day ; 3 , no growth 1-25 30 " 20 " 3 , 5th day ; 1 , 3rd ; l , no growth 4/ 5 20 " 20 " 1 , 10th day ; 1 , 7th ; 1 , 6th ; 1 , 5th ; 1 , 3rd 6 *2 15 " 12 " 1 , 14th day ; 1 , 13th ; 1 , 9th ; 1 sterile 12 10 " 12 " 2 hatched ; 1,19th ; 1 , 17th 19*5 10 " 20 " 2 hatched ; 1 opened on 17th day ; 2 sterile 21 5 " 12 " 3 hatched ; 1 , 8th day 21 In the calculations the sterile eggs and the one in the last series which only reached the eighth day 's development are neglected , this latter being decomposed .
The variations in the individual groups may be partly due to the'fact that each group of eggs was exposed together in a box ; the eggs were not , therefore , all equidistant from the anti-cathode .
Also the X-ray tube did not give a constant dose throughout the experiments .
Attempts were made to measure the dose by means of Sabaraud 's pastilles , but the results were unsatisfactory , especially in the case of the short exposures .
The table shows that a daily exposure of a certain length stops further development of the embryo at a certain stage .
The stage of development bears an inverse ratio to the exposure given .
The critical dose , which renders the hatching of the chick doubtful , is a daily exposure of 10 minutes at 12 cm .
distance in this series of experiments .
Those exposed * to a smaller daily dose all successfully hatched out .
Those given a daily five minutes ' exposure hatched out a few hours earlier than their controls but this was probably due to their shorter stay outside the incubator and their consequent shorter period for cooling .
The controls were always left out 20 minutes at least , while the others only stayed out while being VOL. LXXXIII.\#151 ; B. 2 A Mr. J. F. Gaskell .
[ Nov. 11 , exposed .
This is not , therefore , taken as any evidence of any stimulating effect on their growth .
The question then arose as to whether the effect was cumulative or recovery was complete .
A further experiment was undertaken , and the treatment was stopped on the twelfth day .
The results are shown in Table III .
Table III .
Length of daily exposure .
Distance from anticathode .
Results .
Average growth in days .
20 minutes 15 cm .
1,5th ; 1,7th ; 1,9th ; 1,11th ; 1,13th ... 9 15 " 15 " 2 hatched ; 1 , 19th ; 1 , 4th ; 2 sterile 20 10 " 15 " 3 hatched ; 3 sterile 21 [ 5 " 15 " 6 hatched .
21 In this experiment , therefore , 20 minutes ' exposure killed on or before the twelfth day , that is to say , death occurred while exposure was still going on .
The average development of nine days agrees fairly well with Table II , in which a 20 minutes ' dose gave development to six days .
The fact that a different X-ray tube was being used may also , to some extent , account for the difference .
Those given a 15 minutes ' exposure were able to hatch out , though in the previous experiments this did not occur .
These embryos had not yet reached the critical stage of development at which an X-ray dose of 15 minutes takes effect ; they therefore survived , and were able to hatch out at the usual time .
The embryo which only reached the fourth day of development is neglected , as this was probably accidental .
Those exposed for 10 minutes and 5 minutes hatched out as in the previous experiments at the usual 21 days .
The evidence from this experiment therefore tends to show that the effect is not a cumulative one , but that there is a critical point at which a certain exposure stops development .
Further experiments were intended to support this view .
Eggs were to be incubated up to a certain day and then given a single exposure of length differing in the case of each group .
In such a series the particular length of exposure which would just prevent further development ought to agree with that obtained from Table II , if the effect is non-cumulative .
All those receiving a smaller exposure should hatch out .
It has , however , at present not been possible to continue these experiments , so that this evidence is as yet lacking .
Additional facts supporting the non-cumulative view have been obtained from embryos opened at various stages of development while under1910 .
] The Action of X-Rays on the Developing Chick .
309 going daily exposures .
If alive , they were always at the correct stage of development ; none gave evidence of any retardation .
The fact that the X-rayed embryos which received small doses hatched at the usual time also implies that the recovery from the X-ray effect is complete for each exposure .
The hatched chicks were kept alive to watch their further development .
Unluckily , the first to hatch out under X-ray treatment did so in the late autumn , and the conditions were unfavourable for their proper development ; but nevertheless no difference could be observed between them and their controls .
They were killed and examined at various stages , but no differences were discovered in the development of any of their organs .
This is in accord with the microscopical evidence given earlier in this paper : the X-ray action is uniform on all tissues .
Particular attention was paid to the generative organs , but neither macro-scopically nor microscopically did they differ from the controls in any way .
The chicks obtained from the experiment in Table III are at present being brought up with the intention of testing their breeding capabilities , to see if any action has occurred on their generative cells .
They are at present all normal in appearance .
The meaning of these experiments , and the probable action of X-rays on growing tissues , may now be considered .
It has been shown by Minot , * by actually counting the number of mitoses per 1000 cells in the various tissues of embryos of different ages , that throughout embryonic life a rapid diminution of mitotic activity is going on .
He calls the figures obtained the mitotic index for that particular tissue .
This mitotic index varies at any particular stage of development according to the rapidity of growth of the particular organ at that moment , but this variation is not sufficient to obscure the general diminution of the index which is taking place .
The effect of X-rays is to bring about rapidly a progressive lowering of this mitotic index in all the tissues of the developing embryo .
This lowering is not permanent , and is completely recovered from so long as it has not been of too great a degree .
If , however , the exposure has been of a certain critical length , recovery no longer takes place , and the embryo dies .
This critical dose depends upon the stage of development reached by the embryo , that is to say , upon the value of the general mitotic index at that stage ; the larger the mitotic index is\#151 ; that is to say , the greater the reproductive activity\#151 ; the larger is the X-ray dose required to prevent further development .
The X-rays are , therefore , directly antagonistic to the reproductive activity * " The Problem of Age , Growth , and Death , " ' Popular Science Monthly , ' 1907 , vol. 71 , p. 510 .
310 The Action of X-Rays on the Developing Chick .
of the cell , and act in such a way as to lower , and finally to destroy , its power of reproduction .
' I am greatly indebted to Prof. Grunbaum for the suggestion of this research , for the use of the apparatus , and for his advice and encouragement .
For some months previously he had been working at this subject , and had been assisted by a grant from the Grant Committee of the Eoyal Society , I am fully aware that this paper is of the nature of a preliminary communication , and that the investigation is by no means complete .
As , however , I am unlikely to be able to continue it at present , I have thought it best ( with the concurrence of Prof. Grunbaum ) to publish it in its present unfinished condition rather than to wait for a further opportunity to complete the investigation .
Summary .
1 .
The action of X-rays is to lower the mitotic activity of growing tissues .
2 .
If this diminution is not too great , complete recovery occurs .
3 .
If the diminution is above a certain degree , recovery does not take place .
4 .
The critical dose , which just prevents recovery , varies with the stage of development of the embryo , decreasing as the mitotic index decreases .
5 .
No other macroscopic or microscopic changes have been observed to take place under the action of X-rays , either in the proportions or structure of the various tissues .

