1887 .
] Post-embryonic Development of Julus terrestris .
II .
" The Post-embryonic Development of By F. G. Heathcote , M.A. Communicated by Adam Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received November 16 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) With regard to the development of the ccelom and generative organs , I have obtained the following results .
The somites divide into two parts , as described for Strby Metschnikoff , one part remaining in the body and the other part projecting into the legs .
The cavities in these two parts together constitute the coelom .
The part within the legs breaks up and the cells give rise to muscles .
The part within the body passes dorsalwards along the thin sheet of mesoblast which unites it to its fellow of the other side , so that the two vesicle-like parts meet above the nerve-cord in the middle line .
They join so as to form a single tube , the generative tube .
The young ova , as well as the follicle cells surrounding them , are formed by cells proliferated from the walls of this generative tube .
The body parts of the somites of the antennae and mandibles break up and disappear , but those of the third pair of appendages give rise to the pair of salivary glands .
There are two pairs of somites to each double segment .
In the development of the nerve-system , I find that there are two cerebral grooves formed as in Peripatus .
They disappear early in the development .
The ventral nerve-system , which at first consists of two separate cords united by a thin median part , undergoes a pi'ocess of concentration which results in the presence of a single stout cord showing slight traces of its former double condition .
At an early period of development there is a cavity present in each gang'lion .
This cavity soon disappears , leaving no trace .
Two ganglia are developed to each double segment .
The tracheae are formed as epiblastic invaginations at the sides of and rather behind the legs .
These invaginations swell out inside the body so as to form two vesicles , and as the development proceeds two diverticula are given off from each vesicle , one running beneath the nerve-cord to meet its fellow of the other side , the other running dorsally , parallel to the body-wall .
Both these diverticula break up to form the tracheal tubes , the remaining part of the vesicle forming the tracheal pit .
There are two pairs of these tracheal invaginations to each double segment .
The stink glands are formed as invaginations of the epiblast , and a second coat ( muscular ) is added later in the development .
There is only one pair to each double segment .
dlie heart is formed from mesoblast cells in the body cavity .
244 Post-embryonic Development of Julus terrestris .
[ Dec. 8 , These cells which were directly derived from the hypoblast in the early stages of development , form a network in the body-cavity .
The heart is the result of a joining together of the meshes of this network , and thus is formed by the confluence of a series of spaces in the mesoblast , and has nothing to do with the development of the coelom .
The heart is placed in the middle dorsal line between the gut and the body-wall .
It has two pairs of arteries leading into the spaces of the fat body in each double segment , and two pairs of ostia .
The part of the body-cavity in which it lies is shut off from the rest of the body-cavity by an imperfect pericardial membrane which is continuous with the fat bodies .
The tube of the heart is composed of three coats , an inner structureless membrane , a median muscular coat , the fibres of which are disposed circularly in alternate broad and narrow bands , and an outer connective tissue coat .
The fat bodies are also formed from the same network of mesoblast cells which in this case secrete oil globules .
The body-cavity is a series of spaces between the gut and the body-wall , and is divided up by the mesoblast cells already referred to .
It is distinct from the coelomic cavities of the somites , and is therefore a pseudocoele .
The eye-spots are all formed in the same manner .
The hypo-dermis thickens and a cavity appears within it bounded by pigment .
This cavity becomes a distinct vesicle .
The front wall of the vesicle becomes very thin and furnishes the lens , while the cells of the back [ i.e. , most internal ) wall and sides become elongated and form the retinal elements of the eye .
The nuclei of the front wall become very faint and finally disappear , while the rest of the vesicle remains continuous with the hypodermis of the body-wall .
The cells of the vesicle are at ; first separate from the ganglion cells of the nerve-system , but a connexion takes place very early .
A number of very small cells appear within the walls of the vesicle at a very early period , and I believe them to be derived from the mesoblast cells in the body-cavity , but of this I am not certain .
They eventually become the pigment cells described by Grrenacher .
The most striking feature of the development is the reduction of the ventral part of the young animal and the increase of the dorsal .
In the just hatched animal the ventral region is nearly as large as the dorsal , and the legs are wide apart , having a distinct space between them .
As development progresses the dorsal region is increased , while the ventral is contracted till the bases of the legs are close together .
The corresponding concentration of the nerve-cord I have already mentioned .
In a paper on a Carboniferous Myriapod , Mr. Scudder points out that one of the principal points in which the genus differs from existing Diplopoda is the development of the ventral region .
The relations of the dorsal and ventral regions On the Sexual Cells of Millepora plicata .
1887 .
] of the body of the Euphoberia correspond exactly to the condition of the young Julus .
With regard to the double segments of Jnlus , Newport held that each double segment corresponded to two segments originally distinct which had fused together ; subsequent writers have held that each double segment is a single segment which has developed a second pair of legs .
Now considering the double segments with regard to the development as well as to the adult condition , we see that the mesoblastic segmentation is double , so are the tracheal , the nervous , and circulatory systems .
The only part of these double segments which is single is the dorsal plate with its stink glands which arise as invaginations in it ; this dorsal plate being so enlarged as to form a complete ring round the body of the adult .
Looking at the palaeontology , we find that in the Archipolypoda , a family including the Archidesmidre , Buphoberidae and Archijulidae , the dorsal plate did show distinct traces of a division .
Therefore I think that each double segment represents two complete segments , the dorsal plates of which have fused together to make one plate .
III .
" On the Sexual Cells and the early Stages in the Development of Millepora plicata .
" By SYDNEY J. HlCKSON , M.A. Cantab .
, D.Sc .
Lond. , Fellow of Downing College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , See .
R.S. Received November 19 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The investigations were made upon several specimens of Millepora plicata I found growing in abundance on the fringing reefs of Talisse Island , N. Celebes .
The young sexual cells , both male and female , are found in the ectoderm of the ccenosarcal canals , between the dactylozooids and the gastrozooids .
At an early stage they leave the ectoderm , and by perforating the mesoglcea take up a position in the endoderm .
The ova at an early stage become stalked .
The stalk of the ovum , which is simply a modified pseudopodium , serves to keep the ovum attached to the mesogloea .
The stalk may at times be completely withdrawn , and the ovum by amoeboid movements migrate along the lumen of the canal to a more favourable locality , where it becomes again attached to the mesogloea by a stalk .
Before maturation the germinal vesicle disappears , and a spindle-shaped body with longitudinal striee appears , which throws out the first polar globule .

