]\gt ; 316 Sir J. Dewar .
The -electric unction as of the three sensations and white show that there is no abrupt increase and consequent abrupt diminution in the white component .
This is not the case in the curves which up to now have been given .
The sensation } " " equal stimulus\ldquo ; curves are given for the normal spectrum .
The latter part of the paper describes the use to which the last table can be put in ascertaining the dominant wave-length of any mixed colour , and the amount of white mixed with it .
By the use of the table the luminosity of the colour can be found , as also its composition in terms of the three sensations .
Examples are given , and the application that can be made of the results in making colour sensitometers for colour photography .
the Thermo-electric Junction as Means of Determining the Lowest Ternperatures .
By Sir JAMES DEWAR , M.A. , D.Sc .
, LLD .
, F.R.S. ( Received May 16 , \mdash ; Read June 8 , 1905 .
) The inconvenience of using the gas thermometer at very low temperatures and the failure of platinum and other metal-resistance thermometers within or of the absolute zero , led me some years ago to consider the experimental behaviour of the thermo-electric junction at the lowest temperatures .
My special object at the time the experiments were made was to have a further confirmation of the melting point of hydrogen , and also of the lowest temperature reached on exhausting solid hydrogen , other than that I had found by means of the hydrogen gas thermometer .
* The results have remained unpublished , because my intention has always been to extend them to other thermo-electric combinations .
Not having been able to accomplish this project , they are now abstracted as affording useful informa- tion in this field of investigation , and as furnishing a general confirmation of my previous investigations .
A German-silver platinum couple was selected as likely to give the most uniform results at low temperatures , although subsequent experiments have led to the conclusion that it would have been better to have replaced the platinum by gold .
As regards resistance thermometers , I have shown that gold is more reliable than platinum at temperatures near the boiling point of " " The Boiling Point of Liquid Hydrogen , determined by Hydrogen and Helium Gas Thermometers ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 68 , 1901 .
1905 .
] Jfeans of Determining the Lowest hydrogen .
* The difficulties of the ation were considerable : it had to be carried out at the time in the neighbourhood of the machinery producing the iquefied gases required in the investigation , namely , oxygen , nitrogen , and hydrogen , so that the zero of the delicate galvanometer employed did not remain quite constant .
To remedy this I inserted a } make-and-break in order to get the readings of each observation at both ends of the scale .
In the process of one difficulty another presented itself , through the development of small but appreciable thermo-electric ents in the rocker .
Precautions had to be taken against these and at all other metal junctions against similar small thermo-electric currents , and it was even found necessary to have a correction on account of the resistance box , inserted in the circuit to bring large readings within the limits of the scale .
The , alvanometer and resistance box were inserted in the German-silver branch of the couple , the points of junction of the copper leads with the German-silver ends of the couple insulated and placed close ether within a vacuum test.tube packed with cotton wool to ensure equality of temperature .
Preliminary experiments showed that the junctions altered after having been subjected to the temperatu re of liquid hydrogen .
However , on re-soldering the junctions with hard silver solder instead of soft solder , the thermo-couple accurately repeated observations at the temperature of liquid oxygen , after having passed through a liquid hydrogen bath .
From this it appears that all such couples before calibration ought to be cooled suddenly in liquid air and then rapidly heated to the ordinary temperature , a similar operation being repeated with liquid .
If the couples return to their original state after such abrupt changes of temperature , then they are in a fit state for calibration .
Three series of observations were made to determine whether the esistance of the junctions varied to a noticeable extent with the temperature , namely , at the freezing point of water , at the boiling point of , and at the boiling point of hydrogen .
Six very concurrent observations with varying resistances in the resistance box were made between C. and C. These were reduced by the method of least squares , and ooave for the resistance of the circuit ohms .
Five similar results between the melting point of nitrogen and the boiling point of oxygen gave , by least squares , ohms .
Only two observations were taken in liquid , which are therefore not entitled to the same weight as those already viven , but the resistance appeared again about ohms .
As the variation of the resistance of the circuit was so slight , an attempt was made to reduce the results on the Bakerian Lecture , " " The Nadir of Temperature and Allied Problems ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 68 , 1901 .
VOL. LXXVI.\mdash ; A. 318 Sir J. Dewar .
The Thermo-electric Junction as [ May assumption of constancy , but this was not satisfactory .
However , on treating the variation of the resistance of the circuit as linear with the temperature , the data came into better agreement .
The following table contains the details of the observations made with the silver soldered German-silver platinum couple , the recorded readiugs of the galvanometer the means of several observed readings , corrected when necessary for resistance introduced into the circuit:\mdash ; where is the quotient of the mean galvanometer reading by the difference of the temperatures in the third column .
On plotting the first six of these results the 1st , 2nd , and 6th and means of the other three , viz. , at , lie nearly on a continuous curve ( fig. 1 ) .
The continuity of the curve , without any approach to abrupt FIG. 1.\mdash ; Thermo-electric Juncl , ion .
1905 .
] a of Determining the Lowest change of , even in the region of liquid hydrogen , shows that a silversoldered German-silver platinum couple is an efficient instrument for the determination of the lowest tenlperatures hitherto reached .
For example , we 1nay employ the curve ( fig. 1 ) to determine the temperature of the hydrogen under exhaustion in observation No. 8 .
examination of the curve in the rhood of the point of shows that we may write , or as an equation holding true for a few rees above or below absolute .
Hence if be the required temperature , we have or one of whose roots is .
From the graphicai analysis of the curve therefore we find the temperature of the hydrogen under exhaustion in tho last observation to be absolute , or some below the boiling point .
Similarly for observation No. 7 the te1nperature is found to be From the results curve with electromotive force , , as ordinate , to absolute temperature , , as abscissa , may be drawn , and this may be taken as a parabola , with the equation .
( 1 ) For another point , we have whence , subtracting , .
Any pair of observations will give and , after which , assuming any iven point , for example , as origin , and putting absolute and for , we get the equation connecting difference of electromotive force and difference of temperature An average value of from ( 2 ) is equal to ' that is ; correct value given point from ( 1 ) , .
Now the fact that the Tait-line does not remain straight , but bends downwards as we approach the absolute zero , indicates that the parabola is distorted as we approach its vertex , just as if the vertex were 320 Sir J. Dewar .
The Thermo-electric Junction , as [ May ) pushed up .
To look for a straight line near the vertex therefore we must keep to observations near the vertex .
I have therefore taken the four sets , Nos. 3 , 4 , 6 , 6 , from the table , similarly marked on the ( fig. in which the highest extends from ethylene exhausted , absolute , to the B.P. of oxygen , absolute .
FIG. 2.\mdash ; Thermo-electric JunctiolL These corrected observations Hence equations of form ( 2 ) , re-arranged more conveniently for calculation , are\mdash ; ( 3 ) ( 6 ) 42 1905 .
] Means of Determining the Lo lvest Temperatures .
Taking ( 3 ) and 6 ) , we get , and .
Therefore , leckoning from as origin .
Hence for we have Therefore , or is below , or is absolute .
For , or .
is below , or is absolute .
From ( 3 ) and 6 ) .
reckoning from as origin , we get There is hardly a doubt that at is not so great as , so that , as was anticipated , the observations are too far away from to give a workable formula .
Taking 4 ) and ( 6 ) we get nd Therefore , reckoning from as origin .
Hence for we have Therefore , or is below , or is absolute .
For , or .
is below , or is absolute .
From ( 4 ) and ( 6 ) , reckoning from as origin , we get In like manner from 5 ) and ( 6 ) we get and , whence , reckoning from as For , we get , and therefore , giving the melting point of hydrogen below its point , absolute ; and when , or the temperature of the hydrogen under exhaustion was absolute .
Observations ( 5 ) and 6 ) also lead to the equation with the boiling point of hydrogen as origin of temperature .
It is of importance to examine how an alteration of any of the constants in the formulae employed affects the temperature deduced .
Choosing any assigned temperature as origin , the value of at trom that origin is given by an equation of the form But if the value assigned to is obtained by dividing the difference of electromotive force through the range of temperature by , then 322 Sir J. Dewar .
The -dectric Junction as [ May this value of must be assigned to the mean temperature , and the formula becomes , or a quadratic for the determination of , when is known .
When the constant alone varies , differentiating we havs Thus if , and , we gst ; hence for that an alteration of from to would only alter from to ; or , roughly , 10-per-cent .
change in at temperature would only affect the temperature by 1 per cent. When the constant alone varies , differentiating we have ; hence .
in the same circumstances as before , ; 8.314 and thus , for a change , the corresponding change of temperature is , or if were altered from to would again bs changed only from to We may in a similar manner consider the effect of an error in reading on the deduced temperature .
For , or giving , in the se already considered , , so that an error of a unit on would only alter the value of by an eighth of a degree .
These numerical results may be summarised by saying in the neighbourhood of the temperature of solid umder exhaustion , it would require an alteration of per cent. in the values of or , and as much as 13 per cent. in ths value of , to alter the value of by one-tenth of a degree .
In general , it may be noted that for an alteration of the same actual ( but magnitude in the values of , and respectively , the corresponding alterations of are proportional , and 1 .
The general results with the Gerlnan-silver platinum junction may 1905 .
] Means of Determining the Temperatures .
be summarised in the following table , the typical equation being For reasons already mentioned , the temperatures deduced from the 5 ) and ( 6 ) set of experiments are in all probability the most accurate in the thermoelectric series of observations .
It is interesting to compare these results with those given in my former paper on the " " Point of Liquid determined by Hydrogen and Helium Gas Thermomet , the main object oi that paper was the accurate determination of the boiling point of hydrogen , I included in the experiments the recorded temperature of solid hydrogen under exhaustion of from 30 to 40 mm. , as given by a hydrogen gas thermometer filled initially at a pressure of mm. at C. This thermometer gave the point of hydrogen as , and the solid under exhaustion as ; in other words , the gas thermometer value isjust about a mean of the rssults given by ths thermo-junction .
This is , so far , con{irmatory of the reliability of the thermo-junction as a thermometric at the lowest steady temperature we can command .
Although it is not recorded in the paper on the " " Boiling Point of I found that the same helium thermometer which I used for determining the boiling point gave in exhausted solid hydrogen the temperature of , but as the helium had to bs corrected for the presence of a amount of neon , the result might , be a little too low .
My intention at the time was to defer the consideration of ths temperature of solid hydrogen for a further communication to the Royal Society , as distinctly stated in the original paper .
It is true that in a paper on ' Solid Hydrogen read at the British ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 68 , 1901 .
A of Determining the Lowest Temperatures .
Association in that is two years before , I gave the approximate melting point of hydrogen as between and absolute .
This value based on observing the melting-point pressure of solid hydrogen as being about 65 mm. , and therefrom calculating what the temperature should be at this pressure by means of a mean Rankine formula .
From the later experiments contained in my paper of 1901 a more accurate Rankine formula can be deduced , viz. , , and this gives the approximate temperature of as corresponding to 55 mm. , thus bringing the melting point given by the gas thermometer into substantial agreement with the lowest thermoelectric value .
As a record of the behaviour of the platinum thermojunction the following table has been calculated from the equations derived from the set of observations ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) , namely:\mdash ; and when one of ths junctions of the couple is assumed to be kept in boiling hydrogen , and the other either falls or rises through : range of some on either side of this temperature , which is about absolute .
These values show that , at as low a temperature as absolute , the sensibility of this couple is still half what it was at nbsolute , and therefore that , unless some absolute breakdown in the law connecting electromotive force and temperature below takes place , it must continue to be an excellent thermometer , and will record temperature with considerable accuracy down to the boiling point of helium , which is about or absolute .
A further paper will detail the results obtained in the study of the behaviour of helium at low temperatures.'Nature , ' September 21 , 1899 .
Studies with the Liquid drogen and Air Calorimeters .
325 I am indebted to Mr. J. D. H. Dickson , M.A. , of St. Peter 's College , Cambridge , for help in the discussion of the results , and to Mr. Robert Lennox , F.C.S. , for assistance in the conduct of the experiments .
Studies with the Liquid Hydro Air Calorimeters .
By Sir JAMES DEWAR , M.A. , Sc. D. , LL. D. , F.B.S. I. \mdash ; Specific Heats .
Received Read June The calorimeter employed in the following experiments was similar to that described in my paper on " " The Scientific Uses of Liquid in an improved form in Madame Curie 's work " " Recherches sir les Substances Radio-Actives , \ldquo ; 2nd edition , p. 100 .
A sketch of the apparatus appears in my paper on " " The } ) tion and Thermal Evolution of Gases Occluded in Charcoal at Low Temperatures.\ldquo ; The ement employed consists essentially of a large vacuum vessel capable of holding 2 or 3 litres , into which is inserted a smaller vacuum vessel of 20- to 50 .
capacity the calorimeter , the latter being sealed on to a long narrow tube which projects from the mouth of the exterior vessel , in which it is lightly held by a loose packing of cotton wool .
A little below the upper end a branch tube is taken off which conveys the volat gas from the calorimeter to the gas receiver .
To the extrernity of the projecting tube a small test-tube , to hold the portions of substance experimented on , is attached by a short piece of rather wide rubber tubing which forms naturally a movable joint that can be bent into any position .
With care I have found this valve gives as results as more elaborate means of securing the dropping of the substances into the calorimeter .
A small vacuum vessel which may contain either solid carbonic acid , liquid ethylene , or liquid air , into which the test-tube is placed , cools the materials to different temperatures below those of the laboratory ; or alternatively the substances may be heated in the vapour of water or other liquids .
' Roy .
Inst. Proc 1894 , vol. 14 , p. 398 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1904 , , p. 12$ .

