100 Mr. W. Gardiner .
The Histology of the Cell Wall , " The Histology of the Cell Wall , with Special Reference to the Mode of Connexion of Cells .
Preliminary Communication .
" By Walter Gardiner , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow and Bursar of Clare College , Cambridge .
Received August 11 , 1897 .
Since 1883* I have repeatedly endeavoured to discover some refined and generally applicable method by means of which the fine fibrillre , or " connecting threads , " traversing the cell membrane might be identified with certainty , and the fact of their existence settled beyond dispute .
I was also anxious to be in a position to investigate the development of the threads in endosperm tissue .
My researches met with little encouragement until 1894 , when I succeeded in finding a new method , by means of which I obtained excellent results with the young developing endosperm tissue of Tamus communis .
This I have further elaborated , so that either the original method , or modifications of it , can be applied to tissues generally .
In the present communication I propose to give a brief account of my researches , leaving a more detailed description to a future occasion .
The methods used by earlier observers for the investigation of connecting threads are essentially based upon those of Sachs and of Hanstein , by means of which they demonstrated the characteristic structure of sieve-tubes .
Tangl 's important results of 1880 , which were confirmed and extended by myself in 1883 , were in fact obtained by Hanstein 's method as such , and are the outcome of quite special conditions , and a happy combination of circumstances , depending upon the fact that in dry ripe seeds the tissue is so poor in water that with the iodine and Schulze 's solution ( Chlor .
Zinc .
Iod .
) , the cellulose fails to give the usual blue colour , and thus allows the darkly stained threads to come into view .
The method ceases to work with unripe seeds , or even with ripe seeds which contain a certain percentage of water , and with ordinary tissue is quite useless .
Certain modifications of the method of Sachs , and the method of Hanstein , which may be described in general terms as involving both a more regulated application of the swelling agents and the use of aniline dyes in place of iodine , were first and independently introduced by Russow and myself in the years 1882 and 1883 .
As regards my own researches , my first results in 1882 were obtained by a modification of Sachs ' method , and consisted in swelling sections of fresh tissue with sulphuric acid , and then staining with Hofmann 's violet ( methyl violet ) washed out with glycerine , or with Hofmann 's blue dissolved in picric acid ( picric Hofmann 's blue ) .
This was succeeded * Gardiner , * Roy .
Soc. Proc./ No. 229 , 1883 .
with special Reference to the Mode of Connexion of Cells .
101 in 1883 by a second method , which was a modification of that of Hanstein , and consisted in treating sections of fresh material with iodine solution , swelling with Chlor .
Zinc .
Iod .
and staining with picric Hofmann 's blue or methyl violet .
Certain results obtained by this latter treatment were so promising that in my final paper in 1883 , with the customary rashness of youth , I described the method as being " perfectly satisfactory but no long period elapsed before I found in practice that it was of but limited application .
Speaking generally , and excepting Poirault's* researches , I think one is justified in saying that since 1883 little or no advance has been made in the improvement of methods , and that later observations rest mainly on small modifications of the methods of llussow and myself .
The careful and detailed work of Kienitz-Gerlofff unfortunately serves in great measure to demonstrate the unsatisfactory nature of the results obtained by the sulphuric acid method , and to prove that unless the threads are of exceptional size , as in Viscum , or as in sieve-tubes , the method is unreliable .
The above remarks equally apply to such of my own results as depend upon the sulphuric acid modification .
An advance was , however , made by Poirault .
In place of experimenting on sections of fresh tissue , he killed and hardened pieces of tissue in dilute iodine solution , and from the preserved material he then cut sections , which were swollen with Chlor .
Zinc .
Iod .
, or sulphuric acid , and stained either with eosin , Poirrier 's acid brown , methyl violet , crocein , or aniline green , Poirault 's researches are limited to the ferns and other vascular cryptogams , and lie buried , so to speak , in his paper " Anatomical .Researches on the Vascular Cryptogams .
" While certain of his figures are , perhaps , not entirely convincing , the results of his research are most important , and of ' great interest .
I am ashamed to say that I was unaware of the existence of this paper until the autumn of 1895 , which was a year after I had elaborated the main lines of my own method , and applied it with success to the study of young endosperms .
The great merit of Poiranlt 's modification is that here for the first time provisions are made for preserving and hardening the tissue before taking sections .
New dyes are also u^ed .
With certain kinds of tissue this method appears to have given excellent results .
I may now introduce my own researches .
In the course of observations on this particular branch of cytology , certain salient facts come to the fore .
In the first place one learns that material preserved in alcohol does not appear to be suitable for the investigation , and consequently fresh tissue has been used .
Secondly , that it * Poirault , ' Ann. Sci. Not .
( Bot. ) , ' vol. 18 , 1893 .
f islienitz-Grerloff , ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1891 .
i 2 102 Mr. W. Gardiner .
The Histology of the Cell Wall , appears generally necessary to bring about a definite swelling of the cell wall .
Thirdly , that it is not easy to stain and isolate the threads , even when they are known to be present .
These facts place many obstacles in the way of successful research .
The difficulties attending the manipulation of fresh tissue are sufficiently obvious , and are apt to be so increased by the subsequent swelling as to render any really refined investigation well-nigh impossible , and as long as the threads cannot be stained so as to stand out clearly from the rest of the wall their identification is out of the question .
These difficulties , which are sufficiently pronounced in the case of peculiarly favourable material such as that of endosperm , are only magnified when the investigation is concerned with ordinary or young tissue .
In addition to the drawbacks already mentioned , the existing methods of research hitherto in use make no provision for the preservation of tissue .
It became obvious , therefore , that if the inquiry inti ) the relations of the cell wall and the connecting threads was to be prosecuted with success , a more refined method must be devised , which could be reduced to terms of the usual procedure , viz. , killing , fixing , hardening , preserving , cutting section , staining , and mounting , and that the methods heretofore in use were too coarse for so delicate an investigation .
I do not propose in the present paper either to give an account of the discovery of my method , or to go into elaborate technical details .
It is sufficient to say that , expressed in the simplest terms , the method appears to depend upon the use of two principal reagents , viz. , the osmic-acid-uranium-nitrate mixture of Kolossow as a fixative , and safranin as a dye .
As a preservative I have used thymol water , and have obtained excellent results with material which has remained in it for as long a period as three years .
Sections may be cut by hand or with the freezing microtome .
The fixing and staining reagents must be introduced and employed in different ways , the exact manner of procedure depending upon the character and age of the particular tissue under observation .
This can be best illustrated by means of definite examples , and since the whole method is somewhat complicated , it will be expedient to consider under separate heads ( 1 ) the killing and fixing , with which is also associated the swelling , and ( 2 ) the staining .
In material such as that of young endosperms ( e.g. , the endosperm of Tamus communis ) , no swelling is required , and the tissue , cut into small pieces , may be both killed and fixed at one and the same time by Kolossow 's reagent , and then preserved in thymol water for future use .
Where only slight swelling is necessary , treatment with water may precede that of Kolossow 's reagent .
In certain classes of tissue , where the walls are swollen with comparative ease , such as with special Reference to tlic Mode of Connexion of Cells .
103 that of the ordinary vegetative tissue of Phaseolus , Tamus communis , Nerium oleander , Salisburia Ac .
, small pieces are killed and swollen in an aqueous solution of picric acid , and then fixed in the Kolossow 's reagent and preserved in thymol water .
Finally , where the tissues are more resistant , as , for instance , in Robinia pseudacacia , Prunus laurocerasu , or Aucuba japonica , treatment with picric acid may be followed by more severe swelling by means of solutions of zinc chloride or sulphuric acid , to be succeeded as before by fixing , hardening , and preserving .
The blackening of the cell contents caused by osmic acid may be removed by bleaching .
From such preserved material sections may be cut when required .
The process of staining is no less complicated than that of killing and fixing , and is best considered under two heads , viz.:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The methods applicable to certain endosperms and tissues of similar character .
( 2 ) The methods applicable to the majority of tissues .
In certain special cases it is possible to stain the threads directly either with safranin alone or by introducing safranin by means of a somewhat intricate substitution method such as that which I used with excellent results in the case of the endosperm of Tamus communis , where the sequence of staining was Hofmann 's blue ( or soluble water blue ) , methylene blue , safranin , and in which moie-over the Hofmann 's blue was dissolved in dilute picric acid or uranium nitrate , and the methylene blue in dilute salt solution .
Once stained with safranin , all sorts of modifications are possible .
Thus , the safranin may be succeeded by gentian violet or by eosin , and with gentian violet Gram 's method is applicable and most advantageous .
As safranin forms a precipitate with chromic acid , sections stained with safranin may be treated with this reagent , and then with silver nitrate , thus effecting a silver staining of the threads .
Silver nitrate itself also lorms a precipitate with safranin .
In a. , cases the staining is practically limited to the threads .
When the above methods of direct selective staining are apply 1 to ordinary tissue they are found to fail , fox* it usually happens that the whole of the wall becomes deeply stained , so that the threads aie no longer ' visible .
I was for some time completely baffled by this circumstance , but I ultimately adopted the well-known method of staining and washing out , using for the purpose orange G or acid fuchsin .
With ordinary tissue the staining appears to be more easily accomplished than with the thick mucilaginous walls of endosperm cells , and the method may be somewhat more syncopated .
Fxeeilent results may be obtained by staining at once with safranin and washing out with orange G. This may be followed by staining with gentian violet , succeeded by treatment with acid fuchsin , or the sequence of staining may be safranin , gentian violet , acid fuchsin .
jSuInstitutions in which safranin , gentian violet , and eosin are included 104 Mr. W. Gardiner , The Histology of the Cell , give good results .
The method of staining indirectly by washing out may also be applied to endosperm tissues generally .
The stained sections are best examined either in water or in very dilute glycerine .
I have as yet given little attention to the question of making permanent preparations , although I have initiated certain experiments which may possibly lead to a satisfactory result .
It is probable that the method in its present form will not be found to be available for the study of adult lignified or suberised cells , though up to the present I have made no observations upon such tissues .
The investigation of young tissue will , however , doubtless give good results , and will establish that in them , also , the general structure prevails , 1 am strongly convinced that the above method , or similar methods , based upon " non-alcoholic " treatment , will be found to be peculiarly suitable for the investigation of the tissues of plants , and will in the future lead to observations of interest and importance .
A summary of results may now follow .
As my new method owes its origin to a study of the cells of endosperm I propose to deal with that tissue first .
The present investigation entirely confirms and extends the results I obtained in 1883.* At that time , however , many important problems still awaited solution .
In the first place , what was believed to be the typical and universal structure could only be demonstrated with particularly favourable material and in a limited number of plants .
Fui'ther , even in ripe seeds , where treatment with iodine proved that connecting threads were present , special difficulties were experienced when attempts were made to stain them with aniline dyes .
Lastly , for young seeds the methods were quite unsuitable .
With the present methods we are in a position to investigate the structure of endosperms generally , and to follow their development even from the earliest stages .
The more refined method also gives more sure and satisfactory results .
It is possible to make certain general statements concerning the connecting threads of endosperm cells .
In the first place , the histological structure of endosperm establishes a point of great importance which is only emphasised by the study of tissues generally , viz. , that in pitted cells the pit-closing membrane is invariably traversed by threads .
For descriptive purposes these may be called " pit-threads .
" Threads may also be present which traverse the general wall , and these may , similarly , be called " wall-threads .
" In the somewhat exceptional cases of unpitted cells the thread system is necessarily composed of " wall-threads " only .
In many pitted cells both " pit-threads " and " wall-threads " are present ; but in the majority of cells the threads appear to be limited to the pits , * Gardiner , ' Roy .
So .
Proc. , ' No. 225,1883 .
with special Reference to the Mode of Connexion of Cells .
105 though it is not improbable that even in such cases other threads traversing the general wall will be found to occur .
Where both " pit-threads " and " wall-threads " coexist in one and the same cell , the former are stouter and more readily staiuable than the latter .
In pitted cells the pit-threads are necessarily in groups , and it is a point of some interest that the wall-threads also are usually in groups\#151 ; as though a pit were present .
This is especially striking in such cases as the unpitted cells of Tamus ( fig. 1 ) and Hordeum vulgar .
In Tamils communis , while the side walls exhibit the usual arrangement of isolated groups of threads , the end walls are traversed by a single large group , as in sieve-tubes .
The structure of the endosperm cells of martagon ( fig. 2 ) is I 'm .
1 .
ilG .
2 .
of some interest .
The cells are pitted and each pit has its group of " pit-threads .
" In any given group the threads are arranged in bundles , recalling the similar arrangement of achromatin fibres , which Strasburger and others have found to accompany nuclear divisions in this plant .
The mode of development of the threads 106 Mr. W. Gardiner .
The Histology of the Cell Wall , and the phenomena which accompany germination were invest.-gated in the endosperm of Tamm only .
The threads are found to be present at a very early stage , and can be detected even in the very youngest and thinnest walls .
They are at first uniformly ' lstrlb"ted '\#153 ; r the cell membrane .
In the case of the side walls , as surface growth proceeds , small groups of threads become separated om one another by intervening areas of clear membrane , while in .he end walls , where the extension of surface is less , this segregation into groups does not take place .
In the early stages the growth in thickness of the wall is not uniform , and pits are formed on the side walls at those points where thread groups occur ; but they have only a transient existence , and ultimately disappear .
It is , however , interesting to note that the vegetative tissue of Tamus communis consists for the most part of pitted cells .
In germination the ferment , in the first instance , appears to be conducted into the wall by means of certain of the threads , but when once an entrance is effected the corrosive action rapidly spreads quite independently of the threads , becoming the more potent as it reaches the neighbourhood of mucilaginous and less resistent middle lamella .
In a given wall the penetration commences simultaneously at several centres , and at each centre the affected areas assume the general form of small cones with their apices directed towards the cell lumen ( fig. 3 ) .
Moreover , since the action of the Fie .
3 .
ferment soon extends from cell to cell in two adjoining cells , where the common wall is affected on both sides , each side having its cone , the base of one cone appears opposed to that of the other .
At this stage , by appropriate staining , the threads may still be seen shining through the disorganised mucilage of the affected areas .
As the ferment action proceeds the boundaries of the several areas con-tinually extend and at length unite when the whole of the wall is involved .
The disorganisation of the wall is accompanied by marked stratification .
The sphere of influence of the ferment action with special Reference to the Mode of Connexion of Cells .
107 is curiously limited and hardly extends beyond the immediate neighbourhood of the absorbent foot of the young embryo .
The mode of disappearance of the wall by the coarse corrosive action of the ferment , and the manner of its proceeding with so little relation to the threads , seems to indicate that the structure of endosperm cells has more relation to the conduction of impulses and of food supply than to the needs of germination .
Satisfactory as are the results derived from the study of endosperm cells , the real success was achieved when the method was so modified that it could be applied with certainty and success to the investigation of ordinary tissue , and to speciaiised forms of it , such as puivini and tendrils .
The unsatisfactory character of the somewhat meagre results hitherto obtainable have not , I think , succeeded in generally establishing a conviction that the structures postulated have necessarily an actual existence .
Botanists have , on the contrary , been inclined to look askance at results depending upon such statements as " a stained area " or " a doubtful striation , " and there lurked in the minds of many , the suspicion that the histology of endosperms was possibly exceptional , and peculiar to that tissue .
For the future such doubts need no louger be entertained , since it is now easy to demonstrate that the structure exhibited by endosperm tissue is in all respects entirely typical of plant tissue generally .
In these days of active investigation , it is not often given to one to be the medium for the criticism of his own research .
This good fortune , however , now falls to me , and I hasten to say that in the light of the present in vestigation it is quite clear that apart from endosperms , and with such exceptions a my earlier work on the continuity of the protoplasm , in puivini and other tissues , does not afford absolute proof that a communication between cells actually occurs , but for the most part only brings forward strong evidence that such connection is exceedingly probable .
At this juncture , also , I note , with satisfaction , that the results then obtained were able to save me from the error of a belief in the existence of a system of open pits which have since then been repeatedly figured and desciibed , and against which I have persistently spoken .
As I have already remarked , my new method makes it possible to establish with certainty that the structure of all kinds of plant tissue is precisely similar to that of endosperms , and that exactly the same modifications are exhibited .
In pitted cells every pit-clo.sing-membrane is traversed by its group of threads , and in un-pitted cells similar groups also occur .
In square-ended tubular cells , such as those of the leaf stalk of viartagon ( tig .
4 ) , the 108 Mr. W. Gardiner .
The Histology the Cell Fig. 4 .
numerous small isolated groups of wall-threads are present on the side walls , and a large group occupies each end wall .
In certain cells both " pit-threads " and " wall-threads " may simultaneously be present .
The method gives equally good results with thin or thick-walled tissue , and in the case of the thinnest walls an " en face " view can be obtained where a sectional view fails .
The threads vary in size .
They are , for instance , exceedingly thick in Viscum , where they are seen with the greatest ease ; they are well developed in Phaseolus multiflorus and Lilium , and they are fine and delicate in Aucuba japonica ( fig. 5 ) .
The connecting threads may be Fig. 5 .
observed equally in the epidermis and cortex , and in all the living cells of the tissues of the central cylinder .
In a section of any given tissue , it can be readily seen that all the cells are placed in communication with one another .
One is tempted to expatiate upon the wonderful beauty of the appearance presented by the walls studded with their pits , each pit with its closing membrane traversed by the thread complex after the manner of sieve-tubes .
It is indeed a sight which cannot fail to convey a lastmg impression of wonder and surprise .
The pit-threads of such pulviui as were examined presented no striking difference , either in appearance or distribution , to the similar structures in ordinary tissue , and the same appears to be true of the sieves of tendrils .
The important point , however , is this , with special Reference to the Mode of Connexion of Cells .
109 that in all these tissues the threads perforating the pit-closing membrane can be readily seen , and even counted .
A point of interest was observed in the epidermal cells of communis and Lilium martagon ( fig. 6 ) , viz. , that the external or free Avails are penetrated by a system of threads which radiate from the cell lumen and extend to the cuticle , so that the latter is the only structure intercalated between the protoplasm and the environment .
The important bearings of this observation are obvious .
Fig. 6 .
The following is a list of the tissues which have up to the present been investigated , together with the date of observation .
In each case connecting threads were observed .
In 1894 .
The young and developing endosperm of Tamus communis and the young endosperm of Asperula odorata .
In 1895 .
The cotyledons of Tropwolum magus .
The endosperm of Lilium martagon and Fritillaria imperialis .
The root of Ranunculus asiaticus .
The leaf stalks of Tamus , Viscum , and Marattia elegans .
In 1897 .
The leaf stalks of Aucuba Primus laurocerasus , Nerium oleander , Lilium martagon , Lilium Salisburia adiantifolia , and Asplenium rutcefolium ( fig. 7 ) .
The flower stalk of Fig. 7 .
110 Mr. W. Gardiner .
The Histology of the Cell , Taraxacum dens-leonis .
The perianth-leaves of Lilium martagon .
The puhini of Mimosa sensitivaand Robinia ( fig. 8 ) .
The tendril of Cucurbita pepo .
The endosperm of Hordeum vulgar .
Fig. 8 .
Although the research is still in its preliminary stages , since my attention has been chiefly directed to the elaboration of the new method , yet the results already obtained are sufficiently numerous and suggestive to enable one to make certain remarks and general statements .
It is impossible to resist the conclusion that the connecting threads consist either wholly or partly of protoplasm , and this view is largely confirmed by the staining reactions .
It is , however , not improbable that the protoplasmic filament may be surrounded by a mucilaginous sheath .
Osmic acid induces no blackening as it does in the threads of many sieve-tubes , and I am inclined to believe that in ordinary tissue the threads consist for the most part of ectoplasm , and are to be regarded in fact as extensions of it .
The threads appear to be present ab initio .
This fact , coupled with the surface-growth of the cell wall , furnishes a sufficient explanation of the " barrel figures " so generally assumed by the various thread g'roups .
The resemblance to the similar figures which accompany unclear division is therefore superficial .
Nevertheless it seems certain that the threads do , as a matter of fact , arise from that part of the cytoplasm which at the period of formation of the cell plate forms the fibres of the so-called " nuclear spindle , " and that these fibres become , so to speak , partially imprisoned in the young wall .
My results appear to indicate that in a given cell the whole system of connecting threads arise at this early stage , and that no subsequent development occurs .
This statement will , however , require careful confirmation , and has certain bearings on such interesting questions as the theory of grafts and " sliding growth .
" In dead cells , such as those of ripe endosperm , the threads appear to degenerate into mucilage , and this is possibly also the case in adult lignitied and other cells .
In the particular tissues which I have investigated , the threads can be shown to be present in all cells which still retain their cellulose character , and although I have not actually succeeded in with special Reference to the Mode of Connexion of Cells .
Ill observing them in adult lignified and suberised tissue , it seems certain that they will be found there also .
There can be little doubt that they occur universally in the cells of all the tissues of all plants .
From this arises the fundamental conception that the plant body must be regarded as a connected whole , and that the cell walls occupy only a subservient position .
Thus our views as to the ultimate histology of tissue must be considerably modified .
A new vista also opens to cytological research in the direction of the accurate determination of the distribution and orientation of the threads in the various tissues , which can hardly fail to lead to important results .
Should the structure presented by the external walls of the epidermal cells of Tamus communis and Lilium be found to be of general occurrence , we shall be prepared for most interesting results when the examination is extended to secreting gland cells : to such non-cellular organisms as certain algae and fungi , and to such unicellular bodies as spores and pollen grains .
Two important functions are , doubtless , performed by the connecting threads , viz. , the conduction of impulses and the conduction of food .
As to the first , there can be no question ; and as to the second , one cannot but reflect that it must be of the greatest advantage to the plant to be able to transmit from cell to cell as occasion requires , and in a definite and determinate direction , highly organised food supplies and even protoplasm itself .
It is , of course , possible that in the threads themselves a definite division of labour may occur as regards the transmission of food and the conduction of stimuli .
The consequences which arise from our more perfect knowledge of plant histology are obvious and far reaching .
In the first place we learn that the structure exhibited by sieve-tubes , which in the past was regarded as peculiar , is shown to be typical of cells generally , with this slight difference , however , that in sieve-tubes a secondary enlargement of the pores appears to occur .
All the cells of a tissue must be regarded as being connected together by delicate groups of protoplasmic threads , which traverse either the general wall or the pit-closing membrane , just as the sieve-tube threads traverse the so-called " sieve plate , " a fact which at length enables us to do tardy justice to the dominant position occupied by the protoplasm of the plant body , and to understand how the deep-seated cells of a tissue can telegraph their needs to those at the periphery , cell after cell taking note of the wording of the message , or how the peripheral cells may communicate to the interior their sense of gravity , light , heat , or touch , to which the whole organ may reply as its peculiar organisation directs .
As an integral part of cell structure , the connecting threads con- 112 Lord Rayleigh .
stitute a factor , which cannot fail to have an important bearing in all general questions , such as the growth of the cell wall , the conduction of food , the ascent of water , the process of fertilisation , the penetration of fungi into their host , the process of secretion , and the transmission of the impulses which determine growth and movement of plant organs .
Concerning certain of these problems , I should like to make a few concluding remarks .
As to the passage of water from the root hair to the vessel , the presence of connecting threads in the cells of root tissue makes it possible to imagine that the ordinary laws of osmosis may be profoundly modified , and that the filaments which establish protoplasmic continuity may conduct stimuli , leading , for instance , to a difference in reaction of the proximal and distal halves of any given cell .
Similarly , it is conceivable that a definite polarity is established , which helps to determine the direction of the flow .
As to the larger question of lapid water movement , although this is neither the time nor the place to enter into theory , yet I cannot refrain from remark-ing that it is not impossible that the threads , doubtless present in large quantities in dead vessels , may , if they suffer mucilaginous change , have some bearing on the question , by assisting to sustain the water at any given level or attracting water in the immediate environment .
In any case , I am strongly of opinion that the part played by mucilage and the force of hydration have not as yet received sufficient attention .
As to movements generally , I am still unable to accept Pfeffer 's view ' of the subsidiary part played by the protoplasm in connexion with turgidity , * and I am still of opinion that the ectoplasm is the master factor which determines the condition of the cell .
The present research demonstrates among other things that there are fixed points in the ectoplasm , and this may have some bearing on the possibility of establishing the periodic or sudden contractions and dilatations which I believe are associated with turgescence , and of Avhich such a phenomenon as the effusion of water from the cells of a stimulated Mimosa pulvinus is but an abnormal instance .
" On the Viscosity of Hydrogen as affected by Moisture .
" By Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received September 8 , 1807 .
In Sir W. Crookes 's important work upon the viscosity of g.isesf the case of hydrogen was found to present peculiar difficulty .
" With each improvement in purification and drying I have obtained # Gardiner , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , 1887 .
f ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1881 , p. 387 .

