]\gt ; [ 203 ] VIII .
on Explosrives .
No. II.\mdash ; Fired Gunpowder .
By NOBLE ( late R.A. ) , , F.R.A.S. , F. C.S. , , cmd F. A. ABEL , C.B. , F.R.S. , V.P.C. Received May 2 ] , \mdash ; Read NIay 29 , 1879 .
ENTS .
Page Criticisms on the first memoir of the authors by the Commission appointed by the Academy des Sciences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
204 Statement of mean results of analysis of the gaseous and solid products of explosion of all the descriptions of powder experimented with . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
206 Complete tabular statement of results of analysis of products obtained at different densities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
207 Discussion of M. BERTHELOT'S views as to the expression of the decomposition of gunpowder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
208 Observations relating to the formation of potassium hyposulphite . . . . . .
- . . . . . . . .
211 Special experiments relating to this point . .
213 Further analysis of R. L. G. powder used in the experiments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
217 Composition of other gunpowders used in later experiments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
218 Results furnished by these . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
219 General observations on the complete analytical results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
220 Further experiments on the determination of heat generated by fired gunpowder . . . . . .
223 Tabulated results of heat determinations . . . .
227 Results of calculation of the mean specific heats of the products of explosion . . . . . . . .
228 Volumes of permanent gases generated by different powders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
229 Relation of volumes of permanent gases to the units of heat evolved . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
230 Pressures given by mining powder and WalAbboy powder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
231 Actual temperatures of explosion . . . . . . . . .
232 Relation between tension of the gases developed in a gun and the volume which they occupy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Table of tensions of the in a gun and ( 2 ) if allowed to expand without production of work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
) Table showing total work performed in a gun by Waltham Abbey powder . . . . . . . . . . . .
236 Application of this table . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
230 Effects of retention of the shot in the chamber of a gun upon the tensions developed . .
, .
242 Estimation of the position of the shot in a gun 's bore when complete combuoetion has been effected . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
244 Concluding remarks . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . .
245 Appended memorandum of proportions of elements found in each product of explosion , and existing in the original powder . .
246 Abstract of experiments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
262 Note with respect to hyposulphite . . . . . . . . . .
Products of explosion calculated on the supposition that all hyposulphite found originally existed as sulphides .
278 DURING the course of the experiments that we have undertaken in extending our researches on explosives to the investigation of the action and results of fired we have had occasion to examine some points connected with the subject of our former memoir on " " Fired Gunpowder and as the attention which the researches described in that memoir have received , especially on the Continent , is an evidence both of the theoretical and practical importance of our subject , we propose , prior to laying before the Society our researches on gun-cotton , to discuss a few points of considerable interest which have arisen out of our former vestigations , and to give the results of some further experiments on gunpowder .
The Academy of Sciences of France having done us the honour to appoint a Commission to report on our researches , there have appeared in the ' Comptes Bendus ' joint report by General MORIN and M. BERTHELOT , and two separate memoirs on certain chemical points by the latter savant .
The high appreciation of our labours shown by the has induced us to pay special attention to one or two points mentioned by the distinguished reporters as being open to discussion ; we will now proceed to consider them , and to detail some further experiments calculated to throw light upon the different questions raised .
The principal points to which General MOBIN and M. BERTHELOT draw attention are\mdash ; 1 .
Potassium hyposulphite has been found as one of the products of combustion of gunpowder by every cent investigat .
But the question arises , Is this product either wholly or in part primary ?
Or is it to be considered as secondary , formed from the primary products during the rapid loss of heat to which they are exposed ?
Or is it , finally , to be considered only as formed from the sulphide by the ption of oxygen , during the processes of removal from the cylinder and of analysis , and therefore to be regarded as an accidental product ?
2 .
In the memoir in question we stated that , according to our view , " " any attempt to express , even in a complicated chemical equation , the nature of the metamorphosis which a gunpowder of average composition may be considered to undergo , would only be calculated to convey an erroneous impression as to the simplicity or deffiuite nature of the chemical results and their uniformity under different conditions , while possessing no important bearing upon an elucidation of the theory of the explosion of gunpowder M. BERTHELOT , however , in a memoir upon the explosion of powder , based on our results , proposes to represent these results by a system of simultaneous equations expressing the chemical metamorphosis undergone by powder , at least as far as regards its fundamental products .
3 .
In the joint report of General MORIN and M. BERTHELOT , and in the separate memoir above referred to of M. BERTHELOT , special attention is called to the heat disengaged by the explosion , and our determination , presented , as the reporters point out , with some reserve , is considered to be too low , partly because the apparatus used did not admit of extreme delicacy , and partly because determinations have been made by M. TROMENEC and MM .
Roux and SARRAU .
* 'Comptes Rendus , ' tom .
lxxxii .
, p. 487 .
Idem .
, pp. 400 and 469 .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
We now proceed to the discussion at length of these points , prefacing our remarks by Tables I. and II .
hereto annexed .
The former of these tables , in addition to giving the results of one or two analyses which had not been completed when our first memoir was published ( we have not considered it necessary to repeat the portions of this table already published ) , shows the mean percentage composition , by volume , of the gases , and the mean percentage composition , by weight , of the solid residues for each of the three principal powders examined by us .
It also shows the highest and lowest proportions in which , with each powder , any particular product occurs , and gives the results obtained from the examination of the products of combustion of four descriptions of powder differing in many respects from the powders which formed the main subject of our memoir .
Table II .
contains the complete results of all our analyses ; it shows the proportion by weight of each solid and gaseous product , and includes also the amount of water pre-existent in the various specinlens of powder operated on .
' CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
CAPTAIN AND MR. .
A. ABEL ON IRED GUNPOWDER .
A careful examination into the nature and proporbions of the products by the explosion of three descriptions of service gunpowder , differing but little in composition from each other , and by one and the same sample of powder under different conditions as regards pressure ( or space which the explosion took place ) , led us to the conclusion , which it may be as well to repeat in the precise terms used in our former memoir , namely , that " " any attempt to express , even in a comparatively complicated chemical equation , the nature of the metamorphosis which a gunpowder of average composition may be considered to undergo when exploded in a confined space , would . . . .
only be calculated to convey an erroneous impression as to the simplicity or the definite nature of the chemical results , and their umiformity under different conditions\ldquo ; ( p. 85 ) .
In giving expression in the foregoing terms to this conclusion , we certainly did not intend to convey the impression , nor do we consider that our words are at all susceptible of the interpretation , that it was impossible to put into some form of equation ( as was done , for instance , by and SCHISCHKOFF in the case of the analytical results arrived at by them ) , a representation of a variety of reactions , which if assumed to take place simultaneously among different proportions of the powder-constituents , might express results approximating to one or other of the analytical results obtained by and might thus afford some approximate theoretical representation of the metamorphosis of gunpowder when fired in closed vessels .
But the very great val'iations in composition ( of the solid portion more especially ) of the products of explosion of samples of gunpowder presenting only small differences in constitution , afforded , in our opinion , most conclusive proof that the reactions which occur among the powder constituents are susceptible of very considerable variations , regarding the causes of which it appears only possible to form conjectures , and that consequently " " no value whatever can be attached to any attempt to give a general chemical expression to the metamorphosis of gunpowder of normal composition In one of the series of interesting communications made .
BERTHELOT to the Academy des Sciences in 1876 , as contributions to the " " History of Explosive Agents that chemist gives to our conclusions , as expressed in our former memoir , an interpretation which , as above pointed out , they certainly cannot be considered to bear , when he says we have stated that the variations in the proportions of the principal products of explosion are opposed " " to all general chemical representation of the metamorphosis produced by the explosion an opinion contrary , as he states , to all that is known in chemistry .
Starting with the above assumption of the nature of our views , M. BERTHELOT proceeds to demonstrate that , in order to account for the formation of chief products in some particular proportion in which potassium sulphate is so small as to allow of its being neglected , the powder-constituents must be presumed to react upon each other simultaneously , in prescribed proportions , according to three , or , if the sulphate amolmt to 12 or 14 per cent. , according to four out offive different * Comptes Rendus , ' tom .
lxxxii .
, p. 400 .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. .
A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
theoretical -reactions , which , if assumed to occur simultaneously , in variable proportion and numbel , M. BERTHELOT regalds as satisfactorily explaining and definitely reducing to five simple reactions the formation of carbon dioxide , carbon oxide , potassium sulphate , sulphide and carbonate , from a powder of what we call normal composition . ?
After giving further equations which apply to the extreme results ( in to the chief products only ) assumed to be obtainable from the introduction , on the one hand , of excess of saltpetre , on the other , of excess of charcoal , into the composition of powder , M. BERTHELOT passes to what he terms the accessory products and , excluding from these potassium hyposulphite , which he deals with separately , he first gives two equations to account for the production of sulphocyanide ; then two more to explain the existence of ammonium sesquicarbonate ( which he believes to be formed by the action of water-vapour on potassium cyanide ) .
The existence of sulphuretted or free hydrogen are explained by two more equations , and marsh gas is assumed to result from " " the pyrogenons decomposition of the charcoal in the powder Lastly , an equation is given to account for the possible formation of traces of hyposulphite , which BERTHELOT howeyer regards as a product formed during the collection and analytical treatment of the solid residue , but which we nevertheless believe we five simple eactions in question are thus explained:\mdash ; 1 .
2 .
, , , , 3 .
, , , , .
4 .
, , , , 5 .
, , , , When sulphate is formed in such small quantities that it may be neglected , the simultaneous reactions snpposed to occur are 1 , 2 , and 3 , by quantities of the powder proportionate to the numbers , and but when the sulphate amounts to 12 or 14 per cent. , the simultaneous reactions supposed to occur are Nos. 1 , 3 , 4 , and 5 , with quantities of powder responding to the numbers , about , and .
As there is only one single instance out of twenty-nine analyses of powder residues in which the sulphate was found to amount to as little as per cent. of the solid products ( the next lowest proportion being nearly double that amount ) , it can scarcely be assumea1 that M. first arrangement of reactions can represent any but a most exceptional result .
Again , the acceptance of his arrangement of four equations in the proportions he indicates as accounting for the formation of the products when the sulphate amounts to 12 or 14 per cent. of the total constituents , the assumption that a somewhat considerable proportion of charcoal should remain unoxidised ; in fact , nearly per ccllt .
of carbon should be found in the residue .
The detection and determination of such a constituent of powderresidue does not involve any difficulty , yet there were only three instances out of eighteen residues ( in which the sulpbate was considerable in amount ) where the charcoal was present in estimable quantities ; in two of these it was below 1 per cent. , in the other it was only per cent. In a few other ebiducs only traces of charcoal were discovered ; the larger number contained none .
These points are referred to in illustration of how imperfectly M. BERTHELOT'S not vory simple meant of theoretical reactions correspond to results actually obtained , even so far only as the chief products are concerned .
shaU conclusively prove*to be formed in very notable quantities before the solid residue can have undergone alteration from external causes .
It will be seen from the foregoing outline of M. BERTHELOT'S theoretical explanation of the chemical changes involyed in the metamorphosis of gunpowder , that the simplest form of expression which he can give to the formation of the products of explosion consists in the incorporation of nine or ten distinct reactions occurring simultaneously , but in very variable proportions , which have to be supplemented by three or four other chemical equations , by which the formation , during the process of cooling , of certain products believed to be secondary , is explained .
Now , although such speculations as the above are unquestionably interesting , and , it may be added , of a nature which must occur to those who desire to give some kind of definite explanation , for purposes of elementary instruction , of the chemical changes involved in the explosion of powder , we fail to see that beyond this they do more than afford the strongest confirmation of the correctness of our conclusion , that " " no value whatever can be attached to any attempt to give a general chemical expression to the metamorphosis of a gunpowder of normal composition With regard to the hyposulphite which is included in our statement of the composition of the solid products of explosion , we have to submit the following considerations .
In the analytical results furnished by the solid residues , as detailed in our first .memoir , the hyposulphite ranged in amount from 3 to 35 per cent. ; and on comparing the results of different analyses , it is observed that in most instances the proportion of monosulphide was small when the hyposulphite was large in amount , and in a few instances\mdash ; all of them F. G. powder-residues\mdash ; in which the proportion of the latter was very high , there was no sulphide at all .
Being fully alive to the possibility of the existence of potassium polysulphide in the solid residue giving rise to the production of some hyposulphite through the agency of atmosphelic oxygen , great precautions were taken , especially in the later experiments , in collecting and preserving the residue and in submitting it to treatment for analysis , to guard against this possible source of error .
In the first place , it should be mentioned that the residue consisted in nearly all cases of fused , very hard masses , collected at the bottom of the explosion vessel , the sides of which were , moreover , generally covered with very thin films .
The action of atmospheric oxygen upon the fused solid could only be superficial , but would vary in extent with the amount of surface of the residue exposed to the air during removal from the explosion apparatus or subsequent exposure .
The latter was avoided as much as possible , as the residues were transferred at once , as they were detached from the surfaces of the explosion-vessel , into small bottles , in which they were carefully sealed up .
It was only in one or two instances that , before opening the bottles , an *See note at end of this memoir .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
odour of sulphuretted hydrogen , distinctly perceptible at the sealed surfaces of the mouths , indicated a slight imperfection in the of the bottles .
The difficulties in the way of reducing to a minimum the exposure to air of the residues during their detachment from the explosion-yessel were , however , very much greater .
We pointed out in our first that in almost all cases { he residues were in the form of exceedingly hard and compact masses , which had to be cut out with steel chisels , and that , although portions of the mass were detached in the form of lumps , a considerable of it flew off before the chisel in fine dust .
The utmost care was taken to avoid exposure of the detached residues to the air , but it was of course impossible to avoid their being more or less attacked by atmospheric oxygen during the period of their collection .
There is no doubt , moreover , that the residues , which differed greatly from each other in structure and in their tendency to absorb moisture and to become heated upon exposure to air , were susceptible in very variable degree to atmospheric oxidation .
We , therefore , are quite prepared to admit that , of the large amount of hyposulphite found in a number of the analyses , a proportion , and in some instances possibly a large one , may have been produced by the agency of atmospheric oxygen during the removal of the residue from the apparatus ; and the results of some special experiments , which we ] presently quote , appear to favour the conclusion that in those instances where no sulphide was discovered , its absence have been ascribable to atmospheric oxidation .
We regret having neglected to make ally reference to this probable source of error in describing the results of our analyses , our belief being at the time that any important alteration of the residue by atmospheric action was sufficiently guarded against ; at the same time , it is right we should point out that , in several instances in which the circumstances attending the dation of the solid residue and its nsequent mechanical condition were apparently most favourabIe to its accidental oxidation , the proportion of hyposulphite formed was comparatively moderate in amount .
On the other hand , we cannot concur in M. BERTHELOT'S view that the existence of hyposulphite among our analytical results is also ascribable in part to accidental oxidation of potassium sulphide during the analytical manipulations .
These were carried out with great lmiformity so far as certain preliminary operations were concerned , which consisted , firstly , in dissolving the residue in water had been carefully boiled to expel air , and , secondly , in filtering the solution in closed vessels\mdash ; both of these being rapidly completed operations .
The receiving vessel contained pure ignited cupric oxide , with which , as soon as the filtering operation was completed , the solution was agitated until it became colourless .
The fact that in some of the analyses , all of which , we repeat , were uniformly conducted in regard to the above points , from 3 to 10 per cent. only of hyposulphite were found , while the proportion of monosulphide in these analyses ranged from 7 to 19 per cent. ( being above 9 per cent. in eight instances ) , appears to afford substantial proof that accidental atmospheric oxidation during the collection and analysis of the residues is not sufficient to account for all but the very small quantities of hypohite which M. BERTHELOT considers could only have pre-existed in the residue examined by us .
That chemist appears , moreover , to have overlooked the following facts given by us in our first memoir:\mdash ; 1 .
Separate examinations ( conducted precisely alike ) of the upper and lower portions of some of the residues showed that considerably larger proportions of hyposulphite existed in the .
portions .
In one case quoted by us in our first memoir , the upper portion contained per cent. of hyposulphite , while the lower portion only contained per cent. At the same time there was only a difference of per cent. in the proportions of tYlonosulphide existing in the two portions of the residue upper part , lower ) , while there was a very great difference in the amount of free sulphur upper part , lower ) .
2 .
One of the small buttons of the fired solid products , of which there was generally one found attached to the firing plug in the cylinder , was examined for sulphide and hyposulphite ( it having been detached without fracture , and at once sealed up in a small tube ) .
It contained the latter , but none of the former , while the mass of the residue of this particular experiment contained a somewhat considerable proportion of sulphide .
3 .
The production of high proportions of hyposulphite was but little affected by any variations in the circumstances attending the explosions ( i.e. , whether the spaces in which the powder was exploded were great or small ) , excepting that the amount was high in all three cases when the powder was exploded in the largest space .
On the other hand , a great reduction in the size of grain of the gunpowder used peared to have a great influence upon production of hyposulphite , as when passing from a very large grain powder ( pebble or R. L. G. ) to a fine grain powder ( F. Thus the production of hyposulphite exceeded 20 cent. in \mdash ; 3 experiments out of 9 with pebble powder ( Nos. 8 , S8 , 43 ) .
3 , , , , 10 , , R. L. G. , , ( Nos. 1 , 11 , 70 ) .
7 , , , , 9 , , F. G. , , ( Nos. 16 , 18 , 19 , 40 , 42 , 47 , 69 ) .
It was below 10 per cent. in\mdash ; 4 experiments out of 9 with pebble powder ( Nos. 7 , 9 , 11 , 37 ) .
5 , , , , 10 , , R. L. G. , , ( Nos. 3 , 39 , 44 , 68 , 96 ) .
1 , , , , 9 , , F. G. , , No. 17 .
There were no circumstances connected with the carrying out of the explosions , or with the collection and analysis of the residues , to which the above great differences between the results furnished by fine grain powder and by the two large grain powders could be ascribed .
While , however , certain of the great variations in the proportions of hyposulphite and sulphide , which cannot be accounted for by variations of structure of the residue CAPTAIN AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
or of manipulations favourable to oxidation by atmospheric agency , appear to us to demonstrate that the hyposulphite is formed in the solid residue before the explosionvessel is opened , and indeed in such amount that it must be regarded as an important product ( whether it be a primary or a secondary one ) , we have been anxious to obtain , if possible , some mole decisive evidence as to the probable proportions of hyposulphite actually existing in the residues furnished by the explosion of gunpowder in closed ] .
We therefore varied the method of collecting and preparing the residues for analysis , in the experiments of which the following is account :\mdash ; 1 .
5960 grains ( grammes ) of the R. L. G. and pebble powdel'S used in these researches were fired in the large cylinder under a density of Immediately on openin the cylinder in each case , the solid products were as nearly as possible divided into two equal portions , consisting of the top and the bottom .
Eacl ) of these portions was again divided roughly into two equal parts , one of which , in lalge lumps , was , as rapidly as possible ( being but for a few seconds exposed to the air ) , sealed in dry bottles freed , or nearly so , from oxygen , the other moieties being finely ground and freely exposed to the air for 48 hours .
The only point of difference calling for remark in the appearance of the two residues was the difference in colour , the residue from the pebble being decidedly the lighter in colour , both on the and in fracture ; but there were material differences in the behaviour of the portions of the two powder residues .
With both powders , the bottom ground portion heated vely decidedly more than the top ; but while , in the R. L. G. , this tendency was exhibited in a remarkably low degree , with the pebble the tendency to heat was , we think , abnormally high .
In the latter case , the ground deposit from the top began to heat immediately on being placed upon paper .
The deposit on the apex of the cone and in the interior , where the heat was highest , changed rapidly in colour to a light yellow , tinged with green .
The ground bottom part of the residue darkened considerably during the deYelopment of heat , and an orange-coloured deposit was condensed on the surface .
When the heat was highest , a considerable quantity of vapour was given off Its smell was very peculiar ; .
was distinctly perceptible , but was by no means the dominant odour .
The maximum temperature appeared to be reached at bout twenty minutes after exposure .
A thermometer placed in the centre indicated a temperature of over 60 F. and the paper on which the residue was placed was burnt through .
After half an hour 's exposure the deposit cooled rapidly .
It should be observed that the physical characteristics of the deposit were altered very materially by the heating .
When the residue is taken out of the exploding cylinder , it is difficult to pound in the mortar , being somewhat unctuous ; but after the development of heat it becomes crisp , and is readily powdered .
2 .
In the examination that we have instituted of the products of explosionl of sample of sporting powder ( CURTIS and HARVEY'S No. 6 ) , and of mining powder , the following course of proceeding was adopted for the removal of the solid residue ffom the explosion-vessel , and its preparation for analysis :Distilled water which had been freed from air by long-continued boiling , was siphoned into the explosion-vessel when the latter had cooled , so that air was never allowed to come into contact with the solid residue .
When the cylinder was thus quite filled with water ' .
it was closed , and set aside for sufficient time to allow the residue to dissolve completely .
The solution was then decanted into bottles freed from oxygen , which were quite filled with the liquid , and carefully sealed up umtil required for analysis , in carrying out which the course already described was pursued .
The products obtained by the first of these modifications of the ordinary course of procedure were submitted to partial examination , the chief object being to see to what extent the proportions of hyposulphite and sulphide varied in the upper and lower portions of the residue , and the extent to which they were affected by the great difference in the mode of treatment sustained by the different portions of one and the same residue .
The proportion of hyposulphite was determined in every instance , and the products were also examined in all cases for sulphide .
In the first experiment the exact proportion of this latter constituent was ascertained only in one of the three portions of the residue in which it existed ; it will be seen that one of the ground portions contained none .
The sulphate was determined in all instances , and , in the second experiment , the proportions of carbonate existing in the upper and lower portions of the ( unground ) residue were ascertained .
The analytical results obtained are given in the following table:\mdash ; CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. .
A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
It will be seen from the foregoing numerical results that in both experiments those portions of the residue which were exposed to the air only for a few seconds , and of which only small surfaces were thus exposed ( as they were collected in large lumps ) , contained hyposulphite ranging in amount from 5 to per cent. Those portions which were specially treated for the purpose of favou to the utmost the formation of hyposulphite from sulphide through atmospheric agency , contained , as was to be expected , large proportions of the former , while the latter had entirely disappeared in three out of the four portions of very finely pulverised residue .
In the , fourth , however , eyen after its free exposure to air for forty-eight hours , there still remained nearly 3 per cent. of sulphide .
Now , as in no single instance in the entire series of our experiments did any accidental cumstances occur which even distantly approached the special conditions favourable to the oxidation of the sulphide which were introduced into hese particular experiments , we consider ourselves justified in arriving at the conclusion that the total absence of sulphide in the residues furnished by the fine grain powder in experiments 40 , 42 , and 47 was not due to accident in the manipulations , and that in those residues in our series of analyses which were found to contain large quantities of hyposulphite ( as in six out of the nineteen experiments with pebble and R. L. G. powder , and eight out of the nine with F. G. powdel ) great proportion , at any rate , of that hyposulphite existed in those particular residues before their removal from the explosion-vessel .
The circumstance that the residues furnished by our two most recent experiments ( with sporting powder and mining powder ) , in the treatment of which the possibility of accidental formation of hyposulphite was altogether guarded against , contained 4 , and about 6 , per cent. of hyposulphite , demonstrates that even under these conditions a very notable quantity of that substance is found in powder-residue ; but it cannot , we consider , be taken to support the view that , in a residue containing a much higher proportion of hyposulphite , the existence of the whole or a large part of that excess is ascribable to accident of manipulation .
In the series of experiments with pebble powder there were three , in that with R. L. G. powder four , while in that with F. G. powder there was one , of which the residues contained proportions closely similar to those furnished by the two experiments aboye quoted , there being no peculial.ity in those seven experiments nor any attendant circumstances which could be assigned as a possible reason why the pp.tions of hyposulphite in those cases should be so much lower than in the other experiments with the same powders , carried out under the same conditions .
We therefore cannot but conclude that the production of a small or of a large proportion of hyposulpbite ( whether as a primary or secondary product , but before the explosionvessel is opened ) is determined by some modification of the conditions attending the explosion itself .
From an examination of the proportions of potassium sulphate found the different parts of the two residues , it will be seen that in the case of the R. L. G. there was a CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
variation of only per cent. in the sulphate in different parts of the residue , and that in the top and bottom portions the amounts found in the unground and ground parts were almost identical , so that the proportion of sulphate was in no way affected by the prolonged exposure of the finely-ground residue to air .
In the pebble powder experiment the sulphate varied in the different parts to the extent of per cent. , and the higher proportions happened to exist in the ground parts of this residue ; but the differences can scarcely be considered sufficiently important to ascribe them to any other cause than a little variation in the composition of different parts of this residue .
Some of the later of our experiments with R. L. G. powder given in the first memoir furnished products which , when calculated upon the results of analysis made at the commencement of these researches , of a sample of the powder taken from the upper part of the contents of the barrel , presented greater discrepancies in points than was the case with some of the earlier .
It was , therefore , considered desirable to repeat the analysis of this powder , operating upon a sample taken from the lover part of the balrel .
The results of the two analyses are as follows:\mdash ; The foregoing.numbers , which are in each case the means of two concordant analyses , present sufficient differences to establish a small but decided variation in the composition of this powder , of which , be it remembered , very considerable quantities were employed in the course of the series of experiments .
It appeared to us , therefore , that we were warranted in calculating the earlier results obtained with this powder ( produced in 10 to 40 per cent. space ) upon the composition as represented by the first analysis , and in recalculating the later ones furnished by the lower of the contents of the barrel upon the analysis of the sample taken from that part of the powder .
In completing these researches it appeared to ns of interest to include two other descriptions of gunpowder in our series of experiments , one of them a representative of the sporting powder class , the other representing the higher ities of blast i mining powder , which are well known to differ very materially in lposition f CCCLXXX , the powders used for military purposes .
The composition of these two samples of which were obtained from Messrs. CURTIS and HARVEY , is given in the following tabular statement:\mdash ; It will be seen that the sporting powder did not differ very widely in composition from the several military powders of WalthaJn Abbey manufacture , while the mining powder presents very important differences from any of the other powders experimented with by us , as well as from those used by recent foreign experimenters , to which we have referred in our first memoir .
The proportion of saltpetre is about per cent. lower than in the military powders , while the proportions of charcoal and sulphur are each higher by about one-half .
The percentage composition of the charcoal contained in these two powders is giyen below , and a comparison of the numbers with those furnished by analysis of the charcoal from the several military powders shows that the sporting powder charcoal is intermediate between the R. F. G. and F. G. charcoal , and that the ming powder charcoal resembles that contained in the pebble powder .
Both these charcoals contained , however , a decidedly higher proportion of mineral constituents than the charcoal manufactured at Waltham Abbey .
PERCENTAGE composition of the charcoals contained in the several descriptions of gunpowder employed .
The results obtained by firing these two gunpowders in 30 per cent. space are included in the statements given in Tables I. and II .
* Phil. Trans. , 187.5 , Part I. , p. 72 .
See also Tables XII .
and XIII .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON IRED GUNPOWDER .
It will be remembered that a special method of collecting for analysis the solid products furnished by these powders was adopted , with the object of altogether guarding against the possibility of accidental conversion of sulphide into hyposulphite .
The analytical results show that the chief differences between the results of explosion of the sporting powder ( in 30 per cent. space ) and of the R. F. G. powder ( in 70 per cent. space ) consisted , as regards the gaseous products , in the slightly higher proportion of carbonic anhydride and in the very decidedly larger amount of marsh gas furnished by the fornler , and , as regards the solid products , in the higher proportion of sulphide and lower proportion of hyposulphite ; the quantities of these constituents of the residue are very similar to those found in the R. L. G. residue exploded in 80 per cent. space .
The gaseous and solid products of explosion of the mining powder differed very greatly , as was anticipated , from those furnished by all the other powders , as regards their proportions .
The carbonic oxide was double the highest amount furnished by any of the other powders , while the carbonic anhydride , which in the three series of experiments ranged from 45 to 53 per cent. of the total volume of the gases , amoumted only to 32 per cent. , the two gases existing in about equal proportions .
Marsh gas and hydrogen were present in unusually high proportions , and the sulphuretted hydrogen amounted to 7 per cent. , being nearly double the highest proportion found in all the other experiments .
The solid residue presented very interesting points of difference .
The potassium carbonate was , as might have been comparatively small in amount ( though some of the experiments with F. G. powder gave similar results in this respect ) , but there was only per cent. of sulphate formed , while the monosulphide amounted to per cent. of the solid residue , and the free sulphur to nearly 13 per cent. FEDEROW'S experiments are the only ones in which so high ( and indeed a somewhat higher ) percentage of sulphide is recorded , and among the several experiments with R. L. G. powder , in which only small proportions of sulphate were formed , there was only one residue in which the free sulphur was as in amount as that formed in the mining powder residue .
It will be seen that the hyposulphite amounted to nearly 6 per cent. : 2 per cent. more than was furnished by the sporting powder under precisely similar conditions of experiment , and double the smallest amount formed in any of the series of experiments , conducted without the very special precautions which were applied in dealing with the residue of the powder under discussion .
The ammonium sesquicarbonate was considerably higher in amount than in any other experiments ( though still much below the amounts found by KAROLYI and LINCK ) , and the potassium sulphocyanide amounted to 3 per cent. , or about five times the amount found in any other experiments excepting that of LINCK .
Lastly , there was a much more considerable amount of charcoal in this experiment than in any other .
It need scarcely be stated that the very distinctive difference between the composition of the solid and gaseous products of this powder , generally , such as would have been predicted from the comparatively small proportion borne by the oxidising agent to the oxidisable constituents in the mining powder .
It will be seen presently that the experiments with mining powder presented other features of great interest in addition to those elicited by the chemical examination of the products of explosion .
In concluding our observations on these , we should point out that fresh confirmation is afforded by this experiment of the fact insisted upon by us , namely , that hyposulphite must be classed among the invariable products of explosion of gunpowder in dosed spaces .
An examination of the three complete series of results obtained by the explosion of pebble , R. L. G. , and F. G. powders in closed spaces in which their gravimetric densities varied from to per cent. of the space , and which are given in detail in Tables I. and II .
, suggests the following observations additional to those included in our first memoir , on the nature and relations to each other of the solid products furnished by the several powders .
Comparin the highest , lowest , and mean proportions of the chief solid products furnished by the three powders , which differed but little in composition from each othel , the following points are observed:\mdash ; 1 .
tions of potassium furnished by R. L. G. and by P. powder are very similar , while the highest , lowest , and mean results furnished by F. G. are all decidedly lower than those from the other two powders .
2 .
The mean proportions of furnished by P. and R. L. G. are not far different , though the highest amount furnished by the former is considerably below , and the .
lowest number considerably above the corresponding numbers furnished by R. L. G. powder .
But the mean and the lowest proportions of sulphate furnished by F. G. is very considerably higher than the corresponding numbers obtained with the two other powders ( the highest amounts obtained with F. G. and R. L. G. being identical ) .
The generally greater extent to which the sulphur has undergone complete oxidation in the case of the F. G. powder is certainly not a result which can be in the least ascribable to accidental circumstances the experiments , and the fact it corresponds with the generally higher proportions of hyposulphite furnished by this powder affords additional support to the view which we maintain , that the production of the latter substance , in variable , and sometimes very considerable amounts from the powders experimented with , is not to be explained away by ascribing it to accident of manipulation .
3 .
It will be seen that , whereas the means of the amounts of hyposulphite obtained in the analyses of the residues from pebble and R. L. G. powders are almost identical , they amount to little more than half that of the mean numbers furnished by the *See at of papel See also Tables XII .
and XIII .
APTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
analyses of the F. G. residues .
But the highest result furnished by pebble powder is nearly equal to , and that furnished by R. L. G. powder is not far below the highest number obtained with F. G. powder .
4 .
As regards potassium monosulphide , the mean result in the case of pebble is very considerably higher than that furnished by R. L. G. powder , and more than four times the mean result given by F. G. powder .
It is noteworthy , too , as indicative of the great and apparently uncontrollable irregularity in the amount of this product formed by the explosion of powders of normal composition in closed spaces , that the proportions of sulphide produced from pebble powder at the pressures were very small , and similar to those formed from F. G. powder at low as well as high pressures ( except where none was found in the residues ) , and that in several instances very considerable quantities were formed from Pebble at densities ranging from 20 to 60 per cent. , some of them being indeed very much higher than that produced in the special experiment with powder , in which extra precautions were adopted to guard against oxidation of sulphide .
Then , in the case of R. L. G. powder , the proportions of sulphide fouud may be said to be intermediate between those produced from pebble and F. G. , the amounts from 2 to 10 per cent. ; and the higher and lower proportions are ately distributed the different residues obtained at low , high , and intermediate pressures .
In no instance , either with pebble or R. L. G. , was there a complete absence of sulphide , as in three instances , at the higher pressures , with F. G. powders .
We feel- bound to lay upon the fact that there were no accidents of manipulation to account for these remarkable differences in residues furnished by powders of practically the same composition .
5 .
One or two other points of interest present themselves in connexion with the potassium sulphate found in the residues from the three powders .
Both in the pebble and F. G. residues , those obtained at the lowest and the highest densities differed very decidedly from the remainder in regard to the sulphate present , while the proportions in the residues obtained at the densities intermediate between those two extremes present comparatively slight differences in the case of both these powders .
But the residues furnished by R. L. G. powder exhibit a very decided difference to the above ; the portions of sulphate in those produced at the four lowest pressures ( up to a density of 40 ) are high , and very similar in amount to those found in the majority of the F. G. powder-residues , while those in the residues produced at the six pressures are only from one-fourth to one-half in amount of the others , some being similar to , and others still lower than those formed in the pebble On comparing the proportions of hyposulphite and sulphide in these R. L. G. residues with the sulphate , it will be seen that they vary as much themselves in the residues where the proportion of sulphate is high as in those where it is small in amount .
That the amount of sulphate produced by the explosion of this particular powder , even under the same conditions as regards pressure , was liable to considerable variation , is demonstrated by comparing the results of special tion of the esidue obtained by its explosion in 40 per cent. space ( as given in Table III .
, page 215 ) with those in the general series ( Tables I. and II .
) furnished by the same powder , ffied in the same space .
In the one instance per cent. of sulphate were found , in the other it was barely half that amount .
With such variations occurring in the proportion of sulphate formed under like conditions of explosions , it can hardly be matter for surprise that variations of the same kind should occur in the proportions of sulphide and hyposulphite .
In fact , in the two parallel experiments now referred to , the amount of sulphide contained in the residue rich in sulphate was only about one-fifth that contained in the other residue , the proportion in being higher than any in the three series of analyses .
Be it observed , at the same time , that this high amount cannot be ascribed to the adoption of any special precautions to prevent accidental oxidation of sulphide in the special experiment in which it was found , as there were several residues in the series furnished by pebble powder ( of the same composition as the R. L. G. ) which contained proportions of sulphide not much lower than in this particular case .
Two other parallel experiments ( 39 and 96 ) with R. L. G. conducted in 60 per cent. space , exhibit , on the other hand , a remarkably close concordance in regard to the proportions of sulphate and hyposulphite ( the numbers being almost identical ) , though there was a decidedly higher proportion of sulphide in the one.than in the other , and a not unimportant difference in the proportions of the gaseous constituents .
With regard to the lesults of the special experiment with pebble powder ( p. 215 ) conducted in 40 per cent. space , and the parallel experiment in the series of pebble powder results , it will be seen that the amounts of sulphate formed in the two experiments were closely similar .
The proportions of sulphide and hyposulphite found in the residue of the special experiment correspond very well with the results obtained with this powder at the two lower and the next higher densities , which is not the case with the parallel ) eriment in the series ( No. 12 , 40 per cent and this may possibly indicate that , in the latter , there may have been an exceptionally considerable conversion of sulphide into hyposulphite during the removal of the residue from the explosion-vesse ] , it being borne in mind that marked differences in the behaviour and appearance of the residues ( even those resulting from the service powder ) were frequently noted at the time of collection .
Before leaving this part of our subject we may remark that we have placed in the appendix to this memoir a statement in which we have given for every analysis we have made , the results of the following rather laborious calculations , which have been made in the manner described in our first memoir .
* ( 1 ) amount of gaseous products calculated from the data furmshed by the analysis of the solid products .
( 2 ) The amount of solid products calculated from the data furnished by the analysis of the gaseous products .
*Phil .
Trans. , , Part I. , p. 90 .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON IRED GUNPOWDER .
( 3 ) A comparison between the weights of the elementary substances found in the products of combustion and the weights of the same elements found in the powder prior to ignition .
( 4 ) The weight of oxygen contained in the total quantity of hyposulphite found .
An examination of this statement will show how closely accordant the various analyses are as a whole ; but in estimating the degree of accuracy attained , the following points must carefully be borne in mind .
1 .
That in the very large quantity of powder used , slight variations in its composition ( as indeed have been found ) were sure to exist .
2 .
That we have adopted as one of the data of our calculations the average quantity of gas found to be produced by the explosion .
But , as we have elsewhere pointed out , our investigations seem to ve that exceedingly slight and inappreciable variations in the circumstances of explosion give rise to very notable changes in the products , and among others in the amount of gaseous products .
Any change in this direction would of course affect the accordance of analysis in which the abnormal decomition occurred .
A review of the comparison between the weight of oxygen originally in the powder , and the weight found in the products of explosion , appears to show that there is in the former , on the average , a very appreciable excess of oxygen .
Hence it may pretty fairly be concluded that a portion of the hyposulphite found is due to the oxidation of the monosulphide after removal from the explosion-vessel .
On the other hand , a reference to those analyses in which hyposulphite exists in proportion , shows that were we to assume the whole of the hyposulphite as formed after the removal of the products from the cylinders , there would exist a deficiency in oxygen much larger than the existing excess .
Hence we may equally fairly , from this line of argument , conclude that it is impossible to attribute to accidental causes the formation of the whole of the hyposulphite , and that a considerable proportion of it must be looked on either as a primary or secondary product .
We now pass to the question of the amount of heat generated by the combustion of gunpowder , and in so doing we may remark that we were fully cognisant of the inconveniences inseparable from the form of apparatus used by us for this purpose and described in our first memoir .
In fact , the errors likely to arise from its use were very exactly pointed out by ourselves , and we were quibe aware of the great advantages in regard to saving of time and labour , and to accuracy , that would result from the use of apparatus similar to that which we ] presently describe .
But the app.aratus , such as it was , was deliberately adopted , because at the time when these experiments were made we could not be sure that the decomposition experienced by gunpowder in its explosion when fired in considerable quantities and under tensions similar to those in the bores of guns was by any means the same as that occurring when it is fired in small quantities and under feeble tensions .
* Phil. Trans. 1875 , Part I. , p. 63 .
it .
, same In fact , one of the principal objects of our experiments was to mine this very poin , and we therefore considered it necessary , at all events in the first instance , to determine the heat generated when gunpowder is fired in considerable quantities and under high tensions .
To do this , vessels of eat strength , consequently of great weigh7 , and therefore not well suited for calorimetric observations , were necessary .
It will presently be seen , however , that the difference between the determinations made by us and those of the other experimenters alluded to by General MORIN and M. BERTHELOT are due , not to error in our determinations , but to essential and striking differences in the decomposition of different descriptions of powder .
The conclusion of the whole of our analyses ( of which a complete table is given at p. 207 of this memoir ) has shown that , with certain slight exceptions , to which we have elsewhere adverted , the products of combustion are not seriously affected either by differences in the quantity or the gravimetric density of the charge exploded .
It would appear indeed as if there were occasionally quite as great differences in the transformation which takes place between charges exploded as nearly as possible under the same circumstances and others exploded under widely different conditions .
We were therefore enabled in the experiments which we are about to describe to make use of the following apparatus , OBLE AND R. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
Two explosion-vessels , both of the general form shown in the nnexed figure , but weighing , one , .
( 1381 grms with a capacity of grms the other weighing .
( 3430 grms with a capacity of grms were prepared .
The specific heats of both these vessels were efully determined , and the amount of heat absorbed by the calorimeter for various changes of temperature was also carefully determined , and corresponding tables for convenient use formed .
Thermometers specially made for the purpose and capable of being read to F. were used in these experiments .
Full details of the determination of the specific heat of the vessels and of the absorption of the heat by the calorimeter are given in the appendix , pp. 264 to 267 .
To determine the heat generated , a charge of from 150 to 200 to grms. ) in the smaller cylinder , of 400 grms. in the larger cylinder , was carefully weighed and placed in the explosion-vessel .
The explosion-vessel was then immersed in the water of the calorimeter and the charge fired in the usual } , the attached thermometer read before the explosion , and afterwards continuously until the maximum temperature ( which was usually reached in about 2 minutes ) was attained .
In order to make our new calorimetric determinatio1ls complete as possible , and with the view of exhibiting the differences in the heat evolved due to changes in the composition of the powder , we have not only found separately the heat given off by the three pl.incipal powders described in our first memoir , but have added to these three other powders differing widely in their composition , viz. : English mining , CURTIS and HARVEY'S well-known powder No. 6 , and Spanish spherical .
The composition of all these powders has been already o. either the present or in our former memoir .
But for our present purpose it is convenient to place in juxtaposition the composition of these six powders .
TABLE IV.\mdash ; Exhibiting the differences in the composition of the powders experimented with which are described in this memoir .
0003 0065 The decomposition they experienced is exhibited in Tables I. and II .
of the present memoir .
* It is scarcely necessary to state that the correction for the Ttion of heat by the inlet and the eflect of cooling was in all casos made .
See als ) illld XTTT .
Al LXXX .
2 With the small explosion-vessel the results obtained ( experiments 146 to 166 ) were as follows , the numbers given below indicating the gramme units of heat evolved by the combustion of 1 gramme of each description of powder employed:\mdash ; of powder .
Mining With the larger explosion-vessel the results of experiments 171 to 179 and 181 to 192 gave Pebb .
From the whole of these experiments , and giving to the second series , as probably the more accurate , twice the weight of the first series , we arrive at the conclusion that the heat generated by the combustion of the powders as actually is as follows:\mdash ; 1 gramme of pebble powder generates gramme-units \ldquo ; \ldquo ; 1 , , , , C. and H. No. 6 , , , , , , 1 , , , , Spanish , , , , , , From an examination of the whole of the above results it is obvious : Firstly , that the heat generated by the combustion of gunpowder is subject to very wide variations , dependent upon the particular ' of the powder employed ( the Spanish *Both physical and chemical .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
powder , for example , generatesjust 50 per cent. more heat than the mining powder ) ; and , secondly , that the heat evolved by the same description of powder varies in different experiments to a greater extent than is to be accounted for by errors of observation .
And this was , indeed , to be expected , since the very considerable variations in the products of combustion , under the same circumstances , as disclosed by our analyses , could hardly be supposed to exist without some corresponding variation in the heat evolved .
Our views on this head are confirmed by the calorimetric determinations we have made in our researches on gun-cotton .
In these determinations , which have been carried on with precisely the same apparatus , we have found no appreciable difference in the heat evolved in the various experiments .
The deduction is that the discrepancies between the several observations in the case of gunpowder are due to differences in the metamorphoses , not to defects in the observations .
The units of heat liberated given above are those furnished by the powders as actually used ; but as these powders had different amounts of moisture in their composition , and as , in use , these amounts of moisture are found to vary considerably , giving rise , especially when the powders are used in guns , to very different pressures , and generating very different energies , we have considered it desirable to correct the above figures , and we place below those that would have had place had the powders , when fired , been perfectly free from moisture .
TABLE .\mdash ; Showing the heat , in gramme-units , generated by the combustion of 1 gramme of the undermentioned perfectly dry powders .
1 gramme pebble powder . . .
generates gramme-units .
W. A. R. L. G. powder , , .
, 1 , , W. A. F. G. powder , , C. and H. No. 6 powder , , , 1 , , minin powder . . .
, , Spanish pellet powder , , The data for computing the mean specific heats of the products of explosion of the six powders , as well as the results of the necessary calculations , are given in the annexed Table , No. CAPTAIN AND MR. .
A. ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
We have pointed out in our first memoir our reasons for considering fallacious a temperature of explosion deduced ( as has been done by some authors ) by dividing the nulnber of gramme umts of heat by the mean specific heat of the exploded powder at C. ; but for purposes of comparison , to exhibit the striking differences between the powders , as well as because we have not data at our disposal to enable us to deduce the actual temperature of explosion in the case of each of the six powders , we give below the temperature of each powder calculated upon the above hypothesis .
They are as follow:\mdash ; rature of explosion on above hypothesis of W. A. pebble powder . . . . .
W. A. R. L. G. , , . . . . .
3880 , , W. A. F. G. , , . . . . .
3897 , , C. and H. No. 6 , , . . . . .
4083 , , Mining , , 2896 , , Spanish pellet , , , , The volumes of the permanent ) generated by the explosion of each of the six powders are as follow:\mdash ; 1 gramme of W. A. pebble powder generated cubic centimetres \ldquo ; , C. and H. No. 6 , , , , , , , , mining , , , , \ldquo ; , , Spanish pellet , , , , The above volumes are all calculated for a telnperature of C. and a barometric pressure of 760 millims. of mercury .
If we correct , as before , the quantities of permanent gases formed for the amounts of moisture contained in the powders when experimented with , we shall have the values given in Table VII .
TABLE \mdash ; Giving the volumes of permanent gases generated by the explosion of 1 gramme of the undermentioned perfectly dry powders .
1 gramme W. A. pebble powder generates cubic centimetres .
1 , , C. and H. No. 6 , , , , mining , , , , , Spanish pellet , , , , * It is perhaps necessary to remind readers not familiar with the French metrical system that ] assertion that a gramme of powder generates 2783 cubic centimetres of ature It is of high importance to observe that the volume of the permanent gases generated is in every case in inverse ratio to the units of heat evolved .
, if Tables V. and VII .
be compared , and if from Table V. we arrange the powders in descending order of units of heat , we have the order exhibited in Table VIII .
; and if from Table VII .
we place the powders in ascending order of volumes of gas produced , we find that we have precisely the same arrangement .
TABLE VIII.\mdash ; Showing the arrangement of the six powders when placed either according to the amount of heat generated in a descending , or according to the quantity of gas evolved in an ascending , scale .
Mining powderanish owde .
The results given in tlus table are very striking .
If we take the two natures which commence and close the list , it will be observed that on the one hand the heat generated by the Spanish powder is about 50 per cent. higher than that generated by the mimng powder , and that on the other hand the quantity of permanent gases evolved by the powder is about 50 per cent. greater than that given off by the Spanish .
Thus it appears that the great inferiority of heat developed by the mining as compared with the Spanish powder is compensated , or at least approximately so , by the great superiority in volume of permanent gases produced .
A similar relation is observed in respect to the other powders , and it may indeed be noted that the products of the figures given in columns 2 and 3 in Table VIII .
do not differ greatly from a constant value ; thus pointing towards the conclusion that the pressures at any given density and the capacity for performing work of the various powders are not very materially different .
This fact has been entirely verified for the whole of the Waltham Abbey powders , and in a less degree for the three other powders also .
Thus at the points where the Spanish , , and CURTIS and HARVEy'S No. 6 powders have been compared with the standard curves determined from and pressure specified , is equivalent to the assertion that the permanent gases occupy times the space which the powder occupied in its unexploded state , the gravimetric density of the powder being assumed to be unity .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. P. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
Waltham Abbey powder , the agreement is very close ; the departure from the normal curve not in any case exceeding that obtained in particular experiments with the Waltham Abbey powders themselves .
With respect to the pressure given by mining powder , the peculiarities shown by this powder were so interesting that it appeared to us to determine its tension when fired under a high gravimetric density .
We accordingly fired ( experiment 230 ) 11,560 .
( grms. ) of this powder under a gravimetric density of unity .
The pressures developed by two very accordant observations was , when corrected , 44 tons on the square inch ( 6706 atmospheres ) .
The pressure obtained under similar circumstances from Waltham Abbey powder was 43 tons on the square inch ( 6554 atmospheres ) .
It will afterwards be seen that the capacity for performing work of the various descliptions of powder is also not very different , and this similarity of result is the more remarkable when it is remembered that with , at all events , three of the powders , there were striking differences both in their composition and in the decomposition that they experienced , and when , in consequence , material variations both in pressures at different densities and in potential energy might have been expected .
But returning to the great difference in heat evolved , for example , by the Spanish and mining powders , we think it is difficult to resist the conclusion that the small number of units of heat evolved by the latter is in great measure due to the quantity of heat that has been absorbed in placing the very much larger proportion of the products of combustion in the form of permanent gases .
This suggestion would , we think , also fully explain the fact alluded to in our first memoir , and to which we had been led purely by experiment , namely , " " that the variations observed by us in the decomposition of gunpowder do not , even when very considerable , materially affect either its tension or capacity for performing work The above facts and remarks would also show that a comparison between different gunpowders , or a comparison between gunpowder and othel explosive agents cannot , as has been proposed , be determined by a simple measurement of the corresponding units of heat they evolve .
Did such a law hold , the Spanish powder should have more than 50 per cent. advantage over the mining powder , but a a matter of fact , although not very widely different , the mining powder had the advantage both in respect to the tension served in a close vessel and to the energy developed in the bore of a gun .
As regards the temperature of explosion , we have little doubt , the results of the further experiments detailed in this paper , that the temperature named in our first memoir , viz. , 220 C. , is not far remoyed from the truth for the principal powders with which we were then experimenting . .
cit. , p. 88 .
DE IENEC , ' Comptes Rendus , ' tom .
lxxvii .
, p. 128 .
That temperature may not improbably be taken at the high of the temperature of explosion for the Spanish pellet , which , as conjectured by us , has been proved to have developed a higher temperature than any other powder with which we have experimented .
The complete fusion of the platinum with this powder , and with this alone , is thus shown not to be an isolated or accidental occurrence , but to depend on a real difference of temperature , and we are thus by two converging lines of reasoning brought to the conclusion that for pebble or R. L. G. powder the temperature of explosion may be taken as a little above the melting point of platinum , say about 2100o C. , while the temperature of explosion of a powder like the Spanish pellet may be taken as occasionally ranging up to 2200o C. The data at our disposal are not sufficient to enable us to determine the temperature of explosion of the English mining powder with the same accuracy , but it is probable that 2000o C. and 1800o C. may be assigned as the limits between which the true temperatule may be placed .
After our remarks on the slight differences or accidents which appear to give rise to not inconsiderable variations in the products of decomposition of gunpowder , it is hardly necessary to point out that such differences in decomposition are nearly sure to give rise to corresponding variations in the temperature of explosion , and that therefore this temperature , even in one and the same powder , cannot be supposed to be always identical .
The relation between the tension of the gases developed by the explosion of gun powder ( when it is expanded in the bore of a gum with production of work ) and the volume which these gases occupy is in our first memoirt expressed by the relation ( 30 ) where is the tension of the permanent gases corresponding to volume the specific heat of the permanent gases at constant pressure , the specific heat at constant volume , the ratio which the volume of the of explosion bears to the volume of the unexploded powder , the ratio between the weights of the non-gaseous and gaseous portions of the products of explosion , the specific heat of the non-gaseous products ; but in that memoir the values of the constants , and were calculated from a few of the analyses that were first made .
The completion of the whole of our analyses has enabled us to recalculate these three constants , and their * It is by no means improbable that owing to the larger proportion of carbon which assumes the higher state of oxidation as the pressure under which the explosion takes place is increased , the peratures at high tensions may be somewhat greater than those which occur when the powder is fired under low tensions .
Phil. Trans. , 1875 , Part I. , p. 129 .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
values , together with those of the other constants used in equation ( 30 ) , are given in Table IX .
With regard to the value of it is necessary to say a few words .
If the tensions given in Table XVII of our first memoir calculated from ( 30 ) be compared the tensions actually observed in the bores of guns given in the same table , or if a comparison be made between curves and in Plate 24 of the same memoir , it will be observed that for densities of the products of combustion of 4 and below , or , in other words , for expansions and higher , the teusions actually observed with R. L. G. powder are in all cases higher than those calculated from equation ( 30 ) .
This , of course , should not be , as those lasb tensions should in actual practice only be reached if there were no loss from windage , vent , or other causes , if there were perfect combustion of the charge , and if the charge were expanded in a gun perfectly impervious to heat .
We surmised as one of the causes of this difference that in our calculations we taken at its mean value , whereas we pointed out that as the specific heat of the nongaseous products must , according to our hypothesis , increase rapidly with the temperature , should for our purposes be taken at a considerably higher value .
As however the agreement between the observed and calculated tensions was exceedclose , as when the calculations were applied to guns , the " " factor of effect\ldquo ; alone would practically be altered , and as , finally , we had not sufficient data to enable us to correct this constant with any certainty , we did not feel justihed in attempting hypothetical corrections .
But since the date of the submission of our first memoir to the Royal Society , our knowledge of the action of large charges in the bores of guns has been greatly increased ; not only have charges seven or eight times as great as the lalgest of those then discussed been fired , but we have submitted to careful calculation , with a full knowledge of all the necessary data , the results of a vely large number of rounds fired from guns of all sizes , from the 100-ton gun down to the smallest gun in H.B.M. service .
In some of these guns also the charges were so arranged as to suffer a high degree of expan- sion , and we have thus accumulated data which have enabled us to deduce a corrected value of , and which gives pressures and energies more closely in accordance with whole of the experiments we have discussed .
* Phil. Trams .
, 1875 , Part I. , p. 129 .
Phil. Trans. , .
cit. , p. 131 .
The highest charge fired by the distinguished Italian artillerists who conducted the recent experiments with the 100-ton guns reached the great weight of 260 kilos .
( 573 lb. ) of FOSSANO powder\mdash ; a powder singularly well adapted for use in large guns .
The velocity given a projectile of 908 kilos .
was ( metres ) 1725.3 feet per second , and the energy of the shot at the muzzle reached the enormous amount of ( 12,800 metre tonnes ) 41,333 foot-tons .
Ths highest charge fired from the 80-ton gun has been ( kilos .
) 460 lb. prismatic powder .
This charge gavo to a projectilc of lb. muzzle velocity of ( 4956 metres ) 1626 feet per second and au energy of ( 9680 metre tonnes ) ] foot-tons .
The value of , that is , the pressure corresponding to a gravimetric density of unity , is taken at 6554 atmospheres tons per square inch , this value being the result of our corrected for perfectly dry powder .
rfABLE IX.\mdash ; Showing tlJe value of the constants in equation ( SO ) .
tons per square inch atmospheres .
From equation ( 30 ) , with the values of the constants giyen in Table IX .
, we have calculated the tensions for various gravimetric densities ranging from 1 to 05 , and have expressed these tensions in kilogrammes per square centimetre , in tons per inch , and in atmospheres .
We have placed in the same table , for of comparison , the pressures which would rule were the gases permitted to expand without production of work in a vessel impervious to heat , or , what amounts to the qame thing , the pressures that would have place were the charges exploded in a perfectly closed cylinder with the corresponding densities .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
TABLE X.\mdash ; Giving in terms of the density the tensions existing in the bores of guns calculated from equation ( 30 ) ; giving also the tensions if the gases are suffered to expand without production of work .
In both cases the powder is supposed to be perfectly dry .
We have .
that the theoretic work which a charge of gunpowder is capable of effecting in expanding to any volume is expressed by the equation ( 34 ) * We are indebted to Colonel ALONCLE and the Commandant HEDON , of the Marine Artillery of translators of our memoir , for pointing out that ] though we havo adopted as our standard atmosphere that used in France , viz. : a barometric pressure of .
mercury and a temperature of C. , coefficient we have used in converting tons per square inch into atmospheres is not exactly in cordttncc with our supposition .
In the present memoir this discrepancy corrccted .
Phil. Trans. , 1875 , Part I. , p. 132 .
And on account of its very great utility we give in Table XI .
the results of the calculations of f.or various values of up to and inclusive of , the powder used being supposed to be of the normal type and free from moisture , and the constants having the values given in Table IX .
The work is expressed in the table both in metre tonnes per kilogramme and foottons per pound of powder burned , and by use of a proper factor of effect is applicable also to powders differing very materially from those of Waltham Abbey manufacture\mdash ; for example , to mining or the Spanish powders .
But before entering upon these special cases we shall , as the principles embodied in this table have led to the greatly increased charges of recent guns and the consequent high velocities attained , give one or two illustrations of its application .
XI .
Giving for value of up to , the total work that dry gunpowder of the Waltham Abbey standard is capable of performing in the bore of a gun in metre tonnes per kilogramme , and foot-tons per lb. of powder burned .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
TABLE XI.\mdash ; continued .
Difference .
TABLE XI.\mdash ; continued .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR F. A. ABEL ON TABLE XI .
\mdash ; concluded .
109.133 113.937 139.944 141.647 144.788 Thus if we wished to know the maximum work of a givell charge fired in a gun with such capacity of bore that the charge suffered five expansions the motion of the projectile in the gun , the gravimetric density of the charge being unity , the table shows us that for every pound or kilogramme in the charge , an energy of foottons or 62,394 kilogrammetres will as a maximum be generated .
If the factor of effect for the powder be known , the above values multiplied by that factor will give the energy per pound or kilogramme that may be expected to be raised in the projectile .
But it rarely happens , especially with the very large charges used in the most recent guns , that gravimetric densities so high as unity are employed , and in such cases , from the total realisable energy must be deducted the energy which the powder would have generated had it expanded from a density of unity to that actually occupied by the charge .
Thus in the instance above given , if we suppose the charge instead of a gravimetric density of unity to have a gravimetric density of 8 , which corresponds to a volume of expansion of , we see from Table XI .
that from the foot-tons or 62,394 kilogrammetres above given there must be subtracted foot-tons , or kilogrammetres , leaving foot-tons or kilogrammetres as the maximum energy realisable under the given co1lditions per pound or per kilogramme of the charge .
As before , these values must be multiplied by the factor of effect to obtain the energy realisable in the projectile .
But to apply these principles to an actual case .
The factor of effect of a certain brand of pebble powder having been found in a powder-proof gun to be with that gun between82 and 84 , let us examine what are the energies likely to be realised with charges of and .
in an 8-inch gun , of 130 and .
in a 10-inch gun , and of .
in an 11-inch gun .
We have selected these instances both because the same powder was used in the experiments , and because they offer considerable variety with respect to the number of expansions and the gravimetric densities of the charges .
Taking first the 8-inch gun .
The number of expansions that the charges experienced in the bore of the gun and the original gravimetric densities of the charges were as follow:\mdash ; For a charge of 70 lb. , number of expansions , gravimetric density605 , , , Hence from Table XI .
the maximum energy realisable is For the .
charge , foot-tons foot-tons foot-tons per lb. \ldquo ; , , *This correction , as has been elsewhere pointed out by one of us , is only approximate .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
Multiplying these energies by the factors of effect obtained from the proof of the powder and by the number of pounds in the charge , we should expect the energy realised from the .
charge to lie between and foot-tons Compare now these results with the actual experiments .
On firing the above charges it was found that the 70 lb. gave to an 180 lb. shot a velocity of 1694 feet per second , corresponding to a total energy of 3637 foot-tons , the 90 lb. charge a velocity of 2027 feet per second , or a total energy of foot-tons , and the 100 lb. charge a velocity of 2182 feet per second , or an energy of 5940 foot-tons .
In the 10-inch gun the number of expansions and the gravimetric densities vere For the charge of 130 lb. , number of expansions , gravimetric density Hence , as before , the maximum energies realisable are found to be For the foot-tons per lb. and multiplying by the same factors of effect , the total energy realised would lie between and foot-tons for the former , and between and foot-tons for the latter charge .
The actual results obtained with the 10-inch gun were for the 130 lb. charge a velocity of 1605 feet per second and an energy of 7158 foot-tons ; for the 140 lb. charge a velocity of 1706 feet per second and an energy of 8092 foot-tons .
With the 235 lb. charge fired from the 11-inch gun the number of expansions was , the gravimetric density of the charge 770 , while the energy realised was found to be 13,066 foot-tons , or foot-tons per pound of powder used .
It will be noted that with the 8-inch gun ( it happens that this calibre is the same as that of the gun used for powder proof , although the charges employed with this last are from one-half to one-third of those we are now discussing ) the results realised are in each case very close to those predicted ; as a facror of effect gives calculated results all but coincident with the high limit above given , but it must not be expected that results so closely accordant can always be obtained .
Even when the same charges of the same powder and under precisely the same conditions are fired , conF ; iderable variations in energy sometimes have place .
In the 10-inch gun , and with the larger charges of 130 and 140 lb. , it will be observed that the realised energies are in both instances higher than the highest expected energy aboye given .
In other words , for this gun and these charges a factor of from to 86 should be used instead of the factor .
Again , with the 11-inch gun , when the still larger charge of 235 lb. was employed , it will be found from the figures above given that the factor of effect for this , powder , and charge is about89 .
Hence the factor of effect with the same powder has gradually increased from about 83 in the powder-proof gun , to 84 in the 8-inch gun , to 86 in the 10-inch , and to 89 in the 11-inch gun .
And generally we must point out that not only may the factors of effect differ very much with the powders employed , being in this respect dependent upon circumstances , such as the density of the powder , its size of grain , amount of moisture , chemical composition , nature of charcoal used , \amp ; c. , but they may also vary considerably even with same powder if the charges be not fired under precisely the same circumstances .
For example , especially with slow-burning powders , the weight of the shot fired exerts a very material influence upon the factor of effect , and the reason is obvious : the slower the shot moves at first the earlier in its passage up the bore is the charge entirely consumed and the higher is the energy realised .
The same effect , unless modified by other circumstances , is produced when the charge is increased with the same weight of projectile .
In this case the projectile has to traverse a greater length of bore before the same relief due to expansion is attained .
The higher pressures which consequently rule react upon the rate of combustion of the powder , and again a somewhat higher energy is obtained .
But increased effects , of course , correspond to an increased initial tension of the powder gases ; but , especially with the smaller guns , a very great difference in the realised energy may arise from other cauRes .
Thus , it having been found that with certain breechloading guns a superior effect was attained by substituting copper rings for lead coating , it was assumed that the cause of this superiority was due to the less friction of the copper rings in the passage of the shot up the bore .
But it occurred to one of us that the superior effect was in all probability not due to less friction , and the following experiments were made .
Three rounds were fired from a 12-centimetre B. L. gun with 7 lb. R. L. G. powder and the ordinary service lead-coated shot .
The energy realised per lb. of powder was foot-tons .
Three more rounds were fired with the lead considerably reduced , and so as barely to fill the grooves .
The mean energy realised per lb. was foot-tons , thus showing that no superior fact was thereby obtained .
Two rounds were then fired with shell fitted with copper rings .
The energy obtained was 82 foot-tons per lb. and the gain was real , but the chamber pressure ran up from a mean of 16 8 tons on the square inch to a mean of tons , thus showing that , at all events in great measure , the increased is caused not by the copper hands giving rise to less loss by friction , but to the fact that the increased difficulty of forcing the copper bands into the grooves permits the powder to become fully burned at an earlier point in the bore , and thus an increased effect from the powder is realised .
But to show the effect of a greater or less degree of retention of the shot in its CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
chamber in as clear a light as possible , the following experiments were made .
Four projectiles for a 12-centimetre B. L. gun were manufactured of precisely the same weight , and which differed from one another in the following respect only : that two of these were fitted with a rotating gas-check of such a form that a high pressure would be necessary to force the projectile into the bore ; the two others being fitted with gas- checks of a form such that a comparatively feeble pressure only would be requisite .
The copper surfaces in contact with the bore were the same in each case .
Two rounds , one with each form of gas-check , were then fired with a charge of .
of R. L. G. powder , every condition , except as noted , being precisely the same ; the velocities with the two forms were respectively 1609 feet per second and 1512 feet per second , giving rise to and foot-tons per lb. of powder .
The chamber pressures were respectively and ' tons per square inch .
Two further rounds were then fired with charges of .
R. L. G. , when velocities of 1644 and 1544 feet per second , or energies per lb. of and foot-tons were respectively obtained , the chamber pressures in this case bein and tons per square inch .
These experiments prove in the most complete manner that although there may be , and doubtless is , some difference in the amount of friction due to the employment of lead or copper as the driving or rotatin material , that difference is perfectly insignificant when compared to the alteration in energy due to the projectile being more or less retained in its initial position , and thus permitting the powder to be consumed earlier and in a more complete manner .
In cases where the projectile has been for a considerable distance from the charge , that is , when there is a considerable air space between the charge and the projectile , it has been found that the energy developed in the projectile is materially higher than that due to the expansion of the powder gases through the space traversed by the projectile , and the cause of this appears to us clear .
When the charge is ignited at one end of the bore and the ignited products have to travel , considerable distance before striking the projectile , these ignited products possess considerable energy , and a portion of this energy will be communicated to the projectile by direct impact .
With the great lengths of charges used in the larger guns of the present day , some action of this sort doubtless , under ordinary circumstances , frequently happens , thus giving rise to somewhat more energy in the projectile than that due to the expansion of the gases from their initial density in the powder chamber to their final density when the projectile reaches the muzzle of the gun .
* The figures given denote the pressures on the bottom of the chamber and the base of the projectile respectively .
The pressures are given as observed , but that on the base of the projectile reqmres an addition not generally made in actual practice .
As bearing upon the energy which is usually assigned to a projectile , we may remark that it is customary in correcting the measured to the muzzle velocity to assume that the loss due to the resistance of the air has accrued from the instant the shot quitted the muzzle .
But , especially with the charges and high-muzzle pressures now employed , we believe this rule should be greatly modified .
For a considerable distance from the muzzle of the gun ffie jectile v be moving in an atmosphere A considerable number of rounds have been fired from small guns with mining powder .
The particular powder of which the analysis is given in this memoir generated an energy differing but little from those obtained with R. L. G. under like conditions .
Another sample of mining powder , however , from the first sample in containing a higher proportion of saltpetre .
generated an energy higher than did any of the R. L. G. powders with which it was compared .
This last powder , we may remark , was that which gave the pressure of 44 tons on the square inch when fired in an absolutely close vessel with a gravimetric density of unity .
The Spanish spherical pellet powder generated rather less energy than did the mining powder , but in neither powder did the realised effect vary more from that generated by the normal service Waltham Abbey powders than do occasional ] of these last\mdash ; a sufficiently curious result , as we have already remarked , when the differences in the composition and the great differences in the decomposition of the various powders are taken into account .
The same remarks as to energy apply generally to the small-grained powders .
These , indeed , cannot be fired satisfactorily without special arrangements in very large charges , chiefly , among other reasons , from their tendency to cake under the pressure of the first ignited portion ; but smaller charges the tables in this memoir alike apply .
Of course , were similar weights of pebble , R. L. G. , and F. G. fired in the same gun , the gun being supposed to be of small calibre , the energy realised by the F. G. would be greater than that realised by R. L. G. , and still greater than that realised by pebble , on account of its much more rapid combustion .
The maximum pressures developed in the bore would correspond with the energies realised .
When the maximum chamber pressure as well as the energy developed by a given charge in a given gun are known , we are able from Table X. to fix very approximately the position of the shot in the bore when the combustion of the charge may practically be considered to be effected .
Thus , if with a given energy in the projectile it is found that the maximum chamber pressure is 3118 atmospheres tons on the square inch ) , we learn from Table X. that this tension corresponds to a density of the products of combustion ; and hence the charge may be supposed to be practically consumed when the projectile is in such a position in the bore that the products have this mean density .
Again , if the observed pressure was 2400 atmospheres ( tons per square inch ) , the same table shows us that , when this pressure is reached , the position of the projectile in the bore corresponds to a density of charge of 60 .
with a velocity higher than its own , and for some short distance it appears to us probable that its velocity may be receiving an appreciable increase .
As corroborative of onr views , we may note the great indications of pressure upon gas-checks on the projectiles after these last are released from the support of the bore .
Also the fact that when muzzle velocities calculated from data measured inside the bore were compared lvith those calcnlated from data measured outside , the latter were in all cases somewhat CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
It will be gathered from what hasjust been said that , with a little experience , if the factor of effect and maximum chamber pressure in any gun be known , the behaviour of the same powder in other guns , or in the same gun with other charges or weights of shot , can be anticipated .
It was the consideration of the results embodied in Tables X. and XI .
that allowed the high energies ( more than twice as great as those obtained from the same calibres a few years back ) to be predicted and realised ; to be realised , also , with less strain to the gun than when much smaller charges were fired , without attention being paid to the all-important point of the density of the products of explosion at the moment when such explosion may be considered to be completed .
It will readily be understood from our remarks upon ble XI .
that , to the artillerist , two descriptions of factors of effect are useful .
One of these factors is employed to give the ratio between the work actually realised in a given gun , and the maximum work attainable by the charge ( its grayimetric density being supposed to be unity ) .
The value of this factor shows whether or not the charge is economically employed .
The other factor is employed to denote the ratio between the work actually realised and the maximum work realisable by the charge , in expanding from the grayimetric density of the powder chamber to the mean density of the products of explosion , at the moment when the projectile leaves the muzzle of the gun .
With respect to the first class of ctors , it would obviously be difficult to lay down general rules .
The value of the factor depends mainly upon the gravimetric density of the charge , but we may remark that , in the most modern guns , even with the advantage they possess of great absolute length , the powder is very uneconomically burned .
With the very high rges and consequent small number of expansions , with the low grayimetric density also of the charge , the realised energy per pound of powder is necessarily much lower than was the case with the older guns .
The same , difficulty does not exist with regard to the second class of factors of effect .
With respect to these , it may be enough to state that , in the smaller guns with R. L. G. powder , the factors of effect vary with a mild brand of powder from to 76 ; with a specially violent lDrand , from 82 to 89 , the variations being chiefly dependent upon the principles we have already explained .
In 6-inch guns , firing pebble powder of the normal quality , the factors of effect vary from 75 to 82 ; and , as the calibres of the guns are increased , the factors of effect likewise gradually increase , until , in the 80 and 100-ton guns , factors of from to 96 have usually been reached .
In concluding tlus memoir we desire to remark that , although the agreement between the results of the long and laborious series of experiments and calculations which we now bring to a close have far exceeded the expectations we had formed when we commenced our task , it would yet be idle to suppose that many of our deductions , referring as they do to temperatures and tensions far above the range of ordinary research , will not require some subsequent correction .
But although certain minor points may , as we have said , require considerable rection , we have little doubt that the main theories upon which we insist\mdash ; confirmed , as they are , by experiments made or facts obtained under an almost infinite variety of circumstances\mdash ; must be accepted as very approximately correct .
It is satisfactory to find that the laws which rule the tensions and temperatures of gases under ordinary circumstances do not lose their physical significance , but are still approximately ] able at the high temperatures and pressures we have been considering .
At all events , whether we are right or wrong in taking this view , it appears to us certain that the rules and tables we have laid down , based on our analyses , experiments , and calculations , may for all practical purposes be accepted as correct , and may , bearing in mind the restrictions to which we have referred in this memoir , be applied to nearly every question of internal ballistics .
Memorandum the elementary substances found in the products of explosion , existing in the powder before combustion .
EXPERIMENT grms. pebble , density From analysis of solids \ldquo ; gas mean : Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. 56 .
45.820 58 .
44.359 45.090 Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. CAPTAIN AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
EXPERIMENT grms. pebble , density Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. From analysis of solids , gas .
mean . . .
, , Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT grms. pebble , density From analysis of solids , gas mean Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. 132.164 135.501 Remarks .
Oxygen in hyposulphite , EXPERIMENT grms. pebble , density From analysis of solids \ldquo ; gas mean , Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. 237 .
230 .
234 .
176.843 Oxygen in hyposulphite , grzns .
EXPERIMENT grms. pebble , density From analysis of solids , gas .
mean \ldquo ; Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON ] GUNPOWDER .
EXPERIMENT grms. pebble , density Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. From analysis of solids \ldquo ; gas mean . . .
Oxygen in hyposulphite , EXPERIMENT grms. pebble , density From analysis of solids , gas mean \ldquo ; Calculated solid Calculated gascous products .
products .
grms. grms. Elements Gaseous state .
Solid state owderDifference .
Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT 43 ( 76 ) .
grms. pebble , density From analysis of solids gas \ldquo ; mean Ca Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. xPERIMENT 7 grms. pebble , density From analysis of solids , , gas mean \ldquo ; Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products . .
grms. Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
EXPERIMENT grms. R. L. G. , density Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. From analysis of solids gas 39.154 mean . . .
, Remarks .
st analysis of powdel top of barrel .
Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT grms. R. L. G. , density Calculated solid Ca]culated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. From analysis of solids , , gas mean H. - .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
- .
39.397 - .
Oxygen in ulphite , EXPERIMENT grms. R. L. G. , density From analysis of solids gas , , mean / Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT grms. R. L. G. , density From analysis of solids , gas mean \ldquo ; Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. in grms. CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
EXPERIMENT grms. R. L. G. , density From analysis of solids gas , mean , , Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT grms. R. L. G. , density ) .
From analysis of solids , gas mean , , CaJculated solio7 Calculated gascous products .
products .
grms , 127199 Elements Gaseous state .
Solid state Oxygen in hyposulphite , 2 748 grms. EXPERIMENT grms. R. L. G. , density Calculated solid Calcnlated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. From analysis of solids gas \ldquo ; mean , , Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT 41.\mdash ; 344736 grms. R. L. G. , density Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. From analysis of solids 149.805 , gas mean , , Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. .
A. ABEL GUNPOWDER .
EXPERIMENT grms. R. L. G. , density From analysis of solids \ldquo ; gas mean , Ca Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT grms. R. L. G. , density From analysis of solids , , gas mean Calculated solid Calculated gaseo products .
products . .
grms. 194.534 253 .
189.953 Oxygen in ] grms. CAPTAI NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEi , oN ) GUNPOWD ] EXPERIMENT grms. F. G. , density From analysis of solids gas \ldquo ; mean , , Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT grms. F. G. , density From analysis of solids \ldquo ; gas mean , Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. 85.987 Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
EXPERIMENT grms. F. G. , density From analysis of solids gas , mean , , Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT grms. F. G. , density From analysis of solids , , gas mean , , Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. 170116 Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT grms. F. G. , density From analysis of solids gas , , mean , ements i .
Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT grms. F. G. , density From analysis of solids , , gas mean Calculated solid Calculated products .
products .
grms. grms. 172 .
122.979 124.099 Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. .
A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
EXPERIMENT grms. F. G. , density From analysis of solids \ldquo ; gas mean , Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. 144.547 Remarks .
Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT grms. F. G. , density From analysis of solids , , gas mean .
, Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. 229 .
164.595 erence .
Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
EXPERIMENT grms. F. G. , density From analysis of solids , gas mean \ldquo ; Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. 187974 257 .
187037 Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. XPEBIMENT grms. R. F. G. , density From analysis of solids , , gas mean , , Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. 143.148 Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms : CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
EXPERIMENT grms. Spanish , density From analysis of solids gas \ldquo ; mean , , Calculated solid Calculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT grms. CURTIS and HARVEY'S No. 6 , density From analysis of solids \ldquo ; gas mean , Calculated solid ( alculated gaseous products .
products .
grms. grms. Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. EXPERIMENT grms. mining powder , density From analysis of solids gas , , mean , , Calculated solid Calculated gaseons products .
products .
grms. grms. 152.569 153.145 Oxygen in hyposulphite , grms. ABSTRACT OF EXPERIMENTS .
In this abstract the following abbreviations are used : S , to represent the density of the products of explosion ; , the area of the piston of the crusher-gauge ; , the sectional area of the copper cylinder .
Experiment grms. E. L. G. ; this experiment is No. 89 repeated .
On openin cylinder appearances as usual\mdash ; colour of fracture , a dark bluish grey ; surface not smooth but wavy ; tears remained adhering to the side , and the usual sooty deposit observed .
A. .
Crush .
Pressure .
57 0833 0417 134 tons per square inch .
Experiment 121.\mdash ; Fired 5960 grms. R. L. G. in large cylinder .
Density On opening , appearances much as usual .
Fracture , slaty grey with yelowish portions .
Divided deposit into two portions , top and bottom .
Bottom decidedly more yellow than the top .
Divided again top and bottom portions into two parts , one bottled and sealed with as little exposure to the air as possible , the other ground and freely exposed to the air for 48 hours .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
The ground portion heated but slightly , the bottom portion showing this tendency in the highest degree , but the heating was on the whole very abnormally low .
During exposure the colour of the ground deposit became considerably lighter .
Experiment 122.\mdash ; Fired 5960 38621 pebble in large cylinder .
Density On opening the cylinder observed that the deposit was lighter in colour than in the case of the R. L. G. The fracture was also different , being lighter and having several isolated portions yellow or greenish yellow .
Divided , as in last experiment , the deposit into top and bottom , a portion of each being bottled with as little exposure as possible , and a portion of each being finely ground and exposed to the atmosphere for about 48 hours .
The botto1n part of the deposit was lighter and yellower than the top portion .
The top ground deposit began to heat when placed on the paper , the deposit on the apex and in the interior , where the greatest heat preyailed , changing rapidly to a light sulphury yellow with a of green .
It attained its greatest heat in about 10 minutes , and in about 15 minutes later was not hot to the hand .
The bottom ground portion exhibited the tendency to heat in a much higher degree than the top portion , commencing to heat immediately ; the colour of the residue darkening while an orange coloured deposit formed on ttJe surface .
During the exhibition of heat the gl.ound residue smoked considerably , the orange colour on the surface was doubtless due to this pour .
The smell was very peculiar , was quite perceptible , but was not the dominant odour .
The maximum temperature occurred at about 20 minutes after exposure , and mometer placed in the centre showed a temperature of over F. The temperature might have been somewhat higher , as the thermometer had to be withdrawn for fear of fracture .
The paper was burned through on which the deposit was placed .
After half an hour the deposit began to cool rapidly .
It is to be noticed that the heat appears to play an important part in the changes which take place , as it was observed that the residue at the base of he cone remained unchanged in appearance although more exposed to the action of the air than other portions .
It may also be noted that after the residue has gone through this heating process the physical characteristics are considerably changed .
When taken out of the exploding vessel the residue is always diflicult to pound in the moltar , being } ewhat unctuous or greasy to the touch , but after the development of the heating phase it becomes crisp and powdery .
of absorbed by Temperature of room Experiment 129 .
Temperature of calorimeter .
F. , Water poured into calorimeter .
After 1 minute , temperature Hence loss of heat F. in one minute .
Experiment 130 .
Temperature of calorimeter F. water . . .
\ldquo ; After 1 minute , temperature , , \ldquo ; , , Hence loss of heat F. in one minute .
Experiment 131 .
Temperature of calorimeter .
F. water \ldquo ; After 1 minute , temperature , , , , 70.95 , \ldquo ; , , Loss of heat F. in one minute .
Experiment 132 .
Temperature of calorimeter .
F. water . . .
, , After1minute , temperature , Loss of heat F. in one minute .
Experiment 133 .
Temperature of calorimeter F. 30,000 .
water .
Water poured into calorimeter .
After 1 minute , temperature . . . . .
\ldquo ; Loss of heat F. in one minute .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
Experiment 134 .
Temperature of calorimeter .
F. water \ldquo ; After 1 minute , temperature Loss of heat F. one minute .
Experiment 135 .
Temperature of calorimeter F. water .
After 1 minute , temperature \ldquo ; Hence loss of heat F. in one minute .
From the above and similar experiments the following table of los difference of temperature between water and original state of calorimet as argument ) was arranged .
Difference of temperature .
Loss of heat .
Loss of .
For 30,000 .
water 24 , , 0.96 , 1.57 26 , , 1.04 , , 1.70 , 28 , , . .
1.83 , , . .
1.90 , Experiments for the of the heats of the vessels used for determining the heat erated by explosion .
In all cases the vessel was boiled , and then kept for five minutes suspended in the escapin steam ; it was then transferred to the calorimeter containing 30,000 .
of distilled water .
Experiment 141.\mdash ; Weight of vessel , grms Temperature of air . . . . .
F. steam . . . . .
calorimeter before immersion of vessel . . . . .
calorimeter after thermometer be , , came stationary . . . . . .
Loss of heat in vessel 21 Gain of heat in water . . . . .
Hence specific heat of vessel Experiment 142.\mdash ; The same vessel .
Temperature of air . . . . . .
F. steam . . . . .
, , calorimeter before experiment , , after , , , , , Loss of heat in vessel Gain of heat in water . . . . .
Hence specific heat of vessel Experiment 143.\mdash ; The same vessel .
Temperature of air F. steam . . . . .
, , calorimeter before experiment after .
Loss of'heat in vessel\ldquo ; Gain of heat in water . . . . .
Hence heat of vessel Experiment 144.\mdash ; The same vessel .
Temperature of air .
F. steam . . . . .
, , calorimeter before experiment , after Loss of'heat in vessel ' Gain of heat in water . .
, , Hen ce specific heat of vessel Hence mean specific heat of vessel from four experiments , 1158 .
CAPTAIN NOBLE ANY ) MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
Experiment 167.\mdash ; Weight of vessel , .
( 3430 grms Temperature of air F. steam . . . . .
, , calorimeter before experiment , , after , ; Loss of heat in vessel .
21 , , Gain of heat in water , , Hence specific heat of vessel Experiment 168.\mdash ; The same vessel .
Temperature of air . . .
F. steam .
calorimeter before experiment , , after , , \ldquo ; Loss of heat in vessel , , Gain of heat in water . . . .
, , Hence specific heat of Experiment 169.\mdash ; The same vessel .
Temperature of air . . . . .
F. steam . . . . . .
calorimeter before experiment , , after , , \ldquo ; Loss of heat in vessel .
Gain of heat in water . . . . .
, , Hence specific heat of vessel Hence mean specific heat of vessel from three experiments tion of heat evolved by the vario A.\mdash ; SMALL explosion-vessel .
Weight of water , 30,000 . . . .
equivalent in water 30,0000 explosion-vessel , .
, , , , powder products . . . . .
, , , , Equivalent in water , of contents of calorimeter . . . . .
When 200 .
of powder used , the equiyalent in water of the contents of the calorimeter is . . . . . . . .
CAPTAIN AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
Experiment 146.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
CURTIS and HARVEY'S No. 6 .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , .
, , Hence difference . . . .
Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 147.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
Spanish .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , , \ldquo ; Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 148.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
R. L. G. Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , , Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat eyolved gramme-umts centigrade .
Experiment 149.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
pebble .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , , , , Hence difierence . . . .
Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 150.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
F. G. Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , Hence difference . . . .
, , Hence heat evolyed gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 153.\mdash ; With 200 .
pebble .
Failure ; the plug being spoiled by the explosion .
Experiment 154.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
F. G. Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , .
, , Hence difference . . . .
Hence heat evolved gramme-units CAPTAIN NOBL AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
Experiment 155.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
R. L. G. Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , .
, Hence difference . . . . .
, , Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 156.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
pebble .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , , Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat gramme-uuits centigrade .
Experiment 157.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
Spanish .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , , , Hence difference , , Hence heat evolved gramme-units ntigrade .
Experiment 158.\mdash ; Exploded 150 CURTIS and HARVEY'S No. 6 .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , , Hence difference . . . .
, , Hence heat gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 159.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
mining .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , \ldquo ; , , Hence difference . . .
, , Hence heat eyolved -units centigrade .
Experiment 160.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
R. L. G. of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , .
/ , Hence difference . . . . .
, , Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 161.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
pebble .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , Hence difference . . . . .
, , Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 162.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
mining .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , , Hence difference . . . .
, , Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 163.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
CURTIS and HARVEY'S No. 6 .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , \ldquo ; Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 164.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
F. G. Temperatule of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , Hence difference . . . .
, , Hence heat gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 165.\mdash ; Exploded 150 panish .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 166.\mdash ; Exploded 150 .
pebble .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , \ldquo ; Hence difference . . . .
Hence heat gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 151.\mdash ; Exploded 200 .
mining .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , .
Hence difference . . .
, , Hence heat evolved mits centigrade .
Experiment 152.\mdash ; Exploded 200 .
CURTIS and HARVEY'S No. 6 .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , Jfence difference . . . . .
Hence heat evolved gramme-umits centigrade .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
B. \mdash ; LARGE explosion-vessel .
Grs .
Weight of water , 25,000 . . . . . .
equivalent in water explosion-vessel , . .
, , , , powder products , 400 . . .
, , , , Equivalent in water , of contents of calorimeter . . . . . .
Experiment 171.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
pebble .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , , Hence difference . . . . .
, , Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 172.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
R. L. G. Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , .
, , , Hence erence . . . . .
, , Hence heat gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment \mdash ; Exploded .
R. L. G. Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , , Hence difference . . . . .
, , Hence heat gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 174.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
pebble .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , , , Hence difference . . .
, , Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 175 .
\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
pebble .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , \ldquo ; Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 176.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
R. L. G. Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , .
Hence difference . . . .
Hence heat gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 177.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
mining .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , Hence difference . . . .
, , Hence heat evolved gramme-umits centigrade .
Experiment 178.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
mining .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat gramme-umits centigrade .
Experiment 179.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
mining .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , \ldquo ; Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 181.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
Spanish .
Temperature of imeter before explosion F. after , , , Hence difference . . . . .
, , Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 182.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
Spanish .
emperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , \ldquo ; Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 183.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
special mining .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , Hence difference . . . . .
, , Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON FIRED GUNPOWDER .
Experiment 184 .
\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
Spanish .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , Hence difference . . . .
, , Hence heat mits centigrade .
Experiment 185.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
CURTIS and HARVEY'S No. 6 .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , Hence difference . .
, . .
1 Hence heat evolved -units centigrade .
Experiment 186 .
\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
CURTIS and HARVEY No. 6 .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , , Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 187.\mdash ; Exploded .
400 .
CURTIS and HARVEY'S No. 6 .
Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , , , , Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat evolved gramme-units centigrade .
Experiment 189.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
F. G. Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. fter , 71.26 , , \ldquo ; Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat gramme-units rade .
Experiment 191.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
F. G. Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , , Hence difference . . . . .
Hence heat evolved7221 gramme-units Experiment 192.\mdash ; Exploded 400 .
F. G. Temperature of calorimeter before explosion F. after , , Hence difference . . . . .
DCCCLXXX .
Hence heat -umits centigrade .
Experiment 193.\mdash ; Fired 5960 grms. mining powder in cylinder No. 6 , containing Temperature of gas F. C. Bar .
millims. Amount of gas cub. inches .
cub. inches .
cub. centims. at C. , and millims. cub. centims. at C. , and 760 millims. cub. centims. at C. , and 760 millims. times original volume .
Experiment 194.\mdash ; Fired 4650 grms. mining powder in cylinder containing 15,500 In letting the gas escape , found for the first time that the gas lighted , giving rise to an intensel .
suffocating smell of sulphurous acid , showing , as was indeed otherwise apparent , that sulphydric acid was present in large quantities .
Sealed up gases for examination .
Did not take out the deposit as usual , but after the gases had escaped , filled the cylinder , by displacement , with distilled water , entirely freed from air by long boiling .
On the water touching the deposit it decrepitated with considerable sharpness .
When the cylinder was full it was entirely sealed , and reopened after an interval of about 48 hours .
The solution was then decanted into bottles , freed from oxygen , and sealed for examination .
A. .
Crush .
Pressure .
30 0833 015 tons per square inch .
Experiment 195.\mdash ; Fired 5960 grms. CURTIS and HARVEY'S No. 6 , in cylinder No. 6 .
Temperature of gas F. C. Bar .
Amount of gas cub. inches .
cub. inches .
cub. centims. at , and C. cub. centims. at C. and 760 millims. cub. centims. at C. and 760 ] vols .
Experiment 196 .
\mdash ; Fired 4650 grms. CURTIS and HARVEY'S No. 6 , in cylinder containing 15,500 .
Took all the precautions described in experiment 194 ; observed gas issuing from vessel would not light . .
A. .
Crusher .
Pressures .
30 0833 tons per square inch .
CAPTAIN NOBLE AND LIR .
I A. ON Experiment 197.\mdash ; Fired 10,000 .
of mining in cylinder containing 15,500 .
of water .
A good deal of gas escaped past crusher-plug .
A. .
Crush .
Pressure .
700 0833 A tons per square inch .
; , Deposit approximately .
water .
Experiment 198.\mdash ; Fired 10,000 .
CIyRTIS and HARVEy'S No. 6 .
The greater proportion of the gases escaped , the gas getting between the steel barrel and the coil , by the screw of the crusher-plug , causing the coil to crush and indenting the steel and the coil in a very remarkable manner .
A. .
Crush .
Presstlre .
70 0833 0417 A tons per square inch .
19.11 Experiment 199.\mdash ; A series of experiments in guns of various calibres with mining powder .
Experiment 200.\mdash ; Fired cylinder hooped with B. R. iron No. 3 , and with a capacity of 11,000 .
water , with a charge of 8750 .
pebble , and 2250 .
F. G. , 11,000 in all .
Copper in crushel-plug crushed beforehand to 35 tons .
Head of crusher-plug broke off by the explosion , and gas escaped , taking , as nearly as could be guessed , from one to two seconds to escape .
Outside diameter of cylinder before firing after , , \ldquo ; Pressure developed over 39 tons , but not able , owing to the escape of the gases .
Experiment 201.\mdash ; Fired cylinder hooped with SIEMENS ' mild steel No. 2 , and with a capacity of 11,200 .
water , with a charge of 11,200 .
powder , consisting of 8750 .
pebble and 2450 .
F. G. Gas escaped with great rapidity past the firing colle , which was of course destl.oyed ; great difficulty found in extracting the crushel-piston , had been jammed by the compression of the chamber in which it was placed .
Its record was therefore valueless .
Experiment 202.\mdash ; Fired same cylinder with a charge of .
powder , of which S375 .
were pebble , the rest F. G. Crusher-plug blew out before charge fully fired .
Experiment 225.\mdash ; Fired 9000 .
pebble and 3000 .
F. G. in cylinder No. 2 , containing 12,680 .
water , less 670 .
occupied by internal crusher-gauge .
One internal clusher used ; gas escaped slowly .
A. .
Crush .
Pressure .
0833 usher tons per square inch .
Experiment 230.\mdash ; Fired in No. 2 cylinder ( SIEMENS ' ) , containing 12,680 11,360 .
mining powder , same as that tested in the inch B. L. gun on 4th September , 1878 .
The gas escaped through the insulated cone , almost at once .
It did not escape with any violence .
Pressures indicated as follow : \mdash ; A. .
Crush .
Pressure .
1 0417 A tons per square inch .
, doubtful ; piston , , [ being jammed .
Experiment 233.\mdash ; Fired 9000 .
pebble , and 4000 .
F. G. , total 13,000 grms in No. 2 SIEMENS ' cylinder , cubic contents 12,680 .
for two internal crusher-gauges ; total contents , 10,680 .
The pressure forced out the closing-plugs by shearing the threads . .
A. 0417 Acrusher , Crush .
Pressure .
tons per square inch .
, CAPTAIN NOBLE AND .
F. A. ABHiL ON FIRED GUNPOWDIBR .
( Added 9th March , 1880 .
) Since tlns memoir was submitted to the Society , we have been led , in consequence of a communication made to us by Dr. DEBUS , to modify considerably our views with regard to the formation of hyposulphite .
The experiments rendered necessary by Dr. DEBUS ' discovery are fully described and discussed in a note submitted to the Royal Society , as the facts there given have led us to the conclusion " " that although it would seem that in certain cases and under celtain exceptional circumstances potassium hyposulphite does exist as a secondary , it exists in no case as a primary product , and should not , therefore , be reckoned among the normal constituents of powder residues we have recalculated the whole of our analytical results , and we append two tables , Nos. XIT .
and XIII .
, giving for each experiment the products of ition calculated on the hypothesis that prior to removal from the explosion vessel the whole of the hyposulphite found was in the form of mono or polysulphides .
*Proc .
Roy .
Soc. , vol. xxx .
, p. S ; CAPTAIN AND MR. F. A. ABEL ON GUNPOWDER .

