" On the lreparation of Ethylamnine .
" By J. ALFRED WANKLYN , and I NEIL'1ST ' T. CIIHAPMAN .
Communicated by Dr. FRANKLAND .
Received June 8 , 1866 .
Iaving recently had occasion to prepare a considerable qulantity of ethylamnile , we have made the observation that this base may be obtained withi rmuch greater facility than is usually believed .
We digested together equial volrunes of iodide of ethyl , strong alcohol , iand aqueous anmmonlia .
The digestion was carried oii at a very moderate temperaturec , certainly not exceeding 80 ?
, but the tubes were constantly agitated .
In this manner the reaction is completed in about half an hour .
The mixed iodides tiius obtained were evaporated to exipel excess of ammonlia , introduced into a retort ; enough potash was added to neutralize I , of the io(line present , and the mixture was distilled into dlilute hydroclloric acid( .
The receiver was thei changed , the samen quantity of Iotash agaill added , and the products collected as before .
Then six times as much potash was added , and the products collected .
The remaini:lg two-tenths of the potash were added separately .
Portions of each of these fractions were converted into p)latinum salts , andi the amount of platinum was determinei d by ignition .
Eacl of the first four fir'.ctions corresponding to -t of the total bases obtained , gave more pIlatin:um than corresponds even to pure ethylalmine , and therefore contained ethylamine and am orno ia .
Only the last fraction , corresponding to -l , of the enltie bases , gave a lower Iercentage of platinum than corresl)ol(ls to ethylaminle , and tlerefore colltained the dialnd tri-bases .
Subjoined are the platilum determinations in this last fraction : I. 0-2133 grin .
gave 0-0830 Platinum II .
0-35 !
0 , , ) 0-1382 or , I. Platinum per clent .
38-91 1 .
, , , , , 38'5 Pt Cl. N C , II ; IIl ( C1 contains 39-37 per ceiit .
of Pt. l't Cl. N ( ( C , II .
, ) , 11 .
Cl contains 33542 , , Froml which it will be seen that even the last tenth of the bases did not contain much diand tri-bases .
The former a gave , as aforesaid , rather more platinum than ethylamine salt yields , and therefore contained ammonia .
In order to make out whether there was any diand tri-base along with the ethylamine il these former fractions , we took No. 3 ( corresponding to ' ; Y ) dm and made a platinum-fractionation as follows : No. 3 gave 40-62 and 40'13 per cent. of platinum .
No. 3 , after some pure chloride of ammonium had crystallized out ( the crystals were analyzed and proved to be quite pure chloride of ammonium ) , was converted into a platilum-salt , and that platinum-salt fractionated so as to leave the portion richest in the high bases .
This salt , which would be rich in the diand tri-bases if any had been present in No. 3 , gave this result:*7666 grm. gave '3090 grm. of platinum=Pt per cent. 400(3 .
From which it is manifest that diand tri-bases were absent .
From the foregoing we concluded that all the higher bases were concenltrated in the last fraction , but that ammonia passed over during the whole distillation .
The objection might therefore be made that mixtures of ammonia and diand tri-ethylamines would give the same numbers .
In or(ler to deprive this objection of its force we made the following experiments .
Iodide of ethyl , alcohol , and ammonia were digested as before , and the mixed iodides so obtained distilled from excess of potash , the vapour thus obtained absorbed by dilute sulphuric acid , care being taken that the acid was not in excess .
The fluid so obtained was rendered very slightly acid with the same acid , and then evaporated on the water-bath .
The sernisolid residue was treated with strong alcohol , and allowed to stand one night .
It was then filtered , the filtrate measured , and the amount of sulphuric acid determined in a measured portion .
Enough K II O was then added to the alcoholic liquid to liberate -sof the bases present .
The potash was added in solution in water .
The liquid was then distilled , the distillate being received in dilute hydrochloric acid .
A portion of this liquid was then evaporated to dryless and placed over sulphuric acid .
Its percentage of chlorine was then determined : ?
3826 of salt gave '6696 Ag Cl ; .
4329 per cent. 1C .
'Theory -13')5 .
From these numbers it is obvious that the subs:ance must have been pure ethylamine .
It could have contained no ammonia , or at most only minute traces , and therefore the above objection is completely disposed of : A portion of this pure hydrochlorate of ethylamine was then treated with aqueous ammonia il insufficient quanltity to combine with the wliole of the hydrochloric acid Ipesenlt .
We distilled this liquid inlto dilute hydr-ochloric acid , evaporated it to dryness , and determined the amount of chlorine present in the residue .
The result was:*4528 of salt gave 1 3155 AgC1 ; .
' .
59'94 per cent. C1 .
Chloride of ammonium would give 66'33 , , Chloride of ethylamine ... ... . .
43'55 , , From these numbers it appears that ammonia is capable of partially expelling ethylamine from its compounds , and thus we have an explanation of the apparent anomaly of the appearance of ammonia with the ethylamine in the above-described experiments .
It appears therefore that pure ethylamine may be readily obtained in the following manner .
Equal volumes of iodide of ethyl , strong alcohol and ammonia are to be digested together for about half an hour , at a temperature somewhat below that of boiling water , with continual shaking ; the product of this operation boiled to expel excess of ammonia , and then distilled from potash the distillate being received into dilute sulphuric acid , the ammonia separated by means of alcohol , and the alcoholic solution of the mixed sulphates treated with sufficient potash to liberate about 9of the bases present .
On distilling this mixture , pure ethylamine , accompanied with alcohol and water , are the sole products found in the distillate .

