The Verbal Process upon the Discovery of an Ancient Sepulchre , in the Village of Cocherel upon the River Eure in France .
IN the year 1685 .
the 11th .
day of Iuly ; Wee Olivier Estienne an Advocate in Parliament , subdelegated by Monseigneur de Marillac , Concellour of State in ordinary , having the conduct of the works that are making upon the River of Eure below the Village of Passy , Doe Certify to all present and to come , that upon the petition of Messire Robert , Prevost of Cocherel , Knight and Lord of the Manor of the upper and lower Cocherel , wee have this day come to the said town of Cocherel , having with us several Witnesses , and from thence to a piece of Land of the said Manor of upper Cocherel called les Hautberges , upon the top of a rising Ground exposed on all sides to the Sun , a little declining from South to West .
Where being come the said Lord of the Manor of Cocherel did remonstrate unto us , that having occasion for a considerable quantity of Free-Stone for the reedification of the gate or Sluice for boats of the Mills of Cocherel , and which hee is to repair by the King 's order , hee had for that purpose caused two great Sons , which appeared in this place above gound only as two Limits or Bounds , the one about a foot and the other about 8 or 9 Inches to be further uncovered , and they had been found to bee 6 foot heigh , and about a foot and a half thick ; marked in the figure of the Sepulchre A and B ; the breadth of the one marked A of three foot , and the other marked B of two foot and a half , set end ways by one another ; and they had further observed in making this discovery , that it was an Ancient Sepulchre , shut only on three sides , viz. at one end at the head by the two Stones already mentioned ; on the right side by a Stone placed edg-ways upon its thickness of about 14 Inches , and being above 5 foot and a half long , and about 3 foot broad , touching in a Right Angle the Stone marked B at the head ; and at the feet another Stone was set , it was marked D , of the same thickness of the precedent , and about 4 foot square ; all these Stones were cemented together with Mortar made of the Chalk or Marle taken out of the same hole , and mingled with little Stones or Gravel .
That in this Sepulchre were found the Bones of about twenty Bodies of Men , of the ordinary Stature , between 5 foot and a half , and 6 foot , except two Youths of about 15 or 16 years old ; all these bodies lay extended North and South , the arms along the Bodies , and the Heads all placed along the two Stones A. B. In the Right Angle there were two Bodies separated from two others by the Stone E , of about a foot thick , 4 foot broad , and 5 foot and a half long , that lay in the manner of a Tomb Stone upon the two Bodies underneath .
All these heads had very fair sound Teeth in them , and the Cranium and other Bones of the Head , were much stronger and thicker than those of ordinary Heads ; which argues them to have been of strong well constitution 'd men ; amongst them all there was not any Womans Head .
In proceeding still to examine the Sepulchre , we did observe , that at the same distance from the Superficies of the Earth , and from those Bodies thus buried , there was three little earthen pots , of about 4 Inches Diameter , and between 4 and 5 Inches high , of a black Earth as soft as Wax ; which could not be separated from the other Earth without breaking them , and the pieces being come into the open Air turned of a greyish Colour and grew hard : These Pots were full of Wood Coals and ~ , which were not much examined .
All these large Stones of the Sepulchre were rough , and had not been cut , but seemed to have been fetched from a Neighbouring Quarry , which is about 400 foot off , upon the same Hill .
We observed besides , that in the place where were laid the two Heads of the Bodies , that lay upon the Tomb-Stone E there were found two Stones : The one whereof was about 6 Inches long , and some 15 Lines broad in its broadest place , and about 4 Lines thick ; framed like the head of a Pike , very sharp and cutting at both ends and on the sides ; it was a yellow Flint , of which the best Fire-lock Stones are made , being almost as hard as an Agate .
The other Stone , which was likewise under one of these Heads , was shaped like the head of an Axe , about 4 Inches long , and 3 Inches broad , having a hole at the narrowest end , and about 6 Lines thick , very sharp and of a greenish Stone , spotted with white spots as hard as Agate : the French Lapidaries call it Pierre de Jade , or the Nephretich Stone .
Under the two Heads which were under the Tomb-Stone E , there were also found two other Stones ; the one much of the same Nature with that first described , but something longer , and the sharp end a little dulled .
The other was likewise in the shape of an Axe Head , very sharp and cutting , of about 3 Inches long and 2 and a half broad , and 6 Lines thick , with a hole in it at the narrow end : The Stone was of a dark green Colour , which the Lapidaries call , Oriental Serpentine .
On the left side of the Sepulchre which was open , there were sixteen Bodies in the same Situation as the first , placed North and South , their Heads along the great Stone A , and the Arms extended along the Bodies , the Bones all entire , though they appeared very ancient , and after two Days lying in the Air fell all to Dust .
All the Bones of these heads , as has been said before , were very thick , there was one that had been pierced by some blow , and Nature had repaired the Wound ; within , the hole was round as having been made by some sharp round Weapon , which argued likewise the wounded to have been a Soldier .
Under every one of these heads , there was a little Stone : Two were round , one of a reddish colour , of about an inch thick , having a hole at each end , which lessened and grew narrower towards the middle .
Another of a Chesnut colour and about the bigness of a Chesnut , made in the shape of a coat-button , with a hole clean through it , but roughly polished and hard , seeming on one side to have suffered by the fire .
There were likewise two other little Stones , which according to probability were under the Heads of the young Bodies ; whereof one was about two inches long and eight lines broad and two lines thick , pretty sharp at the broader end , and having a hole at the narrow end : it is thought to be of the same Pierre de Jade , green and white , but tis nothing near so hard as the first .
The other Stone was about 17 lines long , and 8 broad , two lines thick , somewhat sharp at the broad end , and having two holes at the narrow end , the one bigger than the other : tis thought to be of a white Marble or Alabaster .
There were moreover found under these Heads three Stones , whereof two were of a grey Pible , such as we find by the Sea side , shaped like Axes Heads , sharp and polished , about four or five inches long and four broad at the broadest end , about an inch and a half at the narrowest , and in the middle about an inch thick .
These Stones were by their narrow end to be put into a piece of Staggs Horn fitted to receive them , as appeared by several pieces found in this Sepulchre , which had an oval hollow at the end to receive one of these Stones , these pieces were about six inches long , and had a hole at the other end , by which they might be fastened to a longer stick .
The third Stone was of the shape of the precedent , but of a black Pible like a Flint , of which this Country is very full ; and it was besides remarked that the pieces of Staggs Horn were worn at the end , and polished upon some Stone , but not cut with Iron .
Under all the other Heads there were ten little Stones like black flint , one under each Head , cut all in the same shape , smooth on one side and sharp on the other ; tis thought they might use them as Knives .
There was likewise found in the same place under one of the Heads a Stone , which within was of black flint , having the outside of a white Substance , as that sort of Stone uses to be , this had two Eminences like Teeth , which we took to be Natural , and not Artificial .
All these Stones thus placed under their heads showed that they had them in great Esteem .
Amongst these dead Bodies has been also found some Bones sharpened , to put at the end of a Stick , or at the end of an Arrow ; one was of the smaller Bone of a Horses Leg , and the other was made of the sharp end of the Andouilleres of a Staggs Horn .
Amongst all these Stones there has been found no sort of Inscription , Sculpture or Character either in rilievo or otherwise , which might oblige us to think that these Men had any Knowledge of Christianity , but rather that they had some Idolatrous Superstition , as these Stones seemed to Indicate .
Wherefore we thought fit to declare to the said Lord of the Manor of Cocherel , that he might without Scruple use these Stones for what use he thought fit .
Since the Expedition of the present verbal process , there having been further digging on the left side of this Sepulcher , it has been discovered that the bottom of the Sepulcher was raised , and not so deep by a foot and a half as that part where the Bodies were buried .
And it is perceivable that in this place several Bodies have been burnt , whose Ashes and burnt Bones have been thrown confusedly into this hole : and it is observable that all along the Sepulcher , there is a vein of Coals and Ashes , which runs about two foot below the superficies of the Earth , and all these Ashes , and Bones are under this Bed of Coals and Ashes which are so salt and , ungent that they make one sneeze ; and when these Bones are handled they produce a tingling in ones fingers ends , as if one had handled the sharpest Salt-Peter .
There has not been time yet to finish entirely this discovery by digging into the Earth that has been put into this Sepulcher , which was digged on purpose in the Chalk to bury these Bodies , and likewise the Ashes and Bones of those others that were Burnt .
So that it seems difficult how to reconcile the two Cerimonies of Burying and Burning .
Except we should say that there has been a fight in this place between the Gaules and some barbarous Nation , who had Invaded them ; that the Gaules have bur n't their dead , and sacrificed to the manes of them their Prisoners taken in War , whom they buried with the Cerimonies proper to those Barbarians , the thickness of whose Sculls show that they went bare-headed ; and their Arms show that they had not the use either of Iron or Brass to make Arms of , but using such as Nature afforded first , as some Indian Nations do now .
There remains now to guess , by these Stones and what Antiquities we have left in History , who these Barbarians should be , and at what time this Sepulcher might be made .
The Sepulchres and Monuments of the Dead having been in all times held sacred , and it being looked upon as a piaculum to renoue or deface them : Mr. de Cocherel having discovered this but now described , thought it his duty to inquire into the Condition therof , as not being willing , without Legal Authority , to disturb the Bones of those there interred : This was the occasion of this Verbal Process , which for the Novelty of the thing , was thought fit to be Published in the form of Law , as it was communicated by Mr. Justell .
Reg. Soc. S. who has promised to procure , if possible , the Figures of the Arms of Stone souna in the said Sepulchre , which in some following Transaction shall be given .

