On the comparative Influence of Male and Female Parents on their Offspring .
By Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read June 22 , 1].809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 392 .
] During the very extensive series of Mr. Knight 's endeavours to improve the varieties of fruit-trees , he has also been occupied in making correspondent experiments on the breeding of animals , and has always paid attention to the strong analogy which universally subsists between plants and animals in most points relating to generation .
Although the author 's experiments have extended to many different species of fruit-trees , yet the greatest number , and those under the most favourable circumstances , were upon apple-trees .
But as the results were all in unison , the instances here adduced are from the apple alone .
Linmneus conceived the character of the male to predominate in the exterior both of plants and animals : but Mr. Knight 's observations have led him to form a different conclusion ; for he remarks , that seedling plants and the young of animals inherit much more of the character of the female .
Seeds from cultivated apple-trees , impregnated by the Siberian crab , produced larger fruit than those from the crab impregnated by stamina from the cultivated fruit ; but the quality and flavour of the fruit appeared to inherit , in a greater degree , the qualities of the male .
In consequence of the frequent intermixtures that have taken place in the breeding of domesticated animals , there is often little resemblance to either parent ; but it is observed , that the dimensions of the offspring are regulated principally by those of the female , and that a corresponding length of legs appears especially necessary for accompanying the parent in flight .
But unless the male parent be proportionally strong , the legs of the offspring may be too long in proportion to the strength which it will ultimately attain , and it may be ill adapted to the purposes of labour .
Mr. Knight remarks , that with respect to sex also , the influence of the female entirely predominates , as particular females will produce all their offspring of one sex , either male or female ; but by attending to the numerous offspring of a single bull , ram , or horse , he has never witnessed any considerable difference in the numbers of the two sexes .
The size and form of the eggs of oviparous animals being dependent wholly on the female , regulate of course the size of the offspring , and in this respect resemble the seeds of plants ; but their formation , nevertheless , appears to depend on different laws ; for the eggs of birds , fishes , and insects , attain their full size in total independence of the male ; but in seeds , on the contrary , the whole internal organization depends on the influence of the male .
For though a gourd may produce fruit , apparently perfect , without impregnation , and although even the seed-coats acquire their natural size and form , these coats are perfectly empty , without the slightest vestige of cotyledons or plumula , or anything that appears to correspond with the internal organization of a complete seed .

