]\gt ; 420 .
R. F. Gwyther .
On the D.ifferential [ May 4 , straight muscle by similar regions of the cortex of bhe same side as the mtlscle .
A point of \mdash ; and it is a suggestive one\mdash ; be .
tween the two cases appears to be that under relaxation of the rectus externus from cortical excitation ths globus may rotate beyond the middle line of the palpebral fissure , whereas under cortical relaxation of the rectus internus the eyeball may travel up to that middle line , but very rarely , if ever , espasses beyond it .
It thus seems clear that by experiment abundant support can be obtained for the supposition put ward by Charles Bell . .
" " On the Differential Covariants of Plane Curves , and the Operators employed in their Development.\ldquo ; By B. F. VYTHER , , Fielden Lecturer in Mathematics , Owens College , Manchester .
mmumcated by Professor HORAOE LAIIB , F.R.S. Received April 14 , 1893 .
Consider any point on a standard plane .
and write \amp ; c. , for !
, \amp ; c. , the differential coefficients beiug derived from the equation to the .
Let be the current coordinates of a point which moves so that , say , on a trajectory of the standard curve .
let a general homographic transformation aifect , and alike ; function which replaces will generally entirely change its character ; if , however , it retains the same form ( except that it is affected by a certain factor of which the form is to be found ) , I define it to be a diiferential covariant of the standard curve .
lt is obvious thab among the covariants will be found tangents and polar curves , and the ordinary covariant cur .
It is proposed to lVeSbigate the subject generally , and to find the relations of the iant with the contravariant curves .
S 1 .
For the purpose of obtaining the forms of the linear partial differcnti equations which express the conditions that a function should a covariant function , an infinitesimal ] is employed , expressed by the relations where , and are small , with identical relations for and The conditions found may be stated as follows .
1893 .
] Covariants .
of Plane Curves , Simple Conditions .
Call the algebraic degree of the equation in , and the algebraic degree of a coefficient in , . . . .
, , which we shall call of the coefficient .
In the same coefficient call the sum of the indices of differentiation the weight of the coefficient , and write it Write for the determinant of the phic substitution , , Then ( 1 ) the form of the multiplying facto ] is ( 2 ) , and only enter in the forms and , which will be written ; ( 3 ) The function is homogeneons in and the several differential coefficients of ; ( 4 ) The weight of the coefficient of each power of is uniform , i.e. , eacb coefficient is isobaric , and this weight , diminishrd by the index of the power of , is uniform hout the function ; Conditions in the form of Linear Partial Differential Equations .
The other equations of condition take the forms ( A ) ( B ) , ( C ) , where denotes summation for all values of which of from upwards , and SS denotes a similar summation , first with regard to , which introduoes of between and , and sccondly with regard to , which introduces values of from upwards .
422 Mr. B. F. Gwyther .
On the Differential These equations will be abbreviated to [ May 4 , .
( A ) . .
( B ) . .
( C ) .
S \mdash ; Interpretahon of the Conditions ( A ) , ( B ) , and ( C ) .
Write as a type of the terms in the covariant .
Then ( 1 ) becomes so that , in any set of terms homogeneous in and the coefficients may successively be derived from that of the term in by means of the And ( 2 ) becomes so that the coefficient of stlch term homogeneous of degree in and may be derived from the coefficients of the set of terms homogeneous of degree in ) and .
Also ( 3 ) becomes We thus have a second mode of derivation of character similar to the last , showing that the operators are not all independent .
The order of derivation is shown by chart where denotes deduction by the operator , ' , ' in which it is easy to trace the reJations 1893 .
] Coruriants of Plane Curves , From this it is clear that , the coefficient of the highest power of , satisfies the differential equation , and the whole expansion can be found if is On this account I call the source or matrix of the covariant , and investigate the solutions of It is next proved that and hence that , if is a homogeneous , isobaric fnnction of .
, such that , and that , then is equally a solution of If we know two soIutions of , solutions of all orders can then be educed by the process here implied .
on expansion becomes and therefore we have two solutions readily , The educts successive ] found by this method are , however , not generally irreducible , and it is shown how to find the in.educible for successive orders , which are written , \amp ; c. Any common of ) and is a differential riant , and not the matrix of a covariant .
For the second and fifth orders , the seventh and all orders igher than the seventh , there is a differential iant , and for the sixth there is a common } of and , which I write .
It is the matrix of a sh.aight line through , and all matrices may be expressed as lctions of , and diiferential invariants .
The order of the iant can be inforred from the mode in which and enter the matrix .
S 3 .
If the systems of coefficients are subjected to a reciprocal transmation , of which may be taken as the typical rolation , there is this reIation between the operators and \mdash ; if is a solution of either or in which , . . . .
, arguments , and if , in consequence of the substitution these qnalities of ilar functions of the correlative of coordinates ) , becomes , then is a solution of the corresponding equation , that is , of or Mr. B. F. Gwyther .
On the Differential [ May 4 , Or , brietly , we may say the result is the interchange of the operators , nd .
Regarded as functions of , \amp ; c. , the coefficieots in a contravariant are developed from a matrix satisfying , by the process which has been already described .
Regarded as a function of , \amp ; c. , they are ived from a matrix satisfying , by a process which differs from that previously described by the interchange of the operators and .
Any function of the coefficients in a covariant function which would be an invariant for a change of coordinates , but not for a homographic transformation , will be the matrix of contravariant function .
The matrix of the reciprocal is the discriminant of the highest group of homogeneous terms in and treated as a binary quantic .
S 4 .
To apply these resuIts to the cubic osculating the standard curve at the point , remove the origin temporarily to that point .
The coodibion of intersecting the standard curve in a number of points coincident with this temporary origin is an invariantal elation , and we may treat the coefficients in the equation as if they contained differential invariants only .
The form of the matrix of the cubic is with the condition where all the functions contain differential invariants only , and , retaining only invariantal coefficients , the expanded equation is and writing the differential invariants of the several orders , we have for the shape of the standard curve near the origin Substituting in the equation of the cubic , we find and where stands for If the cubic is non-singular this determines all the functions in the matrix , and gives the differential equation 1893 .
] of Cures .
The matrix of the equation to the to the from tho origin is and the condition that the cubic may be nodal or spidal is that this matrix , as a function of , may have a linear factor twice or thrice repeated .
In the case of the nodal cnbic , the differentia ] equation will be derived from U-y ' , and , putting ; a roob of and from this the equation is found .
In ths case of the cuspidal cubic , ) Then 16 and the differential equation is S 5 .
In this ion it is attempted to develop a geometrical method , on the covariant theory .
The general equation to a covariant line -es the form and depends upon the iant ratios .
: lf we take a second covariant line , the coordinates of point of rsection take the form , , Or , more shortly , , T.lll .
Covariants of Plane Curves , .
[ May 4 , and its position depends upon the invariant ratios .
Treating as determining the position of a point , and isposition of a line , the condition that may lie on ) Hence they form a correlative system of point and line coordinates .
I define as the invariantal coordinates of a point of homographic persistence , and as the invariantal coordinates of a line .
The condition that : ) may lie upon a covariant curve of the order will be an invariantal relation , Lomogeneous of the degree in , between and the invariants in coefficients of the equation to the curve ( we may say the invariantal coordinates ) of the curve .
If expresses this relation , it is in system of coordinates the equation to the curve ; I call it the intrinsic invariantal equation to the curve .
The coordinates of the tangent to the curve at ) are : : and is the equation to the polar : ) with respect to the curve .
Also iting x for and for , the tions between and are of the form of a homographic transformation , and therefore any function of , \amp ; c. , which is a invariant , is equal to the identical function of , \amp ; c. , affected by a factor of known form .
Hence , or as an ordinary algebraic equation , it will have the same homographic ities as the original covariant function , while the coefficients are the differential hich characterise the curve .
The trinsic invariant equation to the lating conic is , or and to the non-singular oscuIating cubic is terminate act , the equation to ] conic of the origin is and therefore T3 is the equation to the common chord of this conic and the osculating conic , and it touches the cubic at : , the tangential of the .
Also the second tangential of the origin lies on 1893 .
] Presents .
427 i.e. , on the common chord of the cubic and the conic of closest contact .
The third tangential of the origin has the coordinates , which are independent of .
AS is known , this is the of the eight consecutive points at the in on all the several cubics for which is arbitrary .
The line , on which the tangential of es , passes through , the sixth pomt in which the osculating conic meets the cubic The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thul.sday , lfay Presents , May 4 , 1893 .
Transactions .
de Sciint , izice . .
Anul I. Nos. 11\mdash ; 12 .
Anul II .
Nos. 1\mdash ; 2 .
The Society .
Dresden :Verein fur undc .
iiahrcsbericht .
XXIT .
Dresden lS92 ; Litteratur der Lands und Volks-kunde des reichs Sachscn .
Nachtrag 1 .
Svo .
1892 .
The Society .
Genoa :ustica di Scienze Naturali Geogrtfiche .
Atti .
Vol. II .
Vol. .
Num. 3\mdash ; 4 . .
Genot 1891-92 .
The Society .
Graz :turwissenschaftlicher Verein . .
Jahrgang 1891 . .
Graz 1892 .
The Haarlem : Teyler .
Archives .
Vol. .
Party I. Haarlenx 1893 .
The Museunl Hamburg:\mdash ; Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein .
Band XII .
Heft ] . .
Hamburg 1892-93 .
The iety .
Helsingfors :Societ de Geography . .
Nos. 1892 .
The bociety .
Innsbruck:\mdash ; Naturwissenschaftlich-medizinischerVerein .
Berichte .
JahrgallgXX .
Innsb.ruck 1893 .
The Society .
Kharkoff :Universit Imperiale .
Annals .
1893 .
Part 1 .
Kharkow 1893 .
The Kieff :Soci des Naturalistes .
Memoires .
[ Russian .
] XII . .
Kiew lS92 .
The Society .
La Plata :Museo .
Revista .
Tomo .
La Plafa 1892 .
The Museum .

