VI .
" Researches on the Impregnation of the Ovum in the Amphibia ; and on the Early Stages of Development of the Embryo .
' ( Third Series .
) From the MS .
papers of the late GEORGE NEWPORT , F.R.S. , F.L.S. &amp;c. Selected and arranged by GEORGE VINER ELLIS , Esq. , Professor of Anatomy in University College , London .
Communicated by Sir JOHN FORBES , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 6th , 1854 .
In this paper the author has given the result of further inquiries into the manner by which the frog 's egg is impregnated , and has supplied in addition some very interesting facts respecting the development of the embryo during the earlier stages of its growth .
In consequence of the difficulties that arose in the course of the inquiry , and of the doubts that might be suggested by others from the difficulty of manipulating with the egg of the Amphibia unless certain precautions are taken , the author first describes the apparatus used and the mode of proceeding he has employed ; and his results show that he has successfully surmounted the obstacles to microscopic investigation caused by the opacity , the great size , and the tendency to movement inherent in the egg .
The fact of the impregnation of the ovum through the entrance of the spermatozoon into the yelk by its own movement was communicated to the Royal Society in a preceding paper* , and the original experiments there referred to as serving to establish the fact , are now detailed .
In addition , the circumstances affecting the passage of the sperm-body through the thick investing envelopes are considered , and thence it is concluded , that " when there is any deficiency in the usual power , arising from an unhealthy condition of the fertilising body , or an increase in the resistance of the yelk membranes , the spermatozoon is unable to pass through the membranes into the yelk and the egg remains unfertilized .
" The two small rounded bodies that appear on the surface of the yelk in the interval or chamber between it and the investing membrane , have been traced from their origin , through their changes , till their disappearance after the equatorial division of the yelk .
The investigations as to the true import of these bodies have not been further carried out , in consequence of the untimely death of the author ; but his observations have induced him to put forth the following statement regarding them , viz. " that they are usually , and perhaps invariably , at that part of the yelk at which the head of the embryo is afterwards found .
" By following the changes in the segmenting yelk , evidence has been obtained of the derivation of different parts of the future being from definite segments of the yelk .
Thus it has been found , that the half of the yelk on one side of the second or crucial cleft begins its subdivisions sooner than the opposite , and that the trunk and tail of the embryo are derived from this first subdividing part , whilst the head is produced from the other half .
Having ascertained so much respecting the foundation of different parts of the embryo , the author next determined that the axis or spine will primarily lie in a line with the first cleft of the yelk , though it may afterwards deviate somewhat from that line during the growth of the embryo .
Lastly , it has been sought to discover what influence the artificial application of the spermatozoon to only one side of the egg would have upon the direction of the primary cleft of the yelk .
The result of this inquiry seems , very curiously , to be , that the first cleft of the yelk will lie , under the circumstances stated , in a line with the point of the egg that has been touched with the impregnating fluid .

