Experiments on the Elasticity and Strength of Hard and Soft Steel .
In a Letter to Thomas Young , M.D. For .
Sec. R.S. By Mr. Thomas Tredgold , Civil Engineer .
Read March 25 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 354 .
] The bars of steel used in these experiments were supported at the ends by two blocks of cast iron , resting upon a wooden frame , and a scale for weights was suspended from the middle of the length of the bar , by a cylindrical steel pin , three eighths of an inch in diameter .
To measure the flexure a quadrantal piece of mahogany was attached to the frame , with a vertical bar sliding in two guides at its edge , and moving an index .
The bar and index were so balanced , that one end of the bar bore with constant pressure upon the specimen , and the graduated arc was divided into inches , tenths , and hundredths .
The thousandths were measured by a vernier .
A bar of blistered steel of file hardness , 13 inches long between the supports , underwent no permanent alteration of form when loaded with lOlbs .
The temper of the bar was then successively lowered , and it was ultimately again hardened ; but in these different states its flexure and resistance to permanent change of form remained the same .
These experiments were repeated with bars of other dimensions , which were loaded till they broke ; and from them the author also infers that the elastic force of steel is not altered by temper , and that the force which produces permanent alteration is to that which causes fracture in hard steel , as 1 : 166 ; and in the same steel of traw yellow temper , as 1 : 2*56 .
From comparisons of the strain required to cause permanent alteration in different kinds of steel , the author concludes , that in the process of hardening , the particles are put into a state of tension among themselves , which lessens their power to resist extraneous force ; and the phenomena of hardening may be referred to the more rapid abstraction of heat from the surface of the metal than can be supplied from the internal parts , whence a contraction of the superficial parts round the expanded central ones , and a subsequent shrinking of the latter , by which the state of tension is produced .

