On the Reduction to a Vacuum of the Vibrations of an Invariable Pendulum .
By Captain Edward Sabine , of the Royal Artillery , Sec. R.S. Communicated by Dr. Thomas Young , Secretary of the late Board of Longitude .
Read March 12 and 19 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 207 .
] The experiments contained in this paper originated in a notice published by M. Bessel in the Astronomische lNachrichten , for S69 January 1828 , announcing that he had found the theory usually employed for reducing the vibrations of a pendulum in air to the corresponding vibrations in vacuo , was incorrect , inasmuch as it omitted the expenditure of a portion of the moving force on the particles of the air which are set in motion by the pendulum in its vibration .
In order to ascertain by the most direct mode of experiment the retardation which a pendulum experiences by vibrating in the medium of the atmosphere , the author constructed , at the expense of the late Board of Longitude , an apparatus in which an invariable pendulum cculd be vibrated alternately in air of the full atmospheric pressure , and in rarefied air approaching nearly to a vacuum .
The apparatus was set up and employed in a room assigned for that purpose in the Royal Observatory at G-reenwich : its description is given in this paper with reference to plates , and those processes are particularly dwelt upon which were ultimately successful in ensuring the immobility of the suspension of the pendulum , and in rendering the apparatus impermeable when the air was withdrawn from the interior .
The arrangements for observing the coincidences of the pendulum with a clock , and for ascertaining the exact pressure of the air , both in its ordinary and rarefied state , are minutely described .
When the air was either partially or wholly withdrawn , a correction was found to be required for the indications of the thermometer giving the temperature of the pendulum , to compensate the removal of the pressure of the atmosphere on the exterior of the ball and tube of the thermometer .
The value of this correction for different states of exhaustion was ascertained by placing the thermometer in pounded ice under the receiver of an air-pump , and noting the height of the mercury corresponding to different heights in the gauge .
The number of distinct experiments made with the above described apparatus is eleven ; of these , the six first were designed exclusively for the purpose of comparing the vibration in air of full pressure , and in rarefied air .
Each experiment consisted of three distinct series of vibrations made in succession , and occupying usually the greater part of two days : the first and third series were in air of full pressure , and the second series in rarefied air ; the mean of the results of the first and third series gave the vibration in the ordinary atmosphere , which was compared with the result of the intermediate series in rarefied air .
the comparison was thus rendered wholly independent of the daily rate of the clock , and in some measure also of its deviations from an uniform rate in intervals of less than 24 hours .
The 7th and 8th experiments had a double object : first , to compare the retardations of a pendulum in common air and in hydrogen gas , both under atmospheric pressure ; and secondly , to obtain the amount of retardation in both cases , by comparing the vibration in hydrogen gas under thirty inches pressure , with the vibration in the same gas in a highly rarefied state .
There are thus eight experiments on the retardation* occasioned by the ordinary atmosphere , and two on the retardation in hydrogen gas under atmospheric pressure ; the latter furnishing also the comparative influence of hydrogen gas and atmo spheric air .
The 9th , 10th , and 11th experiments were made to examine whether the vibration of the pendulum in air within the apparatus was the same as in the free air of the apartment ; this was accomplished by vibrating the pendulum alternately in free and in confined air , by removing and again replacing such parts of the apparatus as were necessary for that purpose .
It was found , by this means , that the confinement of the medium by the glasses produced no sensible effect on the time of vibration .
From the mean of the eight experiments on the retardation in common air , the author obtains 10-36 vibrations per diem , as the reduction to a vacuum of the invariable pendulum , vibrating in air of 450 under a pressure of 30 inches of mercury : and by computing the retardation severally for the circumstances of each experiment , and comparing the computed and observed retardations , he shows , that were the amount of the reduction to a vacuum separately derived from each of the eight experiments , it would in no case differ more than 0-14 of a vibration per diem , from the conclusion derived from their mean , or one 74th part of the conclusion itself .
The reduction to a vacuum which would have been previously computed for the vibration in air of 450 , and 30 inches pressure , is 6*26 vibrations per diem .
The retardation in air of that temperature and density is therefore 41 vibrations greater than has been hitherto supposed ; and the proportion which the experimental reduction bears to that which is now shown to have been erroneous , is , for the invariable pendulum of the ordinary form used in this country , as 1 655 to 1 .
From the experiments in hydrogen gas , under a pressure respectively of 30 inches , and of less than one inch , the retardation of a pendulum vibrating in hydrogen gas of 40 ?
under a barometric pressure of 30 inches , is two vibrations per diem .
The hydrogen gas employed was obtained by the action of zinc upon dilute sulphuric acid , and was passed into the apparatus through a cylinder containing muriate of lime .
A portion withdrawn after the experiments were concluded , was examined by Mr. Faraday , and found to contain no appreciable mixture of air .
The two experiments on the comparative retardation in air and in hydrogen gas give the ratio as 10-55 to 2 , and as 10-41 to 2 ; or , generally , as 54 to 1 .
But the ratio of the respective densities of atmospheric air and hydrogen gas is about as 13 to 1 .
Whence the author takes occasion to remark , that if the resistance of the elastic fluids to bodies falling through them were simply as the respective densities of the fluids , the retardation occasioned by air should be 13 times as great as that occasioned by hydrogen gas , that the difference of this ratio from that shown by experiment is much too great to be ascribed to error of experiment , particularly as repetition produced results almost identical ; that it may rather be regarded as indicating an inherent property in the elastic fluids ana .
logous to that of viscidity in liquids , and of resistance to the motions of bodies passing through them independently of their density ; and that as an example , hydrogen gas , compared with atmospheric air , appears to possess this property in a proportion more than double that which would be given by the respective densities of air and hydrogen gas .
The paper concludes with an investigation of the effect which the near reduction to a vacuum will have on the variations of gravity at different parts of the earth 's surface , which have been obtained with invariable pendulums ; and particularly of the experiments of the author himself , which embrace a greater range and variety of temperature than those of any other experimentalist .
It is shown that in consequence of the peculiar mode in which those experiments were reduced to a mean term of comparison , their re-calculation with the more correct elements now known , would have no other effect than that of adding an equal amount to the vibrations of the experimental pendulum at every station , leaving the acceleration at different stations unaltered .

