I. " ; Onl the Electric Conducting Power of Alloys .
" By A. MkIATTHIESSEN , Pii .
D. Comnmuniicated by Prof. WHEATSTONE .
Rueceived November 17 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) In .
this paper I have given the determinations of the electric conducting power of upwards of 200 alloys , and have found that the netals employed may be divided into two classes , viz. A. Those metals which , when alloyed with each other , conduct electricity in the ratio of their relative volumes .
B. Those metals which , when alloyed with one of class A , or with each other , do not conduct electricity in the ratio of their relative volumnes , but always less .
The alloys may be divided into three groups ; viz.1 .
Those made of the metals of class A with each other .
2 .
Those made of the metals of class A with those of class B. 3 .
Those made of the metals of class B with each other .
From the experiments described in .
the paper I have tried to deduce the niature of alloys , and have arrived at the following conclusions : A. That most alloys are only a solution of one metal in .
the other ; for , 1 .
On looking at the curves belonging to the different groups , we see that each group of alloyshas a curve of a distinct and separate form .
Thus for the first we have nearly straight lines ; for the second , the conducting power decreases always rapidly oln the side of the metal belonging to class B , and then turning , goes almost in a straight line to the netal beloniging to class A ; for the third group we finld a rapid decrement on both sides of the curve .
and the turning-points unite(l bl ) alniosi .
a strai-ht line .
2 .
On examining that part of the curve whiere the rapid decremneint takes place , we find that with the lead and tin alloys it generally requires twice as many volumes of the former as of the latter to reduce a metal of class B to a certain conducting power .
3 .
That the turning-poilnts of these curves are not chemical combinations we may assume from the fact that they only contain very small per-centages of the one metal .
4 .
That the alloys at the turning-points have their calculated specific gravities .
5 .
From the similarity of the curves of the coniducting power of alloys , where we may assume we have only a solution of one metal in the other , we may always draw approximatively the curve of the alloys of any two metals if we know to which class they belong .
B. That some alloys are chemical combinations ; for1 .
At the turning-points of the curve we generally find contraction or expansion .
2 .
We have no regular form of curve , so that we cannot a priori approximatively draw it .
3 .
At the turning-points of the curve , the alloy retains large percentages of each metal .
4 .
The appearance ( crystalline form , &amp;c. ) of the alloys at these points is differetnt from each other .
C. That some alloys are only mechanical mixtures ; for example , bismuth-zinc , lead-zinc , some silver-copper alloys , &amp;c. The question now arises , To what is the rapid decrement of the conducting power of the metals belonging to class B , when alloyed with other metals , due ?
The only answer I can at present give to this questions is , that most of their other physical properties are altered in a like manner ; for where we find no marked change in most of the physical properties , as in group I , and in the secolnd group on the one side of the curve , then we have niearly their calculated conducting , powers .
In the Appendix I have given some determinations of the collducting power of pure gold , which I find has a hligher value than that generally quoted .
In conclusioni , I may take this opportuLnity of thaniking Dr. MI .
Ilolzmiaiiii for the excellent mann-lerin which he has carried out the greater part of the experimeents

