On the anomalous Magnetic Action of Hot Iron between the White and Blood-red Heat .
By Peter Barlow , Esq. of the Royal Military Academy .
Communicated by Major Thomas Colby , of the Royal Engineers , F.R.S. Read January 24 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 117 .
] Finding the attractive power of soft malleable iron and steel for a magnet greater than that of cast-iron and hard steel , the author was desirous of ascertaining the effect of heating these bodies in a furnace , so as to render them perfectly soft , upon their magnetic power .
With this view the bars were rendered white-hot , and being placed in the direction of the dip , their powers were found nearly equal .
It was however found that there was a point between the white heat , at which all magnetic action was lost , and the blood-red heat , at which it was strongest , at which the iron attracted the needle the contrary way to which it did when cold ; viz. if the bar and compass were so placed that the north end of the needle was drawn to it when cold , the south end was attracted during the interval abovementioned .
The author then proceeds to detail some further experiments in illustration of this anomalous magnetic action , from which it appears that the quantity of magnetic attraction at a red heat is influenced by the height or depth of the centre of the bar from the compass ; and as the natural effect of the cold iron was changed by placing the compass below the centre of the bar , it became a question how far the negative attraction was also changed .
To decide , the compass was lowered to within six inches of the bottom of the bar , when the cold iron produced a deviation of 210 , by attracting the south end of the needle .
At a white heat its power ceased ; but as this subsided to bright red the negative attraction amounted to 10 ?
, the north end of the needle being attracted to the iron ; it then gradually returned to due north , and ultimately to 70ยง 30 ' on the opposite side .
Mr. Barlow then gives the results of another series of experiments made with the bars inclined in the direction of the dipping-needle , showing that where the negative attraction was greatest the natural attraction was least , that is , opposite the middle of the bar , or in the place of no attraction .
Being doubtful how far the heat itself , independent of the iron , might be the cause of the anomalous action above described , the author substituted a heated copper bar for that of iron , but it produced no motion in the needle .
He thinks it probable that the anomalies may depend upon the iron cooling faster towards its extremities than towards its centre , one part of the bar thus becoming magnetic before the other , and choosing a different species of attraction .

