OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Hugo von Mohl , born April 8 , 1805 , was the fourth of five brothers , all of whom were men of note , either for public services or intellectual ability .
His father was some time Minister at Wurtemberg for Home Affairs and Worship , while his mother , a person of exceptional gifts , was the daughter of Autenrieth , Finance Minister in the same State .
Yon Mohl 's early education was obtained at the Gymnasium of his native town , Stuttgart .
In his nineteenth year ( 1823 ) he entered the University of Tubingen , where ( in 1828 ) he graduated in medicine .
In his inaugural dissertation ( alluded to below ) he clearly foreshadowed the course in science in which he was to preeminently excel .
It was his father 's wish that he should devote himself to surgery .
This , however , was distasteful to him ; and the intercourse into which he was thrown during the next few years with Yon Martius , Zuccarini , Steinheil , and other botanists , soon determined the direction of his pursuits .
In 1831 he contributed to the great work of Marti us on Palms a memoir on the structure of the stems of those plants .
In this year he was nominated first " adjunct " to the Botanic Garden of St. Petersburg , a post which , however , he did not accept , owing to his being appointed Professor of Physiology at Bern , whither he went in 1832 .
After the death of Schiibler he returned , in 1835 , to Tubingen as Professor of Botany in the University ; and here he remained , notwithstanding many brilliant proposals tempting him elsewhere , till the time of his death .
The interests of the University of Tubingen were matters about which he felt a keen solicitude , and the foundation of a Faculty of Natural Science in that University was essentially his work .
In 1843 the Order of the Crown of " Wurtemberg was conferred on him and he was ennobled .
About this time he was obliged to make a prolonged stay in South Tyrol on account of delicate health .
He recovered ; but although a man of great stature and robust build , he appears , after he had accomplished his sixtieth year , to have fallen into chronic ill health .
He suffered from pleurisy and attacks of diarrhoea .
Eventually he became very reserved in manner and subject to giddiness .
On the morning of Easter Monday , April 1 , 1872 , having been cheerful and well the night before , he was found dead in bed .
These particulars are derived from the memoir which appeared in the ' Botanische Zeitung ' for 1872 .
Yon Mohl was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society , March 26 , 1868 .
In describing fully Yon Mohl 's scientific career and position , it would be necessary to write the history of vegetable histology .
His work is practically coincident with the application of the higher powers of the microscope to the investigation of vegetable tissue .
Confining himself almost exclusively to the higher classes of plants , from the group of Mus^\#187 ; cineae upwards ( and neglecting the Algae , Fungi , and Lichens ) , there is hardly a point of any consequence in which some research or investigation von .
xxm .
a of Yon MoH'8 is not the solid foundation of our present knowledge .
The Catalogue of Scientific Papers of the Eoyal Society enumerates 78 of his papers\#151 ; not including various dissertations , some of which , along with a selection of the more important of his papers , were in 1845 collected and published in a quarto volume , under the title of " Yermischte Schriften .
" The list of his publications which accompanies the memoir in the \#171 ; Botanische Zeitung ' gives the titles of no less than 90 .
Nor were his own labours the only way in which he contributed to the advancement of our knowledge of the minute anatomy of plants .
In 1843 he commenced , in conjunction with Schlechtendal , the 'Botanische Zeitung , ' a small quarto weekly periodical of eight pages , occasionally illustrated with plates , which he continued to edit till the time of his death .
The volumes of this journal chronicle , year by year , the gradual development of the microscopic study of plants , a field in which ( doubtless in no small degree owing to the example of Yon Mohl ) German science has reaped a more abundant harvest than that of other nations .
No one can fail to be struck with the thorough character of Yon Mohl 's scientific work .
His energies were always ready to turn themselves to any part of his subject where facts seemed to need investigation , or the results of others to challenge reexamination or criticism .
His papers are , in their way , models of " contributions to knowledge .
" Except when they are controversial , they always commence with a careful history and estimate of the work of previous investigators of the particular subject under consideration .
Yon Mohl 's first publication in 1827 was a prize thesis on the structure of climbing plants , in which he endeavoured to show that the stems have a dull kind of irritability , so that they bend towards any object which they touch .
This explanation has given place to a better knowledge of the phenomena ; but Mr. Darwin , to whom that service to science is largely due , bears witness to the prima facie probability of Yon Mohl 's view ( Joum .
Linn. Soc. , Bot. vol. ix .
p. 10 ) .
His inaugural dissertation in 1828 ( already alluded to ) gave the first account of the true structure of the dots or " pores " frequently met with in the walls of cells ( ' Ueber die Poren des Pflanzenzellgewebes ' ) .
He showed that they were thinner portions of the cell-membrane .
In 1831 Yon Mohl , as already mentioned , contributed to the 'Historia Naturalis Palmarum ' of Yon Martius an elaborate account in Latin of the structure of the stems and roots of palms , under the title " De Struc-tura Palmarum .
" This was republished in German in his ' Yermischte Schriften ' in 1845 , and was translated for the Bay Society in 1849 by Prof. Henfrey .
Yon Mohl gave the final blow to the theory of the internal growth of monocotyledonous stems first propounded by Desfontaines , and upon which De Candolle had founded the division of vascular plants into Exogens and Endogens .
In this memoir he appears to have ' first described the origin of ducts from rows of closed cells , a point which he further developed in the following year in a paper , " Ueber den Bau der porosen Gefasse .
iii In 1832 he also described the movements due to irritability in various species of JRobinia .
In a paper on Lenticels he disproved the theory of De Candolle that these structures were in any way dependent on the production of adventitious roots .
His memoir on the stems of Cycads appeared also this year .
In 1833 he worked out the anomalous structure of the stomata in the Proteaceae , which Robert Brown had regarded as imperforate and had described simply as " glandulae cutaneae .
" He contributed to the ' leones Plantarum Cryptogamicarum Brasilia ' of Von Martius a description of the anatomy of the stem of tree ferns .
Hitherto the course of their vascular bundles had been supposed to be very similar to that of Monocotyledons .
Yon Mohl was the first to explain the structure of the hollow fenestrated cylinder into which the bundles are combined , and subsequent observers have added little to his account .
In a memoir published in the ' Flora ' he described the development of the spores in various of the higher Cryptogams .
He gave the first accurate account of the development of the moss-capsule , pointed out the development of the spores in fours in one mother-cell , explained the development of the elaters of Jungermannise , and gave a correct account of those of In 1834 he published an elaborate paper on pollen , in which he detailed an immense number of observations .
It is true he fell into error in regarding the external coat as in some cases itself cellular .
On the other hand , he was able to correct Robert Brown , who , in describing the peculiar movements ( which have been called after him ) in the granules of the fovilla of pollen , attributed to the granules at the same time a change of form .
Yon Mohl also established the development of the pollen-grains in fours within each mother-cell , thus indicating an analogy with the development of spores in Cryptogams .
The publication by Yon Mohl in 1835 of his discovery of the multiplication of cells by division ( ' TJeber die Yermehrung der Pflanzenzellen durch Theilung ' ) in Oladophora glomerata has been the starting-point of all subsequent investigations into the development of the tissues and organs of plants .
It revealed , in fact , the precise mode by which vegetative growth is accomplished .
Mirbel , in his memoir on the development of Marchantia , communicated to the Academy des Sciences in 1831 and 1832 , but not published till 1836 , had described the formation of pollen-grains by the quadripartite division of a mother-cell .
This , however , though an extremely important observation , is not a case of growth , properly speaking , and does not affect Mohl 's historical position in the matter .
In 1838 Schleiden announced the multiplication of cells by the formation of new cells in their interior as a general law in the vegetable kingdom .
He was supported by Nageli .
The views of Yon Mohl , developed as they were by Meyen and Unger , eventually established themselves .
In a paper on the structure of cork and bark , Yon Mohl described the nature of the tissues which enter into their composition , and accounted for the a 2 iv diversity of their character in different plants , especially the enfoliation of layers of bark in such trees as the Plane .
The following year ( 1836 ) Yon Mohl developed his theory of an intercellular substance in which the cells of tissues were held to be imbedded .
This supposed cement is now known to belong to the cell-walls themselves , and not to be a substance independent of them .
Mohl indeed , later in life , practically withdrew his views upon the matter ( ' Die vege-tabilische Zelle/ 1850 ) .
He also , in 1836 , gave an account of the singular caudex of Tamm ( Testudinaria ) elephant In 1837 Yon Mohl published the results of his investigations with regard to chlorophyl .
They still remain essentially undisturbed .
He showed that chlorophyl-granules were soft and homogeneous bodies , and not vesicular , as had been supposed ; he detected in them the presence of starch .
Nageli having asserted that chlorophyl-granules possess a cellulose investment , Yon Mohl returned to the subject in 1855 , and showed that this view was untenable .
During 1837 he also published a dissertation on the structure of vegetable membrane , in which he declared " secondary cell-membranes to possess a fibrous structure .
" The objective fact observed by Yon Mohl is one of very general truth , although a rather different set of considerations are now brought to its explanation .
His paper on the porous cells of Sphagnum finally put to rest the controversy as to their nature .
He contributed an examination of some abnormal cones to the difficult question of the floral morphology of Coniferse .
In his observations on the sporangium in the vascular Cryptogams he established the real nature of this structure in ferns .
In the case of Selaginella , Bischoff 's view , that the sporangium is an axillary bud , was abandoned by Hofmeister for the explanation given by Yon Mohl .
In 1838 he published the first account of the development of stomata , which he observed in Hyacinthus orientalis .
He also corrected the account which Mirbel had given of the origin of the stomata of His dissertation , * Ueber den Einfluss des Bodens auf die Yertheilung der Alpenpflanzen/ has served as a basis for the more extended investigations of Alphonse De Candolle on the same subject .
In 1839 he discussed the structure of annular vessels , contending against Schleiden that they were not a derivative form of spiral vessels .
In his * Die vegetabilische Zelle ' he maintained a similar view with regard to reticulated and other vessels .
He published some important observations on the development of the spores of In 1840 he described the peculiar phenomena of the growth of Isoetem ; and , as Hofmeister has remarked ( ' On the Higher Cryptogams/ p. 337 ) , " since Yon Mohl 's discoveries the special attention of botanists has been almost constantly directed to this interesting family .
" In 1842 he published remarks on the structure of dotted ducts .
In this he gave the first explanation of the structure of bordered pores .
In the corrected form given to it by Schacht ( 1859 ) this is probably the final account of the matter .
In the same year he published his investigations on the cuticle of plants , which he demonstrated to be organically derived from the epidermic cells .
He further supported this view in papers published in 1847 and 1849 .
Von Mohl 's researches in 1843 ( 'TJeber den Milchsaft und seine Bewe-gung ' ) demolished Schultz 's analogy of latex to blood .
They were published in the ' Botanische Zeitung , ' which was started in this year .
In 1844 Yon Mohl maintained , against the theory of Dupetit-Thouars , the dependence of the growth of Dicotyledons on the physiological activity of leaves .
The same year he published his remarks on the structure of the vegetable cell , which for a long time immensely influenced the course of vegetable histology .
He regarded the cell-wall as generally composed of a primary external imperforate membrane , and a secondary one usually perforated with apertures .
This he supposed to be lined by a third membrane , " Primordialschlauch , " the primordial utricle of English writers .
" This membrane forms a perfectly closed , cell-like , thin-walled vesicle , which in the fresh plant is closely applied to the inner wall of the cell , and therefore escapes observation ; while in specimens which have been preserved in spirit it is contracted , and more or less detached from the wall of the cell .
" In 1845 Yon Mohl published a memoir on the Elora of Wurtemberg .
It is interesting to find a great physiological botanist engaged in work of this kind , which it is rather the fashion at present to depreciate .
Von Mohl enters at some length into the causes which influence the local distribution of plants ; and it is in regard to points of this kind that he attaches scientific importance to local floras .
An examination of a monstrous state of Poa cdpina led him to the now generally received opinion that the lower floral glume of grasses is not a perigonial leaf but a bract .
To the same year belongs a paper on the penetration of cuticle into stomata .
Von Mohl 's paper , " Ueber die Saftbewegungen im Inneren der Zellen , " published in 1846 ( Bot. Zeit .
p. 73 ) , has been the starting-point of all modern views about the vegetable cell .
He first described accurately the " opaque viscid fluid of a white colour , having granules intermingled with it , which fluid I call protoplasm."He observed the vacuolization of the protoplasm until it forms a mere network .
He described the motion which takes place in the filament of the network , " or perhaps now first becomes visible , " and he measured its rate .
Schleiden gave the theory its finishing touch in the third edition of his ' Principles ' ( 1849 ) , by identifying Mohl 's primordial utricle and circulating fluid .
In 1847 Yon Mohl confirmed the researches of Amici ( for whom he had a high regard ) on the impregnation of Orchidese , which , in his judgment , made an end of Schleiden 's theory as to the origin of the embryo in Phanerogams , although the controversy was carried on for some time longer by Hofmeister , Tulasne , Schacht , and Badlkofer .
He also published an elaborate memoir , which has been translated into both Erench vi and English , in which he discusses against Mulder the value of the combined action of sulphuric acid and iodine as a colour-test for cellulose , his object being to insist on that substance being regarded as the basis of all vegetable membrane .
In 1850 he experimented with Hoffman on the function of vessels , but with contradictory results .
He pointed out in 1851 that the formation of chlorophyl is in intimate relation with protoplasm , portions of which it tinges in making its first appearance .
In 1852 he published a short paper on the grape-mildew .
In 1855 his researches on the structure of " liber " brought out some entirely new facts .
He had already been the first ( in 1836 ) to examine bast-cells with care .
He pointed out that bast-cells were far from being so exclusive a constituent of the liber as had been supposed , and that they were often accompanied , or even entirely replaced , by the " Gitterzellen .
" His study of the causes of the opening and closing of stomata in 1856 was the first systematic examination which the question had received .
It cleared up the apparent contradiction of the results obtained by Sir Joseph Banks on the one hand , and Moldenhawer on the other .
In 1857 Yon Mohl discovered the extremely curious fact that the substance known as " gum tragacanth " is produced by the alteration of the cells of the pith and medullary rays of various species of Astragalus .
Passing over contributions of minor importance , Yon Mohl published in 1870 a short discussion of the passages hr the writings of Linnaeus which have been held to indicate a foreshadowing in his mind of the theory of descent .
The last paper which appeared in Yon Mohl 's lifetime was on an extremely suggestive subject , the morphology of the foliar organs of the umbrella-pine of Japan ( Sciadopitys ) .
The microscopic structure of these organs led him to compare them to two consolidated leaves with the organic underside turned uppermost .
They therefore suggested an analogy with the squamce fructiferce of Conifer\#174 ; generally , upon the true nature of which they have therefore been held to throw an important light .
In 1850 Yon Mohl published a small work with the title " Die vege-tabilische Zelle , " which weaves the results of a great deal of what he had written in scattered memoirs into a continuous whole .
It was translated into English by Prof. Henfrey in 1852 .
Yon Mohl felt the greatest interest in improving the means of histological and anatomical research , and wrote several papers on the construction and use of optical instruments , and in 1846 published a book on micrography .
Dr. Bobebt Edmond Gbant was the seventh son of Alexander Grant , Esq. , " Writer to the Signet .
He was bom in his father 's house in Argyle vii Square , Edinburgh , on the 11th of November , 1793 .
His mother 's maiden name was Jane Edmond .
It appears , from a memorandum in Dr. G-rant 's handwriting , that he was sent from home to be nursed , and saw little of either of his parents during his infancy and childhood .
He had eight brothers and three sisters , all of whom died before him ; and as none of them left any children , Dr. Grant was the last survivor of his family .
When about ten years old he was placed at the High School of Edinburgh , where he continued for five years , under the tuition , successively , of Mr. Christison ( afterwards Professor in the University ) , Dr. Carson , and Dr. Adam , the Hector , author of the well-known work on Homan Antiquities .
In 1808 his father died ; and in November of that year Dr. Grant became a student in the University of Edinburgh , attending the junior classes of Latin and Greek .
In the following November he entered on his curriculum of medical study , and during its course attended the several classes in the Eaculty of Medicine under the Professors of that day .
He also studied Natural History under Professor Jameson , and attended the lectures of some of the extra-academical teachers .
After completing his course of medical study , he in 1814 took his Degree of Doctor of Medicine , and published his inaugural dissertation , " De Sanguinis Circuitu .
" In the mean time he had obtained ( in May 1814 ) the Diploma of the College of Surgeons .
In November of the same year he was elected one of the Presidents of the Medical Society of Edinburgh , a place justly regarded as an honourable object of ambition among the young aspirants in the Medical School .
Hather more than a year after taking his degree Dr. Grant went to the Continent , where he spent upwards of four years .
During this time he visited various places of interest in Prance , Italy , and Germany , and made a pedestrian tour in Hungary ; but his principal stay was in Paris , Home , Leipsic , Dresden , Vienna , and Munich , on account , no doubt , of the varied opportunities for scientific study and general culture afforded by these foreign seats of science , art , and learning .
He returned to Edinburgh in the summer of 1820 , and took up his residence in his native city .
At a later time he became a Fellow of the Edinburgh College of Physicians ; but he seems not to have engaged in medical practice\#151 ; his career had taken another direction .
He had early imbibed a taste for Comparative Anatomy and Zoology , and now devoted himself assiduously to the prosecution of those branches of science , both by continued systematic study and by original research .
The study of the invertebrate animals was peculiarly attractive ; and at this time Dr. Grant published various interesting anatomical and physiological observations on mollusks and zoophytes ; and his name will always be associated with the advances of our knowledge concerning the structure and economy of sponges , to the investigation of which Dr. Grant at this time enthusiastically applied himself .
The pools left by the retiring tide on the shores of the Firth of viii Forth afforded favourable opportunities for observation ; and he would spend hours patiently watching the phenomena exhibited by these humble organisms in their native element .
Dr. Grant remained in Edinburgh till 1827 , and in the mean time communicated the results of his various scientific inquiries to the ' Edinburgh Philosophical Journal ' and the ' Memoirs of the Wernerian Society , ' of which he became an active member .
He was also ( in 1824 ) elected a Eellow of the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh .
In June 1827 Dr. Grant was elected Professor of Comparative Anatomy and Zoology in the newly founded University of London , afterwards University College .
He was not altogether new to the work of teaching .
He had some early , though brief , experience in Edinburgh , in 1824 , when Dr. Barclay , who for some years had delivered lectures on Comparative Anatomy during the Summer Session , entrusted him with the part of the course which related to the anatomy of invertebrated animals .
He entered on his duties in London in 1828 , and in October of that year delivered his inaugural lecture , which was published at the time and went through two editions .
In this office he continued up to the time of his death , during which long period of forty-six academical years he never omitted a single lecture .
This was a point on which he justly prided himself .
Up to the last Session ( 1873-74 ) he continued to give five lectures a week ; but , sensible of failing strength , he proposed to reduce the number to three in the next Session ( which he was not destined to see ) .
The number of pupils in his class fluctuated a good deal , but was never large , attendance not being compulsory in the Medical Curriculum prescribed by the Licensing Corporations .
In one Session the number was fifty-six , but usually it .
was between thirty and forty , and sometimes much less .
After he had thus laboured for more than twenty years , the Council of the College added to the small return he received for his services an annual stipend of \gt ; \#163 ; 100 , which was continued during the rest of his incumbency .
About the same time a number of his friends , in presenting him with a microscope in testimony of their esteem , purchased for him a Government Annuity of \#163 ; 50 .
Afterwards he succeeded to some property left by his brother Erancis , an officer in the Madras Army , who died in 1852 ; so that in his latter years he found himself in easy circumstances .
His leading pupils were much attached to him , and he was sincerely esteemed and respected by all .
His style of lecturing was clear and impressive , with a ready and copious flow of language .
Without meaning to speak of his mode of treating his subject , we may nevertheless remark that on one great biological question ( the origin of species ) he was from the first an evolutionist , and on the promulgation of the Darwinian hypothesis of natural selection he became one of its warmest adherents .
In 1833 Dr. Grant delivered a gratuitous course of forty lectures on the structure and classification of animals to the members of the Zoological Society .
In 1837 he was appointed Fullerian Professor of Physiology in the Royal Institution , which office he held for the usual period of three years .
At a later time he was appointed by the Trustees of the British Museum to the Swiney Lectureship on G-eology , the tenure of which is limited to five years .
In 1841 he delivered the Annual Oration before the British Medical Association .
In 1836 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of London .
He was also a Fellow of the Linnean , Zoological , and Geological Societies .
Dr. Grant 's vacations were spent sometimes in Scotland , but chiefly abroad , in France , Germany , Belgium , and Holland .
On more than one of these occasions he was accompanied by an intelligent and favourite Hindoo pupil , Dr. Chuckerbutty , who afterwards became a Professor in the Government Medical College of Calcutta .
Dr. Grant seems to have had a special liking to Holland ; which he visited and revisited several times\#151 ; partly , no doubt , on account of its scientific institutions and zoological museums , but largely also for the sake of acquiring the Dutch language .
In like manner he afterwards spent his vacation in Copenhagen , and worked hard at Danish .
Indeed it is to be noted that he had a great taste for the study of languages , both practical and philological , and spoke the principal European tongues fluently .
Dr. Grant 's lectures were reported in the early Numbers of the 'Lancet ' ( 1833-34 ) , and he afterwards published a treatise on Comparative Anatomy which embodied the substance of them .
The work came out in parts , but was not completed .
He was also author of the article " Animal Kingdom " in Todd 's ' Cyclopaedia of Anatomy .
' The titles and dates of his communications to periodical works are given in the Royal Society 's ' Catalogue of Scientific Papers .
' They are 35 in number , and extend from 1825 to 1839 .
Dr. Grant was a devoted lover of music , and attendance at operas and concerts was one of his chief enjoyments in his latter years .
In August 1874 Dr. Grant suffered from a dysenteric attack , for which at first he would have no medical advice ; and although subsequently , by appropriate treatment , the virulence of the disease was subdued , his strength was exhausted , and he died on the 23rd of that month at his house close by Euston Square .
He was buried in Highgate Cemetery , attended to the grave by a few old friends and attached pupils , among whom was his friend and former companion in travel , Dr. Chuckerbutty , who was then in England , and two months later was destined to follow his venerated master .
Dr. Grant was never married .
He knew of no surviving relatives .
Three of his brothers , whose deaths he has recorded , were military officers .
Of these , James , a lieutenant in the German Legion , fell at the siege of Badajoz in 1811 ; Alexander , captain in the Madras Engineers , died in the Burmese war in 1825 ; and Francis , captain in the Madras Army , as already mentioned , died at Edinburgh in 1852 .
By his will Dr. Grant bequeathed the whole of his property , including tol .
xxiii .
b his collections and library , to University College , in the service of which he had spent the greater part of his life , and to the principles of which he was sincerely attached .
Sir John Rennie , C.E. , past President of the Institution of Civil Engineers , was born August 30 , 1794 .
He first assisted his father , the late John Rennie , in building both Southwark and Waterloo bridges .
After the death of his father in 1821 he succeeded him as'.Engineer to the Admiralty , a post he held for ten years .
Among his more important works are London Bridge ( for which he received the honour of knighthood ) , Sheerness Dockyard , the completion of Ramsgate Harbour and Plymouth Breakwater ( commenced by his father ) , the Earl of Lonsdale 's Docks at Whitehaven , a portion of those at Cardiff , and the carrying out for a number of years of the great system of drainage and land reclamation in the Lincolnshire fens , also works at Newry and Dundalk . .
He was the author of a noble work on Harbours , of which Her Majesty was graciously pleased to accept the dedication , and for which he received tokens of honour from their Imperial Majesties the Emperors of Russia and Austria ; also of a monograph on Plymouth Breakwater , and a small History of Engineering in the form of a Presidential Address to the Institution of Civil Engineers .
In conjunction with his late brother , G- .
Rennie , he contributed to introduce the screw-propeller into the navy , and erected the machinery for the mints of Calcutta , Bombay , and Mexico ; they also erected the Royal Clarence Victualling Yard at Plymouth ; and Sir John Rennie was the first to perceive the uses of the diving-bell in engineering works .
Sir John Rennie was admittedly the highest anthority on all subjects connected- with hydraulic engineering , harbours , drainage , canals , irrigation , the storage of water , and the management of rivers ; and his pamphlets on the drainage , of Lombardy having attracted notice , the Italian Premier , Signor Sella , advised His Majesty the King of Italy to confer upon him the Order of St. Maurice and St. Lazare .
Sir John long possessed a wide reputation on the Continent , as may be gathered not only from the above remarks , but from the fact that he constructed the harbour of Ponte Delgada in the Azores , that he was a Knight of the Tower and Sword of Portugal , of the Wasa of Sweden , and was also a Member of the Academy of Sciences of Stockholm and of the Austrian Society of Civil Engineers .
Sir John was , further , well versed in general science and literature ; and besides belonging to most of the scientific and learned societies in the metropolis , he was long an active Member of the Royal Society and the Meteorological^ Committee and one of the Council , and was also Chairman of the Juries at the Exhibition , 1862 .
Of late years , owing to .
age and increasing infirmities , he retired almost entirely " from active life and- public notice , and finally died , September 3 , 4874 .
" His kindness of heart won him many friends , who will greatly regret his loss .
xi Lambert Adolphe Jacques Quetelet was bom at Ghent on the 22nd of February , 1796 .
He had the misfortune of losing his father at the early age of seven$ and the poverty of his family obliged him to seek his own livelihood at once on leaving the Lycee .
He obtained an appointment as teacher of mathematics , drawing , grammar , \amp ; c. in a school at Oudenarde .
At the end of a year he returned to Ghent ; and in February 1815 , the very day on which he completed his nineteenth year , he was appointed to the Chair of Mathematics at the New College , which had replaced the Lycee .
This appointment was not a brilliant one ; but with the private lessons which he had the opportunity of giving , it afforded him a subsistence , and he had the satisfaction of feeling himself independent .
He had even some leisure to devote to science , his flute , drawing , and to literary composition .
About this time he , in conjunction with"his intimate friend and former schoolfellow Dandelin , wrote an opera , entitled " Jean Second ou Charles Quint dans les murs de Gand , " which was favourably spoken of .
Dandelin soon afterwards left Ghent ; and Gamier , who had become Professor of Mathematics at the University of Ghent , persuaded Quetelet to return to science .
He studied the higher mathematics imder Gamier , and at the same time assisted the latter by giving some of his lectures .
In 1819 he took the degree of Doctor of Science , the first conferred in that University .
On this occasion he gave a brilliant inaugural address , in which he made known his discovery of a new curve of the third degree .
This discovery of the " focale " was much noticed in the 'Annales Belgiques ' and in the * Mercure Beige/ and was spoken , of by Gamier and Raoul as a great honour to the newly founded university .
At the beginning of August , M. Falck , Minister of Public Instruction , came to Ghent , and was present at the laying of the first stone of the New University Buildings .
Quetelet was on this occasion presented to M. Falck , and the strong recommendation of him by two such men as Gamier and Raoul led to his appointment shortly afterwards to a Professorship of Elementary Mathematics at the Athenaeum of Brussels .
This appointment was made in the beginning of October ; and by a private arrangement Quetelet engaged to give one quarter of his salary to his aged predecessor , M. Delhaye , as a retiring pension .
In Brussels Quetelet soon became intimate with the French refugees , David , Arnault , \amp ; c. , besides frequenting the society of artists and literary men , and the theatres , where Talma , Mademoiselle Mars , \amp ; c. gave a series of performances each year .
At this period he composed various verses , and published , in the ' Annals Belgiques/ in the year 1825 , an " Essai sir la Romance .
" On the 24th of February Quetelet was made a Member of the Royal Belgian Academy of Science , receiving the diploma from Van Hulthem .
The first memoir he presented to the Academy , after his reception , VOL. XXIII .
c xii was on the 14th of October , 1820 , and was entitled " Memoir sir un Formule Generate pour determiner la surface d'un polygone form sir un sphere par des arcs de grands ou de petits cercles , disposes entre eux d'une maniere quelconque .
" The following are the titles of other papers , also read in the Academy , between December 1820 and February 1826 : \#151 ; " Sir les Conchoi'des Circulaires .
" Note to " Memoir sir les Caustiques .
" " Memoir sir line nouvelle maniere de considerer les Caus-tiques , produites soit par Deflexion , soit par Refraction .
" " Resume d'une nouvelle Theory des Caustiques , suivi de differentes applications a la theory des projections stereographiques .
" " Demonstration et deve-loppements de la theory des Caustiques secondaires .
" Quetelet 's researches , already noticed by Gfergonne and other distinguished geometricians , were particularly remarked on by Chasles , after the ' Correspondence Mathematique et Physique ' had given them greater publicity .
Two other memoirs by Quetelet , inserted in the collection of the Academy , still remain to be noticed\#151 ; the " Memoir sir quelques constructions graphiques des orbites planetaires " and the " Memoir sir differents sujets de Geometry a trois dimensions .
" The ' Correspondence Mathematique et Physique , ' already mentioned , was commenced by Gamier and Quetelet early in the year 1825 .
Its contributors were dispersed after 1830 , and it came to an end in 1839 .
In 1822 Quetelet went , at the request of the Academy , with M. Kickx to explore the celebrated grotto known as the Trou de Han , and they drew up a report with plates .
In 1824 it was proposed that Quetelet should extend his teaching at the Athenaeum , so as to include Elementary Physics , Natural History , and Chemistry .
About the same time M. Thiry , Professor of the Higher Mathematics , resigned his post ; and during the session 1824 and 1825 we find Quetelet teaching at the Athenaeum the Descriptive Geometry of Monge , the Theory of Shadows and Perspective , and the Calculus of Probabilities of Lacroix .
He also gave public lectures at the Museum on Experimental Physics and on the Elements of Astronomy , which he had substituted for Natural History and Chemistry .
He had two classes , which he conducted simultaneously in adjoining rooms , passing from one to another , and perfect order is said to have reigned in each .
His teaching is described as simple and natural : his arithmetical instruction was founded on a few general principles ; and as soon as his pupils were initiated into algebraic notation and its first rules , he showed them how this admirable instrument could be made to solve ordinary problems .
His talent for drawing was evident in his manner of tracing his geometrical figures .
His courses of Physics and Astronomy at the Museum attracted large xiii audiences of all classes of society .
He had a true gift for exposition , and could with very simple apparatus make himself clearly understood .
In fact he objected to complicated instruments , and said of them that they often serve only to distract the attention from the results which it is the object of the lesson to explain .
Quetelet composed several elementary works for his public courses of instruction .
The first in date , " On Elementary Astronomy , " appeared in 1826 at Paris , in the ' Bibliotheque Industrielle de Malher , ' and was frequently reprinted in France and Belgium , and translated into several languages .
In 1827 he published a much more complete work , his ' Astro-nomie Populaire .
' This latter was shortly followed by ' Les Positions de Physique , ' wThich is considered superior to the ' Astronomy .
' He endeavoured subsequently , in a little volume entitled " De la Chaleur , " to put into practice his idea of founding instruction in Elementary Physics on experiments within reach of all .
His intention was to follow this up by similar treatises on Magnetism , Electricity , and Light .
Quetelet wrote the chapter on Acoustics in the ' Physique , ' contributed by M. Plateau to the ' Encyclopedie Populaire .
' Finally , he published in 1828 ' Instructions Populaires sir le Calcul des Probability , ' which was a resume of the lessons he had been giving for several years at Brussels .
His public courses of lectures had been more and more successful ever since 1824 .
The government now deemed it advisable to organize other lectures of the same kind ; and towards the end of 1826 the Administrator G-eneral Van Ewyck requested of Quetelet , on the king 's behalf , a report on the matter , and on the 17th December the Museum of Science and Literature was established by a royal decree at Brussels .
Quetelet was chosen for the Chair of Physics and Astronomy ; but as he already gave courses of lectures on these subjects in his capacity of Professor at the Athenaeum , he obtained leave to give a course on the History of Science at the Museum .
He did not , however , long continue to give this course , as he left the Athenaeum at the beginning of the year 1828 , when he transferred his courses of Physics and Astronomy , which he had been giving at the latter institution , to the programme of the Museum , and these he continued to give until the close of the session 1833 and 1834 .
The usefulness of the Museum was much diminished by the Revolution of 1830 ; and after languishing for a few years that institution was finally absorbed in 1834 by the Free University .
A proposal was made to Quetelet to join the Free University ; but this he declined , stating that he considered such an appointment to be inconsistent with his duties at the Observatory , to which he had been appointed on condition of not taking any other .
He proposed , however , to continue his courses at the Observatory , those of Physics and Meteorology during the winter , and that of Astronomy during the summer evenings .
This proposal was not acceded to and Quetelet for a short time gave up public teaching , in xiv which he had already been engaged for twenty years .
He , however , soon entered on it again , for , by a royal decree , Jan. 6 , 1836 , he was appointed Professor of Astronomy* and Geodesy at the Ecole Militaire .
During this time he paid much attention to falling stars , and gave a method for determining the height of aerolites , by making simultaneous observations from different points .
He also made experiments on the declination and inclination of the needle .
Quetelet had very earnest views on the subject of education , and he had twice occasion to make them publicly known\#151 ; once under the Government of the Low Countries , once after the Eevolution of 1830 .
In the Commission instituted by King William in 1828 , he was one of the small minority who wished to emancipate public instruction .
He demanded a reduction of the number of Universities , and the establishment of two Polytechnic Schools\#151 ; one for the northern provinces of the kingdom , the other for the southern provinces .
Finally , he maintained that the time had come for substituting the use of modern languages for that of Latin , still in use .
Between 1823 and 1832 Quetelet was much occupied with Statistics ; and the papers he published on this subject have perhaps contributed more than any others to popularize his name .
The first memoir was read to the Academy , and entitled " Memoir sir la loi des naissances et de la mortality a Bruxelles .
" The second , also read to the Academy , " Eecherches sir la population , les naissances , les deces , les prisons , les depots de mendicite , \amp ; c. dans le Eoyaume des Pays-Bas .
" A third , also read to the Academy , " Eecherches Statistiques sir le Eoyaume des Pays-Bas .
" No new memoir appeared in 1830 ; but during the years 1831 and 1832 he devoted most of his time to Statistics , and published the following five memoirs on the subject:\#151 ; " Eecherches sir la loi de croissance de l'homme .
" " Eecherches sir le penchant au crime aux differents ages .
" " Eecherches sir le poids de l'homme aux differents ages .
" " Eecherches sir la reproduction et la mortalite , " conjointly with M. Smits .
" La Statistique des Tribunaux de la Belgique pendant les annees 1826 a 1831 .
" In the memoir " Sir le penchant au crime , " Quetelet worked out some of the ideas already made known by " Les Eecherches Statistiques sir le Eoyaume des Pays-Bas .
" He passed in review the different causes tending either to develop or to lesson the disposition to crime , and denied that instruction in reading and writing had the purely beneficial influence usually ascribed to it .
In enumerating his works we must not omit two other papers :\#151 ; " De 1 influence des saisons sir les facultes de l'homme , " and " Sir la possibilite de mesurer l'influence des causes qui modifient les Elements Sociaux .
" XV " Quetelet had been deputed by Government to attend the Meeting o\#163 ; the British Association for the Advancement of Science which was to be held at Cambridge , beginning on the 25th of June , 1833 .
He went by Paris , where he read at the Institute his memoir on Mortality .
At Cambridge he took a warm interest in the establishment of the Statistical Section , of which Malthus , Babbage , and other savants became members .
In London he was summoned before an Inquiry Commission instituted by Parliament , to furnish information on the mode of keeping the Civil Registers of Belgium , and on the Census of the 1st of January , 1830 .
Quetelet was one of the most active members of the Academy of Sciences at Brussels , and was always very desirous of promoting its independence .
In 1834 he was appointed Permanent Secretary .
In 1835 he brought out an ' Annuaire de 1'Academic .
' About this time also he wrote for the British Association a paper of great interest , entitled " Apergu de l'etat actuel des Sciences .
Mathematiques chez les Beiges .
" Quetelet was appointed by the House of Representatives one of the Central Jury of Science .
He retained these functions for some time , and showed great kindliness and sagacity in discharging them .
In the course of the year 1835 there appeared at Paris the chief of all Quetelet 's works , " Sir l'homme et le developpement de ses facultes , ou Essai de Physique Sociale .
" It was a resume of all his previous works on Statistics .
In Eebruary 1836 Quetelet was charged with the execution of a Royal Decree for the establishment of a little meridian in the cities of Antwerp , Ostend , Bruges , Ghent , and Liege , and for placing a meridian-instrument on the walls of the Cathedrals , Hotels de Yille , or other suitable buildings of forty-one different towns .
In August 1839 Quetelet made a journey , in company with his wife , in Prance , Italy , and Tyrol .
His object was threefold .
In the first place , he was to compare , in conjunction with his fellow commissioners , Messrs. Dumortier and Teichman , the standard weights and measures of Belgium with those of Prance ; secondly , he was to attend the Congress of Savants at Pisa ; and thirdly , he purposed to revise the determinations of magnetic intensity obtained in 1830 , of the correctness of which he entertained some doubts .
At the sitting of the 7th December the Academy received a report of the proceedings of the Commission in the month of August ; and Quetelet also presented the results of the Magnetic Observations which he had made in Tyrol and Italy .
In 1839 Quetelet communicated to the Academy a new Catalogue of the most remarkable appearances of falling stars\#151 ; the second which he had made , for he had early turned his attention to this subject .
He xvi appears , however , to have been in some uncertainty as to the nature of these phenomena* The year 1839 was marked at the Observatory by the commencement of the observations on the flowering of plants , and in the month of January was begun the first of a series of monthly magnetic observations .
These last observations were made at the suggestion of the Loyal Society of London .
It was in the year 1839 that Quetelet was elected a Foreign Member of the Loyal Society ; and in May 1841 these observations were considerably extended , and were thenceforth made regularly day and night at intervals of two hours .
The year 1841 was an important period of Quetelet 's life .
He thought that the time was past for individuals to promote the advancement of science by their isolated efforts , and that further investigations would need to be conducted by people associated together in academic bodies .
In 1842 he drew up a set of instructions as to the choice of subjects for the reports .
These instructions embraced Meteorology and Physical Geography and .the Animal Kingdom .
In 1846 Quetelet published " Lettres a S.A.L. le due regnant de Saxe Coburg sir la theory des probabilites appliques aux Sciences Morales et Politiques , " which was reviewed by Sir John Herschel in the ' Edinburgh Leview .
' Soon afterwards he published a work entitled " Du Systeme Sociale et des lois qui le regissent .
" The Devolution of 1848 turned Quetelet 's thoughts to political questions ; and in 1849 he read to the Academy a new note , entitled " Fragments sir la maniere dont il convient d'envisager les Sciences Politiques et sir l'intervention du gouvernement dans les affairs des particulars .
" He also presented to the literary section of the Academy a ' Note sir la Nature des Etats constitutionels , et sir quelques prineipes qui en derivent .
' Quetelet had in 1841 organized a general system of observation of the periodical phenomena of vegetation .
Five years later he attempted to solve the question as to the influence of temperatures on these phenomena ; and he was led to appreciate the influence of heat , not according to the sum of the mean daily temperatures , as did Leaumur , but by the sum of their squares .
The results of these researches on the electricity of the atmosphere appeared in 1849 .
Two years afterwards Quetelet made an important investigation on the shape , size , and velocity of atmospheric waves , according to the observations made in June , July , and August 1841 , and of the system of atmospheric waves of Central Europe , according to hourly observations of the summer solstice of 1841 and of the winter solstice of 1843 .
This work on atmospheric waves was an important step in meteo-rology , and paved the Way for the recent labours in international meteo-rology , to which we owe the remarkable law of tempests of M. Marie-Davy .
The researches on the temperature of the earth , of which the xvii accounts were first inserted in the * Memoires ' of the Academy , and those on the atmospheric waves , which had appeared successively in the * Annals ' of the Observatory , were afterwards united with other works on meteorology , and published under the title " Sir le Climate de la Belgique .
" Quetelet married in 1825 a daughter of M. Curtet , a French physician , and niece of the well-known chemist Professor van Mons , a highly accomplished lady , by whom he had a son and a daughter .
He was very hospitable , and entertained at his house persons of distinction who came to Brussels\#151 ; artists , savants , literary men , and politicians of all parties .
In July 1855 he was seized with a fit of apoplexy , which was pronounced by the physicians , to be serious .
His memory was much injured by it , although after a week or ten days he wished to resume work ; and in the September following he was able to be present at the public Meeting of the Section of Pine Arts .
He continued to work during the remaining years of his life ; and , in fact , when misfortune came heavily upon him by the loss of his wife , his daughter , and several of his grandchildren , work became his only consolation .
His son , M. Ernest Quetelet , had now taken the direction of the Observatory , and Quetelet occupied himself with Meteorology , Physical Geography , and Statistics .
He continued to preside at the Central Commission and assisted punctually at the International Congresses of Statistics , which were held in the great capitals of Europe .
Six months before his death he made the fatiguing journey to St. Petersburg in consequence of a pressing invitation from the Grand Duke Constantine , under whose auspices the Statistical Congress was to be held .
Neither the fear of cholera nor the anxious entreaties of his family could deter him from this enterprise .
On his return he seemed refreshed , having been pleased by his reception .
About this time also he had been made an Associate of the Academy of Moral and Political Science of the Institute of Prance ; and ten days afterwards , in a congratulatory address sent to the Royal Academy of Belgium on the occasion of the hundredth anniversary of its foundation , the Academy of Sciences at Berlin proclaimed him the founder of a new science .
To the last he was punctual in fulfilling his duties as Perpetual Secretary of the Academy .
On Monday , February 2 , 1874 , although already suffering from the attack of bronchitis which carried him off a fortnight later , he was present at the Literary Section .
On the Thursday he went for the last time down to his study , and was with difficulty prevented from going to the Meeting of the Pine-Art Section .
He became rapidly worse , and expired on the 17th of February .
xvii accounts were first inserted in the ' Memoires ' of the Academy , and those on the atmospheric waves , which had appeared successively in the ' Ann ales ' of the Observatory , were afterwards united with other works on meteorology , and published under the title " Sir le Climate de la Belgique .
" Quetelet married in 1825 a daughter of M. Curtet , a French physician , and niece of the well-known chemist Professor van Mons , a highly accomplished lady , by whom he had a son and a daughter .
He was very hospitable , and entertained at his house persons of distinction who came to Brussels\#151 ; artists , savants , literary men , and politicians of all parties .
In July 1855 he was seized with a fit of apoplexy , which was pronounced by the physicians to be serious .
His memory was much injured by it , although after a week or ten days he wished to resume work ; and in the September following he was able to be present at the public Meeting of the Section of Fine Arts .
He continued to work during the remaining years of his life ; and , in fact , when misfortune came heavily upon him by the loss of his wife , his daughter , and several of his grandchildren , work became his only consolation .
His son , M. Ernest Quetelet , had now taken the direction of the Observatory , and Quetelet occupied himself with Meteorology , Physical Geography , and Statistics .
He continued to preside at the Central Commission , and assisted punctually at the International Congresses of Statistics , which were held in the great capitals of Europe .
Six months before his death he made the fatiguing journey to St. Petersburg in consequence of a pressing invitation from the Grand Duke Constantine , under whose auspices the Statistical Congress was to be held .
Neither the fear of cholera nor the anxious entreaties of his family could deter him from this enterprise .
On his return he seemed refreshed , having been pleased by his reception .
About this time also he had been made an Associate of the Academy of Moral and Political Science of the Institute of France ; and ten days afterwards , in a congratulatory address sent to the Royal Academy of Belgium on the occasion of the hundredth anniversary of its foundation , the Academy of Sciences at Berlin proclaimed him the founder of a new science .
To the last he was punctual in fulfilling his duties as Perpetual Secretary of the Academy .
On Monday , February 2 , 1874 , although already suffering from the attack of bronchitis which carried him off a fortnight later , he was present at the Literary Section .
On the Thursday he went for the last time down to his study , and was with difficulty prevented from going to the Meeting of the Fine-Art Section .
He became rapidly worse , and expired on the 17th of February .
VOL. XXIII .
d xviii Piiilippe-Edouard Poulletier de Vernetjil was born at Paris on the 13th of February , 1805 .
He was educated for the magistracy , but the events of the year 1830 interfered with his plans .
It so happened that just at this period of indecision about his future career geology was making a great advance .
The fact was now becoming recognized that the earth 's crust , far from having remained unchanged from remote antiquity , had undergone upheavals and fractures which had repeatedly caused alterations in the surface .
In addition to this , even the relative ages of these different phenomena had been estimated .
De Verneuil 's interest was engaged by these results , and he studied under Elie de Beaumont the methods of investigation of geology ; and resolved not merely to be a passive student of the works of others , but to devote himself to the extension of the science .
With this view he made up his mind to travel , and selected Wales as the place of greatest interest since the publication of the researches of the two celebrated geologists Sedgwick and Murchison .
These latter had recently established a certain order of superposition in the very thick group of the most ancient strata , which had hitherto been confounded under the general name of " Transition Bocks .
" He next travelled in the East ; and on the way to Turkey , on the Danube , fell in with some sympathetic companions , and with them he travelled through Moldavia and Bessarabia to Odessa , thence on to the Crimea and to the frontiers of Circassia , and later on to the Bosphorus .
He now published a memoir on the Crimea , which was supplemented and made more complete by a collection of fossils belonging to new and interesting species , which were described by M. Deshayes .
Through the private instruction of this savant De Verneuil became intimately acquainted with the fossil shells , a subject of so much importance to stratigraphical geology .
In the year 1838 De Verneuil paid special attention to the lower strata of the Bas-Boulonnais district , and thereby acquired considerable authority in determining the fossils of the ancient rocks .
It was on this account that when Messrs. Sedgwick and Murchison wished to compare the most ancient formations of the districts of the Bhine and Belgium with those of England , they invited De Verneuil to accompany them in their exploration .
In the memoir they afterwards published they acknowledge the great assistance afforded by their companion in placing at their disposal his rich collections .
In conjunction with M. d'Archiac , De Verneuil published in 1841 a description of the fossils of the oldest deposits of the Bhenish Provinces .
The work is preceded by a general survey of the fauna of the so-called Palaeozoic rocks , and is followed by a table of all the organic remains hitherto met with in the Devonian System of Europe .
The results of this journey were so satisfactory that shortly afterwards Murchison again requested De Verneuil 's company when he was planxix \#166 ; m'ng the exploration of Russia .
In the course of three summers , Messrs. Murchison , De Yerneuil , and De Keyserling examined an area equal in extent to more than half Europe .
They took different routes , meeting occasionally to compare notes .
The important work devoted to Russia in Europe and to the Oural Mountains , and accompanied by geological maps , appeared in 1845 .
The introduction of the Permian formation into the science was one of the chief results of this exploration .
The whole of the second volume of this book is the work of De Yemeuil , assisted by De Keyserling as far as the Palaeozoic fauna is concerned .
That part relating to the Secondary fauna was entrusted to D'Orbigny .
Taking a general survey of the fauna of the four Palaeozoic systems , the author shows that organized beings follow each other there in the same order as in the other countries of Europe .
De Yerneuil next turned his attention to the New World .
The North-American geologists had been working hitherto quite independently of those of Europe .
They had ascertained the remarkable development of the ancient strata in that quarter of the globe , so remarkable for their immense thickness as well as for the considerable area they cover\#151 ; no less than 35 degrees of longitude by 15 degrees of latitude .
There were then no data for connecting the two systems , owing to the separation of the two continents by several thousand miles .
Scarcely was the publication of the results of the Russian expedition completed when De Yemeuil undertook to supply this great want .
The task before him was no less than to follow and compare on the two distinct continents the sedimentary deposits from the oldest fossiliferous strata to those containing coal .
As a foundation for this labour he had only those species which he had studied in local collections , or which he had himself found .
He established the fact that even in such remote countries the first traces of life manifest themselves by nearly similar forms ; and there is , indeed , a striking agreement in the order of their succession .
This notice on the parallelism of the Palaeozoic strata of these two continents remains a standard work in spite of the constant advances of the science , and is perhaps the masterpiece of De Yerneuil .
His next labours were in Spain .
De Blainville , who did not believe in the universality of the laws of Palaeontology , engaged him in this enterprise .
Though the order of succession of the strata of Northern Europe and America were well established , this great naturalist supposed that in Spain , especially towards the South , the order of succession of the fossil strata must be reversed , or at any rate modified .
Between the years 1849 and 1862 De Yerneuil made no less than twelve journeys in the Peninsula , sometimes alone , sometimes in company with M. Edouard Collomb , well known for his works on ancient glaciers , and sometimes accompanied by young naturalists desirous of gaining instruction .
In these various journeys De Vemeuil collected a great number of fossils , and the laws of Palaeontology already established received striking confirmation .
A geological map of Spain was published after these laborious excursions , besides some memoirs of great interest , especially one on the Primordial fauna .
De Verneuil had been elected in 1854 free Member of the Academy des Sciences .
He was also a Member of the Royal Society and of other foreign Academies .
In his latter years he suffered from a weakness of sight .
He possessed singular clearness of judgment and freedom from prejudice , and could discuss with calmness and equanimity opinions directly opposed to his own .
In character he was extremely benevolent , and many acts of kindness are recorded of him .
His modesty of disposition inclined him to prefer dwelling rather on the discoveries of others than on his own ; and , in fact , it is not improbable that some of his fellow workers may from this very circumstance have failed to appreciate his full merit .
During his last illness , which was of three months ' duration , he continued to take a lively interest in scientific and other questions .
His cheerfulness never forsook him ; and he died calmly on the 29th of May , 1873 , at the age of 68 .
He bequeathed his unique collection of fossils to the Gallery of the Ecole des Mines .

