" On the cause of the discrepancies observed by Mr. Bailey with the Cavendish Apparatus for determining the Mean Density of the Earth .
" By George Whitehurst Hearn , Esq. , of the Royal Military College , Sandhurst .
Communicated by Sir John F. W. Herschel , Bart. , F.R.S. After taking a summary review of the methods employed by Mr. Bailey for determining , on the plan devised by Mr. Cavendish , the mean density of the earth , and of the anomalies , hitherto unaccounted for , which had introduced perplexity in the results obtained , the author , suspecting that these anomalies had their source in the variable magnetic states of the masses which were the subject of experiment , traces the effects which such an influence might be supposed to have on those results .
He finds that , the attraction arising from gravitation between a mass and one of the balls being exceedingly minute , an almost inconceivably feeble magnetic state may be the cause of great perturbations .
He then proceeds to investigate the subject by the application of mathematical analysis ; from which he is led to the conclusion that the masses and balls do actually exert on one another influences which are independent of the action of gravitation .
He finds that such influences are of a very fluctuating nature ; the action arising from them being either positive or negative , and its sign also changing in each revolution as the masses are turned round a vertical axis ; and he observes that such action may either fall short of that arising from gravitation or exceed it many times .
Such disturbing force he conceives can be no other than a magnetic influence ; not however one of the ordinary kind , but that which Faraday has recently discovered as affecting all diamagnetic bodies .
The author concludes by proposing methods by which the inquiry should in future be conducted , so as to obviate or eliminate this source of error .
Such an inquiry , he remarks , would , by exhibiting the magnetic and diamagnetic powers under new aspects , lead , in all probability , to important consequences .

