VII .
" On the New Reflecting Telescope to be used at Melbourne , Australia .
" In a Letter to the President .
By the Rev. Dr. ROBINsoN , F.R.S. Received October 15 , 1867 .
Observatory , Armagh , October 14 , 1867 .
MY DEAR FRIEND , -AS you express a wish to know my recent impressions respecting the great telescope , I can say that they are very satisfactory .
When I saw it six weeks ago the first of the two great specula was just polished ; and though the essential parts of the equatoreal were in position , and one could estimate the facility with which it could be managed , the optical part of the telescope remained incomplete .
Now , I found the great and small specula in their places , a finder of four inches aperture attached , the circles divided , and the clock for driving the telescope enshrined in the pier .
One thing was wanting , weather fit for trying its power ; and during eighteen nights there was only one of even middling goodness .
That , however , was sufficient to prove that the instrument is thoroughly up to its intended work .
I examined several nebnlne and clusters , with whose appearance in Lord Rosse 's six-feet reflector I am familiar , and the difference was far less than I expected .
I may specify among them 51 Messier , whose spirals were seen on strong aurora , and the nebula in Aquarius , with its appendages like the ring of Saturn .
Its definition of stars is very good : a Lyrae had as small and sharp an image as I ever saw on such a night ; and a few pretty close double stars were well and clearly separated .
Part of this is probably due to the lattice-tube , which permits the escape of heated air , but more to the figure of the speculum , which is truly parabolic .
The peculiar nature of the mounting brings the circles completely within reach of the observer 's assistant ; and the mechanical appliances for the motions in right ascension and polar distance are so perfect , that we set the instrument on the faint objects which we were examning with great facility and rapidity .
One man can reverse the telescope in a minute and a quarter ; the quick motion in polar distance is of course far easier , and the slow one acts more like the tangent screw of 159 a circle than the mover of such a huge mass .
The clock is rather gigantic , but does its work with great precision , the objects which I examined remaining steady on the wire as long as I watched them ; and there is an ingenious and new contrivance for suiting its speed to planets or the moon .
There remain but a few matters to be completed ; the second great speculum is nearly polished , the glass small one is ready ; the micrometer and observing-chair are not commenced , nor the photographic apparatus and spectroscope .
These two last are no part of Mr. Grubb 's contract ; but the Committee thought themselves justified by the correspondence in ordering them , as their cost is small , and they will add greatly to the utility of the telescope .
In the fine sky of Melbourne it will , I trust , yield spectroscopic results surpassing any that have as yet been obtained * .
That it will realize fully the expectations of the people whose enlightened liberality has ordered its construction I am quite certain ; but I am not so certain that it will retain its present perfection very long if exposed without some shelter .
It is true that Mr. Cooper 's great achromatic has stood exposed to the rain and wind of Connaught for more than thirty years , and is still serviceable ; but besides its inferior size it is of coarser workmanship , and is provided with fewer of those beautiful contrivances which in this instrument make its movements so easy .
At Melbourne the rain of Markree is not to be feared ; but if one may judge from its position on the verge of a great continent , and from the analogy of India and the Cape , another enemy is to be dreaded , the fine dust which winds from the interior will probably bring .
This would find its way into all the bearings , and besides clogging their action would grind them out of truth .
The danger of this induces me , after careful discussion with Messrs. Le Sueur and the two Grubbs , to lay before you my views , which ( if you think them sound ) you may hold it advisable to mention to the authorities of Victoria .
Three modes occur to me of covering the telescope .
In any case it must be surrounded by a wall , for the comfort of the observer and to prevent intrusion .
This wall may support a moveable covering of such a kind as to let the instrument be pointed to every part of the sky .
The most usual form of this covering is a dome running on a circular railway , and with an opening or chase on one side reaching from its base to its summit , and closed by a sliding shutter .
The disadvantages of this plan are , that the performance of the telescope is somewhat injured by currents of warm air rising through the chase , and that it is much heavier and more costly than either of the others .
In this instance its diameter could not be less than 56 feet ; and though that magnitude is not beyond the resources of an accomplished engineer , yet it is not one to be encountered without the prospect of some adequate advantage .
The largest dome which I know ( Sir James South 's , of 36 feet diameter ) is a total failure ; but this does not weigh much with me-for , though planned by the celebrated Brunel , it transgresses against the elements of mechanical science .
A much simpler plan is the sliding roof .
In this case the walls are rectangular , enclosing a space rather broader than the instrument , and about three times as long .
The longer sides carry two rails , on which runs a kind of house long enough to cover the instrument and pier , and high enough to clear the latter .
That end which at Melbourne will be its north is closed by doors , which are opened at the time of observation , and the roof is wheeled away , leaving all in the open air .
It will be the cheapest and least bulky of the three .
Its defects are , that the open end presents some engineering difficulty , that the roof will hide about 12 ?
under the pole , and that the whole machinery is exposed to any dust that may be stirring during the hours of observing .
That which appears the best is the revolving roof .
Its vertical part is a prism of sixteen sides , six feet high , springing from a ring of cast iron , which revolves by rollers on a circular rail borne by the wall .
The top is nearly flat , with a chase large enough to let the telescope work freely , which can be covered by sliding shutters .
The tube , when in use , would project through the chase , and be essentially in free air , at other times could be lowered and completely sheltered ; while the other parts would be as well protected as under a dome .
In this case the internal diameter should be about 46 feet , with a chase 16 feet wide .
These dimensions would give complete command of the heavens , and such a roof would give less hold to a high wind than either of the others .
I enclose a rough sketch of its framing .
The panels and the three girders at the top to be of angleiron , light but strong , and these covered with tin plate .
If it were adopted , I suppose the frame would be made here , sent out in pieces , and put together and covered on its arrival .
The weight would be about 5 tons .
As to its cost , no estimate can be given , as labour costs more at Melbourne than with us ; but in Ireland it would be about ?
1200 .
I will conclude this long letter by telling you how much I am satisfied with our selection of the astronomer who is to work this glorious instrument .
He is not a mere mathematician ; such a one might be very helpless when he came to the practical details of observing , but he is thoroughly versed in its optical and mechanical requirements , and in the daily work of an observatory .
For this last he has been trained by Professor Adams during the past year ; one of the Committee , Mr. Warren De la Rue , the first of celestial photographers , has instructed him in the mysteries of that surprising art ; and for the last three months he has been constantly in Mr. Grubb 's works , studying all the mechanism of the telescope ( of which I see he has acquired full command ) , and taking an active part in the polishing of the great specula .
He seems fully to understand this most delicate process ; and it is my opinion that , if repolishing becomes necessary , he is fully competent to do it successfully .
I may therefore congratulate you in full hope on the inestimable harvest of discovery and triumph which will soon crown this magnificent enterprise .
Yours ever , ( Signed ) T.R. ROBINSON .
161

