VIII .
" Researches on Organo-metallic Bodies .
" Third Memoir .
-On a New Series of Organic Acids containing Nitrogen .
By EDWARD FRANKLAND , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) The author , in pursuing the line of research indicated in his former memoirs , has investigated the action of zincethyl and zincmethyl upon binoxide of nitrogen , and has succeeded in producing a new series of organic acids , by the substitution of oxygen in binoxide of nitrogen by methyl , ethyl , &amp;c. Binoxide of nitrogen is slowly absorbed by zincethyl , and the sole product of the reaction is a body which is deposited in magnificent rhomboidal colourless crystals .
This body has the composition expressed by the formula N2 C4 15 04 Zn + C4 15 Zn , and consists of the zinc salt of a new acid , for which the author proposes the name dinitroethylic acid , united with zincethyl .
The dinitroethylate of zinc and zincethyl is produced from binoxide of nitrogen and zincethyl according to the following equation , 2(Zn C4 H. ) )_ ( 2NO } -N2 C4 15 O4 Zn+C4 15 Zn .
The crystals of dinitroethylate of zinc and zincethyl instantly become opake on exposure to the air , owing to the formation of an oxidized product .
They are tolerably soluble in anhydrous ether without decomposition , but are instantly decomposed by anhydrous alcohol and by water .
Exposed to the gradually increasing heat of an oil-bath , dinitroethylate of zinc and zincethyl filses at 100 ?
Cent. , froths up , and begins slowly to evolve gas .
At 180 ?
the colour darkens , a small quantity of a highly alkaline liquid distils over , and a large amount of gas is evolved .
The latter consists of carbonic acid , olefiant gas , hydride of ethyl , nitrogen and protoxide of nitrogen .
When brought into contact with water , dinitroethylate of zinc and zincethyl is immediately decomposed with lively effervescence , due to the evolution of pure hydride of ethyl .
An opalescent solution is formed , possessing a powerfully alkaline reaction and a peculiar bitter taste .
The opalescent solution contains only basic dinitroethylate of zinc , and the reaction is expressed by the following equation : N2 C4H , 04 Zn+C4Ht5 Znm _ C4 I-I5 , HO J N2 C4 I5 04 Zn+ZnO .
Carbonic acid decomposes this basic salt , precipitating carbonate of zinc , and leaving the neutral salt in solution .
Dinitroethylate of zinc and zincethyl is also decomposed by dry oxygen according to the following equation : N2 4 cH 54 Zn+ C4 Zn N2 C4,5 04 Zn O2 J ZnO C4 H 0 .
When the product of oxidation is treated with water , basic dinitroethylate of zinc is produced along with alcohol .
Neutral dinitroethylate of zinc crystallizes in minute colourless needles containing half an equivalent of water .
It fuses at 100 ?
Cent. , and gradually becomes anhydrous .
It is very soluble in water and in alcohol .
Heated suddenly in air to about 300 ?
Cent. it burns rapidly with a bluish green flame .
Dinitroethylic acid can only exist in dilute solution ; it can be prepared , either by decomposing the zinc salt with dilute sulphuric acid and distilling in vacuo , or by decomposing the baryta salt by an exact equivalent of dilute sulphuric acid .
The dilute acid thus prepared possesses a pungent odour , somewhat resembling that of the nitro-fatty acids , and an acid taste .
It reddens litmus paper strongly , and gradually decomposes even at ordinary temperatures .
Neutralized by the carbonates of the various bases , it yields the corresponding salts .
The silver and magnesian salts thus prepared were analysed .
The salts of dinitroethylic acid are all soluble in water and in alcohol , and most of them crystallize with more or less difficulty .
They are all violently acted upon by concentrated nitric acid , the dinitroethylic acid being entirely decomposed and a nitrate of the constituent base produced .
Dilute nitric acid acts in the same manner , but more slowly .
They all fuse at a temperature little above 100 ?
Cent. The potash , soda , lime , and baryta salts deflagrate explosively , like loose gunpowder , at a temperature considerably below redness .
The following salts have been prepared and analysed-Formulae .
Dinitroethylate of silver ... ... ... ... . .
N C4 H , 04 Ag Double nitrate and dinitroethylate of silver .
N , C4H1 04Ag + NO6 Ag Dinitroethylate of copper ... ... ... ..2(N.2 4 I , , 04 Cu ) + HO Dinitroethylate of zinc ( crystallized ) ... ... 2(N2 C4 H5 04 Zn ) + O0 Dinitroethylate of zinc ( anhydrous ) ... ... N2 C4 H1 04 Zn Dinitroethylate of zinc ( basic ) ... ... ... .
N2 4 H1 04 Zn + ZnO Dinitroethylate of zinc and zincethyl ... .
N2 C4 H 04 Zn + C4 I Zn Dinitroethylate of baryta ... ... ... ... .
N2 C 115 04 Ba Dinitroethylate of lime .
N ... ... ... . .
, CN 4 H5 04 Ca+ 3HO Dinitroethylate of magnesia ... ... ... ... N C4 04 Mg Dinitroethylate of soda ... ... ... ... ... N2 C4 HE 04 Na .
Dinitromethylic acid.-When binoxide of nitrogen is absorbed by zincmethyl , dinitromethylic acid is produced , and forms a series of salts homologous with those of dinitroethylic acid .
The formula of this acid is N2 C2 H3 04 H , and the following salts have been examined : Dinitromethylate of zinc ... ... ... ... .
N2 C2 H3 04 Zn + HO Dinitromethylate of soda .
N2 C2 H3 04 Na + 2HO Dinitromethylate of zinc and zincmethyl. .
N2 C2 H304 Zn + C2 H3 Zn ?
It is difficult to arrive at any satisfactory conclusion relative to the rational constitution of this series of acids ; they may be regarded as belonging to the type of nitrous acid , containing a double equivalent of nitrogen , and in which one atom of oxygen has been replaced by an alcohol radical , thus , CCn 1Hn+ 1Io0 or they may be viewed as constructed upon the hyponitrous acid type , one equivalent of oxygen being replaced by an alcohol radical , and a second by binoxide of nitrogen , thus , Cn In +1 NOs Lo Without attaching much value to either hypothesis , the author prefers the latter , and remarks in conclusion that there can be little doubt that many new series of organic acids may , by analogous processes , be produced from inorganic acids by the replacement of one or more atoms of oxygen by an alcohol radical ; in fact his pupil , Mr. Hobson , is now engaged in the study of a new series containing sulphur , produced by the action of zincethyl and its homologues upon sulphurous acid .
These acids are formed by the replacement , of one equivalent of oxygen , in three equivalents of sulphurous acid , by an alcohol radical .

