60 Messrs. Stenhouse and Groves on Picrorocellin .
[ May 18 , axes of these rhomboidal plates correspond with that direction within the film of iodine which has been spoken of as the axis of the crystal : and as iodine belongs to the trimetric system , this may be considered the principal axis , as being the one in the direction of which the crystals are prismatically developed to the greatest extent ; and it also appears that when a ray of light passes normally through such a crystal it is divided into two rays polarized respectively parallel with and perpendicular to the same axis ; and the one whose flame of polarization is parallel with the principal axis suffers the least absorption .
III .
" Picrorocellin/ " By John Stenhouse , LL. D. , E.R.S. , and Charles Edward Groves .
Received April 27 , 1876 .
Through the kindness of Mr. C. Lavers Smith , the eminent orchil manufacturer of Spitalfields , we were furnished with a quantity of a lichen which he had observed to have a very bitter taste , and which came into the market through a Portuguese house .
It is believed to have been brought from the West Coast of Africa ; but our endeavours to ascertain the exact locality have hitherto been unsuccessful .
Erom the appearance of the lichen it seems to grow on limestone rocks ; and Mr. W. Carruthers , of the British Museum , and the Rev. J. Y. Crombie , to whom we submitted it , pronounced it to be a variety of fuciformis , the ordinary Rocella usually growing on trees .
This lichen is remarkable for its intensely bitter taste ; and the preliminary experiments showed that this is due to the presence of a crystalline compound which is but slightly soluble in water .
Picrorocellin .
The lichen was accordingly first treated with water and hydrate of lime , in the usual manner , to extract the erythrin which it contains in common with other varieties of Rocella , and the residue , after being dried at the ordinary temperature , was extracted by boiling spirit .
The alcoholic solution , which contained the bitter substance together with chlorophyl and various fatty and resinous impurities , was concentrated by distillation until almost the whole of the alcohol was removed .
When cold , the dark-coloured pasty mass was pressed in a cloth , boiled up with a small quantity of strong spirit , and allowed to cool , pressed , and again treated in the same manner .
By this means much of the chlorophyl and almost the whole of the oily matters were dissolved out , leaving a dark green-coloured crystalline product .
In order to remove the last traces of chlorophyl from this , it was boiled up twice or thrice with benziue , in which the crystals are only slightly soluble .
The spent " weed " from this variety of lichen which has been exhausted with ammonia in the ordinary process of the orchil manufacture also yields the same crystalline substance , but it is much more difficult to purify 187'6 .
] Messrs. Stenliouse and Groves on Picrorocellin .
than that obtained from the lichen which has been exhausted with milk of lime .
The erythrin in this lichen is identical with that from the ordinary kinds of li .
fuciformis , yielding orcin and erythrite when boiled with lime or other alkalies .
The nearly colourless substance was now boiled for some time with about ten times its weight of spirit , and filtered whilst hot through a vacuum filter .
In this operation it is necessary to use a hot-water funnel , as , otherwise , the crystals which separate soon choke up the filter .
The filtered solution , which should be boiled until clear , on cooling , deposits a large amount of crystals , which evidently consist of a mixture of two substances , one forming lustrous'prisms , the other feathery tufts of minute flattened needles .
These two substances can be easily separated mechanically by elutriation , the comparatively large prisms of picrorocellin , from their size and weight , rapidly sinking to the bottom of the solution , whilst the light feathery tufts of the other compound remain suspended .
One or two recrystallizations from spirit generally suffice to purify the former ; but if they have any green tinge , it is necessary to treat them previously with boiling benzine in order to remove the trace of chlorophyl to which the colour is due .
The new compound crystallizes in long prismatic crystals of considerable lustre , which are moderately soluble in boiling spirit , slightly soluble in ether and benzine , but almost insoluble in water , petroleum , and carbon bisulphide .
It melts at 192'-194 ' C. , and when more strongly heated boils and gives off vapours of an oily substance of a pleasant aromatic odour , leaving a small amount of carbonaceous residue .
Cold concentrated sulphuric acid colours it of a deep brown ; but when it is warmed it dissolves , forming a pale yellow solution , from which water precipitates a yellow compound .
If the sulphuric acid solution be heated nearly to its boiling-point , it darkens and gives off sulphurous anhydride the addition of water then gives no precipitate .
It is also soluble in warm nitric acid , and the addition of water causes a yellow precipitate similar in appearance to that produced in the sulphuric acid solution ; the nitric acid solution , when heated , gives off nitrous fumes .
If boiled with dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid for a short time , the picrorocellin is decomposed , a compound , xanthorocellin , being formed which crystallizes from alcohol in long silky needles of a pale yellow colour .
When picrorocellin is distilled with a mixture of dilute sulphuric acid and potassium dichromate , it is decomposed , an oil passing over having the odour of benzoic aldehyde , accompanied by a white crystalline substance .
The latter , after being purified by recrystallization , melted at 121 ' and had the general appearance and properties of benzoic acid , with which it is identical .
It was also found to be oxidized by an acid solution of potassium permanganate , but no odour of bitter-almond oil was observable .
I he substance dried at 100 ' was submitted to analysis , with the following results:\#151 ; 62 Messrs. Stenliouse and Groves on Picrorocellin .
[ May 18 , I. -263 gram substance gave -657 gram carbonic anhydride and *151 gram water .
II .
-178 gram substance gave *444 gram carbonic anhydride and -100 gram water .
III .
-218 gram substance gave *02285 gram ammonia .
IY .
*215 gram substance gave -02219 gram ammonia .
Theory .
I. II .
III .
IV .
Mean .
324 68-21 68-13 68-03 . . . .
68-08 29 6-11 6-38 6-24 , , 6-31 42 8-84 , , . .
8-63 8-50 8-56 0 . .
80 16-84 475 100-00 The numbers obtained from the results of these analyses agree very closely with those required by the formula C27H29N3Os .
As this compound is obtained from a species of R and possesses an exceedingly bitter taste , we purpose calling it picrorocellin .
It is remarkable as being the first crystalline organic substance containing nitrogen which has been found in the lichens .
Occasionally specimens of Rocella are met with which have a comparatively feeble bitter taste ; but hitherto we have been unable to isolate any crystalline compound from them to which this property might be ascribed .
We have not , as yet , examined the second substance crystallizing in minute , difficulty soluble needles , and which accompanies picrorocellin in this lichen , but hope to be able to do so ere long .
We have ascertained , however , that it is not merely a fatty substance of a nature similar to rocellic acid , since on boiling it with a dilute solution of sodic hydrate , benzoic aldehyde appears to be produced .
Xcmthorocellin .
When picrorocellin was heated above its fusing-point it decomposed , the products obtained varying with the temperature .
When strongly heated , water and ammonia were given off , and a brown oily body distilled , which on being put aside for some time deposited crystals .
These , after being separated from the fluid portion and recrystallized two or three times from spirit , formed colourless plates which are moderately soluble in alcohol but insoluble in water .
This substance has been reserved for further investigation .
If , however , instead of subjecting the picrorocellin to destructive distillation it was merely heated for about ten minutes to 220 ' , it gave off water , and the fluid product if poured out and allowed to cool solidified to a resinous-looking mass .
This , when finely powdered and dissolved in about three times its weight of boiling spirit , solidified on cooling to a pulp consisting of long , slender , yellow needles of xanthorocellin .
This sub- 1876 .
] Messrs. Stenhouse and Groves on Picrorocellin .
63 stance may be more conveniently prepared , however , by the action of dilute acids on picrorocellin , the proportions which gave the most satisfactory results being 1 part of picrorocellin to 4 of strong hydrochloric acid and 4 of water .
The mixture was boiled for about 8 hours in a flask furnished with a return condenser , and the product , which still contained some unaltered picrorocellin , was collected , washed , and dissolved in boiling spirit .
On cooling , the xanthorocellin was deposited in slender needles of a pale yellow colour , which amounted to about 70 per cent , of the picrorocellin originally employed .
They were easily purified by two or three crystallizations from boiling spirit .
When dilute sulphuric acid was substituted for the hydrochloric acid , the results obtained were not so good , oily impurities seeming to be formed at the same time .
The compound as prepared by this process is identical with that obtained when picrorocellin is subjected to a temperature of 220 ' in the manner previously described , both substances melting at 183 ' .
Although xanthorocellin could be prepared with tolerable facility by the action of dilute hydrochloric acid on picrorocellin , yet it had the disadvantage that a portion of the latter always remained unattacked ; this was due , no doubt , to its insolubility in the dilute acid .
It seemed possible that this inconvenience might be obviated by employing an alcoholic solution of picrorocellin .
On making the experiment , it was found that when an alcoholic solution of the substance was acidulated with hydrochloric acid and boiled , although xanthorocellin was readily formed , yet in order to recover it , it was necessary to partly distil off the spirit and then precipitate with water ; the product was in this case accompanied with more or less of a tarry matter .
These difficulties , however , were overcome by the use of glacial acetic acid .
Picrorocellin dissolved readily in the boiling acid , and if sufficiently concentrated crystallized out again unchanged on cooling .
On adding a drop of hydrochloric acid to the hot colourless solution and again boiling it , it almost instantly became of a yellow colour , and now no longer deposited crystals of picrorocellin when cooled .
The addition of water to this solution immediately produced a precipitate of xanthorocellin .
After numerous trials , the following was found to be the best method of preparing xanthorocellin 10 grams of picrorocellin are dissolved in 15 grams of boiling glacial acetic acid , 6 drops of concentrated hydrochloric acid ai'e added and the whole boiled for 15 minutes in a flask furnished with an inverted condenser .
On allowing it to stand for some lime after it has become cold , it solidifies to a mass of crystals of the xanthorocellin .
These are stirred up with water , thoroughly washed to i emove adhering acid , and then recrystallized from spirit .
The yield in this case was found to be 76 per cent , of the picrorocellin employed , and the alcoholic mother liquors when evaporated left neither tarry residue nor undecomposed picrorocellin .
When dilute sulphuric acid was substituted for the hydrochloric acid in this experiment , the result was very Messrs. Stenhouse and Groves on [ May 18 , similar to that observed with the aqueous acid ; xanthorocellin was formed , but the yield was much smaller , only 56 per cent. , owing , doubtless , to secondary decomposition ; this supposition was corroborated by the fact that the " addition of water to the glacial acetic acid solution precipitated the crude xanthorocellin as a yellow oil , which only crystallized after it had been standing for some short time .
This substance is insoluble in petroleum , and but slightly soluble in hot carbon bisulphide or in ether .
It is moderately soluble in hot benzine , and readily soluble in boiling spirit .
The substance dried at 100 ' gave the following results I. -247 gram substance gave -692 gram carbonic anhydride and T15 gram of water .
II .
*350 gram substance gave -979 gram carbonic anhydride and T71 gram of water .
III .
T60 gram substance gave *450 gram carbonic anhydride and *079 gram of water .
IY .
-261 gram substance gave *02742 gram ammonia .
Y. *240 gram substance gave *02415 gram ammonia .
Theory .
I. 11 .
III .
IV .
Y. 252 76*60 76*44 76*28 76*71 17 5*17 5*17 5*43 5*49 28 8*51 , . . . . .
8*65 8*29 02 . .
32 9*72 329 100*00 These numbers correspond pretty closely with those required by the formula Cl21H17N202 .
When xanthorocellin was boiled for some time with a moderately strong aqueous solution of sodic hydrate , it acquired a yellow colour , but did not appear to dissolve to any great extent .
On collecting this insoluble compound and washing it , first with strong caustic soda and then with a saturated solution of sodium carbonate , a bright yellow powder was left .
This yellow compound , when treated with a small quantity of spirit , to which a few drops of sodium hydrate solution had been added , dissolved only partially , leaving a residue consisting of colourless crystals .
These were readily soluble in water ; and on adding an acid to the solution , a white precipitate was obtained .
The addition of a concentrated solution of sodium hydrate to the clear yellow alcoholic solution immediately produced a yellow precipitate .
It was observed that xanthorocellin dissolved in boiling water to which a drops of a solution of sodium hydrate had been added , and on cooling it crystallized out again apparently unaltered .
If , however , instead of allowing it to cool , strong soda was added to the hot clear solution , a bright yellow precipitate was produced .
A similar precipitate was obtained on heating xanthorocellin with spirit containing a little sodium hydrate in solution , 1876 .
] Messrs. Stenhouse and Groves on Picrorocellin .
65 pouring off the clear liquid from the colourless crystals which were formed , and adding excess of soda .
Xanthorocellin is soluble in warm concentrated sulphuric acid with a brilliant orange-colour ; but on adding water , the substance is precipitated unaltered .
If the acid solution be strongly heated , however , it effervesces slightly , and becomes somewhat darker in colour : the addition of water to this no longer produces a precipitate .
Xanthorocellin dissolves in cold nitric acid , and if water be at once added the substance is precipitated apparently unaltered .
On allowing the nitric acid solution to stand for some time , however , or on gently heating the mixture , decomposition takes place with the formation of new compounds .
These may be more conveniently obtained , however , by the action of nitric acid on the substance dissolved in glacial acetic acid , in the following manner:\#151 ; 5 grams of xanthorocellin were dissolved in 10 c. c. of boiling acetic acid , and the solution rapidly cooled , but without agitation , so as to avoid as much as possible causing the substance to crystallize out ; 5 c. c. of nitric acid ( specific gravity 1*45 ) were then added , the whole thoroughly mixed and gently heated in a water bath until the action had set in .
When this took place , the source of heat v as withdrawn , the heat developed by the reaction being sufficient to cause the liquid to boil ; large quantities of nitrous fumes were given off , and lustrous scales soon began to appear in the liquid .
If , as sometimes happened , the action became too violent and threatened to eject the contents from the flask , it was easily moderated by plunging the latter into cold water for a few seconds .
As soon as the reaction was complete , the contents of the flask were poured into a beaker , and put aside for a few hours ; the solid crystalline mass thus obtained was then thoroughly incorporated with 30 c. c. of spirit , which dissolved nearly every thing except the scales .
The latter were collected on a Bunsen filter , and washed thoroughly with cold spirit , in which they are almost insoluble .
The yield of the new substance is about 35 per cent , of the xanthorocellin originally taken ; it crystallizes in beautifully white hexagonal plates , which do not melt at 275 ' , but begin to undergo decomposition below that temperature .
The spirituous washings from these crystals , obtained when the crude product was treated with alcohol , were allowed to evaporate spontaneously , until the latter had disappeared .
On distilling the residue in a current of steam , some benzoic aldehyde passed over with the aqueous vapour , but no hydrocyanic acid could be detected in the distillate .
The crystalline substance left in the retort appears to be a nitro-acid of high melting-point , totally different in its properties , however , from nitrobenzoic acid .
We hope to be able , at some future time , to examine the products of this interesting reaction more fully .
Action of sodium hydrate on picrorocellin .
When picrorocellin was boiled with three times its weight of spirit , and VOL. XXV .
" 66 Messrs. Stenhouse and Groves on Picrorocellin .
[ May 18 , an aqueous solution of sodium hydrate was gradually added until all the crystals had disappeared , a solution was obtained which , when filtered and rendered acid with acetic acid , deposited crystals of very pure unaltered picrorocellin equal in weight to about half those originally taken .
The alcoholic mother liquors on being evaporated left an oily residue insoluble in water .
It was exceedingly soluble in hot spirit , however ; and the solution , if sufficiently concentrated , deposited colourless crystals of a new substance mixed with more or less picrorocellin .
As from this experiment picrorocellin seemed to be altered by the action of alkalis , a quantity of it was boiled with a concentrated solution of sodium hydrate , when it became evident that it was [ rapidly being changed , and in a few minutes it became red , and fused to an oily mass enclosing crystals of the unaltered substance .
The whole was then allowed to cool ; and after the soda solution had been poured off , the red mass was gently heated with water , which readily dissolved most of it , leaving merely the unattacked picrorocellin .
The addition of sodium hydrate to the deep yellow solution thus obtained threw down a yellowish-red resinous mass , whilst acids caused the formation of a voluminous , almost white precipitate .
This readily aggregated to a plastic mass , which was washed by kneading it in tepid water .
During the action of caustic soda on picrorocellin , a volatile substance is produced having a pleasant aromatic odour .
It was found , however , that the principal product of this reaction could be obtained far more readily , and in a purer state , by operating with dilute solutions of sodium hydrate .
For this purpose 3 parts of solid sodium hydrate were dissolved in 180 to 200 of boiling water , and then 10 parts of finely powdered picrorocellin were added ; the crystals dissolved rapidly in the boiling liquid , ammonia was given off in small quantity , and after about an hour 's digestion the reaction was considered to be complete .
When nearly cold , acetic acid was added to the solution in slight excess ; this produced a glutinous kind of precipitate , which could be moulded under the warm liquid into a stick closely resembling bleached shellac in appearance , being lustrous and silky .
The product was found , however , to be far from pure ; and in order to obtain it in that state , it had to be crystallized successively from alcohol and from carbon bisulphide .
The crude product was therefore digested with two thirds of its weight of boiling spirit until dissolved , and then set aside to cool .
After standing a considerable time , it deposited the new substance in colourless crystals , which were collected on cotton wool on a vacuum filter , washed with a very small quantity of cold spirit , and dried .
These crystals were then boiled with 30 times their weight of carbon bisulphide until dissolved , the solution filtered , and then concentrated to about half its bulk by distillation .
On cooling , the substance crystallized out in large , brilliant , colourless prisms , amounting to from 40 to 45 per cent , of the weight of the picrorocellin originally taken .
These may be rendered 1876 .
] Messrs. Stenliouse and Groves on Picrorocellin .
quite pure by crystallizing them first from a mixture of equal weights of alcohol and water ( 10 parts ) and finally from strong spirit .
Tho crystals , whether prepared by boiling picrorocellin with an aqueous or with an alcoholic solution of sodium hydrate , are identical , both melting at 154 ' C. The fused compound remains quite liquid even when cold ; but on adding a crystalline fragment of the substance it instantly solidifies .
Dried at 100 ' C. and submitted to analysis it gave the following results:\#151 ; I. -287 gram of substance gave '778 gram carbonic anhydride and -175 gram of water .
II .
*193 gram of substance gave '523 gram carbonic anhydride and .113 gram of water .
III .
'280 gram of substance gave '760 gram carbonic anhydride and .169 gram of water .
IY .
'368 gram of substance gave '03264 gram ammonia .
Y. *297 gram of substance gave *02611 gi*am ammonia .
YI .
*243 gram of substance gave *02089 gram ammonia .
Theory .
I. II .
III .
IV .
V. VI .
c21 . .
288 74-04 73-93 73-91 74-03 H25 .
25 6*43 6-78 6-51 6-71 Na . .
28 7*20 . . . . .
, 7*30 7'24 7*08 03 . .
48 12*33 389 100-00 These numbers correspond very closely with the formula C24 H25 N2 Oa .
This compound is almost insoluble in petroleum , and only very slightly soluble in ether , moderately so in boiling benzine .
When strongly heated , it fuses and becomes deep yellow , being converted into xanthoro-cellin .
Nitric acid oxidizes it , benzoic aldehyde being first produced , which , by a continuance of the action , is converted into benzoic acid .
A similar result is obtained when it is treated with chromic-acid mixture .
The crystals dissolve in concentrated sulphuric acid by the aid of a gentle heat , and on adding water a precipitate of xanthorocellin is obtained .
As picrorocellin possessed such an extremely bitter taste , and was , moreover , a nitrogenous compound , it seemed not improbable that it might possess medicinal properties .
It was therefore submitted to our friend Dr. T. Lauder Brunton , F.R.S. , who kindly undertook its examination with especial reference to the possible resemblance between its actions and those of quinine .
He says , " The results may be briefly stated as follows:\#151 ; " 1- The substance when injected under the skin of an animal exerted no perceptible action whatever .
" 2 .
When injected under the skin of a frog it diminished reflex action .
This diminution appeared to be caused in the same way as that 6g Prof. W. C. Williamson on the [ May 18 , effected by quinine , namely by irritation of the inhibitory centres within the head .
' As the whole subject of the action of quinine on the functions of the spinal cord is at present unsettled , too much stress must not be laid on this action of picrorocellin .
" 3 .
When an ethereal solution of picrorocellin is added to an alkaline solution of sulphate of indigo , with blood and ozonized turpentine , in the manner recommended by Binz and employed by him in his researches on quinine , the production of isatin is not in the least retarded , whilst quinine retards it very greatly .
Picrorocellin thus differs from quinine in not arresting oxidation , a most remarkable characteristic of the latter .
\#171 ; j regret that I have been unable to test it chemically in a case of ague , as the patients I see come and go so irregularly that little or no information would be gained by administering it to them .
The sparing solubility of picrorocellin is a serious objection to its use in medicine , even supposing it to have the same properties as quinine ; and as it does not possess one of the most important of these properties , there is no probability that it can ever be used as a substitute for quinine .
" IY .
" On the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures.\#151 ; Part VIII .
Ferns ( continued ) and Gymnospermous Stems and Seeds .
" By Prof. W. C. Williamson , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural History , Owens College , Manchester .
Received May 2 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) Ferns ( continued).\#151 ; Under the name of corrugata a small stem of a fern is described , the outer surface of the bark of which is corrugated with innumerable transverse ridges and furrows .
It has a vascular axis in its centre composed of several clusters of barred vessels filled with tylose , which clusters are blended together at their periphery , forming a cylinder ; its centre is occupied by a cellular medulla , mingled with small vessels , which sends off radiating prolongations into the vascular cylinder , partially separating the bundles of the latter .
Besides this cylinder is a second , smaller , isolated oval bundle , which soon escapes from the stem as the centre of a petiole ; but before it does so a new one is detached from the opposite side of the central cylinder , which , in turn , imitates its predecessor .
Besides these primary bundles , numerous secondary smaller ones are detached , sometimes from the central cylinder , sometimes from near the bases of the petiolar bundles ; these probably supplied rootlets .
The author points out that this fern , along with the Decaisnii and the Zygopteris Brongniarti of M. Renault , constitute a group of ferns having a very distinct type of stem-structure different from what is found in the rhizomes of recent ferns , and which approximates to the lower Lepidodendroirl stems as represented by L. Harcourtii .

