Rules and Principles for determining the dispersive Ratio of Glass ; and for computing the Radii of Curvature for achromatic ObjectGlasses , submitted to the Test of Experiment .
By Peter Barlow , Esq. F.R.S. Mem. Imp .
Ac .
Petrop .
8fC .
Read May 3 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 231 .
] The author begins this paper by an enumeration of the various works on the subject extant in our language , and a general mention of the writings of foreign mathematicians , which he considers as leaving room for further inquiry and simplification .
He then states the method employed in his experiments for determining the refractive and relative dispersive powers of his glasses , the former of which is that generally known and practised ; of measuring the radii and focal length of a lens , and thence deriving the refractive index ; with some refinements in its practical application , consisting chiefly in using the lens as the object-glass of a telescope , and adapting to it a positive eye-piece and cross-wires , which are brought precisely to the true focus by the criterion of the evanescence of parallax arising from a motion of the eye , as is practised in adjusting the stops of astronomical instruments .
The only source of error it involves is in the measurement of radii of the tools which it was found could always be performed within ----th of their whole values .
The dispersive ratio of two glasses was determined by over-correcting the dispersion of a convex lens of the less dispersive glass by a concave of the greater , and then withdrawing the latter from the former till the achromaticity is perfect , or as nearly so as the materials will admit , and measuring the interval between the lenses and their foci , from which data the ratio of their dispersive powers is easily obtained .
The refractive indices and dispersive ratio thus determined , the next step is to find the radii of curvature so as to destroy spherical aberration .
In this investigation , the author does not consider it as necessary to limit the indeterminate problem by any further condition , as others before him have done , but regarding it as a matter of great convenience to avoid contact of the interior surfaces in the centre of the glasses , leaves it open to the optician to make a choice within certain limits , thus avoiding what he considers as an intricate equation arising out of the fourth condition .
He proceeds , therefore , to express analytically the aberrations of the glasses , and to deduce the equation expressive of its destruction , which of course.involves one indeterminate quantity ; this may be either of the radii , or any combination of them .
The author 'chooses the ratio of the , radii of the interior and exterior surfaces of his flint lens for this.indeterminate , which he assumes , as well as may be , to satisfy the condition of the absence of contact and near equi-curvature of the adjacent surfaces ; thence deduces , first , the radii of both of the surfaces of the flint lens ; next , its aberration to be corrected ; and thence , by the solution of a quadratic , or by the use of a table containing its solutions registered in various states of the data , the ratio of the radii of the convex , whence the radii themselves are easily deduced .
Mr. Barlow next inquires into the validity of the empirical rule employed by Mr. Tulley , as stated in Rees 's Cyclopaedia , which in many usual cases he finds to give results nearly agreeing with his own computations ; in others , however , it differs too widely to be depended on .
The author next enters on an experimental inquiry of the limits within which an error in spherical aberration or dispersion may have taken place without producing a sensible defect in the object-glass , by procuring , with the assistance of Mr. Gilbert , glasses to be ground to radii nearly , but not quite agreeing with the results of computation .
It results from them , that in some states of the data and assumed radii , much greater deviations may be borne than in others , and the author considers that such combinations should be preferred as admit the greatest latitude in this respect .
The author concludes this paper by a synoptic statement of a mode of approximate solution applicable ( in consequence of the peculiarity of the formula for the destruction of the spherical aberration ) to all ordinary states of the data , and comprised in a very short and easily calculable form ; and by a method of practically determining the curvatures and indices of refraction of any given convex or concave lens .

