]\gt ; 258 Mr. W. H. L. Russell on [ Jan. 19 , AB .
The outer flat copper case .
C. Plate of amalgamated lead held in grooves in the cap and th ' , slip E. shows the hole in the cap through which the solution is introduced , and by the introduction of a glass tube through this hole the state of the charge is seen by observing the colour ; the interior surface of the case forms the negative , and the amalgamated lead the positive electrode . .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " On certain Definite Integrals No. 10 .
By W. H. L. RUSSELL , F.B.S. Received December 31 , 1881 .
Let Then we find the condition together with the equations\mdash ; when there are three equations connecting the five quantities Under these conditions we shall have\mdash ; ( 220 ) .
In the same way , if we have similarly\mdash ; ' ( 221 ) .
There will be six equations connecting the quantities 1882 .
] Definite lntegrals .
% , , with ; I have not observed that equations lead to an equation of condition between , a2 , This transformation will apply equally well to all integrals of the form\mdash ; ( 222 ) , and ( 223 ) .
If we consider the integrals .
( 224 ) , and . . .
( 225 ) , where is not infinite , as it is in Fresnel 's integrals , we must proceed by expansion .
Let . .
Proceeding in this manner , and remembering that when , we are able to develope and with great facility , and so obtain the integrals .
The following method may be very generally applied .
Let whers is an arbitrary quantity .
Then we shall have\mdash ; ( 226 ) , where . .
The calculation of is very easy .
Form by addition the .
But Mr. Spottiswoode has discovered two conditions , will , I hope , be inserted in the next paper on the subject .
260 Mr. W. H. L. oesell on [ Jan. series Then by a second addition we have , or , . .
foreover , if the series , \amp ; c. .
is convergent , the series , \amp ; c. , is also convergent , ' and if is in the limit less than less than must in the limit be less than Hence if the limits are greater than , and the difference between either of them and small when compared with , we shall have in many cases excellent convergence .
This method of converging to the value of definite rals is useful in dynamical problems .
Another is as follows .
Let . .
then \amp ; c. When is one of the roots of ; call it .
Then Hence . .
But ( 227 ) .
The limits are arbitrary ; but the series evidently equires that should be considerable .
Since 1882 .
] certain Definite Integrals .
261 ' \amp ; c. \amp ; c. , we have , if , .
( 228 ) .
This formula is most useful when is very large , or when ( n ) is very small .
Suppose , then the tenth term is less than ' and after this the terms to diminish , though not so rapidly .
When is very small , we shall come to an integer ( r ) which does not difler sensibly from , and therefore we are able to write the integral:\mdash ; . .
1 .
2 .
3 . . . . .
In the same way we are able find:\mdash ; since ; also . . .
( 231 ) . . . . .
( 232 ) .
We must , however , observe that the functions involving are supposed convergent , whatever the value of , when expanded .
II .
" " Manometric Observations in the Electric Arc By Professor DEWAR , M.A. , F.R.S. Received January 14 , 1882 .
The experiments recorded in my former paper , entitled " " Studies on the Electric .
together with the numerous observations made conjointly with Professor Living on the spectrum of the arc discharge between carbon electrodes in different gases , led me bo ascertain if the interior of the gaseous envelope of the ordinary arc showed any .
pecllliarities of pressure .
Pressure might be caused by the motion of the gas particles , the transit of pole to , electric action , or indirectly by chemical combinations taking place the arc .
As any effect due to the above causes must necessarily be very small , a delicate manometer capable of measuring easily the of a millimetre of water pressure had to be employed .
The records of such an instrument in the prese1lt series of experiments , complicated by the indirect action of the hot currents of air passing the poles , and the irregularities in the steadiness of the arc which undoubtedly cause marked variations of pressure ; yet by muItiplying and varying the conditions of the experlments , it is possible to eliminate these secondary effects and secure reliable resuIts .
The general appearance of the apparatus used is shown in the diagram .
A and are two hollow carbons , similar to those formerly employed in the separation of cyanogen from the arc .
They must be free from all porosity before they can be used in the experiments to be detailed , and the drilled hole should not be less than 3 millims. in diameter .
In order to fill up minute apertures in the carbons , and render them non-porous , they are placed in a porcelain tube and heabed to a white heat in a current of coal-gas saturated with vapour of benzole .
This treatment causes the deposition of a layer of dense metallic carbon over the surface of the tubes which renders them capable of withstanding a considerable interior pressure of air or other gas without exhibiting leakage .
hollow poles are connected by means of tubing * ' ' .
Roy .
Soc vol. 30 , p. 85 .
" " Proc. Roy .
Soc , p. 188 .

