204 Mr. E. A. Min chin .
On the Origin of [ June 13 Cycadese .
The view of their affinities , which we suggest , is that they are derivatives of an ancient generalised race of ferns , from which they have already diverged considerably in the cycadean direction .
Of the two genera , Bet appears to be geologically the more ancient , and certainly stands nearer to the filicinean stock .
Lyginodendron , while retaining conspicuous fern-like characters , has advanced much further on cycadean lines .
This view by no means involves the improbable assumption that these plants were the actual ancestors of existing Cycadeae .
How far their divergence from the fern stock had proceeded cannot be determined until we are acquainted with their orgaus of reproduction .
The existence of a fossil group on the border-land of ferns and Cycads seem3 now to be well established .
Count Solms-Laubach places his Protopitys in this position , which is probably shared by Myeloxylon and Poroxylon .
Messrs. Bertrand and Renault have indeed endeavoured to derive the last-named genus from Lyco-podiaceae , and .have extended the same view to Lyginodendron and Beterangium .
In the latter cases their theory is completely negatived by the organisation of the leaves , and by many structural details .
The relation of the genera which we have described to those ancient gymnospercns , the Cordaitece , will form one of the most interesting palaeobotanical problems of the future .
The paper is illustrated by micro-photographs and by camera-lucida drawings .
IV .
" On the Origin of the Triradiate Spicules of LeucosoleniaP By E. A. MlNCHlN .
Communicated by Professor Lankester , F.R S. Received April 30 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) In Leucosolenia coriacea the youngest spicules are found to be surrounded by six cells , which are similar in all their characters to the cells of the external flat epithelium of the sponge , and undoubtedly derived from this layer .
It appears that three cells of the external epithelium wander inwards , and give rise to six by division of each cell into two , the six cells being arranged in such a way , that three are placed more internally , i.e. , towards the gastral surface of the body wall , and three more externally , towards the dermal surface .
Each of these sets of three cells has a form which might be compared to a trefoil , and the whole mass may be described as two such trefoils superposed , the cells of one trefoil exactly corresponding to those of the other .
The spicule is formed by the three inner cells , a ray being formed 1895.1 theTriradiate Spicules of Leucosolenia .
205 1)V each cell .
In many instances it appears as if the three rays were formed quite separately and afterwards fused at the centre .
The three outer cells soon lose their rounded form , and by throwing out processes , assume an amoeboid appearance .
After the spicule rays have attained a length of 10 or 15 fi , the three outer cells are no more to be found , having apparently rejoined the flat epithelium from whence they came .
The three inner cells alone secrete the rays and / continue to do so until the spicule is full grown .
The spicule rays soon appear to project beyond their formative cells , but are in reality covered by a thin layer of protoplasm .
At the same time , the spicule sheath makes its appearance as a denser layer of substance between the protoplasm of the formative cell and the calcareous spicule , and it is by continued calcification of the sheath that the spicule grows .
The spicule rays attain their full thickness at their bases before they have reached their full length .
The formative cells remain at the bases of the rays until this portion is built up to its full thickness .
Each formative cell then migrates along its ray towards the tip , building up the ray to its full thickness as it goes .
In the fully formed ray the formative cell is found adherent to the extreme tip .
Theoretical considerations .
( 1 .
) The origin of the spicule-forming cells\#151 ; that is to say , of the whole connective tissue system in these sponges\#151 ; from the external flat epithelium , is another nail in the coffin of the so-called mesoderm in these forms .
Sponges are to be regarded as two-layered animals , composed of a dermal and a gastral layer .
The dermal layer is differentiated into ( 1 ) an external flat contractile epithelium , the neuro-mu8cular system , and ( 2 ) an internal connective tissue layer .
The gastral layer consists of the collar cells .
The amoeboid wandering cells are perhaps also to be reckoned with the gastral layer .
( 2 .
) The fact that each ray of a triradiate spicule is formed by a single cell , shows that each triradiate spicule must be regarded as derived from the fusion of three originally separate monactinal spicules .
This supports Schulze 's theory , namely , that the triradiates of the more primitive Ascons have arisen as an adaptation to the structure of the sponge , and goes against Dreyer 's theory that the primitive spicule of all sponges is a tetraxon , a form explained by him as the direct mechanical outcome of the vesicular structure of living bodies .

