On the Phenomena of Volcanoes .
By Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. F.R.S. Read March 20,1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 241 .
] In a paper on the Decomposition of the Earths , published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1812 , the author offered it as a conjecture that the metals of the alkalies and earths might exist in the interior of the globe , and on being exposed to the action of air and water , give rise to Volcanic fire and to the production of lavas ; by the slow cooling of which , basaltic and other crystalline rocks might subsequently be formed .
Vesuvius , from local circumstances , presents peculiar advantages for investigating the truth of this hypothesis ; and of these , the author availed himself during his residence at Naples in the months of December 1819 , and of January and February 1820 .
A small eruption had taken place a few days before he visited the mountain , and a stream of lava was then flowing with considerable activity from an aperture in the mountain a little below the crater , which was throwing up showers of red-hot stones every two or three minutes .
On its issuing from the mountain , it was perfectly fluid , and nearly white-hot ; its surface appeared to be in violent agitation , from the bursting of numerous bubbles , which emitted clouds of white smoke .
There wasno appearance of more vivid ignition in the lava when it was raised and poured out by an iron ladle .
A portion was thrown into a glass bottle , which was then closed with a ground stopper ; and on examining the air in the bottle some time afterwards , it was found not to have lost any of its oxygen .
Nitre thrown upon the surface of the lava did not produce such an increase of ignition as would have attended the presence of combustible matter .
The gas disengaged from the lava , proved on examination to be common air .
When the white vapours were condensed on a cold tin plate , the deposit was found to consist of very pure common salt ; and the vapours themselves contained 9 per cent. of oxygen , the rest being azote , without any notable proportion of carbonic acid or sulphurous acid gases ; altholugh the fumes of this latter gas were exceedingly pungent in the smoke from the crater of the volcano .
On another occasion the author examined the saline incrustations on the rocks near the ancient bocca of Vesuvius , and found them to consist principally of common salt , with some chloride of iron , a little sulphate of soda , a still smaller quantity of sulphate or muriate of potassa , and a minute portion of oxide of copper .
In one instance in which the crystals had a purplish tint , a trace of muriate of cobalt was detected .
Fromn the observations made by the author at different periods , he concludes that the dense white smoke which rose in immense columns from the stream of lava , and which reflected the morning and evening light of the purest tints of red and orange , was produced by the salts which were sublimed with the steam .
It presented a striking contrast to the black smoke , arising from the crater , which was loaded with earthy particles , and which in the night were highly luminous at the moment of the explosion .
The phenomena observed by the author afford a sufficient refutation of all the ancient hypotheses , in which volcanic fires were ascribed to such chemical causes as the combustion of mineral coal or the action of sulphur upon iron , and are perfectly consistent with the supposition of their depending upon the oxidation of the metals of the earths upon an extensive scale in immense subterranean cavities , to which water , or atmospheric air , may occasionally have access .
The subterranean thunder heard at great distances under Vesuvius , prior to an eruption , indicates the vast extent of these cavities ; and the existence of a subterranean communication between the Solfaterra and Vesuvius is established by the fact , that whenever the latter is in an active state , the former is comparatively tranquil .
In confirmation of these views , the author remarks that almost all the volcanoes of considerable magnitude in the old world are in the vicinity of the sea : and in those where the sea is more distant , as in the volcanoes of South America , the water may be supplied from great subterranean lakes ; for Humboldt states that some of these throw up quantities of fish .
The author acknowledges , however , that the hypothesis of the nucleus of the globe being composed of matter liquefied by heat , offers a still more simple solution of the phenomena of volcanic fires .
z

