II .
" On the Production of Vibrations and Sounds by Electrolysis .
" By GEORGE GORE , Esq. Communicated by Professor TYNDALL .
Received November 18 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication , which is a continuation in subject ( but different in title ) of a previous investigation " On the Movements of Liquid Metals and Electrolytes in the Voltaic Circuit , " the author has described the most convenient and effective method of obtaining vibrations and sounds by electrolysis .
The paper contains a full account of the influence of various circumstances upon the vibrations and sounds : viz. , of the electrodes , the electrolyte , -mechanical circumstances and temperature , the electric current , -size and number of voltaic elements , -quantity of the current , -coils of wire in the circuit , -induction coils and iron cores , -electrolytes in the circuit , and of magnetism : also the influence of the vibrating medium itself upon the electric current .
The best liquid for producing the vibrations and sounds consiata of 10 grains of cyanide of mercury and 100 grains of hydrate of potash dissolved in 23 ounces of aqueous hydrocyanic acid containing 5 per cent. of anhydrous acid .
The vibrations and sounds occur only at the surface of the negative mercury electrode , as already described ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. No. 44 , page 177 ) ; and out of a large number of liquids examined , the only ones in which phonetic vibrations occurred were solutions of alkaline cyanides containing dissolved mercury ; and these only give the sounds with electrodes ( or at least a cathode ) of mercury , not with solid metals nor with fused alloys .
The vibrations and sounds vary considerably according to the size and number of the voltaic elements ; with a few elements of large surface , the vibrations were small and the sounds high , and with many elements of small surface they were much larger and the tone lower .
The most suitable number of elements to produce them is either two of Grove 's or five of Smee 's .
The interposition of a coil of stout copper wire in the circuit made the vibrations wider and the sound more base ; and if an iron core was suddenly thrust into the axis of the coil , they became still wider and the sounds still more base , and remained so as long as the iron continued there ; but if a secondary coil containing a great length of fine copper wire surrounded the primary coil ( with or without an iron core ) , and the ends of the secondary wire were suddenly united , the vibrations instantly became narrower and the sounds more high , and remained so as long as the secondary circuit was closed .
The vibrations of the mercury and electrolyte make the electric current which produces them sensibly intermittent , similar to the influence of a vibrating coil-hammer ; and they may be used to some extent in a similar way to that instrument to produce shocks , &amp;c. by means of a secondary coil .
A strong electro-magnet placed in various positions near the locality of the vibrations had no perceptible influence upon them .
The author considers the vibrations to be of electro-chemical origin , and to result from an attraction between the mercury of the negative electrode and the mercury of the electrolyte .
He supposes that to produce the vibrations , either the voltaic force itself must be of an intermittent nature , or the resistance opposed to that force by the liquids employed must be intermittent , and intends to make the

