III .
" On the Impact of Compressible Bodies , considered with reference to the Theory of Pressure .
" By R. MooN , M.A. , Honorary Fellow of Queen 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Prof. J. J. SYLVESTER .
Received April 22 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) Suppose that we have two rigid cylinders of equal dimensions , which have their axes in the same straight line ; suppose , also , that one of the cylinders is at rest while the other moves towards the first with the velocity V in a direction parallel to both the axes ; the consequence of the collision which under such circumstances must take place , will manifestly be that half the momentum of the moving cylinder will be withdrawn from it , and will be transferred to the cylinder which originally was at rest .
The mode in which velocity or momentum will thus be collected from the different parts of the one cylinder , and distributed amongst those of the other , is obvious .
Exactly the same amount will be withrawn from the velocity of each particle of the impinging cylinder , and exactly the same amount of velocity will be impressed on each particle of the cylinder struck .
And the reason of this is equally obvious ; since , if such were not the case , the particles of each cylinder would contract-a supposition which is forbidden by the very definition of rigidity .
But if , instead of being perfectly rigid , each cylinder is in the slightest degree compressible , a variation in the effect will occur .
As before , momentum of finite amount will be transferred from the one cylinder to the other , but the mode of collection of the velocity withdrawn from the one , and the mode of distribution of that injected into the other , will no longer be the same as before .
411 In order that the moving cylinder may not be reduced to absolute rest by the collision , it is obvious that the cylinder originally at rest , or a portion of it , must be moved out of the way , so as to allow of the continuance , even in a modified degree , of the other 's motion ; and this can only be effected on the terms of a transference of velocity or momentum taking place from the one cylinder , or part of it , to the other cylinder , or part of it .
But when the cylinders are compressible , we are freed from two conditions which obtain when the cylinders are rigid .
In the first place , it is no longer necessary to suppose , neither should we be justified in assuming , that the velocity abstracted from each particle of the impinging cylinder , or transferred to each particle of the cylinder struck , is the same ; on the contrary , all experience tells us that , in bodies susceptible to compression , compression is always produced by collision ; in other words , that variation of velocity , in the parts about which the collision takes place , is the immediate and invariable concomitant of collision .
In the second place , when the cylinders are compressible , it is no longer essential to suppose that the effect of the collision will be to withdraw velocity from every particle of the impinging cylinder , and to impart velocity to every particle of the cylinder struck .
Undoubtedly such may be the case if the cylinders are short , if they are possessed of only a moderate degree of rigidity , and if the velocity before impact of the impinging cylinder is considerable .
But if the cylinders be long , while the velocity of the impinging cylinder is of moderate amount , the contrary may occur .
The condition that the cylinder originally at rest shall not oppose an immediate insurmountable barrier even to the modified motion of the other may , obviously , be sufficiently satisfied if a motion of contraction is imparted by the collision to a definite portion of the second cylinder .
But when the cylinders are compressible , equally as when they are rigid , the collision must cause the instantaneous abstraction of velocity or momentum , either from the whole of the impinging cylinder , or from a definite part of it , and the instantaneous communication of the velocity so withdrawn , either to the whole of the cylinder struck , or to a definite part of it .
We have hitherto assumed the velocity of each particle of the impinging cylinder to have been originally uniform .
Let us now suppose , however , that immediately before impact a counter velocity of variable amount is impressed on the different parts of the impinging body , so that , at the instant of impact , before taking account of the effect of collision , the velocity at any point of the impinging body may be expressed by VV1 ; where V is constant , but V1 has the value zero at the surface of collision , and thence gradually increases as we recede towards the other extremity of the cylinder , so that V-V1 , which expresses the velocity of the impinging cylinder before impact , has its greatest value at the surface of collision , and diminishes as we recede therefrom .
It is clear that , in the case we are now considering , the collective momentum abstracted from the impinging cylinder by the collision will be less , and finitely less , than that which was abstracted by the collision in the former case , in which the velocity of each particle of the impinging cylinder was supposed uniform and equal to V. For , if M be the momentum lost by collision when the velocity before impact is uniform and equal to V , it is clear that when the velocity before impact is represented by Y-V1 , the quantity V1 may be such that the momentum before impact may be finitely less than M ; from which it follows inevitably that the amount of momentum lost by collision in this latter case must be less than MV .
Let us now vary the data by supposing that the velocity before impact increases instead of diminishes as we recede from the surface of collision ; so that at the moment of impact , before taking account of the effects of collision , the velocity at any point of the impinging cylinder is represented by V+V , instead of V-V , .
It is clear that the momentum abstracted by the collision in this latter case will be greater , and finitely greater , than in the case where the velocity before impact is uniform and equal to V. Let the additional momentum abstracted in this case be M1 , the whole monmentum so abstracted being represented by f +1-M1 .
Let us now make a final variation in the conditions of the problem , by supposing that at the moment of impact , and irrespective of the impact , a velocity equal and opposite to V is communicated to each particle of the impinging cylinder , so that at that instant , without taking account of any action of the one cylinder upon the other , the velocities of the two cylinders along their surfaces of contact will be equal , or , rather , will be alike zero ; at the same time that at every other point of the impiningi cylinder there will be a variable velocity V1 increasing in amount as we recede from the surface of contact .
In estimating the effect of the cylinders being in contact under the circumstances last described , it is clear that the abstraction from each particle of the impinging body of the velocity V can only be regarded as preventing the transference to the second cylinder of so much of the momentum M +-M , as that velocity , if it had constituted the entire velocity before impact of the impinging body , would have given rise to , viz. M ; and that the momentum M , whose appearance in the expression M+ Ml is due to the fact of the first cylinder having been originally endowed with the variable velocity V , in addition to the constant velocity V , will still continue to be transmitted to the second cylinder from the first .
We are thus led to this singular and , doubtless , pregnant conclusion , that in a continuous material system in which there is neither discontinuity of velocity nor discontinuity of density , all the consequences of collision may occur , viz. the instantaneous transmission of a finite amount of momentum from one part of the system to another , provided we have discontinuity in the tendency to compression in the different parts of the system .
The author has endeavoured , in former communications to the Royal Society , to show that when the velocity in a fluid diminishes in the direction to which the motion tends , the slower particles will offer a resistance to the motion of the faster particles , which the received theory fails to take into account .
The foregoing speculation goes to prove that the circumstance of the surfaces of contact of contiguous elements of the fluid having the same velocity , constitutes no objection to the reality of such resistance .

