]\gt ; Solution for High-Angle Fire .
By Prof. A. N. WHITEHEAD , F.R.S. , Imperial College of Science and ( Received November 20 , 1917 .
) The point of the methods is the reduction of the calculation of the path of a shell in -angle fire to processes which can be either .
graphically constructed or calculated , once and for all , the results applying to all trajectories and shells of any ballistic constant .
It is assumed that the ] of is largely empirical , and is not to be reduced to any neat mathematical formula .
Furthermore he variation of the density of the atmosphere is taken account of , and its dependence on the is assumed to be given by some empirical formula .
Let be the weight of the projectile , its velocity , the between 1 its direction of motion and the horizontal , viz. , for the shell ascending .
and for the shell descending .
The resistance of the air is , being the ballistic constant of the shell , corrected for the state of the atmosphere .
Thus will vary slowly as height ( y ) changes .
esolving tangentially and normally , equations become ( 1 ) Put Thell will be called the " " ' at time , and the hyperbolic elevation V0L .
XCIY .
S02 Prof A. N. Whitehead .
Eliminate and .
between equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , obtaining .
( 3 ) Let be the density of the atmosphere at the position of the shell .
Then we can put , ( 4 ) where is a constant depending on the special and on the dard projectile and standard state of the atmosphere .
We assume that is some function .
Thus ( 3 ) caIl be written Also it is eas to prove that ations dunctions oassuming given ioceed method bgiven a conditions .
can be determined .
The point of the method is that it proceeds by the use of five curves , the same for all projeotiles and all traje.ctories .
These curves can , therefore , be reproduced once for all on suitably arranged sheets of the proper dimensions .
The actual construction required to find a series of values of proceeding by small given differences , is such as to make a very moderate demand on a skilled draughtsman .
The five curves are , When ( or ) is positive , the shell is ascending ; when is ative , the shell is descending .
It may , perhaps , be convenient for the draugbtsman to treat the latter case separately .
Then , equations ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) become , ( 6 ) ( 7 ) ff Solution for Iligh-Angle Fire .
303 DIAGRAM ] .
In Quadrant ( 1 ) the curve is drawn , also ON QN OI being ative ) .
The point ou OY is determined from the second quadrant ( as explained below ) , so that OM .
Then , in Quadrant ( 1 ) , is parallel to NM .
Thus In Quadrant ( 2 ) the curves and are so drawn that the horizontal axis in this quadrant acts both as axis of and axis of .
Then , on the horizontal axis , OB Prof. A. N. Whitehead .
On the vertical axis , , and is parallel to In the curve is drawn , so that the horizontal axis is the axis of , as in Quadrant ( 2 ) for one of the curves .
Thus In Quadrant ( 4 ) , is the point , where Then is drawn parallel to LI , to meet the vertical through , where ON ' , and is assumed to be negative , as will be the case .
Thus of equation ( 6 ) , corresponds to , when becomes .
Then , working backwards , is determined in , and thence , so that Hence , corresponding to , is determined .
Diagram II gives the graphical construction to determine in terms of , starting from the given simultaneous set .
The quadrants are used separately as in I , but only two quadrants are now required , which ( on the same plan as in Diagram I ) are numbered Quadrant ( 1 ) and Quadrant ( 4 ) respectively .
DIAGRAM II .
In Quadrant ( 1 ) the curves and are so drawn that the horizontal axis in this quadrant acts as the axis of for the former curve , and as the axis of for the latter curve .
Graphical Solution for High-Angle Fire .
Then on the horizontal axis , OI , and ON , ON ' negative in figure .
Qn the vertical axis OQ ' and is determined by drawing ) to IQ ' On the horizontal axis produced backwards OI ' In Quadrant ( 4 ) , is the point , and is drawn parallel to , to meet the vertical in the point , which is Thus have ow been determined in terms of .
The procedure can be repeated , from ( and so on indefinitely .
It is evident that it will not be necessary for a skilled draughtsman to draw many ( or , indeed , any ) of the straight lines which are here drawn the purposes of explanation .
It will be noted that the effect of on air-resistance is taken into account in each step of the construction , and there is out into zones .
The effect of different states of the atmosphere on different days might be allowed for by choosing a sufficient number of such typical states and issuing different sets of skeleton sheebs , each set to the form of the curve which belongs to that state of atmosphere for which that set of sheets is to apply .
Finally we note the form taken by the equation iving the dissipation of energy into the atmosphere , namely , .
( 8 ) By this graphical method and have been tabulated in terms of .
The remaining elements of the path are given by .
( 9 ) These quadratures can be effected either graphically as above , or by any other suitable method of approximation .
Also is given by equation ( 7 ) above .
If a closer approximation is desired by an analytical method , we can proceed by using the raphical method as a rapid first approximation .
It must be remembered that the whole point of any procedure , analytical raphical Solution for High-Angle Fire .
graphical , is to reduce the solution as far as possible to processes which can be tabulated ( or drawn ) once and for all , suitable for all projectiIes and all paths .
Write ?
for the horizontal velocity , so that .
Resolving horizontally and normally Then [ cf. equations ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) ] .
( 10 ) For a certain range of relatively low values of , approximately ; for a certain of values of , approximately ; for the intermediate range , no one value of will give approximately .
But , by dividing the whole range of important ities for gun fire into a sufficient number of ranges , we can for each find a value of , say , , which to sufficient accuracy allows us to write to , These values of and can be found from the empirically constructed tables for by the method of least squares .
Thus , if , and Npq be the number of tabulations within the to , The deCerJnination of each range can be effected once and for all .
With this value for to .
( 11 ) TheIl cquation ( 10 ) becomes .
( 12 ) The integration on left-hand side of ( 12 ) can be extracted from tables for the function , which is already tabulated in the text-books .
The Lommel-Weber Thus the only operation special to the path is the calculation of the right : hand side of ( 12 ) .
Now is determined as a function of by the preceding graphical method .
Accordingly within each range to or portion of such can be calculated by any convenient method of quadrature .
Thus ( and r ) are determined as functions of , and all the elements of the path ( viz. , are determined in terms of The Function and its to the Problem of Electric on Thin By J. B. AIPEY , M.A. , D.Sc .
Communicated Prof. Nicholson , Received December The function defined by the integral when is an integer , by , is osely related , which was first given by Bessel under the form The function , of less importance in its application than the function , occurs in a number of problenls in mathematical physics , more especially those relating to the interference and diff.raction of sin elnployed by in the problem of the reaction of the air on a vibrating circular plate , and by H. in the theory of action in .
H. applied the function and , in addition , found a nnlnber of interesting properties of , .
the ecurrence formula the development in serieh of and powers of the Lord Rayleigh , ' Theoly of Sound , ' vol. 2 , , equation ( 6 ) . .
Struve , " " Theory der Diffraction an Fernrohren de ) .
Physik und emie , ' } , p. 1013 .
H. F. Weber , " " Die wahre Theory der Fresnel'schen ' Vierteljahrsschrift der Natnrforschenden Gesellschaft iirich , ' vol. 24 , p. 48 .

