153 j Cyanogenesis Plants .
Wee arterial trunk in its continuity does not find , on clearing the vessel of its sheath with the point of his knife , that he is dealing with a body that swells at every pulse , but with ope of unvarying dimensions .
" Experimenting on the metacarpal artery ( horse ) with the circulation going on , he found that transverse measurements with suitable callipers showed no change as long as the limb was kept in any one position .
" Cyanogenesis in Plants .
Part II.\#151 ; The Great Millet , Sorghum vidgare:'* By Wyndham E. Dunstan , M.A. , E.E S. , Director of the Scientific Department of the Imperial Institute , and T. A. Henry , D.Sc .
Lond. Eeceived April 24 , \#151 ; Eead May 15 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) The authors have investigated the nature of the poison contained in the young plants of Sorghum vidgare , the Great Millet or Guinea Corn ( the Judr of India or Dhurra shirshabi of Egypt ) .
This plant is cultivated in tropical countries for the sake of the seed , which is important as a food grain .
The young plants have proved fatal to animals , especially in Egypt , where the attention of the authors was directed to the subject by Mr. E. A. Floyer , of Cairo , who has kindly provided the material required for the investigation .
The authors show that the young plant , but not the seeds or old plants , when crushed with water furnishes prussic acid ( about 0'2 per cent , of the dried plant ) .
The acid is not present in the free state , nor is it produced by acting on the plant with boiling water or with alcohol .
The production of the poison is due to the action of a hydrolytic enzyme , apparently identical with the emulsin of bitter almonds on a cyanogenetic glucoside which has been named " dhurrin , from the Arabic name for the plant , " dhurra .
" This glucoside has been proved to be derived from parahydroxymandelic nitrile by the association of the residue of one molecule of dextrose .
Its formula is therefore C14H17O7N , yOC6Hn05 1 CH\lt ; \CN * The authors ' previous paper , entitled " The Nature and Origin of the Poison of Lotus arabicus " ( 'Proceedings , ' vol. 67 , 1900 , p. 224 ; vol. 68 , 1901 , p. 374 ; and 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 194 , 1901 , p. 515 ) , is to be regarded as Part I of this series .
Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Continuity of [ Apr 18 Dhurrin crystallises well , and is soluble in both water and alcohol When hydrolysed by emulsin or by dilute acids it is converted into parahydroxybenzaldehyde , dextrose , and hydrocyanic acid accord ing to the equation C14H1707N + H20 .
C7H602 + C6H1206 + HCN When warmed with alkalis , dhurrin is resolved first into dhurrinic acid and ammonia This acid subsequently undergoes further hydro lysis when warmed with dilute hydrochloric acid , being converted into parahydroxymandelic acid and dextrose ( 1 ) CijHt70'7N + HoO \#151 ; Ci4H1809 + NH3 , ( 2 ) Ci4H1809 + H20 = C8H804 + C6H1206 .
' The identity of the parahydroxymandelic acid was established by its synthesis from the cyanhydrin of parahydroxy benzaldeHyde .
Dhurrin differs from the other two known cyanogenetie glucosides the amygdalin of bitter almonds and the lotusin found by the authors in Lotus arabicus , in being derived from dextrose and not from maltose .
The authors point out the protective purpose served by the existence of the cyanogenetic glucoside in the young plant .
The authors intend to fully investigate the several problems which are raised by the occurrence of cyanogenetic glucosides in plants .
They are at present engaged in examining several other plants which have furnished prussic acid , among them being Manihot sima , Lmum usitatissimum , Lotus australis , and Phaseolus lunatus .
" On the Continuity of Effect of Light and Electric Radiation on Matter .
" By Jagadis Chunder Bose .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received April 18 , \#151 ; Read June 20 , 1901 .
Introduction .
Though the theory of coherence gives a simple explanation of many cases of diminution of resistance in a mass of metallic particles under electric radiation , yet there are other cases which are not explicable by that theory .
If coherence be due to electric welding , it would follow that all sensitive particles would exhibit a permanent diminution of resistance ; in other words , the action should be non-discrimi-native and there should , be no self-recovery .
In my previous paper , * however , I have shown that the effect of radiation is by no means non-discrimmative .
To the contrary , while its effect on the positive class of substances , e.g. , Mg .
Fe.Ni , is a diminution of resistance , it acts on the negative class , e.g. , K.Ag'.Br .
I , in a precisely opposite way , that is to \#174 ; ay\gt ; R produces in these an increase of resistance .
Further , the conduc# On Electric Touch and Molecular Changes produced in Matter by Electric Waves , ' ' *\#166 ; Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 .

