IX .
Part of a Letter from Mr. B. Sherman to Dr. Hans Sloane , R. S. Sec. concerning the Bones of a dead Faetus , taken out of the Uterus of a Cow ; and of a Callus that supplied the Loss of Part of the Os Femoris .
SIR , You will receive with this a Curiosity which I thought might not be unacceptable to you ; it is the Bones of a Calf that perished in the Uterus of its Dam after the following manner , as I had the Account from the Person who sold the Cow to the Butcher .
The Cow was very unthristy , for which they gave her Cow Physic , and such Drinks as they apprehended proper for her ; notwithstanding which she grew worse , and continued a great while in a lean , pining , wasting Condition , and was reduced to so weak a State , that they concluded she would dye ; when on a sudden she began to eat her Meat , and did thrive so very fast , that in Six or Eight Months she was so fat as to be Sold to the Butcher ; who , when he killed her , found these Bones in her Uterus , just as you~ will see them in the Box , full as dry , there being no manner of Moisture in the Bag ( as he called ~it ) in which the Bones were contained .
The same Digestive Humour , which dissolved the Skin and Muscular Parts of the Calf , might ( I presume ) reasonably enough be supposed to dissolve the Cartilages , and ( for ought I know ) even part of the Bones in a Faetus .
I am pretty sure what I send you is all the Butcher found , and I believe you will find them complete ; but of what Age the Faetus was , or whether , if the Cow had not been killed , there would have been a total Dissolution , I must leave to your more curious Judgment to determine .
I am informed by some Physicians to whom I have shown these Bones , that there are many such Instances in Anatomical Writers ; and particularly one of a Woman , whose Faetus dissolved so perfectly , that some of the Bones digested through her Abdomen , and ( which I think is more strange ) that the same Woman had Children afterwards .
Whether these Bones would in time have made their way through the Abdomen of the Cow , I am not able to judge ; all I can assure you is , That these Bones were found as is above expressed , and that the Fact may be proved by Witnesses of undoubted Credit .
POSTSCRIP T. I Could not omit to subjoyn an Observation in my own Practice , which also may not be unworthy your Observation ; It is of a Compound Fracture , which happened on the Thigh of a Young Man about Seventeen : venteen : I was obliged to take out the whole Substance of Os femoris about Two Inches ; and yet , by keeping a due Extension , Nature did in four Months supply such a Callus , that the Part is not a quarter of an Inch shorter than the other side ; and the Person is as strong as ever , and walks without any Lameness .
keldon near Witham in Essex , September 4 .
1708 .
Yours , &amp;c. B. Sherman .
LONDO N : Printed for H. Clements , at the HalfMoon in St. Paul 's Church-Yard .
1709 .

