[ 629 ] XVII .
On a new Genus of Amphipod Crustaceans .
Rudolph von Willemoes-Suhm , Ph. D. , Naturalist to the 4 Challenger ' Communicated hy Dr. Wyville Thomson .
Received February 27 , \#151 ; Read March .
6 , 1873 .
Leaving Gibraltar on the 26th of January , 1873 , H.M.S. ' Challenger ' proceeded in a south-westerly direction , and on the 28th the trawl was sent down , in lat. 85 ' 47 ' , long .
8 ' 23 ' , to a depth of 1090 fathoms , the temperature of the surface being 15'*55 C. , and that of the bottom 2'*66 C. The haul was an uncommonly rich one ; for , besides three species of fishes and many very interesting Echinoderms , a species of Euplectella was brought up and a large transparent animal , which we at first thought might be the larva of one of the higher Crustaceans .
Two enormous faceted eyes occupying the whole upper part of the head , and the presence of what seemed clearly to be an ovary , negatived , however , that supposition ; and at Professor Wyville Thomson 's request I made a closer examination of this animal , which was evidently of great interest in many respects .
The specimen is almost entirely transparent .
Its length is 84 millims. and its greatest breadth 21 millims. The body consists of three parts :\#151 ; 1 .
The , with one pair of antennae in front , two contiguous faceted eyes occupying the whole of its upper surface , and the mouth situated at the posterior part of the under surface .
2 .
The thoracic region , composed of six segments , bearing two pairs of maxillipeds , five pairs of ambulatory legs , and three pairs of branchiae .
The second pair of maxillipeds and the first pair of ambulatory legs are on the second thoracic segment , which , as we shall see hereafter , may probably be formed by the fusion of two segments .
We also remark the vulva on the under surface of the first segment .
3 .
The , which consists of five segments , three bearing pairs of pedes , and the fourth and fifth the caudal appendages and the anus .
An elevated line running along the dorsal aspect of the thoracic and abdominal regions divides them longitudinally into a right and a left half .
The Head.\#151 ; The upper surface of the head is entirely occupied by two contiguous faceted eyes , which are separated from one another by a mesial line , 20 millims. in length ( Plate XLIX .
figs. 2 \amp ; 3 ) .
Each eye is 13 millims. in width , and its anterior and lateral borders are limited by a slightly coloured band , which will be referred to when considering the structure of the eyes .
The posterior border nearly corresponds with the posterior border of the head , which arches gently over to the first segment of the thoracic region .
The anterior border of the head is transverse and nearly straight , running out at either side into a spine , which is the first and largest of a series of twelve spines bordering the outer edge of the head-shield .
The mouth ( Plate XL1X .
fig. 1 , o)is a very small opening on a round papilla placed near the posterior edge of the lower surface of the head .
It is covered by a pair of rudimentary maxillae , with a sort of labium between them , and by two pairs of maxillipeds ( Plate XLIX .
fig. 1 , mx ) .
A groove , the borders of which are adorned by series of one larger and five smaller teeth , runs backwards to the mouth along the middle line of the lower surface of the head .
Fig. 3 gives a lateral view of the under surface , which is more easily understood from a figure than from the description .
At the frontal border , separated by a distance of about 7 millims. , there are two antennae 26 millims. long .
The antennae consist of two elements , of which the proximal is longer than the distal , which is enlarged at the end , and bears a very small recurved claw .
The Thoracic region consists of six segments .
The first of these bears the smaller pair of maxillipeds , and shows on its inferior surface an elevation , which is the genital papilla .
The second segment is wider than the first , and bears two pairs of appendages\#151 ; the longer maxillipeds and the first pair of ambulatory legs , which are more slender than the other four pairs , and have the proximal joint not so strongly denticulated ; they are also inserted a little within the other four pairs , and they were held by the animal ( which was still living when brought up ) in the characteristic position of the accessory legs of the pycnogonid The eggs , which in this case are not held by the two rudimentary lamellse near the vulva , were attached to these legs .
The next four segments of the thoracic region bear each one pair of ambulatory legs , making , along with the pair on the second thoracic segment , five pairs in all .
Of these the third pair is the longest ; this is followed in length by the fourth , then comes the second , then the fifth , and finally the first .
The length of the longest limb is 69 millims. The legs consist of four joints , showing denticulations and hairs .
At the point of attachment of the proximal joint to the body no coxa can be distinguished .
The leg is inserted into the thoracic segment , in the same manner as in Phronima .
In the limbs of the third , fourth , and fifth pairs the proximal joint is terminated distally by a large spine .
The second joint is very small in the limbs of the first pair , and still smaller in those of the fifth .
In the limbs of the fifth pair the third joint is also remarkable , as it bears at its distal end a large tuft of straight hairs ; and the fourth is more enlarged than the corresponding joint of the other limbs , and terminates in a stronger and more recurved claw .
In Phronima the fifth pair of ambulatory legs , which corresponds with the third pair in the present form , presents the same modification .
The enlarged distal terminations of the limbs and of the antennee are not , like the remaining part of the appendages , transparent , but are of a milk-white colour , produced , I believe , by glands in their interior analogous to the glands in the enlarged claw of Phronima .
To the bases of the second , third , and fourth pairs of legs three pairs of gills are attached .
The Abdomen consists , as in Phronima , of five segments , the first three of which bear NEW GENUS OF AMPHIPOD CRUSTACEANS .
pairs of abdominal feet , consisting of a quadrate basal joint , to which are attached two feathered appendages .
These are followed by two segments , to each of which are attached a pair of appendages , the four forming together the tail .
Each of these appendages is bifurcate with a sharp and a rounded point .
The rounded termination is milk-white , and is separated from the main piece of the appendage by an articulation .
The anus is situated at the end of the last segment .
The Muscular System.\#151 ; The animal is so transparent that all the main muscles are clearly visible ; but they do not seem to present any thing very remarkable , with the exception of those of the thoracic legs , which are only very weakly developed .
From this I suppose that the movements of the animal are not very rapid when it is obliged to walk over the sea-bottom .
It may be , however , that , like Phronima , it makes but little use of these legs , and swims by aid of the abdominal feet only ; these also are very small in relation to the size of the body .
The Nervous System.\#151 ; The transparency of the body makes it possible likewise to distinguish clearly the cephalic ganglion and the ventral chain , consisting of five thoracic and three abdominal ganglia ( Plate XLIX .
fig. 1 ) .
The cephalic ganglion is situated in the anterior part of the head , more on the dorsal than on the ventral side ; it is 3*50 millims. in width , and is horseshoe-shaped with pointed ends .
From the middle of its anterior margin two large nerves run straight to the end of the antennae , while from the opposite side two commissural cords run backwards , traversing the head and , after having encircled the mouth , uniting with the first thoracic ganglion .
The nerves passing from the sides of the cephalic ganglion are all employed as ocular nerves to supply the huge compound eyes .
Those of the anterior end are better seen , as they go to the anterior part of the eyes , while those of the posterior end seem to go to the posterior parts .
The first thoracic ganglion is seated just underneath the ovary in the second segment , and sends out the nerves for the mouth and for the genital organs .
The two cords then separate till they are united again in the third segment in the second ganglion ; thence they rim backwards in a single chain and form a ganglion in each of the subsequent segments , sending nerves to the legs .
Altogether we find five thoracic ganglia for six segments , and in the abdomen three ganglia for five segments .
The last ganglion of the abdomen is more slender than the preceding ones , and seems to send out nerves in different directions , especially to the anus and caudal appendages .
In Phronima there are ten pairs of ganglia , five of which , as in the present case , are thoracic and five abdominal .
The Eyes are contiguous , the line separating them being , however , clearly visible : the length of this line is 20 millims. The eyes thus occupy a rectangular space , the outer edges of which are separated from the spiny borders of the head-shield by a space 6 millims. in width .
At the front of the head there is a space of 3 millims. between their anterior borders and the line into which the two antennae are inserted .
Along the sides of the eyes there is a brownish line produced by elongated chitinous appendages , 0T40 millim. long ( Plate L. fig. 8 ) , attached irregularly to the borders of the cornea .
These appendages are hollow tubes pointed and closed at the top , and flattened and slightly denticulated at the base .
The cornea of the eye is faceted externally , the facets being hexagonal ( Plate L. fig. 7 ) .
Beneath the facets we find very elegant slender crystalline bodies , 0'840 millim. long , and at the top 0T47 millim. broad ( Plate L. figs. 9 , 9 a ) .
I have figured two pairs of these , as they are always united together by their slender ends , the point of union being shown at fig. 9 In their upper part a granulation is to be seen , giving them , a slightly brownish colour ; and in their tapering extremities there are some clear vesicles , which have some resemblance to the varicosities of a nerve-fibre .
The nerve-rods which are present in are absent in this form , and there is no pigment .
It is impossible to say whether organs of hearing or of touch exist , as it was not practicable to dissect the single specimen we procured in order to examine the different parts under the microscope .
The Organs op Digestion and the parts of the Mouth.\#151 ; The opening of the mouth ( Plate L. fig. 6 , o ) is oval , and is situated on the top of an elevation ( Plate L. fig. 6 , A ) at the base of the head .
It is usually closed by a pair of very small denticulated maxillae ( fig. 6 , ma ) , and between them a labium ( fig. 6 , lab ) in the form of a small denticulated plate .
Other maxillae are entirely wanting ; they are physiologically represented by two pairs of maxillipeds , which must be regarded morphologically as two pairs of ambulatory legs transformed for that purpose .
Their relations become apparent on comparison with Phronima .
These maxillipeds ( Plate XLIX .
fig. 1 , mx ) consist of two joints , and are terminated by a pair of claws .
The external margin of the second joint is denticulated .
The first pair of maxillipeds is attached to the first segment of the thorax , and the second larger pair to the second segment , to which is also attached the first pair of ambulatory legs .
I therefore think that this larger second segment has arisen from the fusion of two segments .
The small mouth leads into a large slightly yellowish stomach , through a recurved oesophageal passage , in which there seems to be a chitinous layer , as a dark spot is to be seen there from the outside .
The walls of the stomach ( Plate XLIX .
fig. 3 , cae ) are striated and probably muscular .
The stomach appears to be csecal , and the particles of food brought into it must return in order to get into the intestinal tube , which opens from the oesophagus and runs as a thick-walled tube over the right side of the ovary ( fig. 3 , in ) .
Its walls then become thinner and nearly transparent , so that only its reddish contents showed me the remainder of the tube running straight to the anus ( figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , as ) , to which muscular fibres , forming a sort of constrictor , are attached on both sides .
This configuration of the digestive system is in many respects similar to that in Phronima ; the external parts of the mouth , however , bear but little resemblance to those in that genus .
In Phronima there are one pair of mandibles , two pairs of maxillae , and a labium ; while of these we have here only the labium and one pair of maxillae .
In Phronima the two first pairs of ambulatory legs have no relations to the mouth as they have in this case .
NEW GENUS OF AMPHIPOD CRUSTACEANS .
The dark spot which we have pointed out in the oesophagus appears to answer to what Claus calls the " dental plates " in Phronima ; and the caecal appendage which he describes in that animal has , in the present species , assumed so large dimensions as to have replaced the stomach , which does not exist morphologically , but is physiologically represented by the caecum .
Circulation and Respiration.\#151 ; While the animal was alive I did not succeed in seeing the heart .
I only saw it when it had been put into weak spirit ; and under the same treatment I also saw the nervous system much better than before .
The heart is an elongated tube extending from the second to the fifth segment ( Plate XLIX .
fig. 3 , c ) .
Probably there are three openings in it as in , one in each segment ; but of these nothing could be made out .
The respiratory organs consist of three pairs of small transparent sac-like gills at the bases of the second , third , and fourth pairs of feet ( Plate XLIX .
fig. 1 , hr ) .
They are in form and number nearly the same as in Phronima .
The water is driven over them by the action of the three pairs of abdominal feet .
Genital Organs.\#151 ; The single specimen taken is a female .
There is a large ovary , distinguished by its rose-colour , occupying the middle portion of the first body-segment ( Plate XLIX .
fig. 3 , ov ) .
I suspect that it consists of two ovaries lying close together , and having two excretory ducts leading to the genital papilla ; but it is impossible to ascertain this without mutilating the specimen .
The genital papilla is an elevation in the centre of the ventral surface of the first thoracic segment between the two limbs , which , as I have already mentioned , are destined to bear the eggs at their base , as in the females of Nymjphon .
The colour of the papilla is rose , with scattered scarlet points produced by small spines on the surface of the carapace .
In the centre of the genital papilla there is a large spine ( Plate L. fig. 6 , d ) with a groove leading into a depression ( c ) , in which I believe are seated the apertures of the ovarian ducts .
This pit is protected by two soft appendages ( Plate L. fig. 6 , Z ) , answering to the valves which are to be found in most female Amphipods , and in which they keep their eggs .
In the present species , however , they are only rudimentary , and they do not seem ' to be used for that purpose , as I found the eggs attached to the bases of the first pair of ambulatory legs .
Eggs and Development.\#151 ; The eggs which I found adhering to the legs had a diameter of 0-7 millim. , and were provided with an unsculptured chorion .
They contained embryos in different stages of development .
Unfortunately I discovered this only after the animal had been for a night in weak spirit , in which it had been placed for fear it should suffer decomposition .
The main point with regard to its embryology could , however , still be settled\#151 ; namely , -that there is no metamorphosis , and that the antennae , the five pairs of thoracic , and the abdominal legs are already to be seen in the embryo .
Figs. 4 and 5 of Plate L. give lateral and dorsal views of an embryo , showing the five ambulatory legs .
Embryos in the stages which showed the antennae and the abdominal legs were not in a sufficiently good state of preservation for figuring .
All the eggs seemed , as might have been expected , to be in nearly the same stage of development , and I could not determine whether the spherical organ ( " kugelformiges Organ " of the Germans ) makes its appearance or not .
Systematic Position and Affinities.\#151 ; We have already pointed out so many relations between the Crustacean described and , that no room is left for doubt that it is an Amphipod , although an aberrant one .
We must now consider the characters in which the new genus differs from Phronima as well as from the Amphi-pods in general , and the position which must be assigned to it in the system of classification .
I have only a very small part of the literature of the Amphipoda to refer to ; but the form and the anatomical structure of this genus is so remarkable , that I think , had it been previously described in detail , either Professor Wyville Thomson or I must have seen a figure of it .
As this is not the case , I venture to introduce it to science with the following generic characters under the name of Thaumops , gen .
nov .
Caput oblongum , inflatum , oculis maximis superiorem capitis partem tegentibus .
Segmenta thoracica 6 , abdominalia 5 .
Antennarum in feminis par unum , maxil-larum par unum , pedum paria duo minima maxillarum locum tenentia .
Mandi-bulae nullae .
Pedes thoracici 5 , abdominales 3 in quoque latere .
Appendices caudales 4 .
Gangliorum pectoralium paria 5 , abdominalium 3 .
Thaumops pellucidsp .
nov .
Corpus longitudine 84 mm. , latitudine 21 mm. , pellucidum .
Locality .
A single specimen of the female taken with the trawl from a depth of 1090 fathoms off Cape St. Vincent .
The segmentation of this genus presents only a very slight difference from that of Phronima , in which there are seven thoracic segments , while in Thaumops six only can be clearly discerned ; but , as I have already observed , the second segment is larger than the others , and bears two pairs of limbs\#151 ; the second pair of maxillipeds and the first pair of ambulatory legs .
It is therefore probable that this segment represents two segments fused , in which case the segmentation of Thaumops would differ in no essential particular from that of Phronima .
The shape of the head and of the eyes in Thaumops is very peculiar , and so is the position of the antennae .
In the presence of a single pair only of antennae , and in the antennae being composed of two joints , Thaumops agrees with the female of Phronima ; but in the former genus the antennae are placed on the front of the head , while in the latter their place of attachment is close to the mouth .
The number of the joints of the legs is the same in both forms ; for if we recognize the two pairs of maxillipeds as legs , we have in both Crustaceans seven pairs in the NEW GENUS OF AMPHIPOD CRUSTACEANS .
thoracic region .
Even the claw which Phronima usually has on the fourth leg is represented here by the enlarged terminal joint of the last pair of thoracic legs .
The three pairs of abdominal feet and the segmentation of the abdomen present only very small differences from Phronima , in which there is one pair of appendages more than in Thaumops .
In both forms the nerve-chain shows five ganglia in the thoracic region .
In the abdominal region Thaumops has three ganglia for five , Phronima five for five , segments .
Both forms alike have very large compound eyes , with an externally faceted cornea and crystalline bodies .
The general conformation of the stomach in is similar to that of Phronima , only in the former the csecal appendage is developed to an extraordinary degree .
The intestinal tube presents nothing remarkable .
The heart is confined , as in Phronima , to the anterior part of the thoracic region , and the gills are three pairs , with nearly the same form and mode of attachment in both cases .
The genital papilla in Thaumops is in the centre of the first thoracic segment , while in Phronima it is in the seventh body-segment .
The ovaries in Thaumops seem to be double , and are of a cylindrical form , while in most other known Amphipods they are cylindrical .
Thaumops is nearly related to Phronima ; nevertheless I do not think it can form a member of the family Phronimidse , as the transformation of the first two pairs of thoracic appendages into maxillipeds , the absence of mandibles , the entirely different structure of the head , the genital papilla being situated in the first body-segment , and the last pair only of the thoracic appendages being enlarged and bearing claws , seem to me to be characters of more than generic value .
As to the habit of life of Thaumops , the question arises whether it is a pelagic animal ( like Phronima ) which may have been caught in the trawl on its way up from the depth to which it had been lowered , 1090 fathoms , or whether it lives on the bottom .
I have already given my reasons for thinking that this Crustacean is not a good swimmer , and for suggesting that it may , like , live at the bottom ; but I am well aware that these reasons are not sufficient to establish the point , which must be kept open to be decided by future observations .
Description of the Plates .
PLATE XLIX .
Fig. 1 .
Thaumops pellucida , seen from below .
1^ not .
size .
A. Head with the cephalic ganglion and the nerves departing from it .
o. The mouth .
B. Five pairs of feet attached to the thoracic region .
gp .
Genital papilla .
mx. Maxillipeds .
mdccclxxiii .
4 Q hr .
Branchiae .
C. Three pairs of abdominal feet .
as .
The anus .
Fig. 2 .
The same , seen from above .
The head entirely covered by the faceted eyes as .
The anus .
Fig. 3 .
The same .
View from the side .
oc .
Eyes .
op .
line of brownish appendages , 0 .
Mouth .
cos. Gastric caecum , in .
Intestine .
gp .
Genital papilla , ov .
Ovary .
c. Heart .
PLATE L. Fig. 4 .
Embryo in the egg , seen from above .
x70 .
Fig. 5 .
The same , seen from the side .
X 70 .
Fig. 6 .
Papilla of the mouth ( A ) and genital papilla ( B ) , seen from below , x 10 .
ma .
Maxillae .
lab .
Labium .
0 .
Opening of the mouth , c. Depression for the oviducal apertures .
1 .
Breeding lamellae .
sp. Small scarlet spines .
d. Large spine at the entrance of the vulva .
Fig. 7 .
Facets of the cornea .
x70 .
Represented diagrammatically .
Fig. 8 .
Chitinous appendages at the lateral line of the eye , showing also the chitino ' genous layer of the carapace .
X120 .
Fig. 9 .
Two pairs of crystalline bodies .
X120 .
Fig. 9 a. Point of union of one pair of the crystalline bodies , x 120 .
MALE AND THE STRUCTURE O THAUMOPS PELLUCID A. Appendix .
On the Male and the Structure of Thaumops pellucida .
Received October 24 , \#151 ; Read December 11 , 1873 .
Since my paper on the large Hyperid was read at the Royal Society , three males of Thaumops have been caught by us .
One of these , which was taken at the surface in the towing-net during the night , was very much spoiled ; and I dissected its oral apparatus in order to elucidate several points about which I remained doubtful when I examined the female .
The largest of the males is 103 millims. in length , exceeding in length the large female by 19 millims. , and showing that Thaumops attains a prodigious size .
It was caught by the trawl in lat 5 ' 48 ' N. , long .
14 ' 20 ' W. Another very well-preserved male is younger , only 46 millims. long , but shows the genital organs better .
These males differ from the females by the absence of the genital openings at the base of the first segment and of the breeding lamellae .
The two elongate testes begin just behind the caecum of the stomach , and their vasa deferentia run down to the last segment of the pereion , where they terminate by two simple openings between the last pair of pereiopods .
There is not a trace of a second pair of antennae , either in the male or in the female .
In the former , however , the first pair of antennae , the five pairs of ambulatory pereiopods , and the caudal appendages are distinguished by the want of the glandular apparatus .
In the female these glands cause an enlargement at the top of each of the appendages in question , and this enlargement is of course also wanting in the male .
The anterior antennae have , in the large male , a length of 18 millims. , and consist of two joints , the first of which is very short .
The oral apparatus presents the same papillar shape which I figured in the female ; but the mandibles , which at first I thought were entirely wanting , have now been found .
They are very much like those of Phronima , only shorter and not so elongate as in that animal ; the palpus , which is present in the mandibles of the male Typhidce , could not be detected in .
The first maxillae are also very small , and differ by their shortness from those of Phronima , but otherwise show the same characters .
The second maxillae could not be found with certainty ; they are either wanting or represented by an organ which I thought was the labium ( Plate L. fig. 6 , lab ) .
This organ arises from the second joint of a very peculiar appendage , which I have interpreted in my first paper as maxillae ( Plate L. fig. 6 , ma ) .
I am now satisfied , however , that these are the maxillipeds , consisting of three joints .
Two of these joints are united together , the first being attached to the oral apparatus , and the second giving rise to a peculiar organ which consists of two chitinous claws united by a thin layer of the same substance , so as to form a sort of plate .
I have already mentioned that I am not quite sure whether this is a labium or , as it seems more probable , the result of the displacement and union of the second maxillae .
This organ is situated at the inner side of the maxillipedes , the third joint of which consists of two strongly denticulated and separate claws .
The two appendages ( Plate XLIX .
fig. 1 , mcc ) which I first thought act as maxillae are the gnathopoda of Spence Bate , followed by five pairs of pereiopods .
The pleopods or swimmerets consist in the male , as well as in the female , of only three pairs .
All the other particulars described in the female may also be found in the male .
The question now arises whether the systematic position which I assigned to , as a representative of a new family of Hyper , to be placed next to the ?
, can still be maintained .
After having carefully examined the question , I think it not only can but must be maintained .
As Professor Claus was kind enough to write to me , and as I had remarked already before getting his letter by studying living specimens of Oxycephalus , there are several points by which approaches the Typhidce , especially the elongate shape of the head , with the mouth underneath and the claws terminating the gnathopods .
On the other hand , however , the want of the second antennae in the male , the elongate slender shape of its first antennae , which show nothing of the enlargement and the olfactory hairs peculiar to the male Typhidce , and the want of the palpus in the male mandible , show that it differs widely from the Typhidce .
I therefore think that the position I first proposed for this animal is the right one .
The characters , however , which I assigned to it must be changed somewhat in the following way .
Thaumops , nov .
gen .
Caput oblongum , oculis maximis superiorem capitis partem tegentibus .
Segmenta thoracica septem , abdominalia quinque .
Antennarum in utroque sexu par unum .
Mandibulse et maxillae minimae .
Maxillipedum par unum conjunctum .
Pedum thoracicorum paria septem , anteriora duo parva et chelis armata .
Pedum abdo-minalium paria tria .
Thaumops pellucida , n. sp. Corpus longitudine 84\#151 ; 103 mm. In maris Atlantici part septentrionali .
There is no doubt that Thaumops is a pelagic crustacean ; and it is probably spread all over the Atlantic , for we got it off the coasts of Portugal and very near the equator .
It was caught once at night in the to wing-net and three times by the trawl , coming up from a great depth ; therefore it seems probable that , like many other pelagic animals which in the daytime live in a depth of 40-100 fathoms and come up only in the night , it retreats to a considerable depth ; and this is probably the reason why it has so long remained unknown .
H.M.S. 4 Challenger , ' Bahia , September 1873 .
p filer ft ties Srzhrrv .
PJul .
TransMDCCCLXXm .
PlcU.eXi , IX Fife.l .
F1\amp ; .2 .
J " .
J. Wild adsixajb.cUlW .
JLiWeeley~U\#163 ; hs .
71TP/ feet foCo .
Tmp .
UWjprrtoes SzzTtfn FMLT-rajrsMD CCCT .
YYTTT Fi\amp ; .
4* .
Fig , 5 .
Fi\#163 ; .
8 .
Fi^- .
9 .
ufife QrM^- 'Sa 0.0 C o o '6 'd .\gt ; goQ o folio 6 o'o 6-fcwFoFooF'i/ /No l oFooo0o cc':^Mq mm. '.pm , o^Tucfc^.wsT^Zer m. W.We^i/ SoCo.irrvp .

