210 Mr. H. F. Blaiiford on the [ Feb. 26 , Table III .
( continued ) .
19423 3237 i95'i 780 19681 9840 19777 6952 19913 19912 19427 9713 19507 9753 19687 19686 19793 19792 19919 9959 19429 1942 8 195 31 651 ' 19697 19696 19801 9900 19927 19926 * 19+33 19432 19 541 19540 19699 19698 19813 4953 19937 2848 I9+41 1620 19543 19542 19709 19708 19819 19818 19949 19948 19447 19446 19559 9779 19717 9858 19841 1984 19961 9980 19457 19456 19571 19570 19727 19726 19843 33'7 19963 3327 19463 19462 19577 19576 19739 19738 19853 9926 19973 9986 19469 19468 19583 195 82 19751 9S75 19861 6620 19979 19978 19471 9735 19597 4899 19753 19752 19867 6622 19991 9995 19477 3246 I9603 3267 19759 9879 19889 9944 19993 19992 19483 19489 9741 406 I9609 I966I 9804 19660 19763 9881 19891 6630 19997 9998 February 26 , 1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " The Winds of Northern India , in relation to the Temperature and Vapour-constituent of the Atmosphere/ ' By Henry P. Blanford , F.G.S. , Meteorological Reporter to the Government of Bengal .
Communicated by Major-General Strachey , R.E. Received May 25 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to describe the normal wind-currents of Northern India , and their annual variation , and to trace out their origin and causes , so far as these can be discovered hi the local physical changes of the atmosphere .
After referring to the data on which his conclusions are based , the author goes on to describe the winds of the principal geographical regions of North India in detail .
Part I. Description of Winds .
1 .
The Punjab.\#151 ; As a rule currents from the westward predominate on an average throughout the year ; and this is also found to be the case in other parts of North India .
In the most northern part of the Punjab , westerly winds prevail in the cold and hot dry months , easterly in the rainy months .
In the central districts northerly winds preponderate over southerly , having in the cold months a westerly tendency , but drawing round to the north-east as the hot weather comes on , while as the rainy season sets in the winds tend to east and south-east , returning to west after the rain ceases in September .
In the southern part of the Punjab ( and this is also the case in Sindh ) easterly winds never prevail , 1874 .
] Winds of Northern India .
211 and southerly , south-westerly , and north-westerly winds predominate\#151 ; the two former in the rainy months , the last in the cold and hot dry season .
In the coldest months the wind veers towards the north , and occasionally passes a little to the east of north .
2 .
The GangeticPlain.\#151 ; The great chain of the Himalaya , which skirts the northern edge of this region , the elevation of which is between 150 feet above sea-level on the east and 900 feet on the west , determines in a great measure the direction of its prevailing winds ; and those from the north-west and south-east much exceed those from other quarters .
In the western part of the plain the north-westerly winds somewhat exceed the easterly .
In the eastern part the converse holds good .
The change from the westerly to the easterly direction accompanies the change from the hot and dry season to the rains , and from easterly to westerly that from the rains to the cold season .
In the districts more remote from the mountains the tendency to a westerly direction increases , and occasional south-west winds blow , apparently caused by incursions from the Arabian Sea .
During the hot months , and during the day , the westerly winds blow with great force , falling at night ; calms are a characteristic of the nights , and prevail most in the colder months .
As the hot season advances the easterly winds become more frequent , and attain their maximum in July , when the rain becomes general .
The winds veer from the west through the north to east and south-east , the opposite change being more abrupt , and at one place of observation apparently retrograde .
3 .
Plateau of Pajpootana.\#151 ; This region is somewhat elevated above the Gangetic plain , varying from 800 or 900 feet to 1800 feet above the sea-level .
Winds from the west and south-west greatly exceed those from other quarters in the southern districts , commencing as early as February and continuing till November , when they are replaced by northerly and north-easterly winds .
The north-east winds are comparatively weak and unsteady , and interrupted by calms .
A similarity to the winds of the Southern Punjab may be observed .
The northern part of the plateau of Pajpootana partakes more of the character of the Gangetic plain in its winds , the winds of the hot season being chiefly westerly and northwesterly ; but the rainy season is accompanied by south-westerly winds , and not by easterly winds as in the Gangetic plain ; and easterly winds are always rare .
4 .
Central India.\#151 ; This region is on an average somewhat less elevated than that last referred to ; it is traversed by the high land known as the Satpoora range , and is otherwise considerably broken up into valley and mountain , so that the winds are more influenced by merely local conditions than in the less hilly regions before noticed .
Westerly winds on the whole prevail .
In the hot months westerly and north-westerly winds predominate .
local inroads of south-westerly winds occur during the rainy months on the north of the Satpoora range , and less strongly on the south of the range ; as the rainy season ceases the winds veer Mr , H. F. Blanford on the [ Feb. 26 , through west to north and north-east , which direction is dominant after November till January , when the northerly tendency fails and southerly winds blow , which again pass into the westerly winds of the hot months .
This region participates in the characteristics both of the plains of Northern India and of the Peninsula , which last is under the influence of the true south-west and north-east monsoons .
During the cold months and the rainy season respectively , when the two great monsoons are at their height , the winds of the Central India plateau are from the north-east and south-west , while those of the Gangetic plain are from the north-west and south-east , the former blowing to or from the Arabian or " Western Sea , the latter to or from the Bay of Bengal , or Eastern Sea .
Only in the hot season do the winds approximate , blowing from the dry region to the north-wTest towards the thermal focus of Central India and Western Bengal .
' 5 .
Western Bengal.\#151 ; This region includes the continuation of the plateau of Central India to the margin of the delta of the Ganges , and descends to the Bay of Bengal .
The northern part , being a comparatively open tableland , participates greatly as to its winds in the characters of the neighbouring Gangetic plain .
The west and north-West winds of the cold months are followed by south-west and south winds , which draw round to south-east during the rainy season , again reverting to northwest through west .
Occasional incursions of the south-west monsoon are felt , which are perceptible in the Gangetic valley .
On the coast the winds are very different .
The west and north-west winds of the interior are quite subordinate .
North and north-east \#166 ; winds begin in October , v7hen the south-west monsoon ceases , becoming more northerly with the increasing cold and the strengthening of the land-winds of the interior .
Later they again veer towards the east ; and the sea-winds blow from south-east in January , and ultimately from the south-west .
After September the winds fall back rapidly through south-east and east to northeast .
At places removed from the coast the wind is more westerly than on the coast .
6 .
Gangetic Delta.\#151 ; From its position this region is sw7ept by the currents of air passing between the Gangetic plain and the equatorial ocean .
The general course of the winds is as follows:\#151 ; The winter monsoon becomes well established in November , blowing nearly from the north on the east of the Delta , and from north-west on the west ; near the sea the direction is a little east of north .
As the season advances the wind draws round towards the west , where it is about February , and eventually backs by south-west to south and south-east , in which direction it blows during the rainy season and till September .
In October the winds are chiefly easterly , but unsteady and apt to be stormy , alternating with calms in the earlier part of the month , and passing into north and north-west in the latter part .
7 .
Assam.\#151 ; The local configuration of this valley no doubt affects its 1874 .
] Winds of Northern India .
213 winds , forming , as it does , an open passage for the monsoons to pass to and from the region north of the Himalaya .
The winter monsoon begins in October , when north and north-east winds blow with great steadiness till January , after which westerly winds are felt , chiefly blowing from the south-west , till in June they predominate and continue till September , when they in turn give way to the easterly winds .
On the whole the characteristic of Assam is the prevalence of easterly winds , which is here as conspicuous as that of the westerly winds over the Gangetic plain and Punjab .
8 .
Ardkan Coast.\#151 ; The observations in this region are limited to places on the coast .
The northerly winds begin in October , with occasional north-west wind , continue till March , or a month later than in the Gangetic delta , after which they work round to the southward , and at length to south-east by south , which is the normal mean direction of the wind along this coast during the south-west monsoon .
This mean direction is varied at all times of the year by the land and sea breezes .
The changes of the monsoons occur sensibly later on the southern parts of the coast than on the northern j also the southerly winds attain less easting , and the northerly winds less westing , in the south than in the north .
In August a sudden drawing of the wind towards the west is observable on this coast ( and is also discernible in Bengal and the Northwest Provinces of India ) , followed by a return to the eastward , due apparently to the influence of the true south-west monsoon of the Arabian Sea , then at its height .
Summary.\#151 ; Prom the foregoing it will be seen that the winds of Northern TnHin .
are very different from those of the adjacent seas .
Instead of two monsoons from the north-east and south-west alternately prevailing during about equal periods of the year , we find rather three distinct seasons in which special winds prevail , the directions of which mainly depend on the directions and relative positions of the mountain-ranges and plains .
During the cold-weather months , November to January , light westerly and northerly winds blow from the plains of Upper India down the valleys of the Ganges and Indus , and across the tableland of Central India , and join into the north-east monsoon of the Peninsula .
The easterly winds of the valley of Assam add to this current .
In April and May , as the hot weather comes on , the winds of Northern India become more westerly and powerful , and take the form of the hot winds , which are not continuous but diurnal , blowing till sun-down and then followed by calms , and prevailing to the eastern limits of the Gangetic -delta .
At the same time southerly winds are commencing on the coast , and are felt from Sindh across to Bengal , but only at intervals , and feebly except near the sea .
" .
In June the south-west monsoon , being established in the equatorial -ocean , sets in round both coasts of the peninsula , penetrates up the Mr. H. F. Blanford on the [ Feb. 26 , valleys of the Indus , the Nerbudda , and Tap tee , carrying a west or south-west current over Central India , and from the Bay of Bengal pouring up the funnel-shaped opening occupied by the Gangetic delta , whence turning westward it passes up the Grangetic valley towards the Punjab , vThich seems to be the limit of the south-easterly winds , in Afghanistan the dominant winds being westerly even during the summer months .
This is the period of the rainy season of Northern India .
In October , as the south-west monsoon ceases , the southerly current is recurved towards the heated region along the Coromandel coast ( on winch the rainfall is till this season of the year comparatively small ) , and , blowing as a south-east wind , causes the autumn rains on that coast , which some waiters have erroneously attributed to the north-east monsoon .
With the gradual cessation of the southerly winds the westerly winds of Northern India again begin , and the cycle of the year is thus completed .
Part II .
Relation of Winds to other Elements of Climate .
1 .
Temperature.\#151 ; The seasons of Northern India present three distinct phases:\#151 ; the cold season , from the end of the rains in September to February or March ; the hot season , characterized by a dry atmosphere and great diurnal range of temperature ; and the rainy season , in which the temperature is moderately high and equable , and the air very humid .
At the close of the rains ( the end of September ) the temperature of Northern India from the Punjab to the sea is nearly uniform at about 81 ' or 82 ' .
But evaporation and radiation to a cloudless sky soon reduce the temperature of the interior below that of the maritime regions ; and in January the Punjab is about 11 ' colder than Bengal , the plains of the North-west Provinces being about midway in temperature between the two .
In March the advance of temperature in Central India has brought out two thermal foci\#151 ; one on the west in Bajpootana , and the other on the east in the hilly tracts of Western Bengal .
In April the Central-Indian thermal focus is well developed .
The mean temperature of Nagpore is 7 ' above that of Bombay , 13 ' above the northern Punjab , and 6 ' above the coast of the Gangetic delta .
The hottest region has a mean temperature between 85 ' and 90 ' , the Upper-Punjab and ITpper-Assam being from 75 ' to 77 ' .
In May the thermal focus has gone further to the north-wmst , and lies in the northern part of the Bajpootana plateau .
In June it has reached the Punjab , the temperature of which continues to increase , rising to 95 ' and more ; while that of the south of India begins to fall , consequent on the rains , which commence about the middle of the month .
In July the Punjab ranges above 90 ' , while the greater part of Central India is below 85 ' .
After July the temperature again falls , so that by the end of September it is nearly equalized all over Northern India .
To sum up briefly .
In the cold weather there are two foci of mini- 1874 .
] Winds of Northern India .
mum temperature , the one in the Punjab and the other in Assam , and , with some exceptions , the isothermals nearly conform to the parallels of latitude .
In the hot months a focus of heat is formed in Central India , round which the isotherms are bent , the temperature on the coasts and in the northern plains being considerably lower than that of the interior .
Finally , during the rainy season the seat of highest temperature is in the Punjab , the coolest regions then being those of the maximum rainfall , and consisting of two tracts extending from the coasts of Bombay and Bengal , along the course of the monsoon currents .
The author then refers to the distribution of temperature in a vertical direction , as ascertained from observations made at the mountain-stations .
He points out apparent anomalies in the differences of temperature due to difference of altitude in the mountains of North-western India and those bordering on Bengal , and suggests , as a probable explanation , the variation of hygrometrical condition of the air in the two regions , remarking that the continual upward diffusion and condensation of water vapour must tend to equalise the upper and lower temperatures , and that this tendency will be the greater as the approach to saturation is closer .
The subject , however , is admitted to be one that requires further examination , and particularly with respect to the operation of nocturnal radiation and diurnal absorption of heat\#151 ; the remark being also made that the available observations give the local temperature near the surface of the mountains , and do not properly represent the condition of the free atmosphere at corresponding elevations .
2 .
Vapour-tension , Humidity , and Rainfall.\#151 ; In the regions under discussion , the lowest vapour-tension occurs almost everywhere in January , when the temperature is lowest .
The lowest mean tension for any month is about 0-2 inch , observed in the Southern Punjab , the corresponding minimum in Bengal being about 0*5 inch .
The increase of tension begins early in the districts near the sea , and continues regularly and rapidly till the setting in of the rains ; but in the drier regions of the interior , where the west winds prevail throughout the spring and hot-weather months , the rise of tension is slow , probably not more than is due to the actual rise of temperature acting on the local vapour supply .
The increase at the commencement of the rains , in June or July , when the southerly winds begin to be felt , is very marked and sudden ; and equally so is the fall after September , when the southerly is replaced by the northerly current .
As regards variation of tension due to elevation , the conclusions of former observers are confirmed , that the ratio of decrement follows generally the increase of elevation , but with a marked addition to the relative tensions at the higher stations in the hottest and wettest months .
Passing to the humidity of the air , it is shown that the period of greatest dryness falls later in the year the greater the distance from the sea , measuring along the course of rain-carrying wind-current .
On the coast 216 Mr. H. F. Blanford the [ Feb. 26 , of Bengal the driest month is January , the period being later as we go inland up the Gauge tic valley , till it is found in May or June in the Punjab and North-west Provinces .
In the western part of the Gangetic valley and the Punjab there is a secondary minimum of dryness , which follows a converse rule to that of the principal minimum ; that is , it falls earlier the greater the distance from the sea in the sense before explained .
In the Punjab this minimum is as early as September or October , shortly after the cessation of the rains , gradually advancing till November at Benares , east of which it is not appreciable .
Intermediate between the two minimum periods is a secondary or winter maximum , evidently related to the winter rains o\#163 ; the Upper Provinces , and , like the corresponding winter maximum and rains of Europe , traceable to the descent of the equatorial ( here the anti-monsoon ) current , and the low winter temperature .
The relative humidity of the air remains pretty constant at all elevations on the Himalaya , as already pointed out by Dr. Hooker and other writers , but not including Tibet , the conditions of which are very different .
There are , however , considerable exceptions to the general rule ; and the local law of variation depends much on local conditions .
The rainfall is next discussed .
The author points out that there are three principal seasons of rain calling for notice .
The summer and early autumn rains ( that is , those of the south-west monsoon , or of the rainy season commonly so called ) are the most important .
In Bengal they begin on an average about the middle of June , with a fall of from 9 to 15 inches in that month .
In the Upper Provinces they are later , and in Bajpootana there is little rain till July .
Everywhere they have their maximum in July .
In the Upper Provinces and Eajpootana very little rain falls in October , and the rains may be said to end in the last week of September .
In Bengal and Central India the fall is still considerable in October ; and the rains there end about the middle of this last-named month .
The spring rains prevail in the region over which the sea winds blow from the Bay of Bengal early in the year .
In Assam and Eastern Bengal showers are frequent in March , and in April the fall is copious , amounting , in those districts to windward of the eastern mountains , to 12 or 14 inches in the latter month .
In Western Bengal the fall is less , and takes place with occasional thunder-storms , locally known as westers , which extend as far inland as Nagpoor and Benares .
The winter rains are received most regularly and copiously in the Punjab and Upper Provinces , Assam , and Cachar .
In Bengal and the lower part of the Gangetic valley they are less regular and lighter .
They begin at the end of December , continuing till March in the North-west Provinces , and till April in the Punjab .
The fall in these districts amounts to about 4 or 5 inches during the whole season .
The author consideis that , as they do not coincide either with the period of greatest cokl oi 1874 .
] Winds of Northern .
greatest humidity , these rains must be due to some other cause , which he thinks to be the humidity of the anti-monsoon current .
On the mountains the heaviest rainfall is on the lower and outer slopes .
The greatest recorded falls are those at Cherra-Poonji over Eastern Bengal , averaging more than 500 inches in the year .
On the Himalaya the records show falls of from 280 inches on the east to 70 or 80 inches in the North-west Provinces , and 40 to 50 inches in the Punjab .
Local circumstances of position greatly affect the quantity .
Generally the quantity of rainfall diminishes with increase of distance from the coast ; but it increases on approaching a hill-range on the windward side when the rise is steep , while to leeward a decrease takes place , followed.eventually by another gradual increase .
3 .
Atmospheric Pressure.\#151 ; The available data for discussing this part of the subject are imperfect ; and particularly the means of reducing the pressures to the sea-level are not forthcoming in many cases .
The following remarks are made subject to this explanation .
The mean pressure , reduced to sea-level , in the month of October is nearly uniform over Bengal , on both sides of the bay , in the Central Provinces , and the Gangetic valley , with a slight tendency to a higher pressure in the North-west Provinces and Cuttack on the one side , and on the Arakan coast on the other , which finds its expression in the slightly converging winds of that season .
In the following months the pressure rises over the whole area , but most in the North-west Provinces and Western Bengal ; and in December an axis of maximum pressure lies on a line drawn from Cuttack to the North-west Provinces in a north-west and south-east direction .
The distribution of pressure remains much the same till the end of February .
In March a rapid fall takes place in Northern India ; but the line of higher pressure still remains , extending now from North-western India across to the coast of Arakan round the delta of the Ganges .
This , doubtless , is the immediate cause of the back to back winds described in Part I. In April , with a continued rapid fall , a trough of low pressure becomes apparent , which extends from the head of the delta of the Ganges into Central India .
In May this area of low pressure is somewhat displaced towards the north , occupying a line from Western Bengal to Nagpoor , along the 24th parallel of latitude .
In June the conditions are generally similar , but with much reduced pressure in the Punjab , in the north-west of which province the absolute minimum is probably to be found .
The mean difference of pressure in June between Port Blair in the Bay of Bengal and the upper part of the North-west Provinces is not less than of an inch , and between Port Blair and Calcutta y'y of an inch , Calcutta being about as far from Port Blair as from the head of the Gangetic valley , 800 miles ; the baric gradient over the Bay of Bengal , therefore , is about double what it is over the axis of the Ganges valley , and amounts VOL. xxii .
E On the Winds of Northern India .
[ Feb. 26 , to of an inch for 400 miles over the land , and of an inch over the sea , which suffices to maintain the steady current of the south-west monsoon .
In July the minimum of pressure is reached without important relative change .
In August a rise begins , greater over Northern India , which continues during September and October , when the uniformity of pressure is once more approximately restored .
It is apparent that the distribution of pressure follows , within certain limits , that of temperature , in an inverse ratio of intensity .
Thus the region of high pressure in the cold months , which lies across Northern Tnrlia , from Roorkee to*Cuttack , coincides approximately with the area over which the isothermals , then approximately parallel to the circles of latitude , are bent downwards , or the temperature of which is lowest relatively to the areas to the east and west of it .
Again , during the hot half of the year , as the isothermal lines advance , first turning their branches southwards and leaving an area of higher temperature in Central India between them , which eventually is inverted towards the west over the Punjab , so a somewhat corresponding change occurs in the lines of equal pressure , which at this season may be said to be distributed on lines generally following the meridians , but with a loop more or less deeply concave towards the west .
The author then discusses at some length the manner in which these changes of pressure arise , and to what extent they are dependent on the changes in the proportion of aqueous vapour in the air , and concludes that the vapour ' indirectly greatly influences the pressure by carrying heat from the lower to the upper strata , and by arresting solar and terrestrial radiation , thus equalizing the temperature of the air-column , but that its power of changing the density , by reason of the displacement of the heavier air-particles , is relatively small , and in some cases unimportant .
In general terms the changes of temperature are the principal causes of the variations of pressure .
4 .
Certain Effects of WtVicZs.\#151 ; Inquiry is made whether any dynamic heating or cooling of the air can be traced by reason of winds descending to a lower or rising to a higher level , with the conclusion that no such effects are discernible , and that certain explanations given of the winds of India ( by other writers ) , based on such a conception , are erroneous .
Evidence is adduced which is held to establish that anti-monsoon currents blow in the upper strata of the atmosphere , at the various seasons of the year , and at varying elevations , causing corresponding modifications in the general temperature , the operation of all winds being to distribute the temperature peculiar to them .
To the descent of the antimonsoon current from the south , the author is disposed to attribute the rains of the cold weather .
Attention is also directed to the greater velocity of the wind-currents near the sea , the westerly winds increasing in force as they approach 1874 .
] On Displacement of the Solar Spectrum .
219 Bengal , and the south-easterly winds diminishing in force as they reach the North-west Provinces , indicating that descending and ascending currents must be formed in the upper strata , though of the return southward of any descending current from the north there is no direct evidence .
II .
" Note on Displacement of the Solar Spectrum .
" By J. H. N. Hennessey , F.R.A.S. Communicated by Professor Gr .
G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received December 15 , 1873 .
The following experiments were made with the ( new ) spectroscope ( three prisms ) of the Royal Society to ascertain for this instrument the amount of displacement in the solar spectrum from change of temperature .
The spectroscope was set up on a pillar within a small tent at a time of the year when the thermal range is considerable : the collimator was placed horizontal , and directed through a window in the tent to a heliostat , which was made to reflect the sun 's image when required .
On closing the window darkness prevailed in the tent , so that the bright sodium lines were easily obtained from a spirit-lamp .
Before commencing , the slit was adjusted and the spectroscope clamped ; and no movement of any kind was permitted in the instrument during the experiments .
The displacement was measured by means of a micrometer in the eye-end of the telescope , reading being taken ( out of curiosity ) successively to both dark and bright lines , i. e. to K 1002*8=Dr and K 1006*8=DW .
A verified thermometer was suspended directly over and almost touching the prisms .
The meteorological observatory referred to was some fifty yards north of the tent .
Rejecting observation 5 ( in the following Table ) because the thermometer was evidently in advance of the prisms , we deduce O By Dark lines , displacement equal D rto Dv is produced by ... .
31*3 change of temperature .
By Bright lines , displacement equal Dr to D\#171 ; is produced by ... .
29*4 " Mean ... .
30 from which it appears that the displacement in question may not be neglected in investigations made under a considerable thermal range .
b 2

