[ 639 ] XIX .
Pelvic Characters of Thylacoleo camifex .
By Professor Owen , F.P.S. , \amp ; c. Received April 13 , \#151 ; Read April 26 , 1883 .
[ Plate 46 .
] Since the communication of the 1st February , 1883 , " On the Affinities of Thylacoleo , " I have received , through the favour of the Trustees of the Museum of Natural History , Sydney , and the care of the accomplished keeper , E. P Pams ay , Esq. , F.L.S. , a second consignment of the palaeontological results of his exploration of the Breccia Caverns of Wellington Yalley , New South Wales .
Besides additional confirmation of the dental , mandibular , antibrachial , ungual , and other osteal characters of Thylacoleo , these accessory specimens afford further evidence of the carnivorous modifications of parts of the skeleton .
Of these a well-marked one is yielded by the pelvis ( Plate 46 , fig. 1 ) .
I may premise that this part in Pelts and Macropus shows the following differences :\#151 ; In Macropus major ( Plate 46 , fig. 2 ) the ilium , i , extends above , or anterior to , the acetabulum , a , into an elongate body of a triedral form : the two outer facets are deeply hollowed transversely , are separated from each other by a sharp well-produced ridge , and each is divided from the flattened and roughened mesial , or sacral , third surface by similar ridge-like productions bounding the respective margins of the outer non-articular surfaces .
In Pelts ( Plate 46 , fig. 3 ) the superacetabular body of the ilium , i , is a relatively broader plate of bone with the slightly concave outer surface undivided .
The ilium , in Macropus , bends outward to its free tuberous end and contracts thereto .
In Felts it slightly expands to the ridge-shaped free border .
In Macropus the contour of the acetabular margin approaches a triangular figure , the truncate apex being forward or next the ilium ; the basal part of the margin is cleft above the canal or groove leading from the ischium , s , to the bottom of the articular cavity , a. In Pelts the contour of the acetabulum , a , is sub-circular ; the iliac border is not produced into an angle .
The synovial glandular pit is broader and shallower , and the mesial boundary of the canal leading thereto is not produced ; the lateral boundary alone arches over part of that canal .
A marked difference between Macropus and Felts is the relative length and slenderness of the ischium , s , as it recedes from the acetabular region to the terminal tuberosity , s ' .
In the Marsupial it contributes four-fifths of the outer border of the relatively large obturator vacuity , o. In Felis the shorter , broader , and thicker body of the ischium , as it descends or retrogrades to the tuberosity , s ' , contributes but half of the outer border of the relatively smaller obturator foramen , the anterior third of each border running parallel with the acetabulum .
The portion of pelvis from the Wellington cave ( Plate 46 , fig. 1 ) corresponds in size , and includes the parts to which the above-defined characters of the carnivorous and herbivorous Mammals can be respectively compared .
The ilium , is lamellar in form , not a triedral bar .
The acetabulum , has a wide and shallow sub-circular synovial cavity , p , the entry to which is not encroached upon by the mesial and distal acetabular border , but is partially overarched thereby posteriorly or laterally .
The tuberosity , fig. 1 , t , for the origin of the superacetabular tendon of the rectus femoris muscle is rather more prominent than in Felis , fig. 3 , t ; in Macropus , fig. 2 , t , it is almost flat , and is indicated by a roughened surface.* The distance of this surface from the acetabulum is the same in the Kangaroo as is that of the process , t , in the cave-fossil ; in the Lion it is nearer to the acetabular border .
In Macropus major a subquadrate process , i , with a basal breadth of one inch , extends for seven lines forward from the ilio-pubic commencement of the brim of the pelvis .
This process does not relate to the attachment of a marsupial bone , it answers rather to the " anterior inferior spine " of the human ilium , and gives attachment to the main origin of the " rectus femoris ; " it may relate , in both , to the action of that muscle in maintaining the erect , bipedal posture .
The " anterior inferior spine " is represented by a narrow rough slightly produced ridge from the same position in the leonine pelvis , and is not more developed in the cave-fossil .
In this the facets , fig. 1 , m , at the fore-end of the ischio-pubic symphysis for the attachment of marsupial bones , are present : but such surface is not upon an outwardly produced epiphysial bone , as in the full-grown Macropus major .
But now it may be asked\#151 ; " Why is the comparison confined to the largest of the existing herbivorous Marsupials ?
" To which I reply that size seems to relate to the sphere of activity in which Marsupials obtain their vegetable food .
Those that seek it in trees , like the arboreal Phalangers and Koalas , do not exceed a Cat or Babbit in size , while the grazers attain a bulk which equals that of Thylacoleo carnifex , and the vegetarian contemporaries of that extinct species much exceeded in size the Boomer Kangaroo ( Macropus major ) .
Among the cave remains of the prey of Thylacoleo is part of a gnawed pelvis twice the size of that of the Boomer , but closely repeating the Macropodal characters of that part of the skeleton in the existing Kangaroos , t * In man it is a groove , and gives attachment to the so-called " reflected tendon " of the rectus femovis .
f ' Fossil Mammals of Australia , ' 4to .
, vol. ii .
, pi .
cxxx .
( ) .
CHARACTERS O THYLACOLEO CARNIEEX .
I have , however , pursued my comparisons of the Thylacolean pelvis with that of smaller Marsupial vegetarians , and also with the pelvis of the existing carnivorous Marsupials , the largest of which is small in comparison with In all these existing Marsupials the triedral character of the elongate ilium is retained , but in a much less marked degree than in Macropus .
The outer dividing angle or ridge is feebly developed , and the facets it divides are not excavated , not in any of them , at least , as in the Kangaroos .
The anterior end of the ilium bends outward in the Koala , and , in a greater degree , in the Wombat .
The dasyurine pelvis , figs. 4 , 5 , resembles in the minor indication of such bend that of the cave-fossil ; and also shows the relative shortness of the ischium as it extends from the acetabulum , and the characters of that cup .
But both Thylacinus and Diabolus differ from Thylacoleo in the minor development of the superacetabular process , t , in the size of which the great pouched Carnivore resembles the Felines .
Both , however , repeat in the mere roughened indication of the strong antacetabular process , i , in the Kangaroos , the character by which the Felines resemble Thylacoleo .
The triangular facets , m , at the fore-end of the ischio-pubic symphysis , for the attachment of the pouch-bones are as in Thylacoleo .
Thus it was seen that in the points in which the Fossil differs from the Feline , it adheres to the Marsupial type , especially as shown by the larger still existing pouched Carnivores ; as , for example , on the shorter extent of the ischium below the acetabulum and in its tuberous end being continued more squarely mesiad , instead of bending forward to join the pubis , as in Felis(fig .
3 , 6 ) .
On the whole the fossil pelvis most resembles the dasyurine modification of this part of the skeleton , but by characters too nearly similar to those in the equipedal Diprotodonts to sanction a reference of Thylacoleo to the Polyprotodont group .
One character by which the larger Carnivore differs from the existing Marsupials , and agrees with the placental Carnivores , viz. : the superacetabular tuberosity , t , e.g. , indicates a disposition of powerful limb-muscles in harmony with their frequent actions in a predatory quadruped engaged in pulling down a larger vegetable-feeder .
In the differential modifications of the pelvis of the terrestrial pouched grazers and browsers may be seen relations to muscular developments needed for the transfer of locomotive power , in rapid flight , to one pair of limbs , the hinder ones , in which the larger terminal horn-sheaths of the digits approach the character of hoofs .
The smaller fore-paws retain the unguiculate structure , relating , in the female , to the economy of the pouch .
If the foregoing details be deemed tedious , or seem superfluous , in addition to the deductions as to the life-work of the extinct Marsupial founded on its skull , its teeth , its fore-limbs , I must plead the deserved reputation as a Comparative Anatomist of the distinguished Member of the Itoyal Society , who doubts the carnivority of the Thylacoleo ; * and the testimony which Professor Flower citest in support of his doubts , may also have weight with many readers :\#151 ; " Mr. Gerard Kreeft , the able Curator of the Australian Museum , Sydney , in the * Annals and Magazine of Natural History/ vol. xviii .
, ser. 3 , p. 146 , 1866 , gives his opinion that * this famous Marsupial Lion was not more carnivorous than the Phalangers of the present time .
' " The value of this testimony I leave to the judgment of the Fellows of the Royal Society of Sydney , and of the Linnean Society of the same capital of New South Wales .
J Addendum .
( Added August , 1883 .
) [ Since the Report by the Referees on the preceding Paper was submitted to the Council of the Royal Society , I have received from the Secretary the following remark made by one of the Referees :\#151 ; " I think the value of the Paper would be enhanced if it contained a distinct statement whether the reference of the fossil to Thylacoleo is inferred or based on such circumstantial evidence as leaves no room for doubt in respect to its identification .
" The following is submitted in compliance with the Secretary 's suggestion .
The circumstantial evidence consists in the absence of any other fossils , showing a carnivorous type of dentition , agreeing in size with limb-bones of like indication and corresponding size , save jaws and teeth , of a Thylacoleo .
The arrival , subsequent to the reading of the Paper , of Mr. Ed. W. Ramsay , F.L.S. , as Superintendent of the Australian Department of the Fisheries Exhibition , has added , by verbal details and supplementary specimens , direct confirmation of the deductions from his previous transmission of the described fossils .
If no other specimens than the limb-bones had been received they would have impressed me with the conviction that a Carnivore exceeding in size the existing Thylacine , in the degree in which the Lion surpasses the Wolf , had co-existed with the Diprotodonts , Nototheriums , and other large phytophagous Marsupials .
* " What was the particular form of food associated with the most singular dentition of , it would be hazardous to do more than conjecture .
As the flora of the country in which this strange animal existed has probably undergone as great a change as the fauna , it is not unlikely that the material on which it subsisted has passed away with the creature itself .
It may have been some kind of root or bulb ; it may have been fruit ; it may have been flesh .
" t " On the Affinities and probable Habits of the extinct Australian Marsupial , Thylacoleo Owen , " Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society , vol. xxiv .
, 1868 .
X Proceedings of the Linnean Society of New South Wales , 8vo .
, 1883 , p. 187 ( " On Tooth-marked Bones of Extinct Marsupials , " by Charles De Vis , B.A. ) .
CHARACTERS OF THYLACOLEO CARNIFEX .
The extirpating cause of the Felis spelcea together with the huger Herbivores ( Elephas , Rhinoceros , Megaceros , Bos primigeniu represented by remains in British caverns , may be inferred to have operated in relation to the analogous evidences in Australia .
That cause I conceive to have been Prehistoric Man .
] Description op the Plate .
PLATE 46 .
Fig. 1 .
Os innominatum , Thylacoleo carnifex , not .
size .
Fig. 2 .
Ib .
Macropus major , ^ not .
size .
Fig. 3 .
Ib .
Felis Leo , do .
Fig. 4 .
Ib .
Thylacinus cynocephalus , \ not .
size .
Fig. 5 .
Ib .
Diabolus ursinus , do .
Phil. Trans.1883.Plate 46 .
Fig.3 .
West , IsTe5vv2Ma.il .
\amp ; a C ?
oxu-jo .

