Eaxperiments and Observations on Electric Conduction .
By William Ritchie , A.M. F.R.S. Rector of Tain Academy .
ReadJune 19,1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 373 .
] According to the modern theory of electricity , metallic bodies , far from attracting the electric fluid , as is commonly believed , are of all bodies those which have the least attraction for that fluid , and being the best conductors for it , are entirely passive during its transit through them .
In confirmation of these views , the author describes experiments in which the electric spark was found to have penetrated through the side of a glass globe blown to an extreme degree of thinness .
An electric jar , from which the air had been partially exhausted , could not be made to receive as high a charge as when the contained air was of the usual density , and when entirely exhausted could not be charged in any sensible degree ; when filled with condensed air on the other hand , it retained a higher charge than before .
The heated and consequently rarefied air surrounding a red-hot iron rod is found to conduct electricity with great facility .
The same property is observed in the flame from a blowpipe , which may be regarded as a hollow cone containing highly rarefied air ; as also , in a larger scale , in that of a volcano .
Sir H. Davy had concluded from his experiments on voltaic electricity , that the conducting powers of metals are diminished by heat ; but Mr. Ritchie infers from several experiments which bear more directly upon the question , that the metals afford no exception to the general law , that in all bodies heat increases the conducting powers ; and explains the apparent anomaly in Sir H. Davy 's experiments , by the dissipation of the electricity by the rarefied air surrounding the heated metals , which were used as conductors .
He concludes his paper by describing an experiment which appears to establish , in respect to this law , a striking analogy between the electric and magnetic influences .

