II .
" On the Great Storm of December 3 , 1863 , as recorded by the Self-registering Instruments at the Liverpool Observatory .
" By JOHN IIARTNUP , F.R.A.S. , Director of the Observatory .
Comr municated by General SABINE , P.R.S. Received January 21 , 1864 .
[ This Paper is accompanied by a diagram , which is deposited , for reference , in the Archives of the Royal Society , and of which the auithor gives the following explanation .
] The accompanying diagram exhibits the strength and direction of the wind , the height of the barometer , and the rain-fall for three days preceding , two days following , and during the great storm of December 3 , 1863 , as recorded by the self-registering instruments at the Liverpool Observatory .
The barometer-tracing is a facsimile of the original record produced by King 's self-registering barometer ; the force and direction of the wind and the rain-fall have been taken from the sheets of Osler 's anemometer and rain-gauge ; the time-scale for the anemometer has been slightly increased to adapt it to that of the barometer , and the scale of wind-pressure for each five pounds has been made uniform , instead of leaving the spaces greater or less according to the strength of the springs as in the original record .
The tracings of the recording-pencils for the direction of the wind and the rain-fall are faithfully represented , but it is scarcely possible to copy the delicate shadings and every gust recorded on the original sheets by the pencil which registers the force of the wind ; all the heavy pressures are , however , correctly represented , and may be taken from the diagram as accurately as from the original sheets .
The figures at the lsottom of the diagram show the readings of the dryand wet-bulb thermometers and the maximum and minimum thermometers as recorded at the Observatory during the six days ; the wetand dry-bulb thermoneters were read each day at 8 and 9 A.M. and at 1 , 3 and 9 P.M. ; the registering dry thermometers were read and readjusted each day at 1 P.M. The time marked on the diagram for all the instruments is Greenwich mean time .
For four days previous to the 30th of November the barometer had been high and steady , the readings ranging from 30,13 in .
to 30 33 in .
, the latter at noon on the 29th being the highest ; from this time to midnight the fall was slow and pretty uniform ; from midnight November 29 to iniight December 5 the changes of barometric pressure , the strength and direction of the wind , and the rain-fall are shown on the diagram .
The fall of the barometer on the day of the great storm was rapid from midnight to 6 A.M. ; heavy rain and hail fell from 3 ' 30m to 7".20 ; and from 5h 501 to 6 " 4511 it was nearly calm , during which time the wind shifted from E. through S. to W. Between 6 " 45m and 8h 15 , the pressure of the wind increased from 0 to 16 lbs. on the square foot , and at about twenty-five minutes past eight it increased froimi 16 to 43 lbs. in the shiort space of two or three minutes ; the baroneter , being at its minimum , suiddenly rose about three-hundredths of an inch , and during the heaviest part of the storm it colntinued to rise at the rate of about one-tenth of an inch an hour .
The oscillations in the mercurial column , as will be seen by the diagram , were large and , frequent deuring the storm , onie of the most remarkable being immeidiately after 10 1 A.M. and niearly coincident with two of the heaviest gusts of wind ; the depression in , this case amounted to between fur and five hundredlths of an inch , the rise following the fall so quickly that the clock moved the recording-cylinder only through just sufficient space to cause a double lilne to be traced by the penicil .
minutes past eight it increased from 16 to 43 lbs. in the short space of two or three minutes ; the barometer , being at its minimum , suddenly rose about three-hundredths of an inch , and during the heaviest part of the storm it continued to rise at the rate of about one-tenth of an inch an hour .
The oscillations in the mercurial column , as will be seen by the diagram , were large and .
frequent during the storm , one of the most remarkable being immediately after 10'1 A.M. and nearly coincident with two of the heaviest gusts of wind ; the depression in this case amounted to between four and five hundredths of an inch , the rise following the fall so quickly that the clock moved the recording-cylinder only through just sufficient space to cause a double line to be traced by the pencil .

