]\gt ; two other atoms .
* This is deduced from experimental data : but there are other results which present difficulties .
Thus the refraction of substance is more certainly known than those of water , wood spirit , and alcohol .
But the oxygen in appears to have the higher number , notwithstanding its union to two atoms of hydrogen , while in , , as well as higher alcohols , and the diatomic ethene alcohol , , and the triatomic , the oxygen is not , but or , the numberg originally assigned to this element .
Nitrogen.\mdash ; Nitrogen has two values , and , or thereabouts .
The lower value , , is that originally deduced from cyanogen an metallic cyanides , and it seems to be generally confirmed by the observations on organic cyanides and nitriles .
The higher value , is deduced from all my observations on organic bases and amides , such as diethylamine , triethylamine , formamide , \amp ; c. The determination of the value of nitrogen in nitro-substitution products presents some peculiar difficulties .
The observations are not accordant .
Even were the value of obtained with certainty , it would not be easy to say how much should be attributed to the oxygen , especially it is remembered that combination with oxygen alters very materially the refraction of the analogous elements , phosphorus and arsenic .
I hope shortly to submit to the public the data for these calculations , and in fact the whole of my recent observations on the refraction of organic compounds , together with a ] discussion of the conclusions that may be drawn from them .
II .
" " On certain Definite Integrals No. 8 .
By W. H. L. RUSSELL , F.B.S. Received January 6 , 1881 .
I commence this paper with some general reflections on the theory of definite integrals .
A definite integral may be written thus\mdash ; .
If we expand in terms of ( a ) and equate the coefficients of we shalL have .
* These have been calculated for line A. certain Definite Integrak .
331 And again expanding in terms of , and equating coefficients of , we shall have .
And thus we may proceed in general until we arrive at a simple definite integral containing only one arbitrary constant and the indices we may obtain a complicated definite integral in many cases from a simple one , b multi 1ving it by constants raised to the powers of certain quantities contained as indices in the integral , as:signing successive values to those indices , and then summing the resnlting series .
Thus the , sin ' was obtained from the definite integral by a process of double summation .
These considerations show us why the method of summation is of such great importance in the evaluation of definite integrals .
I now hope to prove , as I stated in the last paper , that every function of am algebraical magnitude may be regarded as a centre from which systems of definite integrals emanate in all directions like rays from a star , in such a manner that the value of each integral is equivalent to the original function transformed by a known symbdl .
Let Then ; or since we shall have ; or putting Mr. W. H. L. Russel on Hence we have Hence we shall have : .
This formula was obtained by differentiating twice , but similar formulae may be obtained by differentiating any number of times .
By analogous processes we may obtain likewise the following integrals:\mdash ; ( 134 ) .
This integral requires the evaluation of when is greater than , and consequently the usual formula does not apply .
We may , however , proceed thus ; since ( \mdash ; 3)e . . . .
( 135 ) , we are able by successive reductions to reduce the required integral to known forms .
where ( 136 ) .
, where and is the quantity defined in the fifth paper of this series ( 137 ) .
certain Definite lntegrals .
( 138 ) .
( 139 ) . . .
Similarly we may find ( 141 ) .
( 142 ) .
Similarly we may obtain:\mdash ; .
( 143 ) .
( 144 ) .
( 146 ) .
( 147 ) .
These formulae may be extended .
I add a few examples of their application to particular cases:\mdash ; ' 148 .
( 151 ) .
( 152 ) .
In my last paper I gave the integral ( 132 ) .
It is obvious that by a similar process we can find ( 153 ) .
( 154 ) , remembering that Also since ( 155 ) , ( 156 ) , ( 157 ) , ( 158 ) , it is manifest that:\mdash ; ( 159 ) , ( 160 ) , eertain Definite Integrals .
335 ( 161 ) , ( 162 ) , may be reduced to integrals 132 , 153 , , and other known forms , hd that consequently ( resolving into partial fractions ) , , , , may be ascertained .
We may also find ( 167 ) .
( 168 ) .
If we expand the denominator of the integral where ( 169 ) , and integrate the terms in succession , we shall have to determine the integral series of the form which may always be found , when the values of ( m ) and ( n ) are assigned , from the expanded form of by the method of summation of the equidistant terms of series .
Similar reasoning will apply to ( 170 ) .
( 171 ) .
( 172 ) .
This mebhod of summing the equidistant terms of series may be applied to the determination of the values of other integrals , as for instance 336 Mr. J. W. Hulke .
( 173 ) , ( Received February 4 , 1881 .
) I have receiyed permission to write down formula 132 ) thur 4 amended:\mdash ; III .
" " Polacanthus Foxii , a large undescribed Dinosaur from thel Wealden Formation in the Isle of Wight By J. HULKE , F.R.8 .
Received January 3 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
A description of the remains of a large Dinosaur , discovered in 1865 by the Rev. W. Fox , in a bed of sbaly clay between Barnes3 and Cowleaze Chines , in the Isle of Wight .
Head , neck , shoulder girdle , and foreribs were missing , but the rest of the skeleton wasF almost entire .
Some of the praesacral vertebrae recovered show a double costal articulation .
In the trunk and loins the centrum ia cylindroid , reIatively long and slender , with plano-concave , or gently 1 biconcave ends .
Several lumbar centra are ankylosed together , and the hindmost to the sacrum .
The sacrum comprises five stout and short ankylosed centra of a depressed cordiform cross ' : sectional figure .
The front sacral vertebrae have a stout short centrum .
The limb bones are short , their shafts slender , and their articular ends very expanded .
The femur has a third trochanter , and tho distal end of the , tibia has the characteristic dinosaurian figure .
The back and flanks were stoutOy mailed with simple , keeled , and spined scutes , and the tail was also sheathed in armour .
The animal indicated by these remains was of low stature , great strength , and probably slow habits .
It is manifestly a Dinosaur , and is considered to be very nearly related to Eyloe.osaurus .

