On some Properties of Light .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S.Edin .
In a Letter to Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. Read January 28 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 101 .
] The author , having been for some time past engaged in a course of experiments on the refractive and dispersive powers of different substances , the details of which are intended for future publication in a separate work , confines himself , at present , to a relation of such of his results as have most of novelty or importance .
After repeating the experiments that have been made by others on the properties that light acquires by transmission through Iceland-spar , and upon the corresponding properties of reflected light originally discovered by Malus , and by him termed polarization , Dr. Brewster observed a singular appearance of colour on each side of a luminous object , viewed through'a thin slice of laminated agate .
Upon examination of these coloured images through a prism of Iceland-spar , this light was found to be similarly polarized , so as to appear or disappear accordingly as the laminme of the agate were parallel or transverse to the principal section of the spar .
He found also that the colourless light transmitted directly through the agate , and from which the coloured rays had been separated , was polarized as well as the coloured rays , appearing and disappearing alternately with them during the revolution of the spar .
And accordingly when light previously polarized by reflection was received upon the agate , its transmission or reflection depended on the relative position of the laminae of the agate to the plane of reflection ; for when these were at right angles to each other , no light whatever was transmitted .
In the same manner light polarized by transmission through the laminated agate , manifested the usual properties of light so affected by other means .
Along with the polarized light , Dr. Brewster also observed a faint nebulous light not polarized , which he also finds in transmission through cornelian and chalcedony , and thinks it important as leading to a satisfactory theory of polarization .
The next observation of the author relates to the high refractive power of chromate of lead , which , he remarks , is greater than that of any other body hitherto recorded ; and upon its double refraction , which , he says , is so enormous , that the deviation of the extraordinary ray is more than thrice that produced by Iceland-spar .
The index of refraction assigned by Dr. Brewster to chromate of lead , is 2*926 , and along with it he names realgar , of which the index is 2-510 , as another substance that refracts more strongly than the diamond .
Phosphorus , he adds , stands higher than has been supposed , being 2-224 , and then native sulphur next in order 2-115 .
The dispersive power of chromate of lead is observed to exceed that of other substances in a still greater proportion than its refractive power , being more than ten times as great as that of the densest flint-glass , and fifteen times as high as that of water .
The concluding section of the author 's letter relates to the existence of two dispersive powers in all doubly refracting media .
Mr. Cavallo , and others , have already observed , that the dispersions occasioned by the two refractions of Iceland-spar are not equal .
Dr. Brewster observes that this is general to all , and he undertakes to assign the proportion of these two powers in different substances .
In chromate of lead the dispersive power manifested in the rays ordinarily refracted , is double that of rays obliquely refracted ; and in Iceland-spar the disparity is nearly as great .
The existence of a double dispersive power , it is observed by the author , instead of assisting in the explanation pf other properties , only adds one to the numerous difficulties that are to be surmounted in reducing to any general rules those capricious phenomena exhibited by light in its passage through transparent bodies .

