V. " Note on the Density of Ozone .
" By THOMAS ANDREWS , M.D. , F.R.S. , Vice-President of Queen 's College , Belfast , and P. G. TAIT , M.A. , Fellow of St. Peter 's College , Cambridge , and Professor of Mathematics in Queen 's College , Belfast .
Received June 17 , 1857 .
It is known that Ozone can only be obtained mixed with a large excess of oxygen .
In a former communication by one of the authors of this note , it was shown that in the electrolysis of a mixture of 8 parts of water and 1 of sulphuric acid , the mean quantity of Ozone does not exceed '0041 gramme in a litre of oxygen , or -1-th part .
By using a mixture of equal volumes of acid and water , the relative quantity of Ozone may be doubled ; but even with the Ozone in this more concentrated state , the ordinary methods of determining the density of a gas are plainly inapplicable .
The difficulty of the problem was farther increased by the rapid action of Ozone on mercury , which rendered it impossible to collect or measure the gas over that metal ; and the tension of aqueous vapour , as well as the gradual destruction of Ozone by water , prevented the use of the latter .
After numerous trials , the method finally employed was to measure the change of volume which occurs in exposing a gaseous mixture containing Ozone to a temperature of 230 ?
C. , or upwards .
The volume of the gas after this treatment was invariably found to have increased ; and by eliminating the effects of alteration of temperature and pressure during the course of the experiment , by the aid of a similar vessel to that containing the Ozone , the authors succeeded in estimating the change of volume which took place , to an extremely small fraction of the entire amount .
The vessels employed in different experiments varied in capacity from 200 CC .
to 600 CC .
, and terminated in tubes of about 2 millimetres in diameter , bent in a U-form and containing sulphuric acid .
The amount of Ozone was ascertained by passing a stream of the gas through two other vessels , one placed on each side of the vessel to be heated , and afterwards analysing their contents by the method described in the communication already referred to .
It was easy to measure with certainty a change of pressure amounting to 60-0th of the whole ; but on account of the ordinary fluctuations of atmospheric pressure between two consecutive observations of the primary and auxiliary vessels , it was rarely possible to work to this degree of accuracy .
The experimental data have not yet been completely reduced , and some slight corrections have yet to be investigated ; but the general result of the inquiry , which has been a very protracted one , giveson the assumption that Ozone is oxygen in an allotropic conditionfor its density as compared with that of oxygen , nearly the ratio of 4to 1 .
The following approximate formulae were employed in the reduction of the experiments .
They are sufficiently exact for the purpose of calculation on account of the smallness of the quantities observed .
I. To reduce the change of level observed in the auxiliary vessel during the interval of the experiment to the equivalent quantity for the primary vessel(a + H(a + H , )Z ; II .
To deduce from the corrected change of level in the primary vessel the relative density of Ozone and oxygene-l = M(2 + ) IX , In these formula a is the barometric pressure in terms of the sulphuric acid im the U-tubes .
H , the length of a tube of the same diameter as the U-tube of the primary vessel , and whose capacity is equal to that of the same vessel measured to the mean level of the acid in the Utube .
H , , the same quantity for the auxiliary vessel .
&amp; x , , one-half of the change in the difference of levels in the Utube of auxiliary vessel .
6x , the corresponding quantity for the primary vessel .
3x , half the observed change in the primary vessel corrected by the quantity ox .
m , the ratio of the weights of oxygen and Ozone in the gaseous mixture .
e , the relative density of Ozone and oxygen ,

