YIITe Obser7tations on Bees .
By John Hunter , Esq. F. R. Sv Read February 235 s792 .
Ofthe Common Bee .
r. 1 HE corlltnon bee , from a number of peculiarities in its oeco1lomy , has called fort } the attelltion of the curious ; and , from the profit arising from its labours , it has become the object of the interested ; therefore , no wonder it has excited universal attention , even from the savage to the most civilized people : but it has hardly been considered by the anatomist ; at least the two modes of investigation have not gone so much hand in hand , as they ought to have done .
The history of the bee has rather been considered as a fit subject for the curious at large , whence more has been conceived , than observed .
SWAMMERDAM , indeed , has rather erred OI-1 the other side , having , with great industry , been very minute on the particular structure of the bee .
T shall here obserare , that it is commonly not only utlnecessary to be minute in our description of parts itl natural history , but in genetal improper .
It is 1lnnecessary , -when it does not apply to any thing but the thing itself , more especially if it be of no consequence- ; but whenever it applies , then it should so far be treated accurately .
Minuti beyond what is essential , tire the nlind , and render that which should entertain along with instruction , heavy and disagreeable ; the more so too , : if the parts are small , whEre the sense can only take thexm in sir3t , lie , and the mind can hardly coluprehend the hole , or apply all the parts coubined toany consequent action .
Tllis has been too much the case with SWAMMERL)AM ; he often attempted too much accuracy in his description of minute things But the natural history of insects has not been sufficiently understood / at large7 so as to throw lighton this subject where there was an analogy , and where , without such analogy it must appear in the bee alone ullintelligible , from the obscurity attending some parts of their oeconomy ; for there is hardly any species of Rallimals but what has some of its oeconomy obscure ; and probably this is as much so in this insect , as in any other-class of cmimals we are at one season of thefyear almost claily seeing ; yet these parts of the oecotlomy may be evident in some : otherspecies of the same tribe or genus , and thus be clearedup , from-analogy ; so that thexspecies assist eaclliother in their detnorlstration .
This is evident in the nvhole tribe of flying insects , : for what islost , or cannot be made out in the one , may be demonstrated in anotEler and we find there are some things in the oeconomy of the bee that cannot be seen orxdemonstrated in it alone , hut which are evident itl some other insects ; and while they possess the-same yarts , and other circumstances are similar , we must conclude the uses of those parts are similar it-l both ; -for whenever a circumstance in one aninlal cannot he found out in that animal but can in anu others theIl the natural conclusion isy that the uses are similar n both .
Tlough the bee may be classed ill some degree among he dotnestic animalsJ yet firozn there being : such a cluster ACDUC SC : II4 S of them , and because they aroe an offetlsive and irritable -animal , thei:r actions are relldered very osbscure and can only be observed by little starts ; often we cala only see the effiectsS which retlders the knowledge of their oeconomy still imperfect ; they would in many Gases seem to evade our wishes ; they often remove otlt of our sight part of their oeconomys when they can .
TIlus they often remove their eggs and young .
Many quadrupeds do this , as cats , &amp;c. and I have rea 5011 to believe , that birds can remove their eggs , at least I have reason to suspect the sparrow of this .
As the bee is an insect , it has most thitlgs peculiar to that class of altimals : such as are commoll are not to be taken notice of in the history of thisinsect , but only its peculiarities which distinguish it -from ali others , and constittlte it to ber a bee ; and as bees form a large tribe of illsects , 8 it i$ the more singular peculiarities that constitute a distinct species of this tribe .
As most parts of the oecotlomy of insects have not been in every respect und-erstood , and although now known insome itl sectsX yet cannot be observed in the bee , but which accord with many circumstances atterading this-insect , therefore suc.h must be brought into the present history of the bee , to rer:lder it more complete .
I shall not be minute in the anatomy of t}ais animal , as that would be too tedious and unirsteresting .
When we talk of the tconomy of the colony , such as the secreting wax , making co-mbs , collecting farina , honey , feeding the maggots , covering in the -chrysalis , and the honey stinging , &amp;c. ; it nis the labotlring bees that are meant .
In purslling any subject , most things come to light as it were by accident ; that isy many things arise out of mvestigation tl:lat were not at first conceived , and everl znisfortunes in experiments have brought things to our knowledge that wereS not , and probably could not have beel2 previously cQnceived : oll the other hand , I have often devised experiments by the fireside , or in my carriage , and have also conceived the result ; but when I tried the experiment , the result Btas different ; or I found that the expierimeit could not be attended with all the circumstances that were suggested .
As bees , from their nulnbers , hide very much their operations , it is necessary to have such contrivarlees as will explore their oeconomy .
Hives , with glass lights in them , often sllew some of their operations , and when wholly of glass , still more ; but as they fortn such a cluster , and begitl their comb in the centres little can be seen till their work becotnes enlarged , and , by that time , they have produced a mtich larger quantity of bees , so as still to obsctlre their progress .
Very thin glass hives are the best calculated for exposing their operation:s ; the distance from side to side about three inches ; of a height and length sufficient for a surarm of bees to complete one summer 's work in .
As one perpendicular comb , the whole length and height of the hive , in the celltre , dividing it into two , is the best positiOrl for exposing their operations it is necessary to give them a lead or direct-ion to form it so : ; therefore it is proper to make a ridge along the top from end to ends in the centre , X between the two sides , for they like to begin their cotnh from an eminence ; if we wished to have them transverse , or oblique , it would only be necessary to makeX transverse , or obliqueridges in the hive .
I had one made of two broad pieces of plate-glass , with glass ends , which alaswered forsimple exposure very well ; but I often saw operations going orl , when I wished to have caught soi : no of the bees , or to take out-a piece of coml ?
&amp; C. ; therefore I had hives lmade of the same shape and size , but with different panes of glass , each pane opening vs7ith hingesX so that if I saw any thing going oil tl1at I wished to examine more minutely or immediately , I operled the pane at this partS and executed what I wished , as much as was in my power ; this I was obliged to do with great caution , as often the comb was fastened to the glass at this part .
When I saw some operations goig on9 the dates or periods of which I wished to as certain , such as the time of laying eggs , of hatching , &amp;c. I made a little dot with white paint opposite to the cell where the egg was laids and put down the date .
From these animals forming colonies , and from a vast variety of effects being produced3 and with a degree of attention and llicety , that seem even to vie with man ; man , not being in the least jealous , has wished to bestow on them nzore than they possess , viz. a reasoninglfaculty ; while every action is only instinctive , and what they carlnot avoid or alter , except irol:n necessity , not from fancy .
They have been supposed to be legislators , even lnathematicians : indeed upon a superficial view , there is some show of reason for such suppositions ; but people have gone much further , and have filled up from thtir imagi nation every blank , but in so unnatural a way , that one reads it , as-if it were the descriptiola of a monster .
Probably , the best wayof treating the history of this insectX is only to describe:what is , and .
the reader will immediately see where authors have been inventing ; however .
there are some assertions that should be particularly taken notice of , such as forming queen bees at pleasure .
Countries that have but little variety in their seasons may 11AVC iIlsects , whose oeconomy is well adapted to this uniformitat , and which would not be suited to a climate uzhose seasons tare very different ; for insects of countries , whose seasotls are strongly marked , as in this , have a period in their life which it is little itl our power to itlvestigate and can scarcely be discovered but by accidents for experiments ofterl give little assistance ; therefore we are obliged to fill up this blank by reasoning , and from analogy ?
where we have any .
This period is principally the winter , ill those insects who live t}rough that season .
Animals of seasotl are somewhat like most vegetables ; wl:lile the common bee is only an aninzal of seasons in the common actions of life , or what may be called its voluntary actionsn and therefore is somewhat likethe human species , suited to everycountry ; which may be the reason why it is so universal an anirllalX for I believe bees are one of the most universal animals known : yet this may arise from cultivation , in consequerlce of which , they have been brought into climatesn where , of themselvesJ they would not have come .
Insects are so small , and so few of them arEe capable of being domesticated , that the duration of their life is not easily ascertained ; therefore we are to rely more on circumstantial , than on positive ordemonstrative proof ; and perhaps the life of the common bee may be least in our power to knosr , for their numbers in the same society make it almost impossible to be ascertained .
From their forming a colony , or society , which keeps stationary , the continuance of this society is known , but to what age the individual liv-es , is not known ; we are certain , howearer , that it is only the labourers and queens that continue the society for the males:die the same year they are formed .
From their fixing on the branches oiE trees , under prqiecting exposed surfaces , when they swarm , we should be inclilled to suppose that they were aIlirnals of a warm climate ; yet their providing liberally for the change of climate , or lather for a change of season , would , on the contrary , make-us believe they were adapted -for challgeableX cii ; Xuates ; or rather , these two circumstances should make us suppose they were fitted for both ; and their universality proves it .
And I do collteive , that in a pretty uniform warm climate5 their cecorlomy may be somewhat different from what it-is in the changeable9 as they would not be under the same neces$ity to lay-up so much st ; ore , and probably might employ their cells in breeding , for a much longer period : however , a good climate agrees with them bestX as also a good seasonitw-an indifferent climate , such as Britain .
We find the colnmon bee in Europe , Asia , Africa , and America .
That they may bel or should be in the three first , is easily supposed , but hosr they came to America is not so readily conceived ; for altlaougld akind of manageableanimal , yetthey do awot lilte such lollg ; confinement in their hives } as would carry them to the West Irudies ) excepting in an ice-hou$e ; fA when I have endeavoured to cotllline them in their hives , they have &lt; s been so restless as to destroy themselrres .
The fbmale and the working bee , I believes in every speci have stings , which ren(lers them an animal of offence , indeedf but rather of fd-efenc-e ; for although they make an attack , I believe it is by wjay of defbnce , excepting when they attack one another , which is-seldom or never with their stings .
As this belollgs more to the labourers , -it shall be considexed when I treat of them in particular .
Of the whole bee tribe , the com mon bee is the easiest irritated ; for as they have property they are jealous of it , and seem to defend it ; but when not laear F it , they are quiVet , and must be hurt before they will sting ; with all this disposition for defence , which is only to secure their property , or themselves , when more closely attacked , yet they have no covetoustless , nor a disposition to obstruct others .
Thus two bees ; or more will be sucking at the same flower , without the first possessor claiming it as his right : a hulldred may be about the Isame drop of honey , if it is beyorld the boundaries of their own right ; but what they have collected they defend .
It is easily known when they mean to sting ; they fly about the obj-ect of their allger very quickly , and by the guicklless of their motion evade being struck or attacked ; vslhich is discovered by the sound of their vings , as if going to give a stroke as they fly , a very different noise from that of the wings when coming home of a fiX &lt; e evelling loaded ^7ith farina , or honey ; it is then a soft contented noise .
When a single bee is attacked by several others , it seems the most passive atlitnal possibleg making no resis-tance , and even hardly seeming to wish to get avv-ay ; and in this mantler thetr allow theluselves to be kilied .
They are perhaps the only insect , that feeds ill the willter and-therefore the only otle that lays up exterllal store ; and as all animals , whether insects or not , that keep quiet in the wsinter , withot either eating at Sall , or eating very little ill -proportion to what they do i-n the summer , gr-ow fat and muscular ill the summer , ( which I term internalstore , ) we see why the common bee need not be fatter at one time than another ; and accordillgly we find them nearly-of the same fitness the year round .
There are accidents befalling hives of bees , thati !
are not easily accounted for .
I had a hive which in the month of November was become quite empty of bees , and upon examination had no honey in it , which was strong in the summer , and had violent attacks snade-uporz itin October by w-asps belonging to a nest in the garden , but appeared quiet when that Ilest was remoxred .
Upon examining this hive , I found only five d-ead bees , and not a drop of honey in arly one cell : there was a good deal of bee bread in different cells scattered up and down the comb , wthich was begome white with mould on its surface .
On the cather hand , I have had swartns die in the winter in the hives , -while there was great plenty of honey in the conabs : what seemed remarkable , they all died with their probosces elongated , and in those which I opened , I found the stomac}ls full of honey , and their intestines filll also of excrementt especially the last part .
Of the Heat of Bees .
Bees are , perhaps , the only insect that produces heat within itself , and were therefore intended to have a tolerably wellregulated warmth , without which , of cour$e , they are very uncomfortable , and soorl die ; and which makes not only a part of their internal oeconomy respecting the individual ; but a part of their external , or common ceconotny , and is therefore necessary to be known .
The heat of beesis ascertainablevby the thermouleters and I shall give the result of experiments made at tvvZo different seasons of the year .
July i8th , at ten in the evening , wind northerly , thermometer at ^G40 , in the open air , I introduced it into the top of a hive full of bees , and in less than lSve minutes it rose to 820 .
I let it starld all night ; at fve in the morning it was down at tgt ; at nine the same nzorning ; , it had risen to 8tg &gt; , and at orze o'clock to -84 , o ; and at nine in the evening it mras dourn to 780 .
December goth , air at 3o , nees at 7go Although bees support a heat nearly eqvlal to that of a quadruped , yet their external covering is not different from that of insects which do not ; there is no difference between their coat and a common flyvs or wasp s , nor are they fatter , all which makes them bad retainers of heat ; therefore they are chilly ; and in a cold too severe for them to be comfortable in they make ul ) for their want of size singly and get into clusters .
A single bee has so little power of keeping itself BJarlms that it preselltly becomes numbedS and almost motionless ; a common night in summer will produce thie ; eSect : a cold capable of producing such effects kills them soon , by which mealls lrast numbers die ; therefore a common bee is obliged to feed and live ill society , to keep itself warm in cold weather .
We know that the consumption of heat may be greater than the power of fornin ; it ; when that is the case , we become sensible of it , and thfen take on such actions as are either instinctisre , such as arise naturally out of the impression , or as reasons custom , or habit direct .
Mally animals , upon the impression of coldJ coii themselves up in their own fur , bringing all their extremities into the centre , or hollowr of the belly ; birds bring a ; lleir feet vlzder the belly , and thrust their bill betweell their ving and body ; many , if llot all , go to the utartnest places ; either from illstinctive pritlciple , or habit : but the bees have no other mode but forming clust-ers and the larger the better .
As they are easily affected by cold , their instinctive principle respecting cold is very strongn as likewise with regard to svet1 WIDCCXCII T I have-seen a swarm hanging out at the door of a hive , ready to take flight , and then return ; a chill has come on , of which I was not sensible , and in a few minutes the whole has gone back into the hive ; and by the cold increasing , I have at length perceilred the cause of their return .
If rain is coming ons we observe them returning home in great quantities , and hardly any abroad .
The eggs cxf bees require this heat as much as themselves , nor will the m-aggot live in a cold of 60 or yoo , nor even their chrysalis This warreth keeps the wax so soft , as to allow them to model it with ease .
It1 glass hivesg or those that have windows of glas-s in tl:letn , we often find a dew on the inside of the glass , especitally when the glass is colder than the air withill : whether thisX is perspiration from the bees , both from their external surface and lungs , or evaporation from the honey , I cannot say .
Bees are very cleanlyanimalsrespectingthemselves , although rwot so respecting the relnains of their young TheyX I believe , seldom or never evacvlate their excrement in the hive .
I have kllown them confined tnany days-without discharging tXne contents of the rectum ; and the moment they got abroad , they evacuated in tI2e air , when flying : and they appear to be very nice in their bodiesn for I have often detected them cleaniig one another , more especially if hy accident they are besmeared with honey .
tRhis animal may be considered alone , or so far as concerns its own oeconomy as an itldividual , which is colxlLtuon to the most solitary animals ; but it Gan also be considered as a member of society , in which it is taking an active parts and in which it becotnes an object of great curiosity .
To consider this society indilridually , it may i said to consist of a femaleL breeders female non-breedersy and rnales : but to consider it as a comlnunity , it may be said to consist only of female l)reeders and non-breeders , the males ansa -ering no other purpose than simply as a male , and are only temporary ; and it is probableX the female breeder is to be considered in no other ligh:t than as a flayer of eggs , and that slle only influences the non-breeders by her presence , being only a bond of utlion for without ller they seem to have no the ; it is her presence that makes them an aggregate allimal .
May we not suppose that the offspring of the gueen have an attachment to the lllother somewhat silllilar to the attacilment of young birds to the female that brings them up ?
for although the times of their attachment are not equal , yet it is the dependence which each has oll its mother , that constitutes the bond ; for bees have none without her : llvvever , the similarity is not exact , for young animals who have lost their llurse will herd togetherll and jointly make the best shifts they can , because in future they are to become sirlgle allimals ; but bees have an eternal stlstinctive dependence on the mother ; probably from there not being distirect seses .
When the queen is lost , this attachment is broke ; they give up industry , probably die ; or , we may suppose , join some other lwive .
tRllis is not the case with those of this tribe , whose queenJsingly forms a colotly ; for although the qutetl is destroyed , yet they go on with that work which is their lot ; as the nvasp , hornet , and hlamble bee Most p-ro bably the whole oeconomy of the bee , which we so much ad mire , belongs to the non-breeders , and depends on their itz$tinctive powers being set to work by the presence of the breenlers that being their only elljoyment ; therefore when we rrs talk of the wollderful oeconomy of bees , it is clliefly the la -bourers at large we are to admire , although the queell gets the principalcredit for the extent of their instilactive properties This economy , in its appearances and operations ?
is somewhat similar to human society , but very different in its first causes and mode of conduct .
The human species sets up its own standard ; the bee has one set up by nature , and therefore fulfils all the necessary purposesu This standard of influenceX which is the breeder , is called the queen , ancS I shall keep to the name , although I do not allow her voluntary influence or power .
The non-breeders are what colupose the his-e , or vllat ; may be called the comlYlunityat large ; arldthe males , aremeremales : each of these parts of the community I shall hereafter consider separately .
To take up the commonbee in arly one period of the year , or , in other urords , in any one month , and carry it round to the same , and observe what happells in that time , is probably incIuding the whole oeconomy of bees ; for although they may live more than one year , whicT } I believe is not known from its not being eas-ily ascertained , yet each year can only be a repetition of the last , as I conctive they are colalplete in the first ; therefore the history of one year may be said to make a whole and of course it is not material at what time in the circle we begin the history .
Perhaps the best time to begin the history of such insects , as only cotne to full gronrth the season they are bred , and live through the winter , and breed the summer following , is BtIlen they emerge from the torpid state , and begin to lareed ; but it might be thought that the common bee is an exception to this rule , because they begin early in the spring to breed generally before they can be observed ; and as they breed to form a colony , which is to go offfrc)m the old stock in order to set out anew , it ; might seem most natural to begill with this cololly , and trace it through its various actions of life for one year , wlaen it a-s it were , regenelates itself , and-comes round to the same pOillt againn that the old stock utas in utllen it threw off this colotly .
Bees , Iike every other arlimal that is taken care of in the time of breeding , or illcubation , and llursed to the age of taking care of itself , cannot be said to have a -period in which we can begin its natural history ; but ill some other insects there is such a period , for they can be trace(l from an egg , becoming totally independent of the parent from the moment of being laid as the silk-worln , &amp;c. There are three periods at which the history of the bee Jnay commence : first , in the spril^g , when the queen begitls to lay her eggs ; in the summer , at the commencement of a new colony ; or ila the autumn , when they are going into withter-quart:ers .
I shall begin the particlllar history of the bsee with the new cololay when nothing is formed ; for it begins thela every thing that can possibly happen afterwards .
When a hive sends offa cololly , it is colntnonly in the ntonth of June , but that will vary according to the season , for in a mild spring bees sometimes swarxn in the middle of May , and very often at the latter end of it .
Before they c.orne off , they commorlly hang about the mouth of the hole , or door of the hive , for some days , as if they had not sufficient room within for such hot weatller , which I believe is weary much the case ; for if cold or mJet weather come orl , they stow themselves very well , and w-ait for fine weathert But swarming appears to be rather a1 &lt; ol ?
eration arising from necessity , for they would seetn laot naturally to sNZarm , becavlse if they have all emI3ty space to fill , they do tlot ssrarm ; therefore by increasing the size of the lliere , the ssrarming is prevented .
TIlis periocI is much 2 lotzger ill sollle than in othel s. For some evelaings before they come off , is often heard a singular noise , a kind of ring , or soutld of a small tru1upet ; by comparing it with the notes of the piano-forte , it seemed to be the same sound with the lower A of the treble .
The swarm commonly consists of three classes ; a female , or females , $ males , and those commonly called 1nules , xvhich are supposed to be of no sex , and are the labourers ; the whole about tszo quarts in bulk , making about six or seven thousand It is a question that cannot easily be determined , whether this old stock sends offetltirely youllg of the same season , and whether the whole of their young ones , or only part .
As the males are entirely bred in the same seasons part go off ; but part must stay , and nlost Sprobably it is so s-ith the others .
rRlley commonly come off in the heat of the day , oftet1 immediately after a shower ; who takes the lead I do llot know , but should suppose it was the queen.\Yhen one goes oS , they all ilumediately follow , a1ad fly about seemingly in great confL1sion , although there is one principle actuating tlse wl1ole .
They SOOll appear t ; o be directed to some fixed place ; such as the brallch of a tree or bush , the cavities of old tlees , holes of houses leading into some hollow place ; and whenever the stand is made , tl1ey all immediately repair to it , till they are all collected .
But it would seern , in some cases , that they had not fixed upon any resting *I have reason to believe that rlever } nor than oil female comes oF with a swarmZ place before thg came oS , : or if they had , -that they were either disturbed if it was near or that it was at a g ; reat distance ; forg after hovering some time as if undetermined , they fly away , mount up into the air , and go off with great rrelocity .
When they have fised upOll their future hahitationj they immediately begin to make their combs , for they have the materials within themselves .
I have reatson to belieare that they fill their crops Mith honey when they Gome away ; probably from the stock in the hive .
I killed several of those that came aw-ayand follnd their crops full , while those that remained i ftliehive had their crops not near so full : some of thera : carne away ttith farina on their legss which I conceive to be rather accidental .
I may just observe here7 that a hive comluonly sends offtwoy sometimes three swarms in a summer ; butthat the second is comlnonly less than the firstt and the third less than the second^ ; and this last has seldom time to provide for the winXter : they shalloften theatentoswarm , butdonot ; whetherthe threatenix-g is ovwing to too many bees , and their not swarming is owing to therebeing no queell , I do not know .
It sometimes happens that the swarm shall go back agaill ; but in such instances I have reason to think that they have lost their queen^ , .
for the hier-es to which their swarm have come back do llot swarm the next warm day7 but shall hang out for-a fortnight , or more , and then swarm ; and when they d ; o , thei swarm is commonly much larger than before , which makes me suspect that they waited for the queen that was to have gorle o\#163 ; with the next swarzzl- .
So far we have set the cololay in motion .
The materials of their dwelli-ng , or comb- ) which is the wax is the next COllSideration , with the mode of form-ing , preparing5 or disposing of it .
Itz giving a totally new account of the wax , I shaII first.show it ca2l hardly be what it has been supposed to be .
First , I shall observe that the materials , as they are found composing the comb , are not to be fotlnd in the same state ( as a composition ) ill anJr vegetalJle , where they have lJeell supposed to be got .
The substance brotlt , ht in on their legs , which is the faritla of the flowers of plants , is , in common , I believe , imagined to be the tuaterials of which the wax is made , for it is called by lXlOSt the wax : lout it is the farina , for it is always of the same coloul as the farilla of the flower vsrllere they are gathering ; and indeed we see them -gathering it , and we also see thel covered almost all over with it ) like a dust ; nevertheless , it has been supposed to be the waxs or fthat the wax was extracted from it .
XEAUMUR is of this opinion .
I made several experiments to see if there was such a quantity of oil in it , as would account for the quantity of wax to be forlueds and to Ieartl if it was-composed of oil .
I helcI it near the candle ; it burnt , but did not smell like wax , and had the salve smel ] , when burning , as farina when it was burnt .
I observed that this substance was of different colours on different bees , but alvvrays of the same colour on both legs of the same bee ; hereas new made comb wa-s all of c)he colour .
I observed that it was gathered with more avidity for old 11ives , wthere the comb is complete , than for those hives where it is only begutl which we could hardly conceive if it was the materials of MIAX : --glSO we may observe , that at the stery beginlaing of a hive , the bees ; seldom bring ill\aily substance on their legs for two or three days , and after that the farina gatherers begin to illcrease ; for rlonv some cells are formed to hold it as a store , and some eggs are laid , which when hatched will require this substance a$ food ; and which urill be-ready whthe weather 0-is-wJet .
Iz have also olbserved , that sn hen thfe wseather has either tbeexl so cold , or so wet in June , as to hinder a t70ung swarl:n from gOilZg abroad , they have yet in that time formed as l-much t1tW COnlb , as:they did in the same time -when the weather was suchi as al lowed them to go abroad .
I have seen them bring it in about the latter etlct of March , and hav-e oleserved itl glass hives the bees with the farina on their legs , and have seetl them disposig of it- , as wtill be described hereafter .
Tlle wax is forlaied by the bees thelzaselves ; it may be called an exterllal secretion of oil and I have found that it is fortned between-each scale of the under side of the belty .
V\ ; llen I. first observed-this substan0( &gt; e , itl ny exatnination of the workw ing bees zI was at a loss to say what it was : I asked myself if it was tlew scales forming , and whether they cast the old , as the lobster &amp;c. does ?
but it was to be found only betvveerlthe scales , on the lowrer side of the bellyv On examining the bees through glass 11ivesn while they were clilnbing up the glass , I-could see that most of them had this substance , for it looked as if the lower , or posterlor edge of the scale , was double or that there were double scales ; but I perceived it was loose , not attached .
Finding that tho substance brouglt in on their legs was farina , intended S as appeared from every circglmstance , to be the food of the maggot and not to naake\\tElX ; and not having yet perceis7ed any thig that could give lue the least idea of wax ; I conceived t !
es scales might be it , at least I thought it necessary to iavesbigate them .
I therefore took several on the poin 6 of a needleg and lleld them to a caadle , &gt; here they melted , and iumediately formed themselves into a rour:d gIobe ; upon othich I rlo longer doubted but this was the wax , which opinion was confirmed to me by not finding those scales but in the building season .
In the bottom of the hive we see a good many of the scales lying loose , sonze pretty perfect , others inS pieces .
-I have endeavoured to catch them , either taking this matter out of themselves , from between the scales of : the abdomena or from one another , but never could satisfy myself in this respect : howevern I once caught a bee examining betweerl the scales of the belly of another , but I could not find that ittook any thing fkolzl bQtween .
We ; very often -see some of the bees wagging their belly , as if ticliled , running rourld , and to and fro for only alittle way , followed by one or two other bees , as if exanzining them .
I conceived they were probably Jhaking out the scales of Btax , and that the others were ready upon the watch to catch them but -I could not absolutely de tertnine what ; they dld- .
It is with these scales-that they formf the ( ells called tlwe colub but perhaps not erltirely for , I 12elieve , they mix farina with zt ; however , this only occasionallyy when probably : the secret-iortw is not itl great plentys : I have some r@ason to think , that where no other substance is introduced , ^ the t ; hiGJkrless of the scale is the same with that of the sides of the comb ; if so , then a comb may be no more thana number of these united ; but a : great deal of the comb seems to b-e too thick for this , and , indeed , would appear to be a mixture , similar to the covering of l:he chrysalis The wrax naturally is hite , but when melted from the comb at large , it is yellow .
I apprehended this might arise from its being stained with honey , the exGrement of the maggotsy and with the bee-bread .
I steeped some white comb in honey , boiled some with farina , as alsowith olel COlllb , but 10 could not say that it was snade yellower Wax , by 1eacTling , is brought back to its natu:ral colour , which is also a proof that i-ts-colour is derived:from some mixture .
I have reason tc ) be}ieve that they take the old comb , when. .
either brolken downy or by any accident renclered useless , and elnploy it agaila ; but this Gan only be witha combs tl-zat haore had no bees hatched ill them , for the rax caaltaot be separated from the silk afterwrards .
REAUMUR supposed that they new worked up the old materialss because he foutld the covering of the chrysalis of a yellonver colour than the other parts of the rlew-comb ; but this is always so , whether they have old yellow comb to work up , or not , as will be shown .
The lJees who gather the farilla , also form the urax , for I foutld it between their scales The cells , or rather the congeries of cells , which compose the c-omb , may be said to form perpendicular plates , or partitions , which extend from top to bottom of the cavity itl which they build them , and from side to side .
They always begill at the top or roof of the vault , in which they build , and work downwards ; but if the -upper part of this vault , to which their combs are fixed , is r enlcoved , and a dome is put over , they begza at the upper edge of the old comb , and work up into the new cavity at the top e rlthey generally may be guided as to the direction of their new plates of comb , by fortning ridges at top , to which they begin to attach their c ?
omb .
Ill a lotlg hive , if these ridges are longitudinal , their plates of comb will be longitudirwal l if placed transverse , so will be the plates ; and if oblique , the plates of colnb wi:ll be oblique .
Each plate consists of a double set of cells , whose botto-ms form the partition between each set .
The plates thernsolves are not very regularly arranged , not for-ming a regular plane where they Pnight have done so ; but are often adapted to the situation9 or shape of the cavity in which they are built .
; The bees do not -endeavour to shape their cavity to their work , as the wasps dc ) , nor are the cells of equal depths ; also fitting them to their situatic)rl ; but as the breeding cells must all be of a given depthS they reserve a sufficient number for breeding in , and they put the honey into the others , as also into the shallow ones .
The attachment of the cornb round the cavity is not continued , but ilwterrupted , so as to fortn passages ; there are also passages in the middle of the plates , especially if there be a cross stick to support the comb ; these allosv of bees to go acrcess from plate to p]ate .
The substance which they use for att-aching their combs to surrourlding parts is llOt the sasne as the comlnoll wax ; it is soRer and tougher , a good deal like the substan\#163 ; e with -which they coverz in their clarysalis , or the humble bee surrounds her eggs .
Itis pro bably a lmixture of -w ax with farina .
The cellsare placed laearly horizontally , but not exactly so ; the nlouth raised a l-ittle , which p-robably may be to retain the honey the better ; however tiliS rule is not strictly observed , for often they are horizontal , and tonvards the-loX-er edge of a plane of comb they are often de clining .
The first colnbs that a hive forms are the smallestg and much neater than the last , or lowermost .
Their sidesg .
or partitions between cell and cell , are much thinner , and the hexagon is much more perfect .
The wax is purer , being probably little else but vzax , and it is more brittle .
The lower combs are considerably ]arger , and contain much more wax , or perhaps , more properly , more materials- ; and the cells areat such distances as to allow theIn to be of a round figure : the wax is softer , atldL there is something nised with it .
I ; have observed that the cells are not all of equal size , some being a degree Iarget than the others ; and that the small are the first formed , and of course at the upper part where the bees begin and the larger are nearer the lower part of the comb , or last made : hoBrever , ill hives of particular cotastruction , mJhere the bees may begill to work at one etld and can work both down , and towards the other end , we often find the }arger cells both oll the lower part of the com-bs , and also at the opposite end .
These are formed for these males to be bred in ; and in the hornets and wasps combs , there arelarger cells for the queens to be bred in : these are also formed in the lower r ; ier and the last formed .
1'he first comb mcie il ] a hive , is all of olze colour , viz. al most sarhite ; but it is not so wthite towards the end of the season having then norefof-a yellow castw Of theRoyal Cell .
There is a cell , which is called the Floyal Cell , often three or four of them , solnetimes more ; I have seen eleven , and everl thirteen itl the same hive ; ( orllmonly they a ; re-placed Qn the edge of one or more of the combs , but often on the side of a comb ; howev-er , not in the centre , along wnJith the other cellss like a large one placed among^ the others , but oRen against the rn-outhsof the cells , and proJecting out beyond the common surface of the comb ; but most of tl:aem are fortned from the edge of the comb , which termina-tes-in one of these cells .
The royal cell is much n7ider than the others- , but seldoul so deep .
ltS mouth iswrourld , and appears to be the largest half of an oval in depth , and is declining downwards , itlstead of being hori zolltalX or lateral .
The materials of nlaich it is composed aresofter than common Uwax , rather like the last mentioned , or those of which the lower edge of the plate of comb ss made , -or wiSth which the-bees cover the chrysalis : they have very little rax in their composition , not one third , the rest I con Oceive to be farirla This is:supposed to be the cell in -which thequeerl is bred , but I have-reason to believe that thiskis ouly imagination : for , first , it is too large , and luoreoveri seldomso deep as the large cells n which the males are bred ; whereas , if proportiorled to the letlgth of the queen it ought to be deeper for length of body is her greatest diSererlceF In the second place , its tnouth is plac &gt; ed downwa-rd ; and in the third place , it is never lined with t-hesilken covering of the chrysalis , similar to the cellsof the uales and labourers ; nor do we find excrement at the bottom of it .
The nunlber of these cells is very differentX in different hives .
I think I have seen hives without any , and I have seen them with eleven or twelve , sometimes more .
I have examin-ed them at alI times through the stlmmer , but never bund any alteration Ein them .
The comb seems at first to be fornaed for propagation ?
and the reception of honey to be only a secondary use ; iSor if the l3ees lose their queen , they make no combs ; and the wasps hornet , &amp;c. make combs , although they collect no honey ; and the humble bee collects honey , and deposits it in ; cells she never made .
I shall not consider the bee as an excellent tnathematfician capable of making exact forms , atid having reasoned upon the best shape of the cell for capatity so that the greatest rlumber might be put into the smallest $pace ( for the hornet and the wasp are much more correct although not seemingly t-nder the same ruecessity , as they collect nothing to OGoUpy their cells ) ; because , although the bee is pretty perfec.t in these xespects , yet it is very incorrect in others , in the formation of the comb- : nor shall I consider these animals as forming cotuS of certain shape and size , from mere mecharlical necessity , as frozn wForking rou-rld themselares ; for such a mould would not form cells of different sizes , much less could wasps be guided by the same principle , as their cells are of very different sizes , and the first by much too small for the queen wasp to haveF worked round herself : but Ishall consicler the whole as an instinctive priciple , in which the animal has no power of variation , or choice , but suchas arises fromf what may be called external necessity .
The cell has in common six sides , but this is most correct in those Srst formed ; and their bottom is commotlly composed of those sidesX or planes , two of the sides making one ; and they generally i11 in bet-ween the bottoms of three cells of the .
opposite side ; but this-is not regular , it ise only to be found where there is no external interruption .
I have already observed , that the last fc)rmed cells in the seasorl are not so well macle : that their partitionsare thicker , and lnoreofa-yellow Golour : this arises , Iitna ; in , from the rax being less pure , having more all:oy in it ; and therefore not being so strong , more of it is required .
The bees sroulcl appear to reserve many of their cells for honey , andtllose are mostly at the upper part .
In old : ; hives , ofseveral years standing , I haxre found the upper part of the comb free from the consequences of having bred , such as the silk lining , and the excrem-ent of the magg-ots at the bottom ; while the lower part , for probably more than one : half of the plane of cells , showed strong m ; arks of halring colltained many br-oods of yourlg bee$v .
Insuch the lining of silk is thick at the sides , composed of many laminae ; and in many , the bottorn is half filled up with excrement ; and I observed at sllcll parts , the comb was thiel &lt; ; est at its lnouth , which inclines me to think ) that w:llen a cell becomes shallow , by the bottom being in some degree filled up , the bees then add to its lmouth .
Such also they seetn to reserve principally for the bee-bread ; so that to lay up a greater store of honey is an object to them Of lbe Laying^-of Eggs .
As soon as a few combs are fcormed , the female bee beglns 1ay ing of eggs .
As far--as I have been able to observe , the queen is the only hee that propagates , althotagh it is asserted that the lad bourers do .
Her first eggs ilthe seasox ] are those which produce labouret s ; then the males , and probably the queen ; this is the progress in the wasp , hortlet , llumble bee , &amp;c. However , it is asserted by RIEM , that when a hive is deprived of a queen , labourers lay eggs ; also , that at this time , some honey and farina are brought in , as store for a wet day .
The eggs are laid at the bottotn of the cell ) and we find them there before the cells are half completed , so that propagation begins early and goes on along with the formation of the other cells .
The egg is attached at one end to the bottom of the cell , sometimes statlding perpendicularly , often obliquely ; it has a glutirlous , or slimy covertlg , which makes it stick to any thing it touchesX It would appear^ that there was a period or periods for laying eggs ; for I have observed in a new swarm , that the great business of laying eggs did llOt last above a fortnight ; although the hive was not half filled with comb , it began to slacken Probably that erld of the egg which is first protruded , isvllat which s:ticks to the bottom of the cell * and probably the tail of the rriaggot is formed at that eI &lt; d : when they move the egg , how they n:lake it stick again , I do not know .
I halre just observed , that they often move the egg out of a cell , to some other , we may suppose ; why they do this , I cannot say ; vllether it is because we have been exposing this partg is not easily determined In those new formed colubs , as also in many not half finished , we find the substance called bee-bread , azd some of it is covered over with wax ; which will be considered further .
By the time they have worked aboure half way down the hive , with the comb , they are begilaning to form the larger cells , and by this time the first broods are hatched , which were small , orlabourers ; and now they beginto breed:males , and profbably a queen , for a new swarm ; because the males are ( llow bred to impregnatethe young queen Efor the present sutumer , as also for the Ilext year .
This progt ess in breeding is the same with that ofs the wasp , hornet , and hunlble bee.* Altlwough this acsount is commonly allowed , yet writers on this subject have supposed another mode of producing a queen , when the hive is in possession of tnaggots , and deprived of their queerl .
What may be called the complete process of the egg , namely , from the time of laying to the birth of the bee , ( that is , the time of hatching , ) the life of the maggot , and the life of the chrysalis , is , I believe , shorter than ill most insects .
It is llot easy to fix the time when the eggs hate}l : I have been led to ima ; gin it was in fist days .
NVhell they laatch ) we find the young maggot lying coiled up in the bottcum of the cell , ia some degree surrounded with a transparent fluid .
In many of the cells , where the eggs have just hatched , 0ve filled the skin statlding in its place either llOt yet rtlY10VEd Ol ' NQt pressed dowz bythe lmaggot .
There is rwosr all additional eluploylnent for the labourers , ralnely , the feeding and rtlrsing the young tnaggcets\Ve may suppose the queen has nothilg to do with this , as there are at all tinaes -labourers enough in the hive tor such ptlrposes , Cespecially too , as she nester does bring the materials , as every other of the triM is obliged to ci-o at lSrst ; thereforea she seelns to be a queen by llereditaryn or ratlaer2 by nattlral right , rwhile the hlltnble bee , svaspv hornet , &amp;c. seem rather to work theDmselrres into royal-tyn or lmistresses of the commullity .
The bees are readily detected feeding the youllg lmaggot ; and indeed a young maggot might easily be brought up ) by any person who would be attelltiere to feed it .
rlnhetr opell their tsnro lateral pincers to receive the food , and swallow ity As they grow they Gast their GOt-S , or cuticles ; but how often they throw theircoats while itl the lnaggot state I do not knonv .
; I observed that they often r-emoved their eggs ; I also filled they very often shift the maggot xilltO another cell , evell when very larfge0 .
he nzaggots grow larger and larger till they nearly fi11 the cell ; and by this time they require no more food , and are ready to be illclosed for the chrysalis state : how this period is ( liscovered I do llot know , for in every other insect , as far as I -am acquainted , it is an operation of the maggot or caterpillar itself ; but in the comzmon bee it is an operation of the perfbet azzilnal ; probably it arises from the maggot refusing food .
the time between their being hatched and their being enclosed is , J beliese , fgr klays ; at least from repeated obsersations , it conles rlearly to that time : when ready for the chrysalis state , the bees cover over the mouth of the cell , with a substance of a light brovvrn colour , much in the same manner that they cover theb honey , excepting that in the present itlstance , the covering is convex externally , and appears not to be entirely wax , but a mixture of wax and fariiza .
The maggot is now periectly enclosed , and it begins to line the cell and : covering-of the nlouth above ulentioned , with a silk it spins out similar to the silk-vwrorm .
and which makes a kind of pod for the chrysalis .
BONNET observed , that , in one ilastarlce ) Xhe cell was too short for the chrysalis , and it broke its covering , and formed its pod higher , or more convex than comlxloll : this I can conceive possible ; we often see it in the wasp .
Having completed this lining they cast off , or rather silove oS , from the head backsvards the last maggot coat which is deposited at the bottom of the cil , and then they biecome chrysalises .
C)f the Food of the Maggot or what is corrznonly called Bee-Br-ead .
C ) no srould naturally suppose , that tlile food of the nlaggcat bee should be hoiley , both becallse it is the food of the old onesg and it is what they appear rincipally to collect for themselves ; ho &gt; tever , the circulmstance of honey being food for the olcl Q2S iSX no argutzielat .
because very few youngD anitnals live Qu the same food with theold , and therefore it is probalele the maggot bee does twt live -uponlboney ; and if we reason from analogy , we shall be lecS to supE)pse the bee-breacl to be the foodX 2 of the luaggot .
It is the food of the maggot of the Xhumble bee , whozfeeds UpOll honey , al---even lays up a store of llozey for a wet day , yet does not feedthe young with it .
It is the fc)od of the maggot ; of a black bee , and also of several others of the solit ; ary kind , who also feed UpOll honey ; and wasps , &amp;c. who do not r bring in such materials , do not feed thenaselses upon holley .
We cannot SUppOSe3 that the bee-bread is for thefood of the old bees , when we see them collecting it in the months of Jtlne , July , &amp;c. at which time they have holley in great plenttr .
This substance is as common to a hive as atay part belonging to the oec-onomy of bees .
Before they haveformed five or six square inches of comb in a young hive we shall find eggs honey , and bee-bread ; and at whatever time of the year we kill a hive , we shall find this substance ; and if a hiveis short of hoey , and dies in the winter we fild no honey , but all the bee-bread , which was laid up in store for the maggots in the sl ?
ring .
they tAe great care of it for it is often covered over with wax , as the honey and I beIieve more especially in the winter ; probably with a view to preserare it till wanted .
In April I have foutld some of the cells full , others vnly half full .
If we slit down a cell filled with this substance , we shall colnmonly find it composed of layers of different colours ; sc)me a deep orarlge , others a pale browrn .
Ixl glass hives , we often find that the glass makes one side of the cell , and frequently in such we shall see at once the different st ; rata above mentioned .
This is the substance which they bring in on their legs , and consists of the farina of plants .
It issnot the farina of every plantS that the bee collects , at least they are found gathering it from some with great industry , while wenever find them on others : St. John'sAwort is a favourite plant ?
but that comes late .
The flower of the gourd , cucumber , &amp;c. they seem to be fond of .
What they do collect INUSt be thVe very loose stuff , just ready to be blown off-to impregnate the female part of trle flow-er ; and to show that this is the caseX VvJe find bees impregnate flowers that have not the male part .
It is in common of a yellow cc)lour ) but that of rely different shades , Qfien of an orange ; and when we see beesScollecting it on buffies that have a great many flowers so as to furnish a complete loalX it is then of the colour of the farina of that -bush It is curious to see them dieposite this substance in the cell .
On viewing the hives , we often see bees with this substance on their legs ) moving along on the combs as if looking out for thecell to deposit it in .
rlnhey will often walk over a cell that has some deposited in it-but shall leave that , and try an other , and so on till they fiX ; hich made me conceive that each bee had its o-wll cell .
When they come to the intended cell , they put their two hind legs into it , with the two fore legs and the trunk out on the moutTl of the neighbouring cell , and then the tail ) or belly , is thrust down into the intended cell ; they then bring the leg under the bUlly5and turning the point of the tail to the outside of the leg , where the farina is , they shove it oWby the point of the tail .
When it is thus shoved off both legss the bee leaves it , and the two pieces of farina may be seetl lying at the bottom of the cell : another bee comes almost : illlmediately and creeping into the cell continues about five minutes9 kneading and working it dowZn into the bottomX or spreads it over what was deposited there before ) leaving it a srxlooth svrface .
It is of a consisterlcy like paste l bllrtls slightlys and gives a ki-rld of unusual xsmell , probably from having been missed with allimal juice in the act of k-lleading it down ; for when brought in , it is rather a powder thean a paste .
That it is the food of the maggot is proved by examining the allimalvs stomacEl ; lor when we kill a lnaggot full grown , we filled its stonach full of a similar substance , only softer , as if mixed with a fluid , but we 1lever find Ilolley ill the stomach ; therefore wre clre to suppose it is collecteel as food for the maggot , as mtlch as holley is for the old be-e .
Mr. SCHIRACH imagilles , that the semen of the male is the lood of the maggot ; but the food of the lzzale and the queen maggot has been supposed to be different from that of the labourers .
REAUMUR says , the food of the queen maggot is differeIlt in taste from that of the c ommoll ones .
How he kllew this , who was unacquaillted ^vitl the food of the others , I callnot conceive Of t1pe Excrement of the Maggot .
They have very little excrement , but xvhat they do discharge is deposited at the bottom of the cell ; and what at first will appear rather extraordilaary , it is never cleared away by the bees , but allowed to dry alonO with the maggot coats ; and both fresh eggs and honey are deposited ill these cells , so circumstanced , every future yeal ; so that in time the cells become nearly half full .
Of the Chrysalis State .
In this state they are forming themselves for a new life : they are either elltirely new built , or wonderfully changed , for there is not the smallest vestige of the old form remail-ling ; yet it must be the same materials , for now nothing is takell in .
How { ar this change is only the old parts new modelled , odr gradually altering their form , -is noteasily determined .
To bring about the chalage , many parts must be removed , out of which the new ones are probably formed .
As bees are not different rin this state from the common flying insects in general , I shall not pursue the subject of theirchallges further ; although it makes a very material:part in theX natural history of insects .
-When the chrysalis ris formed into the complete bee , it then destroys the cofirerilg of its cell , and comes forth .
The time it continues in this state is easier ascertained than either in that o\#163 ; the egg , or the maggot ; for the beesScatlnot move the chrysaliss as they do the two others .
In one instance it was thirteen days ; and twelve hou-rs exactly ; so tflhat all egg in hatching being five days , the age of the maggot being four daysX and the chrysalis -continuing thirteen and a half , the whole makes tsnrenty-two daysSand a h-alf : but how far this is accurates I uzill rzot pretend to say .
I found that the chrysalis of a male was -fourteen days , but this was probably a-ccidental .
Wllenf they first cozle out , they are of a greyish colour , but s-o-on turlt brouTn.\Alhell the swarln of which I have hitherto been giVilzg the history has conze oWearly , and is ja large one , more especialIy if it was put into too small a hive , it often breeds too nzany for the hive to keep through the wi:tlter ; and in suchS ase a new swart-n is thrown oS , which however , is comluonly ot a large one , and getlerally has too little time to complete-its comb , and store it with honey sufficient to preserrre them though the winter .
This issitnilar tot the secolldb or thild swar-la-:oftSlze oldhives Of the Seasons , when the dyerent Operations of Bees take place .
t have already observed , that the new colony imlnediately sets about the increase of their numbers , and every thing relating to it .
They had their apartments to build , both for the purpose of breeding , and as a storehouse for pros isions for the uZinter .
When the season for laying eggs is over , then is the season for collecting honey ; therefole , when the last chrysalis for the season comes forth , its cell is immediately filled with laoney , and as soon as a cell is full , it is covered ourer with pure wax , and is to be considered as store for the vinter .
Tllis covering ansvsters tBJo very essexltial purposes : one is to keep it from spilling , or daubing the bees : the other to prevent its evaporation , by which lllearls it is kept fluid in such a warmth .
They are also employed in laying up a store of bee-bread for the young tnaggots in the spring , for they begin to bring fortl much earlier than probably any other insect , because they retain a summer heat , and store up food for the youlag .
In the tnollth of August we may su}vpose the queen , or queens , are impregnated by the males ; and as the luales do not provide for themselves , they become burdensome to the workers , and are therefore teased to death much sooner than they othervise vould die ; and when the bees set about this business , of providing their winter store , every operation is over , except the collecting of honey and bee-bread .
At this time it would seelll as if the males aere conscious of their dangerX for they do IlOt rest on the mouth of the hive in either going out or coming inn but hurry either inX or out .
however .
they are comlnonly attacked by on-e , tvo , or three at a time .
tIley seem to make-no resistance only getting away as ist as possible .
The labourers do not sting thenz only pincla thems and pull them about as if to wear them out ; but I suspect it may be called as much a natural as a violent death .
The whole of the males are now destroyed azd iladeed it would have been useless to have saved any to impregnate the queen in the spring That there may be many more than may be-wanted I call easily believe , for this we seethroughout nature ; but she always times her operatIons-well although there may be supernulueraries Whe-l the young are wholly colue forthv and either the cells entirely filled or no more honey to be collected then is the time , or season for remaining in their hives for the winter .
Although I have I1OW completed a hive and no operations are gOing on in the wilater months yet the history of this hive is imperfect till it sends forth a new swarmF As the co-mmon bee is very susceptible of cold , we fnd as soon as the cold veather sets sn they become very quiet , or still and remaitl so throughout the winter living on the pro-duce of the sutnmer and autumn ; and illdeed a cold day in the suxnmer is sufficient to lieep them at hotne more so than a shower in a warm day : andL if the hive is thin , and muclS ex posed , they 1vill hardly move in it , but get as clow together as the comb will let themX into a cluster .
In this manner they appear to live through the winter : however in a fine days they become very lively and activet going abroad and appearing to emoy its at which time they get rid of their excrement ; for I fancy they seldom throw out their exorement when in the MpGCXClI Y lwive .
To prosre this , I collfirled some bees in a small hive , &amp; and fe(l them witho honey for some days ; and the moment I let t11en out , they flesY , and threw out their excrement ill large quantities ; and therefore , in the winterv I presullle , they retai the contents of their boxNels for a considerable time : indeed , wlaen we consider their confitlelllent in the wintera and that they have no place to deposit their excrement , we can hardly account for the whole of this operation in them .
Their exerenent is of a yellow colour , and according to their confinement it is found higher and higher up in the intestine , altnost as hsgh as the cropb Their life at this season of the year is more uniforln , and 1nay be termed simple existence , till the warm weather arrives agail ] .
As they now subsist on their summer 's inclustry ) they would seem to feed in proportion to the coldness of the season ; for from eXperilnent ) I found the hive grow lighter in a cold week , than it did ill a w-arwmer , which led to further experiments .
I first ; made an experiment upon a bee hive , to ascertain the quantity of horley lost throug ; h the winter .
The hive was put into the scale November the Sd , 1776 .
Oz .
drams November loth it had lost e7 17th 4 22 24th g 72 Decenber lst 82 8th 21 sth 2 2ed 43 2gth 4 9777 January lst ---ff S os .
drams 3anuary fl 2th t had lost sM lgth 34 26th g12 February 2d , o gth r , 7O The whole 72og Although all irldelent state is very much the condotion of bees through the winter , yet progress is making in the queen towards a sumluer 's iilerease .
rrhe eggs in the oviducts are begillning to swell , and , I believe , Ein the nlonth of March she is ready to lay them , for the young bees are to swarm ill June ; which constitutes the queen bee to b@ the earliest breedor o\#163 ; any itlsect we know .
In consequence of this , the labourers become sooner emplDyed than any other of this tribe of insects .
This both queen and labourers are enabled to accomplish , from living in society through the winter ; and it becolnes no cessary in them , as they have their colotly to form early in the sutnmer , which is to provide for itself for the winter following All this requires the process to be carried forward earlier than by ally other insect , for these are only to have young which are to take care of themselves through the sumrner , not being under the necessity of providing for the winter .
In the montil of-April , I found in the cells , youtlg bees , in all stages , from the egg to the chrysalis state ; some of which were changed in their colour , therefores were nearly arrived at the fly state , azd prolDably some might have flow-n .
As this season is too early br collecting the provisiola of the maggc)t ahroadv the store of\#163 ; irina colnes nonv into use X but as soon as floters begin to blow , the bees : gather the fresh , although they llalre farina in store , giving the fresh the preference .
( 2f the Q , ueen .
The queen bee , as she is termed , has excited nzore curiosity than all the others , altholugh much more belongs to the labourers .
From the number of these , and from thelr exposing themselves , they have their history much better made out : but as there is oly one queen , and she scarcely ever seen , it being only the effects of her labour we can come at , an opportunity has been given to the ingenuity of conjecture , and more has been said than can well be proved .
She is allowed to be bred in the common way , only that there is a peculiar cell for her in her first stage ; and REAUMUR says , " her food is dif " ferent when in the maggot state - ; ) } but as there is probably but one queen , that the whole might not deperld on one life it is asserted that the labourers have a power of forming a com:non naggot into a queen .
If authors had given us this as all opinion only , we might have passed it over as improbable , but they have-endeavoured to prove it by experiments , which require to be examined : and for that purpose , I shall give what they say on that head^*with my remarks upon it .
Abstracts from Mr. SCHIRACH .
The following experiments were made to ascertain the origin of the queen bee : " In twelve wooden boxes vere placed ; ; twelve pieces of comb , four inches square , each containing both eggs and maggots , so suspended that the bees could &lt; ; cottttle round every part of the comb : in each box was , shut up a handfill of working bees .
Knowing that when bees " are formin ; a quten they should be confined , $ the boxes c ; were kept shut for two days .
When examined at the end { ; of that period ( six boxes only were opened ) , in all oftheln " royal cells were begutl , one , two , or three , in each ; all of ; these containing a maggot four days old .
In four days , the ; ' other sis boxes were-opened and royal cells found ill each , cc containiIlg maggots five days old , surrounded by a large provision of jelly ; and one of these maggots , examined in ; the microscope ?
in every respect resembled a working bee .
( This experiment Bras repeated , and the maggots se '-lected to be made queens were : three days Qold ; and in sc seventeen days there ulere found in the-twelve l)oxes fifL ; teen lively , handsome queens .
+ lthese expez iments were ' made in May , and the bees were allowed to work great 4 ' part of the sumlner : the bees were examined one by one , { ' but no drone could be discovered , and yet the queens were &lt; ' impregnated , and laid their eggs .
+ " The above experiment was repeated with pieces of comb , * Hoxv he came to know this , I cannot conceive , for nothing a przori could give such infiormation .
t Now this account is not only improbable , but it does not tally with itselE First , it is not probable that a handful of bees should or would , set about making two9 three , or four queens , when we do not find that number in a large hive : and secondly , it seems inconsistent that only fifteen should be formed out of twelve parcels , when some of the former parcels had four yollng queens .
t Here is a szonder of another kind : queens laying eggs , which ( we must sup posX Mr. Sc HIRACH meant we should believe ) they hatched , without the innencc ef the malecontaining eggs only , ill six l)o\#163 ; es , but no preparations " were made towards producing a quten .
t ; ' The experiment of producing a queerl bee from a mag$ot ; ' was repeated every month of the year , evela in November.t 'A maggot three days old was procured frorrl a friend , in ' closed in an ordinary GEll , and shut up with a p-iece of comb , ' containing eggs and maggots .
That three days old was ' fornzed into a queen , and all the other maggcats and eggs ' ; were destroyed .
4 .
" Ixl above a llundred experiments a clueen has been formed c ; f}oln maggots three days olcI.9 &gt; S WILHELMI ob$erves , that a queen cell ahllich is made while the bees are sllut up , iSs formed by breaking down three comtnon cells into one , when the nlaggot is placed in the centres after which the sides are repaired .
A young queen lately hatched was put into a hive , which had been previously ascertairled to contain no drorzes , and whose queell was renloved ; and yet tlaeyoullg queen laid eggs.ll In repeating Mr. SCHIRACLI &gt; S experiment , he shut up four ; * Why eggs , which we must collceive hatched , and prouluced maggots , did not forrli queens , one cannot imagine .
t In which month , as bees never swarm , there could be no occasion for motherss or supernumerary queens , and stills each experiment pr ; duced a handsome queen .
This is as singular an observation as Fny .
In this country , and in all similar ones , bees hardly breed after July , and by the begitltsing of September there is hardly a chrysalis to be seen ; yet these bred till November , and even laid eggs .
t Why did the bees destroy them in this experiment , and not in others ?
S The working bees , from the above experiments , are considered as all fiemaless although the ovaria are too small for examination .
It would appear that a maggot three days old was of the best age for this experi meant , yet one should have conceived that a maggot two days old wollld soon be-fit , 11 There is no mystery in this ; but did they hatch ?
pieces of comb , with one maggot in each ; after two days the maggots were all dead , and the bees had desisted from labour .
@A piece of comb , from which all the eggs and tnaggots had been removed , was sllut tIp with some honey , and a certai nulnber of wtorkers ; in a short time they became very busy , and upon the evening of the second day 300 eggs were found in the cells .
+ He repeated this experiment with the same result , and the bees were left to themselves : they placed queell maggots in the queen cells , newly constructed ) and others in male-cells : the rest were left undisturbed .
He again took two pieces of colubj which colltained neither eggs nor maggots , and shut them up with a certain number of workers , and carried the hox into a stove : next evening ) one of the pieces of colub contained several eggs , and the beginning o\#163 ; a royal cell that was empty .
Besides the short observations-contaitled in the llotes ) I begleave to observ-e , that I have my doubts respecting the whole of these experiments , from several circumstarlces which occurred in mine .
The three following facts appear much ag ; ainst theirprobability ; ; first , a sum-mervs evening ill this country is com-morlly -too cold for so small a parcel of bees to be lively , so as to set about new operations ; theXyk get so benumbed , that they hardly recover itl the day , and I should suspect that wherethese experiments were madse ( and indeed ; some are said to ; have been tried ill this country ) , it is also too cold : secorldly , .
* This is the most probable event in the whole experiments .
t This would show that labourers can lDe changed into queens at will , and that neither they nor their eggs require to be impregnated ; if this f was the case , .
there ; would be no occasion for all the push in making a queexl or a male .
if the weather should happen to be so warm as to prevent this effect , then they are so restless , that they -commonly de stroy themselves , or wear themselves out ; at least , after a few days confinenwnt we fitld them tnostly dead : and thirdly , the accollnt gisten of the fornation of a royal cell , without mentioning the above inconvenience which is natural to the expe riment , nakes me suspect the whole to be fibricated .
To obviate the first vljjection , which I found from experiment to prevent any success that other0vise nzight arise , I put my parcel of bees , with their comb , in which were eggs , as also maggots , and in some of the trials there were chrysalises , X into a warmer place , suchias a glass frame , over tan , the surface of which w as covered with mould , to prevent the rising of unwholesome air : but from knowing that the mcaggot WaS fed ith bee-bread , or farina , I took care to introduce a cell or two with this substance , as also the flowers of plants that prodllce a- : great deal of it , likewSise some honey for the old ones .
In this state my bees were preserved from the cold , as also provided with necessaries ; but after being confined several days , upon opelling the door of the hive , what were alive came to the door , walked and flew about , but gradually left it , and on examining the combs , &amp;c. I found the maggots dead , and rlothing like any operation going on *I ehose to have some ehrysalises , for I supposed that if my bees died , or flew away , the ehrysalises when they eame out , which would happen in a few days , not knowing where to go , might stay and take ear of the maggots that might be hatched from the eggs ; but , to my surprise , I follud that neither the eggs hatehed , nor did the ehrysalises come forth ; all died : from which I began to suspect that the presenee of the bees was neeessary for both The queen , the mother of all , in vxhatever way produc.ed , is a true female , and different from both the labourers and the male .
She is not so large in the trunk as the male , and appears fto be rather larger in every part than the labourers .
The scales on the urlder su-rface of the belly of the laburers are not uniformly of the same colour , over the whole scale ; that part being lighter which is overlapped bzz the terminating scale above , and the uncovered part being darker : this light part does not terminate in a straight line , but in t%to curves , snaking a peak ; all which gives the belly a lightela colour in the labouring bees : more especially when it is ptllled out or elongated .
The tongue of the female is cotasiderably shorter than that of the labouring bee , more like that of the male : llowever , the torlgues of the labourers are llot in all of an equal length but none have it so short as the queen .
The size of the belIy of the female of such animals varies a little , according to the coladition 8Lhey are in : but the belly of the lmale and the labourer has but little occasion to change its size , as they are at all times nearly in the same conclition with regard to fat , having always plenty *f provisiotl : but the true female varies very considerably ; she is of a different size and shape in theXsutnrner to what she is in thewinter ; and in the wirlter she has what may be called her natural size and shapeb she is , upon the svholeg rather thicker thala the labourer ; and this thickness is also ill the belly , which probably arisesfrom the circumstance of the oviduct being in the wilater pretty large , and the reservoir for semen fulls The termination of the belly is rathermore peaked than ill the lat ourers the last scale being rather narrower from side to siden and colu ing more to a point at the anus .
The scales at this season are uore overlapped , which can only be linown by drawing them out .
In the spring and sunlmer she is more easily distinguished : the belly is not only thicker , but considerably longer than formerly , wX hich arises from the increase of the eggs .
We distinguish a queen from 1 ; he worling bee ) simply lie size , and in some degree by colour ; but this last is not so easily ascertained , because the diXererlce ill the colour is not so remarkable in the back , and the conly view we can coXnmonly get of her is on this part ; but when a hive -is killed , the best way is to collect all the bees , and spread them on white paper9 or l ?
ut them into water , in a broad flat-bottomed shallown white dlsIl7 in which they swim ; and by looking at them singly , she may be discovered .
As the quten breeds the first year she is produced , and the oariduct-s nearer entirely subsiden an old queen is probably thicker than a new bred one , unless indeed the ouriducts , and the eggs , form in the chrysalis state as in the silk-wrorm , which I should suppose they did .
the quten is perhaps at the smallest size just as she has done lareeding , for as she is tc ) lay eggs by the montl:z of Marchs she must begin early to fill again ; but Ielieve her oviducts are neYer emptied , having at all times eggs in them , although but small .
She has fat ill her belly , simi ] are to the other bees .
It is most probable that the queen which goes off mJith the swarm is a young one , forth males go off with the swarm to impregnate her , as she must be impregnated the same years because she breeds the same year .
T ze queen has a sting similar to the workitag bee .
Of the Sumber of DQueens in a Hz7nel I believe a hive or swarm , has but one queen , at least I have rzever found more than one in a swarm , or in an old hive iEl the winter ; and probably this is what constitutes a hive ; for hell there are taro queens , it is likely that a division may begin to take place .
Supernumerary qileens are nientioned by RIEM , wrho asserts he has seen tilenl killed by the labourers , as well as the males .
November 18th , 1788t I killed a llive thathad not swarmed the summit before , and xYhicll was to appearance ready to swarm every day ; but when I supposed the season for swarming vas over , and it had not swarmed , I begatl to suspect that the reason mIhy it did not was owing to there being no young queen or queens ; and I found only one .
Tllis is a kind of presumptive proof that I was right in my cotljecture ; unless it be supposed , that when they were determined not to swartn , they destroyed every queen except one .
In a hive that dieds I found no males , and only one queen .
This circumstances that so few queens are bred , must arise from the natural security the queen is in from the mode of their society ; for , although there is but one queen in a wasp 's , hornet'ss and 11umble bee 's nest or hive , yet these breed a great number of queens ; the wasp and hornet some hundreds ; but not living in society during the winter , they are subject to great destruction , so that probably not one in a hundred lives to bre-ed in the summer .
I have said that the queen leaves off laying in the month d July ; and novf she is to be impregnated by the males before they diet Mr. RIEM assertss he has seen the copulatiola betvsteen the nzale and the felnale , but does not say at uthat seasoll .
I should doubt this S but Mr. SCHIRACH supposes the queen illzpregnated witTaout copulation .
I know not whether he meaas by this that she is not impregnated at all , and supposes , like Mr. DEBRAW , that the eggs are impregnated after they are laid by a set of small dronesX who pass orrer the cells , and thrust theil tails dow-n into the cell , SO as to besmear the egg .
g AIr .
I30NNET does llOt consi(ler it necessary that the drones should be small for this purpose , for he saw a large drone passing over the cells of a piece of comb , stopping at every one which contained atl egg but at no other , and giving a knock with his tail on the mouth of the cell three times ; this he supposexl was the mode of impregnating the eggs .
The number three has always been a famotls number ; but it will not do where there are no males , which is the case of a hive in the spring , the time when the queen is most employed in laying eggs ; which made him suppose the use of the males was to feed the maggots with rtheir semen .
It is probable that the copulation is like that of most othel insects .
The copulation of the hllmble bee I have seen : it is similarfto the common fly .
The sting is extended at the times and turned up oll the back , between the two animals : they are some time itl this act .
In the hornet it is the sameX the circumstances relative to the inlpregnating the queennot being kllown , great room:has been given for conJecture , which , if authors had presented as conjectures onlyt it nwould have shown their candour ; but they have given , wrhat ill them were probably conceits , a$ fact$ + Mr. DEB R AWE , knowing the drones died in the latter end of summer , or the -alltumn , was obligqd to suppose a small set of males , that lived through the winter9:br that purpose .
Of the Male I3ee .
the male bee is considerably larger than the labourers : he ls evell larger than the queen , although not so long when she is in her full state with eggs : he is considerably thicker tharz either but not longer ill the same proportion : he does not terrllirlate at the anus in so sharp a point ; and the Qpening betweell the two iast scales of the back and belly is largery and more under the belly than in the female .
His proboscis is much shorter than that of the labouring bee , which makes me suspect he does not collect his own honey , but takes that which is brought home by the others ; especially as we never fiXld the males abroad on flowers , &amp;c. only { iying about the hives in hot weather , as if taking an airing ; and when we lSnd that the male of the hulnble bee , which collects its own food , has as long a proboscis or tongue , as the female , I think it is from all these facts reasonable to suppose ?
the male of the common bee feeds-at home .
He has no sting .
The males , I believe , are later in being bred than the labouring bee As they are only produced to go off with a hive , they are not so early brought forth ; for in the month of April I liilled a hive , in which I found maggots and chrysalises , but did not find any males among the latter : t ze maggots are-too young for such investigation ; but about the 20th of May we observed males : they are all very much of the same size .
Tn the morlth of August , ?
robably about the latter end , we may suppo.se they impregnate the qvleen for the next years and about the latter end of the same months and beginning of September they are dying but seem to be hastened to their end by the labourers .
In t79lt as early as the lgth of Julle , I saw the labourers killing the males of a hive , or rather of a swarm , that had not yet swarmed8 , but was hanging out ; this , however , was olt of the common course .
They appear to be selasible of their fate9 for they hurry in and out of the hive as quick as possible seemingly With a view to avoid the labourers ; and we fitld them attaclied by the labourers , who pinch them with their fotceps and when they are so hurt , and tratigued with attempts to lmake their escape , as not to be able to fly , they are thrown over on the ground , and left to die .
That this is the fate of every }alale bee is easily ascertained , by exalnining every bee in the hive when killed for theE honey , which is after this season ; no male being then fotmd in it .
BONNET SUPPOSeS them starved to cleath , as 11e nerrer saw wounds on them .
In the course of a winter I have killed several hives , some as late as April , and in such a way as to preserve every bee , and after examitling every one entirely , I never perceived one maleof any kind ; although it has been asserted there are two sizes of rnales , and that the small are preserved through the winter to impregnate the queen .
Of the Labouring Bee .
This class , for we cantwot call it either sex , or species , is the largestin number of the wholecommullity : there are thou sands of them to one queell , and probably some hundreds to each male , as we shall see by and by It is to be supposed they are the only bees which construct the whole hive , and that the queen has no other business but to lay the eggs : they are the only bees that bring in materials ; the only ones we observe @ busy abroad ; arl(lv indeed , tite idea of any other is ridiculous , when we consider the disprcaportion iz rlumbers , as well as the employment of t &lt; the others , while the working bee has laothing to take off its atterltion to the busilless of the fitnily .
They are smaller than either the queen or the males : not all of equa size , although the diff2eretlce is not very great .
Wthe queen and the working bees are -so much alike , that the latter srould seetn to be females on a different SGa1e : however this di-fference is not so observable in the beginning of withter as in the spring , when the queen is full of eggs .
They are all fenales in construction , havi:ng the fetnale parts , which are extremely small , and would be easily 0X7erlooked by a persola not very well acquaitlted with the parts in the queen : this has been observed by Mr. RIEM ; illdeed , one might suppose that they were ozlly young queens , and-that they became queetls after a certain age ; but this is noXc the case .
They all have stings , which is anotiler thing that makes them silililar to the queel &lt; .
From their being furnished with an instrv ; lluent of defence and offience , they are endowed with such powers of mind as to use it , their minds being extremely irritable ; so much so , that they make an attack when not meddled with , sitnply upon suspicion , and when they do attack , they always sting ; and yet , from the circumstance of their not being able tor disengage the sting , one should stlppose they woulsl be more cautious in striking with it .
When they attack one another5 they seldom use it , only their pincers : yet I saw two bees engaged , and one stung the other in the mouth , or thereabouts and the sting was drawn from the body to which it belonged , and the one who was stung rall very quickly about with it ; but I could not catch that bee , to observehow the sting was situatedOs As they are the collectors of honey , much more than what islfor their own usen either immediately , or in future , their torlgue is proportionably fitted for that purpose : it is considerably longer than that of either the queen or the male , which fits them to take up the honey from the hollow parts of flowers , of considerable depth .
tlnhe mecharlism is very curious , as will be explained further on .
The number of labourers in a hive varies very considerably .
In one hive that I killed there were -33g8 In another 44yg In one that died , there wZere 2432 That I might guess at the number of bees from a gisren bulk , I counted what number atl alehouse pint held , hen wet , and found it COlltained 2160 Therefore , as some swarnas will fill two quarts , such must consist of near gooo C)f the Parts concerned !
in the Nourisbment of the Bee .
Animals who only swallow food for thetnselves , or whose alimentary or ; gans are fitted w } &lt; olely for their own nourishment , have then adapted to that use only ; but iI1 many , these organs are common for more purposes , as in the pigeons and likewise in the bee .
In this last , some of the parts are used as a temporary reservoir } holding both that which is for the immediate nourishment of the anitnal , and also that which is to be preserved for a future day , in the cells formerly described ; this last portion is therefore thrown ul3 again , or regurgitated .
aAS it is the labourers alone ill the common bee that are so employed , we Inight\#163 ; onceive this reservoir would belong only t them ; but both the queen and males , both in the common and humble bee , have it , as --aIson I believe , every one of the bee tribe .
As the bee is a remarkableinstance of regllrgitation it is necessary the structure of the parts concerned in this operation , and which are alsoconnected with digestion , should be well considered .
Ruminating animals may be reckoned:regurgitating animals , but in them it is for the purpose of digestion entirely in themselves .
But many birds may be called reg ; ur gitating animals and in them it is for the purpose of feeding their young .
Crovtts fill their fauces making a kind of craw out of which they throvs back the food when they feed their yollng : but the most reInarkable is the dove tribe , who first fill their crasv , &lt; and then throw it up into the beak of their young$ .
The bee has this power to a remarkable degree } not , howevern for the purpose of feeding the young , but it is the mode of depositing their store when brought home .
In none of the above-mentioned regurgitatinganimals ax the reservoirs containing the food , the immediate organ of diS gestion &gt; nor does the reservoir for the honey in the bee appear ... .
to be its stomach .
The tongue of the bee is the first of the alimentary organs to be considered : it is of a peculiar structure , and is probably the largest tongue of any animal we know , for its size .
It may be said to consist of three parts respecting its length , having three articulations .
One , its articulation with the head , which is in some measure similar to our larynx Then comes thebody of the tongue , which ls composed of two parts ; one , a kind of base , on which the other , ol * Fide Observations on certain parts of the animal oeconolny ?
p4 I9I .
-true tongue , is articulated .
This first part is principally a horny substance , in which there is a groorre , and it is articulatedWitll the first , or larynx ; on the end of this is fixed the true tongue , witha its di ; fferent parts .
These two parts of the tongue are as it were enclosed laterally , by two horny scales , one on each side , which are conGave on that side next : to the torlgue ; oneedge is thicker than the other , and they do not extend so fir as the other parts .
Eacll of these scales is composed of two parts , or scales , respecting its length , one articulated with the other : the first of those scales is articulated with the common base , or laryxas , at the articulation of the first part of the tollgue , and encloses laterally the second part of the tongue , coming as far forwards as the third articulation on the end of this is articulated the second scale , which continues the hollow groove that encloses the tongue laterally ; this termitlates in a point .
These scales have some hairs on their edge .
-On the termination of the second part , is placed the true t-olzg-ue , having t\VQ lateral portions or processes } on each side , one within the other : the external is the largest , and is somewhat similar to the before-mentiolled scales .
This is composed of four partsS or ratherr of one largepart , on which three smaller are-articulated , having lnotlotl on thelnselves .
The first , orl which the others standa is articulated at the edges of thetongue , on the basis , or termination of the last described part of the tollgue- : this hashairs orl its edge .
A little further forwardsorlthe edges of the tongue are twostnall thin processes , so small : as hardly to be seen with the naked eye .
The middle part of all , of which these lateral parts are only apperIdages , is the true tongue .
It is something longer than any of the before-nerltioned lateral portions ; and is not hortly , as the other parts are , but what may be called fleshy , being soft and pliabie .
It is conzposed of short sections , which probably are so many short muscles , as in fish ; for they are capable of moving it in all directions .
rrhe toilgue itself is extreWely villous , having some rrery long villi at the pOiIlt , which act , I conceive ) somewhat like capillary tubes .
This whole apparatus can lbe folded up , into a very small compass , under the head and Ileck .
The larynx falls back into the neck , which brings the extreme end of the first por-tion of the tongue withitl the upper lip , or behinct the tWQ teeth ; then the whole of the second part , which consists of five parts , is bent down upon and under this first part , and the two last scales are also bent down ovSer the whole ; so that the trtle tongue is enclosed laterally by the two second horny sc-ales , and over the whole lie the two first .
Tlle oesophagus , gin all of this tribe of insects , begins just at the root of the tongue , as in other animals , covered anteriorly hy a horny scale , which terminates the head , and which may be called the upper lip , or the roof of the mouth .
It passes dow-n through the neck and thorax , and when got into the abdomen , it immediately dilates into a firle transparent bag , which is the immediate receiver of whatever is swallowed .
From this the food ( whatever it be ) is either carried further on i-nto the stomach , to be digested , or is regurgitated for other purposes .
To ascertairl this in sozne Elegree , in living bees , I caught them going out ear]y in the-morning , and fourel this bag quite empty : some time after I caught others re-turning la-ome , and found the bag-quite full of honey , andS some of it had got into the $tomach .
Now I suppose that which was itz the crasr , was for the purpose of regurgitation ; and as probably they had fasted during the night , part had gone on fur there for digestion .
Whatever time the contents of this reser voir may be retained , :Nve never find them altered , so as to give the idea of digestion having taken place : it is pure honey .
From this bag the contents caIl be moved either way ; either downwards to the stomach , for the ilumediate use vf the anilBal itself ; or back again , to be thrown out as store for future aliment .
Thefstomach arises from the lower end , and a little on the right side , of this bag .
It does-not gradually contract into a stomach , nor is the outlet a passage directly out , but in the centre of a projection which enters some w-ay into the reservoir , being rather an inverted pylc)rus , thickest at its most pro3ecting part , with a very small opening in the centre , of a peculiar construction .
This inward proJecting part is easily seen through the coats of the reservoir , especially if full of honey .
The stomach begins immediately on the outside of the reservoir , and the same part which projects into the reservoir , is continued some way into the stomach , but appears to have no particular construction at this end ; and therefore it is only fitted to prevent regurgitation into the reservoir , as such would spoil the honey .
This construction of parts is well adapted for the purpose ; for the etld projecting into the reservolr , pr@vents any honey from getting into the stomach , because it acts there as a valare ; therefore whatever is taken in , must be by an action of this vascular part The stomach hafs a good deal the appearance of a gut , especially as it seems to come out from a bag .
It passes almost directly downwards in the mlddle of the abdonaen .
* Its inner surface is ; very mllch increased by having either circular valves , somewhat like the flvalvulg conni7 &gt; entes in the human jejanum,0 or spiral fo]ds , as in the intestine of the shark , &amp;c. ; these : may be seen througla the exterr)al coats .
In this part the food undergoes the change .
Where the stomach terminates , is not exactly to be ascertained ; but it soon begins to throw itself into convolutions , and becomes smaller .
The intestine makes two or three twists upon itself , in which part it is enveloped in the ducts , constituting the liver , and probably the pancreas , and at last passes otl straight to the termination of the abdomen .
H:ere it is capable of becoming very large ) to serve upon occasion as a reservoir , containing a large quantity of excrement : it then contraGts a little , and opensunder the posterior edge of the last scale of the back above the sting in the female and labourerst and the penis in the male .
Of the Senses of Bees , Bees certainly have vlle five senses .
Sight none can doubtv Feeling they also have ; and there is every reason for supposing they have likewise taste , smell , and hearing .
l'aste we callnot doubt : but of smell we may not have such proofsyet , from observation , I think thqy give strong signs of smell .
When bees are hungry , as a young swarm in wet wteather , and are in a glass hive , so that they can be examined , if we put some honey into the bottom , it will immediately breed a comlnotsoll ; they all seem to be-upon the scent : earen if they are weak , and hardly able to crawl , they will throw out their probosces as far as possible to get to it , although the light is very faint .
This last appears to arise more from -smell than seeing .
If some bees are let loose ln a lee hive , and do not know frolll which hotase they camen they will take their stand upon the olltside of some hive , or hives ; especially when the eveiling is coming on : whether this-arises from the smell of the hives , or Csot nd , I cari hardly judge .
( )f the Voice of Bees .
B-ees may be:said to have a voice .
They are certainly ca pable of forming several sounds .
They give a sourld when flying , which they can vary according to circumstances .
One accustomed to bees , can immediately tell when a bee makes are attack , by the souncl .
Tilese are probably made by the wings They may be seen standing at the door of their hive , with the belly rather raised , and mov &lt; ng their wings , making a noise .
But they produce a nolse independent of their wings ; for if a bee is smeared all over with honey , so as to make the wings stick together it will be found to make a noise , which is shrill and peevish .
tl'o ascertain this further , I held a bee by the legs , with a pair of pincers ; and observed it thetl made the peevish noise , although the wings were perfectly still : I then cut the wings off , and found it made the salve lloise .
I examined it in water , but it thetl -didR not produce the noise- , till it was very much teasedX and then it macle the same kind o\#163 ; noise ; and I could observe the water , or rather the surface of tontact of the water with the air at the mouth of an air-hole at the root of the wingvibrating .
I have obsersred that theys or some of them , make a noise the evenings before they swarm , which is a kind of ring , or sound of a small trumpet : by comparing it with the notes of the piano forte , it seemed to be the same vzJitll the lower A of the treble .
fXf the Female Parts .
I may here observe , that insects differ from most of the classes of animals above them , in having their eggs formed in the ducts along which they pass ; not in a cluster on the back , as in some fish ( for instance all of theray kind , or what are called the amphibia ) , in the bird , and as is supposed in the quadruped ; ; from thence the eggs are taken up , and by the ducts are carried along tQ their places of destillation Of the Oviducts .
The female of the common bee , similar to all the femalest of the bee tribe , has six oviducts on each side , beginlling by very small , and altnost imperceptible tljreads , as-high as the chest : they then form one cord coiled up , or pass very serpentine , and b@come larger and larger as they approach the anus ; osving to the gradual inereased size of the eggs in them , which are now more distinct , and give the duct a sort of interrupted appearance , toward the 10w7er end .
The six ducts , when full of eggs ?
make a kind of qu ; adrangle ; then all unite intoone duct , which enters the duct common to it and the oviducts of the other side .
The ducts common to the six orriducts oll each siden are extremely tender ; so much so , that it is difficult to save them .
The duct common tothose on both sides may be called the vagina , and it is continuedto the anus , or termination of the belly .
Of the Male Parts .
The male parts of generation , in the colzllnon bee , are much larger than in the humble bee This we suppose necessary , considering the vast nunaber cf eggs the common bee lays , more than the humbleo bee does .
The external parts of generation of the male bee , are rather more under the belly , than in the others of this tribe ; not so much at the termirlation of the belly ; and they are rather more exposed , the two last scalesX especially the under one , not projecting so much : the two holders are not so projecting beyond their base , nor are they sv Sl(30ked , or sharp , as in the humble bee ; hardly deserving : the name of holderse From the external parts , passes up into the abdomen a pretty large sheath , whose termination illcloses the glans penis .
It is a bulbous part , -having a dark coloured hortly part upon it which has two processes near its opening externally , one on each side , of a yellow colour : it has another process , which is hite3 and seelns to be a gland .
It can be made to pass along this sheath , or prepuce , and appear externally : I have been able with a pair of forceps , to inrrert the sheath , be-ginlling externally at the mollth , and pulling out a little at a time , by shifting my hold , tillSthe glans has appeared exX ternally .
The internal parts are the testicles , with their appendages .
The testicles are two small oblong bodies , lyingSnear the back , having a vast number of air-vesseRs passing into them , and ramifying upon them .
They are of a pale yellowish colour .
From their lonter ends : pass down ductsn which 7lay be called vasa deferentin , and which erlter two bags : these two bags , into which the vasa deferentia etltern are proiably reservoirs for the semen .
From the union of these two bags passes out a duct , whichruns towards the termination of the abdomen , and erlds in the perlis .
These three parts , namely testicles with their ducts , the t-Mto bags , and the duct arising from them , which I have termed 1lretllra , are all folded on each other , so as rzo appear as one body .
In the introduction to this account of bees I obserared , that several things in their cono^ny mighe escape us if we considered them alone , but might be made out ill other insects : an instance of this occurs in the impregnation of the female bee .
The death of the males in the tnonth of August , so that llOt one is left , and yet the queen to breed in the month of March , must puzzle any one not acquainted with the mode of impregnation of the fetnales of most insects .
Insects , respecting the males , are-of two kinds : one , where the male lives through the winter , as well as the fetuale ; and the other , where every male of that species dies before the winter comes on ; amon ; which may be considered , as a third , those where both male and fetnale dit the same year .
Of the ISrst , I shall only give the common fly as an instance ; of the second , I shall just mention all of the bee tribe ; and the third may-be illustrated in the silk-worlu The mode c)f irtlpregilation in the first , is its being continued uninterrupredly through the whole period of laying -eggs ; while in the second , the copu lation is in store ; and , in the thircl the female lays up , by mDGcxcIr B h the cop-vllatioz , a store of sernen9 altlloug ; h the male is alive : of this I shall now give an expla-natisn in the silk-moth , which may be applied to the bee , and : marly other irasects .
In dissecting the female parts in the sillk-mothg I discovered a bag lying on wl@at may be called the vagina , or common orriduct , shose tnoutll , or opening , was extertlal , but it had a canal of comnlunication betw-een it and the commoll oviduct .
Irl dissecting these parts before copulation , I found this bag emptyn and when I dissected them after , I found it full .
Suspecting this to contairl the semen of the male , I immediately conceived the following experiment : I opened theX female as soon as the male had united to her , and fotlnd the penis in the opersing of this bag , and by opening the duct where : the penis lay , I obserared the semen lyilag on the etld of the penis .
In another , I observed the bag to fill ill the time of copulation : and in a pair khat dled in the act , I found the penis in this passage .
: When we consider the impregnation of the egg in the silkvorm , we may observe the follon7ing cix cumstances : First , many of the ova are completely formed , and covered^ with a }aurd shell ?
before copulation : secondly , the animals are a vast while in the act of copulation : and thirdly , the bags at ; the anus are filled during theztime of copulation .
From the first observation it appears , that the egg can receive the male influence through the hard or horny part of the shell .
TQ know howt far the whole , or only a part of the eggs , were impregnated by each copulation , rI made the following experiments .
I took a female just emerged out of her cell , and put # All these experiments on the silk-moth tere begun in the summer I767 , and repeated by Mr BELL iIl the year I770* a male to her , and allowed them to be connected their full time .
They were in copulatio-rz ten hours I then put her itzto a box by herself , and when she laid her eggsX I numbered the dlf ferent parcels as she laid them , viz. 1 , , , 4 , s ; these eggs I preserved , and itl the surnmer following I perceived that the No. S was as prolific as the No. X ; so that this one copulation was capable of impregrlating the whole brood : and therefore the xuale influence must go either along the oviduct its -Xvhole length9 and impregnate the incom-plete eggs , as sve11 as the Gompleten which appears to me not likely ; or those not yet formed were inpregnated from the reservoir in the act of laying : for I cotlceived that these bags , by containing seInen had a power of impregnating ; the egg as it passed along to the anus , j:ust as it traversed the mouth of the duct of communicatione Findirsg that eggs completely formed , could be impregnated by the semen , and also finding that the before-mentioned bag was a reservoir for the semen till wanted , I wished next to dis cover if they could be impregnated from the semen of this bag t but as this must be done without the act of coplllation , I col1ceived it proper , first to see whether the ova of isects lllight be impregnated without the natural act of copulation , by applying the male semen over the ova , just as they were laid The following experiments were made -on the silk-moth : EXPERIMENT I. I took a female nzoth , as soon as slle escal ?
ed from her pod , and kept her carefully by herself , upon a clean card , \till she began to lay - ; then I took males that were ready for copulaB b t tion , opened them ?
exposing their seminal ducts , Stld after cutting into these , collected their semen with a hair pellcil : with this semen I covered the ova , as soon as they passed out Of the vagina .
Tlle card with these eggs , having a written tCCOU11t of the experiment upon it , I kept in a box by itself In the enslling season , eight of the ova hatched at tne same time with others naturally impregnated .
Thus , then , I ascertained that the eggs could be impregnated by art , after they were Iaid .
The ova laid by fetnales that had not been lmpregnated , did 1lot stick where they were laid : so that the semen would arppear not only to impregnate the orra but also to be the neans of attaching them .
lto know whether that bag in the female silk-motll , which increased at the time of copulation was iLSlled with the semen of the Inale , I made the following experiment : EXPER IMENT T r. Iitook a female moth , as sovn as she had escaped from the pod , and kept her on a card till she began tv lay I then took fetnales that were fully impregnated before they began to laya and dissected out that bag nthi( &gt; h I supposed to be the receptacle for the male semen ; and sretting a camel hair pellcil with this lllattern covered the ova as soon as they passed out of the vagina .
These ova were laid carefully on the clear card , and kept till the ensuing season- , when they all hatched at the same time with those naturally impregnated .
This proves that this bag is the receptacle for the semen and gradually decreases as the eggs are laid Of the Sting of the Bee .
I have observed that it is only the queen and the labourers that have stings ; and this proVisiOn of a sting is perllaps as curious a circumstance as any attendin$ the bee , and probably is one of the characters of the bee tribe .
The apparatus itself is of a very curious construction , fitted for inflicting a wwound , and at the same time conveying a poison into that wound .
The apparat ; us consistXs of t-wo piercers , -condllcted in a groove , or director , which appears to be itself the sting .
This groove is somehat thick at its base , but terminates in a point ; it is articulated to the last scale of the upper side of the abdomen by thirteen thin scales , six on each side , and one behind the recttlm .
These scales enclose , as it wereX the rectum Qr anus all round ; they can hardly be said to he articulated to each other , only attached by thill membranes , which allow of a variety of tnotions ; three of them , however , are attached nor closely to a roulld and curved process , which comes from the basis of the groove in which the sting lies , as also to the curved arm-s of the sting , which spread out externally .
The two stings may be said to begin by those two curved processes at their union with the scales , and converging towards the groove at its base , which they enter , then pass along it to its point .
They are serrated on their outer edges , hear to the point .
These two stings can be thrust out beyond the grcrove , although not far , and they can be drawn within it ; and , I believe , call be molred singly .
All these parts are moved by tnuscles , which we-may suppose areE very strong in them , much stronger than in other arsimalsX and these muscles give motion n almost all directions , balt more particularly outsvards .
It is wetlderful how deep they will pierce solid bodies urith the st-i .
I have examined the lengtl they have piercedg the palul of the hand , which is covered with a thick cuticle : it laus often been about the Itz of an ilth .
To perform this -by mere force , two thitts are no cessary , power of muscIes , and strength of the sting ; neither of which they seern to possess itl sufficient deg ; ree I own I do not understand this operatlon .
I atn apt to conceive there is sometlling in it distinct from simpte force applied to one end of a body ; for if this was simply the caseX the sting of the bee could not be made to pierce by any power applied to its baseg as the -least pressure bends it in any directicon : it is possible the serrated edges may ass-ist by cllttirag their way *1 *1 sn , 11xe a saw .
The apparatus fcor the poiserl conSists of two small ductss Fthich are the glallds that secrete the poison : these two lie in the abdomen among the aircells ) &amp;c. : they both unite into ones hich soon enters into or abrms an oblong bag9 like a bladder of urille ; at the opposite end of which passes out a duct , which runs towards the angle where the tw-o stings meet ; and entering betwee the two stings , is continued between them in a groove , which forms a canal by the union of the two stlngs to this poirlt .
There is another duct on the right of that described above , which is not so circumscribed , and contaills a thicker matter , uthich as far as I have been able to judge enters alollg with the other punctures that had the fluid from the firstvdescribed bags in them grew sore and inflamed , while the others did not .
From the stings having.serrated edgesn it is seldom the bees can diserlgage them ; azad theyixntnediately upon stinging endeavour to make their escape , but are generally preventeds as it ver e caught itl their OWI1 trap ; and the force they use commonly drags out the whole of the apparatus for stinging , and also part of the bowels ; so that the bee most frequently falls a sacrifice immediately upon having eiected its purpose .
UPQn a superficial view , one conceives , that the first itatention of the bee han7ing a sting is evident ; c)rle sees it has property to defendg and that therefore it is fitted for defience ; but why it should naturally fall a sacrifice in its own defierlce , does not soA readily appear : besides , all bees have stings , although all bees have not property to defend , and therefore are not under the same necessity of being so provided .
Probably its having a sting to use , was sudicient for nature to defend the bee , &amp; titllout u$ing it liberally ; and the loss of a bee or two , whet they clid sting , ras of no consequence ; for it is seldom that !
more elle .
I have now carried the operations of a hisre , or the oeconomy of the bee , compietely round the year ; in which time they relrolve to the first point wezset out at , and- ; the continuan\#163 ; e i5 Only a repetition:of the same revolutions as I have Jnow described .
but those revolutions occasion a series of effects in the comb , which effects in time produce variations ill the life of the hiveX Besides , there are obser^rations that have little to do with the oeconomy of a year , butinclude the whole of the life of this insect , or at least its hive .
Of the Life OJr the Bee .
I have observed that the life of the rnale is only one suln mer , or rather a month or two ; and this we know from there being none in the winter , otherwise their a ; e could not be asceltained , as itis impossible to learll the age of eith-er tlaequeen or labourers .
S(3me suppose that it is the young bees which swarm ; and most probably it is so : but I tohinl it is probable also , that a certain number o:l : yo32Tang ones may be retained to keep up the stock , as we tuust suppose that many of theold ones are , from aJccidents of various kitlds , lost to the hive ; and we could cc &gt; zce+res that a hive three or four years old might nczt have an origirzal bee in ; t , although a bee might live twice that time .
But there lllust he a period for a bee to linre ; and if I were to judge from analogy , I shouldsay , that a bee 's natural life is limited to a certain number of seasons ; vize one bee does not live one year , :another two , atlotller three , &amp; c : .
I evell conceive that no individual insect of any species lives one luonth longer than the others of the same species .
I belierle this is the case with all insects ; but the age of either a laboaArer or a queen may never be discovered .
One might suppose that the life of a bee , and the tinie a hive can possibly last , would be nearly equ-al : altlloughs this is not absolutely necessary , because they can produce a succession , which they probably do ; for I arn very ready to imagine , that after the first brood in the season , all the last winter bees die , and the hive is occupied with this first brood ; and that they breed the first swarm or that the old breed the whole of 3this season 's breeding , and then dies and-those that continue through the winter are the young ; and if so , then they follow the same course with their proge &lt; itors .
The comb of a hisre may be said to be the irnlture and storehouse of the beesa which by use wear out ; and from the description I halre given ) it wi]l appear that the comb in time will be rendered unfit for use .
I observed , that they did not cleatl out the excrement of themaggot , and that the maggot before it moved into the chrysalis state , lIned the w11 with a silk , similar to-many other insects .
It lines t}e whole cell , top , sides , and bottom ; the two last are permanent } and at the bottom it covers with this linlng its own excrement .
$ Why the bee maggot is formed to do this , isfi proltably , because honey afterwards is to be put into this cell ; Sso that the holley is laid into this-last silken bag How often they may breed in the same cell T do not knows but I have known them three times in the same season ; each time the excrement has been accurnulating ?
and the cell has been l ; tled three times with silk*. .
From this account we must see that a ceIls in time , will be so far filled up as to render it utfit for breedingt Orl separatifng tlLle lining of silk , wthich is easiest done at the bottom on account of the dried excrement between each lining , I have counted above twellty ditEerent linings in xe-cell , and\#163 ; bund the cell about one quarters or one ; third filledH up : when such a cell or a piece of comb with such cells is steeped in water , sc ) a$ to soften the excrement between the linings thqy are sepa"\#163 ; This neither the wasp nor horllet do , although they do not clean out the excement of their maggots MDG-C XC I I. C c rated from -each other at the bottom by the swelling of the exerement , l so that theycan be : easily counted .
A piece of comb so circumstanced , whenboiled for the ntax , will keep its form , and the small quantity of was is squeezed out at different parts , as if squeezed out of a sponge , and rlx-n5 together into the crevices : while-a Cpiece of comb , that never has been bred in , everl of the same hive , nzelts-almost uholly-down .
-It is this wax that -tias the fine yellow , while the-other of the same hives , altllollgh br-own , yet shall be white rhen melted ; so that I was ledto imagine thewax took itstillge fl"om the farina , exerement , &amp;c. but upon boiling pure was0wi:th -such materials , it was not tinged with4this transparelat yellov- , only becalme dirty .
In some of those cells that had probably been bred in twenty times , or more , when soaked so a$ to make the excrement swell , I have seen the bottom of the last lining rise even with themouth , or topiof the cell , ; so that the:cavity of the cell Kwas now full : in otl ?
iers , Ishave seen it -rise higher than the mouth , so that the last formed l-ayers were alrnost inverted , and turned inside otlt .
A piece of su-eh comb , consisting of two rows of cells , ls to be considered as amould , and the lining of sil:k and the- ; excre_ meant as the cast ; when this is boiledn so:as either to extract all the wax or mould , or to destroy its original rep , ular formation vfhich constituted the cornb , and nothing-is left but the cells of silk , &amp;c. they all easily separate from each otherbeing-only so many casts , with the mould destroyed ; and the bottotns , which were indIented into each other ) are very perfect .
- ; :0 From the above account we must see thatthe combs of a hifire can only last a certaitl number of years ; how-ever , to make them last longer3 the bees often add a little to the mouth of the cell , which is seldom done with wa:x alones but with a mixture ; and they sometimes cover the silk lining of the last chrysalis ; but all this 1nakes such cells clumsy , in comparison to the original ones .
To CHARLES BLAGDEN , M. D. Sec. R. S. DEAR SIR IN a Paper on the Chronology of the HINDOOS , which the Society did me the honour to pritlt in the LXXXth Volulne of their Transactions , I have said ( p. S66 and 570 ) that the era of Bikrolmajit comlmences in the year 56 before Christ , and that the year 1846 corresponds with our year 1790 ( from April ) : but it appears from an examination of the nutubers of an original Benares allnanack , that I have calculated the elapsed time of that er-a one year short ( by comparison with the era of Salab in , xrllicl1 being employed in astronomical computations is sufficiently ascertained ) , and that the year 184,7 not 184,6 &gt; bsh-ould correspond with 1790 , and the columencement of the era with the year 57 before Christ , both from April .
I tdS very desirous that this trror should be noticed as soon as possible , and request that the correction may have a place in the Volume now printiIlgo I am , dear Sir , &amp; ce WM .
M4RSDEN .

