20 Dr. W. Huggins .
[ Dec. 18 , the pile from the source renders it difficult for heat to pass by convection from the one to the other .
Following the method pursued by Professor Buff , the radiation through hydrogen was compared with the radiation through air .
To make the experiments more strictly comparable , the temperature of the source was in all cases rendered the same .
Instead of having to wait 8 minutes for the needle to reach its maTmnm deflection , it was steady there in less than a quarter of this time .
The result was very different from that obtained by Professor Buff .
Instead of the one gas absorbing from 50 to 60 per cent , of the radiation , and the other none , no difference whatever was to be detected between the deportment of hydrogen and that of air .
Both , as before , proved practical vacua to the rays of heat .
Professor Buff describes other experiments , to one only of which I need refer .
He makes " the diathermancy of olefiant gas somewhat higher than that of air .
" It mast have been a strangely defective apparatus which could yield such a result .
Air differs as widely from olefiant gas as rock-salt differs from ice .
Pursuing Professor Buff 's own method of experiment , * but insulating the glass cylinder from the source of heat , the diathermancy of air was found to be perfect , whereas 11 inches of olefiant gas absorbed 33 per cent , of the total radiation .
Such is my examination of the paper to which my attention was directed two years ago by Dr. Hofmann .
III .
" On the Photographic Spectra of Stars .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 11 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) The author presented , in December , 1876 , a preliminary note on the subject of this paper , together with a diagram of the spectrum of Vega compared with that of the sun .
The author refers to a paper by Dr. William Allen Miller and himself in 1864 , in which they describe an early attempt to photograph the spectra of stars .
Other investigations prevented the author from resuming this line of research until 1875 , when a more perfect driving clock , by Grubb , enabled him to take up this work with greater prospect of success .
The author describes the special apparatus and the methods of working which have been employed .
The spectrum apparatus consists of one prism of Iceland spar and * A defective method even when every care is bestowed upon it .
1879-3 ^ie Photographic Spectra of Stars .
lenses of quartz .
It is so arranged in the telescope that the image of the star can be brought with certainty upon any part of the slit , and can be kept there during the photographic exposures , by a method of continuous supervision and control .
The slit is provided with two shutters , through one-half of which a solar or other spectrum may be taken on the same plate for comparison and the determination of the lines in position in the spectrum .
The photographs were examined and the lines measured by means of a micrometer attached to a microscope of low power .
These measures were reduced to wave-lengths by the help of solar and terrestrial spectra , use being made of M. Cornu 's map of the ultraviolet part of the spectrum , and of M. Mascart 's determination of the wave-lengths of the lines of cadmium .
Photographs have been obtained of the stars Sirius , Vega , * Cygni , \#171 ; Yirginis , 7 Ursa ?
Majoris , a Aquilse , Arcturus , / Pegasi , Betelgeux , Capella , a. Herculis , and a. Pegasi .
Also of the planets Jupiter , Yenus , and Mars , and of the different parts of the moon .
The spectra of Sirius , Yega , a Cygni , a Virginis , rj Ursse Majoris , at Aquilas , and Arcturus are laid down in a map on the scale of M. Cornu 's map of the ultra-violet part of the solar spectrum .
The stellar spectra extend from about G to O in the ultra-violet .
The stars of the white class are arranged so as to exhibit , first , the remarkable spectrum typical of this class , and then some of the modifications it appears to undergo .
The typical spectrum of this region of this class consists of twelve strong lines winged at the edges .
The continuous spectrum extends in the photographs beyond S , but no lines are seen more refrangible than the twelfth line at 3699 .
Two of these lines agree in position with the hydrogen line ( 7 ) 4340 , and the other line at h. The third line agrees with Hi .
The remaining nine form a group , in which the distance between any two adjacent lines is less as the refrangibility increases , suggesting that they are connected with each other , and represent , probably , one substance .
A very suggestive modification presents itself in the difference of character of the line H2 .
In these stars this line is either absent or very thin as compared with its appearance in the solar spectrum .
In the spectrum of Arcturus , which belongs to the solar type , this line exceeds in breadth and intensity its condition in the solar spectrum .
The white stars may , therefore , be arranged in a series in which the line H3 passes through different stages of thickness , at the same time that the typical lines become narrower and more defined , and other finer lines present themselves in increasing numbers .
Arctui'us seems to present a spectrum on the other side of that of the sun in the order of change from the white-star group .
The spectra of the planets were taken on the plan suggested by the 22 Mr-J-N- Loekyer .
[ Dec. 18 , author in 1864 , in which the planet 's spectrum is observed or photo-graphed together with a daylight spectrum .
These photographs show no sensible planetary modification of the violet and ultra-violet parts of the spectrum of the planets Venus , Mars , and Jupiter .
Numerous spectra of small areas of the lunar surface have been taken under different conditions of illumination .
But the results are negative as to any absorptive action of a lunar atmosphere .
IV .
" On a New Method of Spectrum Observation .
" By J. N. .
Lockyer , F.R.S. Communicated at the request*of the Committee on Solar Physics .
Received December 10 , 1879 .
In anticipation of my report on the Methods of Mapping Spectra , which I have been requested to prepare for the Solar Committee , I beg to present to them the following account of some recent work which has been suggested during the preparation of that report .
In the Phil. Trans , for 18/ 3^ I gave an historical account , showing how , when a light source , such as a spark or an electric arc , is made to throw its image on the slit of a spectroscope , the lines had been seen of different lengths , and I also showed , by means of photographs , how very definite these phenomena were .
It was afterwards demonstrated that chemical combination or mechanical mixture gradually reduced the spectrum by subtracting the shortest lines , and leaving only the long ones .
On the hypothesis that the elements were truly elementary , the explanation generally given and accepted was that the short lines were produced by a more complex vibration imparted to the " atom " in the region of greatest electrical excitement , and that these , vibrations were obliterated or prevented from arising by cooling or admixture with dissimilar atoms .
Subsequent work , however , has shownf that of these short lines some are common to two or more spectra .
These lines I have called basic .
Among the short lines , then , we have some which are basic , and some which are not .
The different behaviour of these basic lines seemed , therefore , to suggest that not all of the short lines of spectra were , in reality , true products of high temperature .
That some would be thus produced and would therefore be common to two or more spectra we could understand by appealing to Newton 's rule : " Oausas rerum naturalium non plures admitti debere quam quse et verse sint et earum phsenomenis explicandis sufficiant , " and * " Phil. Trans. , " 1873 , p. 254 .
f " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxviii , p. 159 .

