80 An Investigation of the Influence of Electric Fields on Spectral Lines :Preliminary Note .
By Professor G. F. Hull , Dartmouth College , U.S.A. ( Communicated by Professor J. Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received and read June 28 , 1906 .
) In general the electrical fields used were those concomitant with the luminous electric discharge .
An interferometer of the Michelson form and an echelon spectroscope of 18 plates were used to analyse the radiations .
The results may be summarised as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) End-on discharge tubes of special design , in which the light-source was a uniform column of luminous mercury vapour viewed in the direction of discharge , showed no change of wave-length as great as 1 part in 4,000,000 when the direction of the discharge was reversed .
The pressure in the tube was varied from a few millimetres to a vacuum so high that there was but little luminosity .
( 2 ) The passage of Rontgen rays through the tube did not alter the wavelength nor the width of the mercury lines , to an extent sufficient to affect the visibility of interference fringes formed with a difference of path of 400,000 waves .
When the luminous column was viewed at right angles to the direction of the discharge no polarisation effects in the radiation from it , due to the passage of the Rontgen rays , could be detected by a sensitive Savart plate and Nicol prism .
( 3 ) When the discharge passed in air between electrodes formed of an amalgam of cadmium and mercury , no variation of the wave-lengths of the strong Cd , Hg , lines greater than 0002 tenth-metres was obtained , by changing the line of sight from a direction along the discharge to one at right angles to that direction .
Approximately the same result held good when a small capacity was inserted in the circuit , but in this case the discrepancies in the readings were larger .
This result shows that the luminous particles do not acquire a velocity in the direction of the discharge greater than 150 metres per second .
Hence the curving of the image of the discharge produced by a rotating mirror , as in the Feddersen experiment , and as recently studied by Schuster and Hemsalech for individual spectral lines , appears to be due not so much to motion of luminous particles as to the propagation along those particles of a condition of luminosity .
( 4 ) Doppler effects in the canal rays , as announced by Stark during the course of the present investigations , were found for the strong hydrogen Influence of Electric Fields on Spectral Lines .
81 li .es .
In some cases they appeared also in mercury lines .
The velocities r. resented by the displacements of the lines were of the order of 4x 105 metres per second for the hydrogen particles and 2'5 x 104 metres per second for those of mercury .
But it was found that , in general , the luminous mercury particles in the canal rays did not move , at any rate with a velocity greater than 100 metres per second .
In these cases the canal rays appear to he due to non-luminous particles streaming through the mercury vapour and producing luminescence in the latter , probably by bombardment .
( 5 ) A glass tube was sealed on to a canal-ray tube , at right angles to the direction of the rays .
This tube was covered by a piece of optical glass as free as possible from strain .
A very sensitive combination of Savart plate and Nicol prism was used to detect , if possible , any polarisation that might exist in the light from the rays in hydrogen .
After eliminating reflections from the walls of the tube no polarisation could be recognised .
( 6 ) The light produced by electrical discharge , in uniform tubes 3 or 4 cm .
in diameter , was examined perpendicular to the direction of discharge , at various points between the electrodes and also behind the perforated cathode .
It wTas found that the principal hydrogen lines were greatly broadened in those parts wThere the electric field is known to be of great intensity .
For example , the luminous layer covering the cathode ( the dark space being 0'5 to 4 cm .
) gave hydrogen lines 04 Angstrom units in width , but the lines of the second hydrogen spectrum and certain air lines were not appreciably broadened .
This broadening seems to be due mainly to motion of the particles rather than change of free periods , for it is found to the same extent behind the cathode in the canal rays .
The broadening is so great that it is not possible with the instruments at the writer 's disposal to determine the shift of these lines except to fix a superior limit of OT A.U. to its possible magnitude .
The amount is probably considerably less than this .
On the other hand , the shift of the lines of the second spectrum of hydrogen is so small as to approach the limits of error , viz. , 0-005 A.U. The mercury lines show no shift but a slight broadening .
The experiments thus show that any electrical analogue of the Zeeman effect is , under the above conditions , largely masked by a widening of the lines .
The work was carried out at the Cavendish Laboratory , Cambridge , during the past winter ; and the writer 's thanks are due to Professor J. J. Thomson and to Professor Living for the facilities kindly accorded to him .
vol. lxxviii.\#151 ; a. G

