]\gt ; The Osmotic Pressure of ) Solutions of Degree of By ALFRED W. PORT B.Sc. , Fellow of , and Assistant-Professor of Physics in , Uniyersity College , London .
( Communicated by Professor F. T. outon , F.R.S. Received May 22 , \mdash ; Read June 6 , 1907 .
) This paper is an attempt to make more complete the theory of solutions , at the same time as great simplicity of treatment as is possible without sacrificing precision .
Renewed attention has been called to the subject , owing to the success of the experiments of the Earl of Berkeley and Mr. E. J. Hartley on the osmotic pressure of concentrated solutions of Diversity of opinion has existed in regard to the interpretation of these experiments , insufficient attention having been previously paid to the inflnence of the hydrostatic pressure of the pure solvent upon the value of the osmotic pressure .
The principal advances made in this paper consist iu simply demonstrating the influence of pressure upon osmotic pressure for ) solutions and in including the effect of the variability of vapour pressure with hydrostatic pressure .
The influences of accidental properties ( such as the effects of ooravitation ) are excluded .
Snmmary of iVotation .
The is the notation employed .
All the values are isothermal values .
Solution.\mdash ; Hydrostatic pressure Vapour pressure corresponding to hydrostatic pressure when solution is in contact with its own vapour alone Volume at hydrostatic pressure Reduction of volume when 1 gramme of solvent escapes Osmotic pressure for hydrostatic pressure Solrent.\mdash ; Pressure of solvent when solution is at pressure Corresponding vapour Vapour pressure when hydrostatic pressure is that of its own vapour Mr. A. W. Porter .
The Osmotic Pressure of [ May 22 , Volume at hydrostatic pressure .
Specific volume at hydrostatic pressure , , , Vapour of Specific volume at pressure , , , , . .
A few special symbols are defined in the text .
between Osmotic and Vapour Pressures .
The following isothermal cycle enables the above ] ation to be foumd .
Jarge ( practically infinite ) quantity of a solution ( unacted upon by any bodily field of force , such as gravity ) is separated from a quantity of pure solvent by a semi-permeable membrane .
The solute is supposed to be inyolatile .
The solution is under a hydrostatic pressure , while the solvent is under the hydrostatic pressure for which there will be equilibrium .
It is not intended that either of these pressures shall be restricted to be the vapour pressure of the corresponding liquid .
FIG. 1 .
( 1 ) Transfer 1 ramme of solvent from the solution to the solvent by moving the.semi-permeable membrane to the left ; the work done upon the system is ( 2 ) Separate 1 gramme of the pure solvent ( at ) from the rest by partitioning off the lateral tube ; change its pressure to ( by aid of the lateral piston ) , so that it will be in equilibrium with its own vapour , and then evaporate it ; the work done is ( 3 ) Change the pressure of the vapour to , so that it may be in 1907 .
] Compressible Solutions ofConcentration .
equilibrium with the solution when under the hydrostatic pressure of its vapour alone ; the work done is ( 4 ) Close the semi-permeable membrane by a shutter to which hydrostatic ressure p can be applied ; also enclose the solution by a second shutter , to which a pressure may be applied ; the solution may now be removed .
Change its pressure to } it into contact with the separated vapour of solvent , which is also at a pressure ; condense this vapour into it , thereby increasing the volume of the solution by , and then compress to a pressure .
The work done is .
The connection the ) ermeable membrane must now be restored , and then everything will be in its initial state , and the total work done , since the cycle is isothermal , must be zero .
Adding the several terms , integrating by parts , and simplifying equation , we obtain ; or , remembering that .
( 1 ) This the expression which gives the osmotic pressure for any concentration and temperature in terms of the vapour pressures , etc. , correS } ) onding to the same concentration and temperature .
It includes the influe1lce of compressibility , and states with precision the particular circumstances to which the various physical data correspond .
For example , the vapour pressures and are the vapour pressures of the solvent and solution the h.ydrostatic pressure of its own vapour , and not under the hydrostatic pressures and respectively , as might perhaps have been expected .
In order to compare this equat1on with those hitherto given , we will first assume that and are constants nor compressibility ) , and that the vapour follows the gas laws .
equation then becomes where is the gas constant for solvent vapour .
This may also be written .
( 3 ) The special cases are of interest .
522 Mr. A. W. Porter .
The Osmotic Pressure of [ May22 , 1st .
Let be the osmotic pressure when the solvent is under the hydrostatic pressure of its own vapour ; then .
( 4 ) This is identical with va n't Hoff 's case , except that he writes it in of molecular quantities and pays no attention to the variation of and with hydrostatic pressure .
2nd .
Let be the osmotic pressure when the solution is under the hydrostatic pressure of its own vapour ; then .
( 5 ) This is identical with the Earl of Berkeley 's solution , in which , however , no attention was paid to the influence of pressure .
It is precisely the result naturally given by the method he employs when attention is paid to pressure .
of Hydrostatic Pressure of Solution .
By rentiating formula ( 2 ) with respect to , the concentration ( c ) and , therefore , the value of being maintained constant , we get , or This does not allow for compression .
By differentiating the accurate expression equation ( 1 ) , we get , ( 6 ) which is of the same form as before , but the terms have now more precise meanings .
Similarly , the rate of change of osmotic pressure with change in the hydrostatic pressure of the solvent is ooiven by .
( 7 ) Comparison of Osmotic Pressures of Solutions of different the same Solvent .
If we have several solutions of different substances in the same solvent , and if the pure solvent against which they are tested osmotically is under the pressure of its own vapour , then equation ( 1 ) shows in eneral if the vapour pressures of the solutions have the same values ( when measured for a hydrostatic pressure of the solution equal to their own vapour pressure ) the osmotic pressures will be different , for the equation defining is in this case , ( 8 ) where and varies considerably for different solutions .
1907 .
] Compressible Solutions of any Concentration .
If , however , the solutions , instead of the solvent , be under the hydrostatic pressures of wheir own vapours , and if these pressures be equal , then the solutions will have the same osmotic pressure .
For equation ( 1 ) then becomes , ( 9 ) and both these terms depend only upon the properties of the pure solvent and the pressul.es in question .
It is easy to show , however , that this two-fold isotony ( for vapour and for osmotic pressures ) holds for any hydrostatic pressures of the solutions ( the same for all ) , provided that the vapour pressures be measured for the solutions when same hydrostatic pressure .
This can be shown at once by considering the arrangement represented in fig. 2 .
FIG. 2 .
Two solutions having the same solvent are contained in a vessel and separated one from the other by a semi-permeable membrane .
The space above contains the vapour ether with an inert whose pressure is A. The vessel is supposed to be in a region free from ravitational action .
Then it is obvious that if the osmotic pressures be equal , but the vapour pressures be different , , a circulation must ensue which will upset the initial oslnotic equilibrium in such a direction as to maintain the difference of vapour pressures and thus to cause perpetual flow ; the possibility of this we are entitled to deny .
In order to show how this result is consistenlt with equation ( 1 ) , it is necessary to find the mode in which the vapour pressures vary with hydrostatic pressure .
Variation of Vapour Pressure with drotatic An approximate formula for this variation has been obtained by Professor J. J. Thomson in his " " Applications of Dynamics to Physics and Chemistry\ldquo ; .
A. W. Porter .
The Osrnotic Pressure of [ May 22 , by means of the Hamiltonian method .
We will proceed to find cm exact formula for this variation by means of an isothermal thermodynamic cycle , consisting of several stages:\mdash ; A large volume of solution is taken with a space above containing an inert gas ( say , air ) and vapour enclosed by a piston semi-permeable to the vapour alone , which is enclosed by a non-per1neable piston .
The semi- permeable piston will experience the pressure A due to the inert gas ; the pressure on the non-permeable piston will be the pressure of the vapour alone , which is .
The volume of and vapour is initially ( 1 ) Evaporate 1 gramme of solvent from the solution by withdrawing the outer piston , leaving the inmer one fixed ; work done upon the system in this process is equal to or where is the specific volume of the yapour at the pressure ( 2 ) Increase the total pressure to by moving both pistons such amounts that no further liquid condenses or evaporates .
The work done by the inner piston is and that done by the outer piston is , where is a volume which represents the fact that the vapour which at the first pressure was to the left of the inner piston may have passed through it on the of pressure taking place , since the law of compressibility of the vapour will not in general be the same as for the inert gas A. ( 3 ) Condense 1 gramme of the vapour by moving outer piston from to left , keeping inner piston fixed .
Work done is 1907 .
] Compressible Solutions of any 5 25 ( 4 ) Restore the original state of the system by suitably moving the two pistons ; work done upon the systelu is , must be the same as before .
Since the above represents a complete isoChermal cycle the total work is zero ; that is , after rating by parts , whence .
( 10 ) It is convenient to take as the upper limits of the two rals and This result is for a solution of any concentration ; hence , for the pure solvent we have and .
( 11 ) This last result is identical with the result obtained by Professor J. J. Ihomson as an approximate solution ; * we now see that it is accurate , provided that precise meanings be given to the variables concerned .
It is convenient to take as the upper limits of these integrals and By means of these equations we can now transform equation ( 1 ) .
We have Inserting this in ( 1 ) , .
( 12 ) These integrals depend only upon the properties of the solvent and upon the limits of integration .
If all the limits but one are the same for two solutions under comparison , the remaining limit must also be the same , since the volumes are positive and single-valued functions of the pressures .
That is , equality of values of involves equality of the values of , where is the same for both solutions .
of Dynamics , ' p. 171 .
Hence Dr. Larmor 's proof ( Earl of Berkeley 's paper , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 79 , p. 130 ) that they have also the same freezing-point can be extended to solutions at any hydrostatic pressure .
Mr. A. W. Porter .
The Osmotic Pressure of [ May 22 , roximate form of the above equation is .
When is the value for which the hydrostatic pressure of the solvent is , the left-hand side of this is zero ; consequently , in this case ( from the right-hand side ) .
This is simply a special case of a general relation to be proved next .
Again , inse.rting the value for both and into equation ( 1 ) , or , whence That is , when a solution is in osmotic equilibrium with the pure solvent , the vapour pressure of the solution is equal to the vapour pressure of the pure solvent , each measured for the actual hydrostatic pressure of the fluid to which it refers .
That this is so is almost immediately evident from the following case : FIG. 4 .
The solution and solvent are placed in a vessel and separated by a semipermeable membrane .
The space above is also separated into two parts by a partition semi-pernleable to the vapour of the solvent , but not to an inert gas .
A pressure difference is maintained between the two sides by aid of an inert gas .
Then , unless the vapour pressures and are equal , flow of vapour will occur with such consequent evaporation and condensation on the two fluids respectively as to upset the initial osmotic equilibrium in a direction which will maintain the difference of vapour pressures and thus cause perpetual flow , the possibility of which we are entitled to deny .
This conclusion may be taken as a check upon the equations which we have derived .
We have considered only the case of a non-volatile solute , but it is easy to see that this theorem must be equally true if the solute is volatile ; for the 1907 .
] Compressible Solutions of any Concentration .
upper partition may be taken impermeable to the vapour of the solute ; and the argument is , in such a case , in no way Standard Conditions of JIeasurement .
In whatever experimental ways osmotic pressures may be determined , it is necessary to decide on the standard conditions to which the obtained values shall be reduced for the purposes of tabulation and comparison ; that is , to what hydrostatic pressure shall they refer ?
When osmotic pressures are compared by De Vries ' method , as they still often are ( by means of etable or animal cells ) , the solution is under only a moderate pressure .
On the other hand , when values obtained by the method adopted by the Earl of Berkeley , it is the pnre solv that is under a moderate pressure .
The values of the osmotic pressure will differ in general in the two cases .
Now it seems most natural to reduce always either to the value corresponding to the solvent under its own vapour alone or to that corresponding to the solution under its own vapour alone ; and of these two , the latter seems the better .
It is indeed most natural of all to think of the osmotic pressure as being a property of the solution ( just as its pressure , volume , etc. , are ) , the pure solvent bein only brought into consideration in a secondary way in connection with an experimental mode of determinin , the osmotic pressure .
It may be objected that if this standard be adopted the equilibrium pressure of the pure solvent will , even for moderate strengths of solution , usually be negative ; that is , the solvent would require to be under tensiou .
The difficulty is relieved when it is remembered that a certain amount of tension in liquids is practically , and the osmotic pressure for a strong solution always be conceived as being lmeasured against } less strong solution , and this in turn against a less , and so on , till the pure solvent was reached .
If this standard be adopted , we have , from equation ( 1 ) , an equation which is capable of being graphically represented on the indicator diagram for the pure solvent ( fig. 5 ) .
The equation , in fact , states that the hatched area must be taken equal to the dotted area ; the vertical height of the former then the osmotic pressure .
of The chief results obtained iu this paper are:\mdash ; 1 .
An exact equation is obtained connecting the osmotic pressure and vapour pressure for a solution of any given concentration , of any degree of The Osmotic of Compressible Solutions .
compressibility , and under any hydrostatic pressure .
This equation is applicable , therefore , even in the neighbourhood of the critical point .
2 .
Exact equations are obtained giving the dependence of osmotic pressure and vapour pressure upon hydrostatic pressure .
FIG. 5 .
3 .
It is shown that when a solution at any pressure is in equilibrium through a semi-permeable membrane with the pure solvent , its vapour pressure is equal to the vapour pressure of the solvent , these being measured for the hydrostatic pressures to which the solution o.Jld solvent are respectively subjected .
4 .
It is shown that if two solutions , at any hydrostatic pressure the sam for both , are isotonic as regards vapour pressure , they are also isotonic as regards osmotic pressure and they have the same freezing point .

