154 Dr. J. D. Macdonald on the [ Feb. 5 , February 5 , 1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Anatomy and Habits of the genus Phronima ( Latr .
) .
" By John Denis Macdonald , M.D. , F.R.S. , Staff Surgeon R.N. , Assistant Professor of Naval Hygiene , Netley Medical School .
Received January 15 , 1874 .
Of all groups of Crustacea the Amphipoda would appear to exhibit the widest range , in the modification of their parts or organs , without obliterating the delicate lines of natural affinity running through them as a whole .
This is well exemplified in the interesting paper of Dr. R. Willembes-Suhm , Naturalist to the ' Challenger ' Exploring-Expedition , " On a new Grenus of Amphipod Crustaceans " founded by him , and named Thaumops ( Phil. Trans , vol. clxiii .
p. 629 ) .
This genus , although exhibiting many characters in common with Phronima , presents some striking points of difference traceable in the external jaw-feet , caudal appendages , the position of the generative pore , and certain particulars in its internal anatomy .
Of the several characters given of the presence of only four caudal appendages is perhaps the most exceptional for in the generality of the TTroptera there are six besides the telson , which is obviously the equivalent of the seventh abdominal segment of Macrura .
Thus the six pairs of abdominal appendages , including the tail-fins of the prawn or shrimp , for example , are represented in Phronima and its allies , with the exception of Thaumops .
The manner in which the fourth and fifth pair of swimmerets and the caudal fins of Macrura are modified in the TJroptera is well seen in the accompanying figures ; fig. 2 in Phronima and fig. 3 in a neighbouring group of Hyperians , which also serve to show why , at least in the former genus , only five segments have hitherto been recognized in the abdomen .
During the exploratory voyage of H.M.S. ' Herald , ' in the S.W. Pacific , numerous species which I have always been in the habit of referring to the genus Phronima , were taken in the towing-net ; and I may remark that the assumed parasitic habit of these creatures was never , at least , a prominent fact to me ; they were so often taken either perfectly free , or tenanting a nidamental case , such as that subsequently to be described .
Those who , like Dr. Suhm , are acquainted with deep-sea dredging are usually cautious how they refer the doubtful products to their proper habitat ; whether it be the bottom that has been leac e , or some zone of the watery space above .
Indeed it is quite possi e 1874 .
] Anatomy and Habits of the Genus Phronima .
the narrow area of the tallow-arming of the deep-sea lead to include fortuitously , and carry down Phronima or any other little crustacean naturally living near the surface ; and contact with the bottom would finally press it into the tallow , so as to mislead the observer as to its true habitat .
Conversely , in bringing up the dredge from a given depth , it may finally carry with it any more superficial objects casually lying in the track which it takes .
Pig .
1 of the accompanying drawings from nature represents a species of Phronima captured in lat. 30 ' 16 ' S. , long .
176 ' 27 ' W. , of which I find the following description in my notes taken at the time :\#151 ; Head exceedingly elongated from above downwards , with considerable enlargement of the back part , which contains two masses of transparent , rounded ?
, and tapering columns , whose bases occupy the fulness of the poll , exhibiting a regularly facetted appearance externally on two rounded protuberances .
The apices of these organs , on the other hand , converge and blend with the rays of the compound eye , of which , indeed , they may be said to form part , probably assisting nocturnal vision by the production of luminosity .
The long axis of the head is therefore at right angles with that of the body , its form being full above and gradually tapering dowmwards .
The aperture of the mouth is situated at the smaller extremity , interiorly guarded by its mandibulse , maxillae , and one pair of foot-jaws , appertaining to the cephalic segments .
The latter organs are more distinctly recognizable than the others , on account of their more superficial position .
They are short , apparently united at the base , and curved forwards , terminating in two ovate and acute appendages lying side by side , serrated on the borders and beset with short hairs .
The eyes are small where the facets are lateral , and the apices are invested with black pigment , but large where they swell out the back of the head , the points of the same cones meeting in a red spot , quite distinct from , and internal to the black one .
This condition is also observable in the Hyperians , and is worthy of further study in a physiological point of view .
Two minute two-jointed antennae arise from the head , just above and in front of the eyes .
The posterior or upper surface of the second joint of these antennae is clothed with short stiff hairs .
There are seven pairs of thoracic limbs ; but the first two are separated from the others , to some little extent , by arising on a plane anterior and inferior to them , the first two tergal pieces being somewhat wuder than those of the succeeding segments .
They are , moreover , distinguished from the other limbs by possessing a minute spine-like movable clawr , bounded , on either side , by a short styliform process .
There is also a rudimentary manus developed upon the posterior part of the second segment above this claw , that of the first pair being the stoutest , although the limbs themselves are the smaller of the two .
Both pairs of members now described , while they very distinctly belong to the thorax , act the Dr. J. D. Macdonald on the [ Feb. 5 , part of foot-jaws as in the higher Crustacea .
The five succeeding pairs are more especially restricted to the thorax , the third or middle one being stoutly chelate , normally directed backwards , with the pollex superior , and enjoying a very considerable range of motion .
The first pair is usually thrown forwards over the head , and the last backwards over the abdomen , the first flexure corresponding with the first swimmeret ; the second pair is the longest .
The fourth , fifth , and sixth thoracic segments are each furnished with a pair of elongated and laterally compressed respiratory vesicles , connected with the posterior and inferior part of the epimeral pieces behind the articulation of the corresponding limbs .
These vesicles increase in size from before backwards ; and indeed a very rudimentary one may be seen behind the third pair of limbs .
The last , or seventh , thoracic segment is of unusual length , tapering posteriorly , to correspond with the narrowness of the abdomen , in which also the segments are of .
greater length than those of the thorax .
It has been already stated that in , as in the Macrura , there are seven segments in the posterior division of the body ; functionally , however , three of these may be said to belong to the abdomen and four to the tail .
The three abdominal segments bear each a pair of swimmerets , arising near their posterior border , and consisting of a stout or inflated foot-stalk and two narrow , acuminate , annulated and setaceous terminal pieces .
The three anterior of the four caudal segments bear a narrow fan , consisting of three pairs of slender appendages furnished with two short styliform tips .
The first and third of these caudal members are much longer than the second .
The oral organs ( with the exception of the jaw-feet ) , the large chelae , and the foot-stalks of the swimmerets are tinted with a rich purple pigment .
All the other parts are hyaline and transparent .
EXPLANATION OP THE PLATE .
Pig .
1 .
Lateral view of Phronima ( species- ?
) .
With the exception of the antennse , the limbs and appendages of one side only are represented , magnified about 9 times .
Pig 2 The abdomen and tail of the same , further enlarged , to show the several segments , numbered ( from before backwards ) 1 , 2 , and 3 , with swimmerets , and 4 , 5 , and 6 bearing caudal appendages , while 7 is the terminal segment or ( ( j^lgou.^ Fig. 3 .
The abdomen and tail of a Hyperian for comparison , all the numbers having the same signification * .
The evidence of Dr. Willemdes-Suhm supports my own experience , that there is no metamorphosis in this group ; and as it is very probable that the history of the development of would resemble that or Phronima , the following observations may be of some importance , as * 1 ' , 2 ' , 3 ' , 4 ' , 5 ' , and 6 ' being the appendages of the corresponding segments .
Jyfax'xiov.ald Proc.foy .
Soc. Vol. XXir .
PlI .
J , D. MacdomB .
clel\gt ; W.West 1874 .
] Anatomy and Habits of the Genus Phronima .
157 carrying the process a little further than it has perhaps yet been traced by him :\#151 ; In lat. 21 ' 0 ' S. and long .
17 ' 45 ' W. off the island of Ono , Fiji Group , apparently the same species of Phronima as that above described was taken in the towing-net , but with the addition of a numerous progeny of young in a large gelatinous but tough nidamental case .
This interesting nest was shaped like a barrel , but with both ends open , and the external surface was somewhat tuberculated and uneven .
The wall of the tube presented numerous round and puckered openings , observing no very definite arrangement , but through which entering currents were observed to pass .
These openings generally , though not invariably , pierced the tuberculations .
An external membrane , with an internal lining , were distinctly visible , both seeming to be continuous at the rims of the tube .
The space between these layers was filled up with a pulpy substance , in which scattered nucleiform bodies were detected with a higher power of the microscope .
I have been particular in the description of the case , as some farfetched guesses were made as to its real nature .
The cutting , piercing , and tearing implements of Phronima would very soon alter and reduce a bell-shaped Medusa , aSalpian , or a Pyrosoma tube to the required pattern ; for there is usually a great uniformity in the character and appearauce of this case .
" With regard to Phronima , " says Mr. Spence Bate* , " our knowledge is small : its habit is that of an inhabitant of the gill-cavities of some one or more species of Medusa ; but in the Collection of the British Museum , entrusted to my care for examination , is a very curious case that was sent home from Naples by S. P. Pratt , Esq. , as being the one in which the animal was taken .
The structure is thick , fleshy , semitransparent , and studded over the surface and round the orifices\#151 ; one of which is smaller than the other\#151 ; with numerous white excrescences .
Examination with the microscope shows the substance to be pervaded by bundles of fibres ; each fasciculus is twisted together near its centre ; these , some of them being larger than others , star the structure thickly , and still more plentifully where the white excrescences appear .
" However problematical the nature of the case , that its use is for nidi-fication there can be no further doubt .
Though I have already given figures of the specimen above noticed to my friend Major Holland , B.M.E.I. , for a paper on Phronima , published in ' Science Gossip ' ( April 1869 ) , I trust that allusion to it here may not be out of place .
In a subsequent commission on the North-American and West-Indian Station in H.M.S. ' Icarus , ' I have frequently captured " Phronima in its bag , " as my messmates would say .
In order to bring the swimmerets into full play , the animal protrudes its body tail foremost from the case , * Annals and Magazine of Natural History ( Third Series ) , Maroh 1858 .
158 Mr. H. E. E-oscoe on a Method of measuring the [ Feb. 5 only calling into use the fine tips of the third and fourth pairs of thoracic limbs to hold fast its charge .
When it fully retires into the case , the claws of the two posterior pairs of legs are pressed backwards against the lining membrane , so as still more effectually to secure its hold on the approach of danger .
II .
" On a Self-recording Method of Measuring the Intensity of the Chemical Action of Total Daylight .
" By H. E. Roscoe , F.R.S. Received November 27 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the present communication is to describe an instrument by which the varying intensity of the chemically active rays , as affecting chloride of silver paper of constant sensitiveness , can be made self-recording .
The method described by the author in the Bakerian Lecture for 1865 , although it has been the means of bringing into notice many important facts concerning the distribution of the sun 's chemical activity throughout the atmosphere , as well as in different situations on the earth 's surface , has not as yet been introduced as a portion of the regular work of meteorological observatories , owing to the fact that , in order to obtain a satisfactory curve of daily chemical intensity , at least hourly observations need to be made , and this involves the expenditure of more time and labour than it has been found possible to give .
In the present communication a method is described , which , whilst preserving untouched the principles and accuracy of the former method , reduces the personal attention needed for carrying out the measurements to a minimum , and thus renders its adoption in observatories possible .
According to this plan , a constant sensitive paper is exposed by a selfacting arrangement for accurately known times , at given intervals throughout the day .
The insolation apparatus stocked with sensitive paper is placed in position either early in the morning of the day during which the measurements have to be made , or on the previous night , and by means of an electric communication with a properly arranged clock , the sensitive paper is exposed every hour during the day , so that , in the evening , the observer has only to read off , in the ordinary manner , t e hourly intensities which have been recorded on the paper during the day .
This self-recording arrangement , though apparently simple , inrolves points which have rendered its successful completion a somewhat diihcui matter , owing , in the first place , to the great variations which occur m the chemical intensity of total daylight in different places , at difiemnt times of the day , and in different periods of the year ; mid swonffly , owing to the fact that , in order to be able to estnnatethe^emi^ intensity , the coloration acquired by the.paper must reach , but not mucn

