The Croonian Lecture .
On the Existence of Nerves in the Placenta .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. F.P.R.S. Read November 18 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 66 .
] In this lecture the author makes known his discovery of the existence of nerves , both in the foetal and maternal portions of the placenta .
His previous researches had led him to doubt the existence of blood-vessels without nerves , and the extreme vascularity of the placenta led him to suspect them in that organ .
With the assistance of Mr. Bauer , therefore , he first examined the placenta of the Seal , the arteries and veins of which had been injected , and in which nerves were discovered , not only surrounding the umbilical arteries , but also in the uterine portion .
In the pregnant uterus of the Tapir of Sumatra , in which , there being no placenta , the umbilical chord is connected with the chorion , the nerves were very conspicuous in the transparent portion of the chorion , along which the branches of the funis pass before they arrive at the spongy part .
Having thus established the existence of nerves in the placenta , and where that is wanting in the flocculent chorion , Sir Everard proceeds to offer some general remarks upon their probable uses and influences .
From the various sources , the number , and the ganglia of the uterine nerves , and from the circumstance of their becoming enlarged during pregnancy , he infers their powerful influence on the foetus in utero ; and for the further illustration of this subject , the author adds a description of the nerves connected with the generative organs in the human species , the quadruped , the bird , and the frog .
He concludes this lecture with remarking , that since the discovery of the placental nerves proves the existence of a communication through their medium , between the brain of the child and that of the mother , some light may be thrown on the degree of dependence in which the fetus is kept during the whole time of utero-gestation , and upon the influence of the bodily and mental affections of the mother upoi the child ; in further illustration of which , several instances are detailed in proof of the descent of various peculiarities of the mother to the offspring .

