On the Mastic Equilibrium of Circular Cylinders .
353 Higher mammals depend principally upon variations in heat-loss , in which rapid respiration plays an important part .
5 .
Variation in production of heat is the ancestral method of homo-thermic adjustment .
During the evolution of the warm-blooded animal it has , through developing a mechanism by means of which it can vary production in accordance with heat lost , overcome one disadvantage of cold-blooded animals , viz. , that activity is dependent on external temperature .
It has thereby increased its range in the direction of low temperatures .
Later , by developing a mechanism controlling loss of heat , it has increased its range in the direction of high temperatures , and also rendered body temperature largely independent of activity ; these advantages have been gained by a treater expenditure of energy .
" On the Elastic Equilibrium of Circular Cylinders under certain Practical Systems of Load .
" By L. N. G- .
Eilon , M.A. , B.Sc. , Research Student of King 's College , Cambridge ; Eellow of University College , London ; 1851 Exhibition Science Research Scholar .
Communicated by Professor Ewing , F.RS Received May 20 , \#151 ; Read June 6 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) The paper investigates solutions of the equations of elasticity in cases of circular symmetry , and it applies them to discuss the elastic eqmhbnum of the circular cylinder under systems of surface loading which do not lead to the simple distributions of stress usually assumed in practice .
The analytical method employed has been to solve the equations of elasticity in cylindrical co-ordinates , obtaining solutions in the typical form sin { kzjx ( function of r ) , r being the distance from the axis and 2 the distance measured along the axis .
, M'l\amp ; general solutions , not necessarily symmetrical about the axis have been given by Professor L. Pochhammer* and by Mr. C. Chree t Professor Pochhammer has used his results to deduce approximate solutions for the bending of beams .
Neither Mr. Chree no^Professor ochhammer has , so far as I am aware , worked out his solutions in detail for such problems as are discussed in the present paper 1 found that solutions in trigonometrical series would be sufficients satisfy most conditions in the first of the three cases discussed , and all # 1 Crelle 's Journal/ vol. 81 .
t 1 Cambridge Phil. Soc. Trans. vol. 14 .
354 Mr. L. 1ST .
G- .
Filon .
On th Elastic Equilibrium of conditions in the third .
The second case required the introduction of other typical solutions , and the analysis was more intricate .
The three problems investigated are as follows:\#151 ; In the first I consider a cylinder under pull , the pull not being applied by a uniform distribution of tension across the plane ends , hut by a given distribution of axial shear over two zones or rings , towards the ends of the cylinder .
The second is that of a short cylinder compressed longitudinally between two rough rigid planes , in such a manner that the ends are not allowed to expand .
The third case is that of the torsion of a bar in which the stress is applied , not by cross-radial shears over the flat ends , as the ordinary theory of torsion assumes , hut by transverse shears over two zones or rings of the curved surface .
The first problem corresponds to conditions which frequently occur in tensile tests , namely , when the piece is gripped by means of projecting collars , the pull being in this case transmitted from the collar to the body of the cylinder by a system of axial shears .
Analytical solutions are found when this system of axial shears is arbitrarily given , there being given also an arbitrary system of'radial pressures .
Approximate expressions are deduced when the length of the cylinder is large compared with its diameter .
These show that the strains and stresses may be calculated on the assumption chat we have , over any cross-section , a uniform tension across the section , a constant radial pressure and an axial shear proportional to the distance from the axis , the last two occurring only over the lengths of the cylinder where such stresses are applied .
The effects of local pressure and shear are thus , for a long cylinder , restricted to a small region and , in the free parts of the bar , we have , to this approximation , the state of things assumed by the ordinary theory .
In order , however , to study the effect of such a system of surface stresses , when no approximations are involved , I have worked out numerically a case where there is no radial pressure applied externally , and a uniform axial shear is applied between two zones .
The solution gives zero tension across the plane ends ; it is not , however , found possible to fulfil completely the condition of no stress , and we have over these limiting planes a self-equilibrating system of radial shears , which , however , will produce little effect at a distance from the ends .
The length of the cylinder is taken to be 7t/ 2 times the diameter , this ratio being found to simplify the arithmetic .
The two rings of shear extend each over one-sixth of the length and are at equal distances from the mid-section and the two ends .
In this and the other numerical examples , Poisson 's ratio has been taken as one-fourth .
This is not correct for most materials , but as the object was to find out the differences between the results of the simple Circular Cylinders under certain Practical Systems of Load .
355 and the modified theories , rather than to calculate the absolute stresses and displacements for any given material , the exact value of Poisson 's ratio adopted was comparatively unimportant .
It IS then found that the stress is greatest at the points where the shear s discontinuous , ,.e at the ends of the collar in a practical case .
At these points it is theoretically infinite .
This result is true whatever the dimensions of the cylinder .
For materials like cast iron or hard \lt ; Ia , lr butTn h ' SUCh POi ?
" '0Uld theref 're be those of latest \#166 ; 8 ' 11 such a case as that of wrought iron or mild steel for instance , the stress will be relieved by plastic flow .
disIrtbnTf^he lS\#171 ; Variei C0 , lside ; i'bly over the cross-section , and the retortion of the latter is large .
Towards the middle of the bar the .^displacement SUrfaC6 rou\#171 ; hly- twice what it is at the relative rhsol exPeraaleI^\#174 ; the elongation is usually measured by the relative displacement of two points on the outer skin of the cylinder wav the 7 an extensometer- When the test-piece is seized in this way the surface stretches more than the interior , and consequently a STTthe ' S\'U !
d be applied t0 the ladings of the extenso-amount ^ " :frH " v \#171 ; ;t ' cUf " la lAT7::y'k T'blesean tensI0n.Qi which would give the same total pull .
Tables are given in the paper showing the values of the radial and " , SoTof \#166 ; t f !
nd 7'and , of the f0l , r \#163 ; ?
\#163 ; U { the notation of Todhunter and Pearson 's \lt ; History of Elasticity/ pointTfn the ctlind r ' ' * ' aCross a face Perpendicular to for , .
cylinder at distances from the axis = 0 .9n .An . .
being the radius of the cylinder ; and for intervals of Tengtt pa^llej to the axis equal to tenths of the half Wo-th qw 8 , f illustrated by curves and diagrams .
8 taUes are thJ'c^hing'o/ 'blocks1 of " ce con^dera^e importance , as it illustrates between in nlats or 1 etw n " ^ ^ are compressed are constrained not to expand"1 * ^ '\#163 ; Uull'boai'd's0 that their \#153 ; ds tei^S::^-0 ' ' 'a n'ade up ' I , are |iy of a finite number of series involving sines ami 77 ratlonal m.r and a , and partly of infinite these two tywfs of tmm TT C0 , 'taIm"g * .
suitably combining The IIS l " , th ' conditions can be satisfied .
\#174 ; mencal example taken was one in which the length is nearly 356 Mr. L. N. Gr .
Filon .
On th Elastic Equilibrium of equal to the diameter\#151 ; the exact ratio , ir/ 3 , being chosen so as to simplify the arithmetic as far as possible .
As in the preceding example , tables of the stresses are given for a large number of points in the cylinder .
From these the principal stresses and the principal stretch were calculated ; and again from these , by interpolation , curves were drawn showing the loci of points in the cylinder where the greatest stress , the greatest stretch , or the greatest stress-difference had the same value .
The curves show that , whatever theory of yielding is adopted , namely , the greatest-stress theory of Navier and Lame , or the greatest strain-theory of St. Yenant , or the greatest stress difference ( or greatest shear ) theory which has more recently been put forward , failure of elasticity will begin to take place round the perimeter of the plane ends .
Thus , in the case of the stress , consider the regions where the stress is greater than a certain value S. When S is nearly equal to the greatest stress these regions are thin annuli round the ends .
As S diminishes the regions become made up , partly of such annuli ( of increasing thickness ) , partly of a closed region round the centre of the cylinder .
When S reaches a certain critical value , S0 , these two regions join on to one another .
The regions where the stress is less than So consist of caps at the two ends and of cylindrical shells , forming the " skin of the cylinder .
The regions of least stress consist oidy of caps or buttons of material at the two ends .
The variations of the principal stretch and of the principal stress-difference can be described in the same general teims .
For materials like stone and cement , which have no very definite yield point , the elastic distribution will give at least an indication of the state of stress almost up to the point of rupture , and if it be assumed that the latter takes place over the regions of greatest stiess , or greatest strain , or greatest shear , according to the particular theoiy we adopt , the results above show that the fracture will start from the perimeter of the ends , and that caps or buttons , which may have an approximately conical shape , will probably be cut off at the ends .
The fact that yielding first occurs at the perimeter , when the stress exceeds 1/ 1-686 of the limiting stress for uniform pressure , leads to the conclusion that the strength of a cylinder under this system of stress is considerably less than the strength of a cylinder uniformly compressed .
This result apparently contradicts the fact that the strength of stone and cement , when tested between lead plates , which allow of expansion , is very much less than when tested between millboard which does not allow of expansion , a fact which has led Professor Perry to state that the true strength of such materials is about half their published strength .
( ' Applied Mechanics , p. 345 .
) The contradiction , however , seems to be explained by a remark of Circular Cylinders under certain Practical Systems of Load .
357 Unwin 's ( 'Testing of Materials of Construction ' " oq\ , .
corroborated by Professor E wing , to the effect that ' Ip ^ " z rtdepends upon the amount of flow of the lead and has although it really introduces too large a ^TJeT Th T^ ' r ; form of the f\#151 ; \#151 ; * *\#163 ; Z\#163 ; itz pofswslz Yozir\#187 ; d vnd of " the \#171 ; *\#171 ; \#166 ; * between its true value wb pn *-b v ^ .
' U US ls s^own to vary the ratio of stZto^Tontln " !
" * ^ \#153 ; , Ue \lt ; * vented by a suitable pressure , this last correspondin ' !
^f"810 " 18 Pre ' the.cylinder is made very short .
ponding to the case when vahfe Itum\#153 ; SiftlS ^apparently 0-269 , the actual cylinder becomes SnlLtly In " " d'\#153 ; * ' 2eTO 88 th8 Jt^nd^VaToZt Vf'T '7 7** " Wh'8e \#171 ; * transmitted to the inner core by means of Znfvel * a 8i"^ of of the cylinder is large compared with"'"S1\#153 ; 1 " " hen the length that , to the first approximation the " " lameter- These show radii originally st^HZll so Tb't'M re"ain any point of ft , is fonnecZ " fh he the \#187 ; .*- .
at section by the same relation as in ^ riStes t : tlZXTlsq7ed0f the distance fr0 " \#163 ; stress .
8 8 'f the cyhnder subjected to external " ih'8e i8 ends , each equal to one-fourth of ft " wh fe ieZf '77 ff 'h ' transverse shear .
Using the pie \#187 ; ot o. P ngth , to a uniform transverse displacement are cTuhtST'nS d ' the StreWeS " 'ld are compared with the vafuesTalcukted 7 Tn'0"8 P'"t8 ' " d these sions when the cylinder is long .
the aPProxlmate expres- 358 Mr. B. D. Steel .
The Measurement of Ionic Velocities It is found that the agreement is , on the whole , tolerably good , whence it is inferred that in torsion , the effect of local action dies out more rapidly than in tension or compression^ The only case of obvious divergence is with regard to the shear rcf\gt ; .
This shear persists inside , even at sections where no stress of this kind is applied to the outside of the cylinder , but it continually diminishes as we recede from the ends . .
, In the exact solution , the cross-sections do not remain undistorted , the transverse displacement increasing more rapidly than the radius .
The distortion is small at sections where there is no external applied stress , but is very obvious near the ends .
... Further , when the applied transverse shear varies diseontmuously , as in this case , the other stress becomes infinite at the points of discontinuity .
This suggests why it is that abrupt changes in the section of such a cylinder are dangerous .
The projecting parts acting upon the inner core will introduce a sudden change in the transverse shear .
It has been noticed that propeller shafts usually break at such points .
" The Measurement of Ionic Velocities in Aqueous Solution , and the Existence of Complex Ions .
" By B. D. Steel , B.Sc. , 1851 Exhibition Scholar ( Melbourne ) .
Communicated by Professor Bamsay , F.R.S. Received May 10 , \#151 ; Read June 6 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) The method of measuring ionic volocities described by Masson has been extended in such a manner that , by the present method , the use of gelatin solution and of coloured indicators is not necessary .
An aqueous solution of the salt to be measured is enclosed between two partitions of gelatin which contain the indicator ions in solution , the apparatus being always so arranged that the heavier solution lies underneath the lighter .
On the passage of the current the ions of t m measured solution move away from the jelly , followed at either en by the indicator ions j the boundary is quite visible m consequence o the difference in refractive index of the two solutions .
The velocity of movement of the margins is measured by means of a cathetometer , and the ratio of the margin velocities gives at once the ratio of the ionic velocities . .
f It is found that , for the production and maintenance of a g refractive margin , a certain definite range of potential fall is icq " givenVir of solutions , and this range differs very much or different boundaries-for example , the margin potassium acetate

