1 .
The reading of a paper , entitled " On the Nerves , " by James Stark , M.D. , was resumed and concluded .
The author gives the results of his examinations , both microscopical and chemical , of the structure and composition of the nerves ; and concludes that they consist , in their whole extent , of a congeries of membranous tubes , cylindrical in their form , placed parallel to one another , and united into fasciculi of various sizes ; but that neither these fasciculi nor the individual tubes are enveloped by any filamentous tissue ; that these tubular membranes are composed of extremely minute filaments , placed in a strictly longitudinal direc ?
tion , in exact parallelism with each other , and consisting of granules of the same kind as those which form the basis of all the solid structures of the body ; and that the matter which hlls the tubes is of an oily nature , differing in no essential respect from butter , or soft fat ; and remaining of a fluid consistence during the life of the animal , or while it retains its natural temperature , but becoming granular or solid when the animal dies , or its temperature is much reduced .
As oily substances are well known to be non-conductors of electricity , and as the nerves have been shown by the experiments of Bischoff to be among the worst possible conductors of this agent , the author contends that the nervous agency can be neither electricity , nor galvanism , nor any property related to those powers ; and conceives that the phenomena are best explained on the hypo ?
thesis of undulations or vibrations propagated along the course of the tubes which compose the nerves , by the medium of the oily globules they contain .
He traces the operation of the various causes which produce sensation , in giving rise to these undulations ; and extends the same explanation to the phenomena of voluntary motion , as consisting in undulations , commencing in the brain , as determined by the will , and propagated to the muscles .
He corroborates his views by ascribing the effects of cold in diminishing or destroying both sensibility and the power of voluntary motion , particularly as exemplified in the hybernation of animals , to its mecha ?
nical operation of diminishing the fluidity , or producing solidity , in the oily medium by which these powers are exercised .

