3.Description of the Electro-magnetic Clock .
By C. Wheatstone , Esq. , F.R.S. The object of the apparatus forming the subject of this commu ?
nication , is stated by the author to be that of enabling a single clock to indicate exactly the same time in as many different places , distant from each other , as may be required .
Thus , in an astronomical observatory , every room may be furnished with an instrument , sim ?
ple in its construction , and therefore little liable to derangement , and of trifling cost , which shall indicate the time , and beat dead seconds audibly , with the same precision as the standard astronomical clock with which it is connected ; thus obviating the necessity of having several clocks , and diminishing the trouble of winding up and regulating them separately .
In like manner , in public oflices and large establishments , one good clock will serve the purpose of indicating the precise time in every part of the building where it may be required , and an accuracy ensured which it would be difficult to obtain by independent clocks , even putting the difference of cost out of consideration .
Other cases in which the invention might be advantageously employed were also mentioned .
In the electro-magnetic clock , which was exhibited in action in the Apartments of the Society , all the parts employed in a clock for maintaining and regulating the power are entirely dispensed with .
It consists simply of a face with its second , minute and hour hands , and of a train of wheels which communicate motion from the arbor of the second 's hand to that of the hour hand , in the same manner asin an ordinary clock train ; a small electro-magnet is caused to act upon a peculiarly constructed wheel ( scarcely capable of being described without a figure ) placed on the second 's arbor , in such manner that whenever the temporary magnetism is either produced or destroyed , the wheel , and consequently the second 's hand , advaiices a sixtieth part of its revolution .
It is obvious , then , that if an electric current can be alternately established and arrested , each resumption and cessntion b lasting for a second , the instrument now described , although unprovided with any internal maintaining or regulating power , would per ?
form all the usual functions of a perfect clock .
The manner in which this apparatus is applied to the clocks , so that the movements of the hands of both may be perfectly simultaneous , is the following .
On the axis which carries the scape-wheel of the primary clock a small disc of brass is fixed , which is first divided on its circumference into sixty equal parts ; each alternate division is then cut out and filled with a piece of wood , so that the circumference consists of thirty regular alternations of wood and metal .
An extremely light brass spring , which is screwed to a block of ivory or hard wood , and which has no connexion with the metallic parts of the clock , rests by its free end on the circumference of the disc .
A copper wire is fastened to the fixed end of the spring , and proceeds to one end of the wire of the electro-magnet ; while another wire attached to the clock-frame is continued until it joins the other end of that of the same electromagnet .
A constant voltaic battery , consisting of a few elements of very small dimensions , is interposed in any part of the circuit .
By this arrangement the circuit is periodically made and broken , in consequence of the spring resting for one second on a metal division , and the next second on a wooden division .
The circuit may be ex ?
tended to any length ; and any number of electro-magnetic instruments may be thus brought into sympathetic action with the standard clock .
It is only necessary to observe , that the force of the battery and the proportion between the resistances of the electro-magnetic coils and those of the other parts of the circuit , must , in order to produce the maximum effect with the least expenditure of power , be varied to suit each particular case .
In the concluding part of the paper the author points out several other and very different methods of effecting the same purpose ; and in particular one in which Faraday 's magneto-electric currents are employed , instead of the current produced by a voltaic battery : he also describes a modification of the sympathetic instrument , calcu ?
lated to enable it to act at great distances with a weaker electric current than if it were constructed on the plan first described .

