23 1884 .
] Balanoglossus Kowalevskii { Agassiz ) , fyc .
horizon , relative to those of the British Basalts , and their floras do bear a resemblance to some of those said to be Miocene of Central Europe ; but as for the Greenland plants brought home by Whymper and by Colo mb , they have no Miocene characters whatever , and there should be no hesitation in referring them to the same ages as the Basaltic floras of our own country .
II .
" Note on the Later Stages in the Development of glossus Kowalevskii ( Agassiz ) , and on the Affinities of the Enteropneusta .
" By William Bateson , B.A. , Scholar of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor Michael Foster , Sec. R.S. Received December 4 , 1884 .
In the " Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , " vol. xxiv , n.s. , p. 208 , I described the embryonic stages in the development of a small species of Balanoglossus which is found on the American coast .
By a direct embryonic development , this animal reaches the condition in which one pair of gill-slits is present , no " Tomaria " stage being passed through .
I have since had an opportunity of observing the further development of this form until it becomes a mature animal possessing from thirteen to forty pairs of gill-slits .
The remarks which follow contain a preliminary account of the steps by which this condition is reached .
At the time of hatching , the body of the animal consists of four regions : ( 1 ) a conical proboscis bearing at its apex a tuft of long cilia ; ( 2 ) a very short collar-region ; followed by ( 3 ) a dilatation of the body , in the dorso-lateral regions of which a pair of gill-openings soon appear .
Immediately behind these gill-slits is a transverse ring of cilia , which separates the third region from ( 4 ) the anal region .
The opening of the mouth is still ventrally directed , and the anus opens at the dorsal side of the posterior surface in the middle line .
The following are the external changes which then occur:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The transverse ring of cilia disappears , being absent in larvae possessing two pairs of gill-slits .
The apical tuft of cilia also disappears .
The cilia which cover the whole body increase in size , and unicellular glands appear in the skin , especially of the proboscis , giving it a speckled appearance .
The tissues become gradually more transparent , presumably from the consumption of the yolk particles with which the cells had previously been filled .
( 2* ) As the cilia disappear , a remarkable temporary organ anoears in the form of a conical process , or tail , arising from the posterior Mr. W. Bateson .
On the Development of [ Dec. 18 , ventral surface , immediately below the anus .
The skin of this organ is wrinkled by five to seven wrinkles , and is full of large glands , probably secreting mucus .
It serves as a strong sucker , by which the animal can be kept in position .
Its presence is possibly correlated to the fact that at this period of larval life the animals creep up to the surface of the sand , protruding the conical proboscis at the bottom of the shallow pools in which they live .
As the heat of the sun beating upon the sand-flats at low tide is very great , it is probably important that the larvae should not be washed out of the pools by the tide , and so dried up , which is prevented by the presence of this sucker .
The whole organ atrophies soon after seven gill-slits are acquired , at which stage the body is long enough to be coiled round foreign bodies .
( 3 .
) As the animal increases in size , the animal becomes more and more flexed upon its ventral surface .
This condition is never lost throughout life , the body of the adult being twisted in a right-handed corkscrew spiral , which cannot be completely straightened without stretching the tissues .
( 4 .
) The constriction at the base of the proboscis increases until the stalk in a specimen possessing four gill-slits is not more than -gJj-o inch in thickness .
( 5 .
) In the third region of the body a constriction appears immediately in front of the gill-slits .
This constriction is especially developed on the dorso-lateral aspects .
It is posteriorly directed , passing from above downwards .
The skin of the region thus marked out between the gill-slits and the original collar region becomes thicker , and never acquires the transparency of the rest of the body .
At the period at which three gill-slits are present it grows backwards , gradually forming an opercular fold over half the first gill-slit ; sub- , sequently in the adult it covers the three anterior pairs of gill-slits .
These gills thus open into a small atrial cavity .
The skin of the collar becomes filled with mucous glands , and acquires a bright orange colour .
The collar is thus made up of two portions of different origin , and , as will be shown , its cavity is lined by meso-blast derived from both the second and also from the third pair of mesoblastic sacs .
( 6 .
) Asa result of the deepening of the constriction between the proboscis and collar , and by a forward growth of the lower limb of the latter , the mouth is anteriorly directed when three pairs of gill-slits are present .
( 7 .
) In larvae with 2\#151 ; 3 pairs of gill-slits , the first appearance^ of the division of the alimentary canal into three regions may be observed .
This division is apparent as soon as the skin becomes transparent , and is very conspicuous owing to the presence of a bright yellow-brown secretion , probably of hepatic character , in the middle or stomach 2S 1884.1 Bal'anoglossus Kowalevskii ( Agassiz ) , fyc .
region , which may thus be distinguished from the pharyngeal region in front and the intestinal tract behind .
In the walls of the former the gill-slits are placed .
They increase in number from before backwards , throughout larval and adult life .
Their openings are at first circular , but afterwards become horse-shoe shaped , owing to the downward growth of a process from the dorsal margin of their openings .
This process ( the " valve " of Spengel ) appears about a week after the first appearance of each gill-slit .
By the continual dorso-ventral elongation of the gill-slits , together with an antero-posterior compression , their openings become U-shaped .
The digestive region is yellow-brown in colour .
Its walls are thrown into a spiral fold , giving it a sacculated appearance when seen in transparent specimens .
The intestinal region is straight , and long cilia may be seen working in its interior , causing an outward current .
The anus is now dorsal , and can only be closed by an indrawing of the intestine .
( 8 .
) A large vesicle may be seen pulsating in the base of the proboscis , , as described in Tornaria by previous observers .
In the dorsal middle line is a longitudinal vessel , which contracts peristaltically , like that of B. minutus ( Spengel ) .
These contractions appear to have no constant direction .
The vascular movements are not correlated to movements of the body .
Ho contractions were seen in the ventral vessel , though their absence was not satisfactorily shown .
Ho further points of importance can be seen in an examination of the larvae as whole objects .
It has been stated by Spengel with regard to B. minutus , that water is taken into the body cavity of the proboscis at the proboscis-pore , and into that of the collar by the two ciliated funnels which open into it .
My own observations do not confirm either of these statements ; on the contx*ary , particles of Indian ink or carmine held in suspension in the water cannot be found to enter into either of these cavities , while if placed artificially in them are driven out at all three of these points .
On the other hand the particles are carried into the alimentary canal by the ciliary currents , and are more or less expelled thence at the gill-slits .
Spengel 's statement of the absence of the pore described by Kowalevsky and Agassiz , at the apex of the proboscis , is true for all the species which I have examined .
Internal Structure .
Alimentary Canal.\#151 ; As mentioned above , the mouth is anteriorly directed .
The gill-clefts arise as saccular paired evaginations from the pharynx which come into contact with the skin .
The two layers coalesce , become very thin , and then break down , forming openings into the alimentary canal , which are at first circular .
In young speci26 Mr. W. Bateson .
On the Development of [ Dec. 18 , mens ( 1\#151 ; 2 gills ) a rod of hypoblast , solid in front , and behind containing a lumen opening into that of the pharynx , is gradually constricted off from the hypoblast in the dorsal middle line of the pharynx .
This hypoblastic rod grows forward into the proboscis cavity , pushing in the mesoblastic lining .
The lumen opens into the gut throughout life .
In B. KowalevsTcii the opening is slit-like , and extends through the middle third of the collar .
A complicated structureless skeleton is secreted by it on its ventral side , which is continued posteriorly into two diverging horns , which lie in the walls of the foregut .
This skeletal structure in B. Kowalevskii differs slightly from that described by Spengel for B. minutus .
In young larva* the cells of this hypoblastic rod are columnar , but they gradually become irregular , vacuolated , and enclosed in a sheath , eventually in larvae with seven or more gill-slits presenting an appearance precisely comparable to that figured by Scott for the notochord of young Lampreys , and by Balfour for that of young Elasmobranchs .
It becomes narrowed in the region of the proboscis stalk , where the skeletal structures secreted by it attain their maximum thickness .
When isolated it is found to consist of hard cartilaginous tissue .
It serves to support the proboscis stalk , and to stiffen the wall of the collar ; also as an attachment for the muscles of the collar and proboscis .
This is the statement of its function which is also made by Spengel .
From its development , position , histology , and function , it appears to me to be comparable with the notochord of the Chordata , and by this name it will be hereafter alluded to .
This view of its homology is supported by the presence in the Enteropneusta of many other structures pointing to vertebrate affinities .
The Nervous System.\#151 ; The commencing separation of the central nervous system at the time of hatching as a solid cord in the dorsal middle line of the collar extends itself anteriorly as far as the collarfold , and posteriorly to the region of the first gill-slit .
In advanced larvae ( ten gill-slits ) its anterior end contains a canal opening to the exterior in the dorsal middle line at the anterior end of the collarfold .
This canal will be spoken of as the neural canal , and its pore as the neural pore .
As far as it is possible , in the absence of figures , to follow Spengel 's account of the development of this structure in Tomaria , it appears to take place by the invagination of a median furrow in this region , the neural canal being thus present from the beginning .
[ As Spengel states , in B. , \amp ; c. , the lumen is posteriorly not continuous , but is broken up by strands of nerve cells .
] This also holds for the anterior end in B. Kowalevshii .
The rest of the nervous system , excepting that at the base of the proboscis , does not appear till much later ( three to four gill-slits ) .
Its position has been already described .
Its origin in each case is due 1884.1 Balanoglossus Kowalevskii ( Agassiz ) , fyc .
to the formation of fibres and occasional ganglion cells from the lowest layer of the skin .
The Body-cavities.\#151 ; I have already described the formation of the proboscis body-cavity from a single anterior pouch of the archenteron , having two posteriorly directed horns .
On the left of the proboscis stalk ( one to two gill-slits ) an internal thickening of the epiblast arises .
A cavity appears in this structure , which becomes open to the exterior .
Subsequently it opens internally to the left horn .
This opening is the proboscis pore .
Spengel states that in B. a similar pore is also present on the right side .
In connexion with this fact I may mention that in a single specimen of B. Kowalevskii ( seven gill-slits ) , which was also otherwise abnormal , I found this double arrangement .
The two collar body-cavities coalesce in the adult on the ventral side , the septum remaining dorsally .
Their cavities are prolonged into two horns , which run in the proboscis stalk side by side with the posterior horns of the anterior body-cavities .
Into the collar body-cavity opens the pair of ciliated funnels leading to the exterior , mentioned by Spengel .
He describes them without a figure as arising from the anterior gill-pouch .
In B. Kowalevskii they arise as thickenings of the mesoblast , lining the inner fold of the posterior limb of the collar .
These thickenings become hollow and strongly ciliated , opening with the first gill-slit into the atrial cavity formed by the collar fold .
In B. minutus this atrial cavity is reduced to a minimum ; the posterior skin of the collar runs , therefore , directly into the skin of the first gill-slit .
It appears that these funnels are of an excretory character .
This view is supported by the fact that Hatschek has recently mentioned the presence of an excretory tube opening with the first gill-slit of Amphioxus on the left side .
The posterior pair of mesoblastic pouches remain separate throughout life , lining the whole body-cavity posterior to the collar .
They send forward a pair of horns between the notochord and the neural cord as far as the proboscis pore .
The first blood-vessel arises as a splitting in the septum formed by the adjacent walls of these two horns , and is continued forwards with their growth .
This remains throughout life as the dorsal bloodvessel .
The ventral blood-vessel is formed as a split in the ventral septum between the third pair of body-cavities .
The dorsal vessel is continuous with the cavity which is correctly described by Spengel as immediately overlying the notochord in the proboscis .
This cavity is filled with coagulum , its walls are muscular , and it would seem to me to be the true heart .
The space overlying it , which is called by Spengel " the heart , " contains , as he has described , a variable quantity of loose cellular tissue .
This may possibly be of a glandular character ; it is continuous with that of the Mr. W. Bateson .
On Development of [ " Dec. 18 , glandular body which is attached to the end of the notochord .
As far as could be observed through the body wall of the living animal , the pulsations in this region are those of the tube lying immediately upon the notochord .
Moreover , this structure gives off all the bloodvessels of the body , both according to Spengel and from my own observations , while none of them are supposed to arise from the glandular portion , which has besides no distinct muscular wall .
The " glandular body " lying at the sides of these structures is in appearance closely comparable to the so-called " heart " of Asterias , being perforated by a network of blood-vessels ( Spengel ) .
The posterior body-cavities are prolonged into the cavity of the temporary tail , remaining separated by the vertical septum .
It may be desirable to discuss briefly the new light which these facts throw upon the affinities of the group Enteropneusta .
In 1881 Metschnikoff published a detailed comparison of Balano-glossus with the Echinoderms , comparing Tornaria with Bipinnaria , showing that the resemblance is close , and concluding with the suggestion that Balanoglossus should be included among the Echino-dermata in a separate division , " Bilateralia .
" The branchial structures he compared to the openings from the body cavities of Echinoderms .
This view , as thus expressed , receives no support from further observations , and would now appear to be untenable .
As mentioned above , all the Enteropneusta possess a supporting structure which is comparable with the notochord in every way , except in extent and in the persistence of its connexion with the alimentary canal .
Its resemblance to that of Amphioxus is especially striking , for in Amphioxus the notochord projects a long way in frort of the mouth .
It moreover possesses gill-slits which are not only without parallel , except among the Chordata , but also in structure , position , and development , agree exactly with those of Amphioxus , in which the slits acquire the same ( J -shaped form .
The agreement in the position of the blood-vessels and skeleton of the gill-bars is also very close .
The fact of their gradual increase in number from before backwards throughout life is another common feature .
The position and mode of origin of the central nervous system is also similar in both forms ; the invagination of the dorsal cord in Balanoglossus being , however , only partial , while that of Amphioxus is complete .
The mesoblastic pouches suggest the same resemblance , differing only from those of Amphioxus in number , being one median and four lateral , while those of Amphioxus are one median and twenty-eight lateral .
As I have already pointed out , the fate of this anterior pouch is in the two animals closely similar .
In both it is divided into two as the notochord grows forward .
In Amphioxus the division is complete .
1884.1 Balanoglossus Kowalevskii ( Agassiz ) , fyc .
while in Balanoglossus it is partial .
In both , the backwardly-projecting horn upon the left side becomes lined by ciliated columnar cells and opens to the exterior .
Moreover , in both animals this opening has a definite relation to the nervous system .
In Amphioxus it becomes the " olfactory " pit ( Hatschek ) , while in Balanoglossus it is surrounded by a mass of nervous tissue .
Finally , the collar folds , especially of B. Kowalevskii , would appear to be comparable with the commencing atrial folds of Amphioxus , for the most anterior gill-slits open into the cavity which is thus enclosed .
The pair of ciliated funnels opening from the collar body cavities to the atrium has been compared above to the excretory tube mentioned by Hatschek in a similar position in Amphioxus .
A pair of tubes has been described by Lankester in Amphioxus opening into the back of the atrial cavity , communicating with the dorsal body cavities .
It may be remarked that if the collar fold of B. Kowalevskii were prolonged backwards , as the atrial folds are in Amphioxus , the two collar funnels would then be carried backwards , and have a relation similar to that of these tubes which , as suggested by Lankester , may be excretory .
To recapitulate : Striking resemblances to the Chordata and especially to the Cephalochord type are to be found in the following structures ( 1 .
) The notochord .
( 2 .
) The gills and branchial skeleton and blood supply .
( 3 .
) The central nervous system .
( 4 .
) The origin of the mesoblast . .
( 5 .
) The peculiar fate and remarkable asymmetry of the anterior pouch .
( 6 .
) The atria . .
( 7 .
) The excretory funnels .
In each of these cases , excepting that of the branchial structures and the excretory funnels , the condition is that which would be produced by a partial or arrested development of the corresponding structure in Amphioxus .
The above considerations appear to justify us in including the Enteropneusta among the Chordata .
I would , therefore , tentatively suggest the following table :\#151 ; Chordata :\#151 ; Hemichordata ( Enteropneusta ) .
Urochorda ( Ascidians ) .
Cephalochorda ( Amphioxus ) .
Vertebrata .
It is not now proposed to enter into a more detailed discussion of the morphology of the group , or of the light which an acceptance of this suggestion throws on the origin of the Chordata .
A fuller examinaBalanoglossus Kowalevskii ( Agassiz ) , \lt ; $-c .
[ Dec. 18 , tion of these points , together with a detailed account of the anatomy and development , is reserved for a subsequent occasion .
It may , nevertheless , be advisable to point out that since , according to Spengel , the tissue of the " water vessel " of Tornaria forms the lining of the proboscis cavity of B. minutus , this " water vessel " is therefore the same structure as the anterior body cavity in the form just described .
If then the " water vessel " of Tornaria is comparable to the " water vessel " of Bipinnaria , which has a similarly asymmetrical development upon the left hand side of the body , which view has been held by all previous observers , it would therefore appear to follow that the water vessel of Bipinnaria is primd facie comparable with the asymmetrical anterior body cavity of Amphioxus .
List of Papers referred to .
1 .
Agassiz , Alex .
, " Hist , of Balanoglossus and Tornaria , " " Mem. Amer .
Acad. , " vol. ix .
2 .
Balfour , P. M. , " Monograph on Elasmobranch Pishes , " 1878 .
3 .
Bateson , W. , " Early Stages in dev .
of Balanoglossus , " " Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , " April , 1884 .
4 .
Hatschek , B. , " Stud , ub Entw .
d. Amphioxus , " Claus ' " Arbeiten , " Wien , 1881 .
5 .
Hatschek , B. , " Mitth .
ub .
Amphioxus , " " Zool. Anz .
, " Sept. 29 , 1884 .
6 .
Kowalevsky , A. , " Anatomy des Balanoglossus , " " Mem. Acad. Imp .
Sci. , " St. Petersburg , 1866 .
7 .
Metschnikoff , E. , " Ueb .
d. Metam .
einiger .
Seethiere , " " Z. f. W. Z. , " 20 , 1870 .
8 .
Lankester , E. Ray , " Hew Points in Structure of Amphioxus , " " Q. J. M. S. , " xv , p. 257 .
9 .
Metschnikoff , E. , " Deb .
d. Syst. Stell .
v. Balanoglossus , " " Zool. Anz .
, " 1881 .
10 .
Scott , W. B. , " Beitrage z. Entw .
d. Petromyzonten , " " Morph .
Jahrb .
, " Bd .
vii .
11 .
Spengel , J. W. , " Bau .
u. Entw .
v. Balanoglossus , " " Tag .
d. Haturf .
Ver. , " Miinchen , 1877 .
12 .
Spengel , J. W. , " Z. Anat .
d. Balanoglossus , " " Mitth .
a d. Zool. Sta .
z. Neapel .
, " Bd .
5 , Hft .
iii and iv .

