VI .
" ' Remnarks on the late Storms of October 25-26 and November 1 , 1859 .
" By Rear-Admiral FITZRoy , F.R.S. Received December 22 , 1859 .
As many of our Society must doubtless be interested in the nature and character of that storm in which the ' Royal Charter ' went to pieces on Anglesea Island , and as abundant information has been obtained from Lighthouses , Observatories , and numerous private observers , I would take this earliest opportunity of stating that the combined results of observations prove the storm of October 25th and 26th to have been a complete horizontal cyclonie .
'Travelling bodily northward , the area of its sweep being scarcely 300 miles in diameter , its influence affected only the breadth of our own Islands ( exclusive of the west of Ireland ) and the coast of France .
While the central portion was advancing northward , not uniformly but at an average rate of about twenty miles an hour , the actual velocity of the wind-circling ( as against watch-hanids ) around a small central " lull " -was from forty to nearly eighty miles an hour .
At places north-westward of its centre , the wind appeared to " 'back " or " retrograde , " shifting from east through north-east , and north to north-west ; while at places eastward of its central passage , the apparent change , or veering , was from east , through south-east , soutb , south-west , and west .
Our Channel squadron , not far from the Eddystone , experienced a rapid , indeed almost a sudden shift of the wind from south-east to north-west , being at the time in , or near , the cenitral lull ; while , so near as at Guernsey , the wind veered round by south , regularly , without any lull .
This sudden shift off the Eddystone occurred at about three ( or soon after ) , and at nearly half-past five it took place near Reigate , westward of which the central lull passed .
From this south-eastern part of England , the central portion of the storm moved northward and eastward .
Places on the east and north coasts of Scotland had strong easterly or northerly gales a day nearly later than the middle of England .
When the 'Royal Charter ' was wrecked , Aberdeen and Banffshire were not disturbed by wind ; but when it blew hardest , from east to north , on that exposed coast , the storm had abated or almost ceased in the Channel and on the south coast of Ireland .
Further details would be ill-timed now , but they will be given in a paper to the Royal Society , as soon as additional observations from the Contilnent , and from ships at sea , have been collected and duly combined with other records .
The storm of the 31st , and 1st of November , was similar in character ; but its central part passed just to the west of Ireland 's south-west coast , and thence north-eastward .
Of both these gales the barometer and thermometer , besides other things , gave ample warning ; and telegraphic notice might have been given in sufficient time from the southern ports to those of the eastern and northern coasts of our Islands .
As it is the north-west half of the cyclone ( from north-east to south-west , true ) which is influenced chiefly by the cold , dry , heavy , and positively electrified polar atmospheric current , and the southwest half that shows effects of equatorial streams of air-warm , moist , light , and negatively electrified ; -places over which one part of a cyclone passes are affected differently from others which are traversed by another part of the very same meteor , or atmospheric eddy , the eddy itself being caused by the meeting of very extensive bodies of air , moving in nearly , but not exactly opposite directions , one of which gradually overpowers , or combines with the other , after the rotation .
On the polar half of the cyclone , continually supplied from tisat side , the visible effect is a drying up and clearing of the air , with a rising barometer and falling thermometer ; while oin the equatorial side , overpowering quanitities of warm moist air-rushing from comparatively inexhaustible tropical supplies-push towards the north-east as long as their impetus lasts ( however originated ) , and are successively chilled , dried , and intermingled wiith the always resisting , though at first recoiling , polar current .
After such struggles these two currents unite in .
a varying intermediate state and direction , one or other prevailing gradually .
Very plaini and practical conclusions are deducible from these considerations : Onie , and the most important , is that in a gale which seems likely to be near the central part of a storm , that should be ( of course ) avoided by a ship which has sea room : a seaman , facing the wind , knows that the centre is on his right hand in the northern hemisphere , on his left in the southern ; he therefore is informed how to steer .
Another valuable result is that telegraphic communication can give notice of a storm 's approach , to places then some hundred miles distant , and not otherwise forewarned .

