]\gt ; The Photo-electric Fatigue of By H. STANLEY ALLEN , M.A. , B.Sc. , Senior Lecturer in Physics at 's College , London .
( Communicated by Professor H. A. Wilson , F.R.S. Received October \mdash ; Read November 15 , 1906 .
) Hertz 's observation*that ultra-violet light can facilitate the passage of an electric spark led to the discovery of other photo-electric actions .
In the earliest experiments on the photo-electric effect of metals it was noticed that the action was diminished by exposure to .
Thus vachsJ who founcl that a metal becomes positively electrified under the influence of ultra-violet light , states that " " old surfaces no show the phenomenon .
The radiation itself lowers the potential to the plates can be electrified , so that with any succeeding experiment made with the same surface the potential obtained is lower , while tlJe rise to it takes place more rapidly , and the decrease is greater than when for the same of time the experiments the plate was not illuminated This diminution of the photo-electric action is spoken of as " " fatigue\ldquo ; of metals under the influence of .
It has received attention from many physicists , of whom BuissonS and Ladenburg may be specially referred to .
The present paper deals with the manner in which the photo-electric activity of zinc diminishes when the metal is exposed to DESCRIPTION 0F APPARATUS .
1 .
Source of Light.\mdash ; Some preliminary experiments } made with the electric arc , limelight , and burning magnesium , but these proved too unsteady to give reliable results over long intervals of the Doeneral character of the fatigue curves was similar to that of the obtained later with a steady source .
A Nernst lanJp was found to give actinic light for the observations , nd when the current was supplied from a battery of large storage cells this source reltained sufficiently steady for hours .
When the lamp was run on the town mains the variations in 'Wied .
Ann vol. 31 , p. 983 , 1887 .
See J. J. Thomson , 'Recent esearches ' and tion of Electricity Gases .
' Phil. Mag Series 5 , vol. 2 p. 78 , 1888 .
S 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 130 , p. , 1900 ; 'Ann .
Chim .
Phys vol. , pp. 320\mdash ; 398 , November , 1901 .
'Ann . .
Physik , ' vol. 12 , pp. , 1903 .
484 Mr. H. S. Allen .
lamp tntensity ohown borresponding irregularitiesof tupply caused considerable fluctuations iurrent through t : in the fatigue curve .
2 .
Testing Vessel and pparatus was practically a rallel-plate air condenser enclosed in a metal box .
The construction of the testing vessel employed is shown iu the diagram ( fig. 1 ) .
The vessel was of brass , closed at top and bottom by brass covers screwed on .
The top cover had a circular aperture closed by a quartz window , B. The central electrode , , was insulated from the base by an ebonite plug , E. Small iron cups containing mercury are shown at and * the latter being in metallic connection with the case of the apparatus , which was perwood lever served tmake oreak themanently earthed.upported connection between the mercury cups , whilst the observer relnained at a distance from the apparatus .
is a thick lead plate with a circular hole , placed between the and the apparatus to shield the latter from ineffective radiation .
In most of these experiments the upper plate of the condenser was formed by the lower face of the artz window , rendered conducting by phosphoric acid , as suggested by Strutt .
In other experiments it consisted of a piece of wire gauze , ported by , but insulated from , the cover of the apparatus .
This upper plate was connected to the positive terminal of a battery of small accumulators ( 200 elements ) , the other end of the battery being to earth .
The lower plate of the condenser , formed by the piece of zinc to be tested , was connected to one set of quadrants of an electrometer , the other set being earthed .
The rate of leak of electricity across the gap was measured by the time taken for the electrometer needle ( observed with telescope and scale ) to turn through aiven angle .
A Kelvin electrometer , with replenisher and gauge , was used most frequently , but in some experiments an electrometer of the Dolezalek type wfts oyed .
.3 .
Method of ) erimenting.\mdash ; The zinc plates used in these experiments were 5 cm .
in diameter .
They were either polished or amalgamated .
In the former case { he final polishing was done with rouge paper , either by hand or 1906 .
] The Photo-electric Fatigue of Zinc .
in the lathe .
Ladenburg*has pointed out that as the polish increases the discharge approaches a maximum , a result that was confirmed in these experiments .
The surface of the amalgamated plate was renewed by rubbing a few globules of mercury over it with a cloth .
The freshly polished or re-amalgamated plate placed in the vesse ] , on the central electrode , the cover put in position , the electrical connections made and the Nernst lamp lighted .
Observations were usually commenced within two nlinutes of the preparation of the plate and were continued as as desired , readings of the rate of leak being generally taken at intervals of two minutes .
4 .
Results ] with Zinc.\mdash ; The general course of the decay curves was similar for polished and amalgamated zinc .
The fatigue was very rapid immediately after the ) etal to light , but after some time ( usually 20 or 30 utes from the commencement ) the rate of decay became much slower .
Such a result would be expected in the case of a change following the compound interest law but the initial decay observed compared with that in the later stages was even more rapid than would be required by such a change .
The results are most clearly exhibited by plotting them on semi-logarithmic paper , where the ordinate represents the arithm of the rate of leak , the abscissa the time from the first illumination of the piate .
An exponential formula would be represented by a straight line .
The curve the observed results consists of two parts , the first ( AB ) convex to the origin : the second ( BC ) a straight line inclined to the axes .
That is to say , after about half hour 's exposure to light the decay of the activity may be expressed by a single exponential term .
This was confirmed by continuing the oyer a lotJg period .
The curve reproduced in fig. 2 shows that after the first rapid change the activity decays ill an exponential man ner for several hours .
The place during the first 100 inutes of experiments are shown more clearly in and 4 .
The vertical scale in .
is ot the same as in the later ralns , for in these the of leak about 10 times those recorded in the former .
If the straight portion is continued backwards in the manner shown in , and the difference between the rates of leak corresponding to and is plotted ainst the time on semi-logarithmic paper , another light line is obtained , steeply inclined to the horizontal axis .
This shows the ) results can be represented by the sum of two exponential terms , so that the electric acCivity is given by the enlpirical formula 486 Mr. H. S. Allen .
[ Oct. 26 , 486 Mr. H. S. Allen .
[ Oct. 26 , For polished zinc this formula was found to apply under val'ied conditions , respecting the polish of the plate and the intensity of the illumination .
The value of was than 10 times that of , and was of the same order of magnitude as 5 .
In order to render more evident the reement between the results of observation and those obtained by calculation from the above formula , the Fro .
2 .
Pboto-electric Fatigue of Zinc .
Experiments made June 30 , 1905 .
Nernst lamp taking ampore on 110-volt circuit .
following table has been constructed for a selected case .
This series of observations August was made with well polished zinc , illuminated by a 1-ampere Nernst lamp on a 110-volt circuit .
The first reading was taken three minutes after the polishing of the ziuc plate was completed .
The exact stant of lighting the Nernst lamp was not noted in this experiment , but it 906 .
] The Photo-electric of Zinc .
is assumed to have taken place two minutes after polisbing .
The first column of the table gives the time in minutes from the first illumination of the plate .
The last column gives the observed value of the photo-electric current , expressed as the number of scale divisions that would be passed over in 100 seconds .
* Experiments made ,1900 with by Lamp .
Nernst Lan * The actual observation was the time taken to pass over 100 scale divisions .
division per second corresponded to anlpore .
488 Mr. H. S. Allen .
[ Oct. 26 , In the fourth column we have the calculated value of the current , the number being the sum of those in the two preceding columns .
The first exponential term falls to half value in minutes , the second in 94 minutes , the constan ts of being and .
The first term accordingly diminishes in value and becomes after Photo-electric Fatigue of Zinc .
Experiment made August 7 , 1905 , with well-polished zinc .
Experiment made July 24 , 1905 , with polished zinc .
Nernst lamp taking 1 ampere on 110-volt circuit .
1906 .
] The Photo-electric of Zinc .
45 minutes .
The values for the calculated current in the second part of the table are derived from the term 6 .
These results are plotted on rithmic paper in fig. 3 .
On the sanJe diagram is shown the fatigue curve for another experiment July 24 , 1905 in which the zinc plate was polished by hand instead of in the lathe , giving much smaller values for the photo-electric current .
The constants of change in this case are and the time taken to fall to half value 5 minutes and 67 minutes respectively .
7 .
The values found for and were of the same order as those just mentioned , in all the experiments carried out with polished zinc , the conditions as to polish and to intensity of illumination were varied within wide limits .
The rate at which the character of the surface under the influence of is consequently not much affected by the conditions named .
8 .
of Zinc.\mdash ; Fatigue curves of a similal character were obtained with malgamated zinc .
Orle of the curves is shown in the lower half of fig. 4 .
In the rapid change at the outset the activity falls to half value in minutes , the constant of chnnge .
The second is much slower , the time taken for the activity to diminish one half minutes and the value of .
In case is and K2 is 148 ( scale divisions per 100 seconds ) , so that is about six times 9 .
The experiments I have carried out , using the Nernst lanll ) as a source of light , confirm in most particulars the results at ) ) with sunlight .
The chief point of difference is the clear nitio of the fact that the rate of decay at the outset is too great to be represented ) the single exponential that is sufficient for the later .
This is , in facf , , mentioned by Buisson , but is ibuted to experimental errors conse upon the use of a gold-leaf electroscope .
have plotted some of his results , and find that they can bs represented with far greater accuracy by employing two exponential terms .
10 .
th eory of jssive experiments already described show that the photo-electric activity of a zinc plate decays in a perfeotly definite manner when a freshly-polished plate is exposed to light .
The activity at any time after the plate has been polished can be represented by an empirical formula the sum of two exponential terllS , .
cit. Mr. H. S. Allen .
[ Oct. 26 , .
' ' .
FIG. 4 .
Photo-electric Fatigue of Amalgamated Zinc .
Experiment made July 28 , 1906 , without absorbing tion .
Experiment made August 1 , 1906 , with absorbing solution .
Nernst lamp taking 1 ampere on 110-volt circuit .
To explain this esult we assume that freshly-polished zinc ( A ) gives out negative ions under the influence of ultra-violeb light , and changes to a form ( the change may be either a physical or a chemical one ) .
also gives rise to a supply of negative ions , and to a third form , , which is supposed to be inactive .
At present we do not consider the nature of the substances ( whether physical or chemical modifications of zino ) denoted by and C. 1906 .
] The Photo-electric ' Zinc .
Suppose we start with a quantity of substance A. Let this change into in such a way that the rate of change at any instant is proportional to the quantity still unchanged .
Let subsequently change into , in accordance with the same law .
If denote the quantities of the several substances present at a time For the change from A to , so The quantity is the " " velocity coefficient\ldquo ; of the first change .
The rate at which accumulates is equal to the quantity supplied by less the quantity that changes into , thus\mdash ; being the velocity coefiicient for the second change .
This gives To solve this equation we assume Substituting this value , we find , or When ; so , giving .
Thus , finally , we obtain as the values*of , and .
We assume that the observed photo-electrical activity is due in part to the substance , in part to the substance , so that we write where A and are constants measuring the activity of the corresponding substances .
* These results are given in Rutherford 's ' -ity ' ( Second Edition , S 10 Mr. H. S. Allen .
[ Oct. 26 , 492 Mr. H. S. Allen .
[ Oct. 26 , for and we obtain This expression is of the required form , provided the coefficients are both positive quantities , for the empirical results can be represented by the sum of two exponential terms .
To satisfy this condition must be greater than , i.e. , the first must be the more rapid one .
In the experiments already described was large in comparison with so that an approximate value of the activity by As is of the same order of magnitude as K2 for zinc , we should require to make A approximately twice as great as B. 11 .
Recovery Due to the Longer Waves.\mdash ; In some of the experiments , more particularly with amalgamated zinc , the rapid at first observed was followed by a radual recovery of the activity to a maximum value , which was , however , far smaller than the initial value .
After this maximum value was passed the ordinary slow decay set in .
This effect is illustrated in the upper curve of fig. 4 , which shows the first part of the fatigue curve with the sudden fall in activity at the start followed by a rise .
The subsequent slow decay is not shown here .
The small recovery observed in these cases was traced to the action of the longer waves from the Nernst lamp .
It very much diminished by filling the in the cover of the testing vessel with water and was completely eliminated when the water was replaced by a solution of alum .
The fatigue curve obtained with amalgamated zinc when ) longer waves are absorbed is shown at the bottom of the same This action of the waves of greater wave length may be due simply to a temperature effect , for the photo-electric aclivity of metals is in general greater at a high temperature than at a low one ; or it may be analogous to the effect observed by Buisson , found that all radiations do not work in the same sense as regards the contact differeIlce of potential .
12 .
Experiments on Zinc in has shown that many metals exhibit photo-electric in t ) vacuum .
also maintains that the alteration in a metallic surface produced by sunlight is independent of the pressure .
On the other hand , VarleyS states that zinc illuminated by the of an iron arc shows little or no sign of fatigue when the pressure .
cit. .
cit. .
cit. S 'Phil .
Traus pp. 439\mdash ; 458 , 1903 .
$ 1906 .
] The of Zinc .
is below , say , the tenth of an atmosphere .
Smolochowski , in some unpublished experiments on the liquid alloy of sodium and potassium , found that the decay phenomena do not take place in a vacuum .
I have carried out some experiments on zinc in a good vacuum obtained by Dewar 's method of absorbing the gas by charcoal cooled in liquid air , and found that the light of a Nernst lalnp produced unmistakable fatigue .
The results , however , were not sufficiently accurate to allow satisfactory fatigue curves to be drawn .
13 .
Summary \mdash ; The experiments described in this paper show that it is necessary to employ the sum of two exponential terms in order to obtain an adequate representation for the photo-electric curve of zinc .
Just as Rutherford has explained the curves of decay for the excited activity of radium and thorium as a consequence of successive changes , so it is possible to explain the present results as to two consecutive changes .
The nature of the modifications thus suggested is left an open question .
It is also shown that the longer waves of light can bring about a in the opposite sense , that is to say , they can produce a certain amount of recovery of photo-electric activity .
In conclusion , I must express my great indebtedness to Lord Blythswood , in whose at Renfrew some of these experiments were carried out , and also to Professor H. A. Wilson for advice and vgestions during the period of my work in the Wheatstone Laboratory of King 's College , London .
[ Note added October \mdash ; In a paper published in the ' Philosophical azine ' for the present month ( pp. 414\mdash ; 418 ) , Sir Wm. Ramsay and Dr. Spencer discuss the " " tiring\ldquo ; of metals when exposed to ulra-yoet light .
The curves they have obtained for nesium , zinc and tin show a number of breaks , the number to the number of valencies of the metal .
In the case of aluminium at least five or six breaks were observed .
The fatigue curves that I have obtained for zinc illuminated by the light of a Nornst lamp do not show these breaks , the point at which the first rapid becomes insensible is regarded as a break in the curve .
If the results given above are interpreted in terms of the theory put forward by Sir Wm. Ramsay and Dr. Spencer , the modification that I have called zinc would presumably correspond to zinc which has lost the first of the " " metallic corpuscles * This may , perhaps , be due to the fact that the same zinc plate was used repeatedly , being repolished before an experiment .
According to Sir William Ramsay and Dr. Spencer , the breaks in the curve are much less persistent in such a case .
VOL. LXXVIII.\mdash ; A.

