Experiments on Ammonia , and an Account of a new Method of analysing it , by Combustion with Oxygen and other Gases ; in a Letter to Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R.S. 8sc .
from William Henry , M.D. F.R.S. V.P. of the Lit. and Phil. Society , and Physician to the Infirmary , at Manchester* .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 430 .
] Dr. Henry having detected a fallacy in the experiments lately communicated to the Society , in which oxygen gas appeared to be evolved from ammonia by electric discharges , has repeated the experiments with more care , and is now satisfied that no portion whatever of oxygen gas can be separated .
He next endeavoured to detect the production of water , which would equally establish the existence of oxygen as a constituent ; and though mere electrization did not enable him to discover the smallest quantity of moisture , he hoped , by exposure of the gas to aI freezing mixture , that it might be detected .
But although , by a cold equal to zero of Fahrenheit , a slight degree of moisture was perceptible , even this appearance varied in degree ; and Dr. Henry was ultimately convinced , that even this arose from the mercury , or from some extraneous source .
With regard to the quantity of nitrogen and hydrogen gases evolved from ammonia by electrization , Dr. Henry is of opinion that they have been underrated by Mr. Davy , and that the proportion they bear to each other is not exactly what it has been represented .
According to Dr. Henry , 100 of ammonia give 198*78 ; and the proportion of hydrogen to nitrogen is as 71-4 to 28*6 in the 100 .
On account of the tedious labour of decomposing any quantity of ammonia by the mere repeated shocks of electricity , the author was induced to seek some new method of operating , and after various trials succeeded to his satisfaction , by detonation with oxygen .
When more than three parts of oxygen gas are mixed with one of ammonia , or when so little as only half of oxygen is mixed with one of ammonia , the mixtures are not combustible ; but when any intermediate quantity of oxygen is employed , the ammonia is consumed in proportion , and entirely disappears if the oxygen is more than double its bulk .
Dr. Henry , however , discovered an important advantage of using an under proportion of oxygen ; for though the whole of the hydrogen is not then consumed , yet the whole of the ammonia is decomposed ; for after detonation the remaining hydrogen , and the whole of the nitrogen , are in a gaseous state , composing a mixture which may be detonated with a fresh addition of oxygen ; and in this way all the hydrogen may be saturated with oxygen , and the nitrogen may be obtained as a final result of the process .
From a set of experiments thus conducted , the proportion of hydrogen to the nitrogen in ammonia was pretty uniformly 70-6 to 29-4 ; but there was some irregularity in the entire quantities of both , the highest results being as much as 200-6 , and the lowest only 182 from 100 of alkaline gas ; a difference which Dr. Henry cannot fully explain , but supposes it may arise from absorption of ammonia by mercury , and subsequent liberation by the shock .
The letter concludes withi the mention of some experiments on the electrization of carburetted hydrogen , olefiant gas , carbonic oxide , and carbonic acid .
Carburetted hydrogen and olefiant gas were each expanded considerably in bulk ; no carbonic acid was generated , but charcoal was deposited on the surface of the tube .
Carbonic acid was also partially decomposed by long electrization , and was converted into carbonic oxide and oxygen ; and accordingly carbonic oxide underwent no change by the same operation .

