XIX .
On the temperature at considerable depths of the Caribbean Sea .
By Captain EDWARD SABINE , F.R.S. , in a Letter addressed to Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , Bart. Pres. R. S. Read April 17 , i823 .
MY DEAR SIR , HENI last quitted England , you did me the favour to direct my attention to the temperature at considerable depths of fresh water lakes within the tropics , or of basins of salt water out of the reach of currents from the polar regions , and in climates where the lowest temperature of the superincumbent atmosphere is above 42 ? .
, as the point of the greatest density of water ; viewing such knowledge in reference to the important question of the high temperature of the interior of the globe .
It has been a subject of continual regret to me , that situations in which the experiment could be tried , under circumstances which would alone render it decisive of the point in question , are of such rare occurrence , that not a single opportunity has presented itself to me on either side of the Atlantic , of carrying your suggestion into effect .
As , however , it gave occasion to an attempt to ascertain the temperature of the Caribbean sea , at a depth beyond the means of sounding with which ships are usually provided , I may be permitted to take this mode of acquainting you of the result .
The Caribbean and Mexican seas , near the junction of which the experiment was made , approach the nearest , perhaps , to the character of insulated and deep basins of salt water of any detached portions of the main ocean within the tropics ; whilst however the connection is preserved , and by deep sea channels , it could scarcely be doubted , that if the colder water of distant regions finds its way to the equatorial parallels of the main ocean , it would no less pervade the corresponding depths in the same parallels , wheresoever a communication existed to admit its passage : if such an opinion required confirmation , it appears to have received it by the result of the present experiment .
A transcript of the memorandum which I wrote at the time , may probably be deemed the most satisfactory mode of relation .
' H. M. S. Pheasant , on passage between Grand Cayman Island and Cape St. Antonio , in Cuba , lat. 2o -N .
Ion .
83 W. , November isth , 1822 .
" At 2 P , M. hove too , and sounded with 1230 fathoms of line , being 11 coils of 113 fathoms each , and three fathoms of a 12th coil ; at the end of the line was attached a strong iron cylinder of 75 lbs. weight , enclosing a Six 's self-registering thermometer : the top of the cylinder screwed down upon leather , being designed , by excluding the water from the interior , to obviate any effect which might be supposed to arise from the increased pressure of water at great depths : the thermometer fitted into spiral springs at the top and bottom , which kept it from contact with other parts of the cylinder , and preserved it from injury , in case the apparatus should accidentally strike against the sides of the ship , or against rocks at the bottom : another iron cylinder , of much less strength and weight than the preceding , was attached two fathoms above the end of the line , and being pierced 0o7 with holes in the top and bottom , admitted free access of the water to a second thermometer , of similar construction to the first .
The opportunity was very favourable for the object , the weather being fine , with light airs and but little swell : the 123o fathoms run out in rather more than 25 minutes , at the expiration of which time the line was fairly on the quarter , the ship 's drift having been bodily to leeward , without her having had either head or stern way ; there was consequently much less stray line than had been anticipated .
The best practical judgment which Captain CLAVERING could form on the spot was , that the depth to which the thermometers had actually attained must have exceeded a thousand fathoms , as an allowance of the remaining 230 fathoms for stray line 'would certainly be more than ample , if no bight of consequence existed in the rope , which , from the appearance , and from the rapidity with which the weight drew out the line , might be judged the case : 230 fathoms would equal a drift to leeward of A{ths of a mile in 25 minutes , whereas that of the ship did not exceed a mile an hour ; it is more than probable , therefore , that the depth is underrated when it is estimated at looo fathoms , or 6oo0 feet .
The line was hauled in in 53 minutes , and the thermometers came up in good order ; the one in the cylinder to which the water had free access had registered 45 ?
,5 ; the attempt to exclude the water from the other cylinder did not in this instance altogether succeed , in consequence of the top not having been screwed down sufficiently close upon the leather ; this thermometer had registered 49 ?
,5 ; the difference of ?
4 may be attributed , perhaps , partly to the latter not having been so long in contact with the cold water as the other thermometer , o08 as the water appeared to have had great difficulty , and was probably some time in forcing its way into the interior of the closed cylinder ; and partly to the heat which so great a thickness of metal would retain for a considerable time ; the surface water was from 82 ?
,5 to 830,2 in the course of the afternoon ; the difference of temperature between the surface , and a depth exceeding looo fathoms was , therefore , s30,3 by one thermometer , and 37 ?
, s by the other , the indication of the latter being entitled to the most reliance .
" It may be reasonably inferred , that one or two hundred fathoms more line would have caused the thermometer to have descended into water at its maximum of density , as depends on heat , below which , consequently , no farther diminution of temperature would take place ; this inference being on the presumption that the greatest density of salt water occurs , as is the case in fresh water , at several degrees above its freezing point .
" It is desirable to repeat this experiment , should an opportunity present itself , and to attach several register thermometers , at intervals of the line , to ascertain the progression in which the tempnerature diminishes ; and it would be still more interesting to determine the depth beneath the surface at which water is found , at the term of the diminution of its temperature in different parallels .
" The opportunity which was thus hoped for , did not occur in the remainder of the voyage ; the experiment requires favourable circumstances of weather , and of sea , to both of which the season was adverse .
I am not aware of any previous experiments on the temperature of the deep sea within the tropics , except those of Monsieur PERRON , the imperfection of whose apparatus prevented his obtaining equally decisive results .
Being unprovided with a registering thermometer , he enclosed one of the ordinary construction in several cases filled with nonconducting substances , in order that the temperature which the thermometer had acquired , by being suffered to remain a sufficient time below , might not be disturbed by its being drawn up through the warmer strata .
It appears , however , that in his principal experiment , in which the apparatus was sunk to 2144 feet , the process of raising it lasted three-quarters of an hour , or half the time it had remained below : the difference therefore between the surface and the deep sea water , may be supposed to have been actually greater than would appear in his results ; they are in accord however with the present , in showing even a more rapid decrease of temperature in descending from the surface .
In lat. 5 ?
North , 38 ?
degrees of Fahrenheit less than at the surface at 1200 feet ; and in lat. 4 ?
North , 42 degrees of Fahrenheit less than at the surface at 2144 feet .
The thermometers used in the present Experiment were made expressly for the purpose to which they were applied , and were of the ordinary construction of Six 's registering thermometer : the top of the tube , in which is contained the index of heat , was hermetically sealed instead of being closed by a cork , as is sometimes the case .
I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of their performance in any respect .
I remain , my dear Sir your obliged and faithful Servant , 2 , Portland Place , EDWARD SABINE .
M3arch 18 , i823 .

