I. " On various Phenomena of Refraction through Semi-lenses or Prisms , producing anomalies in the illusion of Stereoscopic Images .
" By A. CLAUDET , Esq. , F.R.S. Received April 22 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) The author having observed that photographic pictures representing flat surfaces , when examined in the refracting stereoscope , have the appearance of concavity , has endeavoured to discover the cause of that phenomenon , and to explain it .
In order to ascertain if this peculiar effect was attributable to some imperfection in the lenses of the camera obscura which had produced the photographic pictures , or to a property of the stereoscope itself , he began to test the stereoscope without photographic images .
For this experiment he placed under each tube of the stereoscope a diagram composed of vertical and horizontal lines crossing each other .
The two diagrams , perfectly identical when seen in the stereoscope , coalesced and formed only one figure ; but although each diagram , when seen separately by its corresponding eye , appeared perfectly flat , still the coalescing image of the two presented a surface conspicuously concave ; consequently there was no doubt that the same illusion observed in photographic pictures was due only to the effect of the stereoscope .
This experiment was decisive , and it remained to discover how the illusion was produced .
The investigations showed that the phenomenon , which is a defect detrimental to the beauty and correctness of the stereoscopic representations and unavoidable in the refracting stereoscope , is a plain illustration of the cause of relief and distance , and yield the clearest explanation of the stereoscopic illusion , -proving that it is founded on the true principles of natural binocular vision .
When we look through a prism placed near the eye at a straight line , the refracting edge of the prism being parallel with the straight line , that line is refracted laterally and appears bent , with its concave side turned to the thin edge of the prism .
The two tubes of the stereoscope being supplied with semi-lenses acting as prisms , each lens bends all vertical straight lines , and the concave sides of these lines are turned towards the thin edges of the lenses , and consequently towards each other .
When we examine in the stereoscope two curved lines having their concave sides turned towards each other , the result of the coalescing of these two lines is a concave line , the extremities appearing nearer and the centre further .
If the convex sides are turned towards each other , the result of the coalescence is a convex line , the extremities appearing further and the centre nearer .
By the same reason , if straight lines are bent by the prismatic refraction of the two semi-lenses , as the bending is effected so that the concave sides are turned towards each other , the result is by coalescence a concave line .
The two photographic images will have all their vertical lines bent in the same manner , and the stereoscope will give the illusion of a picture represented on a concave surface .
When we look at natural objects , the optical axes have to converge more for the nearest than for the furthest , hi order to obtain a single vision by bringing the same object on the centre of each retina ; therefore by habit we judge of the distances by the angle formed by the optical axes required to obtain a single vision .
Again , while we look at one object , while other objects in the same line are situated before and behind that object , we have the sensation of their double images on the two retine .
The double images of nearer objects are situated in the following order : one on the right of the centre of the right retina , and the other on the left of the centre of the left retina ; and the double images of further objects , one on the left of the right retina , and the other on the right of the left retina .
In looking at the two pictures in the stereoscope , we have to converge the optical axes on one point which is beyond the plane of the pictures , so that two of their correspondent or similar points appear respectively on the two lines forming the angle of convergence of the optical axes , and each of these points is represented on the centre of one retina .
As the two corresponding points of the two pictures are laterally nearer each other for the first piane and more distant for the receding plane , it follows that the optical axes have to converge beyond the plane of the pictures on a nearer point for the first , and on a further point for the last .
Therefore , the angle of convergence by which similar points of the two pictures appear on each axis and consequently fall on the cenitre of each retina , conveys the sensation of their respecti-ve distances ; more convergeince indicates less distance , and less convergence more distance .
All the other corresponding points of the two pictures which are not on the optical axes or on similar points of the two retine , form double images ; and when we look at one point , all the points of nearer and further planes appear double in the same order on the two retine , as when we look in like manner at natural objects ; and the situation of double images seen through the stereoscope indicates the distances of the objects they represent , according as one is on the right of the right retina and the other on the left of the left retina , or one on the left of the right retina and the other on the right of the left retina .
This being explained , it is easy to understand what will be the stereoscopic result of vertical lines represented as curved , and having their concavities turned toward each other .
The two correspondent points of the top and bottom of the two concave lines , being nearer each other , will require more convergence than the two correspondent points of the centres of the concave lines , and will appear nearer , whilst the two points of the centre requiring less convergence will appear further ; the intermediate points from the centres to the extremities of the two bent lines will appear gradually less distant , therefore the coalescence of the two lines bent laterally will produce the illusion of a single line conspicuously concave , in a vertical plane at right angles with the plane of the two separate lines .
Having demonstrated that the semi-lenses of the stereoscope , like prisms , bend laterally all the vertical lines of which the photograph pictures are composed , and that these lines in the two pictures present their concavity to each other , it is evident that the coalescence of the two images must give the illusion of a concave image .
The phenomenlon of the lateral curvature given to vertical lines by the refraction of a prism , which vertical lines , when examined with two prisms , one for each eye , appear by coalescence as one line concave in a vertical plane at right angles with the plane of the two separate bent lines , can be curiously illustrated by the following experiment : If , holding in each hand one prism , the two prisms having their thin edges towards each other , we look at the window from the opposite end of the room , we see first two windows with their vertical lines bent in contrary directions ; but by inclining gradually the optical axes , we can converge them .
until the two images coalesce , and we see only one window ; as soon as they coincide , the lateral curvature of the vertical lines ceases , and they are bent projectively from back to front : we have then the illusion of a window concave towards the room , such as it would appear reflected by a concave mirror .
There is another phenomenon which can be noticed when looking at photographic pictures in the stereoscope ; sometimes the picture appears to project out and sometimes to recede from its mountings .
The first effect lessens the illusion , and the second renders it more effectual ; therefore it is desirable to inquire how we can avoid the one and ensure the other .
We know that the distance of objects is in an inverse ratio with the angle of convergence required to see them single ; also that with symmetrical figures or photographic pictures , when the horizontal or lateral distances of the several corresponding points is different , the points less separated will appear nearer , and the more separated will appear further .
Suppose the two correspondent vertical lines of the openings or frames of the pictures be more distant than the two correspondent points of the furthest plane of the pictures themselves , then the openings or frames will appear behind the pictures ; and siuppose the correspondent vertical lines of the openings be less distant than the two correspondent points of the nearest plane of the pictures themselves , then the openings or frames will appear before the picture .
Therefore , when we wish to have the picture appearing behind the openings or their mountings , we have only to take care that the correspondent vertical lines of the mountings should be laterally less distant than the two correspondent points of the first plane of the picture .
This can be easily done by taking the measure of the two correspondent points of the first plane by means of a pair of compasses , and tracing the two pairs of correspondent vertical lines bounding the openings , after having slightly reduced the angle of the compasses .
A very simple experiment may show the cause of the illusion of concavity of fiat surfaces when examined through semi-lenses , and further prove that semi-lenses may give alternately the illusion of concavity and convexity according to the position of their thin edges ; of concavity when their edges are towards each other , and of convexity when they are placed contrariwise .
For this experiment we have only to employ a pair of those spectacles mounted with a spring whereby they are held on the nose .
When we read , holding such spectacles with both hanus , we may by the elasticity of the spring adjust the two lenses so that the pupils of the eyes can coincide , first , with the two nearest edges , secondly , with the two centres , and thirdly , with the two furthest edges of the lenses .
In the first case , the page of the book will appear concave , because the pupils will look through the thin edges of the lenses which bend the vertical lines with their concave sides turned towards each other ; in the second , the page will appear flat , because the pupils will look through the centres of the lenses which show the vertical lines perfectly straight ; and in the third case , the page of the book will appear convex , because the pupils will look through the thin edges of the lenses which bend the vertical lines with their convex sides turned towards each other .
These considerations have led the author to construct a stereoscope which presents flat surfaces perfectly flat .
This new stereoscope has two entire lenses instead of two semi-lenses , and the eyes look through the centre of such lenses .
The images not being laterally refracted , as in the semi-lenticular stereoscope , their coalescence requires a certain effort of divergence , or to squinting outwards , which a little practice will enable us to perform easily .
Persons capable of using this kind of stereoscope will see a picture whose surface is perfectly flat with all the illusion of relief and distance .
All lenses being more or less subject to the defect of bending straight lines when refracted by all the various points of their surface but the centre , and in a greater degree as those points are nearer the edges , it results that when images are produced in the camera obscura by the various points of the whole aperture , they will be bent in various contrary directions , and a certain confusion must arise injurious to the delicacy and correctness of the whole compound image .
This may be proved by the following experiments:-If we take the image of a window by a small aperture placed on the right edge of a lens , say of 3 inches aperture , and another image of the same window , by placing the aperture on the left , taking care to shift the camera so that the two apertures will be exactly on the same line , we shall have two images of the same window apparently identical ; but in placing these two images side by side in the central lensstereoscope above described , first the image of the left side aperture on the right , and that of the right side aperture on the left , secondly the images vice versa , we shall see in the first case a concave window , and in the second a convex window .
But in examining the two images in the semi-lenticular stereoscope , we shall see in one case a concave window , and in the other a perfectly flat window , because in the first case the stereoscope will have increased the bending of the vertical lines of the two images , and in the second the stereoscope will have corrected the bending .
This fact naturally suggests the possibility of correcting the defect of the refracting stereoscope ; for if the images of the camera were taken by semi-lenses , the bend resulting from this mode of operating might be corrected by the bend of the stereoscope , care being taken to turn the thin edge of the semi-lenses of the two cameras in the direction which will produce a bending contrary to that of the semilenses of the stereoscope .
Having shown how the lateral proportional distances of any two correspondent points of the two stereoscopic pictures are the indices of their perspective distances , if we were , while looking in the stereoscope , to produce a change in those proportional lateral distances by sliding horizontally in a contrary direction , two pairs of superposed glass photographic pictures , the objects would appear to move , not in the horizontal lateral direction of that change which they naturally have , but in a straight line forward and backward , as if the object was approaching or receding .
But the most curious effect of that motion would be , that the objects would appear increasing in size while they were receding , and diminishing while approaching , which we know is contrary to the rule of perspective .
This is another illusion entirely physiological , and the cause of which may be thus explained ; while the object appears moving forward and backward it remains always the same size , but as we expect when it moves forward that it should increase in size , and when it moves backward that it should decrease , and as it does not , we feel that it is diminishing when approaching and increasing when receding .

