150 Mr. E. H. Acton , llie Assimilation of Carbon " The Assimilation of Carbon by Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
" By E. Hamilton Acton , M.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , C.M.G. , F.R.S. Received April 20\#151 ; Read May 16 , 1889 .
The recent synthesis of a true glucose ( " acrose " ) by Fischer and Tafel , * from acrolein ( acrylic aldehyde ) and also from glycerin , + in conjunction with the additions to our knowledge of the constitution of dextrose and lsevulose by Kiliani , J \amp ; c. , suggests fresh attention to the " aldehyde theory " regarding the synthetical formation of carbohydrate in green plants .
It is now widely believed by vegetable physiologists that a glucose is produced in the first instance from C03 and H20 , but the nature of the intermediate changes is still uncertain .
The experiments described in this paper were commenced to ascertain whether starch can be produced in the assimilating cells of a green plant by supplying it with acrolein or closely related bodies , and subsequently extended to other organic compounds related to carbohydrates .
The well-known theoryS that formic aldehyde ( HCOH ) is first produced from C02 and H20 , and then becomes polymerised to glucose , has not yet received any direct experimental proof , although it is stated byReinke|t that formic aldehyde has been detected in the product obtained by distilling the leaves of several plants with water .
The artificial polymerisation of formic aldehyde appears to yield a complex mixture of aldehyde and ketone alcohols , which has been variously described as methylenitan , formose , pseudo-formose , \amp ; c. Quite recently Fischer^[ and Loew** have independently stated that a small quantity of a true glucose can be proved to occur in " formose " by the phenylhydrazine reaction.ft According to Loew this polymerisation only occurs with dilute solutions of the aldehyde , and better with PbO or Pb(OH)2 than Ca(OH)2 .
Loew supports the view that formic aldehyde is formed as an * ' Berichte der Deutscli .
Cliem .
Gt-esell .
, ' 1888 , pp. 1088 , 2566 .
+ Ibid. , p. 3384 .
X Ibid. , p. 221 .
S Compare Vines , ' Physiology of Plants , ' Lecture 9 , Cambridge , 1886 .
|j ' Berichte der Deutsch .
Chem. Gesoll .
, ' 1881 , p. 2144 .
% Ibid. , 1889 , p. 359 .
** Ibid. , 1889 , p. 470 .
ft Por an account of the views as to nature of formose , pseudoformose , methvl-enitan , \amp ; c. , generally held before the publication of Fischer and Loew 's papers referred to above , see Tollens , * Handbuch der Kohlenhydrate Sec. IV , 250\#151 ; 252 , \amp ; c. Breslau , 1888 .
hi/ Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
151 intermediate product in the synthesis of carbohydrate by green plants from C02 and H20 , but that it becomes immediately polymerised at the moment of formation ; he does not , however , adduce any new physiological experiments .
Wehmer* has shown that assimilating plant cells do not form starch from solutions of formic aldehyde or formose , and A. Meyer that this is also true for solutions of aldehyde ( acetic ) and trioxy-methylene .
A. Meyer 's paper ( ' Botan. Zeitung , ' 1886 , pp. 81 , 105 , 129 , 145 ) is frequently referred to throughout the following pages .
It is well knownf that starch is formed by the leaves of green plants when they are supplied with solutions of glucose or cane-sugar ( saccharon ) : but very few experiments have been made to ascertain how far this is true for other organic compounds .
A. Meyer has extended such investigations to the behaviour of leaves placed in solutions of other carbohydrates and a few other compounds ; his researches are frequently referred to throughout the following pages .
He found that starch is formed by leaves placed in solutions of glucose , saccharon , mannite , inulin , and glycerin .
Meyer 's method consisted in placing leaves which had been deprived of starch in the dark in solutions of the substances .
I have extended the investigation to other substances\#151 ; especially aldehydes and substances related chemically to carbohydrates , uping different methods and devoting especial attention to the formation or not of starch in the leaves of green plants when organic substances are supplied through the medium of their roots and not directly to the leaves .
E. Laurentij ; has confirmed .
Meyer 's observation that starch is formed from glycerin .
Wehmer 's negative results with formic aldehyde and formose have been already alluded to .
Meyer ( Zoo .
cit. ) has shown that starch is not formed by leaves from solutions of raffinose , inosite , erythrite , dulcite , S trioxy-methylene , aldehyde ( acetic ) .
Neither Meyer , Laurent , nor Wehmer describes any experiments with reference to the supply of the substances used to the roots of plants .
In the following pages where the compounds used have also been employed by Meyer , as described above , his results are stated in giving details of experiments , but I did not generally make observa* ' Berichte der Doutsch .
Cliem .
G-esell .
, ' 1887 , p. 2014 .
f Meyer 's paper gives full references to previous experiments on this point .
+ ' Botan. Zeitung , ' 1886 , p. 751 .
S Full information concerning the relation of these bodies te the glucoses is given by Tollens ( ' Kandbuch dcr Kohlenhydrate ' ) .
152 Mr. E. H. Acton .
The Assimilation of Carbon tions on shoots ( vide groups A and C in detailed account ) where Meyer has obtained positive results .
I am indebted to Professor S. H. Vines for the suggestion to experiment with an " extiact of natural humus " ( see No. 12 , p. 172 ) .
Methods and Apparatus Employed .
The experiments with each of the substances employed are classified as follows:\#151 ; A. Experiments with cut branches .
B. Experiments with solutions supplied to the roots of plants placed in a culture liquid , or in a few cases in sand moistened with the same .
C. Experiments where the solutions were applied externally by placing on the upper surfaces of leaves .
All the investigations were made as far as possible with plants , shoots , leaves , \amp ; e. , in a healthy condition , and results are not stated in any cases where there was reason to believe that the plants , \amp ; c. , had been injured by preliminary manipulations or exceptionally unfavourable conditions during the progress of the trials .
As is generally the case in experiments with culture solutions , algae , fungi , \amp ; c. , often developed in the solutions , although the cylinders were surrounded with black paper and the liquids had been previously boiled ; where this occurred to any considerable extent the cultures were repeated with fresh plants .
In a few cases the roots of the plants were placed in damp sand and the sand moistened with the substances in use .
The sand had been strongly heated in a muffle just before using .
The words " sand culture , " placed against some of the results in the detailed account , signify that this method had been used instead of the ordinary water culture .
To deprive the leaves and tissues of starch at the beginning of the experiments , two methods were resorted to :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Placing in the dark until portions of the leaves were shown by testing to be completely free from starch .
( 2 .
) Placing under a bell-jar with substances which entirely remove all C03 from the air until the same result was obtained .
Of these methods the latter was found to be the more convenient and used in nearly all cases .
In the case of seedling plants the cotyledons must obviously be removed before placing under the bell-jar ; but this operation need not cause any injury to the plant if carefully performed and the young plant has formed sufficient ordinary foliage leaves to be independent of the cotyledons .
The apparatus used was as described on p. 154 , and is represented in section by diagram No. 1 on the opposite page .
In this apparatus the branches , shoots , \amp ; c. , freshly cut off under by Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
153 Diagram No. 1 .
Soda Lome Soda Lomewater were placed in a cylinder containing the culture solution and the seedling plants either in the same or in a cylinder containing damp sand moistened with the culture solution .
When it had been found by testing portions of the tissues that the plants , \amp ; c. , were entirely free from starch , they were at once transferred to fresh cylinders containing the different solutions and placed under other bell-jars similarly fitted .
The apparatus shown in diagram No. 1 and described on the next page was always used in the first instance , but where positive results 154 Mr. E. H. Acton .
The Assimilation of Carhon were obtained the trials were repeated , using the modified cylinder described below and figured on p. 155 ( diagram No. 2 ) .
In testing the tissues for starch Sachs ' well-known method was used ; in cases where the results were negative the " potash method " recommended for small quantities of the substance was employed .
I generally also made a micro-chemical examination of portions of the tissues in addition to the direct tests .
The bell-jar ( see diagram No. 1 ) is accurately ground to fit the glass plate , the surfaces in contact are covered with a mixture of vaseline , resin , and beeswax , which is extremely tenacious , and entirely prevents any access of air in this direction.* The india-rubber stopper is perforated with two holes , through which glass tubes are inserted connected with soda-lime -tubes ; this arrangement allows a free circulation between air in the bell-jar and external atmosphere , but entirely deprives any air entering the apparatus of C02 .
Any C02 derived from respiration of the plants is at once absorbed by the KOH or soda-lime , so that the air in the bell-jar is entirely destitute of C02 during the whole course of experiment .
Two vessels of water ( not shown in diagram No. 1 ) are also placed under the bell-jar to prevent any chance of the air being rendered too dry by the soda-lime .
The water in these vessels is deprived of any C02 which it may contain in solution by the addition of baryta-water ( Ba(OH)2 ) .
Since the experiments showing a positive result are open to the possible objection that C02 might be evolved by decomposition in the solution , and be absorbed by the leaves before it was taken up by the soda-lime or potash , I repeated these with the modified apparatus shown on the opposite page ( diagram No. 2 ) .
In this case any C02 evolved from decompositions in the culture solution could not find its way to the leaves ; but , at the same time , a free circulation of air is allowed between the space at top of the cylinder and that in the bell-jar .
Except for this modification in the cylinder containing the culture solution , the apparatus is the same as described above ; instead of the plant stem being simply passed through a hole in cork of cylinder , the insertion is made gas-tight , as * Sachs , G-odlewski , \amp ; c. , in similar experiments close the bottom of the bell-jar by placing it in a dish containing strong KOH solution , through which they introduce tubes ( curved ) to allow a free circulation of air , \amp ; c. The arrangement described in the text is equally efficacious and more convenient to employ , as the cylinder , dishes , \amp ; c. , stand on a glass plate instead of in KOH solution .
In the first experiment with each apparatus used , a portion of the air was withdrawn from the bell-jar , collected over mercury , and tested for COs by the ordinary methods of gas analysis at various intervals ; in all cases the air in the apparatus was found to be completely free from C02 .
by Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
155 Diagram No. 2 .
shown in diagram , by a glass tube\#151 ; fitting into the cork\#151 ; having a piece of india-rubber tubing slipped over its end and a portion of the stem , fastened with fine copper binding wire in each case .
Communication between the air in cylinder and that of bell-jar is provided by means of the side tubes , although these prevent the exit of any C02 from the cylinder .
Method for Experiments with Anacharis alsinastrum and Water Plants Pieces of the plant , about 8\#151 ; 15 cms .
long , were placed in distilled water which had been deprived of any dissolved C02 by the addition # In experiments with cut branches of plants I consider that the conditions are more nearly normal with water than land plants , but owing to the difficulty of beeping a supply of water plants under the requisite conditions , I have not made any very extensive use of them in these experiments .
156 Mr. E. H. Acton .
The Assimilation of Carbon of barium acetate solution , sufficient excess of the latter being present to withdraw from the water any C02 obtained from respiration .
The jars containing water and plants were exposed in a window receiving some direct sunlight\#151 ; for two days , at the end of which period leaves tested as described were found to contain no traces of starch .
The plants were then rapidly transferred to other jars containing the same solutions as used in the previous experiments ( see next page ) , with the addition of sufficient barium acetate to leave an excess of the salt for withdrawal of any C02 formed during the experiment , but in no case did the amount of soluble barium salts at the beginning of the experiment exceed 2'5 per cent , barium ( 4'2 per cent. BaS04 on precipitation ) .
The jars in this and the previous experiment were closed by tightly fitting india-rubber corks perforated with two holes through which are inserted glass tubes connected with soda-lime ( J-tubes , to allow a free circulation of air in the space above the water , but to deprive any air so entering the apparatus of all traces of C02 ( diagram No. 3 ) .
Diaqbam No. 3 .
by Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
157 The plants used for these experiments were\#151 ; Shoots ( cut branches ) of\#151 ; Acer pseudoplatanus , L. ; Phaseolus L. ; Ranunculus acris , L. ; OheiranthusCheiri , L. ; Tilia E L. ; L. ; Scrophularia aquatica , L. Seedling plants ( entire ) of\#151 ; Acer pseudoplatanus , L. ; Phassolus , L. ; Pin .
multi for us , L. ; Cheiranthus Cheiri , L. ; Querents robur , L. ; Campanula L. ; Euphorbia helioscopia , L. ; Epilobium L. Water plants.\#151 ; Shoots of\#151 ; Anacharis alsinastrum , Bab .
; Callitriche aquatica , Sm .
; Fontinalis antipyretica , L. ; Chara vulgaris , L. ; Spargankim natans , Bab .
The plants made use of in these experiments were not selected for any particular reason beyond the fact that I had an abundant supply of them at hand in the ground behind St. John 's College Laboratory , where all these experiments were conducted .
The seedling plants of TiliaAcer , Campanula , Euphorbia were all obtained from the place mentioned .
Those of Quercuswere brought from a neighbouring field , and planted in the garden in front of the laboratory .
The young plants of Phaseolus and P. vulgaris were raised from seed in damp sawdust , and planted out till required for use .
The other plants were growing in the garden and immediate vicinity .
As I did not in any cases find the results differing with the plants used where I considered the experiments had been satisfactorily carried out , I selected those which seemed best adapted to the apparatus in each case .
The solution used for the culture of the plants , and referred to throughout as the " culture solution , " was prepared so as to contain the weights given below in 100 c.c. of the liquid .
Potassium nitrate ( KN03 ) ... ... ... ... 0*15 grams .
Magnesium chloride ( MgCl2 ) ... ... ... .
0T0 , , Calcium phosphate ( Ca3(P04)2)_______ 0*05 " Ferrous sulphate ( FeS04 ) ... ... ... ... 0*025 " Calcium sulphate ( CaS04 ) ... ... ... ... 0*05 " Water ( distilled ) ... ... ... ... ... ... .
100 " In the ease of the water plants there was added to the above 3\#151 ; 4 per cent , of barium acetate ( to remove C02 ) , as mentioned in describing the apparatus for water plants , which would cause some alterations in the soluble salts .
Such a solution contains all the elements necessary for normal growth of a plant except carbon .
158 Mr. E. H. Acton .
The Assimilation of Carbon No. 1.\#151 ; Experiments with Acrolein .
The acrolein was prepared by the usual method , * viz. , distillation of glycerin and acid potassium sulphate , the distillate being in the first instance collected in a receiver over PbO and CaCl2 to remove acrylic acid and water .
The product was three times " rectified " over CaCl3 , and preserved in a sealed tube over a few 'fragments of CaCl2 till required for use .
The " acrolein-ammonia " was prepared by Claus 's method , f viz. , acrolein vapour was passed into strong aqueous ammonia , the excess of ammonia driven off by warming , and the reddish solid acrolein-ammonia precipitated by addition of excess of ether alcohol .
The solid was dissolved in water immediately before use .
Acrolein-ammonia is a condensation product having the formula C6H9NO .
( 2C3H40+NH3 1= C6H9N0+H20 .
) The crystals of acid sodium sulphite compound , of which the crystals are somewhat insoluble , can be easily prepared in the ordinary way for these compounds .
Composition , 2NaHS03'C3H40 .
Owing to the fact that acrolein is very liable to undergo spontaneous decomposition on standing in contact with water , and the extremely offensive nature of the substance in a free state , I employed certain soluble acrolein compounds , as well as the uncombined aldehyde ; but , although these compounds did not act so prejudicially on the plants , they caused them to assume an unhealthy appearance after 4\#151 ; 5 days , and two out of six plants which had been grown in the solutions under the conditions described on p. 160 failed to recover when again planted under normal circumstances , although fully supplied with water and shaded from intense direct sunlight .
Details of these experiments are given on the following pages .
I think they prove conclusively that plants are unable to form starch in their leaves from acrolein or its compounds when supplied to them as such , and that it is therefore doubtful whether the synthesis of glucose by Fischer and Tafel from acrolein has apy direct bearing on the formation of starch in plants .
The results with ordinary aldehyde ( acetaldehyde ) and some of its compounds were also negative ( see pp , 163\#151 ; 164 ) , although these did not seem to have any injurious effect on the plants .
In 1 per cent , solution no formation of starch could be detected , whether the substance was supplied to the roots , cut branches , or the external surface of the leaves .
No. 1.\#151 ; Experiments with Acrolein .
I. With free aldehyde\#151 ; * See F. Beilstein , ' Handbueh der organischen Chemie , ' 2nd Edit .
, p. 360 .
f ' Liebig 's Annalen , ' vol. 130 , 1864 , p. 185 .
hy Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
159 A. On Cat Brandies .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
The culture solution 4- 0*2 per cent , acrolein Acer pseudoplatanus Phaseolus vulgaris Ranunculus acris Cheiranthus Cheiri No formation of starch ( 5 days ) .
The leaves became unhealthy .
B. Solution applied to the Roots .
Same solution Acer pseudoplatanus ( 3 plants ) Phaseolus vulgaris ( 4 plants ) No formation of starch .
( 6 days ) .
The plants were evidently injured by this solution , presenting a yellowish appearance at the end of six days ; one of the plants of Acer and three of the Phaseolus failed to recover their normal growth .when planted out , and ultimately died .
C. Solution applied to Surface of Leaf .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
Same solution Tilia Europcea ( 3 leaves ) Phaseolus vulgaris ( 5 leaves ) No formation of starch ( 5 days ) .
Leaves became yellow when the solution had been applied .
No. 1.\#151 ; Experiments with Acrolein ( continued ) .
II .
Acrolein compounds\#151 ; ( a. ) " Acrolein Ammonia .
" A. On Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
The culture solution + '5\#151 ; 1 per cent , acrolein-ammonia Alisma plant ago Tilia Eu 'opcea Acer pseudoplatanus Scrophularia aquatica No formation of starch ( 4 days ) .
Leaves not visibly injured .
B. Solution supplied to Roots .
Same solution as above ( A ) Cheiranthus Cheiri Quercus robur Campanula glomer at a ( 2 plants ) No formation of starch ( 6 days ) .
Mr. E. H. Acton .
The Assimilation of Carbon The plants were not apparently injured by this solution ; on planting out they all resumed growth ; the plants of had formed starch again after ten days ( not tested earlier ) after planting out .
C. Solution applied to Surface of Leaf .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
Same solution as above Acer pseudoplatanus TiLia Furopcea No formation of starch .
No. 1.\#151 ; Experiments with , Acrolein ( continued ) .
II .
Acrolein compounds\#151 ; ( 6 .
) NaHS03 compound of Acrolein .
A. .
On Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
The culture solution Thaseolus vulgaris Became unhealthy on 2nd + about 2 per cent. Ranunculus acris day and were withered of the crystal .
Tilia Fur op at a at end of 4 days .
No NaHS03 comp .
starch .
Same solution above B. Solution supplied to Roots .
as FJiaseolus multijlor Tilia Europaia ( 2 plants ) Cheiranthus Cheiri ( 2 plants ) All killed at end of 5 days ; shower !
marked inj ury after 48 hours .
No starch .
No. 1.\#151 ; Experiments with Acrolein ( continued ) .
Experiments with Water Plants .
Method and apparatus as described on pp. 155\#151 ; 156 .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
The culture solution diluted with an equal vol. of distilled water + 0*25 per cent , acrolein Anacharis alsinasirum Fontinalis antipyretica Chara vulgaris No starch formed .
Chlorophyll markedly injured after 24 hours .
No bubbles of gas evolved in bright sunlight after the first 24 hours .
Three plants of Anacharis from different sources were used .
Two " Chara " " " by Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
161 No. 2.\#151 ; Experiments with Allyl Alcohol ( C3H60 ) { CHg'CH'CHoOH ) .
The allyl alcohol was prepared in the usual manner by distilling a mixture of glycerin and crystallised oxalic acid with a little ammonium chloride , and rectifying the crude distillate from potassium carbonate , solid potash , and finally from lime .
The substance used was collected in a separate receiver ( 93\#151 ; 95 ' C. ) .
A. On Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plant .
Results .
The culture solution + 0*5 per cent , allyl alcohol Tilia Europcea Cheiranthus Cheiri Ranunculus acris No starch formed .
Leaves became yellow and flaccid after 6 days .
B. Solution supplied to Boots .
Same solution as above Acer pseudoplatanus ( 3 plants ) Phaseolus vulgaris ( 2 plants ) ( Sand culture ) .
Quercus robur ( 2 plants ) No starch formed in leaves ( 6 days ) .
Plants were decidedly injured .
On planting out after the experiment , two plants of Acer , both of Phaseolus , and one of Quercusfailed to resume growth , and ultimately ( 3 weeks ) died .
2.\#151 ; Allyl Alcohol ( continued ) .
Experiments with Water Plants .
Method and apparatus described on pp. 155\#151 ; 156 .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
A. The culture solution diluted with an equal volume of distilled water + 0*5 per cent , allyl alcohol Anacharis alsinastrum Char a vulgaris Plants injured after 12 hours , and yellow or brown after 48 hours .
No starch .
B. The culture solution diluted with twice its volume of distilled water + OT per cent , allyl alcohol .
Callitriche aquatica No starch formed ( 7 days ) .
Plant not injured to outward appearance .
102 Mr. E. H. Acton .
The Assimilation of Carbon Not tested whether plant formed starch again under normal conditions after experiment , as specimens used were accidentally mislaid in laboratory .
No. 3.\#151 ; Experiments with Glucose .
Commercial " pure glucose , " obtained from Messrs. Hopkin and Williams , of London , was used .
A. It is well known* that cut branches of plants , leaves , \amp ; c. , form starch when supplied with solutions of glucose .
I did not repeat these experiments .
B. Solutions supplied to the Boots .
( 1 .
) Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
The culture solution + 1 per cent , of glucose Quercus robur Cheiranthus Cheiri Euphorbia helioscopia Phaseolus vulgaris Acer pseudoplatanus All contained starch at the end of 4 days .
( 2.1 Finding that starch was formed under these circumstances , I commenced a new series of experiments , in order to observe whether the plants were able to withdraw the whole of the glucose from solutions , and how long a time was required for the first formation of starch .
As the young plants of Gheiranthus were growing most vigorously at this time , I used them for this purpose .
The first point was easily answered in the affirmative .
Using the previously mentioned culture solution ( containing 1 per cent , of glucose ) , such an amount was taken as to contain 3'57 grams of glucose ( about 400 c.c. ) ; six plants of Gheiranthus Cheiri , with their roots immersed in the solution , had completely absorbed all the glucose at the end of five or six days .
In another similar experiment , I found that three plants of Acer pseudoplatanus absorbed 1'86 gram of glucose in eight days , but a fungus mycelium was beginning to form at the end of this time , which may have assisted in removing the glucose .
It was proved that all the glucose had disappeared from the solutions by the usual methods of testing , viz. , with Fehling 's solution , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. In regard to the second point , I never found any formation of starch to occur with less than ten hours ' exposure to light ; but it is obvious that experiments of this kind are of very little value , as it is not possible to determine to what extent the previous treatment to deprive tissues of starch has affected the normal assimilation processes .
* See Introduction .
by Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
163 As would be expected , those plants which had been deprived of starch by keeping in the dark were considerably longer showing starch formation in their leaves than those which had been brought into a similar condition under the bell-jars by the absence of carbon supply ( C03 ) , although plants as nearly as possible of the same age and size were oiuginally selected , and in each case used for the cultures as soon as they were found to be completely free from starch .
A few of the most nearly comparable results as to the time required are given below .
Plants in Culture Solution + 1 per cent. Glucose .
Plant .
Starch first detected in leaves after the lapse of Cheiranthus Cheiri ( deprived of starch by absence of C02 ) , 5 plants , A , B , C Cheiranthus Cheiri ( deprived of starch by placing in dark ) , 2 plants , C " , D Note.\#151 ; About 7 hours in dark be-* tween 1st and 2nd day .
( A ) 13 hours ( continuous ) " ' ( B ) 11 " ( C ) 13 , , " from time i of placing ( C ) 13 hours 1st day ; 8 ^ in culture hours 2nd day solution .
( D ) 13 hours 1st day ; 10 hours 2nd day Ho. 4 .
Experiments with Aldehyde ( Acetic ) .
The aldehyde was purified in the usual way by saturating an ethereal solution of commercial aldehyde with gaseous ammonia collecting the crystals , and distillation with dilute H2S04 .
The aldehyde ammonia used was a portion of that obtained in above ; the crystals would be pure .
A. On Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
Culture solution + 0*75 per cent , aldehyde Culture solution + 0*1 per cent , aldehyde ( sand culture ) Ranunculus acris Acer pseudoplatanus Scrophularia aquatica Alisma plantago B. Solution supplied to R\lt ; Rhaseolus vulgaris Rhaseolus multijlorus Euphorbia helioscopia Cheiranthus Cheiri ( 3 plants ) No starch formed ( 5 days ) ; leaves unhealthy towards end of experiments .
:\gt ; ots .
No starch formed ( 6 days ) .
N YOL .
XLV1I .
16i Mr. E. H. Acton .
The Assimilation of Carbon On planting out at the end of experiment the plants of Phaseolns vulgaris and P. multiflorus , with two of the plants of Cheiranthus Chevri , died , * but the others , although evidently injured , did not die within three weeks .
With " A Idehy de-amm"f A. On Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plants .
r Results .
Culture solution + 1 per cent , aldehyde-ammonia Alisma jplantago Ranunculus acris Tilia Rurogcea Lilium candidum No formation of starch ( 4 days ) .
Same solution as above B. Supplied to Roots .
Acer pseudojplqtanus ( 3 plants ) Fhaseolus vulgaris ( 2 plants ) Cheiranthus Qheiri ( 4 plants ) No formation of starch ( 8 days ) .
All plants resumed growth on being planted out .
No. 5 .
Experiments with Glycerin .
Commercial " pure glycerin " was used .
A. Since A. Meyer* has shown that leaves supplied with glycerin do form starch , and E. LaurentS has confirmed this observation , I did not repeat these experiments .
* * * S * Since the free aldehyde is a very volatile substance , giving off vapour at ordinary temperatures , it must be considered doubtful whether the injurious effect of the substance in the above experiment is to be attributed to action on the roots in solution , or to action of the vapour on the leaves .
A few drops of pure aldehyde allowed to evaporate under a receiver containing a plant of Acer pseudoplatanus quickly ( 24 hours ) caused the death of the latter , as would be expected .
t The compound aldehyde-ammonia , =* CH3COH*NH3 , is probably amidethylic alcohol , CH3CH NH2-OH .
The tendency of this body to undergo condensation changes with formation of basic nitrogen compounds is well known .
( See W atts Diet , of Chem. , ' vol. 1 , London , 1888 ; " Aldines and Aldehydines .
" ) t 4 Botan. Zeitung , ' 1886 .
S Laurent , in ' Botan. Zeitung , ' 1886 , p. 151 .
jnj Grecn Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
B. Supplied to the Roots .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
The culture solution + O'5 per cent , glycerin Phaseolus vulgaris Acer pseudoplatanus Quercus robur Campanula glomerata All formed starch after 5 days .
In a second series of experiments with the same solution as above I found that\#151 ; Cheiranthus \#151 ; .
A. 2 plants ... ... B. 1 plant ... ... .
C. 3 plants ... ... Acer pseudoplatanus\#151 ; A. 1 plant ... ... .
B. 3 plants ... ..* Had formed starch after 48 hours " 56 " \#187 ; 60 , , " 68 " n ?
4 \gt ; \gt ; I From time [ of placing )\gt ; in the culture solution .
For experiments with Acer pseudoplatanus , L. in solutions with varying amounts of glycerin , I found that no starch was formed when the solution was stronger than 10 per cent , glycerin , * and solutions ^5___20 per cent , glycerin decidedly injured the plant in twelve houis , and ultimately caused its death .
The same results are obtained with other plants , robur and Euphorbia helioscopia , as with Acer pseudoplatanus , L. Ho. 6 .
Experiments with Lcevidinic Acid .
The acid was prepared from the la3vulose obtained by Kiliani sf process from commercial inulin .
The lsevulose is boiled with dilute sulphuric acid , and the zinc salt of lsevulinic acid obtained from the product by the process recommended by Grote and Tollens.ij : The ethyl ethereal salt was then obtained by decomposing the alcoholic solution of zinc salt with H2S , filtering off the ZnS , boiling to expel H2S , saturating with HC1 , and distilling in the usual way .
* As A. Meyer states that leaves form starch when placed in 10 per cent , solu-1 ions of glycerin , it must be assumed that the root tissues are affected in these experiments , or that such strong solutions are unable to travel from the root to leaves .
f See Kiliani in ' Liebig 's Annalen , ' vol. 205 , 1880 ; and also in ' Berichte Deutsch .
Chem. G-esell .
, ' 1880 , p^ 2426 .
X ' Liebig 's Annalen , ' vol. 175 , 1875 , and vol. 206 , 1881 .
Mr. E. H. Acton .
The A ssimilation of Carbon The ethyl ethereal salt was saponified , and the barium salt obtained .
From the barium salt the pure acid was obtained by decomposing with dilute H2S04.* The calcium salt used in No. 6 , II , A. and B. was obtained by neutralising a portion of the pure free acid with Ca(OH)2 .
Experiments with " Lsevulinic Acid .
" A. With Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
The culture solution jRanunculus acris 1Vo starch formed ( 5 + 1 per cent , lae- Alisma 'plantago days ) ; not apparently injured .
vulinic acid ScropJiularia aquatica B. Solution supplied to the Roots .
Same solution as Phaseolus vulgaris No starch formed ( 8 above CheirantJius CJieiri Quercus robur ( 3 plants ) days ) .
Plants all recovered normal growth on planting out , and had formed starch after 3 to 4 days .
n C. Solution placed on Leaves .
Same solution as Acer pseudoplatanus ( with No starch formed ( 5 above roots in culture solution ) , 2 plants days ) .
Leaves not apparently injured where solution had been applied .
* Lsevulinic acid obtained as described from laevulose or cane-sugar has been shown by Conrad ( ' Liebig 's Anrtalen , ' vol. 188,1877 ) to be identical with ^-acetyl-propionic acid facetvl-propionic acid = CH3\#151 ; CO I CH2 i ch2 I COOH ) obtained by the action of baryta-water on diethyl acetosuccinate .
Lsevulinic acid is therefore one of the " ketonic acids , " which have been so largely used in recent chemical synthesis , and the non-formation of starch by the plants from this source I regard as particularly interesting .
It was my intention at the beginning of these experiments to try the calcium or magnesium salts of " aceto-acetic " acid and " acetyl-phenyl-propionic acid , " as also some of the substituted " malonic ethers " of the form R , E/ .C.(CO .
C2H5)2 ( R.R .
= alcohol radicles ) , all of which are powerful reagents in organic synthesis , but , finding the results negative with lsevulinic acid , I conclude that they would probably not be different with the above-mentioned bodies .
by Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
1(57 The Calcium Salt of Lsevulinic acid .
A. On Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plants .
Eesults .
The culture solution + 1 per cent , calcium lsevulinate Ranunculus acris Scrophularia aquatica Alisma plantago No starch formed ( 10 days ) .
B. Solution supplied to the Roots .
Same solution as above Cheiranthus Cheiri Quercus robur Acer pseudoplatanus No starch formed in the leaves ( 8 days ) .
Plants apparently uninjured , resumed growth , and had formed starch again ( Acer ) after 10 days from planting out .
No. 7 .
Experiments with Saccharon ( Cane-sugar ) .
The saccharon used was pure cane-sugar obtained from Kahlbaum , of Berlin ; it gave no reduction on heating with Fehling 's solution at 100 ' for ten minutes .
Many specimens of ordinary cane-sugar contain a considerable amount of glucose , and are obviously unsuitable for such investigations .
A. As A. Meyer and B. Laurent* have shown that starch is formed by leaves , cut branches , \amp ; c. , placed in the solutions of cane-sugar , I did not repeat these experiments .
B. Solution supplied to the Roots .
Solution used .
Plants .
Eesults .
Culture solution 4* 0 *5 per cent , saccharon Acer pseudoplatanus Cheiranthus Cheiri ( 3 plants ) Phaseolus vulgaris ( 2 plants ) Euphorbia helioscopia Starch was formed at end of 4 days in all the leaves .
Wishing to determine whether saccharon is as readily absorbed by the roots ot plants as glucose ( compare No. 3 , p. 162 ) , I selected six young plants of Cheiranthus Cheiri , as nearly as possible of equal size , so that three of them were about the same weight as the other three ( a = three plants , B = three nearly similar plants ; B weighed 0 01 gram more than a ) ; ( a ) were placed in a cylinder containing 100 c.c. of the culture solution + 0'5 glucose ; B in a similar # hoc .
cit. 1(38 Mr. E. H. Acton .
rllie Assimilation Carbon cylinder containing 100 c.c. of the culture solution + 0'5 gram saccharon .
The two cylinders were placed under the same bell-jar and arranged so as to be as nearly as possible illuminated to the same extent .
After three days ( the leaves of ( a)and ( B ) then containing starch ) I determined the remaining glucose and saccharon in the cylinders by making up to an equal volume in each case and withdrawing an aliquot part for analysis .
Of the glucose 0'237 gram remained ( absorbed 0'263 gram ) .
Of the saccharon 0'302 gram remained ( absorbed 0'198 gram ) .
This experiment was confirmed by arranging another six plants in a similar manner and testing each day how much of the glucose and saccharon had been removed during the preceding twenty-four hours .
Commencing on the second day after placing the cylinders in the bell-jar , it was found at the beginning of the third day that\#151 ; ( 2nd to 3rd day ) , in 24 hours , 0'085 gram glucose , 0'061 gram saccharon .
( 3rd to 4th day ) , in 24 hours , 0'074 gram glucose , 0'062 gram saccharon .
I therefore conclude that glucose is more readily taken up by the roots of plants ( from 5 per cent , solutions ) than saccharon.* No. 8 .
Experiments with " .
" The dextrins used were of two kinds:\#151 ; 1 .
Erythro-dextrin ; 2 .
Achroo-dextrin .
Erythro-dextrin used was obtained as " dextrin " in dry state from Messrs. Hopkin and Williams , of London .
It was well washed with strong alcohol before solution in water , to remove any traces of glucose .
The achroo-dextrin was prepared from the above by heating with 5 per cent. H2S04 on a " calcium chloride bath " ( temperature above 100 ' ) till the solution , neutralised with BaC03 , .
gave no trace of reaction with I in KI .
The dextrin was then precipitated by the addition of strong ( 95 per cent. ) alcohol and washed with the same until the washings were perfectly free from " reducing " substances , dried , and dissolved in water .
* This result is not in keeping with the experiences of A. Meyer as to the relative value of glucose and saccharon .
When leaves are placed in 10 per cent , solutions he finds starch to he more readily formed from saccharon than dextrose ( glucose ) .
I have not experimented with " lsevulose .
" by Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
160 1 .
Erythro-dextrin .
A. With Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
The culture solution + 1 p. c. erythro-dextrin Acer pseudoplatanus Tilia Huropcea JPhaseolus multiflorus No starch formed in the leaves ( 5 days ) .
Same as above 1 , T ~ , \gt ; no starch .
Same as above J 2 .
Achroo-dextrin .
A. With Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
The culture solution + 1*5 p. c. achroo-dextrin Same plants as above ( Erythro-dextrin ) No starch formed ( 5 days ) .
Same as 2A above . .
( Sand culture ) ... . .
B. Supplied to Roots .
Npilobium hirsutum Tilia JEuropcea Cheiranthus Cheiri No starch formed in the leaves ( 5 days ) .
No starch formed in leaves ( 5 days ) .
All plants resumed growth and formed starch again when planted out .
No. 9 .
Experiments with Commercial inulin , obtained from Messrs. Hopkin and Williams , of London , was used .
It was thoroughly washed with strong alcohol ( to remove any glucoses ) and dried in vacuo before solution in water .
The solutions were used immediately after preparation.* A. A. Meyerf has shown that leaves do form starch from solutions of inulin .
I did not repeat this experiment .
* This experiment with inulin I regard as inconclusive , because it is not probable that the substance used was pure .
Solutions of inulin on standing for any length of time I have always found to contain lsevulose , from which the starch detected might have been produced .
Kiliani ( ' Liebig 's Annalen , ' vol. 205,1880 ) has pointed out the very great difficulty of obtaining pure inulin ( compare also J. R. Green , ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 1 , No. III ) , t Loc .
cit. 170 Mr. E. H. Acton .
Assimilation of Carbon B. Solution supplied to the Roots .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
The culture solution + 1 per cent , inu-lin Acer pseudoplatanus Cheiranthus Cheiri Starch was formed in the leaves at the end of 5 days ( not tested earlier ) .
Ho. 10 .
Experiments with " Soluble .
" The starch solution was prepared by pouring starch ( wheat-starch ) rubbed into a thin paste with water ( cold ) into an excess of boiling water and boiled for five minutes ; on cooling the solution was filtered through paper and diluted till the strength was about 1 per cent.* A. With Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
The culture solution + about 1 per cent , starch ( soluble ) Acer pseudoplatanus Tilia Europcea Starch grains formed in the leaves after 24 hours , abundant after 48 hours .
Ditto after 48 hours ; not so abundant as above ; increased after 8 days .
B. Supplied to Roots .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
( a. ) Same solution as in 10 A Acer pseudoplatanus Epilobium Jiirsutum\ JPhaseolus multiflorus Tilia Europcea No starch formed ( 6 days ) .
Ditto .
Ditto .
* Sachs ' method being obviously inapplicable in this case , micro-chemical obser-vations on sections were used to detect the starch grains in the leaves .
f The two seedlings of E. hirsutum used were apparently injured in adding the additional soluble starch , as they withered during the second six days .
As the results were negative in other cases , this experiment was not repeated .
Except in case of IE .
hirsutum ( see note above ) , the plants all resumed growth and formed starch after several days when planted out .
by Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
171 no More " soluble starch " added to the culture solution in each of the above till solution contained about 7 percent .
" soluble starch , and experiments continued for another six days with same plants .
Same plants .
No starch formed .
No. 11 .
Experiments with Glycogen .
An ordinary solution of glycogen obtained by extracting the liver of a freshly-killed rabbit was purified by 01 .
Bernard s method , m which the glycogen is first precipitated by alcohol and the well-washed precipitate ( with alcohol ) dissolved in strong potash and boiled for half an hour .
The solution is then diluted , filtered an a-ain precipitated in alcohol , well washed with the same , and the precipitate dissolved in water .
The aqueous solution is strong y acidified with acetic acid ( to render the insoluble ( m alcohol ) potas-sium carbonate soluble as potassium acetate ) , finally precipitated wi alcohol , well washed with the same , and dried at a low temperature .
If kept for any length of time after the preparation , the dry powder was thoroughly washed with alcohol and again dried before making the solutions used in the experiments .
The solutions remained opalescent and did not contain any " reducing substances " after the experiments ; this was proved by precipitating the glycogen , \amp ; c. , with strong alcohol and testing the filtrate after evaporating off the alcohol , \amp ; e. , \amp ; c. , m the usual way .
No. 11.\#151 ; Experiments with Glycogen .
A. With Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plants .
Kesults .
The culture solution Alisma plantago No starch , formed ( 6 4- 1*5 per cent. Ranunculus acris days ) .
glycogen JEpilobium hirsutum Leaves not apparently injured .
B. Solution supplied to Roots .
The culture solution Acer pseudoplatanus No starch in the leaves at + 1 per cent , gly- Phaseolus vulgaris ( 2 plants ) end of 6 days .
cogen .
Cheiranthus Cheiri ( 4 plants ) The plants were not apparently injured , and resumed growth on being planted out .
* See Hoppe-Seyler , ' Traite d'Analyse Chimique appliqu.ee a la Physiologic .
Paris , 1887 ( Translation from German ) , pp. 147\#151 ; 148 .
\0L .
X.LVU .
0 Mr. E. H. Acton .
The Assimilation of No. 12 .
Experiments with " Extract of Natural Humus .
" An extract of " humus " was obtained by digesting the soil\#151 ; a light leaf mould\#151 ; with dilute alcohol on a water-bath for eight hours and filtering through asbestos and powdered glass .
The alcohol was distilled off on a water-bath , the residual solution diluted with water , and again filtered as above .
100 c.c. of this solution evaporated to dryness at 110 ' C. left 0*3708 grain of solid residue , which showed on combustion that it contained 15 per cent , of carbon.* As bacteria , fungi , alga ) , \amp ; c. , rapidly make their appearance when such a solution is allowed to stand , I found it convenient to keep the alcoholic extract , referred to above , and evaporate off the alcohol just before use .
No. 12.\#151 ; Experiments with " Extract of Natural Humus .
" A. With Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
I. Culture solution + 20 c.c. of the " extract " II , Ditto I Same solution as above Scrophularia aquatic a Tilia Europcea Phase ol$is vulgaris Cheiranthus Cheiri \gt ; .
Solution supplied to the Acer pseudoplatanus ( 2 plants ) Quercus robur ( 2 plants ) Phaseolus vulgaris ( 1 plant ) Cheiranthus Cheiri No formation of starch ( 6 days ) .
No starch ( 8 days ) .
Roots .
Starch was formed in the leaves , but in all cases only a small quantity after 6 days ( not tested earlier ) .
* The residue contains a small quantity of nitrogen , but the amount varies greatly in different extracts .
I have not experimented with any extract of " natural " humus perfectly free from N ( compare Exp. No. 13 ) .
by Green Plants from certain Organic .
" Humus Extract .
" Experiments with Water Plants .
( Method and apparatus as described on pp. 155 156 ) .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
A. The culture solution diluted with twice its volume of distilled water + " humus extract " * Sparganium natans ( parts of 4 plants ) Callitriche aquatica No starch formed .
Plants not injured after 10 days .
No bubbles of gas evolved in bright sunlight after six hours .
B. Some humus-containing soil which had been heated to low red-heat ( 10 hours)in a " muffle " and cooled in a desiccator added to above solution just before transferring the plant to solution Cal lit rich aquatica Ditto ditto No. 13 .
Experiments with the 11 Hue " product of Alkalies on Cane-Sugar* Cane-sugar ( saccharon)t was boiled with strong solution of KOH for half an hour , and the whole solution diluted with water and then acidified with HC1 , which causes the separation of flocculent brown " humus-like " substances .
The precipitate was washed with dilute acid , dried , and then boiled with water ; the aqueous extract so prepared was used in these experiments after filtering through paper .
The above aqueous extract contained about 2 per cent , of solid substances .
* The chemical nature of these brown " humus-like " substances is very little known , but they are generally assumed by chemists to be closely related to the chief constituents of natural " humus , " which must be chiefly derived from the decomposition of cellulose and ligneous matter .
( Compare Beilstein , ' Handb .
d. Org .
Chem. , ' 2nd Edition.\#151 ; " Huminsubstanz .
" ) t Compare Conrad and G-uthzeit , in ' Berichte Deutsch .
Chem. G-esell .
, ' 1885 , p. 439 .
o 2 Mr. E. H. Acton .
The Assimilation Carbon No. 13.\#151 ; Experiments with the " H Product of Alkalies on Cane-Sugar * A. With Cut Branches .
Solution used .
Plants .
Results .
The culture solution Till a E a r op ce a 1 No starch formed ( 6 + 25 c.c. of the Phaseolus vulgaris , days ) .
aqueous extract Euphorbia helioscopia B. Solution supplied to the Roots .
[ Same solution as Cheiranthus Cheiri ( 3 plants ) No formation of starch in above Acer pseudoplatanus ( 1 plant ) Quercus robur the leaves ( 8 days ) .
The plants resumed growth on being again planted out after the experiment .
Abstract of Results of Experiments .
1 .
Starch formed when compound is supplied either direct to leaves or to roots , with\#151 ; Glucose , Glycerin , Saccharon , Inulin .
( Observed by A. Meyer for " supplied to shoots " ) .
Experiments on shoots not repeated .
2 .
Starch formed when the compound is supplied direct to leaves but not when supplied direct to roots , with\#151 ; Soluble Starch .
3 .
Starch formed when the compound is supplied to the roots , but not when supplied direct to the leaves , with\#151 ; " Humus Extract .
" 4 .
Starch not formed at all\#151 ; with acrolein , or compounds ; allyl alcohol ; dextrin ; glycogen ; aldehyde or compounds ; Inevulinic acid ; artificial humus substance .
5 .
Glucose more readily taken up by roots from 05 per cent , solution than saccharon .
All the glucose can be withdrawn from a 1 per cent , solution by roots if left in the solution sufficiently long .
I conclude from these experiments\#151 ; * When 5 per cent , of glucose was added to a portion of the aqueous extract , and the beaker containing this mixture exposed to light , a considerable amount of fungus mycelium ( P bacteria ) formed in the solution by the end of 14 days .
by Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
175 That green plants cannot normally obtain carbon for " assimilation " from any substances except carbohydrates or bodies closely related to them ; not from aldehydes or their derivatives , and not from all carbohydrates even .
That a compound may be a source of carbon when supplied to the leaves , but not when supplied to the roots , and versa .
That ( since parasitic and saprophytic plants , and especially fungi , undoubtedly do always obtain their carbon from complex organic substances ) green plants , owing to the normal process of obtaining carbon being from C02 , have to a large extent lost the power of using such substances as a source of carbon .
That many green plants ( P all ) behave in the same manner towards such substances .
[ Contrast fungi , which often are characterised by decomposing special substances .
] That ( since neither leaves nor roots can avail themselves of carbon in the form of aldehyde or its compounds\#151 ; formose , allyl alcohol , acrolein , lsevulinic acid , \amp ; c. ) it is still uncertain whether or not a single substance of an aldehydic or ketonic nature is really formed by plants as an intermediate product between C02 and H20 and glucose ( or starch ) ; but , if such is produced , it can only be polymerised by the plant under special conditions , * probably at the moment of formation .
* Compare Loew , ' Bericlite Deutsch .
Chem. Gesel ] .
, ' 1889 , p. 470 .
V0I\#187 ; XLVir .
p

