306 Prof. R. Owen on the Fossil Mammals of Australia .
[ Apr. 1B ; II .
" On the Posail Mammals of Australia .
Part VII .
Genus Phascolomys ; species exceeding the existing ones in size .
" By Prof. R. Owen , P.R.S. Received March 25 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The author , referring to a former communication , in which the osteolo-gical and dental characters of the existing kinds of Wombat were applied in the determination of the fossil remains of extinct species resembling the living ones in size , proceeds in the present paper to give the evidences which have reached him of species of Phascolomys , formerly existing in Australia , exceeding in size any that are now known to live there .
Sj The extinct species so reconstructed are described in the order in which they progressively predominate in bulk over the existing Wombats .
They are referred to Phascolomys medius , Phascolomys magnus , and Phascolomys 'gig as .
1 The characters of these species are shown , not only by the size of ascertained adult and aged individuals , but by modifications of shape of both upper and lower jaws , and by differences of shape and of relative proportion of certain teeth .
Fossils exemplifying a moderate and seemingly determinate range of variety in different individuals and probably diffea^J sexes are noticed , and the evidences of some of these varieties of the largest extinct species are figured .
In his concluding remarks the author notices that , in the case of the genus Phascolomys , as in that of other genera of which an adequate number of fossil evidences have been acquired , the number of species which have passed away exceeds that of the known living ones .
Of the latter the growth of knowledge has been rapid and comparatively recent , and all the species adhere to the size compatible with the burrowing habits of the first observed Wombat { Phascolomys fossor , Wagner ) .
But a like habit and power of concealment cannot safely be ascribed to the larger extinct Wombats .
" If , " remarks the author , " we knew the Hare only by fossil remains , we should err in attributing to it the underground retreat and way of life of the Rabbit .
" The evidence adduced in the present paper shows that all the larger kinds of Wombat have perished .
The author , in reference to the cause of extirpation , refers to his remarks on the conditions affecting the contest for existence , as applied to the larger extinct wingless birds of New Zealand , and observes that the comparatively diminutive representative of Dinornis\gt ; viz. the Apteryx , escapes pursuit and observation by being able to avail itself , like the small existing Wombats , of an underground retreat .
The paper concludes with reference to the bearings of its subject on other generalities .

