I. " Description of the Cavern of Bruniquel , and its Organic Contents.-Part II .
Equine Remains .
" By Professor OWEN , F.R.S. Received August 20 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author has selected the fossil remains of the Equine family as the subject of the second part of his Description of the Cave of Bruniquel and its contents , which Cave , with the human remains , was described in Part I. communicated to the Royal Society , June 9 , 1864 .
He premises a definition of the several parts of the grinding-surface of the upper and lower molars and premolars in the genus Equus , homologizing them with those in the corresponding teeth of ipiparion , Paloplotherium , and Palceotherium .
Next , referring to the want of figures of the natural size , or of any figures of the characteristic surface of the teeth of the molar series in the known species of the existing Equines , the author gives a description thereof in the Horse ( Equus caballus ) , Ass ( E. asinus ) , Kiang ( E. hemiconus ) , Quagga ( E. quagga ) , Dauw ( E. Burchelli ) , and Zebra ( E. Zebra ) , indicating by comparison their respective characteristics .
These descriptions are accompanied with drawings ( of the natural size ) of the working-surface of the dentition of each species , with lettered details of such surface in the teeth of both upper and under jaws .
The Equine fossils from the Cave of Bruniquel are then described and compared with each other , with the above-named existing species of Equus , and with previously defined fossil species of Equidce .
Two varieties in respect of size and some minor characters are pointed out in the Bruniquel series , of one of which figures ( of the natural size ) of the grinding-surface of the upper and lower molar series , and of the second variety , figures of the same surface of the upper molar series are given .
The author , remarking that such evidences of mature and full-grown animals are rare from the Bruniquel Cave-deposits , selects evidence of certain phases of dentition in the Cave Equines which lend aid in determining their affinities ; these phases being illustrated by four drawings of the natural size .
Of the various fossil teeth of Equidce with which those from Bruniquel have been compared , the author finds the closest resemblance , approaching to identity , in certain fossils from freshwater sedimentary deposits of Postpliocene or " Quaternary " age in the Department of the Puy-de-Dome , France .
Of these , descriptions are given of the teeth of the upper and lower jaws from such deposits at a locality traversed by the river Allier , near the '"Tour de Juvillac .
" A figure of the working-surface of the teeth of the lower jaw from this locality is given ( of the natural size ) , showing the characters of the canine and proportions of the diastema .
The close conformity in the characters of the upper grinders of the Puy-de-D'me fossils of deposit with those of the Bruniquel cavern enables the author to dispense with figures of them .
The sum of the several comparisons is to refer the above Equine fossils from sedimentary deposits and both varieties from the Bruniquel cave to one and the same species or well-marked race belonging to the true Horses , or restricted genus Equus of modern mammalogists ; the individuals of which race , with a small range of size , probably due to sex , were less than the average-sized horse of the present period , but larger than known existing striped or unstriped species of Asinus , Gray .
Interesting testimony , confirmatory of the conclusion from the palmontological comparisons , is adduced from outlines of the heads of different individuals of the Cave Equine when alive , neatly cut on the smooth surface of a rib of the same species , discovered by the Vicomte de Lastic St. Jal in 1863 , in his cavern at Bruniquel , under circumstances which indisputably showed the work to have been done by one of the tribe of men inhabiting the cavern and slaying the wild horses of that locality and period for food .
The author remarks that every bone of the Horse 's skeleton ( and such evidence had been obtained from about a hundred individuals that had been exhumed at the period of his second visit to Bruniquel , in February 1864 ) had been split or fractured to gain access to the marrow .
The dental canal and roots of the teeth had been similarly exposed in every specimen of jaw .

