]\gt ; The of increase in strength of colour , which was generally in the light transmitted through these films when the plane of polarisation of obliquely incident light was changed from thaC of incidenoe to a perpendicular position is accounted for .
In Part III soms evidence is brought to show that the allotropic silvers obtained by Carey Lea are particular cases of the media hich have been considered in the second part .
The General heory of Tntegration .
H. YOUNG , Sc. D. .
St. Peter 's College , icated by Dr. E. W. HOBSON , .
Reoeiyed April 2 May 19 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) The paper begins with a recapitulation of the well-known definitions of integration and of upper and lower integration ( inte'gral par exces , par ; oberes , unteres Integral ) .
The theorem on which the Darboux definition of upper ( lower ) integration is foumded is stated and proved in the following form:\mdash ; Given small positive quantity , we can determine a positive quantity , such that , if the fundamental segment ) divided up in any manner into a finite number of intervals , then , provided only the length of each interval is less than , the upper summation of any fumction over these intervals differs by less than from a definite limiting value ( the upper integral ) .
Next follows a discussion as to whether it is admissible to adopt a more general mode of division of the fundamental segment than that used by Riemann , Darboux and other writers , when forming tions ( upper , lower summations ) , defining as limit the integral ( upper , lower integral ) , of a function over the fundamental segment .
It is shown by examples first that the restriction as to the finiteness of the number of intervals into which the fundamental segment is divided cannot be removed without limitations ; but that it can be removed , provided the content of the intervals is always equal to that of the fundamental segment .
Secondly it is shown that error introduced by taking the summation over an infinite number of intervals whose content is less than that of the { undamental segment , is not in general corrected by adding to the summation the content of the points external to the intervals multiplied by corresponding value ( upper , lower limit ) of the function .
Similarly it is shown that the more Amer .
Journ. of Science , ' VOL. LXXIII .
Dr. W. H. Young .
general division of the fundamental segment into component sets points , whose content plays the part of the length of the intervals the original definitions , leads to summations which do not , in general , have a definite limit even for integrable functions .
The lower limit such gensralised upper summations is shown to be not less than upper limit of such generalised lower summations ; but it is shown that in general , only in case of upper continuous functions does the former give us the upper integral , and in the case of lower semi-continuous functions does the latter give us the lower integral .
In general , introducing the terms outer and inner measure of the integral for these limits , the lower is less than the inner measure , which is less than the outer measure , which is less than the upper integral .
The property of semi-continuous fuIlctions just mentioned lea , ds to a new form of the definition of the upper ower ) , integral in this case , namely , as follows:\mdash ; Divide the fundamental segment into a finite or countably infinite number of measurable components , multiply the content of each componenl by the upper ( lower ) limit of the values of an upper ( lower ) semi-continuous funclion at points of that componenl and sum all such products ; then the lower ( upper ) limit of all such summations for every conceivable mode of division is the upper ( lower ) of the semi-oontinuous function .
Introducing ?
louuer limiting functions , we then the following theorem:\mdash ; The upper ( lower ) integral of any is the upper ( lower ) integral of its associated upper ( lower ) semi-continuous function .
This leads to a definition of upper and lower integration , which is as follows:\mdash ; Divide the fundamental segment into any finite or countably infinite number of measurable components , muItiply the content of each component by the upper ( lower ) limit of the maxima ( minima ) of the function at points of that component and sum all such products ; then the lower ( upper ) , limit of all such summations for every conceivable mode of division is the upper ( lower ) integral of the function over the fundamental segment .
This gives us also a definition of the integral in the case when it exists , that is , when the upper and lower integrals are equal .
This form of the definitions is at once extendable to the case when the fundamental set is any measurable set whatever , we merely to replace the word segment by set , or more precisely by measurable * ' On Upper and Lower Integration 'Lond .
Math. Soc. Proc. ' 1904 .
] The of Let the fundamental set , exchlding at most a set of points of zero content , be enclosed in or on the borders of , set of non-ovel'lapI ) segments each less than of cotltent less than Then let the content of that component of in any meant 1 ) multiplied by the upper ( lower ) limit of the values of the function at points of that component , and let the summation be formed of all such products .
Then it Dlay be shown that this summation has a limit when is indefinite ] decreased , independent of the mode of construction of the segmenoe and the mode in which the .
This limit is called the upper ( lower ) integral of the function respect to the tal set S. In the case when the ) and coincide , the function is said to be with respect to , and the condition of integrability is found in form reeing completely with 's condition in case wheIl b is a segment .
To prove the is required that the ) )in -coniinuous funcfion ) to the integral of their , and the proof of this theorem is given .
It is then shown that , except the caso of upper ( lower ) semicontinuous functions , the upper ( lower ) ntegr oycr the set is not necessarily to the sum of nppel over any set of components of , but that this is the when divided by means of segme1lts .
A function which is integrable with respect to is to hayo the follotving properties:\mdash ; It is integrable over every component set of S. 2 ) The ] of the integrable ftIlction i to the sum of the over every finite or countably infinite ntlmbel of components into which , may be diyide ( 3 ) The sum of the of any finite .
of integrable where is any quantity not greater than the lower limit , and not less than the upper limit of the function for points of , I the content of that component of at every point of which the maximum of ths metion is greater than or equal to The lower integral is being the content of that component of at every point of which the minimum of the metion is less than or equal to These formulae lead to certain theorems respect t distribution of the values of an ordinary continuous function and of an integrable ftmction .
The remainder of the paper is devoted to the discussion of the inner and outer measures of the integral of any ) , and the case when they are equal of the generalised integral of a function , which is , in this generalised sense , integrable .
In particnlar it is shown that such functions are none ot , her than the functions which Lebesgue named , and the generalised is shown to be identical with the Lebesgue integral the case when is a finite segment ; geometrical interpretation of the integral , similar to that ussd by given in general case .
Contrasting the first definition given of the generalised integral with the geometrical ition , it seen that they stand to another in the same relation as the ordinary definition of integration , say of a continuous function , to its definition as a ccrtain area .
Just as , however , the mathematical concept of area is more complex than , and , indeed , depends on that of length , so does the theory of the content of a plane set of points depend naturally on that of a linear .
Just as the determination of area requires ths application of the processes explained in the first definition of ) of continnous , so with the content of a plane set .
the comparative simplicity of the geometrical definition is only apparent .
Gencrnl Lebssgue 's theorem that the of functions is a summabls function and its is the snm of rals is then proved by geometrical considerRtion , and a more general theorem is given , .
: \mdash ; If and be the outer and inn er measurcs of the content of the ordinat.e section of a measurable set by the late t the polnt x are both summable functions , and the generalised integral of either is the content of the measural ) set .
It is here assumed that the content of the set got by r:losing the measurable set is fiIzite .
The content of this restriction only , is thus obtained in the form of a generalised integral and , therefore , of an ordinary ; in fact\mdash ; The content of measnrable set ( provided the set got by it has finite content ) is Here I is the content of the componenl of the set at which the inner ( or the outer ) of the conteilt of the ordinate section of the given set is grc It to be remarked this ) stract reference has only been made to linear and plane sets to the Corresp 1rals , the arguments are apply to spacc of nnber of ions .
the coneluding result is as To find the content of a surable n set , any hyperplane section and ojeet the xvhole set 011 to this phtne .
Any ) set projection we take as the set .
Divido way or ably infinite set 01 compo1lents , aild the content of each componeut by the hmit of the values of the ( linear ) or outsr co1ttent of corresponding ordinate sections oi the given sunlming { such products , the ) limit of the content of the given sct .

