]\gt ; Mr. R. T. Glazebrook .
[ Nov. 17 , X. " " On the Refraction of Plane Polarised Light at the Surface of a Uniaxal By R. T. GLAZEBROOK , M.A. , Fellow and Assistant Lecturer of Trinity College , Demonstrator in the Cavendish boratory , Cambridge .
Communicated by Lord RAYLEIGH , M.A. , F.R. .
Recelved October 27 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The paper , of which the following is an abstract , contains an experlmental investigation of the relation between the plane of of light falling on the surface of a crystal of Iceland spar and the angles of incidence and refraction in the cases in which only refracted wave traverses the crystal .
A prism was cut from a piece of spar , one face of the prism coinciding almost exactl with rhombic face , and plane polarised light allowed to fall on it at a known a angle of incidence .
The deviation of light of a definite wave-length both the ordinary and extraordinary spectrum is observed , and from that and the angle of incidence we can calcuIate and , the two angles of refraction .
The polariser being then until the ray .
uestion disappears from the extraordinary spectrum its pos tion noted .
A known small rotation is then given to the plane of polarisation of the incident light either by turning the polariser through a known angle , or introducing into the path of the Iight a cell containing a solution of sugar .
This causes the reappearance of t , he ray question in the extraordinary spectrum , and the spar risnl is then moved , thus varying the angle of incidence until it again disappears .
The angle of incidence and the deviation of the same ray in the ordinary spectrum being measured , we get a second pair of values of and under the condition that the ordinary ray only traverses the crystal .
Now if be the angle which the optic axis makes with the edge of the prism , the angle between the face of incidence a plane through the optic axis and the edge of the prism , and the angle between the direction of vibration of the incident light and this same edge , it follows , either from the electro-magnetic theory of light ( Lorentz , " " Schlomilch Zeitschrift vol. 22 ; itzgerald , " " Phil. Trans vol. 171 , 1880 ) , or the theories of Neumann Abhand .
Akad .
Berlin 1835 ) , NlacCullagh Trans. Roy .
Acad 1839 ) , and Kirchhoff Abhand .
Akad .
Berlin 1876 ) , that if the ordinary ray only traverses the cr.vstal\mdash ; .
We are thus able to obtain a series of theoretical values of .
The difference between two consecutive values should , if the theory be true , give us the angle through which the plane of polarisation has 1881 .
] On the Refraction of Plane Polarised .
31 been turned .
There is some difficulty in determining with certainty the angle between the edge of the prism , from which .
is measured , and the principal plane of the polarising prism any given position .
We , therefore , cannot compare a series of observed and calculated values of with accuracy ; we can , however , compare the differences between consecutive values of given by theory with those differences as produced by the known rotation of the , or that due to the sugar cell .
Similar observations were made for the case in which only the extraordinary ray traverses the crystal ; in this case , if and be the principal efractive indices , we have , according to the same theories , \mdash ; sm where is given by .
Two series of vations are recorded in the paper , the one made in November , 1880 , the other with new and improved apparatus August , 1881 .
The two series lead to practically identical results .
Taking first the case in which ] ordinary wave only is for high angles of incidence the rate of change in the values of as given by theory is considerably greater than that given by experiment .
Wben lies between and ( about ) , the two closely , and as the ange of incidence decreases still further , there is a tendency for th experimental value of the difference to become the greater .
The differences between theory and experiment amount to 6 per cent. of the quantity measured when the ordinary wave is tl.ansmitted , and to 15 per cent. when the extraordinary wave only passes through the prism .
When only the extraordinal.y wave is transmitted the reverse is the case , the theoretical value is for large values of too small ; for angles between and the two agree fairly , and for smaller angles the experimental value becomes too small .
Other series of experiments lead to the same conclusions .
For details as to the arrangements of the apparatus , the method of determining exactly when one ray is quenched , the probable accuracy of the resuIts , and the effects of small errors in the constants of the formulae or the adjustment of the apparaius , reference must be made to the paper .
The experiments were conducted by Lord 's kind permission in one of the rooms the Laboratory , at

