XXXI .
On the Means of producing a double Distillation by the same heat .
By Smithson Tenant , Esq. F. R. S. Read June 3o , 1814 .
IT was first made known by the experiments of Dr. BLACK , and has since been confirmed by those of Mr. WATT and other philosophers , that the quantity of heat required for raising the temperature of water from fifty degrees to that of the boiling point , is only about a sixth of that which is afterwards required for converting the boiling water into steam .
As the steam itself is not hotter than the boiling water , the heat which it had absorbed was said by Dr. BLACK to be latent ; being merely employed in supporting the aerial state which the water had assumed .
Whenever this steam is condensed , the heat which was latent again reappears , and in such considerable quantity , that it has been found convenient for various purposes to employ the condensation of steam for heating other bodies .
But though water may by this means be brought to the boiling point , it can not be raised above it , and therefore cannot be converted into vapour , so as to pass over by distillation .
As soon as the steam has imparted to the water its own temperature , there is no longer any transfer of heat , and the steam passes through the water uncondensed .
If , on the contrary , the steam did continue to condense , then the water would itself be converted into steam , and might by that means be distilled over without any additional fire ; and though this does not take place under the usual circumstances , yet it may be effected in the following manner .
Thetemperature required for converting any fluid into vapour is dependent on the pressure of the air upon its surface , and may therefore be lowered if that pressure is diminished .
If then the weight of the air was removed from water , it would rise into vapour below the common boiling point , and might therefore be distilled over by steam of the usual heat .
In order to produce this effect , a vessel having a receiver connected with it should be made air tight , and the steam made to pass through the vessel along a worm or spiral tube of metal , in the manner represented in the annexed outline .
Cooler for condensing '\\-S * ' *the steam .
# , !
&lt; &lt; '_ First boiler .
Second boiler .
The vacuum is now easily produced by applying heat to the vessel till the steam issues from the opening in it , and in the receiver , when they are to be immediately closed , and the heat removed .
588 The water distilled over is collected in the receiver , which is kept cool for that purpose .
An apparatus of this kind I had cJnstructed chiefly for the purpose of explaining the theory of latent heat , or of the capacity of bodies for heat in different states ; but it is possible that it may also be of some further practical utility , whenever it is of consequence to economise the consumption of fuel .
When water is deficient on board of ship , it has been in some degree supplied by distillation from the ship 's boiler , and if the steam from the boiler had been made to pass through the apparatus just described , the quantity would be nearly doubled .
By an experiment which I had made some time ago , about three fourths of the quantity obtained by the first distillation were added by the second .
But I believe a larger proportion may be procured when the second distilling vessel is duly coated with flannel , or some light substance , to retain the heat .
Though salt water does not boil at so low a degree of heat as fresh water , yet upon trial with sea water the difference was found to be quite insignificant , compared with that of the steam formed under the usual pressure , and in vacuo ; and did not sensibly affect the result of the process .
The only doubt as to the propriety of taking such a vessel to sea , would arise froth the degree of danger which there is of experiencing a want of fresh water .
This probably , I apprehend , is not great ; but on the other hand , there is the important object of saving the lives of the people in the ship , whenever such deficiency is experienced .

