[ 473 ] Studies in the Morphology of Spore-producing Members.\#151 ; Equisetinece and Lycopodinece .
F. 0 .
Bower , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Regius Professor of Botany in the University of Glasgow .
Received June 9 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1893 .
[ Plates 42-52 .
] INTRODUCTION .
bservations of Hofmeister stand , in their broad outlines , as the foundation of )rphology of archegoniate plants .
It will be assumed that readers will accept in ain the homologies which , on the basis of those observations , he recognized in the corresponding parts of the Bryophyta , Vascular Cryptogams , and Gymno-5 ; it will also be assumed that , whatever may have been the circumstances led to it , antithetic alternation was brought about by elaboration of the zygote to form a new generation ( the sporophyte ) interpolated between successive ophytes , and that the neutral generation is not in any sense the result of cation or metamorphosis of the sexual , but a new product having a distinct genetic history of its own .
Those who accept this view will keep distinct in ninds the sexual generation or gametophyte on the one hand , and the neutral ition or sporophyte on the other , whatever their variations , either in relative 1 111 Physiological dependence ; and they will recognize that no homologies are admitted between them or their parts .
Clear conceptions on these points are itely essential , if there is to be real progress in comparative morphology7 ; though tody of either generation may shed side-lights upon the problems relating to the it e two alternating generations.must be treated apart , so long as the main USl0Ils Hofmeister continue to be accepted .
6 assumption above made as to the origin of antithetic alternation is based upon , COInparison of living plants , which leads to the conclusion that , of the two , generations , the sexual generation ( the oophyte or gametophyte ) was the .
'n.e : that subsequently a neutral ( the sporophyte ) was produced as a stage ^ Pp^polated between the successive sexual generations ; and that this new Pr'duced , not by mere modification of the oophyte , or of a part of it , but by LI)C_ 1071 'f die product of sexuality\#151 ; the zygote ; by its sub-division into numerous .-TV 21.9,94 cells the effect of a single sexual process is distributed over the parts prodt^s these parts , when isolated , may be styled the , or , to distinguish them|| I other unicellular organs of propagation , they are designated by the special te !
" carpospores " Further comparison of living forms leads to the conclusion that the followed upon the increasing size of the sporophyte a progressive sterilization of J tissues , so that only a part of those tissues continued to be sporogenous ; this d most readily illustrated by reference to the Bryophyta ( see below , p. 485 , \amp ; e. ) , a series\lt ; j plants in which progressive sterilization of the tissues of the sporophyte appears t have been closely connected with its increasing size and structural complexity .
Tb series is , however , characterized by the simple external form of the sporophyte , an by the further fact that the sporogenous tissue of each individual sporophyte normally a continuous mass ; accordingly , the recognition of the progressive steriliz ; tion is in them comparatively easy .
Progressive sterilization seems also to have played an important part in the evoli tion of the Yascular Cryptogams ; in these , as we see them at the present da the proportion of sporogenous tissue to vegetative tissue is comparatively small ; tl sporogenous cells are commonly separated into small masses , or are distributed singlt in fact , the sterilization appears to have progressed much further in the Yascul Cryptogams than in the Bryophyta ; the external form , also , is much more comple owing to the presence of appendicular organs .
But though it may be more differ to trace the steps of sterilization in the living Yascular Cryptogams , owing to t !
process having been more completely carried out , the experience gained from study ' the Algae and Bryophyta should direct the line of observation into this channel , a : occasion to note its effects will frequently arise in subsequent pages .
The adoption of the foliar habit as seen in the sporophyte of Yascular Cryptogan together with the elaboration of a subterranean system for absorption , brought wii it very great advantages ; the physiological independence of the sporophyte w thereby secured , and it accordingly assumed a more permanent character and long life .
Considering the greatness of the advantage thus gained , and the remote peri : .
of the past at which the step must have been taken in any one of the several sen of vascular plants , it is intelligible enough that connecting links , showing how tb appendicular organs were first acquired , and how the transition from a continues archesporium to one consisting of isolated cells or cell-groups took place , shouldl\#187 ; few and uncertain among the plants of the present day .
It has been remarked tl the gap between the Bryophyta and the Yascular Cryptogams is the widest in t:1 whole vegetable kingdom .
On the one hand are plants with a dependent sporophy of simple external form , with a continuous sporogenous mass , and having the spo:-genous tissue in large proportion as compared with the sterile tissue ; on the otk plants with the sporophyte physiologically independent , with complex external for* and sporogenous tissues in isolated masses , or appearing as isolated cells , and win the sterile tissue exceeding it greatly .
To bridge over the gap between plants wm OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
cters thus widely divergent is the most clearly outstanding problem of hology .
Hitherto , fossils have helped but little in this direction : it therefore irs that investigators must depend mainly upon comparison of living forms , not to be expected that even the most diligent study and comparison of these lo more than give suggestions as to the solution of the problem ; but if the view 3 propounded be steadily maintained , and the more complex sporophyte be .ded as a derivative by partial sterilization , and vegetative amplification of simpler aal forms , the gulf would appear a less serious one than it is at present commonly ped to be .
ie most important additions to knowledge of the YasOular Cryptogams in recent i have related to the oophyte and sexual organs , and to the development of the yo .
While the importance of these is duly appreciated , I may remark that I not complete confidence in phylogenetic conclusions based upon the vegetative icters of the gametophyte ; that generation is certainly very plastic in its form , ritness the various types of prothallus in the genus , where the ire sporophyte remains much more constant in character .
The question ot the iv value of the characters of the two generations for purposes of comparison , hose plants which show conspicuous alternation will be discussed more fully irds the close of this memoir ; in the meanwhile it may be stated that while due finence will be accorded to the sexual generation , the characters of the neutial oration will here chiefly engage our attention , for it is believed that a widely snded study of the morphology of spore-production is specially needed at the ent juncture ; not only should a re-examination be made of sporangia already istigated by others , but also observations on such rare forms as have not hitherto .1 fully studied from the point of view of development .
he chief reasons for attaching special weight to the comparative and develop-ltal study of spore-producing organs are as follows .
Spore-production was Loubtedly the first office of the sporophyte , and to it practically the whole of the rogonium was originally devoted ; the sporogonium of the simpler Liverworts strates what was probably the primitive condition before the vegetative system of sporophyte appeared .
Spore-production is still , even iii the most complex of the her forms , the end to which the whole vegetative system tends .
In the life-cycle the vascular plants and Bryophyta of the present day the production of spores is a jjularly recurring event , * and there is every reason to believe that it was regularly \gt ; eated throughout the course of their evolution .
The spore-producing members , latever their form , may therefore be styled primary as regards the history of scent , and the sporogenous cells which they contain are to be viewed as , at least , * Exception must be made in the case of tbose few plants which sbow the phenomenon of apospory , in which propagation is conducted in a vegetative manner only ; both of these conditions have obably been acqnired at a comparatively late period .
the functional , and presumably also the morphological representatives , which Sw !
from the original connected sporogenous mass.# But the case is different with the vegetative organs of the sporophyte , such asL leaf , and root ; on comparative grounds it may be concluded that these owed tW origin to that progressive sterilization and amplification above alluded to ; that^ vegetative period , often of considerable length , has thus been intercalated between the fertilization of the ovum and the production of the spores , and thereby the date of production of the spores deferred .
However great may be the size of the vegetative organs , the complexity of their form and internal structure , and however long the tim .
of their duration , they should still be placed in a subordinate position , and mayb styled secondary members as regards the history of descent .
Priority of morphc logical importance for comparative purposes is habitually conceded to those part which are of earliest date and of most constant occurrence ; accordingly the priorit must here be given , not to the vegetative parts of vascular plants , though these appear first in the development of the individual , but to the spore-producing member !
the sporogenous cells of which are believed to represent that tissue which form originally the whole constituent mass of the sporophyte .
Having thus stated broadly the point of view which will be maintained throughoi this memoir , it will be well to look back upon earlier opinions as to the morphologic !
" dignity " of the sporangium .
The earlier expressions of opinion on the nature* sporangia related to the pollen-sacs and ovules of the higher plants , these being ver readily observed .
It has been the misfortune of the morphological branch of 01 science that it was hampered by the early possession of a fairly accurate knowledge : the higher forms and recognition of their parts ; as the result , a definite terminolog as well as a certain attitude of mind regarding them , became fixed at a date prior : the investigation of the lower forms ; every one now would admit that the ma phology of the higher plants is to be read in the light of a knowledge of the low : types , and yet morphologists commonly retain such views as would never have gain* acceptance , if the course of investigation had been inverted , and the history of tl progress of the science had led from the examination of the lower forms to that of t ; higher .
On the most fundamental ideas of the relation of the sporangium to t vegetative organs , the views commonly held are incompatible with the pro bat history of descent ; such views are to be looked upon as a legacy left behind by the so placed in the history of the science that their progress in morphological study w downwards along the branches of the developmental tree , instead of upwards .
The first expression of opinion on the morphological nature of sporangia appears ' have been that of Wolff , and naturally relates to the higher plants .
He states b * The question as to the sporogenous cells of modem sporangia being the lineal descendants , or,1 other words , the morphological representatives of the sporogenous cells of a simple undifferentiat* sporophyte will be discussed below , in the light of facts to be described later ; at present , the view tl in most cases they are so , may be taken as a working hypothesis strongly supported on general groun .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
that " even the seeds , notwithstanding that at first sight they have not the test resemblance to leaves , are still in fact simply coalescent leaves , " * and again includes " that the stamens also are in their nature simply leaves .
In one word , 16 whole plant , whose parts at first sight appear so excessively diverse we see , lature consideration , nothing more than leaves and stem , since the root belongs le latter " t From these quotations it appears that Wolff , though thoroughly ainted with the parts of the flower , did not distinguish sporangia as a separate Torv but as modifications of leaves or parts of leaves . .
" be same was essentially Goethe 's view , arrived at by a distinct course o : " Goethe !
( 1790 ) at the outset drew attention to the fact that certain .rior parts of plants sometimes " change and pass into the form of adjacent parts er wholly or in greater or less degree .
" Of this change or " metamorphosis he immishes three kinds , regular , irregular , and occasional ; the thir , since 1 ades only monstrous developments , may be at once dismissed Under regular regressive metamorphosis Goethe included the changes involved in the develop-it of the individual ; the series , cotyledons , foliage leaves bracts , and floral ans in an annual plant serve as an illustration .
As irregular or retrogressive amorphosis he designated such cases as the petaloid development of stamens ere parts which stand higher in the progressive series take as *hey ^Ve 'P ' .racters of a lower grade .
In the recapitulation paragraphs , 115 19 GoM as up that , whether forming shoots , flowers , or fruits , it is still but the s ; ans which , under different names and various forms , answer the demands bure ; all are referable to one , viz. , the leaf . .
.f , i It is plain , from the expressions used by Wolff and Goethe that the idea of the orangium as an independent member was not yet suggested ; the yarded by Goethe as the result of contraction of the margin of the BtamWleaf 17 , p. 33 ) ; in writing of the ovules , he compares them wi u s\gt ; an ncludes ( S93 ) that " the seeds , which differ from buds by being enclosed , and from immrn by the visible cause of their formation and separation , are s i dated to both .
" Thus , notwithstanding that there was as yet no e mi e iption of the sporangium as an independent member , the theory o me amorp itimately connected with the early views as to the nature of the sP'ra ; \#171 ; ll ' " ' 0 be remembered that the early writers on this subject , and especially Goethe ha s yet no clear ideas as to descent , but had rather a bias towards a belief in ixity of species ; their conclusions are drawn from the study of the in vi r fom a comparative study of plants at large ; nor can we won er t a have been so at a time when the lower forms were hardly stu le a a .
* Woisr , " De Formatione Intestinorum , " 'Novi Comment .
Acad. Petropol , ' Tom. 12 , I166 1767 , p. 405 .
t hoc .
cit. , p. 406 .
X Goethe 's ' Werke .
' Spemann .
Berlin , vol. 83 , p. 19 , \amp ; c. 478 PROFESSOR F. O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY proceed it will be shown bow this morphology , based on ontogeny , and erroneous traces , which the modern views of phylogeny have and that in certain most essential points the two methods are at case , views based on sound comparison must take precedence over conclusions \lt ; gagL| from the mere study of the individual .
During the fifty years which followed the publication of Goethe 's essay , little was done to advance comparative morphology ; the area of facts relating to the Phanerogams was extended , but in the light of our present knowledge it is plain that these could not be properly understood except upon a basis of comparison with the archegoniate plants .
This is amply illustrated in the text-books of the period ; in the concluding pages of the first volume of his ' Organographie Vegetale , ' Aug.-Pyr .
de Candolle ( 1827 ) re-asserts Goethe 's conclusions , though with a wealth of fresh illustration ; the sporangium is still an unrecognised part , and the members of the whole plant including the parts of the flower , are referred to the three categories of Root , Stem ' and Leaf .
While earlier writers hardly attempt a comparison with Cryptogams^ Treviranus did so ( ' Physiologie der Gewachse ' ( 1838 ) , vol. 2 , p. 461 , \amp ; c. ) , but in the absence of knowledge of the life-cycle in such plants , the result was not satisfactory .
A more successful comparison was however made by von Mohl in a Dissertation published in 1837 his main conclusion was that in all the Vascular Cryptogams examined , the structure of the sporangium shows an undeniable similarity to the theca of an anther .
But as a basis for clearer views two things were necessary , a knowledge of the life-cycle of the higher Cryptogams , and of the development of the flower , and of its parts in the Phanerogams .
The latter of these subjects , though earlier investigated by Wolff , was taken up with vigour by Schleiden , and his results were embodied in his J Grundztige der Wissenschaftlichen Botanik ' ( 1845 ) , a book which had a profound effect upon the progress of morphology .
We there find ( p. 282 ) the comparison between the stamens of Phanerogams , and the sporophylls of Vascular Cryptogams broadly stated ; the pollen-sacs and sporangia , and the pollen-grains and spores are also regarded as homologous ; the view is maintained that the stamen is of foliar nature , but instead of assuming a progessive metamorphosis , and stating , as previous writers had done , that the stamen is an altered foliage leaf , Schleiden , resting upon the sure basis of development , did not go further than to admit that the stamen is of modified foliar nature ( p. 284 , \amp ; c. ) .
In the absence of a theory of descent , this is , doubtless , the furthest he could safely go , and it will be seen that he there approaches nearer tc the views to be put forward in this paper , than most of the writers who followed him .
While thus drawing comparisons between the sporangia of the Vascular Cryptogams and the pollen-sacs , and recognizing the stamen as of foliar nature , the writers previous to 1850 seem to have been content to place the ovule in a separate * has left permanent not yet obliterated ; variance\#151 ; in * ' Vermisclite Schriften , ' 1837 , p. 94 .
OF SPORB-PRODTJCING MEMBERS . .
from Goethe 's time onwards it had been regarded by most botanists as equivalent of a bud , but this is not surprising when we consider the peculiar and structure of the ovule , which differs so widely from typical sporangia .
It only through the study of the life-cycle of the Vascular Cryptogams and Gymno-an(j comparison of the latter with the heterosporous forms of the former , that true nature of the ovule could be approached .
This work was accomplished by meister in his ' Vergleichende Untersuchungen , ' 1851 , and those results of his urs , which at present chiefly interest us , were the establishment of clear views on .nation of generations , and the recognition of the homology of the ovule of nerogams with the megasporangium of the heterosporous Pteridophyta .
From time the ovule had to be viewed as bearing the same relation to the pollen-sac as megasporangium to the microsporangium .
Shortly after the publication of mister 's discoveries , the 'Origin of Species ' appeared ( 1859 ) , but it seems at , to have affected the discussions on morphology only to a slight degree .
The ptance of a theory of descent , together with an adequate knowledge of alternation , ild have led quickly to the establishment of the sporangia as forming a distinct , " ory of members ; but this result was long deferred , and for fully twenty years questions discussed related as before to the " morphological dignity " of the ien-sac , and of the ovule ; little difficulty was felt by certain authors in assigning : pollen-sacs to a different morphological category from the ovules ; many even held t the ovule might have a different morphological character in different cases .
:hs ( ' Lehrbuch , ' 4th ed. , p. 482 ) , after describing the various positions of the lies , writes : " If we apply general morphological definitions to these relations we \gt ; uld in the first of the above cases have ovules of an axile nature , they would be re metamorphosed caulomes ; where they arise below the apex of the floral axis , ; y would be regarded as metamorphosed leaves ; where they arise laterally out ol 3 margins of the carpels they would be viewed as metamorphosed pinnae , for t ose iich spring from the surface of the carpels there is no clear analogy with pure y getative structure , but we may here remember the sporangia of the Lycopodiac , rther , it even seems possible to regard many ovules , those of the Orchi es .
etamorphosed trichomes , as in the case ol the sporangia of Ferns and Hhizocarp Dme also held a similar view for the pollen-sac , asserting that while most stame ^present whole leaves , others are the result of metamorphosis of the axis itse iiCHLEft , * Bluthendiagramme/ p. 47 ) .
It will be unnecessary here to fo ow ou be controversies on these matters into their details ; the position ariived at y t os vFo admitted these divers morphological characters was , doubtless , due partlyto t e nfluence of Goethe , and of his theory of metamorphosis , partly to the e ect o \#166 ; jchleiden 's insistence on the importance of the study of development o e individual in the solution of questions in morphology .
Thus , the sporangium , whether it were that of a Vascular Cryptogam , or the pollen-sac or the ovule o a Phanerogam , was still considered as being borne by , or the morphological equiva ent of , some vegetative organ , according as it was found to be comparable to o another of these , as regards its position , and mode of origin.* This method of morphology takes into account the individual development* * rests on observations of ontogeny , but leaves out of account the opinions as to descent .
It was not likely that such a method should long stand unassailed afte evolution had come to be accepted .
Though Alex .
Braun had already ascribed to the ovule the uniform character of a bud , it was Strasburger who appears first to have approached the question of variable morphological value of stamens and ovules from a general point of view.t He lays down at once the principle that " it is the highest problem of morphology to explain the form of plants , but this problem can only be solved genealogically .
" Having thus made descent the foundation for his morphology , he pointed to the general uniformity of construction of ovules , and expressed the opinion that from the phylogenetic aspect it is not to be imagined that such organs could have been formed at different times , and in different ways .
He held that they were formed once only , among Phanerogamic plants , and have but one morphological character , viz. , that of a bud , of which the nucellus is the axis and the integuments leaves .
This opinion was shared by Eichler , | who also on the grounds of descent , believed that such a structure as the ovule must have throughout the same morphological character ; he too regarded it as a bud , assenting thereby to the position originally taken up by Goethe , .
It was , however , a decided advance to have introduced the idea of descent into the argument , and to have dismissed the views of variable morphological character of the sporangia ; but Strasburger did not follow his views out to their logical condusion ; the ovule , which is a megasporangium , is recognized by him as a bud ; it corresponds to the megasporangium of heterosporous Vascular Cryptogams ; are.they also metamorphosed buds ?
The megasporangium and microsporangium of such forms are believed to have originated by differentiation of a uniform type of sporangium , are then all sporangia buds ?
Even the pollen-sac is a sporangium ; is then a pollen-sac a bud ?
In order to be consistent this should be the interpretation of it by those believers in descent who also hold that the ovule is a bud .
Evidently Strasburger when writing his great work on the Coniferse and Gnetaceee was still imbued with the old idea of metamorphosis ; he still spoke of the three fundamental structures ( p. 441 ) , and obviously looked upon the sporangia of the higher plants as the result of metamorphosis of * Sachs , in his ' Lehrbuch , ' 4th ed. , which may he taken as fairly representing the spirit of the time of its publication ( 1874 ) , makes the general statement ( p. 153 ) that " every organ is either a stem ( axis ) , or leaf , or root , or hair .
" But it is especially remarked later ( p. 155 ) by way of limitation , that " the statement , " e.g. , that " the sporangia of Ferns are trichomes , only means that they arise , like all hairs , from epidermal cells ; hairs and Fern sporangia are in this respect morphologically equivalent .
Morphological equivalence is , in this sense , simply equivalence of development in the individual ; origin , by descent , is not taken into account in determining it .
t ' Coniferen und Gnetaceen , ' p. 396 , \amp ; c. | ' Bliithendiagramme , ' p. 45 .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
3 typically vegetative .
It remained for Goebel to take the next step towards the morphology of the sporangium on a sound basis : rejecting the view which been held all along , from the times of Wolef and Goethe , that in one form or her the sporangium is the result of metamorphosis of some part of the vegetative nn/ he plainly stated that the sporangium is not referable in its origin to any r category of members .
" As a shoot remains a shoot , and does not lose its ihological value ( dignity ) whether it arise as a lateral shoot on the growing t of a stem , or from the embryonic tissue of a foliage leaf ( as in-many Ferns ) , or dventitious on a root , \amp ; c. , so also a sporangium remains a sporangium and ing else , whatever its position ; sporangia are just as much organs sui generis as shoots , roots , \amp ; c."* le above conclusion opened a new page in the history of the morphology of the ophyte ; a position was thus attained which , for the first time , became intelligible i the point of view of descent .
Spore-production having been , as we must iv , a constantly recurring event during the whole course of evolution , and having eded the vegetative development of the sporophyte , it was not possible to under-d how the organs in which spore-production took place , could be merely the It of metamorphosis of those vegetative parts which , on grounds of phylogeny , e is every reason to believe were of later origin .
By rejecting the old opinions , recognizing the sporangium as an independent member , the way was at last red for a morphology based upon , or at least in harmony with , the conclusions as lescent , not upon the mere study of the development of the individual , he question as to the relative importance of observations of the ontogeny , and elusions as to phylogeny , is one of the most critical in all morphology , for on it ends the whole basis of the system ; provided the conclusions as to phylogeny be nd .
they should , in my opinion , have the precedence .
But in practice it has been tomary to hold the reverse , and to take the development of the individual the basis of morphological treatment , while such views on descent as are based on tiparison are often left practically out of account , or given only a secondary place , will be useful to dwell upon this point so that readers may enter upon the subse-3nt discussion with an open mind .
From the time of Goethe , observations of the development of the individual have d a strong influence upon morphological speculation .
His introduction of the terms ogressive and retrogressive metamorphosis , though they had at the time no clear waning as to descent , doubtless gave a bias in a certain direction .
Schleiden s insist-ee on the importance of developmental data turned the current of observation into at direction .
When evolution came to be recognized , and the embryology of animals as found to justify for them the acceptance of the recapitulation theory , Goethe s views ere read in a new light , and the successive phases of the individual life of the plant so naturally appeared to illustrate , in a measure , the history of its descent ; accordingly , * 'Bot .
Zeit .
, ' 1881 , p. 701 .
3 Q speaking at present only of the sporoptiyte of the higher plants , the cotyledons might be viewed as the earliest type of leaf , the foliage leaves the next , and finally , the floral leaves and sporophylls .
Any case of mere vegetative development of a sporophyli would be described , almost in the words of Goethe , as a sample of retrogressive metamorphosis , or in the language of descent , as a reversion .
A different position was taken up by the adherents of what has been termed the " differentiation theory " ; * for them the various forms of leaf are the result of differentiation of an original type : it was found that in their earliest developmental stages all leaves are virtually alike ; here , it was maintained , might be recognized the fundamental form which underlies all the various lateral organs , while the development of these organs themselves was accepted as in fact a real metamorphosis , a differentiation to subserve various functions .
The actual metamorphosis of one specialized organ into another was however denied ; thus to the adherents of this theory stamens are by no means metamorphosed foliage leaves .
Goebel , however , rightly points out " that such a metamorphosis of one form of leaf to another may occur , " and cites his own experiments , by which leaves , normally developing into scale-leaves , were transformed in the course of their individual growth into foliage leaves.t He further cites those interesting cases of the appearance of sporangia on leaves of Botrychium , which are normally green expanded foliage leaves , noting that , where the sporangia occur , the vegetative development is reduced : similar observations on Osmunda and Blechnum are also quoted , and from these the conclusion was drawn that " the sporophylls are metamorphosed foliage leaves " ; and still more explicitly it is stated for plants at large ( loc. p. 118 ) , " that the plant form ?
in the first instance leaves of only one type , the foliage leaves , though their growtt is often modified by influences which appear in the course of development .
" But the facts do not necessarily bear out the interpretation thus put upon them : what ii shown by such cases as that of Botrychium , or , or Osmunda , is simply that a correlation exists between spore-production and vegetative development : where sporangia are present the vegetative growth is arrested , where sporangia are absen : vegetative growth is more active : the further step that the sporophyll is a meta morphosed foliage leaf , and that the plant in the first instance forms only foliag leaves is an assumption , made in accordance with the custom of reading conclusion of phylogeny into the history \lt ; ?f the individual , but without sufficient regard fo wide-extended comparison .
I do not admit that the priority of the foliage leaf t the development of the individual shows its priority in the history of descent : tkes observations of correlation do not appear to me to touch the question of priority * evolution .
J I shall attempt to show on a basis of comparison of certain of the low Vascular Cryptogams that , in some cases at , foliage leaves may probably ha* * Hanstein , ' Beitr .
z. allg .
Morph , d. Pflanzen , ' 1882 , \amp ; c. f ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1880 , p. 753 , \amp ; c. , also Schenk 's ' Handbuoh , ' vol. 3 , p. 110 .
J On this subject , compare ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 7 , p. 373 .
the result of sterilization of sporophylls , and I have little doubt that this mode dein of foliage leaves has been a wide-spread one .
I should be slow , however , to e a general statement that either the one or the other was the original form of for all vascular plants , for the different lines of descent have probably been too reent to allow of a simple statement covering all cases : and it seems possible at least the primary leaves of the protocorm* may have originated in a different from other foliage leaves .
he idea of metamorphosis thus entertained by Goebel is primarily an ontogenetic but " it is extended by acceptance of the theory of descent .
" !
In my view it been customary to attach too great importance to observations of individual dopment , while too little attention has been devoted to broad comparison of the * forms of the sporophyte , and to the phylogenetic conclusions which may be based n such comparison ; these should serve as a guide , as well as a check , upon the irpretation of the individual development .
If the development of the mdividua .onstituted the chief basis of the morphology of the sporophyte , while the check nor general comparison be only slightly applied , the conclusion may be arrived that the first parts to appear were vegetative organs of simple type , then more mex vegetative organs , and that the spore-bearing members were of subsequent nn ; it might also be concluded , with Goebel , that the sporophyll is a metamor-\gt ; sed foliage leaf , or , in general terms , that spore-bearing members are the result of tamorphosis of pre-existent vegetative parts .
But such a conclusion is P am y onsistent with the story of the origin of the sporophyte , as it may be gathered m comparison of the lower archegoniate forms ; for in them the production o ires is present from the first , and appears eveu to have pi eceded the simp getative development .
In such a case as this , where conclusions from the study development are in antagonism to those derived from comparison , t e o old , in my opinion , give way to the latter .
Moreover , the custom of reading the development of the individual as illustrating ie phylogenetic history , is , at best , based only on expeiience of its trut in cei a , ses ; because the epitome is found to be often true , it cannot be argue t at 1 _ i always true .
In the rise of the sporophyte generation in archegoniate p an s , link we should hold , on grounds of broad comparison , that the development of e idividual sporophyte cannot be taken en bloc as illustrating the history o rigin of the sporophyte at large .
W^hile spore-production appears to have even a z tantly recurring fact from the first , comparison leads to the conclusion that the extens regetative phase which often precedes spore-production in the individual , was o m e ecent origin , appearing as an intercalated phase in the life-history .
Accor mg y seems to me improbable that a sporophyll is realty to be regarded phylogenetica y i metamorphosed foliage leaf ; the converse would appear more reasonable .
* Compare Treub , * Buitenzorg , Annals , ' vol. 8 , p. 1 t Loc.cit.yp .
113 .
The attempt must be made to formulate in the mind some idea of how the more complex forms of sporophyte came into being ; such an attempt it is now proposed to make , and to arrive , primarily on the basis of general comparison , and in the second place on the ground of individual development , at some idea how the progression from the simpler to the more complex forms of sporophy te may have taken place .
In briefly stating the main problem certain views will , as already intimated be assumed to be generally accepted ; they are as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
The homology of the sporophyte as a whole in such plants as show antithetic alternation .
2 .
The absence of any homology between the sporophyte and the gametophyte , or their parts .
3 .
The derivation of the sporophyte of vascular plants from some simpler form more or less like that of the lower Bryophyta .
4 .
The recurrence of spore-production as a constant event in each life-cycle , during evolution of archegoniate forms .
5 .
That , other things being equal , an increase in the number of spores produced is an advantage .
It is believed that all the above theses would be upheld by botanists at large .
The main problem is to frame a reasonable theory of the mode of derivation of the simpler vascular plants , with foliar appendages , and discrete archesporia , from forms with no appendicular organs , and an undivided or concrete archesporium .
There are at least three imaginable ways in which the numerous isolated spore-producing parts characteristic of vascular plants may have originated from simpler ancestors with concrete archesporium :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) By subdivision or partitioning of an original concrete archesporium , and outgrowth of the isolated fragments , together ' with the tissue surrounding them ; sterilization of a part of the sporogenous tissue might play an important part m bringing this about.* ( 2 .
) By branching of a sporogonium ( chorisis ) and duplication of the head , as is seen in some monstrous Moss-sporogonia .
( 3 .
) By a formation of entirely new archesporia at points where such were not present in forms believed to represent their ancestors ; such archesporia would have no direct connection by descent with pre-existent ones , but might in our view of sterilization be recognized as reversions .
It has been one object of the enquiry detailed below to see if among the lower vascular plants evidence can be found of any , or of all of these processes .
* It should here be remarked that the sub-division thus suggested may be further complicated by the continued apical or intercalary growth of the part concerned ; and , as in the development of shoots and leaves , the increase in number of appendicular parts may be closely connected with such continued growth , so , I conceive , may also the number of spore-producing members .
An application of this .will be found at p. 534 , \amp ; c.\#151 ; F.O.B. , February , 1894 .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
9 great gulf between the Bryophyta and the Vascular Cryptogams must be faced r or later .
It seems to me useless to turn away and say that the gulf is not bridged by hypotheses , and that the tracing of homologies in the sporophyte is ess , while our knowledge of the details of structure and development of those forms which we believe to be near the boundary line is still so far from being let .
It is true that direct connecting links are almost absent ; that fossils L jittle help , and cannot be expected to yield much in the way of developmental But the world 's surface has been almost completely over-run , without disclosing cent years new forms which would obviously take an intermediate place , so that uld be idle to wait indefinitely for the discovery of new forms to help us in the ion of the difficulty .
It , therefore , appears to me to be a duty to turn to the , vascular plants nearest to the border line , and endeavour , by careful compara-itudy of them , to add to the knowledge of their details , with a view to attaining sis for a reasonable hypothesis .
pursuing this investigation , it will be important to fix the attention on organisms r in the scale rather than on the higher forms ; for it is essential not to obscure ssues by irrelevant references to the parts of organisms higher in the scale , such 3 being often described by names which bear preconceived ideas with them ; Singly , notwithstanding the attractions which such comparisons present , allusions le Phanerogams will for the present be almost entirely omitted , and the applica-of the results obtained to the explanation of the forms of the higher plants will leferred to a future occasion .
The first step will accordingly be to briefly review l facts relating to the Algrn and Bryophyta as , being already m our possession , r have their bearing upon the main points of our enquiry .
Sterilization in the Alo^e and Bryophyta .
teference having been made above to the part played by sterilization in the elopment of the sporophyte in the Bryophyta , and its progiessive steps being re obvious in those plants than elsewhere , it will be well to examine the facts 3ady recognized in them , before proceeding to the study of the Vascular Cryp- ; ams .
There is good reason to believe that the latter were derived from some ^al-Bryophytic ancestry , so that observations of progressive elaboration in the gad and Bryophyta may be reasonably accepted as suggestive of similar pi ogress the course of evolution of vascular plants .
In the simplest plants showing antithetic alternation , viz. , certain Confervoidese , e zygote undergoes on germination a subdivision of its protoplasmic body into a imber of parts ; there is , however , no differentiation of these , all are alike capable acting as carpospores , and producing new individuals .
Differences may be recog-ized between different types as regards the presence or absence of cell-walls ; thus , i Oedoyonium or Sphceroplecc , the carpospores may be primordial cells , - while in Coleochcete they have a definite cell-membrane ; this is , however , promptly left bf\amp ; Lj by the escaping protoplasmic body .
In these Algae , the existence of the sporoph^ is barely sketched out , and the parts of it show no differentiation ; it is even aril question whether this rudimentary sporophyte of certain Algae be truly comparable with that of the Bryophyta ; but in any case it occupies the same position in the life cycle .
# Differentiation is , however , present even in the simplest Bryophytic forms , as in Riccia glauca , where the peripheral layer of cells constitutes a temporary wall round the undifferentiated mass of sporogenous cells within ( comp .
Kienitz- Gerloff , 'Bot Zeit./ 1874 , Plate 3 , figs. 1-6 ) .
Further steps in advancing complexity are illustrated in other Liverworts ; these may involve ( a ) sterilization of the whole transverse thickness of tissue of the sporogonium , proceeding from the base upwards , or in differentiation of cells of the potential sporogenous tissue which remains , and sterilization of certain of them .
In the rare genus , Oxymit the sporogonium is virtually similar to that of Riccia , but the cells of the wall appear to be less regular and definite , while certain of the cells of the sporogenous inner mass remain sterile , but without undergoing any special development ( Leitgeb , 'Lebermoose , ' Heft 4 , pp. 42-45 , \amp ; c. ) .
In Corsinia , also , such sterile cells are found , while here the complete sterilization of the lower part of the sporogonium shows a clear distinction of apex and base , which was absent in the earlier-named genera .
In Bosch the sterile cells among the spores take the elongated form , and spiral or annular thickening , appearing , when mature , as the well-known elaters .
Thus , within the Bicciese , both types of sterilization , ( and ( 6 ) , are initiated in the Marchantiacese these characters become more marked , the elaters especially being a prominent feature , and showing some regularity of arrangement .
As regards ( a ) , the sterilization of the whole thickness of tissue of the sporogonium this is found in Marchantia to involve the whole hypobasal half of the embryo , the result being a pad of sterile tissue of the foot ; but in Jungermannieae the hypobasa half remains small , while the epibasal half dividing into octants , each of thest undergoes repeated transverse division and great elongation ; all the lower par of the tissue thus produced is vegetative , while the spore-production is confined to one or two tiers of ceils at the apex .
Here , then , is extensive sterilizatioi extending far upwards into the body of the sporogonium\#151 ; an intercalation of ai intermediate vegetative stage between the zygote and spore-production .
In tli remaining family , viz. , the Anthocerotese , the case as regards the type ( a ) of steo lization appears very similar to that in the Marchantiacese , only the hypobast portion of the embryo being completely sterile throughout the whole transvers section , and forming the enlarged haustorial foot .
Turning to the type of sterilization ( 6 ) , viz. , differentiation of the potential spore * It may be a question whether the genera of Algae and Liverworts quoted really illustrate the .
phylogenetic origin .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
is tissue and sterilization of certain of the differentiated parts , we see considerable Mices in the disposition of the sterile parts .
In the simplest cases the sterile do not differ from early arrested spore-mother-cells ; or they may angated and specially thickened , as elaters ; these may be arranged with no irity ( Boschia ) , or they may radiate from the basal limit of the capsule chantia ) ; or project almost horizontally inwards from the wall of the spherical ( Junqermannia trichophylla , Hofmeister , ' Higher Cryptog .
, ' Plate 9 , fig. 33 ) ; sy may appear as vertical rods or trabeculm passing from the outer wall to the of the cavity ( Frullcmiadilatata , Hofmeister , Joe .
cit. , Plate 12 , fig. 9 , or nia serpyllifolia , Leitgeb , loc. cit. , Heft 1 , Plate 1 , fig. 14 ) .
the examples hitherto cited there is no association of the sterile elaters in masses ; s seen to occur , however , in various genera , and with interesting differences of 1 Hofmeister ( ' Higher Cryptog .
, ' p. 38 ) , in describing the head of the igonium of Pellia epiphylla , remarks that " a whole string of cells lying in the tudinal axis of the young fruit assumes this spindle form ; around this string t e of the cells destined to form elaters are arranged , radiating upwards .
Heitgeb bermoose , ' Heft 3 , p. 57 ) points out that this axile strand does not extend .erthan about two-thirds of the distance from the base upwards through the , y of the capsule ; he also recognizes that the strand consists of group e aters .
lertain other genera ( Metzgeria and Aneum ) a somewhat similar arrangement und , but in an inverted position .
Leitgeb states ( loc. at .
, p. 31 ) that m Metz-r a group of cells at the apex , situated in contact with the wall of the capsule , is ited in its growth without being transformed either into elaters or spore-mot er-and , again , on p. 40 , " the rows of spore-mother-cells and elaters do rerge to a point at the apex , but to a group of cells below it , composed of cubical , , and there is no doubt that these correspond to the original internal cells of the er storey of the spore-producing space .
" In Aneura* also a somewhat similar tral sterile mass is found attached to the wall at the apex of the sporogomum , extending for a distance down into the spore-cavity as a solid column , but finally nching off into numerous separate elaters .
In Aneura pinguu the relatively large rogonium has a well-defined columella of sufficient size to be easily seen wit led eye , and extending two-thirds down the cavity of the spoiogonium .
m iltifida the sporogonium is smaller , and the columella is represents on y nute mass of cells , projecting downwards about one-eighth of the distance ts .
fP \#163 ; 3 cavity : from these incomplete columella-like masses the elaters ra late irds into the mass of spores .
The transition from the parenchymatous c\#174 ; _ 8 _ lumella to typical , spindle-shaped , spirally-thickened elaters is beautifully 1 us r ^ A. multifida , and may also be traced , though not with the same completeness , in .
pinguis : In these sporogonia also it would appear that the columella is t e * I am indebted to Professor Fahmeu for sections illustrating these points in Aneura , and f .
' ^ iy attention to them .
of massing together of sterile elaters , and it is to be noted not only that the coWl is larger and more complete in the species having the larger sporogonium but also that the columella is more elaborate here than in the examples previort ' quoted.* These very interesting cases of apparent grouping of the elaters to form a solid sterile axile strand , extending part way through the cavity , or even a sterile mass of ordinary cells , not developed as elaters , depending from the apex , appear to me to illustrate a matter of some importance .
I think we may recognize in them imperfect steps towards the formation of a complete columella in the centre of the capsule , and see therein illustrated how , by the collection of sterile cells , isolated and uniformly diffused in other types , into a central position , a solid column of such tissue maybe the result ; such columns are here incomplete , but they suffice to suggest a possible mode of advance in sterilization , and it will be seen that this idea had not escaped the mind of Leitgeb .
In the Anthocerotese the sporogonium attains a greater complexity than in other Hepaticae , but it is not uniform in the different genera , and the variations in structure have made them the subject of a careful discussion by Leitgeb ( ' Lebermoose .
' Heft 5 ) , from which the following facts and quotations are extracted .
In the more complex genera , Anthocerosand Dendroceros , the lower part of the sporogonium is developed as a foot , which keeps up physiological connection with the gametophy te ; there is no seta , but the whole of the upper part of the sporogonium is composed of a columella , round which , and arched like a dome over its extreme apex , is the sporogenous layer , while the sporogonial wall , of several layers , covers this externally .
The central cells , formed by periclinal division from each transverse tier of four in the young embryo , are entirely converted into the columella , the sporogenous layer being cut off from the outer cells by their first periclinal division .
But of the sporogenous layer itself the majority of cells are sterile , while only the minority produce spores ; the sterile cells in many species form a connected network , in the meshes of which the spore-mother-cells lie ( .
cit. .
p. 6 ) .
The intercalary growth at the base of the sporogonium is apparently unlimited .
In the genus Notothylas not only are the characters different from the above , but there is also a most interesting variation in structure within the genus itself .
The intercalary growth appears to be limited , when the limit occurs early , dwarf capsules , which are found in all species , are the result ; sometimes , however , the growth is long continued .
In certain species some of the capsules are like those of as regards the columella ; but " in all species of Notothylas capsules are found , in which a columella is present it is true , but the cells of the columella are quite similarly * This genus has already been treated by Leclerc de Sablon ( 'Ann .
Sci. Not .
, ' 7 th Series , tol .
2 , p. 161 ) , and excellent figures given , illustrating the structure of the columella ( Plate 11 , fig. 46 ) .
^ e also gives details of various other Liverworts ; those relating to Frullania will most claim our attention ( see below , p. 557 ) .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
'd to the other sterile cells of the capsule-cavity , and are very easily separable , tigation of such capsules shows that the columella is not formed independently as xlhoceros , and " separately from the spore-bearing layers , but arises by secondary entiation within the spore-bearing space , and thus coincides in this respect with olumella of the Moss-capsule " ( Leitgeb , 4 Leber moose/ vol. 5 , p. 7 ) .
" But in species of Notothylas ( perhaps in all ?
) , there are also capsules in which the lella is absent from the first ; the sterile cells together form a connected tissue , work which uniformly fills the whole cavity of the capsule ... It is instruc-that such capsules differ only by gradual steps from these with a columella i have just been described .
" . . .
" By the formation of such columella-less les Notothylasis directly connected with other Liverworts .
" ( Leitgeb , loc. cit. , I , p. 8 .
) f now , as I have endeavoured to show as probable , Notothylas be regarded as a related to the Jungermanniacese , this must clearly be the case also for all the Locerotese , which are directly allied with Notothylas , and are doubtless descended a similar form .
The sterile cells at first uniformly distributed through the e spore-cavity , though connected together , first united at the axis of the capsule \gt ; rm a strand of cells the elements of which were not as yet different from rest of the sterile cells .
As above noted , such capsules are still found in \gt ; thylas .
Probably the next step was that the mode of development of the cells posing the axile strand differed from that of the cells outside , in the spore-cavity .
\gt ; ably this form also is present in Notothylas , and I refer to the capsules desciibed re which show a development of the columella similar to that of [ TGEB , IOC .
dt .
, p. 10 .
) i the passages thus quoted , Leitgeb 's view of the progression of sterilization in Anthocerotese is quite plainly stated ; he distinctly recognizes the association of ile cells together to form sterile masses as exemplined by the columella , similar ugh less complete examples have been above cited in Ancuva , and 'zgeria , and we shall conclude that such association has been a feature in the ance of structure of the sporogonia in various genera of Hepaticse .
here is one further point as regards the Anthocerotese which will be of theoretical Brest : of the products of the sporogenous layer the majority of cells are sterile , w it is quite possible and conceivable , after what has been noted above , that these rile cells might further be associated together to form septa , which would thus rtition off the sporogenous cells into separate compartments .
We have no example this among Bryophyta , but it would be the next natural step in continuation of e sterilizing process above traced .
The Mosses present fewer points of interest in this connection ; a certain irallelism may be traced with what has been described above a progression of \gt ; mplexity from the simpler types of Phascacese to the Bryinese ; and again it may \amp ; noted that whereas the archesporium in Sphagnum is of a closed dome-like form , mdcccxciv.\#151 ; b. 3 n that of the Bryineae is like a barrel open at the ends , and it may be suggested that this latter condition is the result of sterilization of the apical part .
But in the Mosses the whole sporogenous layer bears spores ; sterile cells appear to be absent from it , and if the potentialities of further development of those sterile cells be such as have been suggested in the previous paragraphs , then such potentialities will not have a place among the present living Mosses .
From a theoretical point of view however , the differences in place of origin of the archesporium are important ; in Sphagnum it is derived from the amphithecium , in most Mosses it originates from the endothecium , and a similar difference of detail being also seen in the Antho-cerotece , we have good reason to conclude that the actual layer which gives rise to the archesporium is not to be strictly defined for all Bryophyta , we shall thus be prepared to think it possible that the spore-production might be relegated to still more superficial positions in other plants , as is actually the case in the Vascular Cryptogams .
The elaboration of form of the capsules of some Mosses is interesting , as showing organisms making the best of a type of construction which is essentially unfitted for carrying on assimilation on a considerable scale .
The whole sporogonium of Anthoceros is green , and can assimilate , though in most Liverworts assimilation is carried on only in a minor degree in the sporogonium , or not at all ; and even in Anthoceros there is no specialization of form , and little specialization of structure to this end .
In certain Mosses , however , there is more specialized structure : the seta usually contains little chlorophyll , but the head of the sporogonium , and especially the outgrowth of the apophysis where present , is the part in which assimilation is most active .
The development of the apophysis for this purpose reaches its highest type in Splachnum lutewm ( compare Vaizey , ' Annals of Botany/ 5 , p. 1 ) , in which it appears as an expanded disc , bearing numerous stomata , and filled internally with spongy chlorophyll-containing parenchyma .
This is the most elaborate type of construction for assimilating purposes seen in the sporophyte of Bryophyta , and it is clearly the result of a comparatively slight modification of parts , already sterile , of the ordinary type of sporogonium .
, In the above paragraphs some of the main phenomena of advance in the sporogonium of the Bryophyta have been briefly described , and it seems probable that progressive sterilization of sporogonous cells and progress of complexity of the sporogonium have gone hand in hand .
As we recognize that vascular plantg probably originated from some Algal-Bryophytic ancestry , it will be useful to carry forward to the study of the former clear ideas of the modifications which appear to have played a part in the advance of the Bryophyta .
It is possible that there may be no homologies , possibly only slight analogies , but we should at least prepare ourselves to appreciate them if they exist .
The comparative study of the sporophyte of the Bryophyta leads to conclusion !
which may be formulated as follows :\#151 ; iff _ _ ... ... ... ... ... .
I \gt ; fhere is evidence of the sterilization of potential sporogenous cells , and the first ml was probably the formation of a protective peripheral wall ( Riccia ) .
I Bin the space within this wall other , sterile cells may be dispersed among the \gt ; r^enous cells ( elaters , \amp ; c. ) .
II Sterile cells similar to those thus isolated may in some forms be grouped \#166 ; eter , producing coherent sterile masses of tissue ( columella of , lOra , and Anthocerotese ) .
IH jn ap the more complex forms a central sterile columella exists , while the m originate from a definite band outside it ( the archesporium ) .
M| The position of this band is not constant , originating sometimes more deeply , at i6Stimes being nearer the surface .
\ff The archesporium may give rise to both sterile and fertile cells VjL In the lower part of the sporogonium a complete sterilization of the whole tiiess of the sporogonium may be seen .
This involves , first , the hypobasal half of - mbryo , as in Marchantiacese ; or , progressing to successively higher tiers of cells tjfe epibasal half , forms the sterile seta of the Jungermanniese .
VIII .
Intercalary growth may play a prominent part both in the sterile ( !
mia ) and in the fertile parts { Anthoceros ) .
4 Elaboration of external form is suggested { Polytrichum , ) , but never i-fed far .
J Assimilation may be actively pursued in the sterile tissues , either in those of ereta ( including the apophysis , Splachnum , \amp ; c. ) , or in the fertile part of the sporo-mm ( capsule of Anthoceros and most Mosses ) .
X. Differentiation of tissues is fairly advanced in the seta of some Mosses .
low under the above heads are included those features which , if collectively i*6ent in one organism , might lead to the production of such more elaborate forms of lot as are seen in the lower vascular plants , except two , and they are prominent ae , viz.:\#151 ; ] The formation of appendicular organs .
I. The subdivision of the archesporial layer to form isolated patches , instead of one ofinuous tissue .
fVith regard to the former\#151 ; the origin of appendicular organs\#151 ; we are still in the iak , though various suggestions have been made .
In approaching this difficult iustion , I wish it to be understood that the criticisms and suggestions now to be nde are offered only in the most tentative way , while it will remain to be seen how aathey may be supported by the developmental facts to be described below .
Most of the hypotheses hitherto advanced have been based upon the belief tht it is in the Filicineous series that the nearest point of contact between living Oscular Cryptogams and Bryophyta is to be found .
For instance , Kienitz-Cerloff \'Bot .
Zeit./ 1878 , p. 55 ) , in putting forward his suggestion that the head of the Moss-sporogonium is foliar in its nature , while the axis is rudimentary and is r sented only by one quadrant of the upper half of the zygote , which later takes ' in the formation of the foot , draws his detailed comparison with the Fernl^ ( pp. 55-56 ) .
Again , Prantl ( ' Unters .
z. Morph , d. Gefasskrypt .
, ' Heft l , p. 62 discussed the matter from the point of view of a comparison bet ween Moss-fruits an ] the simplest imaginable Fern plant .
Leitgeb was , however , more cautious ( loc \lt ; # Heft 6 , p. 61 ) , though he seems to have had comparatively large-leaved forms in his mind when he wrote as follows :\#151 ; " I believe that this much is certain : if we would trace the spore-forming generation of the Vascular Cryptogams from Liverwort-sporogonia , we must designate the cotyledons as the homologues of the latter , upon which at first the spore-formation must have been carried out , until , when the embryonic branching , ie .
, the formation of the stem and its lateral members ( leaves ) took place , it passed over to the latter .
" Very much the same view was entertained by Naegeli ( ' Abstammungslehre .
' p. 476 ) .
Starting from the consideration of the steps of advance of the sporogonium of Liverworts , and distinction of a vegetative base from the sporogonial head , he discussed the mode of elaboration of the latter , suggesting it as possible that the apex became vegetative , " and that the sporogonium .
developed as a lateral outgrowth on the apex ; further that this sporogonium by further modification ... .
developed into the leaf-bearing stem .
" But he contemplated it also as possible " that the thallome-like sporogonium , as it became vegetative , may have extended directly ( without a preliminary lateral branching ) to the leafy stem .
" He further recalls the fact that branching occasionally occurs in Moss-sporogonia , and suggests that this may have recurred repeatedly , in connection with continued apical growth of the whole .
" With the continued growth of the sporogonium in length , the spore-producing portion of it behind the apex is raised aloft , so that a stalked sporogonium is the result .
The lateral branches are also fertile , and develop as sessile sporogonia .
Thus a strobiloid sporogonial system arises which is either the direct continuation of the original thalloid body , or if , as was first assumed , a lateral sporogonium was produced by branching , a lateral continuation pf it " ( p. 477 ) .
He then suggests how the sporogonia may have increased in size , and partially passed over to the vegetative state , their main body becoming leaf-like , while the spore-production is limited to a part of them : the result would be a leafy axis , of which all the leaves would be sporophylls , a condition not unlike that of Lycopodium .
The idea of Naegeli ( as embodied in his 'Abstammungslehre , ' pp. 475-479 ) refers the elaboration of the sporogonium so as to form the leafy shoot to some form of branching : in this it does not differ from the other theories above referred to ; in all of them the origin of foliar members has been imagined as some process comparable to such branching of sporogonia , as is sometimes seen in abnormal cases .
In all of them the apex of a is assumed to represent the apex of a sporogonium , or of some branch of a sporogonium .
I think that the origin of this idea is to be found in the assumption so often made that the JL point of contact with the Bryophyta is to be sought among the Ferns , oltho Filicineous leaf , even in its simplest forms , is a highly organized foliar Jure .
in many ways the leaves of Ferns are peculiar , while in their higher Jmments they attain such complexity as is hardly equalled in the vegetable , aom It appears to me improbable that even the simpler types of the Filicineous alill serve as indications of the origin of the foliar development exhibited in other isilar plants .
I think it is rather among those series of homosporous Ptendophyta , icfLs the Lycopodinese and Equisetinese , in which a simpler type of leaf is the rule , liilche inquiry may be pursued with better prospect of success .
Iw the Lycopodinese and Equisetineie are types , in which the vegetative Ja and sporophylls are relatively small , and the axis relatively large ; while the \#166 ; ais are closely associated together in large numbers on the axis .
The sporophylls sJly bear but few sporangia , and neither vegetative leaves nor sporophylls show \#166 ; rized or continued apical growth in any marked degree .
It has become the prac-Lcln recent years to treat the shoot\#151 ; whether sterile or fertile\#151 ; as a , whole ( Sachs ; .etures , ' p. 3 ) , of which the axis and leaves are component parts .
This thoroughly o|d practice is more obviously advantageous in cases where the axis is relatively irk and the leaves relatively small and crowded , and it will assist us m our discussion ifiiese strobiloid Pteridophyta . ?
the theories of origin of foliar members above cited , except perhaps Naegeli s , s^med that the apex of the sporogonium represents the apex of the coming plophyll , while the axis originated either as a somewhat similar branch , or as a atjral bud in some way not always strictly defined .
As the result of comparative jtly of Bryophyta and Vascular Cryptogams , I would now put forward as a working ijfothesis , that in the strobiloid Pteridophyta the apex of the sporogonium is the Relative of the apex of the strobilus .
The result of this would be that the appen-iMar organs would all have been of lateral , appearing as an eruption of upgrowths , probably unimportant at first , from the surface of the relatively prepon-dtating axis .
Such branching of the sporogonium as occasionally is seen would find 11|correlative , not in the formation of leaves , but in the terminal branching of the shot or strobilus , as in Lycopodium , or rarely in the strobilus of Equisetum ^crogene Verzweigung , " Naegeli , 1 , loc. c , p. 478 ) .
As in the higher Bryophyta , sin the strobiloid Pteridophyta , a distinction is commonly found between vegetative ad spore-bearing regions of the sporophyte ; the seta of the former may then be the ^.relative of the vegetative region of the latter , while the sporogonial head would errespond to the whole strobilus .
i It would be premature to discuss details of origin of the appendicular organs , but on te view above sketched , it would appear possible that these should originate , not only iom the sporogonial head ( as sporophylls ) , but also from the sterile legion ( as vegetative laves ) , and these two types of foliar organs may have been produced independently of 494 PROFESSOR F. 0 .
BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY one another , while a further addition to the vegetative region might be mad !
\#187 ; .
sterilization of sporophylls .
( See below , p. 535 , \amp ; c. ) I only know of one previous suggestion of such a nature as the above ; it was my by the late Mr. Yaizey , in a very tentative way ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 45 , p jg|\ in connection with his work on the apophysis of Splachnum He wrote as follows : " That the apophysis performs the functions of a leaf , and is , therefore analogous with the leaves of vascular plants , I think there can now be no doubt , and as this structure is a development of the sporophyte , the possibility of its being also homologous , either directly or indirectly , suggests itself .
I am myself inclined to believe that the two are homologous .
" While admitting the analogy thus brought forward , I am not prepared to contend for the actual homology of the apophysis with a leaf or leaf-sheath .
But I think we should do wrongly if we neglect to recognize that there is here , at least , a suggestion how a foliar development such as that of Equisetummay have taken its origin .
If such sheaths were produced in large numbers in the lower vegetative region of a sporogonium , something like the simple shoot of Equisetum might be the result .
A similar development in the sporogonial head might produce the strobilus .
This view would harmonize readily with the embryology of Equisetum as described by Sadebeck , 'Pringsh .
Jahrb .
, ' vol. 11 ; and by Buchtien ' Bibliotheca Botanica , ' No. 8 , 1887 .
But such development as this would involve the second prominent feature which we above noted aswanting among the Bryophyta ( above , p. 491 ) , viz. , ( 2 ) the subdivision of the archesporial layer to form isolated patches , instead of one continuous tissue .
Is there any reason to think such a subdivision probable , and how could it take place ?
To answer this question recourse must be had to comparison of certain details of spore-production in the Bryophyta , and in the Vascular Cryptogams ; the former are already provided by the researches of Leitgeb , while I hope to add to the latter in subsequent pages .
The full discussion of this subject must , therefore , come at the end of this memoir ; but in the meanwhile certain facts and conclusions from study of the Bryophyta may be considered .
It has been seen that sterile cells ( elaters ) in certain Liverworts appear to be massed together , and form solid tissues , as in the case of the columella ; it is , therefore , reasonable to expect that some similar process may occur again in such Liverworts , or other plants , as show sterile cells scattered through their sporogenous masses .
Now the Anthocerotece have by various writers been recognized as plants whose sporophyte approaches that of vascular plants more than that of other Bryophyta ( Leitgeb , loc. .
* Heft 6 , p. 60 ; Prantl , loc. dt .
, Heft 1 , p. 62 ) .
In these plants a large proportion of the cells produced from the archesporium are sterile , and it would thus appear that a formation of sterile septa might be expected to result from a process of massing of these , such as is shown by Leitgeb to have produced the columella .
But while noting this , I would not be understood to use it as more than an illustration , for I do not suppose that any living Bryophyte really represents the progenitors of vascular plants .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
us we see that certain of the factors which might lead to the production of a complex type of sporophyte are represented in living Bryophytes .
I next step will be , bearing these facts in mind , to inquire whether on the other \gt ; f the gulf , i.e. , among the lower vascular plants , characters of a similar nature are observed , and we shall look for evidence in answer to the following questions ) Are sterile cells distributed among the sporogenous cells in any Vascular Crypqs ?
) Do any Vascular Cryptogams show a distinct part which may be correlated *sition , structure , development , and function with the sporogonial head of the phyta ?
) Are the sporangia ever borne in such relation to one another as to suggest a ion origin by sub-division of simpler parts ?
) Is there direct evidence in any Vascular Cryptogams of conversion of potential .genous tissue into masses of sterile tissue , or conversely of conversion of sterile k into spore-producing cells ?
am quite aware that , even if all these questions were answered by abundant mce in the affirmative , this would not afford complete proof of the mode of mt of Vascular Cryptogams from simpler Bryophytic forms .
Few biological ( theses are completely proved , or even susceptible of proof , under the present r of nature .
But what I submit is , that the search for answers to such questions ae above may , in the light of the facts already derived from the study of the \gt ; phyta , go far to support the working hypothesis above sketched in its broad nes , and raise it to the position of a reasonably probable theory .
EQUISETUM .
he first detailed account of the development of the strobilus and sporangia of lisetum was given by Hofmeister for E. ( " Higher Cryptogamia , Ray p. 280 , PI .
36 ) ; his results were in the main adopted and verified by Russow ergl .
Unters./ p. 147 , and PI .
9 ) , but , as .
regards the origin and early history of sporangium , the investigations of the latter add little to the facts already acquired Hofmeister .
A point of difference between these two writers is in the reference he sporangium , as regards its origin , to a single parent cell .
Hofmeister speaks he shields ( sporangiophores ) exhibiting " at five or six points a rapid cell-multipli-ion , produced by the division of one of the cells of the under surface of the shield , 1 he appears to refer the whole of each sporangium to original cell .
It will be m that the essential part of the sporangium , viz. , the sporogenous tissue , is refer-le in most cases with certainty to the successive segmentations of a single original 11 , but the sporangium as a whole is of the eusporangiate type ; this was recognized .
r Russow , and does not now admit of any doubt .
The most accurate examination of the sporangiophores and sporangia of 496 PROFESSOR F. O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY hitherto made has been by Goebel , his illustrations being taken from Urm* , ( 'Bot .
Zeit .
, ' 1880 , p. 549 , PL 8 , figs. 2-6 ; also , 1881 , PI .
6 , fig. 1 ) .
The two ^ important of these are quoted in his * Grundztige , ' as fig. 223a and 223b ( but xxv^ the name of E.palustre ) ; in these figures , the archesporial cells are shaded so as I distinguish them .
It has always been a difficulty to me to accept the story development , as stated by Goebel ; the earlier stage ( ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1881 , PI .
6 , fig !
quoted as ' Grundziige , ' fig. 223a ) shows an archesporium consisting of only one cell which is covered externally by two relatively deep cells , one of which is superficial ' the later stage ( fig. 223b ) , shows the sporogenous cells , eight in number , covered at the apex by three relatively shallow cells , which do not together measure a greater depth than the one superficial cell of the earlier figure .
Assuming the figures to be drawn under 4he same magnifying power ( on which point I find no statement in the original paper , or in the ' Grundzuge ' ) , it would seem either that the cells overlying the archesporium contract and become shallower as development proceeds , or that the recognition of the archesporium as a single cell in the earlier stage ( fig. 223a ) is at fault .
Moreover , the history of development , as illustrated by the figures , is far from complete .
In order to give a satisfactory account of so bulky a structure , it should be cut in three directions , radially , tangentially , and transversely , at different stages , but this was not done by Goebel .
It thus appears that there is need of a re-examination of development of the sporangia of E Equisetum arvense L. ( figs. 1-9 ) .
The results yielded by a study of E. arvense have afforded a more complete account of the early phases of development than in other species , and they will be described first .
E. limosum has also been examined for purposes of comparison with Goebel 's results and with the data from E. arvense .
It will be seen that the details in the latter species are liable to considerable variation , and differ in some points from the more regular E. arvense .
Badial sections through the very young strobilus of the last-named species show that the sporangiophores arise as already described by Hoemeister , Bussow , and Goebel ; they appear as ring-like outgrowths , which , in the longitudinal section , involve a considerable number of cells , with a fan-like tracery .
Comparing those of E. arvense ( fig. 1 ) with those of E. limosum ( see Goebel , 'Bot .
Zeit .
, ' 1880 , Plate 8 , fig. 2 ) , the former are of a more bulky character , and this will be found the case also with the sporangia of the species .
As in E. limosum , the tissues of the sporangiophore , when cut in radial section , are referable to the outgrowth of six cells , but many more anticlinal divisions appear in these before the convex outgrowth is considerable , than is the case in E. limosum ( compare Goebel , 'Bot .
Zeit .
, ' 1880 , Plate 8 , fig. 2 ) .
Accordingly the sporangiophore of E. arvense is from the first of a more massive type than in E. limosum .
In the larger sporangiophore shown in fig. 1 it is believed that the OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
marked ( \#169 ; ) are correctly recognized as those which will give rise to the essential of two sporangia ; it will be observed that these cells occupy corresponding ons on either side of the sporangiophore , adjoining the anticlinals 1 and 5 .
be sporangiophores grow older the anticlinals become more strongly curved , r to the more active growth of the central parts , while the sporangiophores of ssive series coming in contact press upon one another , and their sides become ned .
Growth of the future sporangia now becomes more rapid , so that they to project ( fig. 2 ) , while cell-divisions rapidly succeed one another .
The succes-md exact position of their walls is liable to some variation , as is almost always as in the development of large cell-masses .
The description now given is that b is found to be most typical , and it will be seen that a single cell is the ultimate , it of the essential parts of the sporangium ; such a cell is shown , still undivided , r. 1 , adjoining the anticlinal 5 , in the larger sporangiophore .
The first division in cell is by a periclinal wall ( fig. l ) separating an inner cell ( shaded ) from an outer the inner cell is divided first by anticlinal walls a.t right angles to one another pare figs. 2 , 3 , and 7 ) into four , and subsequently by periclinal walls into eight , which form the lower part of the sporogenous tissue .
But this is not the whole le tissue from which spores are formed ; a comparison of older stages ( figs. 3 , 4 , ) shows that , by subdivision of the outer of the two original cells , shown in fig. 1 , tions are made to the sporogenous tissue ; these appear in the following way .
outer cell usually divides by crossed anticlinal walls ( figs. 2 , 3 , 7 , and 8 ) , which are eeded by periclinals ( figs. 3 , 7 ) ; the inner cells thus formed are added to the ogenous tissue , while the outer form the apical part of the wall of the sporangium the tapetum ; a careful comparison of figs. 1-7 will show that the sporogenous ie is not limited by the first periclinal wall , but that cells derived from part of the 3r of the two original cells form an essential part of the sporogenous mass ; these 3 are marked with a cross ( X ) in all the figures .
In order to obtain tangential ions , which shall traverse the axis of the obliquely placed sporangium , the direc-l of section must be slightly inclined ; such a section is seen in fig. 7 , in which the -tracery corresponds in all essential points to that of fig. 4 ; it further demonstrates v slight as yet is the projection of the individual sporangia beyond the margin of s sporangiophore , as is shown by the gentle curve of the surface above the apex of i sporangium .
Owing to this very slight projection of the young sporangium , and its oblique 3ition , transverse sections are not easily obtained in the very young state , but when 3 sporangium has attained the size and development of fig. 6 , a , transverse section ows plainly enough the relations of its parts ( fig. 9 ) ; the sporogenous tissue which shaded is readily referable in its origin to the segmentation of a single cell of the msverse section ; certain cells of the adjoining tissue develop of large size , and ith dense protoplasmic contents , and it has been difficult to decide whether there be \gt ; t also an addition to the sporogenous tissues from such lateral cells ; some longi-mbcccxciv.\#151 ; b. 3 S tudinal sections appear to support this idea , but it has never been possible to n ?
0v beyond doubt that any such additions to the sporogenous tissue really take pl^ however , of the additions from segmentation of the outer of the two original ce}j* ( fig. 1 ) there cannot be any question after comparison of figs. 1-8 .
It is interesting to compare these results with Russow 's drawings ( ' Yergl .
Unters ' Plate 9 ) ; his fig. 179 shows on the left side a sporangium of age intermediate between my figs. 1 and 2 , and with virtually the same structure ; while his fig. 177 corresponds substantially , though not in the minute details , with my fig. 3 .
Such correspondence though not surprising seeing that the drawings refer to the same species ( arvense ) is certainly satisfactory .
After the sporogenous tissue has been thus laid down , the cells which lie above it divide by perihlinal and anticlinal walls ; some four or five layers of cells are thus formed ( fig. 6 ) , of which the outermost develops as the apical part of the wall of the sporangium , the rest of the wall being contributed by the superficial cells of the lateral parts of the sporangium ; the cells directly surrounding the sporogenous mass assume the characters of a tapetum , while the intermediate cells become gradually compressed and finally disappear without any special modifications , as the period of maturity of the sporangium approaches .
These later phases of the development having been more carefully followed in E. we may now proceed to examine the results of investigation of that species .
Equisetum limosum , L. ( figs. 10-21 ) .
It has been already shown that Goebel 's account of the development in this species leaves some points uncertain ; this is probably due in part to the very considerable variations of detail of the sporangia even in the same strohilus ; how great those variations may be is shown by fig. 10 , which represents three sporangia in juxtaposition with one another { a , b , c ) , together with the stalks of the sporangio-phores which bore them ( sp. ) ; not only is there a great difference in size and outline of these sporangia , but also in the number of the sporogenous cells as seen m the transverse section , and even in the number of layers of cells composing the wall .
Such variations of detail naturally increase the difficulties of tracing the course of development .
The earliest stages of growth have not been seen in E. limosum ; but this is immaterial after the observations on E. arvense , and in face of Goebel 's drawing ( ' JBot .
Zeit .
, ' 1881 , PI .
6 , fig. 1 ) ; for there is no reason to doubt the correctness of the cell-net there shown , in what is obviously a median section .
The only question is the correctness of recognition of the archesporium : it will be seen from a study ot older sections that the second cell , immediately overlying the shaded archesporial cell of Goebel 's figure , should also be reckoned a part of the archesporium , ns jP OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
499 \#166 ; vense , this cell is added to the first archespovial cell , and originates by a subse- .
periclinal segmentation of the superficial cell .
e sporangia of E. limosum are usually less bulky than those of E. : their is commonly more pointed , and the archesporial series may remain for a condole time undivided by longitudinal walls : this is suggested by Goebel 's figure ; Zeit .
, ' 1880 , PL 8 , fig. 3 ) , and is conspicuously the case with fig. U , in which irchesporium consists of only a single row of three cells ; such an appearance 1 be presented by the sporangium ( a ) fig. 10 , if cut through radially .
Other neia show the archesporium as a double row ( as in fig. 12 ) ; it is to be noted that the apical limits of the two rows do not exactly coincide , the row next the ngiophore being longer than that more remote from it .
Lastly , the sporangium n in fig. 13 resembles more nearly the type of E. arvense , as regards the regu-r of segmentation of the apical part of its sporogenous tissue , though the basal egular ; it also has a rounded apex ; the cells marked ( ?
) , adjoining the sporo-us tissue laterally , are of large size , and have dense protoplasm ; it is possible they may be lateral additions to the sporogenous tissue , but such additions have \gt ; een definitely proved to take place .
Of older sporangia cut radially , two extreme iples have been drawn ; of these , fig. 14 is of the more pointed type , and comes near the apex of the strobilus ; it will be noted that the limits of the sporo , \gt ; us tissue on either side of the median line are unequal , ana that , as in fig. 12 , sporogenous tissue is more extensive on the side next the sporangiophore than on , which is more remote ; the result is a very irregular disposition of the tissues irds the apex .
The other example ( fig. 15 ) shows a very bulky sporangium wit id rounded apex : this comes from the lowest tier of sporangiophores , and directly \gt ; ins the annulus .
The segmentation has here been very regular , and con o \#166 ; e nearly to that of E. arvense than does that of the large majority of the sporangia 1 IffllOSUTYl )f the tangential sections those shown in figs. 16 , 17 , 18 were from the same ibilus as the radial sections , figs. 11,12 , 13 .
Fig. 16 represents one of the simpler \gt ; es of sporangium , in which the sporogenous tissue consists in part of on y a s g ir of cells .
Figs. 17 and 18 are of a more bulky type , especially the latter , while , addition to the sporogenous tissue which is shaded , the cells marked ( .
) are o c erable size and contain dense protoplasm ; it is here again a matter of doubt letber cells of other genetic rows are not added laterally to the sporogenous rived from the median row .
Fig- 19 represents a rather older sporangium o ore bulky type , from the same strobilus as those drawn in transverse section m 10 , and in longitudinal section in figs. 14 and 15 ; it shows a spoiogenous tissue even a more massive character than that of b ( fig* lb ) , and corresponds pro a y ost nearly in complexity of structure to the sporangium drawn in fig. 15 . .
The whole of these drawings serve to illustrate the considerable fluctuations o u nd complexity of structure in the sporangia of this species , and this is quite in accor 3 s 2 500 PROFESSOR F. 0 .
BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY with the experience of Goebel ( ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1880 , p. 551 ) .
The observations here detailed agree with his so far as regards the reference of the sporogenous tissue to single axile row of cells , with reservations of some questionable cases where parts 0f lateral rows may contribute a few cells ; but this has been actually demonstrated in no single case .
I cannot , however , agree with him in referring the whole sporogenous tissue to a single cell of that row ; here , as in E. , additions are made to the primary archesporium by development of more superficial cells ( marked X in figs. 12 13 , and 16 , where they are clearly distinguished ) .
The cells of the axile row sooner or later divide by longitudinal walls , and again subdivide in various directions so as to produce a sporogenous tissue , which , in longitudinal section , would appear to average about 72 cells .
Turning notv to the cells which surround the sporogenous tissue , their arrangement is rather irregular , and the band of superficial tissue is usually thicker at the apical and lateral parts than on the anterior and posterior faces ( figs. 10 , 14 ) ; the sporogenous tissue is covered at the apex by three to five layers of cells , which are narrow , and are arranged with some approach to regularity .
Of the tissues composing this peripheral band , the innermost row of cells develop as the tapetum , dividing by repeated anticlinal walls , and may thus be distinguished from the rest ( fig. 20 ) ; the outermost series become enlarged and their walls strengthened , forming the permanent wall of the sporangium , while the cells which intervene are compressed , and their nutritive substances withdrawn as the sporangium approaches maturity .
As in other cases , the cells of the sporogenous tissue separate , round themselves off and divide into tetrads .
This process has been repeatedly the subject of detailed observation , and I do not propose to follow it further ; there is , however , a fact o : some importance which does not appear to have been noted by other observers , thai is , the partial sterilization of the sporogenous tissue .
It has been remarked above that an average number of sporogenous cells in a longitudinal section , before they separate and round themselves off , is 72 , but the average number of these cells , as seen in one section after they are rounded off , is only about 44 : the explanation oi this reduction is to be found in the fact that a considerable number of cells become disorganized during the process , as is shown in fig. 21 .
Here it is seen that the tapetum is still a continuous band outside the sporogenous cells , though the cell-walls of th\lt ; tapetum are disorganized , and the nuclei float freely in the continuous protoplasm The outer sporogenous cells still form an external barrier , but certain cells of tht sporogenous mass have lost their definite outline , their protoplasm has become irro gular , and their nuclei have lost size and brilliancy , and differ materially from thost of the rounded sporogenous cells : the number of cells thus altered in the small pari drawn is 13 , as against 30 which are rounded off .
These numbers , rough though the } are , will suffice to explain the discrepancy above noted .
In fact , about one-third t\lt ; one-quarter of the sporogenous cells are disorganized and do not form spores : then function is that of a diffused tapetum , and there can be no doubt that their substancf ribut.es to the nutrition of the survivors .
Ultimately the external tapetum es its way between the rounded sporogenous cells , and then it is no longer ible to distinguish the nuclei and plasma of the external tapetum from those of disorganized sporogenous cells .
It will subsequently be shown that a similar .king down of sporcgenous cells takes place in other types of Vascular Cryptogams , it must be recognized as one of the forms which sterilization of this tissue may be Ld to assume .
Results from Study of Equisetum .
The sporangium is Eusporangiate .
The essential parts of the sporangium , that is , the contents , are ultimate y rable in origin to a single superficial cell .
The first division of this cell is periclinal : the inner cell forms only part of the rogenous tissue , to which addition is made of other cells derived by further segmen-on 0f the outer cell .
The archesporium of Equisetum is thus shown to be not a fie hypodermal cell in the sense laid , down by Goebel i. The tapetum is derived from the series of cells immediately surrounding the rogenous mass .
' i. About one-third of the cells of the sporogenous mass are broken down and organized without forming spores ; these serve physiologically as a diffused tapetum , 1 help to nourish the developing spores .
5 .
The superficial cells form the wall of the sporangium , while those between the jetum and the wall are pressed out of shape and disorganized as development 5CG6(ls .
7 .
The sporangiophores and sporangia of Equisetum arvense when young are , on e average , of a more massive type and more regular segmentation than those of palustre ; and it is to be noted that the former is a terrestrial , the latter an [ uatic species .
Theoretical ( Jonsideration of the Results .
Perhaps the most interesting point of detail in the results thus stated is that the chesporium of Equisetum is not , strictly speaking , of hypodermal origin , but t at i addition is made to the first hypodermal archesporial cell by further segmentation [ the superficial one .
In this , it will be subsequently shown that Equisetum does ot stand alone .
In Isoetes , also , and in Selagine , and , in rare cases , in Lycopodium , imilar additions appear to be made to the sporogenous cells first laid down , the ce s hus added are shown in Equisetum to develop into spores , and are thus archesporial n their character .
It will be seen that these facts will affect the generalization of jOebel , as given in the paper in which he introduced the idea of the archesporium [ 'Bot .
Zeit./ 1880 , p. 569 ) .
He there states " that in all the Vascular Cryptogams which he investigated there is a hypodermal archesporium .
" Goebel assign* ; lateral limit to the archesporial tissue as applicable for all cases , for , according toi description , the archesporium may be a single cell , a row of cells , or even a layer* sheet of cells ( loc. ext .
, p. 564 ) .
This my observations , to be detailed below , aianT confirm .
The only definite limit which Goebel assigns for all Vascular Crypto\#174 ; ^ which he investigated is that of depth of origin ; they are all hypodermal JJ ?
strict sense , however , this is not the case in .
Accordingly , I do not\#187 ; e how any strict topographical definition can be applied to the archesporium whil shall hold for all Vascular Cryptogams .
It is true that in most Vascular Cryptogam and probably in all , the archesporium is ultimately referable in its origin to the segmentation of one or more superficial cells .
But what part of the shoot in these plants does not originate in this way 1 A statement of this fact would be in no way distinctive in plants in which one or more initial cells are commonly the ultimate parents of the tissues of all parts , whether deeply seated or superficial .
While the results of my observations on sporangia of Vascular Cryptogams will confirm Goebel 's statement that the sporogenous tissues are referable in origin to a definite cell cells ( archesporial cells ) , I find it impossible to give to these cells a strict topographical definition which shall apply in all cases .
This conclusion need be in no way surprising , for it is plain , in the first place , that the segmentation which gives rise to the archesporium , in Vascular Cryptogams , is different from that in Phanerogams ; in the latter the dermatogen is as a rule definite , and distinct in origin and segmentation from the subjacent hypodermal cells , which ultimately give rise to the sporogenous tissue .
In the second place the origin of the archesporium in the Musci is not uniform ; for it has been shown by Waldner ( ' Die Entw .
d. Sporogone v. u. Sphagnum !
Leipzig , 1887 ) , that while in Sphagnum the archesporium is formed from the endo-thecium , in Andrcea it is derived from the amphithecium , the latter is also the case for other Mosses .
The case of the Anthocerotese has also been noted above ( p. 489 ) ; in these plants there is absence of uniformity in origin of the sporogenous tissue , within the limits of the family .
This I take to be a most instructive example in connection with the present question .
While there is , thus , want of uniformity within the Bryophyta in the depth of origin of the archesporium , there is also a difference in its mode of origin as we pass from the Bryophyta to the Vascular Cryptogams , and again , in point of segmentation , as we pass from the latter to the Phanerogams .
In view ol these variations it need be no matter for surprise that in the Vascular Cryptogams themselves the mode of origin of the archesporium is not susceptible of a strict topographical definition which shall apply for all cases .
Equisetum being a strobiloid type , in accordance with our working hypothesis , we shall look upon the strobilus as the counterpart of a sporogonial head , while the apex of the strobilus will then correspond to the apex of a sporogonium ( see p. 492 ) .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
)gards the segmentation of the apex I see no difficulty in the present case , for pical cone of Equisetum , as seen in the strobilus , is in many respect , s similar to of certain sporogonia of Bryophytes ; few would see in the difference between a sided and a three-sided cell , or between a three-sided pyramid and a growth more than one initial , a serious objection to such a comparison as I suggest .
e sterile central part of the strobilus , with its vascular bundles , would be the berpart of a columella .
It is , doubtless , more bulky , and its structure more .lex , but , as regards its topographical relation to the spore-production , it is ubtedly similar to the columella of Bryophytes .
Now , among the Anthocerotese , 5 is found great variation in the bulk of the columella ; in the genus Notothylas , jially , such variations are seen .
I accordingly look upon the relatively greater of the central sterile mass in Equisetum as no obstacle to its recognition as the terpart of the columella .
le form of the very young strobilus is clearly like that of a sporogonial head ; the ?
difference lies in the simplicity of external surface of the Bryophytic sporogonium Its connected archesporium , while , in Equisetu , the surface produces outgrowths sporangiophores ) , and the archesporia are isolated .
But the appearance pre-ed during development is very suggestive , and may with propriety be thought Lve a clue to the origin of the more complex structure .
The young strobilus has a smooth surface , on which undulating swellings appear , as already noted by meister and by Goebel .
At an early stage , the sporangia may be recognized as mating at certain points on these outgrowths ( compare figs. 1-4 , PI .
42 ) , certain srficial cells , by their segmentation , supplying the essential parts of the sporangia , our hypothesis , we should see in these cells and the products of their segmenta- , the isolated remains of a largely-sterilized potential archesporium , while the fact b they are carried out upon the massive sporangiophores need in no way disturb comparison of the archesporial cells themselves .
It may , however , be objected b , in Equisetum , superficial cells provide the essential parts of the sporangia ; but this in is no real difficulty , for , ultimately , the same is the case in many Bryophytes ; amphithecium is , in the young state , a series of superficial cells , and it is this er which in many cases yields the sporogenous tissue .
But , in this connection , ^ the lence of strict uniformity of origin of the archesporium in the Bryophyta is specially portant .
The gradual appearance of the columella , and relegation of spore pro ction to more superficial tissues is illustrated in the Anthocerotese , if such a \gt ; dification were carried but a little further , if the columella were more bulky , and the finite specialization of a.rehesporia deferred , the result , as regards , would such as is seen in Equisetum .
There is , however , the essential difference^ of the chesporium being in the Bryophyta one continuous band , in Equisetum isolated itches ; at present , we have no direct evidence before us how such a change took Lace , but , referring again to the analogy of the Anthocerotese , the origin of the fiumella , by grouping of sterile cells , has been concluded by Beitgeb ( see p. 489 ) .
We see that , in Anthoceros , a large proportion of the cells resulting from the arch , sporium are developed as sterile cells ; a grouping of these together might produce such a condition as is seen in Equisetum , viz. , the isolation of those cells which still remain fertile ( archesporia ) , while between them extensive tracts of sterile tissue would intervene .
Such would be an extreme example of the septate condition and it will remain to inquire whether any evidence is to be found among other Vascular Cryptogams as to the origin of sterile septa from a continuous potential archesporium In the meanwhile , we may note with additional interest the presence of a large number of sterile cells in the young sporangia of Equisetum , and , though they do not develop as elaters with thick walls , still in their condition of sterility they may pro .
perly be compared with those of the Liverworts , especially of the type shown in Oxymitra .
Another question will be whether from other types of Vascular Cryptogams evidence can be gained of the origin of upgrowths ( sporangiophores ) which would raise the sporangia beyond the surface of the part on which they are produced ; suet evidence would be of peculiar value in its bearings upon the question under discussion .
In any discussion such as that before us , the facts concerning the strobili of certain fossil forms will have to be considered .
Whatever opinions may be held as to the nearer or more remote kinship of modern Equiseta to the Calamarieae , there can , I think , be little doubt that the strobilus of a modern Equ as a whole is the homologueof the whole spike-like fertile branch in the latter group .
Assuming this to be granted , we see on comparing these several strobili that there is some variety in their construction , and in the relations of the component parts one to another .
Such points will have to be considered in the general discussion of the question , which will be taken up later .
In the meanwhile I see in the case of Equisetum no a priori objection to our working hypothesis ; the details of development would rather support it .
But before it can be seriously entertained , some more consecutive evidence will be required that formation of sterile masses of tissue from a potential archesporium does occur ; we shall also inquire whether it may be concluded , on comparative grounds , that septa have been produced within any naturally allied series of Vascular Cryptogams , thus dividing into separate parts an originally continuous archesporium .
LIE COPODINE./ E. The Lycopodineee are also strobiloid forms , to which our working hypothesis may be applied .
In examining them , we may be prepared to see in the strobilus the counterpart of a sporogonial head , while certain of the vegetative parts may have resulted from further development of a sterile part corresponding to a seta .
In th\#174 ; latter category may , perhaps , be placed the protocorm of Tbetjb , with the leaves ( protophylls ) which it bears ; it will , however , be shown that the majority of til a leaves of certain Lycopods are more probably to be looked upon as sterilized whylls .
These ideas will be applied in the study of various Lycopodinous forms gj will now be taken up .
4Phylloglossum Drummondii , Kunze ( figs. 22-33 and fig. 92 , , % vegetative organs of Phylloglossum are now fairly well known , both as regards ^ial form and internal structure .
The earlier observations of Mettenius* have Extended by M. Bertrand , t who investigated chiefly the mature structure , and irself as regards the germination of the tuber , and the formation of the new dative parts from it .
% These two researches , conducted separately and published at simultaneously , led to virtually the same conclusion , viz. , that we may regard ppglossum as a form which retains , and repeats in its sporophyte generation , lore prominent characteristics of the embryo as seen in Lycopodium a conclusion was based on comparison of Phylloglossum with young stages of $\gt ; pment of Lycopodium cernuum , as described by Dr. Treub in his earlier mr on that plant ; S but the similarity in certain points is now seen to be even J striking since the publication of this author 's more recent observations on the tyology of this plant ; || while assenting to the general conclusion , Dr. Treub frs to give the thesis a slightly different form , by inverting it , and asserting hr that in their young state Lycopodium , , and 4t the Phylloglossum .
In view of Dr. Treub 's theory of the , this ddment may be accepted .
He states the theory as follows :\#151 ; IT Che embryonic tubercle in the Lycopods is a rudimentary organ .
" The organ \gt ; cetically admitted as occurring in the ancestors of actual Vascular Cryptogams , btyled above * The predecessor of the leafy shoot as it is now seen in the genus opodium , ' exists even at the present day as a transitory stage in the genus tftpodium .
This organ is none other than the embryonic tubercle " Further , ** I aose to give the embryonic tubercle of the Lycopodiums the name of the *tocorm .
" Later , referring to Phylloglossum , Dr. Treub says : " it will be super-lqs to say that , to me , the tubercles of Phylloglossum Drummondii are to be Jed upon as protocorms , playing still a real and considerable part .
The protocorm Multiplication of Phylloglossum has become a much more specialized organ than in eLycopodiums .
" Fom the above quotations , which put the whole matter on a firmer footing than * * * S * * ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1867 .
t ' Arch. Bot. da Nord de la France , ' 1885 , p. 70 .
J 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1885 .
S " fitudes sor les Lycopodiacees , " ' Ann. du Jard .
Bot. de Buitenzorg , ' 4 , p. 107 .
U 'Ann .
du Jard .
Bot. de Buitenzorg , ' 8 , p. 1 .
If Loc .
dt .
, 8 , p. 30 .
[ DCCCXCIV.--B .
3 T before , it appears that Dr. Treub would endorse the last words of my former on Phylloglossum , viz. , that " it is a permanently embryonic form of Lycopod''- .
fact , as he states , ,f Phylloglossum " would represent a more ancient group than ^|| represented by living Lycopodiums .
" This view , however , is not universally admitted .
M. Bertrand , while recognizb the similarity between the early stages of Lycopodium cernuum and the adult Phylloglossum , remarks " It is singular , in the present case , that Phylloglossum is superior to the Lycopods , and still that its adult state is but a reproduction of an embryonic stage of the latter .
Here is a case of retrogression , which has as its p^n cause the semi-aquatic habit .
" I confess , with all respect to M. Bertrand , that the anatomical characters on which he chiefly relies for assigning relative positions to the Lycopods do not seem to me a sufficient reason for placing Phylloglossum higher in the scale than Lycopodium .
As to the semi-aquatic habit , it seems to me that it is precisely in such positions that the most interesting early forms of the sporophyte might on a priori grounds be expected to occur ; if , as I have suggested elsewhere , antithetic alteration be an adaptive development closely connected with the progression from water to the land , then the semiaquatic flora should include some of the earliest types of development of the sporophyte .
t Accordingly , I am disposed to look upon Phylloglossum as relatively a primitive , and for this reason I shall give it the first place in the description which is to follow .
One of the most marked characteristics of , and one by which it is distinguished from species of Lycopodium , is that the transition from the leaves borne by the protocorm to the sporophylls of the strobilus is usually a sudden one .
The zone of intercalary growth , by the extension of which the strobilus is carried up , appears to be a natural limit between the vegetative leaves on the one hand , and the sporophylls on the other .
In one specimen , represented in fig. 22 , a single sporo-phyll is seated at some distance below the rest of the strobilus ; it has , however , a sporangium in its axil , and is therefore to be looked upon as a sporophyll which was left behind in the course of intercalary growth ; but it is also of larger size and more succulent development than normal sporophylls , and may therefore be actually an intermediate step between the sporophyll and those leaves ( protophylls ) which are borne by the protocorm .
On the other hand , it is not unfrequently found that the last of the protophylls is smaller than the rest ; this was shown in figs. 18 , 20 , 25 , and 27 , of my former paper , and alluded to in the text on pp. 670 , 671 , and 675 .
} The position of these leaves is close to the base of the strobilus in those plants which bear sporangia ; these leaves , again , are probably transitional steps between the typical protophyll and the sporophyll ; they are , however , inconstant , both in form and occurrence , and commonly the transition is a sudden one .
I think it probable * Log. cit. , p. 73 .
t * Annals of Botany , ' vol. 4 , p. 347 , \amp ; c. t ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1885 .
i the part described by M. Bertrand under the name of the " organ of Lenius , " * is simply one or two rudimentary leaves of this nature .
This was Lted by M. Bertrand himself ( loc. tit .
, p. 197 ) , but whereas he describes this \#163 ; ag of constant occurrence , there was very little constancy in its appearance in Specimens which I have examined . .
le strobilus itself is almost always simple , but one specimen , grown in the |gow Botanic Garden , shows a branching ( fig. 23 ) into two unequal limbs .
The * was a weakly one , and neither of the strobili appeared well developed ; it may efore be looked upon as an abnormality , though it is interesting for comparison i the branched strobili of various species of Lycopodium .
for comparison , on the one hand with the structure of the mature protophylls as \#171 ; ribed by M Bertrand !
and by myself , { and on the other with the protophylls Icopodium cernuum , as described by M. Tretjb , S I have made drawings of young les of Phylloglossum .
Fig. 24 shows a whole plant , such as that of fig. 8 of my ner paper in median longitudinal section , while fig. 25 , i , n. , m. , are successive osverse sections of a single leaf .
It is true that no distinctive characters are parent from these sections , but the rarity and morphological importance of this nt justify the representation of such details , even though the bearing of them v not be obvious at the present moment .
^ implying our working hypothesis to Phylloglossum , which on grounds above stated recognize as a relatively primitive type , we should see m the protocorm the mterpart of the seta of Bryophytes .
It is enlarged it is true , and bears appen-ular organs ( protophylls and roots ) , but these are distinctly primitive m their m ; the leaves are arranged in a rather irregular fashion , the roots are exogenous and 8 whole character of this part of the plant is such as to fall in with the hypothesis , le distinction between this vegetative region and the strobilus is unusually definite , ire so than in other Lycopods , while there is an entire absence of that intermediate getative region which forms the greater part of the plant of Lycopodium , even in , ch species as still show the characters of a protocorm in their embryonic stages , i the strobilus we should see the counterpart of the sporogomal head ; as in the ise of Equisetum , it is more complex in external form than the sporogomal head , earing appendicular organs , and separate sporangia ; but the same arguments as ave been used in the case of Equisetum will apply also here in meeting anteceden bjections on these grounds to the comparison which I suggest .
The detai e xamination of the strobilus will now be proceeded with .
The strobilus has been described in minute detail by M. Bertrand , || as regar s * * * S * ' Arch. Bot. du Nord de la France , ' p. 74 .
t Loc .
ci\#163 ; .
, p.JL74 .
gj + ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1885 , p. 673 , and figs. 36 , 37 .
S ' Ann. d. Jard .
Bot. d. Buitenzorg , ' 8 .
|| Loc .
cit. , pp. 120-131 .
508 PROFESSOR F. 0 .
BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY its mature structure , but developmental data are at present wanting .
This 1\lt ; i I am able partially to fill , from observations on specimens reared from tubers ir^ Glasgow Garden .
The youngest state of the sporangium seen in radial section is ^ shown in fig. 26 .
The section includes the apex of the strobilus , which is occupy by a conical initial cell ; round this are segments disposed with some regularit but it is difficult to refer the whole growing point in origin to this single initial .
single initial was not found either at the apex of the mature tuber , nor of the yom one , and sufficient material was not at hand to decide the time of its appeaiuib at the apex of the strobilus , or whether it be constant in occurrence , or in form Below the extreme apex the youngest leaf ( 1 , ii .
) appears as a broadly convex out growth , without any single initial , while the next older sporophyll ( s1 ) is already far advanced , and bears in its axil the young sporangium .
This is a multicellular outgrowth , of which the cells , as seen in this section , are referable in origin to a single parent .
Segmentation has , however , gone so far that a single archesporial cell ( a ) is completely surrounded by others , and occupies a rather deeply-seated position .
Fig. 27 shows another section through the same sporangium ( which , as iu Lycopodium , is a sausage-shaped outgrowth , and may thus be traversed by numerous planes of radial section ) .
Here the segmentation is more regular , and the arche-sporium appears divided into four cells by very delicate walls , which the treatment of the previous section had probably made invisible .
The cells below the arche-sporium are also showing the first signs of that activity of growth and division , which results in the formation of the stalk of the sporangium .
Fig. 28 shows a rather later state with less regular segmentation , while in fig. 29 , the first peri-clmal divisions are appearing in the cells of the wall of the sporangium .
( N.B. This section is not exactly median .
) Finally in fig. 30 is seen a sporangium in which all the essential parts are present .
The enlarged head is borne upon a short and rather massive stalk , and it is bounded externally by a wall composed for the most part of two layers .
Of these the inner would divide subsequently , and the inmost layer thus formed would be the tapetum .
The basal part of the tapetum is already present a\#187 ; the irregular series of cells which adjoin the base of the sporogenous mass , the latter is already showing signs of the separation and rounding off of its cells preparatory to the formation of the tetrads .
Taking all these facts together it is plain that the development of the sporangium of corresponds in essential points with that of Lycopodium , as laid down by Goebel,41 ' or as described more in detail in later pages of this memoir ( p. 511 , \amp ; c. ) .
To gain an adequate knowledge of a solid body such as the sporangium of Phylloglossum , transverse and tangential sections must also be examined ; but , owing to the small quantity of material , the details could not be so completely worked out as they will be in some species of Lycopodium to be dealt with later .
Transverse * * Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1880 , p. 561 .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
itiofs through a sporangium of age corresponding to fig 28 , show that the hjorial cells form a series of which the number is at 'least four , and is probably odfig .
31 ) ; the section shows the sporangium united both with the stem and sorophyll , the plane of section must therefore have been about the dotted line ^8 and the two will mutually explain one another .
Fig. 32 again shows part aAlder sporangium in similar section , where the wall has already divided into \gt ; liars , while the sporogenous cells still form a continuous tissue , and have not - Jnpleted the divisions before the separation of the spore-mother-cells .
Fiixlly a tangential section ( fig. 33 ) of a sporangium rather younger than that of J shows the form of the sporogenous mass , which is curved in a sinuous fashion , iil|the cells are obviously arranged in groups which show their mode of origin mire-existent parent-cells ; but each of these groups does not represent the whole 4t of one archesporial cell ; probably each of the latter gives rise to two or even reiof the groups there clearly defined .
I am not able to state definitely the jL of archesporial cells in this plant , but it is probably about six .
Below 8 Erogenous tissue is the formative tissue of tapetum and stalk , of which the |^|ave obviously undergone repeated divisions , so as to raise the sporogenous mass i f|m its originally deep-seated position ; the point marked ( X ) is the middle of e gusage-shaped sporangium , only half of which could be shown in the figure .
general form of the sporangium as it approaches maturity , and its relation to e sorophyll and axis , will be seen from figs. 92 5 , c ) , and it is to be noted how \#187 ; *\lt ; of the sporangium is surrounded by the sporophylls , and laterally by out-growing als of the axis , so that it is almost completely protected from evaporation from ; arface , or from the direct sunlight , during its earlier period .
The form of the lolgium is slightly curved ( fig. 6 ) , and it is inserted by a short and moderately asjve stalk close to the axil of the sporophyll .
Tking all the characters together , the strobilus of Phylloglossum is , both in g evelopment and in its mature structure , strikingly similar to a simple strobilus sme species of Lycopodium ; comparing the sporophyte of these plants as a h4 the most salient points of difference are first the size , and secondly the bnce from Phylloglossum of any representative of the leafy and often branched egjjatwe axis , which as a development of considerable , often of great extent , \#166 ; ifedes the production of strobili in Lycopodium .
Summary for Phylloglossum .
Tie most important results from this examination of Phylloglossum for purposes : ur present comparison are these :\#151 ; 1 The abrupt transition ( with only few and inconstant intermediate steps ) from Vie protocorm with its protophylls , to the strobilus with its sporophylls and spcangia .
2 .
The close similarity of the strobilus to that of Lycopodium .
3 .
The origin of the sporangium corresponds in detail to that of some specif of Lycopodium , such as L. 4 .
The archesporium consists of about six cells , only one of which radial section .
appears in each Lycopodium .
In the observations above described , and in those embodied in other works referred to , I see no material obstacle to the application of our working hypothesis to Phyllo glossum , according to which the protocorm would be compared with the sterile of Bryophyta , of which it would be an elaborated example ; the strobilus would also be an elaborated type of sporogonial head .
It must , however , be remembered that the embryology of Phylloglossum is still unknown , while the sexual generation has never been seen ; till observations on these are made , such a question cannot be considered as finally settled .
The relations of parts are by no means so obvious in the genus Lycopodium ; in certain species , as already shown by Treub , the protocorm is represented in embryonic stages ( L. inundatum , salalcense , cernuum ) , but in these it plays an unimportant part , as compared with the vegetative development which follows , and the question will arise how this more prominent vegetative phase of Lycopodium is to be regarded , The strobilus in many species is a clearly differentiated part of the plant davatum ) ; in other species , however , there are peculiarly alternating sterile and fertile zones on the plant ( e.g. , L. Selago ) , and the question for us will be how are such characters to be harmonised with what has been seen in Phylloglossum , and how will they fall in with our working hypothesis ?
But before such questions can be discussed , the detailed description of observations which have been made on Lycopodium must be given .
The most detailed descriptions hitherto published of the development of the sporangium of Lycopodium are those given for L. Selago by Goebel , # and by S A debeck t for L. clavatum .
These descriptions are based chiefly upon radial sections through the strobilus , and though the appearance in tangential section is alluded to , no detailed description is given of the tissue so exposed ; transverse sections appear not to have been examined by either writer .
Obviously sections will be required in all three directions , radial , tangential , and transverse , in order to obtain a clear understanding of the structure and development of the sporangium ; this is more especially needed where , as in this genus , the sporangium is large and complex in structure .
Sadebeck remarks J that the recognition of the details of the archesporium is a matter of no great moment ; in dealing with plants , which are allowed to be the * 1 Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1880 , p. 561 , \amp ; c. f Schenk 's ' Handbuch , ' vol. 1 , p. 313 X Loc .
cit. , footnote , p. 318 .
vjng relics of a flora with a great history in the past , and to show affinities to fllophyta , all details have their importance , more especially those which relate tl primary spore-producing members .
Goebel appears to have examined only .
gicies in detail , and to have assumed that the details are virtually the same for .
|j so comprehensive a genus as Lycopodium it is desirable to examine and compare u4\gt ; er of species , of as divergent types as possible .
V Jrdingly a very large number of serial sections have been prepared from different c| of the genus ; the strobili have been cut radially , tangentially , and transversely , l ion these sections a comparative study of the development of the sporangia from lifarliest stages has been based .
The results will now be described in detail , and it l b shown that there is not only a considerable variety in the form of the sporangium liferent species , but also in the mode of origin and number of the archesporial cells .
[ Xay farther be added that the sections were cut in series , by the rocking microbe being extremely thin , there was no need of clearing by potash or other ?
hs : as each section included only one layer of cells , or at most parts of cohere was no need of focussing down into the thickness of the section in order to 4 results , a method which has frequently been a source of error in developmental 4s .
Finally , the recognition of the archesporium in early phases of development Jot been based merely upon the refractive power , or granular character of the l*bntents , but in cases of doubt the decision has been arrived at by comparison of \e sections illustrating the course of development , rather than by recognition of Veential characters in the individual specimen ; for these differential characters J appear relatively late , and are , at best , an uncertain guide .
L. Selago .
L. ( figs. 34-49 , and fig. 92 , , his species having been the subject of the most detailed previous study , will be sfdescribed .
The sporangium originates on the upper surface of the sporophyll , idelose to its base ; it is , at the time of separation of the tetrads , a slightly curved \gt ; d , of which the form as seen in radial , tangential , and transverse sections will be es recognized by reference to the figs. 92 , d , e , f. It is specially to be noted that ilie radial section the stalk is narrow in proportion to the size of the head of the peangium , while , as seen in tangential section , the stalk measures rather less than ui-third of the total width of the sporangium .
The sporophyll covers in the young \gt ; pcangium only partially ; and , together with the next higher leaf and flanges of the ten below the insertion of the lateral leaves , forms a much less complete protection 9q is the case in some other species .
n examining radial sections through the sporangium those have always been seicted which include the vascular bundle of the sporophyll ; it is not sufficient in tl1 case of a sporangium of tranversely elongated form , like that of Lycopodium , to certain that the section of the strobilus is strictly radial , for in such a section the 512 PROFESSOR F. O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY sporangium may be traversed obliquely ; if , however , the sporophyll be cut raji so also must be the sporangium which it subtends .
As seen thus in radial section 2 ' sporangium appears to originate from a single cell , but this is only one of which lie at the base of the sporophyll .
This cell divides by anticlinal wallg^ disposed as to cut off lateral parts from a larger cell which lies between ( X figs 34 , 35 ) ; the lateral cells undergo subsequent subdivision , but apparently^ according to a strict rule , as will be seen on comparison of figs. 35 to 41 ; thelar central cell ( X ) has a square base ; by periclinal walls there are cut from it a basal cell ( lii ) which after further subdivision contributes to the central part of the stalk ' and a superficial cell ( i ) , which forms part of the wall of the sporangium : the cell ( iij which lies between these , is the archesporium , and it is thus unicellular , as seen in radial section.i ?
The description thus far coincides with that given by Goebel , and fig. 36 may be compared with his fig. 8 ; excepting some differences of position of the less important walls the drawings correspond ; it is not however to be expected that the correspondence should extend to minute details , in the case of relatively bulky masses of tissue such as these .
I am unable to endorse the details of the subsequent steps as described by Goebel .
He illustrates by his fig. 9 how , at a later stage , the sporangium consists of a wall of a single layer of cells , and three rows of cells enclosed by it .
The archesporium is stated by him to be derived from the central more strongly-growing row , while lateral rows are curved to one side , and take no direct part in the formation of spores ; it is to be noted that Goebel gives no account of how these three rows of cells originate , and in accurately radial sections I have never seen such an arrangement .
The structure of the sporangium , which I found to be typical though not constant at this later stage , is that shown in fig. 37 ; the cell ( i ) of fig. 36 has undergone anticlinal divisions , so that the wall , of which it forms a part , consists of a single line of cells ; cell ( ii ) , which is the archesporium , divides longitudinally and transversely , so as to form a group of sporogenous cells , which abut on three sides directly upon the wall of the sporangium , while the base is in contact with the tissue derived from cell ( iii ) ; this has undergone longitudinal division into two , and these cells divide repeatedly in a transverse direction , so that two primitive rows of cells , not three , occupy the interior of the stalk .
But this almost diagrammatic regularity may be often absent , and some sporangia present appearances such as those in figs. 38 and 39 ; the explanation of such irregularities as these is to be found in the fact that the archesporium consists not of one cell , but of a row of cells , and that the walls separating these do not always run in radial planes , but sometimes obliquely , so that even a perfectly radial section , cut very thin , may include parts derived from distinct archesporial cells ; this has probably been the case for the parts a and b of the figs. 38 and 39 , In the latter the periclinal division of the cells of the wall has begun ; this takes place as Goebel has described it , the superficial cells dividing periclinally ; the inner of the resulting layers again divides , the innermost layer being the tapetum ; there is often some irregularity in the details , and it is to be specially OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
, that the second divisions are delayed at the apex , where the line of dehiscence of \gt ; orangium will be ( d , fig. 40 ) .
The head of the sporangium meanwhile enlarges , jorogenous mass of cells having grown , and having undergone repeated divisions )ore-mother-cells round themselves off , separate from one another , and are freely nded in a fluid mass ; they then divide into tetrads in the manner already mown .
The structure of the radial section of the sporangium at the time when , e essential parts are laid down , is thus shown in fig. 41 ; the wall consists ally of three layers , of which the outermost is the permanent wall ; irregularities however , by which the number of layers is in part increased to four , or even layers ; the stalk , originally consisting of three rows of cells , remains permanently w as compared with other species , and shows 5-7 rows of cells , ice the sporangium , when mature , is a reniform body , tangential sections , which v the plane of curvature , will give more certain results than transverse sections termining the origin , number , and form of the archesporial cells .
Hitherto , little finitely known on this point .
Goebel does not give any detailed account of the mtial section ( loc. cit. , p. 564 ) .
Fig. 42 shows a tangential section , through a ingium of nearly the same age as fig. 36 , and the corresponding cells are similarly oered .
It thus appears that the number of archesporial cells ( which are here ed ) is at least seven , but a comparison of other sporangia shows that the number vary .
Examination of their arrangement , and relations to one another , shows they are not referable in origin to a single cell , though this was suggested by bel as not improbable .
It seems rather that in this section they are referable to east three , but a comparison of other sporangia has not disclosed any fixed her of archesporial cells , nor any definite mode of their origin .
The sporangium , di appears at first ( fig. 42 ) as a simple projection , soon begins to extend right and ( fig. 43 ) , projecting beyond the limits of its stalk , and assuming ultimately the ley-like form shown in fig. 92 , e ; the archesporial cells meanwhile divide ( figs. 43 44 ) , in a manner which explains itself from the figures ; the cells of the wall also de perielinally , and in accordance with what has been seen in radial sections , s tissue derived from the cells marked ( iii .
) , and the adjoining cells , is worthy of mtion : the cells grow and divide repeatedly , forming a massive pad below the rogenous tissue , which apparently presses the latter outwards , especially at the tral part , and the whole sporangium assumes the curved form .
This pad of itral tissue is smaller here than in several other species , but it is well to note its stence , and as it will be an important feature in the subsequent argument , it may called the sub-archesporial pad .
It remains to describe the appearance of the sporangium in transverse section .
Lis has been alluded to by Goebel ( loc. cit. , p. 564 ) , and the multicellular character the archesporium .
was observed by him , but no drawings were published .
The orangium appears as an elongated and massive projection , and when viewed exter-dly and from above , shows no clearly-defined series of cells which could be mdcccxciv.\#151 ; b. 3 u m distinguished as the cells ( ii .
) of figs. 36 or 42 ; the segmentations seem to he i Aguiar , and this will coincide with the difference of details of segmentation as seen in 0u sections ( fig. 45 ) .
The series of archesporial cells being curved , it is clear that \#187 ; transverse section will cut only the middle cells of the series transversely , while th \amp ; right and left from them will be cut obliquely ; this must be remembered in the info pretation of the sections .
When cut transversely ( fig. 46 ) , the young sporangj^ shows the series of archesporial cells , of which six or more may be traversed .
The wall of the sporangium consists at this stage of a single series of cells ; at the poles of the sporangium the appearance of a doubling of the walls may be presented , but if reference be made to fig. 42 , and the plane of section be taken as the line s , it will then be understood how this apparent doubling comes about .
The sporangium , in such sections as fig. 46 , is adherent to the sporophyll .
This is explained by reference to fig. 36 , in which the line s , s will indicate the plane in which the sporangium of fig. 46 has been cut .
The subsequent development is illustrated by figs. 47 , 48 , and 49 , and , after the foregoing descriptions , these will call for no detailed explanation .
It may be noted , however , that the wall of the sporangium on the side next the sporophyll is commonly thicker than on the adaxial side ; this may be seen early in the radial sections ( figs. 37-39 ) , and comes out clearly in the transverse sections also ( figs. 48 and 49 ) .
The origin of the tapetum is , as Goebel has described it , partly from the cells which form the wall of the sporangium , but partly also from the products of cells ( iii .
) in figs. 36 and 42 .
The question may be brought up whether the whole of the sporogenous mass be really derived from the cells recognized as the archesporium , or whether other cells may also contribute to the mass ; for instance , such cells as those marked ( X ) in figs. 46 and 47 might suggest the idea of such additions ; other sections , somewhat irregularly cut , might also be thought to support this ; it has , however , been shown that the cells marked ( x ) owe their appearance to the oblique direction in which the plane of section traverses the lateral parts of the sporangium , and a similar consideration of the details in other cases suffices to show that in this species the sporogenous mass is referable in its origin entirely to the archesporium as above described .
It is well known how L. Selago bears on one and the same axis successive fertile and sterile zones ; the character of the leaves , however , varies but little , the sterile foliage leaves being in all essential points similar to the sporophylls .
An examination of the leaves about the limits of these zones shows that in the axils of those apparently sterile , a more or less completely arrested sporangium is commonly to be found , so that the transition from the one to the other is a gradual one .
The simple fact , so easily observed in this species , is found also to hold for others , and its importance will be brought out more prominently on a later page ( p. 535 ) .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
Results from study of L. Selago .
L. e chief facts regarding the development of the sporangium in L. Selago may be larised as follows : The sporangium originates at the base of the sporophyll , as a transversely tded cushion , consisting of many cells , arranged without strict regularity .
The arehesporium consists of one row of hypodermal cells , six or more m \gt ; er , which give rise to the whole of the sporogenous mass .
The tapetum is derived partly from the primitive wall of the sporangium ( from nnermost of the three layers resulting from its division ) , partly from the cells hi lie directly below the arehesporium .
The pad of tissue below the arehesporium grows into a convex mass , which sets so as to give a curved form to the sporogenous tissue ; this is however less :ed than in some other species .
The stalk of the sporangium is narrow , consisting at first of three rows of cells even in radial section ; these subsequently increase by division to five , six , or The plant shows successive sterile and fertile zones , and there is no sharp limit Teen the fertile strobilus , and the sterile , or vegetative part ; about their limits sted sporangia are to be found in the axils of the leaves .
L. phlegmaria .
L. lertain other species of Lycopodium which have been examined show a near roach to L. Selago in the characters , both mature and developmental , of the rangium ; of those we may take , first L. phleg , and it is somewhat remarkable t the similarity should exist in species which in habit and habitat ai e so different jhese two species are .
The general form of the sporangium and its relation to er parts of the strobilus are shown in figs. 92 , ; it will be noted that the lilarity to L. Selago is most pronounced in the radial sections ( figs. 92 , d , g ) ; die tangential section the sporangium of L. phlegmaria is much moie curved , and ) stalk much narrower than in L. Selago ( figs. 92 , e , h ) ; this character is well seen m the earliest stages of development ( fig* 50 ) , which also shows that the arehesporium referable in this species to not more than four , and probably even to two cells , file the stalk is also referable to the division of two cell-rows .
L. nummularifolium .
Blume .
There is an obvious similarity between the strobili of this species and of / .
phlegmaria .
Examination of sections of the sporangia shows close similarity of etails , so that there is no call for a special description ; it may , however , be 3 u 2 remarked , that occasionally extra periclinal divisions take place in the wall of the sporangium , thus increasing the mass of tissue composing it .
Such divisions are occasionally seen in L. Selago , but are a characteristic feature in L. ( see below ) .
L. carinatum .
Desv .
A form of the sporangium similar to that just described is found in carinatum though in this species the actual size of the sporangium is much greater than in either of the preceding species .
An examination of figs. 92 , n , o , will show the resemblance to L. phlegm aria , both in the form of the sporangium , and the proportionally delicate stalk , and also in the lax manner in which the young sporangium is protected externally by the axis and sporophylls ; all these peculiarities are thus shared by the four species which accordingly form a natural group as regards this character .
In fig. 51 is shown a transverse section of the sporangium of L. , cut so as tc traverse the sub-archesporial pad ( s.p. ) at a point immediately above the insertion oi the stalk ; this was drawn for purposes of comparison , and will be referred to latei on .
The shaded portions represent the sporogenous tissue .
Specimens of this , am of the two preceding species , were kindly sent to me from Buitenzorg , by Dr. Tretjb Lycopodium dichotomum .
Jacq .
( \#151 ; L. mandioccanum .
Baddi .
) Specimens of this species were supplied to me from the Botanic Garden of Brussels These show the sporangium to be similar as regards form to those of L. and carinatum ( fig. 92 ) though the stalk is somewhat more massive , and the sub archesporial pad is more largely developed .
The chief interest , however , in th sporangia of this species lies in the fact that the wall of the sporangium is of unusua thickness .
A detailed examination shows that the wall of the sporangium consist of some 4-7 layers of cells ( figs. 52 , 53 ) ; the number is not exactly defined , nor is th arrangement of the cells very regular ; the outermost layer develops with thicker walh as in other species ; the innermost is the tapetum , while between these interven several layers of thin-walled cells , which evidently have been increased in number b periclinal divisions ( fig. 52 ) .
The development shows that this is the case , and tha the difference between this and other species is due to additional periclinal divisior in the wall , and not to the contribution of tissues from the sporogenous mass to tt tissues of the wall .
The interest of this departure from the usual type of Lycopodium rests on con parison with other forms ; it will be shown later , that in " Brown 's Cone " of Lepidi strobusthe wall of the sporangium is more bulky and complex in structure than i other Lepidostrobi , or in most species of Lycopodium ; it is generally known , als that the wall of the sporangium of Ophioglossum is rather similar in structure \ this of L. dichotomum ; at present it will suffice to note these facts , which wiU dwelt upon more fully at a later page .
But even in sporangia of L. Selago an OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
mnmularifolium a tendency towards this more bulky development of the wall is b seen , especially near the base of the sporogenous mass ; a comparison of jL 4i\gt ; 49 of L.Selago shows that periclinal divisions have here and there uresed the thickness of the wall to four layers in the lower part of the sporangium ; re iv but to imagine such divisions to extend upwards and to be more numerous , id , he more complex wall of the sporangium as in L. dichotomum would be the 3SU\amp ; .
Ifother respects the development and structure of the sporangia of this species do ot resent characters requiring special description .
L. inundatum .
L. Ve may pass on now to species in which the sporangium is , even from the initial ep , of a more bulky character than in the Selago type .
L. inundatum may be aka as an intermediate example ( figs. 92 , m ) ; here the stalk is shorter and i\\lt ; m massive than that in the preceding species , while the form of the sporangium ppoaches more nearly to that of Phylloglossum .
The details of protection of the i-oa-ngium while young by the other parts of the strobilus also resemble those of 'hiloglossum , though the protection is even more complete than in that plant .
Timing to the early stages of development it is seen that the sporangium originates s more massive structure , showing a gentler and wider curve as it arises from the .
poophyll .
The sporogenous tissue appears here to be derived not from a single cesporial cell- as seen in radial section , but two at least take part in its formation tig 54 , shaded cells ) , while their relations are such as to show that the periclinal hvsions , by which they were separated from the superficial cells , were formed ndpendently in the two adjoining cells .
Traces of this mode of origin may be -ee in much later stages , and fig. 55 shows how the sporogenous tissue may still be cgnized as composed of two parts , which are referable to the two initial arche-\#166 ; jxia.1 cells .
These sporangia have not been followed out into further detail .
It 'air be mentioned , however , that seven or more initials are to be seen in the ragential section of a young sporangium .
When the development of the sporangium inS .
alpinum and L. clavatum has been described it will be seen that L. inundatum oeapies an intermediate position between the more massive type and that of L. , heh .
as regards the mature form and also in respect of the earlier stages of develop-mat of the sporangium .
It will subsequently be shown also that this mode of origin \gt ; fthe sporangium in L. inundatum approaches more nearly to that in certain species \lt ; \#163 ; Selaginella than any others which have been examined .
^t the base of the strobilus of this species , where the gradual transition takes pice from the sterile foliage leaf to the sporophyll , completely arrested sporangia are nfen found in the axils of the leaves .
Passing upwards from these to the typical p"t of the strobilus a gradual passage to the typical sporangium may be traced ( see p535 ) .
L. clavatum .
L. The sporangium of this species is somewhat distinct from those which have ahead been described ( figs. 92 , t-x ) .
Instead of the stalk being relatively thin , it is Very short and massive in L. clavatum , while the sporogenous tissue forms a strongly-curved and rather less bulky zone , which fits immediately over the sub-archesporial pad ; this is here very massive , and , as seen in tangential section ( fig. 92 , u ) , projects far up into the sporangium : it has , moreover , this peculiarity , observed in no othei species of Lycopodium , that its outline is distinctly convex in the radial seetior .
( fig. 92 , t ) , and may even sometimes extend , as the sporangium becomes matured into irregular processes , which project into the developing mass of spores ; in this m probably see a means of more ready transfer of nutritive materials from the base o the sporangium into the very large mass of spores .
This character will be found a value when we come to compare it with the sporangia of The sporangia are exceedingly well protected during their early phases .
This ma ' be gathered from figs. 92 , u , v , w , in which it will be seen that the leaves closel invest the sporangia on all sides ; it is , moreover , to be remembered that these drawings are not made from the living specimen , but from such as have been treat with various hardening agents which would cause shrinkage ; it is probable that i the living state the chinks between these would be still smaller than as shown in tb drawings .
So close an investment is in broad contrast to the insufficient protectio of the sporangia in L. dichotomum , Selago , and other species .
The sporangium of L. clavatum has been the subject of developmental study 1 Sadebeck ( Schenk 's ' Handbuch , ' vol. 1 , p. 313 ) , who has figured various phases its growth as seen in radial section ; but tangential and transverse sections are n mentioned by him .
In the interpretation of the radial sections he has obviously bee influenced by Goebel 's paper ( ' Bot. Zeit .
' 1880 ) so often referred to in this memoi notwithstanding his working on a different species from Goebel , he still professes a correspondence in results , so far that he refers the sporogenous tissue of L. clavatu to a single hypodermal cell as seen in radial section .
This account is widely diverge from the results which I have obtained , and verified by comparison of radial , tangenti and transverse sections of sporangia in various stages of development .
The difl*|B'-lies in the recognition of the limits of the archesporial tissue ; now it is only comparison of sections of sporangia of various ages cut in different directionatu reliable views can be obtained on the recognition of the archesporium ; the distinctive qualities of the protoplasm and wall are not sufficiently defined in \amp ; earliest stages to make it possible to recognize the limits of the archesporium wi ' certainty by their means .
If , however , a comparison be made between his drawing and those which illustrate the description which I am about to give , it will be se\gt ; that Sadebeok 's drawings of the cell-net were more reliable than his recognition the archesporium .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
\#169 ; sporangium , in this species , arises first as a broad flat growth on the surface of iporophyll .
A radial section through one which has just begun to undergo the ^eristic cell-divisions shows hardly the slightest convexity of the surface ( fig. 56 ) ; Lrt where the sporangium is to be formed is occupied by regularly arranged rficial cells , rather deeper than they are wide ; in these , periclinal divisions begin )pear , of which but one is seen in fig. 56 ; but in fig. 57 two such divisions are die complete , and in a slightly older sporangium , shown in fig. 58 , there are three , is , in fact , the common number of such divisions in the young sporangium as seen dial section , and a comparison of a large number of sections , both at these early is , and also older , leads clearly to the conclusion that the sporogenous tissue is referable in its origin to one cell as seen in radial section , but usually to three , ireful comparison of figs. 56 , 57 , 58 clearly shows that the periclinal divisions are independently in the three superficial cells .
The outer cells thus defined form vail of the sporangium ; they divide first anticlinally , as the sporangium gradually , ges ( fig. 58 ) , then also by periclinal walls ( fig. 59 ) , while the inner layer thus need again divides periclinally ( fig. 60 ) ; the result is as in L. Selago , \amp ; c. , and the e resulting layers develop further in virtually the same way .
The three inner ( fig. 58 ) , undergoing repeated divisions , together form the sporogenous mass 59 , shaded ) , and it is often possible , even in radial sections of advanced stages of dopment , to distinguish these cell-groups , resulting from the division of the three nt cells .
It is to be noted that these cell-groups are of unequal size , the smallest g usually that most remote from the stem ( compare figs. 58 , 59 , 60 ) .
The sub-Lesporial tissue is rather irregular in its further development ; sometimes the limit veen it and the sporogenous tissue is even and regular ( fig. 59 ) ; it often becomes vex as maturity approaches ( fig. 92 , t ) , but it is not unfrequently very irregular , s the case in fig. 60 , where there are sharp angles in the line of limitation of the rogenous tissue , these angles coinciding with the limits of the masses of tissue ived from the three parent cells .
In some sporangia this tissue even grows vards as projecting teeth , which , as the sporogenous cells separate from one another 1 become rounded off , force them aside , and proceed a considerable distance into the , ss .
This point is of interest for comparison with ( see below , p. 526 ) .
Returning to early phases again , abnormal cell-divisions are occasionally met with , 3se are not to be ascribed to oblique cutting of the sections , for the presence of a atinuous vascular strand has in each case been taken as a criterion of the section ing truly in the radial plane .
In such sections it may occasionally be seen that the perficial cells divide again , very early , by periclinal walls ; the inner cells thus rmed ( o , o , figs. 61 , 62 ) are believed to be added to the sporogenous tissue , but lis has not been distinctly proved .
In view of the fact that such additions to the erogenous tissue are constant in Equisetum , as above described , there can be no - priori objection to this view , which will also gain further strength from facts to be lescribed in the case of Isoetes .
Neither Goebel nor Sadebeok gives details of tangential sections ; both leave question open as to the number of cells of which the archesporium is composed indeed , whether all may not be referable to a single parent .
Sajdebeck ( note , loc c^ ' p. 313 ) remarks that this question is unimportant ; to this view I cannot agree .
Tangential sections of sporophylls of about the same age as that shown in fig 55 solve the question at once ( fig. 63 ) ; here the same regularly disposed superficial cells are found , as have been noted in the radial sections ; some of these have already divided by periclinal walls , others are still undivided .
It is plain from such a case as this that a large number of parent cells divide thus to form the internal archesporium and external cells of the wall , and in fig. 63 the number appears to be at least twelve In fig. 64 the archesporium is clearly defined , while the cells of it have already undergone further divisions , and the whole sporogenous mass is beginning to assume the characteristic form already noted .
The cells of the wall have not yet begun to divide in a periclinal manner , but in fig. 65 a still more advanced stage is shown , and a comparison of this with fig. 60 will be found to agree in essential points , though the latter was taken from a slightly older sporangium .
The tangential sections show from the first that the lower limit of the archesporium is not a regular line ; as the sporogenous tissue grows older the limit becomes more irregular , owing to the frequent growth upwards of the sub-archesporial tissue , which extends as more or less projecting processes between the sporogenous cells ; these processes are irregular both in occurrence and form .
Fig. 66 shows one of these in a sporangium in which the spore-mother-cells have not yet separated , or divided into tetrads ; while in fig. 67 a later stage is seen , after the tetrad division ; \#166 ; the cells of the processes are thus beginning to be disorganized , their function as purveyors of nourishment being almost complete .
These figures will supply material for interesting comparisons with similar developments in certain specimens of and in Isoetes ( see p , 526 , 532 ) .
Turning now to transverse sections , we shall seek in them for some corroboration of the results acquired from study of the radial and tangential .
It is to be remembered , however , that the sporangium is a curved body , and , accordingly , that if the central part of the sporangium be cut in a tangential'plane , the parts right and left of it will necessarily be cut obliquely .
That the sporangium is a broad and massive structure is borne out by a superficial section , such as that shown in fig. 68 , which exhibits the external cell-net .
A section of a similar sporangium at a lower level will traverse the sporogenous tissue , as in fig. 69 , and if we imagine this cut in a plane ( x , x ) } the result would be nearly similar to that shown in fig. 58 , the heavier lines in both cases indicating the limits of the original archesporial cells .
Again , at a later stage , the sporogenous tissue is shown in fig. 70 ; the drawing here stops short at the median plane , and it is not difficult to see how this will coincide in all essential points with what is seen in radial section in fig. 59 .
It will be unnecessary to pursue these comparisons further OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
tJLtail , the figures should sufficiently explain themselves to those who are *tnomed to such comparisons .
^ strobilus of L. clavatum is clearly defined from the vegetative region ; it is it| !
on a long , upright stalk , which is covered by small , closely-appressed leaves , actions of the base of the strobilus be examined , imperfect sporangia may qmmtly be found attached to the lower leaves , and corresponding in position , mxh .
not in ultimate development , to normal sporangia .
Similar imperfect spo-II also occur at the upper limit of the strobilus , while the uppermost leaves are njetely sterile .
Comparison of details of sporangial development in L. clavatum , and other species , especially L. Selago .
4.The sporangium is similar in position and in general form to that of i ts body is more strongly curved .
2tThe archesporium here consists of three rows of , each row being composed alarge number ( about 12 ) of cells ; thus the extent of the archesporium is much eaer than in L. Selago : occasional additions to it seem to be made by cells cut off riiinally from the superficial cell at an early stage .
Si The tapetum is similar in origin to that in Selago .
4 The sub-archesporial pad is much more developed , and is at times extended pocesses of tissue which penetrate the sporogenous mass for a short distance .
5 The stalk of the sporangium is much thicker and shorter than in Selago .
\#174 ; Arrested sporangia are frequently present , and may be found either at the base te apex of the strobilus .
6 L. inundatum may be looked upon as an intermediate link between the type of \gt ; omgium of L. Selago and that of L. cl , both as regards form of the )oangium and complexity of the archesporium .
L. alpinum .
L. ahis species shows great similarity to L. cla , both as regards the form of the pcangium and the very complete protection of it while young by the adjoining ptophylls ( figs. 92 , q , r , s ) ; but the stalk of the sporangium is not quite so short , is the sporogenous part so strongly curved , while the sub-archesporial pad does i\#169 ; project so convexly , as seen in the radial section ( fig. q ) .
he sporangium here also originates as a very broad outgrowth , extending from the over numerous cells of the radial section ( figs. 71 and 72 ) .
At least three cells \#169 ; ach radial section are involved in the origin of the archesporium ( figs. 73 , 74 ) , but ih position of the successive divisions does not appear to be strictly fixed , so that it \gt ; slifficult to recognize the limits of the archesporium in very early stages such as MDCCCXC1V.\#151 ; B. 3 X 522 PROFESSOR F. O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY those in figs. 71 and 72 .
Occasionally here also further periclinal divisions appear the superficial cells , by which subsequent additions may be made in the archesporial tissues , as in Equisetum .
The cells marked ( x ) in fig. 74 are believed to be thus added on to the archesporium ; this is , however , unusual .
The further development proceeds in essential points as in L. and it would hardly have been necessary to illustrate it by fig. 75 , had it not been that the vascular bundle showed , in the one case figured , a slight extension upwards toward the sporangium .
I do not wish to make more of this than the facts warrant , but the drawing is a faithful representation of what was seen in this exceptional case .
It jg a matter for remark that these sporangia of though they are of so considerable size , have no vascular supply ; in the whole genus this one case is the only trace I have seen of any extension of the vascular system in the direction of the sporangium .
Tangential sections show that the number of archesporial cells is large ; and fig. 76 , which is at a phase of development intermediate between those of figs. 63 and 64 of L. clavatum , shows very beautifully that the number of these is twelve .
The limit of the sub-archesporial pad often becomes irregular as the development proceeds ; even in an early condition ( fig. 76 ) it is far from being a straight line , but it becomes more irregular with age ( fig. 77 ) , the cells of this sterile tissue forcing their way upwards into the sporogenous tissue , and occasionally forming multicellular processes .
The development of it , however , is not carried to so great an extent as has been already noted in L. clavatum .
Beyond the facts now described , the structure of the sporangium of L. calls for no further remark ; it is obviously similar , in its main aspects , to that ot L. clavatum , notwithstanding the rather marked difference of external appearance oi the two species .
Abortive sporangia are commonly found in this species , both at the upper and lower limits of the strobilus ; they show , perhaps better than in any pther species , the gradual steps of transition from the fully mature to the completely abortive condition .
Selaginella .
In the species of Selaginella which have been examined similar abortive sporangia are found at the base of the strobilus ; the larger the number of examples of this that are disclosed , the more important does it become that some adequate explanation of the phenomenon should be given .
( See below , p. 535 .
) Turning to the development of the normal sporangia in Selaginella , the most exact account hitherto given is that by Goebel ( ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1881 , p. 697 , \amp ; c. ) : he remarks on the difficulty of following the details of segmentation , owing to the small size o the cells ; this may account for the divergence of my results from those of GoB$|| and it should make one cautious in making definite statements on minute details* | OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
lc regards the position of the sporangium of Selaginella , I am able to endorse DX/ g statement ( loc.tit .
, p. 697 ) as to the position of the sporangium in S. B(~S .
spimdosa , A. Br .
= S. selaginoides , Link ) : it originates from a group of Jjf the axis which lie at the axil of the sporophyll ( figs. 80-86 ) , and immediately nVi those which give rise to the leaf itself .
In however ( fig. 78 ) , the sporangium to originate on the axis , distinctly above the sporophyll .
The rdact that there is variety within the genus in this much discussed and greatly 'rated character , should show sufficiently that , however interesting its morpho-ficl bearings may be , it is not a point of much systematic importance .
Tffe sporangium of S. spinosa is eusporangiate , arising from a number of cells , as Mn radial section ; it is possible , however , that these may all be ultimately f#ble in origin to a single cell ( compare figs. 80 , 81 , 82 ) .
The young sporangium ijMhus be recognized in the radial section as consisting of three cells , which early ( ^g ' periclinal divisions to form three cell-rows ( figs. 80 , 82 ) ; these may occa-rnly show anticlinal divisions also ( figs. 81 , 83 ) .
Goebel now describes how Jmiddle row of cells grows more strongly than the peripheral ones , while the pdermal cell of this series forms the archesporium ; # thus , according to his Option , the sporogenous tissue in any radial section is referable to the sub-iton of a single cell .
I do not deny that this may sometimes be the case , but I vinot been able to prove to my own satisfaction that it ever is so .
Fom many specimens which I have seen I find little evidence of the early pre-nerating growth of the middle row ; it appears rather that the three rows grow \gt ; #i equally , while sporogenous tissue originates from at least two of the rows of / Isabove noted ; for instance , in fig. 83 , a continuous wall ( a ?
, a ?
) divides the oingium into almost equal halves ; it is believed that both the cells shaded , iogh derived from different cell-rows , are archesporial cells ; a comparison of ratings of sporangia in older states shows that a continuous wall , occupying an rest median position in the sporangium , is not uncommon ( figs. 84 , 87 , walls axed x ) , and it is believed to correspond to the wall similarly marked in the onger sporangia ( figs. 80 , 82 ) .
If this be so , then , in figs. 83 to 87 , the shaded as of cells must have been derived from at least two of the rows of cells of the onager sporangium .
br confirmation of this result radial sections were also cut from S. , whh species illustrates this point very clearly .
The sporangium originates here rca the axis , distinctly above the subtending leaf ( fig. 78 ) , as an outgrowth of at eat two cells as seen in radial section ; the wall dividing them occupies from the awe a median position , and divides the sporangium into two equal halves ; in this Qfb a comparison of figs. 78 and 79 can leave little doubt that two cell-rows are nrolved in the formation of the archesporium .
t may be noted at once that a similar state of things is seen in Lycopodium * Loc .
cit. , p. 698 , and Schenk 's * Handbuch , ' 111 , p. 388 .
3x2 inundatum ( compare figs. 54 , 55 ) , and that , as regards the origin of the sporangiUm Selaginella seems to correspond more nearly to that species than to any other Lycopodium which has been examined .
Tangential sections of sporangia corresponding in age to those shown in figs. 84-86 demonstrate a similar fan-like tracery to that seen in the sporangia of Lycopodium .
\ have not been able to define exactly the number of primary archesporial cells , owing to the great difficulty of obtaining exact tangential sections of very y0UDg sporangia I believe , however , that the number is not less than three or four ( fig. 88 ) .
W I \^ The further differentiation of the sporogenous tissue and of the tapetum may now be discussed .
Goebel states ( loc. cit. , p. 698 ) that the part of the tapetum which adjoins the Outer wall is separated off from the archesporium , as distinguished from that of Lycopodium , which is derived from the cells of the wall .
Though certainly a large part of the tapetum is so derived , I am not prepared to admit that this is its exclusive source , and find myself unable to endorse the account of the details as given by Goebel .
Taking first S. Martensii , it will be noted that the two superficial cells of the sporangium in fig. 78 are relatively deep ; in fig. 79 , which represents an older sporangium , they are relatively shallow , the cells immediately below them ( i , i ) would , according to Goebel 's description , be derived by division from the internal not from the external cells , but the position of the walls , together with the less dept !
of the superficial cells in the older specimen , seem to indicate that they originati from division of the superficial cells .
I venture to think that Goebel 's owi fig. 14 ( 'Bot .
Zeit .
, ' 1881 , Plate 6 ) is quite open to the same interpretation , and tha the cell marked ( t ) is the result of division from the next outer , and not from the nex : inner cell .
An examination of numerous sections of sporangia of .
als\lt ; strengthens the view that , at times , early periclinal division of the superficial cell may contribute to the internal tissue of the sporangium , though I have not found thi point so clearly demonstrated in this species as in Martensii .
My conclusion ii that the first periclinal division does not constantly define the archesporium , and tin separate the internal mass of the sporangium from the sporangial wall , but that , i observed with constancy in Equisetum , and occasionally in other plants ( and alpinum ) , by periclinal divisions of the superficial cells additions may be subst quently made to the archesporium , but these additions are not constant .
Whatever may be the actual facts on the above point , there can be no doubt tin after the archesporium has grown and undergone further segmentation , periclin* divisions take place in the peripheral cells of the resulting mass of tissue , the !
divisions separate off the tapetum from the sporogenous cells ( figs. 87 , 88 , 89 ) .
as Goebel has already pointed out ( loc. cit. , p. 698 ) the tapetum of Selaginella d\#174 ; e in its mode of origin from that of Lycopodium , but when we look back to the ** phases , and recognize the periclinal divisions discussed in the preceding paragl\amp ; p the distinction of the two types appears to be not so deep a one as he described , OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
ie further facts of differentiation of the sporangia , as mega- and micro-sporangia , well known ; but there is , I believe , no published figure of the early stage of rentiation of the megaspore-mother-cell from the rest ; this is shown in fig. 91 , iving undergone tetrad-division , and beginning to enlarge , while the other cells ie sporogenous mass remain undivided , lose their highly refractive contents , and me disorganized .
It is hardly necessary to remark that here is a further apple of a partial sterilization of the potential sporogenous tissue , and the tapetum klaginella is also another , since , though it is derived by segmentation from the Dgenous mass , its cells take no direct part in the formation of spores .
Summary of Results from Selaginella .
The sporangium is eusporangiate , and arises from the tissue of the axis , above subtending leaf ; the position varies in different species .
The origin of the sporangium is similar to that of Lycopodium , and especially cables L. inundatum , to which species the mature sporangium also is similar in u . . .
Two primary archesporial cells are usually present in each radial section , and ie are derived , as in L. inundatum , from segmentation of two distinct cell-rows ; ieen in tangential section , the archesporium is referable to three or four such .rows . .
The first periclinal divisions in these cell-rows do not always define the lesporium finally ; subsequent periclinal divisions may lesult in addition to the Iral mass , as has been proved for Equisetum ; but here the addition is less regular , i. The tapetum results from tangential division of the outermost cells of the tral mass ; the greater part of it originates as described by Goebel .
\gt ; .
The tapetum is thus a sterilized part of the potential sporogenous tissue ; a there example of sterilization is seen in the megasporangium , wheie all the \gt ; rogenous cells are disorganized , excepting the one mother-cell of the megaspores .
1 .
Abortive sporangia are to be found at the base of the strobilus as in many icies of Lycopodium .
Lepidodendron .
The general characters of the sporangium in Lepidodendron are well known by the nervations of it .
Brown , Sir Joseph Hooker , Williamson , and others ; a concise atement of their results will be found in Solms-Laubach 's * Fossil Botany ( Engl .
d " p. 232 , \amp ; c. ) .
It is to be noted , however , that the comparison with the sporangia i living forms has been limited , partly perhaps owing to the incomplete knowledge f the sporangia of modern Lycopods .
The facts which have been collected and described in the preceding pages make it possible to draw the comparisons closer .
while observation will , at the same time , be more carefully directed to points 0f detail which have hitherto received but slight attention .
The magnificent silieified cones in the British Museum have supplied the most important material .
1 take this opportunity of thanking the Keeper of the Botanical Department , not only for giving the free use of the specimens , but for readily agreeing to my suggestions for cutting new sections of parts of these rare fossils .
Lepidostrobus B , Schpr .
The large specimen of this species purchased for the British Museum in 1843 , is the best preserved which I have seen , probably the best that is known to science .
It is possible- in microscopic sections of the cone to study its parts with the same detail as those of a modern Lycopod , while , since the sections in the British Museum are cut in all three directions , transverse , radial , and tangential , a very satisfactory knowledge of the structure both of the axis and sporophylls , and also of the sporangia , may be acquired .
The radial and transverse sections were made for It .
Brown , and his account of them will be found in the Linnean Transactions ( vol. 20 , p. 469 , Plates 23 and 24 ) .
It is remarkable how little attention has been paid to this memoir , and to the fossil to which it relates ; even Solms-Laubach dismisses it with few words , and with the quotation of two figures which do it but scant justice ( ' Fossil Botany/ Engl .
Ed. , p. 238 , and figs. 25a and 25b ) .
The structure of the axis is not our subject here ; I have given a description of certain details of it elsewhere ( 'Annals of Botany/ 1893 ) ; we are more nearly concerned with the sporophylls and sporangia .
These are of great size ; each sporangium , when mature , being over half an inch in length , more than three-sixteenths in width , and almost of equal depth .
The sporangia are so placed that the longer axis runs in a radial direction ; each is closely applied to the upper surface of the sporophyll throughout the greater part of its length , while the basal portion of the sporophyll is elongated so as to accommodate the large sporangium ( compare It .
Brown 's PI .
23 , B , C , PI .
24 , B ) .
I have hot been able to observe any structure comparable to the ligule in this fossil .
The sporangia are filled with very numerous microspores , which were described and figured by It .
Brown .
Turning to the wall of the sporangium , It .
Brown remarks ( p. 471 ) , that it " appears to be double ; the outer layer being densely cellular and opaque , the inner less dense , of a lighter colour , and formed ot cells but slightly elongated .
" A detailed examination of the sections shows that the wall consisttffbf several layers of cells ( fig. 93 ) , of which the outermost consists of closely disposed j matic cells , the walls of which were apparently much thickened ; within this i|\#187 ; broad band of cells , consisting of four or more layers , with thin walls , and irregular ) but compressed form ; this wall is lined internally by an ill-defined band , wlttfib possibly represents the remains of the tapetum , and it directly adjoins the spoF6s .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
interest of this rather complex structure depends upon comparison ; among the lis species of Lycopodium which have been examined , there are usually three l 0y the Wall , of which the innermost is the tapetum ; but L. dichotomum is an \gt ; tion and it has been shown that in this species the wall is constructed in a ier very like that now described for Lepidost Brownii , though the details \amp ; outer layer are rather different .
Again , a similar structure of the sporangial is found in the Ophioglossacece , a point noted by R. Brown ( loc. p. 471 ) .
ie of the most remarkable features in these sporangia is the existence of irregular sses which spring upwards from the floor of the sporangium , where it adjoins the phyll , and project a considerable distance into the cavity : they were noted it .
, p. 471 ) , and figured ( Plate 24 , fig. B ) , by R. Brown , but appear to have fly escaped the notice of subsequent writers .
They are not scattered indis-nately over the floor of the sporangium , but arise from a projecting ridge , which mmediately above the single vascular bundle of the sporophyll , and follows its ie almost the whole length of the sporangium ; in transverse sections this ridge be seen ( fig. 94 ) , but it is in tangential sections that it will be best recognized 95 , 96 ) , together with the processes of tissue which arise from it and radiate trds into the cavity : it is obvious that the ridge corresponds to the mass of tissue h has been styled the " sub-archesporial pad " in describing the sporangia of um .
These process which thus arise from the sub-archesporial pad are irregular itline and position ; they consist of a parenchymatous tissue , which is directly inuous with the base of the sporangium ( figs. 97 , 98 ) ; the cellular structure , 3ver , cannot always be recognized in the ultimate endings of the process , where appear to have undergone considerable disorganization .
the question now presents itself , V7hat is the real nature of these processes ?
Are r comparable to the trabeculae of Isoctcs , which are the result of partial sterilization , potential archesporium , or are they merely outgrowths from the subarchesporial , such as those already described in certain species of Lycopodium f ( compare davatwm .
figs. 66 and 67 ; and L. alpinum , fig. 77 ) .
This question can only be isively answered by observations of development , which can hardly be expected in ils ; there are , however , facts bearing on the point which may be acquired from apical parts of this remarkable cone ; it will be seen that in fig. 95 , as the apex is .roached , the sporangia are successively smaller ; those close to the apex have been ested in their growth , and appear to contain no spores ; the cavity of the \gt ; rangium is , however , traversed by cellular processes , rising from the base , and sending upwards ( figs. 99 , 100 ) ; apparently these bands of sterile tissue extended the upper wall of the sporangium , but I have been unable to establish beyond ubt the fact of a tissue-connection between them and the wall ; had that been own to exist , the correspondence between these and the sterile trabeculae of Isoetes ^uld have been demonstrated , and , from the appearance of some of the sections , I a inclined to the belief that this is their real nature ; in the absence of such proof it may be held as a possible alternative view , that they are merely upgrowths of thesuk archesporial pad , like those in certain species of Lycopodium , but on a larger scale and that those upgrowths are specially large in the abortive sporangia ; but I think the former view the more probable .
The second specimen of L. Brownii , from Schimper 's collection , and now in British Museum , has been figured by Schimper ( ' Traits/ Plate LXII .
, figs. 13 , 14Y j have to thank the Keeper of the Botanical Department of the Natural History Museum for having this classical fossil cut in tangential section ; the result is to demonstrate the presence of sterile trabeculae similar to those seen in Brown 's cone ( fig. 102 ) .
From the enlarged subarchesporial pad processes of sterile tissue may be seen to arise , and project far into the sporogenous mass ; but no evidence is to be found of the con-tinuation of the trabeculae outwards to the sporangial wall ; it is , however , to be noted in this connection that the cone is not so well preserved as Brown 's cone , and it does not include the apex .
It will be obvious , on comparison of Benatjlt 's figures of L. rouvillei ( ' Course de Bot. Foss .
, ' II .
, Plate 7 , fig. 11 ) , that M. Benault has observed in that species characters similar to those above described .
The presence of these sterile masses , whether they be true trabeculae , or merely upgrowths of the subarchesporial pad , has its physiological interest .
The sporangium is an unusually large one , and the spore-producing mass very bulky ; the difficulties of supply of nourishment to so large a mass are obvious , and would be great !
) diminished by processes of sterile tissue , such as these , extending far into the mass It is further to be noted that they are inserted near to the vascular bundle of th\#171 ; sporophyll , and radiate from it ; there can be little doubt that their function is the ready conveyance of nutrition to the developing mass of spores .
Whether we cai regard them as also performing a mechanical function , in supporting the roof of th\lt ; sporangium in early stages , depends upon the question of the tissue connection , which I have been unable to decide .
Lastly , a formal comparison may be drawn between the sporangium of Lycopodiun and that of Lepidodendron ; at first sight the correspondence does not seem a clos : one .
Comparing the tangential sections , it will be seen that fig. 96 of \lt ; is not unlike fig. 92r of L. alpinum , as regards the form of the sporangium , its rela tion to the sporophyll , and the subarchesporial pad , with its irregular upward pro jections .
The radial and transverse sections , however , differ greatly , for the sporangiur , of Lepidodendron is extended radially , while that of is radially compressed but , after all , this is only a difference on a larger scale , though similar in kind to tha already observed between the different living species of Lycopodium ; I have show that in some species ( e.g. , L. Selago ) the archesporium is represented in radial sectio by a single cell , while in others { e.g. , L. alpinum or L. clavatum ) it is represente1 usually by three .
Why should the limit be three ?
Why not thirty-three ?
Probably some such extravagant extension of the archesporium in a radial directw- OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
ed in Lepidodendron , and its sporangium appears to be of the ordinary Lycopo-js type , but extended greatly in a radial direction , the result being a much ier possible production of spores , accompanied by risks for their proper nourish-\#166 ; while there are special developments to meet those risks , and to provide for the ition of the developing spores .
Other Lepidodendra .
Has long been recognized that all Lepidostrobi do not correspond in the details leir sporangia ; there is a type distinct from which has already been ed and described by Williamson ( Memoir III .
, 'Phil .
Trans./ 162 , 1872 , } Plate 12 , figs. 24 , 25 ) .
This type appears also to be that which chiefly engaged attention of Sir J. Hooker in his memoir in the publications of the Geological -ey of Great Britain , vol. 11 , p. 440 .
Sporophylls with their sporangia similar to e figured by these authors are shown as cut in tangential section in fig. 101 , h is photographed from a specimen of my own , from Hough Hill , Stalybridge , died by Mr. Lomax .
I find the details to correspond to Professor Williamson 's ription ( p. 295 ) ; the wall of the sporangium consists for the most part of only a le layer of hard , prismatic cells , and is , thus , simple in structure as compared i the relatively thick wall of L. Brownii .
The sub-archesporial pad projects only r slightly into the cavity of the sporangium , but from it arises , usually m a median tion , a dark line , readily seen in the photograph , and represented in Williamson 's , 23 , 24 , 25 .
Sometimes there is evidence of its bifurcating at the middle of the rangium , while in other cases it appears of less regular form and position .
Minute mination of the upper part of it does not disclose any definite cell-structure , nparison with the mature microsporangia of Isoetes makes it almost certain that it resents a process of sterile tissue , for in the mature microsporangia of that plant i trabeculae , which are of cellular construction , become so shrivelled that the ividual cells are unrecognizable , the result being closely similar to what is seen in \gt ; rangia of Lepidostrobus ; moreover , an examination of the base of the daik \gt ; cesses in Lepidostrobus shows , at times , evidence of distinct cells ( fig* 102 ) .
es processes thus appear to correspond essentially to those already described in Brownii , though they are less numerous as seen in tangential section .
In a trans rse section of the strobilus , thus traversing the whole length of the sporangium , the own line appears sometimes as a single continuous plate ( compare Williamson s ate 44 , fig. 23 ) , occupying the median plane in each sporangium .
Williamson ascribes each as being tccoextensive with the entire length of the sporangium .
In transverse section of Lepidostrobus , from Hough Hill , Stalybridge , supplied to me f Mr. Lomax , I find the median plate very much as described by Williamson , lough not extending the whole length of the sporangium ( fig* 132 ) .
In another cans verse section of Lepidostrobus , also supplied to me by Mr. Lomax , from^ Hules jate , I find two such brown lines , which run almost parallel for a considerable distance , mdcccxciv.\#151 ; b. 3 Y while a third less continuous line is seen to run for a short distance in a between them ( fig. 133 ) .
Thus we see that in different specimens of Lepidodenfo^ these processes are of variable form , being peg-like upgrowths , or trabecula .
L. Brownii , while in those last described they take the form of continuous plateg The resemblance of these plates to partial septa cannot be overlooked , anSJjJ inconstancy of character is a fact which will have its bearing on our general argmJjT I The question whether these processes are to be looked upon as sub-archesporial fo origin , or as the result of a partial sterilization of the archesporium itself , must here also remain uncertain , in default of developmental data , which are necessary for deciding such a question .
I think , however , that comparisons , on the one hand with L. Brownii , and on the other with Isoetes , justify the conclusion that in these simpler sporangia of Lepidodendron , also , the brown lines represent sterile tissue , which in the course of development of the spores has become disorganized , and the cells shrivelled out of shape .
Summary of Results from Lepidodendron .
1 .
The general arrangement of parts of the strobilus of Lepidodendron corresponds to that of Lycopodium .
2 .
The sporangium is greatly extended in a radial direction , and is to be looked upon as an extreme case of that radial widening of the sporangium which is seen in much less degree in L. clavatum or L. alpinum .
3 .
There are two types of sporangia of Lepidodendron : ( a ) that of L. Brownii in which the sporangial wall is several layers of cells in thickness , and the cavity traversed by rod-like masses of sterile tissue ( trabeculae ) ; ( 6 ) those in which the wal consists of a single layer when mature , and the cavity traversed by one or more irregular plates of sterile tissue , 4 .
These sterile trabeculae , or plates , arise from the sub-archesporial pad , and froir early states of development seen in L. Brownii it seems probable that they are similai in their origin to the trabeculae of Lsoetes , but this has not been proved .
5 .
The physiological importance of these sterile processes projecting into the cavitj of the sporangium is probably to forward supplies of nourishment more readily from the vascular bundle , above which they spring , to the mass of developing spores ; they may also have served a mechanical purpose .
Isoetes Lacustris , L. The genus Isoetes presents points of special interest in connection with the invest* gation upon which we are engaged .
Though the development of the sporangia has been most carefully and successfully wrought out by Professor Goebel ( ' Bot. Zeit .
, 1880 , p. 564 ) , still there are certain details to be added , which are the outcome of mj work in verification of his results .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
afore describing these , a few preliminary remarks will not be out of place .
The tion of the systematic position of Isoetes has recently been re-opened by Professor es ( ' Annals of Botany/ vol. 2 , p. 117 ) , and on various comparative grounds he s that Isoetes should be included in the Filicinese , having more special affinities the Eusporangiate Ferns .
He still admits , however , that " there is some affinity reen Isoetes and the Lycopodinse " ( loc. cit. , p. 123 ) .
I think that the comparison Lepidodendron , rather than with modern Lycopods , greatly strengthens the ity with the Lycopodinse , more especially the comparison of their sporangia .
I 5 already stated in the introductory pages of this memoir that I attach greater ffit to the characters of the sporangium than to those of other parts of the ophyte , and accordingly I am disposed to recognize a nearer affinity of Isoetes to Lycopodinse than Professor Vines would do .
The description of details now to riven will , X think , justify this view .
he sporangium of Isoetes obviously corresponds in position to that of , igh it differs from it in form .
It arises from the upper surface of the sporophyll , point between the ligule and the base of the leaf .
Goebel ascribes the sporan-n to a group of cells , which extend , and divide by periclinal walls , and he continues , b according to his observations on Isoetes lacustris , it is usually the three upper- , t layers of cells which give rise to the sporangium .
For purposes of comparison ti the Lycopodinse , it is desirable to trace the origin of the sporangium back to ier phases than that where it consists of three layers of cells .
The stage shown in 104 will serve as our starting point ; the superficial series of cells lying at the \gt ; er surface of the leaf , between the ligule ( l ) , and the base , here represent the ent cells of the sporangial wall and of the archesporium ; the cell ( V. ) , which gives } subsequently to the " velum/ ' must , however , be excepted .
These cells divide by iclinal walls , and also anticlinally , to form two layers ; the outer contributes the 11 of the sporangium , the inner is the archesporium ( fig. 105 , shaded ) .
As m the e of other sporangia , so here also the question arises whether the first periclinal dsion of the superficial cells clearly and finally divides the wall from the arch irium , or whether further periclinal divisions in the former contribute additions to e latter .
We have already seen that such additions are made with constancy in piisetum , while occasional and irregular periclinal divisions appear also m young orangia of Lycopodium and Selaginella .
Goebel has noticed such divisions curring in the sporangium of Isoetes ( Schenks ' Handbuch , 3 , p. 92 ) , and *marks that this doubling of the layer of the wall is very common , though not so igular as in Lycopodium ; evidently he regards it merely as a division of the wall of ae sporangium into two layers .
I also find periclinal division of superficial cells , after be first formation of the archesporium , to be not uncommon ; it is to be noted , how-ver , that such divisions occur at very early stages in the development of the sporangium ; their common occurrence then ( figs. 106-108 ) , and the much less common appearance of the doubling of the superficial layer of the wall at older stages ( such as that shown in fig. 109 ) , make it seem probable that the inner cells-thus produced contributed to the sporogenous mass .
It is difficult to bring forward on this point , since the occurrence of such divisions is less regular than in Equities* .
A comparison of figs. 106-108 , however , makes it appear extremely probable that th cells marked ( X ) in them are actually such additions to the sporogenous tissue ceeding from a second periclinal division of certain of the superficial cells .
Be this as it may , the result of the segmentation is normally the formation of a superficial layer of cells forming the wall , while the subjacent cells , at first a simple row , become again divided by both periclinal and anticlinal walls , so as to constitute a continuous band several layers of cells in thickness ( compare fig. 105 with figg 106-108 , and again with fig. 109 ) .
Below the archesporium a mass of tissue is found intervening between it and the vascular bundle ; as the sporangium grows this increases greatly in bulk , and forms the subarchesporial pad .
It is to be noted that the sporangium does not extend the whole distance from the ligule to the base of the frond ; the cell marked V ( fig. 104 ) develops into the velum which intervenes between the ligule and the sporangium ; also towards the base of the sporangium , a greater or less interval of sterile tissue is present from the first ( figs. 105-109 ) .
A comparison may now be drawn between the earliest stage of the sporangium of Isoetes ( fig. 104 ) and that of Lycopodium ; in certain species of the latter it has been shown that the sporangium is referable in its origin to a single cell as seen in radial section , and that a single archesporial cell is at a rather later stage disclosed in such sections ( A. Selago , \amp ; c. ) .
In another species ( .inundatum ) the sporogenous tissue is referable to two cells as seen in radial section , while in others ( X. clavatum and L. alpinum ) the radial section traverses three original parent cells , all of which contribute to the sporogenous tissue .
In Isoetes lacustris the whole plant may be regarded as a strobilus ; most of its leaves are sporophylls ; when one of these is cut in radial section the position of the sporangium relatively to it is very similar to that of the corresponding parts in Lycopodium , but a larger number of ultimate parent cells take part in forming the sporangium , the number traversed by the radial section being about four or five ; this difference is , however , in accordance with the hemispherical form of the mature sporangium .
The result of the earlier segmentation is , as in Lycopodium , the formation of a continuous sporogenous mass , protected by a simple outer wall .
A comparison of figs. 104-106 of Isoetes with figs. 56-58 of L. , and with figs. 72-74 of L. alpinum , will show how close is the similarity of first origin of the sporangia in these plants .
Goebel has already traced the differentiation of the potential archesporium of Isoetes to form , on the one hand the sterile trabeculae , and the tapetum , and , on the other , the megaspores or microspores .
I may be excused for dwelling again upon this point since it provides a most important link in the chain of my argument .
Id fig. 109 the potential archesporium of a microsporangium is shown , of very considerable extent , but still undifferentiated ; it enlarges further , and the cells show furthei " B the tissue meanwhile undergoing the differentiation described by Goebel Zeit ' 1880 p. 565 ) to form the sterile trabeculae { tr.tr .
, fig. 110 ) , and the sporogenous'masses ( *. .
fig- HO ) ; a layer of cells adjoining the wall of the ngium is meanwhile divided off , and may be recognized as the tapetum ( \#171 ; .
, L0 ) .
this layer very soon divides periclinally mto two .
filar results are naturally to be obtained from transverse sections ( fig. Ill ) ; in the trabeculae are seen radiating , as it were , from the slightly convex , sub-sporial pad , which intervenes between the sporogenous tissue and the vascular le of the sporophyll .
This figure is added for purposes of comparison with oodium and , if we refer back to fig. 43 of L. Selago or fig. 64 of L. clavatum , the less of the similarity between them will be sufficiently plain .
The potential sporium of Isoetes clearly corresponds to the curved sporogenous mass of Lycorn the chief difference lying in the differentiation of the former into sterile culie and sporogenous masses .
In fact , if we imagine a heterosporous Lycopod its sporangium widened out radially , and its enlarged sporogenous mass partly .ized so as to form trabeculae , the result would be practically what is seen in es lacustris . . .
" ... .
, is often wrongly assumed that the sporangia of Isoetes are actually partitioned , some of the published drawings , if not corrected by description , support this . .
The trabeculae are not partitions , but , as their name implies , rods of tissue h radiate upwards from the subarchesporial pad ; they are frequently very mar both in number and form ; though , in our figs. 110 and 111 more regular aples have been chosen , the specimen drawn as fig. 112 will sufficiently show .
irregular branchings as may occur , while the structure of them is displayed more etail in fig. 113 ; here the spore-mother-cells have separated from one another and ided off ; the tissues forming the trabecula* have differentiated into a superficial turn , here shaded , and central parts which remain after the tapetum becomes dis-mized .
As the sporangia approach maturity all that remains ' * e \#174 ; cu * he shrivelled central part , from which , as the spores ripen , the ce con en s a traeted , so that even the cell-structure is difficult to make out ( fig. 115 ) .
n ; is te a comparison may be made with what has already been seen in o ^ .
* ig .
115 of Isoetes be put side by side with fig. 102 of the similarity excessively striking .
I think the conclusion may fairly bo drawn that the processes served in the sporangium of Lepidodendron are essentially similar to t e tra Isoetes , though we note differences of detail in their distribution in the two \gt ; d though we are not in a position to state that their development m p ndron is like that in Isoetes .
_ j .
11 When further the form of the sporangium in the two cases is compare , especia y ie large area and radial extension , it may be concluded that Lepidodendron presents laraeters of the sporangium more closely similar to those of Isoctes than dees a y of the living Lycopods ; this comparison materially strengthens the affinity of T with the Lycopodinae .
The description above given relates both in Lepidodendron and in to tb microsporangium ; as regards the megasporangium of the latter plant , I have nothi^ material to add to the excellent description of Goebel , beyond saying that I ain abb to confirm his results ; the differentiation of the potential archesporium into gjfflj trabeculae and fertile spore-mother-cells is clearly similar to that in the mini sporangium .
In both cases a partial sterilization of the potential archesporium is be traced .
Summary of Results from Study Isoetes .
( 1 .
) The sporangium of Isoetes corresponds in position on the sporophyll to thato the Lycopods , in form it compares more nearly with Lepidodendron .
( 2 .
) It originates from superficial cells of the basal part of the sporophyll , which divide periclmally and anticlinally , forming the superficial wall , and subjacent arch sporium .
( 3 .
) Additions appear to be sometimes made to the sporogenous tissue by sub sequent periclinal divisions of superficial cells , as in and occasionally ii Selaginella and Lycopodium .
( 4 .
) The sporogenous tissue is later differentiated into sterile trabeculae and spore producing masses ; the former are derived by sterilization of potential archesporia1 cells .
( 5 .
) The trabeculae resemble in structure and function those of Lepidostrobw Broumii .
Theoretical Consideration of the Results Acquired by Study of the Living Lycopods , Lepidodendron and Isoetes .
We have now examined a considerable number of forms , living and fossil , which are more or less closely allied to one another , and may venture upon some theoretics conclusions which may be drawn from the study of them .
It is , meanwhile , to b remembered that such organisms as these which have been studied are general !
believed to represent very ancient types ; this may be concluded both on comparative and on palaeontological grounds .
It was assumed at the outset that , other things being equal , it is a distine advantage to an organism to increase the number of spores produced ; we ma ; specially examine these plants from this point of view , and consider how the ; severally illustrate the balance of two conflicting factors , viz. , ( 1 ) the advantage c increased spore-production , ( 2 ) the risk of damage , and the difficulty of nutrition c large masses of sporogenous tissue , especially at the period of the tetrad-division when the cells of the sporogenous mass do not form a coherent and firm tissue .
OF SPORE-PRODtJOING MEMBERS .
reasons above stated ( p. 506 ) , Phylloglossum is regarded as a primitive , rather educed form ; its small and comparatively simple strobilus is , on our working thesis the counterpart of a sporogonial head , which in this plant is separated lie by the intercalary growth of the axis , from the protocorm with its proto-s The sporangium of Phylloglossum is not in any sense an extreme type , r as regards size , or peculiarity of form ; it seems not improbable that it may sent something like the original Lycopodinous sporangium , though there is no ite proof that it is the original type .
, ; -posing it to be so , and its whole strobilus to be really a primitive type , let us Lne in what ways the increase in spore-production might be effected , and then re whether any of these are exemplified by plants before us .
We may imagine the spore-production might be increased .
) By lengthening and even branching of the strobilus , and increase of the number orophylls and sporangia produced in ordinary sequence .
\ By increase in size of the individual spoiangium .
) By formation of adventitious sporangia in places where they were not pre-fiy produced .
re will consider each of these separately .
^ ^ .
) The third head may be at once dismissed ; within the Lycopods and allied s which we are considering , no adventitious sporangia have been observed .
Lengthening and branching of the strobilus has probably been a potent factor le production of the large Lycopodinous forms from a simpler ancestry ; # whether ot Phylloglossum really represents , or is at all like such ancestors , it is not to be bted that earlier ancestors were simpler than they , and it has been already arked that the structure and development of its strobilus show facts not incom-ble with the recognition of its strobilus as the counterpart of a sporogonial head , s not difficult to realize how a strobilus , gifted with continued apical growth , and ower of branching ( as is foreshadowed in the sporangia of some Bryophytes as a 3 abnormality , and also is seen in fig. 23 in Phylloglossum ) might form a larger nber of sporangia than its predecessors , and the total output of spores be thus reased .
But to nourish the increasing number of spores , increased vegetative / elopment will be needed : this need is not met in the Lycopods by increase of the *etative development of the sexual , but of the non-sexual generation , and on com rative grounds it appears to me probable that an increased assimilative power was paired by them in the following most interesting way .
It is a familiar fact that rtain species of Lycojpodium have alternating sterile and fertile zones , examining e limits of the fertile zones , the sporangia , though present , are abortive , in the 'esenee of these arrested sporangia I believe that we have evidence that the who e quence of sterile and fertile zones is the result of partial sterilization of a primitive irobilus , all potentially fertile , but of which parts are sterilized , and carry on merely * See footnote , p. 484 , PROFESSOR F. 0 .
BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY a vegetative function ; the evidence of its potential fertility is to be found * sporangia present in the axils of many of the vegetative leaves , though arrested** their development at a very early stage in Selago , dichotonum carinatum ) .
In such species there is thus seen a primitive and incomplete differen tiation of vegetative from sporogenous parts , and I see no improbability , but rathe ' all evidence in favour of the view that the former are the result of sterilisation of 4 latter .
The physiological advantage is too obvious to need lengthy explanatio^ while , as the apex of the axis in these species retains its power of continued growth* the production of spores may be carried on without definite limit .
In other species the differentiation of the sterile and fertile zones is more complete the latter appearing as clearly defined strobili alpinum , Selaginelh Martensii , spinosa ) .
It has been repeatedly noted in the above pages that arrested sporangia are present at the base of the strobilus of such plants , they are also found at the apex .
In the latter position they would be generally accepted as potential sporangia , arrested owing to insufficient supply of nourishment .
I now suggest that the arrested sporangia at the base of the strobilus are to be explained in the same way , though they bridge over the limit between the sporophyll and the true foliage leaf .
The correlation of growth is often very marked , e.g. , in L. where the foliage leaves are relatively large , while the sporophylls are small : such forms might be regarded as those most advanced in point of differentiation .
I see no other way of explaining the presence of these abortive sporangia at the base of the strobilus , unless they be accepted as " prophetic germs , " a suggestioi which will not readily commend itself .
And thus the general conclusion may be approached , which would well explain the facts , though it must only be held as at hypothesis , viz. , that , exclusive of the protocorm and protophylls , the plant of Lyco podium or of Selaginella may be looked upon as the result of elaboration of c strobilus by continued apical growth and branching ; that parts of the strobilm ( usually the basal part , but sometimes alternating zones ) became sterilized , th\lt ; sporangia arrested , or entirely aborted , and these parts carry on the assimilating function , and supply nourishment to the residuary , fertile portions ; these , in moden Lycopodia , appearing as the recurring fertile zones or as distinct strobili .
Briefly put we see in Lycopodium evidence that the ordinary foliage leaf is a sterilized sporophyll There is , I think , no inherent improbability in this theory , while it explains the presence of the arrested sporangia , which would otherwise be unintelligible .
We may now picture to ourselves how , from a simple form , such as the larger Lycopods may have arisen by elongation and branching of the strobilus , anei increase in number of sporophylls and sporangia , and , further , by partial sterilizatioJ of the strobilus .
As an objection to this theory it may be urged that it implies an antithesi between the protophylls and the ordinary vegetative leaves ; that antithesis is , how ever , sufficiently clear in Phylloglossum , which , on other grounds , is marked out a ; OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
r probably a primitive type of Lycopod .
I do not wish , however , to press this hesis too far ; if we keep in view , for purposes of comparison , the case of the phyta , it will be remembered that the distinction between the seta and the lie is not always a very distinct one , and this may also have been the case in \gt ; rogenitors of the Lycopodinous series .
Having now considered the first means by which greater spore-production it be promoted , viz. , by increase in number of sporangia produced in ordinary 3nce , and having seen that it has probably been exemplified in Lycopodium and pnella , we may consider the second , viz. , increase in size of the individual mgium .
This may involve any one or all of the dimensions5* of the sporangium ; the sporogenous tissue might be extended ( a ) in a radial direction , as regards whole strobilus , or ( b ) in a tangential , or ( c ) it might be deepened , while ning the same area on the sporophyll ; or there may be various combinations ) , ( 6 ) , and ( c ) .
ithin the genera , Lycopodium and Selaginella , the depth ( c ) of the sporogenous , remains more constant than the other dimensions of the sporangium , and the ssporium is , with the exception of a few abnormal cases , defined by the first final wall .
There is apparently a physiological explanation of the fact that the h of the sporogenous mass is almost uniform ; the limit is probably imposed he difficulty of transmission of nutritive materials upwards from the sub-arche-ial pad throughout the developing sporogenous mass : this point will not efore be considered further at present .
he radial ( a ) and tangential ( b)dimensions are , however , less constant , and the nations in the genera in question are of importance as leading to a comparison i other forms .
aking first ( a ) , the radial dimension , we see in and in L. Set ago , others , that the sporogenous tissue is referable in the radial section to a single and these species have a comparatively narrow , radially compressed sporangium ; there species , the base of the sporangium is broader , and the sporogenous tissue is rable to two ( X. inundatum and Selaginella ) or even to three cells ( L , clavatum alpinum ) in each radial section .
The fluctuations , which are thus comparatively Ling in Lycopodium , acquire a new interest when the sporangia of Lsoetes and of hdodendron are compared .
In the former , the mature sporangium is rather like oval cake , with its major axis in the radial direction , the sporangium not being ially compressed as in Lycopodium .
Obviously here is an increased accommodate for spore-production as compared with Lycopodium , brought about by increase the radial dimension .
The development bears this out , for the archesporium is It is to be noted that the comparison is not based upon absolute measurement , which might misleading , but rather upon tissue-complexity ; one spore-mother-cell , though a small one , will give e to four spores , which , though small , may yet serve to produce four new individuals , just as well as ir large ones .
MDGCCXCIV .
\#151 ; B. 3 Z referable to a considerable number of cells in each radial section .
Finally , in rJL i dendron , this radial extension attains its maximum , the mature sporangia bein^ !
than three times as long ( radially ) as they are broad ( tangentially ) , and the poaXjl of production of large numbers of spores is thus greatly increased .
Turning now to ( b ) , the tangential dimensions , considerable fluctuations are to be found in our series .
Perhaps the simplest case is that where the sporogenous tissue appears to be referable in tangential section to two cells .
\#165 ; m{ to Selaginella spinosa , it is referable to three or four ; in it is referable ^ about six ; in L. clavatum and alpinum , about twelve .
These figures , relating ag they do to early stages of development , give , nevertheless , a clue to the final form-and dimensions of the sporangia : while the sporangium of Selaginella is very little extended tangentially , and hardly shows any trace of the kidney-like form , that of L. clavatum assumes the form of an inverted U ( fig. 92 , c , c ) , The behaviour of the sub-archesporial pad is also worthy of note , since , in such forms as the last , it attains a very .considerable degree of development , and projects far upwards into the cavity of the sporangium .
It is thus seen that the various dimensions of the sporangium are susceptible of fluctuations , in different genera and species , and , as one or more of the dimensions is increased , the individual sporangium may attain , when mature , a very considerably increased size , e.g. , those of Isoetes and Lep But when this is the case the enlarged sac is exposed , both to risks of damage from without and to difficulties from within in the supply of nourishment to the large mass of developing spores .
It is doubtless , these two factors which have led to those peculiar developments known as the trabeculae of Isoetes , and the somewhat similar growths now described for Lepido dendron .
In neither of these plants do the sporangia appear to be completely partitioned ; but bands , or plates of sterile tissue ( trabeculae ) spring from the sub archesporial pad , and pass upwards through the sporogenous tissue , and , at least ii Isoetes , are continuous to the upper wall of the sporangium , but it has not beei possible to prove this continuity in the case of Lepidodendron .
Small upgrowths oi a somewhat similar nature have been found at times in L. clavatum and The physiological importance of these is .plain ; they probably serve as channels fo ; conveyance of nutritive materials into the very mass of developing spores , and they increase the available surface of such transmission .
It is specially interesting to nob their presence in those Lycopod-sporangia which are the largest , and most extended in a radial direction .
In L. clavatum and alpinum ( and , perhaps , also in ) the trabecula appear to be mere upgrowths from the sub-archesporial pad .
In Lsoetes , however , i was shown by Goebel , and now amply verified , that they are formed by sterilizatioi of part of a potential archesporium ; here they are continuous to the upper wall , an\#171 ; probably serve also a mechanical purpose .
It has been suggested that they serve aS props of the wall at the time when the sporogenous .
mass is semi-fluid ( Farmer OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
ajg 0f Botany/ vol. 5 , p. 49 ) ; they may so act , but the peculiar dimpled appear-liften seen in the upper surface of a microsporangium , would rather suggest that aet as stays , in fact similarly to the trabeculse of as suggested by E ( ' Pringsh.5 Jahrb./ vol. 21 , p. 272 ) , and are , at the critical period , in a state of Isoetes the trabeculse are not uncommonly connected either by their branchlets 112 113 ) , or laterally along a considerable distance so as to form plates , which also be connected with the walls .
Such appearances suggest an approach to a bioned state of the sporangium , which , however , has not been found in any of jlants hitherto considered .
The advantages of a partitioned condition , where sporangium is large , are plain enough ; not only would the nutritive surface ning the developing spore be enlarged , but mechanical strength would be led to the large developing sac , and , finally , while a single puncture of the large septate sporangium by animal , or other agency , would probably destroy the e mass of spores , if the sporangium were septate only one compartment would r. It is clear then that where the size of sporangia is larger , the advantage of a ite condition will become greater .
These considerations , together with the facts n from Isoetes , suggest the question whether such partitioned sporangia of the ipodinous type occur , and , if so , in what plants % striking answer to this question is , I believe , to be^ found in a genus of 3podineous affinity , in which the sporangium is extended m the radial direction , have already noted fluctuations in this dimension within the genus Lycopodium ipare figs. 36 , 58 , 73 ) , while Isoetes in which the potential archesponum is tally sterilized to form the trabeculse , is a still more pronounced example among lg plants .
As will now be explained at length , it is m Tmesiptens that we 3ar to find a comparatively simple septate sporangium , or synangium\#151 ; which , on ground of the above considerations , appears to be a more efficient type of struction than such trabecular sporangia as are seen in Isoetes or PSILOTACEiE .
Che Psilotaceae are a family which occupies a place somewhat apart from other copodinese , though they are usually classed with them ; their conformation is^ in -ny ways distinct from that of other forms , while the two genera of the family , Psilotum and Tmesipteris , show fundamental similarity to one another , though Eficiently distinct in details .
It is probably owing to their somewhat separate position , and their mark culiarities , that they have been the subject of frequent discussion , both from the irely morphological , and also from the systematic point of view .
The morphological seussions have chiefly centred round the spore-bearing members ( synangia or lorangiophores ) ; it is unnecessary to criticise in detail the views which are , or 3 z 2 540 PROFESSOR F. O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY have been held , for this has already been done most admirably by Solms-L H ( 'Ann .
d. Jard .
Bot. d. Buitenzorg/ 4 , p. 139 , \amp ; c. ) , while a very complet^T* literature up to the date of his writing is given , together with brief critical ** 'f as an appendix to his memoir ( loc cit. , p. 187 ) .
Since then further obserTf ^ have been made by M. Dangeard ( 'Le Botaniste/ sSrie 2 , May , 1891 ) a Mr. Vaughan Jennings ( 'Proc .
Boy .
Irish Acad./ series III .
, vol. 2,1891 ) but V statements do not materially alter the position , or determine the points at * It is to be remarked that , notwithstanding all that has been written , the know]2* of the facts of development of the peculiar spore-bearing members is still incompkf their mature structure has been described and figured with all necessary detail h M. Bertrand ( 'Arch .
Bot. du Nord./ vol. 1 , p. 457 , for and p 528 fo Tmesiptens ) , and others ; the external form of the developing organs has been beautifully illustrated for Psilotum by Solms-Laubach cit. , Plate 23 ) , anJE-Bertrand { loc. cit. , p. 462 , fig. 199 ) ; drawings have also been made of the young sporangiophores of Tmesipteris by Goebel ( ' Bot. Zeit , / 1881 , Plate 6 , fig. 12 ) , ^ by Jennings : but the internal details are very incompletely known , the only accounts hitherto published being those of Juraniyi ( ' Bot. Zeit./ 1871 ) , which is not illustrated , and of Goebel ( 'Bot .
Zeit./ 1881 , p. 688 , Plate 6 , figs. 9-12 ) .
Thus there is need for the subject to be taken up afresh , and the internal details of development to be described , before the morphological question can be finally decided .
The chief views as to the nature of the sporangiophores are these : ( l ) that the whole sporangiophore is a single appendicular ( foliar ) member , ( 2 ) that it is a structure of reduced type , consisting of an axis bearing a terminal synangium , and two leaves .
The former view ( 1 ) was held by all the older morphologists ; it was accepted by Mettenius ( 'Bot .
Zeit./ 1867 , p. 98 ) , and by Luerssen , and has been most ably defended , on the basis of observations of external form during development , by Graf Solms ( loc. cit. ) .
The second view was propounded by Juraniyi ( 'Bob Zeit./ 1871 , p. 177 ) , and has been adopted by Goebel on the basis of his own observations ( 'Bot .
Zeit./ 1881 , p. 689 ) .
The arguments have turned upon the position of the organic apex of the whole lateral structure , and the relations of the other parts to it in point of time and place of their first appearance .
Obviously , this may be determined either by external observation or by histological analysis of the developing parts , but best by a combination of both methods .
Juraniyi and Goebel state that the synangium is actually terminal on the sporangiophore , and this view is very distinctly stated also by M. Bertrand ( ' Arch. Bot. du Nord/ vol. 1 , p. 463 ) .
Graf Solms , however ( loc. cit. , p. 180 , and Plate 23 ) , has also described and illustrated the external characters for while , at the same time , he suitably7 criticises the results of other observers which differ from his own .
He finds that the sporangiophore first makes its appearance as a lateral flat extension of the growing point of the shoot , which is soon separated OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
hhe latter by a very shallow groove : at this time the young sporangiophore has me-like form , being slightly channelled on the upper surface .
In the middle of light median channel a hat upgrowth appears , and this is the young synangium , thus arises , according to Solms , from the upper surface of the sporangiophore .
he basis of these observations he maintains the older foliar view of the ngiophore .
r purpose will now be to see how far the study of radial sections , traversing the of the axis and the very young sporangiophores , will bear out this account of svelopment .
Of the two genera the parts in Psilotum are more shortly stalked r mature state than those of Tmesipteris : the leaf-lobes of the latter are larger , the loculi of the synangium , being only two , and both in the median plane , this is clearly the one which will more readily yield results from longitudinal , ns .
Psilotum , on the other hand , having a trilocular synangium , will be lit to work in longitudinal section , and only one of the three loculi can possibly tt fairly in its median plane in any one section .
Accordingly , as both genera been studied , the description of the results for will be given first .
\gt ; bservations were chiefly made on material supplied by Mr. Vaughan Jennings ; e also to acknowledge specimens from Mr. G. M. Thomson , sent direct from New ud , while one fine apical bud was cut by Professor I. Bailey Balfour from i.ving plant in the Edinburgh Botanic Garden .
Tmesipteris .
ie apical cone of the plant is very variable in bulk : in strong young shoots it may , broad dome ( fig. 118 ) , while in weaker specimens , or those in which apical rth is beginning to fail , it may be comparatively narrow .
In the large as well as small specimens a single initial is usually present ( x , fig. 118 ) , but its segmenta-does not appear to be strictly regular , and it is difficult to refer the whole istem to the activity of one parent cell .
This conclusion is borne out by the iarance of the apex as seen from above ( fig. 119 ) , when the initial is seen to have form of a three-sided pyramid , but the tissue around it is not readily to be ; elled out into groups derived from regular segments : secondary initials ( cells ked o ) also occur frequently .
It will be noted that these results materially icide with those obtained by Solms for Psilotum ( loc. at .
) .
\gt ; assing from the actual apex the sides of the cone are covered externally by deep imatie cells , which are of somewhat irregular origin , depth , and arrangement .
en a leaf or sporangiophore is about to be formed certain of these increase in size , 1 undergo both periclinal and anticlinal divisions so as to form a massive outgrowth ; s. 120-121 ) , the summit of which is occupied , as seen in radial section , by a single ger cell of a wedge-like ( fig. 120 , 123 ) or prismatic ( fig. 121 ) form : it is not probable that the latter passes over to the wedge-like form as the part develops .
542 PROFESSOR F. O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY A transverse section of the axis passing through such a young leaf does not Jk any marked feature ( fig. 122 ) .
In these early states I find it impossible to ' whether the part in question will be a vegetative leaf or a sporangiophore , and ^ when older it is still a matter of uncertainty ; it is , however , believed thitfij\#163 ; j represents a foliage leaf , and is to be so recognized by the narrow form which bee# ' !
more pronounced in the older vegetative leaves : those , however , which are to faT as sporangiophores , soon show an increase in thickness , while they grow less in lentf !
an excrescence of the adaxial surface soon becomes apparent ( fig. 124 ) , in which||j superficial cells are chiefly involved : the lower limit of the tissues resulting their divisions is shown by a heavy line in figs. 120 , 121 , 124 , and 125 , and fife j comparison of these it will be plain that , while the essential parts of the synangium are derived from the superficial cells of the young leaf , the subjacent cells also bear a part , forming a sub-archesporial pad ( p. , fig. 125 ) .
The superficial cells at first form a rather regular series ( fig. 120 ) , which may be compared with the cells which gfo rise to the sporangia in Lycopodium clavatum , or in Isoetes : they undergo more oi less regular divisions ( fig. 124 ) , which , however , I have been unable to follow in detail a band of tissue some four or more layers in depth is thus produced .
At about this period certain masses of cells assume the characters of a sporogenous tissue ( figs. 125 125 bis , shaded cells ) ; but though they can be recognized as such by the character of the cells , it is exceedingly difficult to define the actual limits of these sporogenous masses .
The more superficial tissues , as well as the band intervening between th two sporogenous masses remain sterile , the latter developing into the septum , whil the former develop into the walls of the synangium : it is specially to be noted thai the origin of the tissue of the sterile septum , which separates the sporangia , seems t : be similar to that of the sporogenous masses themselves .
I have not been able to decide whether the archesporium is here defined at once bi the first periclinal division of the superficial cells ( fig. 120 ) , or whether successive additions are made to the sporogenous tissue by subsequent periclinal divisions c superficial cells , as in Equisetum , and in a less degree in Isoetes and Selaginella .
i am , however , inclined to think the latter to be the case , since in such examples a that shown in fig. 124 , the superficial cells are very deep , while the lower cells are not sc As the development proceeds , the original arrangement of the cells becomes dis turbed by unequal growth ( fig. 126 ) ; the more superficial layers develop into th rather massive wall , and the cells immediately surrounding the sporogenous mass become compressed , and ultimately disorganized .
It has been above noted that it i difficult to recognize with certainty the exact limits of the sporogenous masses in th synangia ( compare fig. 126 ) : this is probably due to the fact that there is no verj clearly defined tapetum , nor is the whole of the sporogenous mass used up in th : actual formation of spores , but a considerable proportion of the cells composing il acting as a diffused tapetum , become broken down , and disappear in a manner simile to that to be described more in detail in Psilotum ( p. 549 ) .
OF SPOKE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
Hilly , a strand of vascular tissue , of which the origin may be traced in figs. 124 , 126 , is formed , extending up the sporangiophore ; on entering the synangium , it l tip to the base of the septum , and there branches right and left , the two h-bundles traversing the margins of the septum ( compare figs. 146-148 ) .
sen mature , the wall of the synangium consists of a superficial layer of deep with thick cell-walls ( figs. 146-148 ) , which are similar to those of the wall of sporangium of Lepidostrobus Brownii ( fig. 93 ) , and as in that fossil , so in interis , a band of thinner-walled compressed cells , three to four layers thick , sup the superficial layer internally ( fig. 146 ) .
These cells have pitted walls , and are ^finitely limited internally , but irregular tatters of cell-wall project into the y 0f* the synangium , showing thus that there is no clear limit between the wall e synangium and the tapetum .
e septum shows in the main a structure similar to this inner band of the wall , which it is continuous ; it consists of a firm plate of narrow tabular cells , four to iyers in thickness , with profusely pitted , woody walls .
The septum is also coated ie remains of thinner-walled disorganized cells .
As already noted , the branches te vascular bundle which enters the synangium pass right and left up the margin le septum ( fig. 148 ) ; these bundles are seen as bands of tracheides ( fig. 146 ) in averse sections through the lower part of the septum ; the bundles are not sharply rentiated from the surrounding tissues , and it appears to consist only of xylem .
imber of tracheides , continuous with the bundle , extend along the central part of septum ; and from the position of the bundle , it appears to belong to the septum , er than the external wall of the synangium .
Moreover , it will subsequently be that the branch vascular bundles are absent in those abnormal synangia in which septum is wanting or incomplete .
urning now to sections in other directions , if a synangium be cut vertically ( along \e x , x , fig. 125 ) , the appearance presented is as in fig. 127 ; are the lateral ss ( leaves of some writers ) , which grow out right and left from the summit of the rangiophore .
The shaded cells are the sporogenous mass , and the arrangement of walls supports rather than discountenances the view that the arcliesporium is not ned by the first periclinal division of superficial cells ; it is easy to see the corre ndence between figs. 127 and 125 .
.f the sporangiophore be cut through transversely , the appearance at successive ss would be such as is shown in figs. 128-131 .
When very young the outline of s section will be oval ( fig 128 ) , the lateral lobes not having as yet appeared .
the Is adjoining the axis may be recognized as those which will form the sporangium , must be noted that they are necessarily cut obliquely , as reference to fig. 124 will ow ; hence the superficial cells appear shallower than they really aie .
MThen there older ( fig. 129 ) the formation of the leaf-lobes will have begun { l , l ) , which ten proceeds rapidly ( fig. 130 ) .
Meanwhile the sporangium ( in these transverse motions it is the lower of the two loculi of the sporangium which is cut through ) 544 PROFESSOR F. O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY becomes broadly convex , and the steps of the development , as shown in figs. 13il 1 will be seen to coincide with what has been already stated for the radial section13 .
The above descriptions are based entirely upon the developmental study of yJ specimens of Tmesipteris ; whatever value readers may be disposed to aco\#171 ; | evidence from examination of abnormalities , it is of importance to see what it an$p ^ to , since such evidence has been repeatedly used by previous writers on the Psilo^^ though chiefly with reference to Psilotum .
The importance of such evidence will vaj in different cases , according to the frequency of occurrence of any given abnormal^ other things being equal , it appears to me that those abnormalities which recur uiq frequently in a given species will be those which are most worthy of consideration f morphological argument .
As far as I am able to judge from the specimens in my possession , Tmesipteris is i unstable plant as regards form .
Twenty-four plants have been examined , and up* these were found twenty-six synangia which showed abnormal development- ?
average of more than one on each plant : they were , however , unequally distribute some plants bearing no abnormal synangia , , others bearing several .
It would th ; appear that Tmesipteris is unusually prone to variation in details of its synangia .
The abnormalities may be considered first from the point of view of external fora it has been a matter of frequent observation that " double leaves " occur in Psilotu without a synangium : Solms remarks , however p. 175 ) , that the rudime of a synangium may almost always be detected in such cases in the usual position , i example of this is shown in fig. 149 , for , where the abortive synangiu ( sy .
) is seen in the normal position : it is to be noted that it is placed on the adaxi face , and below the indentation between the leaf-lobes .
This is then a simple caset1 arrest of the whole synangium .
Similar specimens of Tmesipteris have been figurt and described by M. Bertrand ( ' Arch !
Bot. d. Nord/ vol. 1 , p. 475 ) .
Either the up : or the lower lobe of the synangium may be arrested , while the other lobe develop in the usual way ; these two cases are shown in figs. 150 , 151 ; such examples arrest of development of one loculus are to be carefully distinguished from cases to 1 described below , showing , in various degrees , the disappearance of the septum betwee the loculi .
A correlative vegetative growth , following arrest of the synangium , wi rarely found : in fig. 152 , however , a long process is seen bearing two small lobes ; thi arises in place of the synangium , and is clearly seated , as before , on the adaxial face of ti sporangiophore .
A different form of correlative growth is seen in fig. 153 : a " doubt leaf " of abnormal form is here shown , in which the lower part has virtually the for of the single foliage leaf : seated on the adaxial face , and near its base , is a sma brown process , which resembles an abortive synangium { sy .
) , while the upper pa : assumes the character of the " double-leaf , " but with the lobes partially cohered I have not seen in Tmesipteris any case of appearance of a third lobe , as described t Solms for Psilotum { loc. cit. , p. 175 , Plate 23 , fig. 8 ) .
In the abnormalities tht described , I see nothing inconsistent with the hypothesis above put forward : tha OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
\#166 ; ibed last ( fig. 153 ) appears decidedly to support the suggestion , based on study jj normal development , that the sporangiophore is a single leaf with two lobes , ng the synangium on its adaxial face .
is well known that both Psilotum and Tme show alternating sterile and e portions of the same shoot , similar to those seen in Lycopodium and .
Species .
It is at the upper or lower limits of these fertile zones that abnor-ies are most frequent , and even sporangiophores , which are otherwise normal , there great variations in vegetative development ; thus , fig. 154 represents a mgiophore from the middle of a fertile zone , with fully developed leaf-lobes , while 55 represents one of similar age from the upper limit of the fertile zone ; here leaf-lobes are small and stunted , though the synangium shows its normal icters .
The synangium itself is , however , liable to variations in form of a some-| parallel nature , involving ( i. ) greater complexity , or ( ii .
) simplification as \gt ; ared with the normal .
In two specimens from the middle of the fertile zone , a 3ular synangium was seen ( fig. 156 ) , the position of the three loculi being similar Lose in Psilotum , with which the correspondence of the whole sporangiophore is Less exceptional cases very close .
Fig. 157 represents a less regular case where s loculi are seated on one sporangiophore .
at the greatest interest in connection with the hypothesis above put forward is red in those abnormal synangia which show simplification of external form , and it presently be shown that simplification of internal structure follows that of form : I simpler synangia are most frequently , though not exclusively , found at the limits le fertile zone , or on specimens which have developed weakly .
The most frequent fiification is found in the absence of the groove separating the two lobes of the mgium , so that externally the synangium appears as a single boat-shaped body 158 ) .
In others the form may be shorter ( fig. 159 ) , but in such specimens , of which internal structure will be seen to present facts of the greatest importance for our ory , it is to be noted that the two projecting points , as well as the slight mediae ove , show that the whole body represents a complete synangium of a reduced type , s not to be ascribed to the arrest of one or other of the loculi , as in figs. 150 or 151 .
lally , in fig. 160 , we see an extreme case of reduction , the synangium being :e represented by a small spherical body , borne in the usual position on a \gt ; rangiophore , of which the leaf-lobes are of a very small size .
The above examples II show the chief lines of modification of form to which the synangia are liable , t the more direct interest in connection with our hypothesis is to be found in s modifications of internal structure and development which accompany them .
The normal structure of the synangium and its development have been described in tail above ( p. 541\#151 ; 543 ) ; examination of sections of such synangia as those we have st been discussing shows considerable deviations from the normal structure , especially regards the partial or even complete abortion of the septum ; these deviations have certain relation to the external form .
The structural details to be now described mdcccxciv.\#151 ; b. 4 A 546 PROFESSOR F. O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY have been obtained by the comparison of sections of fourteen specimens of diff ages .
Those of the type shown in fig. 158 deviate the least from the nojF form , and in section these sometimes show a complete septum , of apparently 3* !
-structure ; of the others , however , which were approaching maturity , one only a slight flange , projecting inwards into the single large cavity ; this doubth represents the margin of the septum , of which the central part has disappeared in other specimens there was no representative of the septum at From the fortt of these synangia , as well as from the occasional presence of vestiges of the sepfij we learn that they are not due to abortion of one-half of the synangium , but th J they represent the whole synangium , and they thus demonstrate that the septur , may be partially or completely abortive .
The same was found to be the case in th specimen shown in fig. 160 , but the best results have been obtained from those of tb type shown in fig. 159 , for several of these of different ages were obtained , sufficien indeed to supply the most essential features in the development of these non septate synangia .
It has already been shown in the development of normal synangia that it is impossible in early stages to differentiate the sporogenous tissue from th Septum , and that in later phases the limit was not clearly marked ( see p. 542 ) ; i the non-septate synangia the distinction never appears , or , at most , it is on slightly suggested .
Such a synangium in the young state is shown in fig. 161 , from which it will be seen that the form of the synangium is of the type of fig. 150 , th groove between the lobes being almost obsolete ; the vascular bundle stops short s the base of the synangium , instead of passing far into it , as described for the norms type ; the place where the septum should be is indicated by a slight flange , of firm tissue projecting downwards from the upper wall ( figs. 161 , 162 ) , but instead c continuing downwards as firm tissue , as in the normal synangia , it merges into mass of cells which fill the synangium , and consists of ( i. ) cells with less dens contents ( the tapetum , t , fig. 162 ) , and ( ii .
) more densely protoplasmic cells ( tl sporogenous cells , s , fig. 162 ) ; the former appear as a peripheral band ( , t ) , while th latter ( s , s ) occupy the centre .
The place where the septum should be demanc special notice : there the tissue is disposed , roughly speaking , in rows , as in th normal synangium ; the tissue opposite , the projecting flange of the incomplel septum appears to be sometimes of the tapetal character , and disappears as tb synangium develops ( fig. 163 ) .
But its cells may also be sporogenous ( fig. 162 ) ; in th younger state they may be so recognized by their denser protoplasmic contents , as i the figure above quoted , but the best demonstration of this fact is afforded by late stages , where the sporogenous cells are more clearly distinguished , by their definii cell-walls and nuclei , from the tapetal cells which are undergoing disorganization Fig. 164 shows a whole synangium of the same type as fig. 159 , cut in media section ; there is hardly any groove defining the two halves of the synangium , an no clear indication of the septum internally , while the cavity is occupied partly b disorganized cells of the peripheral and diffused tapetum , partly by the sporogenou OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
which hang together in connected masses .
In fig. 165 part of the contents of synangium , lying about the centre of it , are represented under a high power , while in ( x , x ) shows the position which the septum should normally occupy at present , it is plain that a connected thread of sporogenous cells , with definite cell-walls and 31 which make them readily distinguishable from the tapetal cells , extends quite js that line ; thus it is demonstrated that t tissue which would normally develop e septum , may , on occasions , develop as tapetum , or even as sporogenous tissue .
gs .
166-168 illustrate other examples of a similar nature , which were also of size below the normal .
Figs. 166 , 167 show two transverse sections of a small ngium , the first near its base , the second nearer to its upper surface .
From 3 it will be seen that a partial septum was present ( s. ) , which projects from the sr wall of the synangium for a certain distance downwards into the cavity , but 3 stops short .
Finally , fig. 168 represents a transverse section through the small rical synansfium shown in fig. 160 , and in it no trace of a septum was found , the Le cavity being occupied by immature spores ( sp. ) .
he modification of the vascular system of the synangium where the septum is nt is worthy of mention .
It has already been stated that in normal synangia a ular bundle enters the stalk , and that strands , consisting chiefly of tracheides , ich right and left , entering the septum , and running along its margin about four irs of cells from the outer surface .
In synangia , where the septum is incomplete bsent , I find no such septal bundles ; in these cases the vascular supply seems to \gt ; short at the base .
This behaviour of the septal bundles shows an obvious 'elation with the complexity of structure of the whole synangium .
'he details described in the above paragraphs occur in synangia , which will com-aly be designated \lt ; e abnormal .
" In so far as they differ from the common type , y are rightly so called ' , but it is to be remarked that there is some method in ir abnormality ; their occurrence , especially at the limits of the fertile zones , the piency of their appearance , and the correlation of smaller size and greater iplicity of external form of the synangium with the imperfect development , or m entire absence of the septum , all point to the conclusion that this is not a case haphazard monstrosity .
The whole series appears to me to illustrate within the b species what has been recognized elsewhere for distinct genera , such as icopodium , Isoetes , and Lepidodendron .
Where the sporangium is large , stei He nds of tissue are present , while in smaller sporangia homologous with these , stei He 'nds of tissue may be entirely absent .
But whereas in the other cases guoted the 5rile tissue was represented only by incomplete in Tmesipteris the same de is found to apply to the complete septum .
It may doubtless be objected that these smaller synangia with simpler structure Lustrate the possibility of fusion of sporangia normally distinct , rather than that tey have any bearing on the question of formation of septa ; in fact , that they are xtreme cases of a progressive reduction in a plant which is on the down grade of morphological change , such as has been suggested by Strasburger ( 'Bot .
Zeit 1873 ) , and not cases of individual retrogression in a plant which is , as I suppose , on the up-grade .
But when we look at the whole question from the Xjy of view of increase of number of spores , and compare , an Lycopodium , if the line of advance were such as I suggest , it is just at the limits the fertile zone that individual retrogression to simpler types would be expected a the physiological explanation of their occurrence would be the running short nutritive supply , from which would follow the development of synangia of small size and less complex structure .
The results from the study of the development in Tmesipteris may be summarize as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
In their earliest stages the foliage leaves are not readily distinguishable fro the sporangiophores either in form or in internal structure , and they occupy a simil position to them upon the axis .
2 .
In either case a prismatic or wedge-shaped cell occupies the apex , as seen i radial section , but all the tissues are not readily referable to the segmentation of single cell .
3 .
The first appearance of the synangium is as an upgrowth of superficial cells the adaxial face , immediately below the apex of the sporangiophore ; cells of tk abaxial side also grow strongly , while the apex itself does not grow ; so that t organic apex is soon sunk in the groove between these stronger growths .
4 .
The superficial cells of the adaxial surface , which are to form the synangiu , undergo periclinal and anticlinal divisions , so as to form about four layers ; from the are differentiated : ( a ) two sporogenous masses , ( a septum between them , ( c ) ti superficial wall .
5 " The limits of the sporogenous masses are difficult to define ; this is owing to ts fact that there is no definite tapetum , while many of the cells of the sporogenoi tissue also become disorganized without undergoing the tetrad division .
6 .
The tissue of the septum is similar , as regards origin , to the sporogenous mass ; it is therefore possible to regard it as a sterilized portion of a potential arehesporiu : 7 .
The lateral leaf-lobes begin to be formed almost simultaneously with tN synangium .
8 .
In synangia of abnormally simple form the septum may be partially or coi pletely abortive .
9 .
The tissue which normally develops as the septum , may on occasions develop tapetum , or even as sporogenous tissue .
PsiLOTUM .
Juraniyi ( 'Bot .
Zeit./ 1871 , p. 177 ) appears to have been the first to investiga1 the internal details of development of the sporangiophore in ; he describe OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
; n y0Ung , as having all the characters of an axial papilla , noting the presence imbial strand , which he stated to be absent from the foliage leaf .
In this , 3r ke was mistaken according to Solms ( p. 184 ) .
He admits the imilarity of the sterile and fertile parts while young , as regards their external I point which has above been specially noted for Tmesipteris .
He describes oangium as occupying the apex of the lateral appendage or sporangiophore , a three-sided pyramidal initial cell is present with definite segmentation .
iUBGER denies the last facts ( ' Bot. Zeit .
, M873 , p. 92 ) , and Goebel agrees a initial cell is not present .
He maintains , however , that the synangium is of al origin on the sporangiophore , and describes the sporogenous tissue of each I as referable to a single archesporial cell , but this single cell he has not ed ( 'Bot .
Zeit .
, ' 1881 , p. 692 ) .
The tapetum appears to originate from the ; enous tissue .
The above are the chief results obtained by previous investi-on the internal details of early development in Psilotum .
, detailed study of the synangium of Psilotum by means of sections is more It than that of Tmesipteris on account of its tri-locular character .
In radial is through the terminal bud , the young sporangiophores are found to present a il outline and structure similar to those of Tmesipteris ( compare figs. 134 , 136 ) .
34 shows one such : the cell ( x ) is believed to represent the organic apex of \gt ; orangiophore , though it is doubtful whether it be this initial which gives rise \#187 ; whole mass of the tissue .
The synangium thus appears as an outgrowth of pper surface of the sporangiophore , while the tissue on the abaxial side of it is Lie growing out into a bulky projection , as has been noted by Goebel ( loc. cit. , 3 ) , and as already seen in Tmesipteris.- But I have not been able to trace the opment of the essential parts of the loculi of the synangium from the superficial of the adaxial side of the sporangiophore in this case with the same certainty as nesipteris : I think this is chiefly owing to the stalk being here narrower , ^ and to 'act that only one loculus of the synangium can be cut in a median direction Lie one section ; supposing this to be the median plane of the whole sporangio e , then it will be the abaxial loculus which will be thus traversed .
And here sty be noted that Goebel 's fig. 11 ( loc. cit. ) does not appear to traverse either ie two loculi exactly in a radial plane ; if this were so , the two loculi could not jar so nearly equal in size , and accordingly as both are traversed^ more or less piely the results from the section must be accepted with reservation .
A truly al section of a young synangium is shown in fig. 135 , the arrow indicating the ction of the main axis ; the cell ( x ) in figs. 135 , 137 , is a conical cell , which is Lmonly , though perhaps not constantly found occupying the centre of the apical Pace of the synangium ( compare figs. 136 , 139 , 141 ) .
Divergent statements of er writers have been above noted as relating to the presence or absence of an dal cell in the synangium of Psilotum .
Jubaniyi ( 'Bot .
Zeit .
, ' 1871 , p. 179}/ scribes the synangium as growing with an initial cell of the form of a three-sided pyramid .
Strasburger ( ' Bot. Zeit./ 1873 , No. 6 ) , and Goebel ( ' Bot , Zeit ' p. 692 , and fig. 9 , sp.)deny that there is one .
I can confidently state that lilt three-sided pyramidal cell is commonly present in my preparations ( x fiJZ 137 ) , though I am not disposed to assert that this is the primary parent cell of J whole synangium .
The cell shaded in fig. 135 is believed to be the archesporia ] ^ for one of the loculi , but after comparison of a large number of sections I am !
uncertain whether the whole of the sporogenous tissue in each loculus is J referable to a single parent cell , for just the same difficulty arises here Tmesipteris , in recognizing the exact limits of the sporogenous masses .
here 1 this is probably due to the facts ( 1 ) that there is no clearly defined tapetum/ j ( 2 ) that only a part of the sporogenous tissue actually forms spores .
The Psilotac are in this respect the most difficult family of the Vascular Cryptogams .
The subsequent stages of development are illustrated by figs. 136-138 , and it ^ be seen from these how the sporogenous masses assume large dimensions and are first composed of uniform cell , The wall of the synan JLm meanwhile bec^ multiseriate , and the cells of the outermost layer assume a deep and prismatic for while the inner layers are narrow .
The same is the character of the more superfic ' cells of the sporogenous mass ( fig. 138 ) , so that it is almost impossible to recogni the limit between the tissue of the wall and of the sporogenous mass ; the superfici portions of the latter become disorganized without the formation of spores , but the is no clearly defined tapetum .
Such is also the fate of a considerable proportion ' the more central cells .
As the synangium develops , irregular groups of cells of fi sporogenous masses assume dense granular contents , and subdivide , while the otha remain paler , with more watery contents , and do not divide ; the former undergo fi t final tetrad division , and form spores , while the latter become disorganized .
T actual state of partial disorganization is shown in figs. 143 , 144 ; thus , a parti , sterilization of cells of a sporogenous tissue , essentially similar to that demonstrated !
Equisetum , is seen also in Psilotum , and , as above stated , it exists also in This has already been noted by Strasburger .
The fan-like tracery of the cells , as seen in radial section of the synangium , sho ' that the study of transverse sections will present difficulties ; these are least in ts youngest stages , such as that shown in fig. 139 , which corresponds in age nearly !
that of fig. 135 .
The cells shaded are believed to be the archesporia , but I should : slow to make precise statements on this point , and especially so in face of the dif culty , above noted , of assigning definite limits to the sporogenous tissue in old synangia .
Further stages of development are shown in figs. 140-142 ; and wh allowance is made for the transverse sections cutting the cell-rows rather oblique ( as must be the case in parts with a fan-like tracery ) , it will be seen that the trau verse sections fit with all reasonable closeness of comparison with the results fro the longitudinal .
The main facts derived from the study of Psilotum thus coincide with those arrive OP SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
- 55* Vmedpteris , as regards the origin of the sporangiophore , and the appearance of Sangium on its upper surface , below the extreme apex .
The following points 0 noted as more specially applicable to Psilotum , in addition to those already irized for Tmesipteris . .
, 'he organic apex of the sporangiophore coincides with the groove between the dum and the pair of abaxial growths ( leaf-lobes ) , as seen in the mature state .
L three-sided pyramidal cell is usually present at the apex of the synangium .
5ach sporogenous mass appears to be referable in origin to a single parent cell , is has not been actually proved , it being difficult to assign sharp limits to the enous masses .
" he inner cells of the wall , as well as the superficial cells of the sporogenous 5 , become disorganized , but there is no definitely distinguished tapetum .
Certain cells of the sporogenous tissue scattered through the mass , are destroyed it forming spores , as is also the case in Eq and in Theoretical Treatment of Results from Psilotace^e . .
observations above detailed show that the study of development by means of ns supports the observations of Solms , rather than those of Juraniyi , Goebei .
, Jertrand .
We conclude from examination of sections , very clearly in the case nesipteris , though with less clear demonstration in the more complex case of turn , that the synangium is a product of the adaxial surface of the sporangio-I , and that it arises immediately below the organic apex of that part .
These strengthen the conclusion already drawn by Solms from external observation , the whole sporangiophore is a member of foliar nature , and that it is not com1 of a shortened axis and leaves , as .Juraniyi suggested .
I would add that , if the synangium had proved to be terminal , there would be no need to have irse to so cumbrous , and I think improbable , an explanation of the fact , for to me ems just as probable that a synangium may occupy the apex of a lea , as t at augium may be found at the apex of an axis ; in this case the terminal or at era tion of the synangium would not affect the argument .
This seems to have even view of Prantl also .
he lateral position of the synangium being demonstrated , and t e cone usion ved at that the whole sporangiophore is a foliar structure , it remains to raw parisons with other plants , and in the first place with those to which the a mt } he Psilotacese has always been recognized , viz. , the Lycopodiacese .
The comparison l first relate to Tmesipteris , which is probably nearer akin to Lycopodium than is lotum .
If figs. 120 , 121 , 124 of Tmesipteris be compared with fig. 58 of clavatum , better with figs. 71-74 of L. alpinum , the similarity will he obvious ; in both cases outgrowth has appeared on the upper surface of a leaf , involving a number of cells , lich are undergoing anticlinal and periclinal divisions ; but whereas the growth in 552 PROFESSOR P. O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY Lycopodium is close to the base of the sporophyll , that in Tmesipteris is close to the apex ; this is the most salient point of difference at this stage tf"\#174 ; however , be noted that an intermediate condition is seen in ( compare fi 106 , 107 ) , where the sporangium is seated slightly above the basal limit of thelj ' phyll , also in Lepidostrobus , where also there is an interval between the Iowah ) of the sporangium and the insertion of the sporophyll on the axis .
also that 12 some variety in the relation of the sporangium to the sporophyll in SehmrM Lycopodium .
' ^ The tangential section of the sporangium in certain species of Lycopodium sW very considerable curved series of archesporial cells ( figs. 42 , 64 , 76 ) ; in TmcSl the cells so exposed appear to be only two ( figs. 127 , 129 , 130 ) ; this difference however , not very material , for we find somewhat similar variation within the gel Lycopodium and Selagmella .
Thus , while the number of archesporial cells seer !
tangential section in L. clavatum is large , in L. phlegmaria ( fig. 50 ) it is at ng four , or perhaps even two ; accordingly , this difference is one of only second , importance .
Some of the various ways in which the dimensions of Lycopodia , sporangia may vary have been discussed above ( p. 536 , \amp ; c , ) ; it has been shown that % is variety within the genus Lycopodium in the number of archesporial cells as seei\#174 ; the radial section , L. Selago showing the simplest type , with only one archesp# cell thus seen ( fig. 36 ) , while L. clavatum will serve as a more complex type Jj three ( fig. 58 ) .
It has been pointed out ( p. 532 ) that in Lsoetes the number of are-sporial cells exposed in the radial section is larger ( figs. 105 , 106 ) , while the exists of this more extensive sheet of archesporial tissue is accompanied by the formation !
trabeculae , which are , as regards their origin , sterilized portions of a potential .sp* !
genous tissue .
It has also been above suggested that the large oblong sporangia of Lepidostrobus owes its origin to a similar extensive development of the spco-genous tissue , which probably stretched in a radial direction for a consider^ distance along the upper surface of the sporophyll ( fig. 94 ) ; though not septate , e cavity ot the sporangium is traversed by trabeculae ( figs. 96-103 ) , or even irregtr continuous plates ( figs. 132 , 133 ) of sterile tissue ; at present , unfortunately , \#174 ; developmental data are available for proving whether or not these sterile tissues w\#187 ; derived from a potential archesporium ' , but their great similarity to the stere trabeculae of Lsoetes makes it probable that they were .
Like Lycopodium and Isoetes , Tmesipteris shows also an extensive potential arc -sporium , but here it occupies a narrow zone on the upper surface of the sporang-phore , and extends for a considerable distance in a radial direction , stretching to s extreme apex .
It is not , however , fertile throughout in normal synangia , for wife the portions at either end develop so as to supply the contents of the two lay loculi , the middle portion is sterile and develops normally as the septum .
Thus , n developmental grounds , it appears that the synangium of Tmesipteris corresponds !
position to the sporangium of Isoetes or Lepidostrobus , being produced on the upf OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
ce of the sporophyll or sporangiophore , but at some little distance from the base , liffering in this respect only in a minor degree from other Lycopods ; this points \#187 ; ds the homology of the sporangium of the Lycopods and the synangium of interis , that is , the homology of a single sporangium with a synangium bearing [ oculi_a non-septate with a septate body .
Clearly , before such a conclusion be admitted , it will be necessary to examine the evidence very closely , ere are three lines of evidence\#151 ; ( i ) from comparative anatomy of the plants in ion ; ( ii ) from comparative study of normal development and mature structure sir spore-bearing organs ; ( iii ) from study of abnormalities .
I have already shown elsewhere ( 'Annals of Botany , ' vol. 7 , p. 329 ) that the ilar tissues of Lepidostrobus Brovmii show an extraordinary similarity to the sponding tissues of the Psilotacece ; it may be stated that this correspondence is r than with any other living plants , closer even than with Lycopodium .
The ty of Lepidodendron has always been recognized with the Lycopods ; we now see as regards the vascular system , it is more especially with that outlying group of podinese , viz. , the Psilotaceae .
I The evidence under our second head in support of the homology has been dealt at length in the preceding pages , and need only be again summarized here as NS :\#151 ; ( a ) the position of the synangium of and its origin from the r surface of the sporangiophore ( sporophyll ) , is similar to that of Lepidostvobus oi es ; ( b ) in the general form of the synangium and in the structure of the wall , the ngium of Tmesipteris resembles the sporangium of Lepidostrobus ( compare .
93 and 146 ) ; ( c ) the function of the two parts is the same ; { d ) in Isoetes , and in Lepidostrobus , sterile trabeculae , or plates of tissue , run up into the sporo)us cavity corresponding in this respect , though not in detail of outline , to the um of Tmesipteris ; ( e ) the origin of the tissue of the septum in relation to the 'ogenous tissue is similar in Tmesipteris to the origin of the trabeculae in Lsoetes .
origin in Lejndostrobus has not been observed , but there is reason to believe that ce was similarity in this respect between these two plants , ii ) The most interesting evidence is that derived from abnormal synangia of s , which show that ( a ) where the form is simpler , and resembles more closely that the sporangium of Lepidostrobus , the septum may be partially or completely rtive , and the synangium be thus replaced by a simple sporangium ; ( 6 ) it has been nonstrated that in such cases the tissue ivhich would normally form the septum may )elop as tapetum , or even as sporogenous tissue .
It is thus seen that there is no ential difference between the tissue which may be formative of septum , and that tich .
may be sporogenous , since the one can pass on occasions into the other .
It will noted that this observation is the converse of what Professor Goebel has demon-'ated in Isoetes ; he there showed that part of a potential archesporium may be crilized , and develop as trabeculce .
I have now shown the converse , viz. , that ssuei which , though similar in origin to the sporogenous tissue , usually forms a 554 PROFESSOR F. O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY septum , may on occasions form spores .
The conclusion is that , in dealing wit| cases , the presence or absence of trabeculae or a septum is a phenomenon of se2jJ moment from the point of view of homology , and , in fact , is no essential J|j ' to recognizing homologies , between parts of which one may be partially or septate , the other non-sepiate.# From the facts and the reasoning thus briefly stated , I conclude that the synang of Tmesipteris is homologous with the sporangium of other the correspondence being with Lepidostrobus and Isoetes .
It may be looked upon amendment on the type of sporangium in these plants ; their trabeculae , tho !
irregular , doubtless yielded physiological , and possibly also mechanical , support .
$ comparatively slight rearrangement and consolidation of the trabecular tissue# Isoetes or of Lepidostrobus might result in the complete partition of the sporangni into two loculi , as it is seen normally in T , * or the converse view is poss % viz. , that the imperfectly septate sporangia of the type shown in or Isoetes may have resulted from reduction of completely septate types .
This quesi^n will be discussed later .
At present it may be stated that the former view seems ie more probable .
The case of Psilotum appears at first sight more difficult ; there can , ho we verne no doubt that the synangium of Psilotum is homologous with that of Tmesipter\#151 ; the similarity of position and structure , and the occurrence of trilocular synangiin Tmesipteris ( fig. 156 ) , are sufficient evidence of this .
Other observers have ned variations from the normal trilocular synangium in Psilotum .
A reduction of kali to two is not uncommon , though it appears to be frequently the result of mere anst of one of the loculi .
In other cases the number of loculi may be increased to fouor five ( Solms , loc.cit .
, p. 174 ) .
From such observations it follows that the numbeof loculi need not affect our view of homology ; whether the number of loculi be ne ( fig. 160 ) , two ( fig. 154 ) , three ( fig. 156 ) , or four , or five , the synangium of he Psilotacese is still homologous throughout , while , as above concluded , it is so homologous with the sporangium of other Lycopodinese .
ihe presence of the two leaf-lobes , in the fertile leaves of these two genera is doubtless one of their most peculiar features , as well as most difficult to harmosze with the condition of the leaf in allied plants .
The Lycopodinese are so strordy characterized by the simple form of their leaves , that these parts of the Psilotaea ?
call for special attention .
It has been repeatedly remarked that the leases of Psilotum and Tmesipteris may appear double , though no synangium may be attackf but these cases probably arise by abortion of a potential synangium , and are nofto be looked upon as double leaves normally produced ; in fact the vegetative leafin these plants is normally simple , while the fertile sporangiophore bears lateral lob \gt ; ' * A somewhat similar case is to be found in the genus Najas , in which the single anther maN : quadrilocular in N. major , but only unilocular in N. minor .
Eichler , 'Bliithendiagramme , ' p. 82 .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
facts must be accepted as they stand , though the Lycopodinous leaf is else-simple , and though it is decidedly exceptional to find sporophylls more .ate in form than foliage leaves of the same plant .
It must not be forgotten bhe origin of the sporangiophore is like that of the foliage leaf , and that in \pteris the distinction can only be drawn when the development has proceeded onsiderable extent , while the lateral lobes make their appearance later than the gium in both genera , and the synangium appears below the apex of the jgiophore .
These are the facts on which the foliar view is based , notwith-ing the peculiarity of the lobed leaf when mature .
t , though peculiar , the lobes of the fertile leaves may be seen to serve a useful here , as elsewhere , the protection of the young synangia is a matter of .tance ; it is obvious that two lateral leaf-lobes would offer more protection a single terminal growth of similar form and size ; the result is shown silotum , in figs. 139 , 140 , and for Tmesipteris , in fig. 145 , where the synangium sely invested by the protecting lobes .
Moreover , it is to be remarked that in cases as these , where the synangia appear as very considerable and bulky s on the adaxial face of the leaf , the foliage leaf itself being also flattened in a m plane , the presence of an extended leaf-apex would be highly inconvenient in acking of the parts in the bud , for the result would be a lax bud , in which the idual parts would be greatly exposed .
By the arrest of the apex of the leaf , substitution of the lateral lobes , as implied in the hypothesis above put forward , re compact bud is produced , and the synangia are better protected .
The arrest e apex of the leaf may , perhaps , be compared with a similar arrest in the flower srtain Angiosperms , where mechanical inconvenience has led to abortion of ens or carpels .
i the ground of the above facts and considerations , I conclude that the t of the Psilotacese ( apart from branching in the ordinary sense of the word , ih is much more common in Psilotum than in ) is a simple shoot , isting of an axis , bearing sporangiophores and foliage leaves .
These alternate l one another in irregular zones , and in Tmesipteris the transition from foliage es to sporangiophores may be frequently repeated , in Psilotum the repetition is frequent .
The condition is thus similar to that in Lycopodium Selago with successive sterile and fertile zones .
The abortive synangia correspond to the rtive sporangia in this and other species of , and accordingly the eral considerations as regards origin from a simple strobilus , which were laid m , on p. 535 , for the genus Lycopodium , will apply with equal force to Psilotum Tmesipteris .
CONCLUDING REMARKS .
tn the above pages I have described the results of an examination of the sporo-oducing members of the strobiloid Vascular Cryptogams , viz. , Equisetinese , arid Lycopodinese , including Lepidodendro ) % , and the Psilotacese .
It may h remarked that the prime object which I have kept before me has not been direct^11 trace " homologies " between the parts of various Vascular Cryptogams .
It is an open question whether true phylogenetic homologies are really to be fT* between parts of plants which are so distant from one another systematically*^ instance , Equisetum and Lycopodium ; but when plants appear to belong to the* natural series , as , for instance , Lycopodium , Selaginella , Lepidodendron , Iml Tmesipteris , and Psilotum , then I think that homologies may fairly be traced befcwe their parts .
I his has not , however , been the first object : the chief end in view h been to disclose some main features of the manner in which the advance from son Algal-Bryophytic ancestry to the Vascular Cryptogams may have been brought aboi On earlier pages ( p. 485 ) this question has been first approached by comparative stuc of the Bryophyta , especially the Hepaticse .
The conclusions arrived at by Leitgb the greatest specialist on the minute study of the Hepaticse , as to the probable mol of progression from the simpler to the more complex types of these plants , suggest the idea that traces of somewhat similar lines of advance might be found among livii Vascular Cryptogams ; and that these might throw some light upon the question transition from the Bryophytes to the more complex vascular plants .
Four questio relating to this subject were put forward ( p. 494 ) , and we shall now see how | answers may be found to them from the observations and comparisons above describe ( 1 .
) Are sterile cells distributed among the sporogenous cells in any Vascul Cryptogams ?
In answer to this we find sterile cells in large numbers distributed through t : sporogenous masses in Equisetum , Tmesipteris , and Psilotum .
The criticism may : advanced that this is merely a physiological phenomenon depending on nutritioi but in this I see no real objection , for such physiological phenomena have large : affected the course of evolution , and , in fact , morphology should be looked upon 1 little more than the study of stereotyped physiology .
In view of the facts asce tained from the Hepaticse , we cannot pass over the existence of these sterile cells as matter of no morphological importance .
It is true they do not form firm walls , : develop into cells such as the elaters : they are to be compared rather with tl sterile cells in the sporogonium of Oxymitra ( Leitgeb , loc. cit. , Heft 4 , p. 43 ) .
B whatever comparisons be drawn , the fact remains that sterile cells in large numb are present in the sporangia of the plants above named.* ( 2 .
) Do any Vascular Cryptogams show distinct parts which may be correlated position , structure , development , and function with the sporogonial head of Bryophyfi The strobilus of Equisetum is in function the counterpart of the sporogoni head : its normally terminal position is also similar , though the shoot on whi\lt ; it is borne is more complex in structure and in branching .
In early stages 1 * Similar sterile cells are also found in Ophioglossum .
OP SPOKE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
pi\amp ; ent it is not unlike certain sporogonial heads , but as development proceeds \gt ; mes much more complex , showing first outgrowing sporangiophores , and subse-y separate sporangia .
While still young , it is possible to recognize superficial which will give rise to the essential parts of the sporangia , at a time when the giophores are only slightly projecting beyond the general surface of the strode most sporogonial heads it is usually sharply limited below , and rarely the power of branching .
Similarly , with the strobilus holds a m comparable to the sporogonial head , though more complex in structure .
Its growth , while young , is not unlike that of some sporogonia .
In most cases it , ply limited below , and is rarely branched .
But in Lycopodium and Selccginella robilus is not so limited , and , as above explained , there is good reason to believe he chief vegetative region of these plants is the result of sterilization of the parts of an extended and branched strobilus .
Such development would attain ghest complexity in the tree-like trunks and branches of of , the cone ( Lepidostrobus ) would still represent the fertile portion of the sporo-L head .
In the Psilotacece the strobili are more lax : as above pointed out , rer , on the grounds of development and histology , as well as general comparison tn , we conclude that the case is similar to that of the Selago type of Lycopodium .
y , Isoetes may be regarded as a simple strobilus of which certain sterile leaves rene between the fertile ones .
In fact , all the strobiloid types hitherto examined , " all in , without undue straining of the idea , with the working hypothesis , that trobilus is the counterpart of a sporogonial head : in function and position the spondence is usually plain enough : the structure , external form , and details of lopment are , however , decidedly more complex in the vascular plants , and the spondence is apparently less close in proportion as the appendicular organs are of ively larger size .
, ) Are the sporangia borne in such relation to one another as to suggest a non origin by subdivision of simpler parts ?
l Phylloglossum , Lycopodium , Selaginellci , , and Isoetes the angia are isolated , a single sporangium being borne on each sporophyll , in these ira there is in the arrangement of the sporangia no obvious suggestion of their ng been the result of subdivision of simpler parts .
But in Lquisetum and in the otacese the case is different .
Each sporangiophore of Equisetum bears a number sporangia ; in the young state these appear sunk in the margin of the slightly buberant sporangiophore ; but when mature they project as apparently more Anct parts .
The younger state may be taken as an indication of the probable ie of origin by descent , in which case the view would be arrived at that the rangia of each sporangiophore were originally more closely associated together , 1 it will not appear improbable that they may have had a common origin , the sue now intervening between them having been completely sterilized .
But before eh a suggestion can be seriously considered exact evidence should be forthcoming that sterilization can take place ; this will be found in the answer to question 1 I the Psilotacese the sporangia are grouped in synangia , the number of loculi wL ' from one to five ; their appearance and arrangement certainly would suggest jEy ] of a common origin , by subdivision of simpler parts .
The similarity of the synJSj of Psilotum to the sporangiophore of Equisetum would indicate that the mode of'1 j of these parts was probably somewhat similar .
( 4 .
) Is there direct evidence in any Vascular Cryptogam of conversion of polLi I sporogenous tissue into masses of sterile tissue , or conversely of conversion of mJ septa into spore-producing cells ?
Professor Goebel has shown that the trabecuhe of are derived from potential archesponum ; this I can endorse , and it would , therefore , appear that trabeculae are parts of a potential sporogenous tissue converted into sterile tissu the same appears to be not improbable for * Goebel remarks ( ' Ann ; of Botany , ' 1892 , p. 358 ) that he " would only attach a biological , that is k adaptive , significance to the fact .
" My point is that the requirements so well m by Isoetes m the formation of its sterile trabeculae , probably made themselves feltr other plants with large spore-bearing members , and the adaptations to meet the , , if successful , would become stereotyped as permanent morphological facts , Tmesipteris also , the normal septum is similar in origin to the sporogenous mass , and is undistmguishable from them while young ; thus , from the developmental pot of view it may also be looked upon as a result of sterilization .
But , conversely^ has been shown that in certain abnormal synangia of Tmesipteris the septa ilj be completely absent , while in others it has been demonstrated that those tisss which normally form the septum may become sporogenous ; there is accordingly j absolute and essential difference between tissue of the septum and the sporogems tissue in the septate synangium of Tmesipteris .
Thus , our observations afford answers to the four questions above put forward ; k t it is true that the evidence is neither over-abundant nor conclusive .
Those who bt appreciate the greatness of the gulf between the Bryophyta and the Vascuir Cryptogams would least expect it to be abundant .
Its value is to be estimated i connection with that derived from the Bryophyta ; the quotations above given fra Leitgeb ( p. 487 , \amp ; c. ) show that he deemed that the progress of sterilization in certa series of Liverworts was demonstrated , while comparison leads to the probability !
further formation of sterile tissues in such plants as the Anthocerotese , in when elater-like cells , similar to those which appear to have undergone consolidation o form the columella , are dispersed through the sporogenous tissue .
Somewhat simb evidence , though not so cogent , leads to the conclusion that sterilization , resulting^ The same is also the case in Frullania , where " elaters " of trabecular character , and attached5 both ends , are formed from sister cells of those which , after division , give rise to the spores .
^ Hofmbistee , ' Higher Cryptogamia ' ( Plate 12 , fig. 9 ) , and Leclerc du Sablon , ' Ann. Sci. Not .
, ' B\#171 ; 7 serie , vol. 2 , 1885 , p. 130 , Plate 7 .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
tissue-masses or isolated sterile cells , has taken place also among the Vascular ms Such evidence is of the greatest importance in connection with our lesis of the origin of the strobilus from a sporogonial head .
While I know of i which present a real obstacle to the acceptance of the hypothesis , a large ir of facts relating to external form , internal structure , and development , which ?
even discussed in previous pages , fall in with the theory .
In the absence of extensive and more direct evidence , therefore , the whole question before us like so many problems relating to descent ) resolve itself in great measure into ice of probabilities .
In view of the facts as a whole , it seems to me at present ife that the strobilus of the Equisetinece and is the counterpart of a onial head , such as that seen in the Bryophyta ; that it attained its present ion by partial sterilization of the originally continuous archesporium , and out-ti of the isolated parts , together with external protective tissues , as sporangia , there were also formed , probably simultaneously , appendicular organs ( sporangio- , and sporophylls ) , which bear them .
That in certain cases ( Psilotacese and ) lie Equisetinese ) the original sporangia underwent a further subdivision , by Lion of sterile septa , the result being synangia of various types .
Isoetes , and -jjy Lepidodendron , are to be taxen as examples of such sterilization resulting in julse in place of complete septa .
The sterilization thus involved would be r in kind to that which was so ably traced by Leitgeb in the Liverworts .
A of special interest in connection with this is the presence of sterile cells in the T sporangia of Equisetum and the Psilotacem , scattered through the sporogenous \gt ; s ; similar cells have been observed by Bostowzew ( ' Becherches sir l'Ophio-im vulgatum , L. , ' Kjobenhavn , 1891 , p. 28 , Plate 2 , fig. 5 ) in the Adder's-le , and I have been able to confirm the fact .
It thus appears that in , turn , Tmesipteris , and Ophioglossum , all types in which the sporangia are closely iated together so as to form synangia , a considerable proportion of the potential )genous tissue is sterile , the cells yielding up their substance to nourish their vs , which develop as mature spores .
This cannot be looked upon as a mere iidence ; it demands careful consideration , both from the physiological and )hological aspects .
com the physiological point of view the sterile cells act the part of a diffused turn ; they become disorganized , and the substances which compose them are in up into the developing spores .
Developmentally they are sister cells with ie which produce spores , \#151 ; they are , in fact , potentially sporogenous cells , and the 3tion may be asked , why they do not develop as such .
It would appear that it of nutrition determines the matter , and I think the state of the case is probably ollows : these plants have increased the bulk of their potential sporogenous tissue oud the point at which it can be wholly matured , and the result is an arrange-nt by which the number of spores actually produced can be advanced to the gest figure which the plant will be able to ripen .
In Psilotum it has been u distinctly seen that certain cells of the sporogenons mass first assume dens^\#151 ; plasmic contents , and that the number of these increases up to a certain HiqhB the sporogenous cells separate from one another ; it is probably the condition 0f ' plant at the time as regards nutritive supply which will determine this Jp larger proportion becoming sporogenous in a well-nourished plant , and a M ] number in an impoverished plant .
In this connection , it may be noted that } my specimens of Psilotum came from the Glasgow garden , those of Tmesipteris grown in their native country , and both showed the potential sporogenous tissueTl partially fertile .
Examining the peculiarity , which these plants share , from the comparative morphological side , it may be noted that in allied forms , such as PhylhgbsZ Lycopodium , Selaginella , Isoetes , and in most Filicinese other than Ophioglossnn the large majority , or even all of the cells of the sporogenous mass form spores ."i few odd cells may suffer arrest and disorganization , as has been seen in the uiiCTO sporangia o t Selaginella and Isoetes , but ( with the exception of the megasporangia c the latter genera ) the arrest and destruction of a considerable proportion of potential !
sporogenous cells is not a distinct feature ; this makes the matter still more deserving , of consideration .
It has been noted that in the Anthocerotece Leitgeb saw evidence of sterilizatioi of tissues , resulting in the formation of the central columella ; in addition to tW there are also present in Anthoceros sterile elaters which originate with the spore genous cells from the archesporium ; thus Anthoceros shows both the result of a mor general sterilization as tissue masses , and individual sterilization of cells scattere through the potential sporogenous tissue .
Now in Psilotum , am Tmesipteris we see plants with sporangia grouped in such a way as to suggest , o : our general hypothesis , an origin by subdivision of simpler sporangia , the septa beinj a result of partial sterilization ; but in addition to this ( as also in Anthoceros ) steril cells are scattered through the potential sporogenous masses ; it is true these celt in the vascular plants quoted , do not form cell-walls as do the elaters of Anthocem but morphologically speaking , in both cases we have to deal with sterilized cells of\#171 ; potential sporogenous mass , and in both cases the organisms concerned are such a give good reason to recognize in the presence of masses of vegetative tissue ( columell and septa ) , the results of previous sterilization .
In the presence of these cell scattered through the sporogenous tissue , I should be disposed to recognize tha Equisetum , Psilotum , and Tmesipteris show a condition which , with little furthe modification , might lead to further subdivision of their sporangia ; this would b\lt ; readily effected by the consolidation of such scattered cells into coherent masses , in '\lt ; \#166 ; manner illustrated by Metzgeria , Aneura , and the Anthocerotese .
It has been noted that Ophioglossum shows a similar condition : this interesting fact will be considered in due course when the Filicinese are under discussion .
If the reasoning brought forward in the above pages be accepted , the strobiloid OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
$61 Lr Cryptogams would take a place in the ascending series of vascular plants , las clearly the opinion of Naegeli .
But certain other writers have looked diem as examples of reduction : thus Strasburger ( ' Bot. Zeit./ 1873 , No. 6 , ontemplated it as probable that the sporangia of Lycopodium and Seldginella , he result of contraction of the whole fertile frond of the Opliioglossacese , while fnangium of Psilotum represented for him the result of reduction of a whole lus of Lycopodium .
Those also who look upon the Leptosporangiate Ferns as rarest of living vascular plants to the Bryophyta are often disposed to regard robiloid Pteridophyta as comparatively reduced types : and doubtless some will l the sterile cells scattered through the sporogenous masses of , urn , and Tmesipteris evidence of such reduction .
It is true the Pteridophyta sent living are smaller than many of the individuals of former ages .
but their igia do not show evidence of reduction of type , or of coalescence , as compared -heir fossil relatives .
If the living strobiloid types have been reduced as regards spore-bearing parts , their relatives , the Calamariese and Lepidodendra , must also been reduced ; that is , some of the earliest fossil plants of which we have any ite knowledge would have to be looked upon as reduced types , and in the nding scale of evolution .
This is doubtless possible , but seems to me by no means ble ; in fact , it is very much like a veductio ad absuvdum .
Accordingly I con-on this , as also on grounds of general comparison , that the more probable view it the strobiloid types , both ancient and modern , are in the ascending scale of tion , as they must certainly be if our working hypothesis is sound , have now examined types of all the genera of living Vascular Ciyptogams , sive of the Filicinese .
On the latter , rather extensive observations have also made , but I propose to hold back such results as are already in hand till my itigations of the Filicinese have been completed .
In the meanwhile it may be rked that the main lines of investigation and of argument pursued in the above s will be found applicable also to the Filicinese .
lo not propose to discuss the results from a more general or from a phylogenetic b of view till the close of the remaining part of this Memoir , which will have as abject the morphology of the spore-bearing members of the Filicinese .
l conclusion it may be remarked that there appears to be good reason , both from nds of comparison and from detailed observation , to believe that one at least of three possible modes of increase in number of spore-producing masses ( separate esporia ) suggested in the introductory paragraphs ( p. 484 ) , has played a part m evolution of Vascular Cryptogams , viz. , subdivision and partitioning of an inally simple sporogenous mass , by its partial sterilization and formation of septa , s not contended that the point has been actually demonstrated , but the facts ived from the study of Tmesiptevis , when compared with those relating to other Jopods , and Isoetes , make this conclusion appear a probable one .
It may remain-open question how important a part this factor may actually have taken in the HDCCCXCIV.\#151 ; b. 4 c evolution of vascular plants : my own opinion is that subdivision has largely , tttg , not exclusively , been the means of increase in number of separate archesporia .
JJ at least I think that both the general considerations and the detailed facts abo discussed go far to show that progressive sterilization and partitioning of gpoi bearing members are factors which will have to be taken into account in solving t ] problems of origin and progress of vascular plants .
DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES .
PLATE 42 .
Equisetum arvense , L. Fig. 1 .
Padial longitudinal section of part of a young strobilus , showing t sporangiophores in a very young state , ( x 300 .
) Fig. 2 .
Part of an older sporangiophore in radial section , with young sporangiu the group of cells shaded corresponds to the cell shaded in fig. ( X 300 .
) Fig. 3 .
Ditto , showing the first periclinal division in the outer cell .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 4 .
Ditto ; considerably older , and showing cells ( X ) which are added to i archesporium as the result of subdivision of the outer of the two origi cells , ( x 300 .
) Fig. 5 .
Ditto ; older .
Cells marked ( X ) correspond to those in the previous figi ( X 300 .
) Fig. 6 .
Ditto ; a good deal older .
All the essential parts of the sporangium are h initiated .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 7 .
Oblique section through a sporangiophore of age corresponding to fig. 4 , as to pass through the axis of the young sporangium in a plane at ri| angles to that of fig. 4 .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 8 .
A section similar to fig. 7 .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 9 .
Transverse section through a sporangium of age corresponding to that sho in fig. 6 .
( X 300 .
) The arrow indicates the side next to the stalk the sporangiophore .
Equisetum , L. Fig. 10 .
Part of a tangential section of a strobilus , which traverses the sporari\#163 ; phores transversely .
sp. \#151 ; stalks of sporangiophores .
= th sporangia cut transversely , and showing extreme differences of size a complexity in sporangia side by side .
( X 300 .
) OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
, i 12 , 13 .
Three sporangia from the same strobilus , cut in median longitudinal section , and showing different types of* segmentation , together with difference of bulk .
( X 300 .
) .
Median section of a rather older sporangium , from near the apex of a ' strobilus .
v.b. shows where the vascular bundle is beginning to be developed .
( X 300 .
) PLATE 43 .
d is .
Median longitudinal section of a sporangium at the base of the strobilus , together with the annulus ( a. ) .
( X 300 .
) I 16 .
Tangential section of a sporangium of same age as figs. 11-13 .
( X 300 .
) Compare fig. 11 .
is .
17 , 18 .
Ditto ; more complex specimens .
( X 300 .
) i 19 .
Tangential section of a sporangium in a more advanced state .
( X 300 .
) 1 20 .
Apex of an older sporangium in radial section .
The tapetum ( ) is now clearly defined .
( X 300 .
) i 21 .
Part of an older sporangium , showing the tapetum ( t. ) still a clearly-defined band , though the individuality of the cells is lost ; within this the sporo-genous tissue , of which certain cells ( a ) are abortive .
( X 300 .
) Phylloglossum Drummond , Kunze .
fcor .
22 .
A plant of Phylloglossum , showing tuber-leaves and strobilus ; one sporophyll of the latter is at a distance below the rest , intercalary growth having taken place in the axis above it .
( X 3 .
) -g .
23 .
A plant of Phylloglossum grown in the Glasgow Botanic Garden ; the strobilus is branched into two unequal parts .
( X 3 .
) Eg .
24 .
Median longitudinal section through the plant represented as fig. 8 in 4 Phil. Trans. , ' 1885 , Plate 71 .
a. = apex ; l. = leaf ( protophyll ) ; r. = root* ( X 150 .
) ig .
25 ( i. , ii .
, iii .
) Successive transverse sections of the young leaf ( protophyll ) of the plant represented as fig. 10 in 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1885 , Plate 71 .
( X 150 .
) PLATE 44 .
ig- 26 .
Apex of a strobilus in median longitudinal section showing an initial cell ( t ) , two sporophylls ( l ' l " ) , the latter just beginning to be developed ; in connection with l ' is a sporangium , of which the archesporium ( a ) consists apparently of one cell .
( X 325 .
) 564 PROFESSOR F. O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY Fig. 27 .
Another section from the same sporangium , showing further segmentJL which may have been present in the section shown in fig. 26 , but jL invisible by the method of clearing used .
( X 325 .
) Fig. 28 .
A slightly older sporangium in radial section , ( x 325 .
) Fig. 29 .
An older sporangium , in which periclinal divisions have begun in the cells the wall of the sporangium .
( X 325 .
) Fig. 30 .
Radial section of a sporangium , in which the sporogenous cells are beginni to separate , but the tapetum is not yet formed from the inner layer the wall .
( X 150 .
) Fig. 31 .
Transverse section of a young sporangium .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 32 .
Transverse section of a sporangium , of which one half is shown ; the sh i^slightly younger than that of fig 30 .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 33 .
Tangential section of a sporangium , of which rather more than one ball shown ; the asterisk indicates the middle of the sporangium , ( x 325 Lycopodium , L. Fig. 34 .
Radial section through a sporophyll ( )at the base of which a sporangiun beginning to make its appearance as a slight swelling .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 35 .
A similar sporangium , in radial section , rather more advanced .
( X 300 .
Fig. 36 .
Ditto , older ; the archesporium is shaded , ( x 300 .
) Fig. 37 .
Ditto , a more advanced stage ; showing very regular segmentation .
( X30 Fig. 38 .
Ditto , showing a less regular type of segmentation .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 39 .
Ditto ; still less regular .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 40 .
Ditto , older ; the tapetum ( \#163 ; .
) not yet complete , ( x 150 .
) Fig. 41 .
Ditto , older ; showing the spore-mother-cells separated from one anotl but not yet divided into tetrads .
( X 150 .
) PLATE 45 .
Fig. 42 .
Tangential section of a young sporangium of Selago ; the cells numbei i. , ii .
, iii .
, correspond to those similarly numbered in fig. 36 ( x 300 .
) Fig. 43 .
Ditto , older , ( x 300 .
) Fig. 44 .
A small part of a similar section from a rather older sporangium .
( X 30C Fig. 45 .
Young sporangium , seen in superficial view .
( X 300 .
) = ste ] l. = sporophyll .
Fig. 46 .
A sporangium of almost the same age seen in transverse section ; comp* the line in fig. 42 ; the archesporial cells are shaded in both figures , a numbered ( ii .
) .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 47 .
Ditto .
( X 300 .
) OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
^ ,8 .
Ditto , older , before the tapetum is defined .
( X 300 .
) t 19 Ditto ; half of an older sporangium in which the formation of the tapetum ( t. ) is almost complete .
( X 300 .
) Lycopodium Phlegma L. yjo .
Tangential section of a young sporangium , showing the archesporium , referable to not more than four , and possibly to two cells .
( X 300 .
) Lycopodium carinatum , Desv . ?
.51 .
Transverse section of a sporangium , so as to traverse the sub-archesporial ip | ^ pad ( s.p. ) ; the two ends of the curved mass of sporogenous tissue are cut through , and are shaded ; this is intended for comparison -with a transverse section of the c\lt ; fertile frond " of Ophioglossum .
( X 300 .
) Lycopodium dichotomum Jacq .
d52 .
Part of the wall of sporangium in section ; the tapetum is shaded .
( X 150 .
) g 53 .
The same , showing the point of dehiscence .
( X 150 .
) Lycopodium inundatum , L. i 54 .
Radial section of a young sporangium , showing periclinal division in two distinct cells ; two archesporial cells are shaded .
( X 300 .
) i| 55 .
A similar section of an older sporangium .
( X 300 .
) Lycopodium clavatum , L. h 56 .
Radial section through a very young sporangium , showing the first periclinal division .
( .X 300 .
) i 57 .
Ditto , showing periclinal divisions in two distinct cells .
( X 300 .
) \ 58 .
Ditto , older , showing result of periclinal division in three cells ; the archesporium thus defined is shaded .
( X 300 .
) 59 .
Older sporangium , in radial section , with large sporogenous tissue , so grouped as to be still referable to three original cells ; compare fig. 58 .
( X 300 .
) PLATE 46 .
60 .
Radial section of an older sporangium ; st. = the adaxial side : the sporogenous tissue not shaded , it is still referable to the three parent cells , , the lower limit of the groups being here unusually irregular .
The tapetum is shaded .
( X 300 ) .
566 PROFESSOR F. O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY Fig. 61 .
Radial section of a sporangium , which shows early periclinal divisions oft superficial cells ; the fate of the inner cells ( o , o ) is uncertain ; \#151 ; v , cular bundle .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 62 .
Ditto .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 63 .
Tangential section of a sporophyll bearing a sporangium of age correspond to that in fig. 56 ; the periclinal walls have not yet appeared in all \ parent cells of the sporangium .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 64 .
A similar section of an older sporangium ; in both of these the archespori is shaded , ( x 300 .
) Fig. 65 .
Part of a tangential section of an older sporangium ; t. =tapeti v.b. = vascular bundle ; s.a. = sub-archesporial pad ; sporogenous tissu deeply shaded , ( x 300 .
) Fig. 66 .
Small part of the sub-archesporial tissue , showing a process rising upwj into the mass of spore-mother-cells .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 67 .
A similar part from an almost mature sporangium ; the irregular up'w processes are now partly disorganized .
( X 150 .
) Fig. 68 .
View of the superficial cell-net of a sporangium , as seen from ab ( X 300 .
) Fig. 69 .
Transverse section of such a sporangium traversing the archesporium , wl is shaded , ( x 300 .
) Fig. 70 .
Transverse section of an older sporangium ; the three rowTs of parent cell the sporogenous tissue may be still recognized .
( X 300 .
) Lycopodium L , Fig. 71 .
Radial section through a sporophyll and young sporangium , ( x 300 .
) Fig. 72 .
Ditto , the archesporium shaded , ( x 300 .
) Fig. 73 .
Ditto , rather older .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 7 4 .
Ditto , the cells marked ( X ) have apparently been derived by extra pericl divisions from the superficial cells .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 75 .
Radial section of an older sporangium in which the spore-mother-cells about to separate .
The vascular bundle shows a slight extension upwi into the stalk of the sporangium , ( x 150 .
) PLATE 47 .
Fig. 76 .
Tangential section through a young sporangium , showing an archespor consisting of twelve cells , which are shaded .
( X 300 .
) Fig. 77 .
An upgrowth of the sub-archesporial tissue as a process , which proj\lt ; between the sporogenous cells , ( x 300 .
) OP SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
Selaginella Martensii , Spring .
r.f8 .
Radial section , including apex ( ap .
) , and traversing a young sporophyll ( ?
) and sporangium ( a ?
) .
( X 550 .
) fj9 .
Ditto , rather older .
( X 550 .
) Selaginella spinosa , P.B. *.80 .
Radial section through a very young sporangium .
( X 550 .
) *81 .
Ditto .
( X 550 .
) r82 .
Ditto .
( X 550 .
) \gt ; 83 .
Ditto .
( X 550 .
) \gt ; , 84-86 .
Ditto , older .
( X 550 .
) \gt ; 87 .
Ditto , a good deal older , showing all the essential parts of the sporangium together with ligule , and part of sporophyll .
( X 300 .
) \gt ; 88 .
Tangential section of a sporangium of about the same age as figs. 84-86 : the archesporium is referable apparently to four parent cells .
( X 550 .
) i 89-90 .
Transverse sections of sporangia of two different ages .
1 .
= ligule , t. = tapetum , sp. = sporogenous tissue .
( X 300 .
) [ 91 .
Radial section of a megasporangium showing the single tetrad still very small , and the rest of the potential sporogenous cells arrested .
( X 150 .
) I 92 .
a-w .
Low-power drawings , showing outlines of the sporangia of various species , in radial , tangential , and transverse sections , together with parts of the sporophylls : a , b , c , Phylloglossum Drummondii ; d , e , L. Selago ; g , h , i , L. phlegmaria ; , m , L , inundatum ; n , o , p , L. carinatum ; q , r , s , L. alpinum ; t , u , L. clavatum .
( X 18 .
) PLATE 48 .
Lepidostrobus Brownii , Schpr .
93 .
Wall of sporangium from a tangential section of the cone ( No. 7 in the Museum series of tangential sections ) : it shows the outer sclerotic series of cells ( sc ? .
) , with several layers of thin-walled cells within .
( X 150 .
) 94 , From a photograph of part of a transverse section of the cone , showing three sporangia , with the upward projecting sub-archesporial pad as a median ridge ( n ) .
( X 4^ .
) 4g- 95 .
From a photograph of a tangential section of the cone . .
ig- 96 .
Drawing of a sporangium in tangential section of the cone with its sporophyll ( sp. ) , slightly diagrammatic , r. = sub-archesporial ridge ; v.b. = vascular bundle ; p s= processes rising from the ridge .
( X 8 .
) 568 PROFESSOR F.O. BOWER ON THE MORPHOLOGY Fig. 97 .
Part of a radial section of the cone showing a small part of the base of a sporangium ; r.r. = the sub-archesporial ridge , together with the proces ( p.p. ) which rise from it .
( X 40 .
) Fig. 98 .
The ridge ( r. ) as seen in tangential section of the cone ( compare figs. 95 9^ showing on a larger scale the processes which project far upwards int the mass of spores , ( x 40 .
) Fig. 99 .
A sporangium from the apex of the cone , cut tangentially ( compare fig , 95 The sporangium was not fully matured , and showed very large process* ( p ) springing from the sub-archesporial ridge , and continuous upwarc towards the upper wall of the sporangium , ( x 40 .
) Fig. 100 .
Another such , with its sporophyll .
( X 40 .
) Figs. 99 and 100 are tak\lt ; jfrom slide No. 9 of the tangential series in the British Museum .
Lepidostrobus , sp. , Hough Hill .
Fig. 101 .
From a photograph of a Lepidostrobus from Hough Hill , supplied 1 Mr. Lomax , and cut tangentially .
The sporophylls and sporangia a easily seen , while each sporangium shows a dark process rising from ti slightly convex sub-archesporial pad , and extending far upwards into ti sporogenous mass .
( X 4^ .
) Fig. 102 .
The base of one of these processes seen under a higher power , and showii the cellular structure of the lower part , though this structure is lc upwards .
( X 150 .
) Lepidodendron JBrownii , Schpr .
Fig. 103 .
Similar section from Schimper 's smaller cone , in the British Museu ; showing ridge ( r. ) and processes ( p.p. ) ( X 20 .
) PLATE 49 .
Isoetes la , L. L. = ligule ; v. = velum ; t. = tapetum ; tr .
= trabeculae ; sp. = sporogenous tissue ; v.b. \#151 ; vascular bundle .
Fig. 104 .
Part of radial section of a plant which has traversed a young leaf !
median longitudinal section , the upper ( adaxial ) surface bears a rati regular layer of cells , as yet not divided periclinally ; these are the pare cells of the sporangium .
( X 300 .
) OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
569 105 .
These cells are represented in an older state , having divided by both periclinal and anticlinal walls ; the inner archesporial cells are shaded .
( X 300 .
) [ 06 .
A similar section , showing addition of cells ( x ) resulting from repeated periclinal division of superficial cells to the archesporium .
( X 300 .
) ; 107 , 108 .
Older sporangia with archesporium shaded .
( X ) = cells believed to have been added by subsequent periclinal division of superficial cells .
( X 300 .
) ,109 .
A much older sporangium , already developing as a microsporangium , in similar section , showing the sporogenous tissue as a connected and undifferentiated band .
( X 300 .
) 110 .
Part of an older microsporangium , in similar section , showing the potential archesporium differentiated into trabeculae ( tr .
) and sporogenous masses ( sp. ) , while the tapetum is also clearly defined : at ( * ) is an extra periclinal division in the wall .
( X 150 .
) 111 .
Transverse section of a sporophyll and microsporangium ; v.b. = vascular bundle of sporophyll .
Compare tangential sections of sporangia of Lycopodium ( figs. 33 , 43 , 64 , 65 ) .
( X 150 .
) 112 .
A microsporangium drawn under low power to show the irregularity of the trabeculae .
( X 8 .
) 113 .
Shows the structure of the trabeculae , as well as their irregularity ; the superficial layer has developed as a tapetum , which is shaded .
( X 150 .
) 114 .
A microsporangium in longitudinal section .
( X 20 .
) 115 .
The base of one of the trabeculae of an almost mature microsporangium , still showing cell-structure in its lower part , but disorganized above .
( X 150 .
) Compare fig. 102 of Lepidostrob .116 .
Transverse section of a sporophyll with a megasporangium , from which the spores have been removed ; the trabeculae are apparently regular . ! .
117 , a and b. A megasporangium which has been so cut as to remove the upper wall ( a ) , from which the trabeculae project into the cavity of the sporangium ; ( b ) is the remainder of the sporangium , r. = the ridge , or sub-archesporial pad , which is to be compared vuth the similar part in Lepidostrobus ( fig. 94 , r. ) ; it is from this ridge that the ' irregularly disposed trabeculae arise .
( X 4 .
) PLATE 50 .
Tmesipteris tannensis , Bebnh .
H8 .
Median longitudinal section of the apex of a strongly growing stem , showing , an initial cell ( x ) , but a rather irregular disposition of the segments .
( X 150 .
) Fig. 119 .
Apical meristem of the axis of as seen from above : = cell , ( o ) = secondary initials , ( x 150 .
) Figs. 120 ( A and B ) , 121 .
Young leaves , in radial section of a bud , showing the d in which they originate on the axis .
( X 150 .
) Fig. 122 .
A young leaf as seen in transverse section of the axis , ( x 150 .
) Fig. 123 .
A more advanced leaf , probably vegetative ; at all events it shows as * no clear indication of bearing a synangium .
( X 150 .
) Fig. 124 .
A very young synangium arising on the adaxial surface of a leaf which closely similar to fig. 123 .
In this figure , as also in figs. 120-123 e basal line is more heavily marked .
Compare the later figures al\#187 ; ( X 150 .
) Fig. 125 .
Sporophyll bearing a much older synangium ; the apical cell ( x ) may s| ] he seen ; the basal line is darkly marked as before , and the sporogen s masses are shaded , ( x 150 .
) Fig. 125 , bis .
Another specimen of the same , showing very regular disposition of e tissues , ( x 150 .
) Fig. 126 .
An older synangium in radial section .
( X 150 .
) Fig. 127 .
A vertical section along a line , x , as shown in fig. 125 ; , l are the 14-lobes .
( x 150 .
) Figs. 128\#151 ; 130 .
Transverse sections of sporophvlls of successive ages , so cut asc traverse the lower sporangium .
leaf-lobes in fig. 130 .
( X 150 .
Fig. 131 .
Transverse section of an older sporangium , ( x 150 .
) PLATE 51 .
Fig. 131 , bis .
, a-i , spores from one normal synangium of Tmesipteris ; a is the usa type ; b-i show various abnormal forms , which appear to result frn .
incomplete division of the tetrads .
Lepidostrobus , sp. Fig. 132 .
From a photograph of a transverse section of a strobilus , showing partoi two sporangia , which have been traversed in a plane above the sub-arcs sporial pad , but so as to cut through the sterile projections .
These fcf the form of plates , which appear as dark streaks ( st. ) , continuous fc 8 considerable distance in a radial direction through the sporangium .
T11 may be one such streak or plate of sterile tissue , as in the lower sporangia of fig. 132 , or two less regular ones , as in the upper sporangium .
section shown in this figure has been slightly oblique : sp. = spores alnr^1 mature .
Fig. 133 .
A similar section showing three sterile plates ( st. ) , which projected upwah into the mass of spores ( sp. ) .
OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
Psilotum triquetrum , Sw .
134 .
Median longitudinal section of a sporophyll .
( X 150 .
) Compare figs. 124 and 125 of Tmesipteris .
135 .
Vertical section of a very young synangium , so as to traverse one of the three loculi .
( X 150 .
) j 36 .
Ditto , older .
( X 150 .
) 137 .
Ditto , older .
( X J50 .
) 138 .
Ditto , older , on a lower scale , ( x 100 .
) The cells shaded are the actual sporogenous cells .
139 .
Transverse section of a synangium , rather older than that in fig. 135 .
( X 150 .
) I , l \#151 ; leaf-lobes .
140 .
Ditto , older .
( X 150 .
) 141 .
Ditto , one sporangium .
( X 150 .
) 142 .
Ditto , older , ( x 150 .
) 143 .
144 illustrate the disorganization of certain cells of the sporogenous tissue , without forming spores .
( X 150 .
) 145 .
Transverse section through a sporangiferous bud of Tmesipteris .
ax .
.= axis , f \#151 ; foliage leaves , l. = lateral lobes , sy .
= synangia .
( X 20 .
) PLATE 52 .
Tmesipteris tannensis , Bernh .
146 .
Part of a radial section through a mature synangium , showing the groove between the sporangia , and the insertion of the septum .
( X 150 .
) 147 .
Radial section through a mature synangium , showing the vascular bundles .
( X 4 .
) 148 .
Section in the plane of the septum , showing the course of the vascular branches up the margin of the septum , ( X 4 .
) 149 .
A " double leaf , " with abortive synangium ( sy .
) .
( X 2 .
) \#166 ; 150 .
A synangium with the upper loculus abortive .
( X 2 .
) .
151 .
Ditto , with lower loculus abortive .
( X 2 .
) i* 152 .
Ditto , with correlative growth , in place of the abortive synangium , inserted on adaxial face .
( X 2 .
) J* 153 .
Abnormal sporangiophore ( a ) in lateral , ( b ) in abaxial , ( c ) in adaxial view ; sy .
probably represents the abortive synangium .
( X 2 .
) ? .
154 .
A normal sporangiophore from the middle of a fertile zone .
( X 2 .
) 155 .
A sporangiophore from the limit of a fertile zone , with very small leaf lobes .
( X 2 .
) 572 ON THE MORPHOLOGY OF SPORE-PRODUCING MEMBERS .
Fig. 156 .
A sporangiophore with trilocular synangium .
( x 2 .
) Fig. 157 .
Ditto , but less regular , ( x 2J .
) Fig. 158 .
Ditto , with synangium showing no transverse groove , ( x 2 .
) Fig. 159 .
Ditto , of type shown in section in fig. 164 .
( x 3 .
) Fig. 160 .
Ditto , synangium of spherical form , shown in section in fig. 168 .
s Fig. 161 .
Median section through a synangium of type shown in fig. ]5g ^ continuous sporogenous mass .
lig .
162 .
Detailed drawing from a similar section , showing the tissue , where septum should normally be present , developing as sporogenous cells and tapetum ( \#163 ; .
) .
( x 150 .
) Fig* 163 .
Synangium similar to fig. 161 , rather more advanced .
Fig. 164 .
Synangium similar to that of fig. 159 in radial section , showing no septi the cavity is filled with sporogenous and tapetal cells .
Fig. 165 .
Part , of these contents drawn in detail from another section of the s\#163 ; series , the line x , x , shows where the septum would normally be , w ] a chain of sporogenous cells stretches continuously across it .
( x 15C Figs. 166 , 167 .
Two transverse sections , the one ( fig. 167 ) higher up , the oi ( fig. 166 ) lower down in the same synangium .
Fig. 166 shows no sept Fig. 167 shows a septum cut through , which , therefore , only exten part way downwards into the cavity , from the upper wall of synangium .
Fig. 168 .
Transverse section through the spherical synangium shown in fig. 160 .
septum is present .
The figs. 132 , 133 , 161 , 163 , 164 , 166-168 are from photographs kindly prepa for me by Mr. J. Reid .
In conclusion , I wish to acknowledge the kindness of many friends , in contribut supplies of material for this and other kindred investigations .
Some of th supplies have been already mentioned in the above pages .
I cannot here give complete list , but wish especially to mention the repeated kindness of Baron \ Muller , in forwarding parcels of Phylloglossum , and to express thai to him , and to all other donors .
Phil. Traris.1894.B .
Pla42 Fig ?
/ \#151 ; 9 .
EQUISETUMA R VENSE .
L. CpmbndycEn.gra.ving CP Fig ?
10-14 .
" L/ MOSUM .
L. PkU .
Irons .
Fig ?
15-21 .
EquisetumL/ mosum .
L. Fig ?
22-24Phylloglossum Drummondii Cambridge Engpa^/ rg Fig ' } 26-33 .
PHYLLOGLOSSUM DRUMMOND ! !
F/ gs 34-41 .
Lycopod/ u m Selago .
l. stem Fig ?
42-49 .
Lycopodium Selago .
L. Fig. 50 .
L. PhlegmariaL .
Fig. 51 .
Fig ?
52- 55.L .
DICHOTOMUM JAGQ .
Fig L. / Fig'f 56-59 .
L. Clavatum L. wm Phil. Trans. 1894.B .
46 Plf\J X 150 Lycopodium Clavatum.- L L. Cam bridge Engrav/ ng_Co^ ^\if II [ !
' ijl ~r wm WmM jf^ Lycopod/ um Ip Selag/ N ELLA MARTENS !
L Spring .
S/ \#166 ; , , rm .
JransTm^KTra mmm\gt ; ^^ , igBr Fig ?
93-100 .
Lepidodendron Brownii .
Schpr .
Figs 101-102 .
Lepidodendron sp. Hough Hill .
Fiq .
103 .
Lepidodendron Brownii .
Cambb/ dgf Engbav/ ng Co. Phil. Trans .\8Q^B.Pla 4'9 .
F/ q ?
104-117 .
ISOETES LACUSTRIS .
L. Cambridge Engraving Co. Phil Trcins .
1894.B.5 0 Fig. 127 .
Fig. 129 .
Fig. .
131 .
Tmes/ pter/ stannen s/ s Bernh .
Cambr/ dge Engrav/ ng Co. Of\ I x ^ 7\#151 ; ttt / i \ i H Fig. / 3f .
4 \lt ; 3^ iw* wwww \FSM:."/ " ' , .
' \#166 ; \#166 ; \#151 ; " : ' Aa^r .
; \#166 ; .
; \#166 ; - , ... .
m " Jti , .
, ' *.*8*1 */ 4fc x / 50 .
X / 50 x / 50 .
x / 50 x/ 50^ , U Wr#/ #\lt ; 7 .
WMj illwP .
/ \| fc _ \#166 ; * X/ 50 .
x/ 50 .
Fig- 132 .
/ 33 .
Lep/ dodendron .
Fig ?
135-/ 44 .
Ps/ lotum Tr/ quetrum .
Siv .
Fig. 145 .
Tmes/ pterisTannens/ s. Bernh .
Cambridge Engraving Co. Phil. 7r^.l8y4.k^/ a^5 ?
Fig ?
146- 168.Tmes/ pteris Bernh .

