I. " Researches on Radiant Heat.-Fifth Menmoir .
Contributions to Molecular Physics .
" By J. TYNDALL , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received March 17 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) Considered broadly , two substances , or two forms of substance , occupy universe the ordinary and tangible matter of that universe , and the intangible aTnd mysterious ether in which that matter is immersed .
The natural philosophy of the future must mainly consist in the examination of the relationis of these two substances .
The hope of being able to come closer to the origin of the ethereal waves , to get some experimental hold of the molecules whence issue the undulations of light and heat , has stimtulated the author in the labours which have occupied him for the last five years , and it is this hope , rather than the desire to multiply the facts already known regarding the action of radiant heat , which prompted his present investigation .
He had already shown the enormnous differences which exist between gaseous bodies , as regards both their power of absorbing and emitting radiant heat .
When a gas is condensed to a liquiid , or a liquid congealed to a solid , the molecules coalesce , and grapple with each other , by forces which were insensible as long as the gaseous state was maintained .
But though the molecules are thus drawln together , the ether still surrounds them : hence , if the acts of radiation and absorption depend on the individual molecules , they will assert their power even after their state of aggregation has been changed .
If , on the contrary , their mutual entauglement by the force of cohesioni be of paramount influence in the interception and emission of radiant heat , then we may expect that liquids will exhibit a deportment towards radiant heat altogether different from that of the vapour from which they are derived .
The first part of the present inquiry is devoted to an exhaustive examination of this question .
The author employed twelve different liquiids , and operated upon five different layers of each , which varied in thickness from 0-02 of an inch to 0 27 of an inch .
The liquids were enclosed , not in glass vessels , which would have materially modified the heat , but between plates of transparent rock-salt , which but slightly affected the radiation .
His source of heat throughouit these comparative experiments consisted of a spiral of platinum wire , raised to incandescence by an electric current of unvarying strength .
The quanitities of radiant heat absorbed and transmitted by each of the liquids at the respective thicknesses were first determined ; the vapours of these liquids were subsequently examined , the quantities of vapouir employed being proportional to the qualntities of liquid traversed by the radiant heat .
The result of the comparisoni was that , for heat of the same quality , the order of absorption of liquids and that of their vapours are identical .
There was no exception to this law ; so that , to determine the position of a vapour as an absorber or radiator , it is only necessary to determine the position of its liquid .
This result proves that the state of aggregation , as far , at all evenits , as the liquid stage is concerned , is of altogether subordinate moment-a conclusion which will probably prove to be of cardinal moment in molecular physics .
On one important and contested point it has a special bearing .
If the position of a liquid as an absorber and radiator determine that of its vapour , the position of water fixes that of aqueous vapour .
Water had been compared with other liquids in a mtultitude of experiments , and it was found that as a radiant and as an absorbent it transcends them all .
Thus , for example , a layer of bisulphide of carbon , 0)02 of an inch in thickness , absorbs 6 per cent. , and allows 94 per cent. of the radiation from the red- ' hot platinum spiral to pass through it ; benzol absorbs 43 , and transmits 57 per cent. of the same radiation ; alcohol absorbs 67 , and transmits 33 per cent. , and it stands at the head of all liquids except one in point of power as an absorber .
The exception is water .
A layer of this substance , of the thickness above given , absorbs 81 per cent. , and permits only 19 per cent. of the radiation to pass through it .
Had no single experiment ever been made upon the vapour of water , we might infer with certainty from the deportment of the liquid , that weight for weight this vapour transcends all others in its power of absorbing and emitting radiant heat .
The relation of absorption and radiation to the chemical constitution of the radiant and absorbent substances was next briefly considered .
For the first six substances in the list of those examined , the radiant and absorbent powers augment as the number of atoms in the compound molecule augments .
Thus , bisulphide of carbon has 3 atoms , chloroform 5 , iodide of ethyl 8 , benzol 12 , and amylene 15 atoms in their respective molecules ; and the order of their powers as radiants and absorbents is that here indicated-bisulphide of carbon being the feeblest , and amylene the strongest of the six .
Alcohol , however , excels benzol as an absorber , though it has but 9 atoms in its molecule ; but , on the other hand , its molecule is rendered more complex than that of benzol by the introduction of a new element .
Benzol contains carbon and hydrogen , while alcohol contains carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen .
Thus , not only does the idea of multitude come into play in absorption and radiation , that of complexity must also be taken into account .
The author directed the particular attention of chemists to the molecule of water ; the deportment of this substance towards radiant heat being perfectly anomalous , if the chemical formula at present ascribed to it be correct .
Sir William Herschel made the important discovery that beyond the limits of the red end of the solar spectrum , rays of high heating power exist which are incompetenit to excite vision .
The author has examined the deportment of those rays towards certain bodies which are perfectly opaque to light .
Dissolving iodine in the bisulphide of carbon , he obtained a solution which entirely intercepted the light of the most brilliant flames , while to the extra-red rays of the spectrum the same iodine was found to be perfectly diathermic .
The transparent bisulphide , which is highly pervious to the heat here employed , exercised the same absorption as the opaque solution .
A hollow prism filled with the opaque liquid was placed in the path of the beam from an electric lamp ; the light-spectrum was completely intercepted , but the heat-spectrum was received upon a screen , and could be there examined .
Falling upon a thermo-electric pile , its presence was shown by the prompt deflection of even a coarse galvanometer .
What , then , is the physical meaning of opacity and transparency , as regards light and radiant heat ?
The luminous rays of the spectrum differ from the non-luminous ones simply in period .
The sensation of light is excited by waves of ether shorter and more quickly recurrent than those which fall beyond the extreme red .
But why should iocline stop the former , and allow the latter to pass ?
The answer to this question , no doubt , is , that the intercepted waves are those whose periods of recurrence coincide with the periods of oscillation possible to the atolms of the dissolved iodine .
The elastic forces which separate these atoms are such as to compel them to vibrate in definite periods , and when these periods syn .
chronize with those of the ethereal waves the latter are absorbed .
Briefly defined , their transparency in liquids , as well as in gases , is synonymous with discord , while opacity is synonymous with accord between the periods of the waves of ether and those of the molecules of the body on which they impinge .
All ordinary transparent and colourless substances owe their transparency to the discord which exists between the oscillating periods of their molecules and those of the waves of the whole visible spectrum .
The general discord of the vibrating periods of the molecules of compound bodies with the light-giving waves of the spectrum may be inferred from the prevalence of the property of transparency in compounds , solid , liquid , and gaseous , while their greater harmony with the extra-red periods is to be inferred from their opacity to the extra-red rays .
Water illustrates this transparency and opacity in the most striking manner .
It is highly transparent to the luminous rays , which demonstrates the irncompetencv of its molecules to oscillate in the periods which excite vision .
It is as highly opaque to the extra-red undulations , which proves the synchronism of its periods with those of the longer waves .
If , then , to the radiation from any source water shows itself to be eminently or perfectly opaque , it is a proof that the molecules whence the radiation emanates must oscillate in what may be called extra-red periods .
Let us apply this test to the radiation from a flame of hydrogen .
This flame consists mainly of incandescent aqueous vapour , the temperature of which , as calculated by Bunsen , is 32590 C. , so that if transmission augments with temperature , we may expect"the radiation from this flame to be copiously transmitted by the water .
While , however , a layer of the bisulphide of carbon OQ7 of an inch in thickness transmits 72 per cent. of the incident radiation , and every other liquid examined transmits more or less of the heat , a layer of water of the above thickness is entirely opaque to the radiation from the flame .
Thus we establish accord between the periods of the molecules of cold water and those of aqueous vapour at a temperature of 32590 C. But the periods:of water have already been proved to be extra-red ; hence those of the hydrogen flame must be extra-red also .
The absorption by dry air of the heat emitted by a platinum spiral raised to incandescence by electricity was found to be insensible , while that by the ordinary undried air was 6 per cent. Substituting for the platinum spiral a hydrogeni flame , the absorption by dry air still remained insensible , while that of the undried air rose to 20 per cent. of the entire radiation .
The temperature of the hydrogen flame was as stated , 32590 C. , that of the aqueous vapour of the air was 200 C. Suppose , then , the temperature of our aqueous vapour to rise from 200 C. to 32590 C. , we must conclude that the augmentation of temperature is applied to an increase of amnplitude , and not to the initroduction of periods of quicker recurrence inito the radiationi .
The part played by aqueous vapour in the economy of Nature is far more wonderful than hiitherto supposed .
To nourish the vegetation of the earth , the actinic and luminous rays of the sun must penetrate our atmosphere , and to such rays aqueous vapour is eminently transparenit .
The violet and the extra-violet rays pass through it with freedom .
To protect vegetation from destructive chills , the terrestrial rays must be checked in their transit towards stellar space , and this is accomplished by the aqueous vapour diffused through the air .
This substanlce is the great moderator of the earth 's temperature , bringing its extremes into proximity , and obviating contrasts between day and night which would render life insupportable .
But we can advance beyonid this general statement now that we know the radiation from aqueous vapour is intercepted , in a special degree , by water , and reciprocally , the radiation from water by aqueous vapouir ; for it follows from this that the very act of nocturnal refrigeration which produces the condensation of aqueous vapour upon the surface of the earth-giving , as it were , a varnish of liquid water to that surface-imparts to terrestrial radiation that particular character which disqualifies it from passing through the earth 's atmosphere and losing itself in space .
And here we come to a question in molecular physics which at the present moment occupies the attention of able and distinguished men .
By allowing the violet and extra-violet rays of the spectrum to fall upon sulphate of quiniine and other substances , Professor Stokes has changed the periods of those rays .
Attempts have been made to produce a similar result at the other end of the spectrum-to convert the extra-red periods into periods competent to excite vision-but hitherto without success .
Such a change of period the author believed occurs when a platinum wire is heated to whiteness by a hydrogell flame .
In this common experiment there is an actual breaking-up of lolng periods into short ones -a true rendering of invisual periods visual .
The change of refrangibility here effected differs from that of Professor Stokes , first , by its being in the opposite direction , that is from lower to higher ; and secondly , in the circumstance that the platinum is heated by the collision of the molecules of aqueQus vapour , and before their heat has assumed the radiant form .
But it cannot be doubted that the same effect would be produced by radiant heat of the same periods , provided the motion of the ether could be rendered sufficiently intense .
The effect , in principle , is the same whether we consider the platinum wire to be struck by a particle of aqueous vapour oscillating at a certaini rate , or by a particle of ether oscillating at the same rate .
By plunging a platinum wire into a hydrogenflame we cause it to glow , and thus introduce shorter periods ilito the radiation .
These , as already stated , are in discord with water ; hence we should infer that the transmission through water will be more copious when the wire is in the flame than when it is absent .
Experiment proves this conclusion to be true .
Water , from being opaque , opens a passage to 6 per cent. of the radiations from the flame and spiral .
A thifn plate of colourless glass , moreover , transmitted 58 per cent. of the radiation from the hydrogen flam-e ; but when the flamne and spiral were employed 78 per cent. of the heat was transmitted .
For an alcohol flame Klinoblauch and Melloni found glass to be less transparent than for the same flame with platinum spiral immersed in it ; but Mellonii afterwards showed that this result was not general , that black glass and black mica were decidedly more diathermic to the radiation from the pure flame .
The reason of this is now obvious .
Black mica and black glass owe their blackness to the carbon diffused through them .
The carbon , as proved by Melloni , is in some measure transparent to the extra-red rays , and the author had in fact succeeded in transmitting between 40 and 50 per cent. of the radiation from a hydrogen flame through a layer of carbon sufficient to intercept the light of the most brilliant flames .
The products of combustion of the alcohol flame are carbonic acid and aqueouis vapour , the heat of which is almost wholly extra-red .
For this radiation the carbon is in a considerable degree transparent , while for the radiation from the platinum spiral it is in a great measure opaque .
By the introduction of the platinum wire , therefore , the transparency of the pure glass and the opacity of its carbon were simultaneously augmented ; but the augmentation of opacity exceeded that of transparency , and a difference in favour of opacity remained .
No more striking or instructive illustration of the influence of coincidence could be adduced thian that furnished by the radiation from a carbonic oxide flame .
Here the product of combustion is carbonic acid ; and on the radiation from this flame even the ordinary carbonic acid of the atmosphere exerts a powerful effect .
A quantity of the gas , only onethirtieth of an atmosphere in density , conitained in a polished brass tube four feet long , intercepted 50 per cenit .
of the radiation from the carbonic oxide flame .
For the heat emitted by solid sources , olefiant gas is an incomparably more powerful absorber than carbonic acid ; in fact , for such heat the latter substance , with one exception , is the most feeble absorber to be found among the compould gases .
For the radiation from the hydrogen flame , moreover , olefiant gas possesses twice the absorbent power of carbonic acid ; but for the radiation from the carbonic oxide flame at A common tension of one inch of mercury , while carbonic acid absorbs 50 per cent. , olefiant gas absorbs only 24 .
Thus we establish the coincidence of period between carbonic acid at a temperature over 30000 C. , the periods of oscillation of both the incandescent and the cold gas belonging to the extra-red portion of the spectrum .
It will be seen from the foregoing remarks and experiments how impossible it is to examine the effect of temperature on the transmission of heat , if different sources of heat be employed .
Throughout such an examination the same oscillating atoms ought to be retained .
The heating of a platinum spiral by an electric current enables us to do this while varying the temperature between the widest possible limits .
Their comparative opacity to the extra-red rays shows the general accord of the oscillating periods of our series of vapours with those of the extra-red undulations ; hence , by gradually heating a platinum wire from darkness up to whiteness , we gradually augment the discord between it and our vapours , and must therefore augment the transparency of the latter .
Experiment entirely confirms this conclusion .
Formic ether , for example , absorbs 45 per cent. of the radiation-from a ptirnum spiral heated to barely visible redness ; 32 per cent. of the radiation from the same spiral at a red heat ; 26 per cent. of the radiation from a white-hot spiral , and only 21 per cent. when the spiral is brought near its point of fusion .
Remarkable cases of inversion as to transparency occurred in these experiments .
For barely visible redness formic ether is more opaque than sulphuric ; for a bright red heat both are equally trarisparent , while for a white heat , and still more for a nearly fusing temperature , sulphuric ether is more opaque than formic .
This result gives us a clear view of the relationship of the two substances to the luminiferous ether .
As we initroduce waves of shorter period ' the sulphuric augments most rapidly in opacity ; that is to say , its accord with the shorter waves is greater than that of the formic .
Hence we may infer that the molecules of formic ether oscillate as a whole more slowly than those of sulphuric ether .
Wthen the source of heat was a Leslie 's cube filled with boiling water and coated with lampblack , the opacity of formic ether in comparison with sulphuric was very decided ; with this source also the position of chloroformn , as regards iodide of methyl , was inverted .
For a white-hot spiral , the absorption of chloroform vapour being 10 per cent. , that of iodide of methyl is 16 ; with the blackened cube as source , the absorption by chloroform is 22 per cent. , while that by the iodide of methyl is only 19 .
This inversion is not the result of temperature merely ; for when a platinum wire heated to the temperature of boiling water was employed as a source , the iodide was the most powerfuil absorbent .
Numberless experiments , indeed , prove that from heated lampblack an emission takes place which synchronizes in an especial manner with chloroform .
This may be thus illustrated .
For the Leslie 's cube coated with lampblack , the absorption by chloroform is more than three times that by bisulphide of carbon ; for the radiation from the most luminous portion of a gas flame the absorption by chloroform is also considerably in excess of that by bisulphide of carbon ; while for the flame of a Bunsen 's burner , from which the incandescent carbon particles are removed by the free admixture of air , the absorption by bisulphide of carbon is nearly twice that by chloroform ; the removal of the incandescent carbon particles more than doubled in this instance the relative transparency of the chloroform .
Testing , moreover , the radiation from various parts of the same flame , it was found that for the blue base of the flame the bisulphide was the most opaque , while for all other portions of the flame the chloroform was most opaque .
For the radiation from a very small gas flame , consisting of a blue base and a small white top , the bisulphide was also most opaque , and its opacity very decidedly exceeded that of the chloroform when the flame of bisulphide of carbon was employed as a source .
Comparing the radiation from a Leslie 's cube coated with isinglass with that from a similar cube coated with lampblack , at a common temperature of 1000 C. , it was found that out of eleven vapours all but one absorbed the radiation from the isinglass most powerfully ; the single exception was chloroform .
It may be remarked that whenever , through a change of source , the position of a vapour as an absorber of radiant heat was altered , the position of the liquid from which the vapour was derived was changed in the same manner .
It is still a point of difference between eminent investigators as to whether radiant heat up to a temperature of 100 ?
C. is monochromatic or not .
Some affirm this , others deny it .
A long series of experiments enables the author to state that probably no two substances at a temperature of 100 ?
C. emit heat of the same quality .
The heat emitted by isinglass , for example , is different from that emitted by lampblack , and the heat emitted by cloth or paper differs from both .
It is also a subject of discussion whether rocksalt is equally diathermic to all kinds of calorific rays , the differences affirmed to exist by one investigator being ascribed by others to differences of incidence from the various sources employed .
MM .
De la Provostaye and Desains maintain the former view , Melloni and M. Knoblauch maintain the latter .
The question was examined by the author without changing anything but the temperature of the source .
Its size , distance , and surroundings remained the same , and the experiments proved that rock-salt shared in some degree the defect of all other substances ; it is not perfectly diathermic , and it is more opaque to the radiation from a barely visible spiral than to that from a white-hot one .
The author devotes a section of his memoir to the relation of radiation to conduction .
Defining radiation , internal as well as external , as the communication of motion from the vibrating molecules to the ether , he arrives by theoretic reasoning at the conclusion that the best radiators ought to prove the worst conductors .
A broad consideration of the subject shows at once the general harmnony of the conclusion with observed facts .
Organic substances are all excellent radiators ; they are also extremely bad conductors .
The moment we pass from the metals to their compounds , we pass from a series of good conductors to bad ones , and from bad radiators to good ones .
Water , among liquids , is probably the worst conductor ; it is the best radiator .
Silver , among solids , is the best conductor ; it is the worst radiator .
In the excellent researches of MM .
De la Provostaye and Desains the author finds a striking illustrationl of what he regards as a iiatural law-that those molecules which transfer the greatest amount of motion to the ether , or , in .
other words , radiate most powerfully , are the least competent to communicate motion to each othel , or , in other words , to coniduct with facility .
carbonic acid ; but for the radiation from the carbonic oxide flame at a common tension of one inch of mercury , while carbonic acid absorbs 50 per cent. , olefiant gas absorbs only 24 .
Thus we establish the coincidence of period between carbonic acid at a temperature over 3000 ?
C. , the periods of oscillation of both the incandescent and the cold gas belonging to the extra-red portion of the spectrum .
It will be seen from the foregoing remarks and experiments how impossible it is to examine the effect of temperature on the transmission of heat , if different sources of heat be employed .
Throughout such an examination the same oscillating atoms ought to be retained .
The heating of a platinum spiral by an electric current enables us to do this while varying the temperature between the widest possible limits .
Their comparative opacity to the extra-red rays shows the general accord of the oscillating periods of our series of vapours with those of the extra-red undulations ; hence , by gradually heating a platinum wire from darkness up to whiteness , we gradually augment the discord between it and our vapours , and must therefore augment the transparency of the latter .
Experiment entirely confirms this conclusion .
Formic ether , for example , absorbs 45 per cent. of the radiationfrom a platinum spiral heated to barely visible redness ; 32 per cent. of the radiation from the same spiral at a red heat ; 26 per cent. of the radiation from a white-hot spiral , and only 21 per cent. when the spiral is brought near its point of fusion .
Remarkable cases of inversion as to transparency occurred in these experiments .
For barely visible redness formic ether is more opaque than sulphuric ; for a bright red heat both are equally transparent , while for a white heat , and still more for a nearly fusing temperature , sulphuric ether is more opaque than formic .
This result gives us a clear view of the relationship of the two substances to the luminiferous ether .
As we introduce waves of shorter period , the sulphuric augments most rapidly in opacity ; that is to say , its accord with the shorter waves is greater than that of the formic .
Hence we may infer that the molecules of formic ether oscillate as a whole more slowly than those of sulphuric ether .
When the source of heat was a Leslie 's cube filled with boiling water and coated with lampblack , the opacity of formic ether in comparison with sulphuric was very decided ; with this source also the position of chloroform , as regards iodide of methyl , was inverted .
For a white-hot spiral , the absorption of chloroform vapour being 10 per cent. , that of iodide of methyl is 16 ; with the blackened cube as source , the absorption by chloroform is 22 per cent. , while that by the iodide of methyl is only 19 .
This inversion is not the result of temperature merely ; for when a platinum wire heated to the temperature of boiling water was employed as a source , the iodide was the most powerfiul absorbent .
Numberless experiments , indeed , prove that from heated lampblack an emission takes place which synchronizes in an especial manner with chloroform .
This may be thus illustrated .
For the Leslie 's cube coated with lampblack , the absorption by chloroform is more than three times that by bisulphide of carbon ; for the radiation from the most luminous portion of a gas flame the absorption by chloroform is also considerably in excess of that by bisulphide of carbon ; while for the flame of a Bunsen 's burner , from which the incandescent carbon particles are removed by the free admixture of air , the absorption by bisulphide of carbon is nearly twice that by chloroform ; the removal of the incandescent carbon particles more than doubled in this instance the relative transparency of the chloroform .
Testing , moreover , the radiation from various parts of the same flame , it was found that for the blue base of the flame the bisulphide was the most opaque , while for all other portions of the flame the chloroform was most opaque .
For the radiation from a very small gas flame , consisting of a blue base and a small white top , the bisulphide was also most opaque , and its opacity very decidedly exceeded that of the chloroform when the flame of bisulphide of carbon was employed as a source .
Comparing the radiation from a Leslie 's cube coated with isinglass with that from a similar cube coated with lampblack , at a common temperature of 100 ?
C. , it was found that out of eleven vapours all but one absorbed the radiation from the isinglass most powerfully ; the single exception was chloroform .
It may be remarked that whenever , through a change of source , the position of a vapour as an absorber of radiant heat was altered , the position of the liquid from which the vapour was derived was changed in the same manner .
It is still a point of difference between eminent investigators as to whether radiant heat up to a temperature of 100 ?
C. is monochromatic or not .
Some affirm this , others deny it .
A long series of experiments enables the author to state that probably no two substances at a temperature of 100 ?
C. emit heat of the same quality .
The heat emitted by isinglass , for example , is different from that emitted by lampblack , and the heat emitted by cloth or paper differs from both .
It is also a subject of discussion whether rocksalt is equally diathermic to all kinds of calorific rays , the differences affirmed to exist by one investigator being ascribed by others to differences of incidence from the various sources employed .
MM .
De la Provostaye and Desains maintain the former view , Melloni and M. Knoblauch maintain the latter .
The question was examined by the author without changing anything but the temperature of the source .
Its size , distance , and surroundings remained the same , and the experiments proved that rock-salt shared in some degree the defect of all other substances ; it is not perfectly diathermic , and it is more opaque to the radiation from a barely visible spiral than to that from a white-hot one .
The author devotes a section of his memoir to the relation of radiation to conduction .
Defining radiation , internal as well as external , as the communication of motion from the vibrating molecules to the ether , he arrives by theoretic reasoning at the conclusion that the best radiators ought to prove the worst conductors .
A broad consideration of the subject shows at once the general harmony of the conclusion with observed facts .
Organic substances are all excellent radiators ; they are also extremely bad The moment we pass from the metals to their compounds , we pass from a series of good conductors to bad ones , and from bad radiators to good ones .
Water , among liquids , is probably the worst conductor ; it is the best radiator .
Silver , among solids , is the best conductor ; it is the worst radiator .
In the excellent researches of MM .
De la Provostaye and Desains the author finds a striking illustration of what he regards as a natural law-that those molecules which transfer the greatest amount of motion to the ether , or , in other words , radiate most powerfully , are the least competent to communicate motion to each other , or , in other words , to conduct with facility .

