XXII .
An account of the organs of generation of the Mexican Proteus , called by the natives Axolotl .
By Sir EVERARD HOME , Bart. V. P. R. S. Read June 17 , 1824 .
LHAT the Proteus from Germany , as well as that from Carolina , is an animal in its perfect state , I consider to have been proved by Baron CUVIER , in his account of the skeletons of these animals ; and when I found that their vertebrae were cupped , which is not the case in the Aquatic Salamander , to which in many respects they are nearly allied , that circumstance alone , with me , distinguished them from all the lizard tribe .
Having had the opportunity of examining the vertebrae of the Proteus from Mexico , and finding them also cupped , I could have no doubt of its belonging to the same tribe , and consequently an animal in it 's perfect state .
This , however , required proofs , that could only be afforded by an examination of the organs of generation in a developed state .
When Mr. BULLOCK went to Mexico , I requested him to bring me some specimens of this animal , and to collect information respecting it 's habits , more particularly its mode of generation .
In compliance with my request , Mr. BULLOCK brought me several specimens : they were found in a lake three miles from the city of Mexico .
The temperature of the water is never b , low 0o , and the elevation of the lake above the sea is 8000 feet : they were all taken in the same week in the month of June : at that season they are so abundant as to form a principalpart of the food of the peasantry , One day in June Mr. BULLOCK saw them in the market in thousands for sale ; these were brought from a lake called Tesenco , the elevation of which above the sea is still higher than the other .
A number of the natives were carrying them home o6 or 70 in a string .
Mr. BULLOCK was unable to procure any information respecting them , not even the marks that distinguish the male from the female : no one had taken notice of their food , their ova , or of their young.* Among the specimens thus procured , some proved to be male , some female .
The difference in the appearance of the external parts of generation is shown in the annexed drawings .
Although in some respect similar to the Aquatic SalamandEi ' , they are by no means the same .
Ithe male , at the time~ the testicles are daeveloped , the external protrusion is greatest it i : cmposed of numerous fine membranous pliae , which are not so dstinict when the internal organs are less developed .
The testicles in situ are o also show n anare of a more ~delica ttexture thantin the Aquatic Salamander ; but the other viscera : in the abdomen ' bear a close resemblance to those in that ' animal , particularly the:kidneys , and a large gland , which must be analogous to the vesiculae seminales , not being.met within the female .
Itis curious , that in the momentary contac which takes From examining the contents of the stomach , they are found to feed on inails and ' shrimps , 4K0 , zr%ln7l , c. TDCC C.XX4-V .
; L'iit-tz*X:T.,.qno .
-= ; ;=------L'==----------------- ?
------- ?
----------- ?
-__-____ : _ : ii 1 P:F:IC:r r §§( Fg rZ L F ?
I i : ?
i i i ?
; : ?
aini i i : jl::il : ?
;:i " ?
" " ' " ' --- ?
-s--it --1.i-i , :::::c ; ::i : : : : i , ?
;._ i ?
- ?
r ii : , a:r iii i ?
I : - : : : : 5B::a _ ; ?_--e -ii_d..i 1 : i " C:ii : " i ; fi ?
.:ii-:j::2-:::::'i : : j I , : ?
l'"ii ?
iiii : : : .
: i:rti ii::ii : ; M:::i ; m : LB il ' : -Ba : .
ci P:-----6 gil --(C , C'F , ' x are 1i iIiiiIii i place between the external parts of the male and female , those of the male appear to surround and enclose those of the female , contrary to what happens in other animals .
The female organs , in their developed state , are beautifully shown in the annexed drawings ; and from the appearance of the ova , they probably pass out singly .
Now that the three different kinds of Proteus are ascertained to be perfect animals , Mr. RuscoNI 's attack upon Mr. HUNTER'S want of sagacity , published at Milan in 1821 , in his work , entitled " Amours des Salamandres Aquatiques , " will revert upon himself and his friend Mons. de LACEPEDE , who too hastily concluded them to be larvae .
EXPLANATION OF THE " PLATES PLATE XXI .
Shows the external appearance of the organs of generation .
Fig. i. The male organs .
Fig. 2 .
The female organs ; both of the natural size .
PLATE XXII .
Shows the male organs in the different stages of develope .
meant .
Fig. i. The male Proteus laid open to show the heart , lungs , and gills in situ , as well as the organs of generation .
For an explanation of these , take the letters of reference annexed to Fig. 2 .
Fig. i , is of the natural size .
Fig. 2 .
The organs of generation removed from the body ; magnified two diameters .
a a. The external orifice composed of plica .
b. The urinary bladder .
cc .
What corresponds to vesiculae seminales .
dd .
What corresponds to COWPER'S glands , being met with in both sexes .
ee .
The testicles .
ff .
Kidreys .
gg .
Fatty bodies similar to those in the frog .
Fig. s. The external orifice expanded ; magnified two diameters .
Fig. 4 .
The testicle and the longitudinal mass of fat annexed to it ; magnified two diameters .
Fig ... The testicles having been removed , what corresponds to the vesiculae seminales and COWPER'S glands are exposed , and the kidneys lying between them ; the parts are of the natural size .
PLATE XXIII .
Shows the female organs in the different stages of developement .
Fig. i. The female Proteus laid open to show the ovaria and oviducts in the state of complete developement just before the ova are shed .
The parts of the natural size .
The orifices of the oviducts to receive the ova are expanded for that purpose .
Fig. a. The ovaria and oviducts removed from the body , and magnified two diameters .
The urinary bladder is distinctly seen , as well as the masses of fat lying between the ovaria ; the parts are magnified.two diameters .
Fig. 3 .
The ovarium of a Proteus in a virgin state .
The parts of the natural size .
Fig. 4 .
The oviduct in the virgin state ; of the natural size .
42s q , Fig. 5 .
The funnel-like opening of the oviduct when prepared to receive the ova ; magnified four diameters .
Fig. 6 .
The ova enclosed in the ovarium just before they are shed , and the mass of fat that lies close to the roots of their blood vessels ; magnified four diameters .
Fig. 7 .
An ovum with its natural covering , removed from the ovarium ; magnified six diameters .
Fig. 8 .
An ovum laid bare ; magnified six diameters .
Fig. 9 .
An ovum laid open ; magnified six diameters .

