VII .
" A Memoir on Curves of the Third Order .
" By ARTHenu CAYLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received Oct. 30 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) A curve of the third order , or cubic curve , is the locus represented by an equation such as U= ( * , x , y , z)3=0 ; and it appears by my Third Memoir on Quanitics , " that it is proper to consider , in connexion with the curve of the third order , U=0 , and its Hessian HU=0 ( which is also a curve of the third order ) , two curves of the third class , viz. the curves represented by the equations PU=0 and QU=0 .
These equations , I say , represent curves of the third class ; in fact , PU and QU are contravariants of U , and therefore , when the variables x , y , z of U are considered as point coordinates , the variables X , j , S of PU , QU must be considered as line coordinates , and the curves will be curves of the third class .
I propose ( in analogy with the form of the word Hessian ) to call the two curves in question the Pippian and Quippian respectively .
A geometrical definition of the Pippian was readily found ; the curve is in fact Steiner 's curve R0 mentioned in the memoir " Allgemeine Eigenschaften der algebraischen Curven , " Crelle , t. xlvii .
pp. 1-6 , in the particular case of a basis-curve of the third order ; and I also found that the Pippian might be considered as occurring implicitly in my " Memoir sir les Courbes du Troisieme Ordre , " Liouville , t. ix .
p. 285 , and " Nouvelles Remarques sir les Courbes du Troisieme Ordre , " Liouv .
t. x. p. 102 .
As regards the Quippian , have not succeeded in obtaining a satisfactory geometrical definition ; but the search after it led to a variety of theorems , relating chiefly to the first-mentioned curve , and the results of the investigation are contained in the present memoir .
Some of these results are due to Mr. Salmon , with whom I was in correspondence on the subject .
The character of the results makes it difficult to develope them in a systematic order ; but the results are given in such connexion one with another , as I have been able to present them in .
Considering the object of the memoir to be the establishment of a distinct geometrical theory of the Pippian , the leading results will be found summed up in the nine definitions or modes of generation of the Pippian , given in the concluding number .
In the course of the memoir I give some further developments relating to the theory in the memoirs in Liouville above referred to , showing its relation to the Pippian , and the analogy with theorems of Hesse in relation to the Hessian .

