Numb.41 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
Monday , November .
16 .
1668 .
The Contents .
An Account from Bristol of some Observations made in Hongroad this present year , by way of Answer to some of the Queries concerning the Tides , recommended No. 17 .
&amp; No. 18 .
An Extract of a Narrative communicated from Sevill , of Observations made in a late Voyage from Spain to Mexico , concerning the Minerals of Mexico , and particularly the exact and perfect way of separating the Silver from its Ore by Mercury , together with divers other Curiosities , Natural and Chemical .
Continuation of Dr. Wallis 's Second Letter on the printed Paper of Franciscus Du Laurens .
An Account of two Books : I. Tractatus duo , prior de RESPIRATION E ; alter de RACHITID E , A. JO H. MAYO W , &amp;c. Oxon .
1668 .
in 8~ .
II .
A Discourse concerning PHYSIC , and the many Abuses thereof by APOTHECARY S. London , 1668 .
in 8~ .
An Account of some Observations , made this present year by Capt. Samuel Sturmy in Hong-road within four miles of Bristol , in Answer to some of the Queries concerning the Tides , in No. 17 &amp; No. 18 .
I. I Have observed , that our Annual Spring-Tydes do happen in March and September , either at the Tide next before the Suns Ingress into the ~quinoctial points of Aries and Libra , or the next Tide after , according as the Moon is near her Full or Change , when the Sun thus enters into the said Signs : And then it flows in height about 7~ fathoms , or 45 .
foot ; the lowest Neap-tydes flowing in height 25 .
foot .
2 .
We observe also , that the lowest Neap makes the highest Spring , if the North-East Winds hinder not by blowing hard , and so keep back the Tides ; as usually they do when they blow : whose contrary winds ( South-west ) if they blow hard , make here the highest Tides .
3 , Concerning our Diurnal Tides , we observe , that from about the latter end of March till the latter end of September , they are about 1 .
foot and 3 .
inches higher perpendicularly in the Evening than in the Morning , that is , if high water happen after the Sun is past the Meridian , or in the Tides betwixt Noon and Midnight .
But from Michael-mas till our Lady-day we find the contrary , the Day-tydes being in that season higher by 15 .
inches than the Night tides , or the Tides between Midnight and Noon .
And this proportion holds in both , after the gradual Increase of the Tides rising from the Neap to the highest Spring , and the like Decrease of their Height till Neap again .
4 .
As for the higest Menstrual Spring-tyde , that is always the third after the Full Moon or Change-day , if it be not kept back by North-East winds , as it hath been , by my own Observations .
5 .
I have observed several times , that it flows here on the Change-day , when the Moon is East-South-East , the Tide flowing in for the space of 5 .
hours , and ebbing 7 .
hours ; so that there is an hour and an half difference from the Old Tables , which say , it flows but to the Moons being East and West : An Error so great , that by all means it ought to be rectified .
6 .
There is some difference in reck oning the Tides by the Moons Bearing on such a point of the Compass on the Full or Change day .
For then about that time only will the Rule hold to be exactly true .
But from the Change to the Quarters , and from the Full to the Quarters again in the NeapTydes , I have observed , it does not flow here by two points of the Compass so long .
But concerning the difference betwixt the New and Full Moon , and the Quarters , Mr. Henry Philipps hath framed a. Table for the rectification of this Error in the River of Thames ; to be found in Number 34 .
p. 656 , 657 .
of the Phil. Trans actions .
7 .
The water flows nor ebbs equal spaces in equal times , but its Velocity is strongest at the first both of the Flood and Ebb , and so gradually decreases until Full Sea or Low water .
This is observed in SpringTydes only , as you may see by the following Table , which I have made from my Observations of our Tides here .
To make them always so near as to half inches , is neither easy , nor material , or useful .
But this hath been likewise observed , that it hath flowed or ebbed at the first of the Tide one foot in 6 .
minutes , or that then the Tide ran out a foot in 6 .
minutes , or did rise so much in height .
The TydeTable by Hour-quarters .
Hours Hours &amp; quart .
Feet Inch &amp; quart .
Feet .
Inch .
1-2-7~ 1-2-7~ 2-2-6 .
2-2-6 .
3-2-6 .
3-2-6 .
1 ... -2-6 .
1 ... -2-6 .
1-2-6 .
~~ 2-2-5~ ~~ 3-2-5 .
~~ 2 ... -2-5 .
2 ... -9-0 1-2-3 .
~~ For the 2-2-3 .
For the ~~ flowing 3-2-3 .
Ebbing ~~ of 5 .
3 ... -2-3 .
of 7 .
3 .
: .
~8-0 1-2-2 .
~~ hours .
2-2-1 .
hours .
4 ... ~6-9 .
3-2-1 .
~~ 4 ... -2-1 .
5 ... -5-0 1-1-9 .
~~ 2-1-8 .
6 ... -4-0 3-1-8 .
~~ 5 ... -1-8 .
7 ... -3-0 45 .
feet circiter .
45 .
feet circiter .
[ The Observed did not think it necessary to make every where in the Ebbing the like Division , he doth in the flowing hours , alledging for that omission the easiness of such a division , soon made by any body , because of the near agreement betwixt the divisions of both .
] 8 .
The usual number of Tides from New Moon to New Moon , or from the Full to the Full , is Fifty nine .
9 .
In the River of Severn .
20 .
miles above Bristol near Newnham , 160 .
miles from the Rivers mouth ( Lundy , ) the head of the Flood , at its coming in in Spring-tydes , arises in height like a Wall near nine foot high , and so runs for many miles together , covering at once all the Shoals , which were dry before ; at which time all Vessels , that lye in the way of the said Headtydes , or ( as it is vulgarly called ) Boar , are commonly overset or carried upon the Banks , and the head of the Tide being past , such Vessels are left dry again .
It flows there but two hours , and eighteen foot in height , and it ebbs ten hours .
The reason of the said Boar is doubtless the straightening and shoaling of the River in that place , it being there but half a mile broad ; as it is but 20 .
pearches over , three miles higher ; running tapering to Glocester .
So far this Observer ; To whom as there are due particular acknowledgements for his care of observing hitherto , and for his frankness of communicating ; so he is further desired to continue his Observations with as much exactness as may be , according to the directions set down in the above mentioned Numb. 18 .
especially to take particular notice , whether the Annual High-tydes , which he seems to fix on those ( be it at New or Full ) which happen nearest the Equinox , ( be it before or after it ) be not always before the Vernal ~quinox in March , and upon the New Moon ; and always after the Autumnal in September , and upon the Full-moon Spring-tydes : Forasmuch as by a former relation , imparted by a curious Gentleman , we have been informed , that the Annual highest Tides about Chepstow-bridge , were at St. Davids and Michaelmas-Stream , that is , the one a little before the Vernal , and the other somewhat after the Autumnal ~quinox , which agrees also with the Conjecture of a very intelligent Mathematician , who is withal of opinion , that because both are not far from the ~quinoxes , ( though the one before , the other after ) it might well give occasion to think it was depending on the AE quinox .
Moreover , the curious Reader may be pleased to compare this Account with that , which was given concerning the Tides observed at Plymouth , Numb. 33 .
P. 633 .
and to take notice , that the difference of the Day-tyde from the Night-tyde , agrees in both , ( of which the reason may be considered ; ) but , as to the difference of the increase and decrease of the Water about Bristol from what Mr. Colepress observed at Plymouth , that may much depend upon the position of the places ; that of Plymouth being out to the Sea , this near Bristol being on the Severn fat within Land .
Whilst the Reader is comparing this Information ; with that of the lately cited No. 33 .
he will meet there page .
633 .
in the last line , with the word perpetual , which he is desired to change into proportional ; which indeed should have been intimated much

