IX .
" Variations in Human Myology observed during the Winter Session of 1865-66 at King 's College , London .
" By JOHN WOOD , F.R.C.S. , Demonstrator of Anatomy .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY .
Received May 3 , 1866 .
In the present paper are given the results of observations , made with the greatest possible accuracy and care , of the muscular anatomy of thirty-four subjects , chiefly of the male sex , with an especial view to the study of the combinations of these abnormalities , and the directions in which they chiefly tend .
To enable the reader more readily to comprehend these results , the author has tabulated them in the sheet appended to the paper .
In the Table the names of the muscles placed at the head of each column refer to those in which more than one variety has been observed in the session .
They will be found to correspond very closely with those given in the former papers by the author .
In columns 4 , 21 , and 27 are placed those of which only one example has been met with .
Some of these , however , are of much importance .
To explain the nature of the abnormality more precisely than could be done in the Table , a word or two will be necessary on such of the specimens as may be considered novel or typical .
Four columns are occupied by variations of the head and neck , the examples of which amount in the aggregate to twenty-two ; some of the muscles in these may , however , strictly be considered as muscles also of the upper extremity , especially those in col .
3 , which I have denominated cleido-occipital .
Col. 1 .
Platysma myoides.-The first of the two varieties noted ( in subject 20 ) was connected with the inner side of the lower end of the normal muscle , the fibres passing in a broad band downwards and inwards , over the origin of the sterno-cleido-mastoid , the clavicle , and upper fibres of the pectoralis major to be inserted into the fascia covering the sternum as far down as the third costal cartilage .
The second ( subject 29 ) was connected internally with the sternal fascia between the second and third costal cartilages , and crossing obliquely outwards and downwards over the lower fibres of the pectoralis major and axillary cavity , became attached to the tendon of the latissimus dorsi , exactly as we find its homologue , the panniculus carnosus , to do in the lower animals .
This variety of the Platysma does not appear to have been previously recorded .
2 .
Digastric.-The two varieties of this muscle were found , as usual , in the anterior belly , which was double .
In the first ( No. 1 ) the redundant belly was attached by the median raphb to the one on the other side , and was implanted upon the tendon in the usual manner .
The second decussated with its fellow on the opposite side , and each became attached to a part of the digastric fossa on the opposite half of the mandible , as given in the author 's first paper , alud described by Henle and other anatomists .
3 .
Cleido-occipital.-The author has ventured to bestow this name upon a muscle which proved , when looked after , to be so common that not less than eleven specimens were found out of the thirty-four subjects .
It will be best understood by reference to fig. 7 a , in the subject of which it was found in conjunction with a sternoclavicular muscle .
It is placed along the hinder border of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus , usually separated , however , by a distinct areolar interval from both the sternal and clavicular fibres of this muscle .
It is attached below to the juinction of the innier and middle thirds of the upper border of the clavicle , and above to the superior curved line of the occipital bone , close to the origin of the trapezius mnisele .
It is described by Meckel ( Handbuch der mensch .
Anatomy , 1816 , p. 474 ) as an accessory to the sterno-cleido-mastoid sometimes met with .
It may be considered as a lateral extenlsion and separation of part of the clavicular fibres of the sterno-cleido-mastoid , which , in the nlormlal arrangement , are crossed and entirely covered at the upper part by the sternal portion , and do not extend at their insertion beyond the mastoid portion of the temporal bone .
The author has found that in the Guineapig and some other Rodents it constitutes a separate muscle , entirely distinct from the sterno-mastoid , carrying with it the whole of the clavicular fibres of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus .
In the Dog and Cat , and probably in the other Carnivora , it forms part of the long muscle , the cephalo-hIumeral .
In these animals the cleido-mastoid is a distinct muscle , joining with the cephalo-humeral at the rudimentary clavicle .
In the Hedgehog , on the other hand , the cleido-mastoid is blended with the sterno-mastoid , while the cleido-occipital is placed as a distinct muscle behind it .
In the Apes and Monkeys it is always present , but continuous with the hinder border of the true sterno-cleido-mastoid , with a more or less distinct intermuscular space* .
The above peculiarities of its comparative anatony , and the fact of its separate attachment to the occipital bone , instead of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone , have induced the author to propose the niame here given to it .
4 .
Of the single specimens in this column the levator claviculte was in most respects the counterpart to that given in the author 's last paper ; but it was found only on the left side , arising from the three upper cervical transverse processes in front of the levator anguli scapulte , and inserted into the outer half of the clavicle , behind the anterior fibres of the trapezius .
On the opposite side it was not found , but a very distinct cleidooccipital was present .
This again was not found on the left side , but appeared to supply the place of the levator claviculca .
The costo-fascialis cervicalis , of subject 28 , was in every respect like those described in the author 's two last papers .
The sternalis brutorum was a small developmenl t on the right side only , reaching from the third to the sixth costal cartilage .
The rest of the muscles in this column scarcely need a more extended description than is there found .
No less than seventeen out of the twenty-seven columns denoting the different kinds of variety are occupied by those of the arm , of which there are seventy-one examples .
5 .
Epigastric slips of the _pectoralis major presented various degrees of development of the so-called chondro-epitrochlear muscle of the Apes and Monkeys , but reaching only as far as the insertion of the rest of that muscle into the bicipital ridge , and terminating distinctly from it .
None of them were so complete in their developmenit as those described in the author 's first paper .
One specimen is seen in fig. 1 a , in significant cornbination with the ape-like variation placed in the next column .
6 .
The developments of the pectoralis minor given in this column are such as may easily be overlooked , but when closely sought for , as in the last session , have yielded no less than five specimens out of thirty-four subjects .
The variety consists in the prolongation of the tendon of insertion as a flat tendinous slip , sometirnes connected with a large portion of the muscular fibres , over the upper surface of the coracoid process , which is grooved distinctly for its reception .
This tendon then joins that of the supraspinatus muscle , and blending with it and the capsular ligament , is implanted into the upper facet of the greater tuberosity of the humerus ( see fig. 1 6 ) .
In the subject of the sketch ( a female ) aniother tendinous slip was directed upwards and outwards , and lost upon the coraco-acromial ligament .
The insertion of the pectoralis minor into the shoulder-joint capsule is mentioned by Meckel ( op .
cit. p. 467 ) , giving Gantzer as his authority * .
This prolongation of the tendon to the humerus reaches to a greater extent in the Monkeys in proportion to the diminution in size of the coracoid process .
In the Carnivora it is entirely inserted into the greater tuberosity , and blends more or less intimately with the pectoralis major .
In subject 22 the upward direction of the insertiork of the pectoralis minor becomes more marked as an insertion of the upper muscular fibres into the costo-coracoid membrane and the clavicle itself .
The origin of the muscle was in this case higher than usual , reaching to the first intercostal aponeurosis .
This upward development of the pectoralis minor is an approximation to the condition of its insertion in the Rodents , and , as the author believes , is a formation identical with the sternoclavicular muscle , and fouind in subject 27 , column 21 ( fig. 7 ) .
7 .
In this column are given two opposite tendencies of development of the latissimus dorsi .
Of the first are those not uncommon slips of communication between this muscle and the insertion of the pectoralis major , passing in front of the axillary vessels and nerves ( see fig. 1 c ) , described by Meckel , Langer , and Gruber ( Achselbogen ) .
The author re* De Souza describes a case in which the whole of the peceoralis minor was inserted into the capsuLle of the shoulder-joint ( Gazette Medicale , 1855 , No. 12 ) .
gards these as imperfect developments of the so-called dorsi-epitrochlear muscle of the lower animals .
None have been found this session extensively developed , and these only in three subjects , of which the last ( No. 32 ) was one remarkable for the num-lber of its muscular abnormalities .
The other varieties found were two specimens of the remarkable offset sent from the latisssimus uipwards towards the coracoid process , which the author described in his paper read two years ago to the Society , urnder the name of the chondro-coracoid muscle .
It arises with the upper costal fibres of the latissimus from the ninth and tenth rib-cartilages , asceniding so as to cross the axillary cavity obliquely outwards .
In the specimen figured in the author 's first series it was inserted with the.pectoralis minor into the tip of the coracoid process .
In subject 10 ( fig. 2 ) it is inserted partly into the lower surface of that process ( a ) , and partly into the capsular ligament of the shoulder with the tendon of the supra spinatus ( b ) .
It will be observed to pass between the trunks of the axillary plexus , separating the posterior from the lateral cords .
The latter and the vessels are cut to show the musele .
In subject 28 this muscle was connected with the origin of the coraco-brachialis , and passed with it to the tip of the coracoid .
A similar slip of muiscle , passing from the 5th , 6th , and 7th ribs to the muscles connected with the coracoid process , was observed by Theile ( Jourdan 's Translation , p. 204 ) .
In all the specimens the unvarying origini of this curious slip , and its relation to the one which joins with the insertion of the pectoralis major , and to the chondroepitrochlear muscle of the lower animals , show it to be the result of an upward displacement of the same typical structure , ranging from the insertion of the pectoralis major to that of the pectoralis minor .
8 .
The increased number of the heads of the biceps in the two subjects in this column were of the more usual kind described by Meckel and others , arising from the fibres of the brachialis anticus and from the greater tuberosity of the humerus .
9 .
In subjects 14 and 17 the 6rachialis anticus presented a continuiity of a large portion of its outer fibres of origin into those of the supinator longus , which is not uncommon , althoughi not , as far as the author is aware , previously noted in the humani subject .
It is a very common arrangement in the Apes and Monkeys , assisting them very materially in climnbing and twisting the body while hanging by the anterior extremities .
In subject 30 there was a brachio-fascialis or quasi-third head of the biceps , simriilar to that described in former papers .
On the opposite arm was found a curious fusiform muscle , springing high up from the brachialis anticus , and connected below with the pronator radii teres towards its insertion .
10 .
The flexor sublimis digitorum in subjects 5 and 13 gave off on the outer side of its coronoid origin a separate slender tendon , which became the sole origin of a first lumbricalis muscle .
In both , another first lumbricalis was given off from the usual place on the indicial tendon of the , pe)forans .
In No. 13 also a curious division of the abnormal lumbricahls occurred , into two parts , 'of which the innermost was implanted upon the tendon of the pe^foratus , near its division within the sheath of the index finger ; while the outermost joilned the normal lumbricalis near its usual place of insertion .
Higher up in the arm another muscular slip connected the redundant tendon from the su6limis with the indicial tendon of the profundus .
In subject 9 was a muscular coninexion of the flexor sublimis with the origin of the flexor longus pollicis , like that described in the last paper .
1 1 .
The variations of the flexor _profundus digitorum in three subjects consisted merely in a not uncommon distinct and superficial muscular origin from the coronoid process along with the fibres of the sublimis , such as is frequently met with in the lower animals .
In subject 8 was found a tendon connecting the indicial part of the flexor mpofundus with the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis .
In subject 20 this arrangement was reversed , the tendon going from the flexor pollicis above to the flexor profundus below .
This variety is found in the next column .
12 .
In addition to the variety just mentionied the flexor _pollicis longus gives , in subject 2 , a tendon to the first tumbricalis on both sides .
13 .
The lumbricatles have been found irregular in three other subjects besides those just mentioned , in which the first was seen to arise from the flexor sublimis and flexor lonagus pollicis .
In subject 5 the third lumbricalis on the right arm was bifurcated , one half going to the ulnar side of the middle finger and the other to the radial side of the ring finger .
Both sides of the long finger were thus provided with this muscle , an arrangement which was repeated in both the hands of the 22nd subject .
On the right arm of the 32nd subject the whole of the third lumbricalis ( see fig. 3 c ) was inserted into the inner side of the long finger , while the fourth was entirely absent .
This was also the case with the left arm of subject 5 .
14 .
The name at the head of this column-flexor carpi radialis brevis -I have applied to a muscle which is given in fig. 3 a , drawn from subject 32 .
This subject was , from the number and character of its varieties , the most remarkable of the whole .
In this case the muscle arises from the middle third of the front surface of the radius , between the flexor tongus pollicis above ( d ) and the pronator quadratus ( e ) below .
Passing under the annular ligament as a distinict rounded tendon , close to the carpal bones , inside of and parallel with the sheath of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis ( f ) , it is inserted partly into the os magnum , but chiefly into the base of the middle metacarpal bone , where it gave attachment to some fibres of the fexor brevis pollicis muiscle .
It is evidently a flexor of the third metacarpal bone , corresponding to the flexor carpi radialis of the second metacarpal .
During the last session a precisely similar muscle was described by Dr. Nortoni , of St. Mary 's Hospital , and exhibited by him at a meeting of the Zoological Society .
The subject of figure 3 is further remarkable for a distinct slip of tendon from the flexor carpi utnaris ( y ) to the base of the fourth metacarpal bone ( seen at b ) .
In this arm we have , therefore , a flexor for each of tne metacarpal bones , reckoning the opponens as one .
But further than this , the outer fibres of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis in the same arm ( see fig. 6 c ) are separated from the rest by a cellular interval , and arise partly from the fascia covering the radial extensors and supinator longus .
They are connected with a distinct tendon , which is implanted into the front part of the outer border of the base of the first metacarpal bone .
Traction upon this tendon showed that its action was rather of the nature of flexion with abduction than of extension .
This peculiarity of origin is noticed by Henle ( Muskellehre ) .
The arm from which figs. 3 and 6 were taken is now in the custody of the Curator of the Hunterian Museum .
In fig. 3 is seen also the abnormal insertion of the third lumbricalis ( c ) , the absence of the fourth , and at h the first palmar interosseus of the thumb , described by Henle .
In fig. 6 the additional special extensors of the third and fourth fingers are given .
In subjects 13 and 31 were found muscles which are entirely homologous with the flexor carpi radialis brevis just described .
They had exactly similar origins , were of the same shape and with like tendons , but were iniserted into the inner side of the base of the second instead of the third metacarpal bones , one of them passing , with the tendon of the fexor carpi radialis , through the groove in the trapezium and annular ligament , but the other goinrg outside of that sheath .
In subject 6 was found a large fusiform muscle , having its origin from the radius outside of that of the flexor longus pollicis , and reaching as high up as the oblique line below the flexor sublimis .
Ending in a distinct , strong , and rounded tendon , it was implanted into that deeper portion of the annular ligament which separates the groove for the flexor carpi r adialis tendon , and with this into the trapezoid , magnum , and base of the middle metacarpal bones .
A muscle precisely similar to this was described by the author in his last paper ( subject 1 ) .
Its resemblance in appearance , position , connexions , and influence upon the carpus , have induced him to class it with the foregoing flexor carpi radialis brevis as a variation of the same type of muscle , the flexor of the middle metacarpal bone .
15 .
The variations of the radial extensors found in this column are of two kinids , which appear to be closely allied .
The first kind mentioned are the interchanging muscles frequently seen and recorded by anatomists .
These , arising with one of the twin muscles , pass as distinct tendons over to the other , and become inserted with it .
Of these , three were found .
In the absence of a name the author has ventured to distinguish this form of muscle by that of the extensor carpi radialis intermedius .
Of the other kind is found only one example .
It is the extensor carpi radialis accessorius first recorded , named and described by the author in his former papers* .
It has been chosen as the subject of fig. 4 , taken from the right arm of subject No. 23 , because of its coexistence with the intermediate form of the radial extensors , which was not the case in any of the specimenis before found .
It arises from the condyloid ridge of the humerus , below the extensor carpi radialis longior ( f ) , lies between that muscle and the extensor intermedius ( c ) , which separates it from the extensor carpi radialis brevior ( d ) .
It has a distinct tendon of considerable size , which , crossing that of the longior , goes through the sheath of the extensors of the metacarpus and first phalanx of the thumb , and divides into two slips , one to be implanited into the base of the first metacarpal , and the other to give part origin to a double abductor jpollicis ( b ) .
The tendon of the intermedius ( c ) can be seen to be implanted upon the second metacarpal with that of the longior .
In the left arm of the same suibject only the intermediate form was found .
The close relation of these two forms is well seen in the figure .
The accessorius has an origin somewhat similar to the intermedius , while its insertion and connexion with the short abductor is precisely similar to that often found in the tendon of extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis , with which the radial extensors have usually so close a connexion at its origin , as before alluded to in describing the redundancy of that muscle in subject 32 ( fig. 6 c ) .
If we suppose the germ of an extensor intermedius to become blended with that of the upper and outer portion of a double extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis , the result would be the extensor accessorius here described * .
16 .
The extensor ca ?
pi ulnaris in two subjects sent , in both arms , tendinous slips to the little finger , which were blended with the common extensor aponeurosis ( fig. 5 a ) .
This variety is mentioned by Meckel .
Henle conisiders it as homologous with that of the peroneus quinti in the foot .
In both subjects the arrangement of the slip was strikingly similar to that of the last-named abnormality , but in neither of them was the peroneus quinti found in the foot .
In the same arms the extensor minimi digiti ( b ) was found provided with two tendons , both inserted , with a slip from the common extensor , into the dorsal aponeurosis of the fifth digit ( c ) .
17 .
In three other subjects , besides the two last mentioned , the extensor miniani digiti was found to have a double tendon .
In one the muscle also was doubled .
In subjects 5 and 32 the outermost of the tendons of this double muscle was inserted into the extensor aponeurosis of the ringfinger , thus forming a special extensor of this digit ( fig. 6 a ) , joining , before reaching it , with a slip from the common extensor , which directly afterwards again left it , carrying some of its fibres to join the little finger .
This arrangement was described by the author in his first paper , and has been also noticed by Vesalius , Meckel , and Hallett in Man , and by Church in the Apes .
18 .
In this column are found two specimens of that differentiationof the extensor indicis m'nuscle which results in a proper extensor of the middlefinger .
In fig. 6 ( taken from the extensor aspect of the same arm as fig. 3 , subject 32 ) is seen a complete double set of extensor tendons for each of the five digits , in addition to the interesting varieties found on the flexor side ( including a whole set of flexors for the fivemetacarpal bones ) , and in other parts of the body .
It was not found in the left arm .
In subject 13 , the extensor medii digiti was found in both arms , and , what is significant , it was associated in both with the fexor ca'pi 'adialis brevis before described , showing a special tendency to development of the muscles of the middle digit .
A similar tendency is shown in subject 15 , by a duplication of the tendon of the indicator , both tendons in tnis case being inserted inlto the first digit .
19 .
Of the extensor brevis digitorutm manus , described in the author 's last papers , fewer examples than usual have been found , none of them very complete .
In subject.32 a single slip to the middle finger is founid associated with theproper extensor and aflexor of the metacarpal bone of that digit ; a combination which was present also in the rernarkable subject ( 1 ) described in the last paper , and , with the exceptionl of the proper extensor , in one other subject last session .
It may be taken as a further proof of the specializing ten-cdency in the middle finger in this subject .
20 .
Of the interossei , five specimens of differeltiation are nioted , chiefly belonging to the first , or abductor inclicis .
Two specimens of a palmar interosseus of the thumb are found in Nos. 5 and 32 , both presenting numerous other variations .
21 .
Among the miscellaneous muscles of the armi the most noteworthy specimen is that of a sternoclavicuzlar muscle , similar to that described by Haller , and more recently by Mr. Berkeley Hill .
This muscle ( given in fig. 7 c , from subject 27 ) arises by a thin tendon from the front of the manubrium sterni , just below the origini of the sterno-mastoid .
Spreading as a muscular layer upwards and outwards under the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major ( b 6 ' , cut and turned up in the figure ) , it is inserted into the lower border of the clavicle , just in front of the subelavius muscle , from which it is separated by the costo-coracoid miembrane ( a ) , extending nearly as far outwards as the origin of the dleitoid .
This muscle has been found in Birds , Bats , and Moles .
The author has also found it remarkably well-developed in the Guineapig and some others of the Rodentia .
HIe believes it to be closely allied to the upward extension of the pectoralis minor , before alluded to , and to result from a differentiation of such an upward extension .
In the subject of the sketch it was associated with a cleido-occipital ( a ) , and with an increase in the number of tendons to the little fing , er .
In subject 26 was a curious muscular slip extending behinid the axillarv vessels and nerves , from the insertion of the subscapular muscle to the fascia covering the long head of the triceps , and derived from the tendoln of the latissimus dorsi .
Apparently this is an imperfect form of development of a short coraco-brachialis muscle , such as that described in a former paper .
In subject 13 was a high fascial origin of the abductor minimi diyiti , from the lower third of the forearm , like that described and figured in the author 's first series .
This has been observed by Gulnther ( Chirurgische Muskellehre , Taf .
xx .
Fig. V. 18 ) .
A double abductor pollicis brevis was found in three cases , besides that in which it was connected with a slip from the extensor carpi r adialis accessorius ( given in fig. 4 ) .
In subject 23 , and also in 32 , was a double extensor ossis metacarpipollicis , the tendon of one being inserted entirely into the annular ligament and origin of the abductor pollicis .
The rest of this column scarcely lneeds further description .
The six remaining columns are occupied by abnormalities of the muscles of the leg , of which there are thirty-nine examples .
22 .
Peroneus tertius.-Two out of five anomalies in this column result from the total absence of this characteristically humani muscle , giving a very ape-like appearance to the foot .
In No. 7 it was absent on the right side only ( see fig. 8 ) , in No. 16 on both sides .
In subjects 11 and 32 a distinct tendinous slip from it was implanted into the base of the fourth metatarsal .
In another , the tendonl was doubled , though both were inserted into the fifth metatarsal , spreading towards the fourth .
23 .
Peroneus quinti .
In three out of five specimens foutnd , this tendinous slip from the peroneus brevis to the extensor aponeurosis of the little toe was perfect , as described and figured in the last paper .
In the remaining two , the tendinous slip from the brevis , instead of reaching the toe , became implanted upon the upper border of its metatarsal bone , near the front end ( fig. 8 a ) .
In both cases this slip supplied the place of the peroneus tertius , which was totally wanting , except in the left foot of subject 7 , in which both the slip and the muscle was present , though small .
In the subject of the figure the peroneus brevis tendorn gives also a slip of origin to a bundle of muscular fibres which joiln the abductor minimi digiti as a separate muscle ( b ) on the outer side .
This is a somewhat similar arrangement to that of a specimen given in the author 's first series , in which the peronetus quinti was provided with a separate muscular belly on the outer border of the foot .
tOL .
X , 24 .
The extensor longus primi internodii hiallucis , described in the author 's first paper , was found in no less than ten out of the thirty-four subjects , in all , except one , in both legs .
In seven the muscles and tendons were fully developed and distinct from the fibres of the extensor proprius hallucis , generally arising above , but sometimes below this muscle .
In the remaining three ( Nos. 11 , 19 , and 21 ) the abnormal muscle was represented by a tendon given from the extensor proprius near the ankle .
In subject 21 this tendon was also , on the right side , contributed to by one from the extensor longus digitorunm .
In all the tendon was attached to the base of the first phalanx of the great toe , close to the joint , either distinct from or in union with that from the extensor brevis di.gitorum pedis .
25 .
Flexor longus accessorius.-The high origin of this muscle , by an additional head from the lower third of the fibula , or from the fascia covering the flexor longus hallucis , has been observed in three cases .
In all it was provided with a distinct tendon , which joinied separately in the union of the long flexor tendlons in the middle of the sole .
In subject 26 the flexor accessorius was made up of four distinct heads .
1 .
The long head as above described ; 2 , another tapering fleshy belly from the upper part of the os calcis and insertion of the plantaris tendon , in front of the tendo Achillis , and ending in a distinct tendon ; 3 , the usual " massa carnea " from the hollow surface of the os calcis ; and 4 , the outer tendinous slip from the lonig plantar ligament .
These all uniting , joined with a large slip from the tenidonr of the flexor longus pollicis , to form a distinct deep or third set of flexor tendons passing to the four outer toes .
Each of these joiined that of the _pe forans in the inside of the sheath , about the first joint .
26 .
Abductor ossis metatarsi quinti.-This muscle , as described and fig , ured by the author in former papers , was found only in sev-en subjects this session , in all in both feet .
This is much less than the proportion found last session .
In two out of the five females dissected , they were found well developed , of a fusiform shape , arising from the outer tubercle of the os calcis , and inserted by a distiniet rounded tendon into the base of the fifth metacarpal bone .
In five males only , out of the twentynine dissected , were they found as muscles distinct from the fibres of the a6ductor minimi digiti .
In the previous session the proportion of female subjects to males was very much greater than in the last .
The specimens of this muscle found were also much more numerous , so much so as to be estimated by the author at nearly half the number of subjects .
Whether this remarkable difference depends upon the sex , or is accidental , must be decided by future observations .
27 .
In the miscellaneous column we have nine single speciinens , as compared with eleveni or twelve in the arms , and six or seven in the head and neck .
In a female ( 31 ) was an areolar separation of the front fibres of the gluteus minimus forming a scansorius muscle , like that described in a former paper .
In subject 30 the peforatus tendon of the little toe was derived from the fexor accessorius , as seen also last session .
In subject 7 , the same tendon is derived from the fifth tendon of the pe ?
:forans , as found in the Apes and Monkeys .
The two last appear to be , respectively , the imperfect or transitional , and the complete stages of this significant change .
Two varieties , which I have not found ' recorded by any anatomical writer , were noticed in subjects 12 and 26 .
In the former the abductor hallucis , and in the latter the flexor brevis hallucis sent a considerable muscular slip to the base of the first phalanx of the second toe .
In the former the slip passed deeper than the transversuspedis muscle , and in the latter superficial to it .
In subject 25 the third lu ?
nbricalis took origin from the tendoni of the pe ?
foratus instead of the pe ?
forans , presenting an analogue to the origin of the first lumbricalis in the hand from a tenidon of the flexor sztblimis pe ?
foratus in subjects .
S ) and 13 .
In subject 2 the fourthl plantar interosseuts arose f om na slip of the tendoll of the 2er oneus lotgucs , as in the instance descr ibed and figuired in the author 's last paper .
In subject 16 was a cuir'ious double origin of the tdducetor 7ongusfenmoris , the abnormal hea(l arising with the fibres of the pectinels .
In reference to the comnlbina(tionls of the above muscular variations an inspection of the Table will show the following points:-First , that only in two subjects out of the thirty-fouir examined were nto muscular abniormalities found ; i. e. nio deviations from the ordinalry type sufficiently striking to be recorded .
It is , indeed , hiighly probable that variabilities of every kinid arc limited only by the possibilities of the permutations and combinations of the Wholc of the structuires of the humnan bodvr .
It will be observed also that the grent majority of the abnormalities welC s. ?
n ?
etricwa , or fouInd on both sides .
, Secondclq , that of the total number of muscular variations , 132 ( not reckoning both sides when alike ) , 71 , or more than one half , are found in the arms .
If we reckon with these those muscles which , thontgli founlid in the nieck , act ehiefly upon the clavicle , a boon of the upper extremity , viz. the cleido-occipitael and the levatorv clavictlae , Xwe shall have 12 more to add to the 71 , increasing the proportioni of the arm muscles , and diminishing those proper to the head and neck to 10 .
The number of abniormalities in the legs amount to 39 , or rather more than half the number of those in the arms ; while in the abdomen and lower part of the trunk not onIe is recorded , though , of course , some may have escaped observation .
Thicrdly .
The greatest number of abnormalities combined in the same individual is 14 ( in subject 32 ) , a very muscular male , in whom the proportions are 10 in the muscles of the arms ( including the cleido-occi ital ) 3 in those of the legs , and 1 only in the hcad and neck .
The similarity betweeni this subject and No. 1 of the last year 's paper is remarkable .
In the latter the number of departures from the ordinary type was 16 , of x which all except 7 were found in the arms ( including the levator claviculce ) , 5 in the legs , and 2 in the bead and neck .
With the exception of the levator claviculce , costo-fascialis , and supra-costalis , found in the last-mentioned subject , but not in No. 32 , the correspondence ( especially in the arms ) between the different linwes of abnormal departure also is sufficiently close to become significanit , as the reader will have gathered in going through the preceding , pages .
In subject 4 of the Table , which presented the only specimen of the levator claviculce founid this session , oiily one other abnormality was found , viz. the abductor of the fifth mnetatarsal bone .
This was also founid associated with it in last year 's subject , which presents otherwise a marked colntrast in the niuimber of its abnormalities .
In Nos. a and 7 , the one a male and the other a female , there are nine variations respectively , of which , in No. 5 , there is but one which is not in the arm ; and in No. 7 , four in the legs and three in the arms .
In No. 2 are eight abniormalities , of which six are in the arms and the rest in the legs .
In No. 26 are found seven , of which three are in muscles belonging to the upper extremity , and four in the legs .
In No. 13 are six , all in the arms .
In thirteen subjects none were found in the legs ; and in four they were found in the legs only , to the extent , in one case , of four examples ; and in all four subjects highly characteristic .
None were found in the head , neck , or trunk only* .
The extent of correspondence in combination of varieties in the subjects arranged in theTable(taken in the horizontal lines ) cannotbesaid to be striking .
The variations seem to crop out here and there withouit much reference to each other .
This may , however , be partly owing to the comparatively small number reviewed , and we should scarcely be safe indrawing deductions from it before a much greater number of subjects are treated in a similar way .
The correspondence seems to be the greatest in the arm and hand , which here also assume a prominence over the rest of the frame .
This , however , may be due to the ereater number of instances found in the upper extremity .
The figures which are placed at the end of each line in the Table refer to the number of varieties recorded in each entire subject .
Those at the bottom of each column refer to the number of each variety of niuscular abnorrnality .
EXPLANATION Of the Abbreviations and References in the Table .
R. Indicates the right side of the body on which the abnormality was found .
L. Indicates the left side of the body on which the abnormality was found .
'B .
Inldicates both sides of the body oI which the abnormality was found .
a. Detached muscular slip from 6th cartilage , with separate insertion into humlerus .
Also in No. 5 .
b. Muscular slip from latissim^-us dorsi to insertion of pectoralis mno , jor .
Also in Nos. 5 and 32 .
c. Tendon from flexor longus pollicis , giving origin to first lumbricalis .
d. Single muscle with two tendons , both inserted inlto little finger .
Also in Nos. 9 , 25 , and 27 .
e. 14almnaris longus , with belly of muscle below instead of above .
f. Fourth plantar interossetes arising from tendon of peroneus longus .
fq .
Extensor carpi radialis internmcdi4us arising ( muscular ) with lonigior , and inlser ted tendinous with brevior , or vice ver sd .
Also in No. a , and the right side of No. 21 .
A. Pectoralis minor , giving tendinous slip to greater tuberosity of humerus ; joilling with the tendon of sulpraspinatus and capsular ligament .
i. ( Riglit side ) third izmbricalis bifurcated to opposed sides of middle and ring-flngcr .
( Left side ) no lumbricalis to little finger .
Also seen in No. 22 .
j. Extensor minimii digiti gave a teindoni to the ring-finger on both sides .
Also in No. 32 .
k &gt; .
A first palnar interosseous ( of ilenlo ) , under flexor brevis to pollex .
1 .
Flexor carpi radialis brevis , vel profundus , as a , ftisiform muscle , arising from the oblique line of radius , and inserted into the annular ligament .
us .
DouLble anterior belly of digastric , decussating across the median line .
ni .
Muscular slip from complexus to r-ectus capitis posticues olqjor .
o. Detached miiuscular slip from epitrochlea to olecranoil over ulnar nerve .
Ip .
Tendinous slip from peroneus brevis to uipper border of fifth metatarsal .
q. Flexor longus accessorius nuscularl head arose from deep fascia covering flexor longus digiti .
r. Perforatus tendon of fifth toe arose from tendon of perforans .
s. Double stylo-pkharyngeus , one behind the other .
t. Detached slip of pectoralis inajor , arising from abdominal tendon at epigastriuln , and inserted separately into tendon at humerus .
Also in Nos. 9 and 32 .
2c .
Tendinous slip prolonged from extensor caspi ulnaris to extensor tendon of little finger .
Also seen in No. 27 .
V. Detached slip from latissimus dorsi a.t ninth rib , to coracoid process at insertion of pectoralis minor ( chsondro-coracoid ) .
wo .
Extensor longus primi ineernodii hallucis , arising from fibula and interosseous ligament above extensor proprius hallucis .
Also in Nos. 18 , 24 , 25 , 26 , and 30..x .
Tendinous slip of insertion of peroneus tertius to base of fourth metatarsal , as well as its usual insertion into the fifth .
Also in No. 32 .
y. Exteensor longus_prini internodii hallucis tenidon given off from that of extenlsor _proprius hallucis .
Also in Nos. 19 and 21 .
z. Abductor hallucis sent a large slip to base of first phalanx of second toe .
a ' .
Muscular slip from coronoid process to flexor profundus digitorum .
Also in the two next notices in the same column .
b ' .
A distinct and separate extensor of the middle digit : in the next notice in the same column the indicator had two tenidolns , both inserted into the forefinger , High origini of abductor minimi digiti from fascita of forearm .
d7 ' .
Muscular slip connecting the brachialis aenficzts with the.supineior lo ?
guse .
Also in the next notice in the same columni .
c ' .
Suvperficial slip connecting the two portions of flexor brevis Ipoliicis .
' .
Origin of stylo-glosstus fromii the angle of the lower jaw .
g ' .
Subcutaneous slip from sternal fascia to cervical fascia .
h ' .
Musculo-tendinous slip from flexor pollicis 1i2oGus to inclicial portion of profundu .
i ' .
Flexor car:pi radialis accessorius , a separate muscle connected with tho origin of longior , to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal of 2ollex , giving a slip to abductor pollicis .
k ' .
Slip of pectoralis minor inserted into costo-coracoid membrane and clavicle .
1 ' .
Double muscle , the lower inserted into annular ligament and origin of abductor pollicis &amp; in ' .
Flexor lonzgus halluscis exchanged slips with flexor longus dligitorze7n .
n ' .
Third lusnbricelis arose from ftlxor perforatus instead of p)erforans .
o ' .
Flexor brevis hallucis sent a largo slip to base of first pha.lanx of second toe .
p ' .
MIIscular slip from insertion of subscapularis to the n.leck of the humerius and tendon of ltcdissimus , an imperfect coraco-bi rehiclis brevis .
q ' .
A distinct muscle from front ; of maniubrium to lower border of clavicle , under -fibres of p)ectoralis mqcaor ( Sterno-claviculai- ) .
Subelavius also present .
r ' .
Distinct muscle arising from first rib with sterno-thyroid , and insert ; ed into cervical fascia under sterno-cleido-mastoid ( costo-fcasci(elis cervicalis ) .
s ' .
Muscular slip from latissimvus dorsi to join coraco-brachialis just below coracoid process , across the vessels of the axilla .
t ' .
On the left side a miiuscular slip from brachiialis anticus to the fascia of the forearm ; on the right side ai .
fusiform muscle forming a high origin of thepronator rad .
teres , it ' .
Perforatus tendon of little toe from flexor accessorius .
e ' .
Muscular slip from sp lenius colli to serratus m ; 9agnus .
w ' .
Thircl lumbricalis to inner side of middle finger .
Fourth absent altogether .
' .
First dorsal interosseus double .
Also in 27 .
y ' .
Tendinous slip from ftexor carpi utnaris to base of fourth , as well as the fifth metacarpal x ' .
Separationof anterior fibres of gluteus minimzes , forming distinct muscle .

