Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
systematic agreement between the wave-lengths of the lines found and those of any probable impurity .
It would appear , therefore , that neon , like argon , krypton and xenon , is capable of giving two different spectra according to the manner in which it is electrically excited .
I should like to express my sincere thanks to Sir James Dewar for the kind advice he has given me .
Address of the President , Sir Archibald , K.C.B. , at the Anniversary Meeting on December 1 , 1913 .
On these annual occasions it is usual to begin the retrospect of the year by discharging the melancholy duty of taking note of the losses which death has inflicted on our Society since the last Anniversary .
On the present occasion we are fortunate in not having to deplore the passing away of any of the distinguished men who form the remarkable band of our Foreign Members .
But on the other hand , the blanks which have been made in our Home List are exceptionally heavy , for no fewer than twenty of our Fellows have died , and among these some whose places it will for many years be hard to fill .
Especially numerous and serious have been the losses among those who represent the various departments of the Physical Sciences .
In George Howard Darwin we mourn the departure of one of the most brilliant and most estimable of our colleagues , who by the originality and distinction of his researches amply sustained the scientific renown of our publications and enhanced the prestige of the Society .
He was elected a Fellow in 1879 , served repeatedly on the Council , and was Vice-President during the last year of his presence there .
He was awarded a Royal Medal in 1884 , and only two years ago received as the crowning mark of our appreciation of his achievements in science the award of the Copley Medal .
There was a widespread hope among the Fellows that he would this year be elected to the Presidential Chair of the Royal Society .
But , while still with the promise of further years of fruitful work before him , he was attacked by a fatal disease which carried him off on December 7 last in the 68th year of his age .
With admiration and pride we recall the keen insight and the laborious but brilliant calculations which culminated in the production of George Darwin 's memorable essays on the history of our planet and its VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; A. 2 N 452 Anniversary Address by Sir A. satellite .
We remember the long years during which he devoted his mind to the study of the Tides , thereby elucidating that complicated subject , and at the same time rendering valuable service to the art of navigation .
We think , too , of the many hours which , first and last , he cheerfully gave up to the furtherance of scientific progress by attendance on committees , boards , and congresses , not in this country only but also abroad , as representative of the Royal Society in international organisations .
On this Anniversary , however , our thoughts turn more tenderly to the man himself as he lived and moved among us .
Long shall we cherish the remembrance of the example of his gentle and studious nature , his unfailing courtesy and kindly cheerfulness , his ardour in the cause of scientific research , his large-minded tolerance towards those who differed from him , and that helpful sympathy , inherited from his illustrious father , which led him to take interest in each fresh advance of knowledge in every department of Nature , even in those furthest removed from his own special studies .
The late Earl of Crawford was a characteristic example of a type of men whereof the Royal Society , from the very commencement of its history , has continued to include instances\#151 ; men of distinction in public affairs , who are keenly interested in scientific enquiries , who promote their progress , and who occasionally themselves contribute original observations of their own on subjects which they have personally studied .
As the premier Earl of Scotland , with large estates to administer and taking an active part in public life , Lord Crawford yet found time for the cultivation of research .
In his youth he took to astronomy , and , with his father , built and equipped an observatory on his property in Aberdeenshire .
Soon after coming of age he went to Spain , for the purpose of observing the solar eclipse of 1870 , and four years later took a journey to Mauritius to observe the transit of Venus .
These and other proofs of his scientific predilections contributed to his being elected into the Royal Society in 1878 , when he was 31 years of age , and he had the unusual distinction of being chosen to serve on the Council in the same year .
A further mark of appreciation was shown to him by his fellow-astronomers , who elected him President of the Astronomical Society .
In later years he turned to the biological side of science , and as a yachtsman , sailing over the seas of the New as well as of the Old World , he was able to add a number of new species to the known bird-fauna of the globe .
Lord Crawford was likewise a lover of literature and the possessor of a noble library .
He was thus well qualified to be a Trustee of the British Museum , an office to which he was elected in 1885 .
Up almost to the close of his life he was sedulous in his attendance at the meetings of the Trustees , showing always a keen Anniversary Address by Sir A. 453 interest in the organisation and administration of the two great national establishments at Bloomsbury and South Kensington . .
Major-General Henry Clerk , R.A. , who died at the great age of 92 , was the oldest surviving Fellow of the Royal Society , his election having taken place as far back as 1848 .
He was the author of papers on meteorological and other physical subjects , the earliest of which was printed in the * Philosophical Transactions ' for 1846 .
The ranks of the physicists and teachers of physics in this country have been deprived by death of the Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh\#151 ; James Gordon MacGregor .
Born in Nova Scotia in 1852 , he received his scientific training in this country and in Leipzig .
After having held several educational appointments in his native colony , he was chosen in 1901 to succeed Peter Guthrie Tait in the important Chair of Natural Philosophy in Edinburgh .
The value of his investigations in electrolytic conductivity and other properties of solutions , , in the resistance of metals , and in thermo-electricity , led to his election into the Royal Society in the year 1900 .
One of our most prominent losses this year has been the death of Dr. John Milne , the great pioneer of modern Seismology .
Born in 1850 and trained at the Royal School of Mines , he at the age of 25 accepted an academic appointment under the Japanese Government as geologist and mining engineer , and for some twenty years resided in Japan .
His attention was soon arrested by the abundant display of earthquake phenomena in that country , and he devoted himself with the greatest ardour tO ' their investigation .
He devised a delicate instrument whereby the^ complicated seismic movements could be accurately observed and recorded .
His enthusiasm in the study communicated itself to the Japanese .
With their co-operation he was enabled to establish a seismic survey of the country , embracing not far short of 1000 observing stations .
He founded the Seismological Society of Japan , and in the voluminous Transactions of this Society , mostly the work of his own indefatigable pen , he gathered together the observations and deductions which served to give seismology its due place among the exact sciences of the earth .
When he returned to this country in 1895 , in order to make here his permanent home , his first , care was to find some site where a seismological observatory could most effectively be placed , and he finally selected Shide , in the Isle of Wight , , which henceforth became famous as the centre of the great network of observing stations which , with the co-operation of the British Association for the Advancement of Science , he proceeded to institute not only in this country and our dependencies , but even over a large part of the rest of the 454 Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
globe .
The records transmitted to him from this world-wide organisation were discussed in annual reports to the British Association , and in course of years he had the gratification of seeing his example followed in other lands .
Japan , fostered by his enthusiasm , had led the way .
Various countries in Europe undertook the recording of earthquakes likewise , until eventually an International Seismic Association was formed for concerted observation and experiment in regard to seismological problems .
Had he lived and retained his health , it was the hope of his friends that Milne might be prevailed upon to accept the control of such an international organisation and bring into its operation the world-wide system of stations which he had established with so much skill and labour and had supervised with such signal success .
But his vigour had been for some time past perceptibly lessening .
After a brief illness he died on July 30 last , at the age of no more than 62 .
His career presents a memorable example of what can be accomplished in the cause of science by clear-sighted intelligence and indomitable application .
His admirable organisation of observing stations , though now bereft of his guidance , must not be allowed to lapse or suffer any serious interruption .
Provision has meanwhile been made for continuing the work as he left it .
The Eoyal Society and the British Association for the Advancement of Science have each formed a committee which will co-operate in considering what further steps should be taken .
It would be little to the credit of the scientific reputation or public spirit of this country if means could not be found to place Milne 's organisation in a position of permanent security and usefulness .
It is an institution actually at work , it is capable of expansion and improvement , and it is eminently worthy to be the basis or nucleus of an imperial , if not international , enterprise , prosecuting work advantageous to the whole world .
The representation of Chemistry on the list of Fellows of the Society has been diminished during the past year by the death of Sir Walter Noel Hartley , who was for so many years one of the leaders of science in Dublin , where he held the Chemical Professorship at the Eoyal College of Science .
His spectroscopic researches were especially notable and received well-deserved recognition .
He was elected into the Eoyal Society in 1884 .
He died on September 11 last , in his 68th year .
Dr. Hugh Marshall early attracted attention by his researches in chemistry , mineralogy , and crystallography .
While still a young man , he was in 1904 elected into the Eoyal Society , and four years later he received the appointment of Professor of Chemistry in University College , Dundee .
But his brilliant promise was cut short by his death on September 6 last , at the early age of 45 .
Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
455 By the sudden death of Sir William White , on February 27 , in the 68th year of his age , we have lost one of our foremost Fellows in engineering science .
His long experience at the Admiralty , culminating in his appointment to be Director of Naval Construction , gave him a position of commanding authority in all that appertained to the science of naval architecture , to which he contributed valuable memoirs and treatises .
But he had many interests outside his own profession .
Possessing a remarkable capacity for affairs and a faculty of clear exposition of his views , he came to be chosen a member of innumerable committees , boards , and other deliberative bodies , wherein his long experience and ripe judgment were much appreciated .
In his later years he was more especially interested in the progress of education in applied science .
He was one of the most active members of the governing body by which the Imperial College of Science and Technology was organised .
He likewise served on the Committee to which the consideration of the constitution of the new Science Museum was referred by the Government .
He became a Fellow of our Society in 1888 , and six years thereafter he served for a year on the Council .
Another loss to the engineering section of the Boyal Society has been inflicted by the recent death of Sir William Preece , who will long be remembered for his valuable services in the development of the practical applications of electricity .
As head of the Telegraphic Department of the Post Office for more than twenty years he had ample opportunity of applying his scientific experience to the expansion of this important branch of the public service .
For example , he took a keen interest in the applications of the telephone from the time when he introduced Mr. Graham BelTs invention into this country .
He took an active share in the early experiments which led to the establishment of telephonic communication with the continent of Europe .
He was in this country a pioneer in the practical adoption of wireless telegraphy .
He was born in 1834 .
His election into the Eoyal Society took place in 1881 , and six years thereafter he served for two years on the Council .
Mr. George Matthey , who died on February 14 at the advanced age of 88 , represented the aims of metallurgy in our list of Fellows .
His extensive researches on platinum led to his being consulted many years ago by the French Government regarding the material to be employed for the construction of the standard metre and this standard was ultimately manufactured of iridio-platinum by his firm under his own supervision .
He became a Fellow of the Society in 1879 .
Only last week another gap was made among the physicists of the Boyal Society by the death of Sir Bobert Ball , in the 74th year of his age .
Distinguished as a mathematician , experimentalist , and physicist , he began 456- Anniversary Address by Sir A. by making important discoveries of nebulae with the great Eosse telescope .
Thereafter his remarkable paper " On the Theory of Screws " was published in the ' Transactions of the Eoyal Irish Academy ' in 1872 .
He was elected into this Society in the following year .
From 1874 onwards he specially devoted his attention to astronomy , becoming Professor of that science at the University of Dublin and Astronomer Eoyal for Ireland .
In 1892 he was appointed Lowndean Professor of Astronomy and Director of the Observatory at Cambridge .
His contributions to astronomical science included many investigations to determine the distances of a large number of fixed stars from observations of their annual parallax .
When he undertook the part of an expositor of science to popular audiences he soon acquired a wide reputation both as a lecturer and a writer of readable and interesting books .
His astronomical volumes , which attained a wide circulation , were important means of disseminating an appreciation of the fascination of the science to Which he was devoted .
Sir Eobert Ball will be sincerely mourned by all who were privileged with his friendship , and by that still wider circle who knew him less intimately but came under the spell of his kindly and humorous talk and the sparkle of his genuine wit .
On the Biological side of science our losses this year , though less numerous than those on the physical side , are notably serious on account of the eminence of the Fellows who have passed away .
Foremost among them we have to record that within the last few weeks Alfred Eussel Wallace has gone to his rest , ripe in years and full of honours , amidst the unstinted appreciation not only of his own countrymen , but of every civilised people .
A true naturalist , in the old and fullest sense of the term , every living thing was interesting to him not only in itself , but more especially in its relations to other organisms and to the distribution of life over the globe .
At the early age of 25 he began his scientific career as an explorer and collector in tropical regions , first in South America and afterwards in the Malay Peninsula .
For the long period of sixty-five years , almost up to the close , he has continued with unfailing vigour to prosecute the studies to which he dedicated his life , continually publishing fresh contributions to natural history and to the consideration of social problems .
His 'Travels on the Amazon and Eio Negro , ' ' Malay Archipelago , ' ' Geographical Distribution of Animals , ' and ' Island Life ' have become classics in zoological literature .
In his writings there is everywhere proof of the remarkable range of his knowledge , the closeness and accuracy of his faculty of observation , and the breadth of view wherewith he co-ordinated his facts and drew from them wide and suggestive generalisations .
As is well known , it was in the Malay Archipelago , amidst the marvellous variety and exuberance of tropical Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
457 life that , with the divination of true genius , he evolved the same theory of the origin of species on which Charles Darwin had already been at work for some sixteen years .
Some of us well remember the sensational meeting of the Linnean Society in the summer of 1858 when papers from the two naturalists , who had independently arrived at similar conclusions , were communicated by Sir Joseph Hooker and Sir Charles Lyell .
No incident in the history of modern science is more worthy to be recalled than the chivalry with which the work of the young and little known explorer , pondering over the problems of evolution amid the solitudes of a tropical forest , was received and placed at once side by side with that of the brilliant naturalist whose fame had already spread over the world , and at the same time the generous solicitude on Darwin 's part that full justice should be done to his younger competitor .
Their names will live for all time as those of the great Twin Brethren to whom science owes the first intelligible exposition and elucidation of the problem of the origin of species .
Wallace was connected with the Royal Society by a number of links , each of which marks the Society 's recognition of the importance of his contributions to natural knowledge .
As far back as the year 1868 he received one of our Royal Medals .
In 1890 he was appropriately selected as the first recipient of the Medal which had recently been instituted in honour of Charles Darwin .
In 1893 he was elected with acclamation a Bellow of the Society , and in 1908 the highest honour which it is in our power to bestow , the Copley Medal , was conferred upon him .
Born in 1823 , he died on November 7 in the 91st year of his age .
The death of Adam Sedgwick has removed from our midst one of the most brilliant zoologists of his day .
We look back upon his notable career at Cambridge as an original investigator and stimulating teacher , where he remodelled the zoological school , making it a great centre of biological training and research , and filling it with ardent pupils , who caught his enthusiasm , and bore it with them into other seats of learning .
It seems only yesterday , although some six years have meanwhile slipped away , since with some hesitation he brought that Cambridge life to a close and accepted the Professorship of Zoology in the Imperial College of Science and Technology .
There a fresh career of fertile teaching and practical research in biology and embryology seemed to open before him .
Coming with a great reputation to fill the chair formerly made famous by Huxley , he at once threw himself with his wonted energy into the task of restoring the efficiency of his department , which had somewhat suffered from the prolonged want of a successor to the previous professor .
It was fondly believed that his biological school in London would soon equal , or even 458 Anniversary Address by Sir A. surpass , in success his school at Cambridge .
But after two or three years his health was seen to begin to give way .
He died on February 27 last at the age of 55 .
He became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1886 , and served twice for two years on the Council .
Lord Avebury belonged to a class which is becoming less numerously represented in the Royal Society than it used to be\#151 ; the class of the cultivated country gentleman possessed of leisure and means , and devoting these to the cultivation of scientific studies .
He was a man of singular versatility .
Inheriting an estate in the country , where he spent much of his time , he was antiquary , archaeologist , botanist , zoologist , geologist , also Member of Parliament , chairman of many various mercantile associations , councillor , if not president , of most of the chief scientific societies of this country , and all the while head of one of the great banking firms of London , and actively engaged in its concerns .
In the City he was looked up to with universal respect as one of the leading authorities on mercantile affairs .
Elsewhere he was known chiefly as a man of science , while thousands of readers throughout English-speaking countries were familiar with his contributions to popular literature .
In the midst of a life which flowed on with so ample a current , he found time to write some noteworthy treatises .
His volumes on * Prehistoric Times ' and * The Origin of Civilisation and the Primitive Condition of Man ' were of no small service in the infancy of the study of archaeology .
His contributions to entomology and to botany showed how much natural history might have benefited had he been able to devote his whole time and energy to original observation .
And apart from his own writings , Lord Avebury was able in many ways to advance the cause of science .
In his capacity of member of the Standing Committee of the Trustees of the British Museum , an office to which he was appointed as far back as 1878 , he was unremitting in his zeal for the interests of that great national institution .
His presence on the Councils of scientific societies was always helpful .
He became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1858 , when he was only 24 years of age , and he served altogether seven years on our Council , and was three times Vice-President .
Lord Avebury was a notable social force .
Eminently hospitable , he brought the cultivators of science into touch with men in other walks of life .
At High Elms , his country home in Kent , or at Kingsgate Castle , on the edge of ' the chalk cliffs , he loved to gather together men of culture in all branches of human activity , and from all parts of the globe .
Again , at his house in London , he kept up the now well-nigh obsolete custom of giving breakfasts , which were pleasant reunions and by no means the least efficient of the ways he followed to make men acquainted with each other .
He leaves Anniversary Address by Sir A. 459 behind him a social blank which will be felt not less than the absence of his wise counsel at the many boards and committees of which he was a member .
Mr. Philip Lutley Sclater , who died at the age of 84 , was a conspicuous example of a country gentleman who can take up a branch of science as the main occupation of his life and make himself one of its recognised leaders .
During his student years at Oxford he was induced to interest himself in ornithology , which eventually became his engrossing pursuit .
Able to travel extensively , both in the Old and the New World , he always kept his eye on the birds of the regions through which he passed , thus acquiring an extensive acquaintance with systematic ornithology .
This knowledge served him in good stead in his well-known discussion of the geographical distribution of animals and his remarkable classifica-of the zoological provinces into which the surface of the globe may be divided .
He will long be remembered for his lengthened and intimate association with the Zoological Society .
For upwards of forty years he continued to be annually elected its Secretary , devoting himself with unwearied diligence to the furtherance of its interests , of which he came to be regarded as the visible incarnation .
He was a Fellow of the Eoyal Society for more than half a century , having been elected in 1861 .
He served twice on the Council .
In Prof. Francis Gotch physiology has lost one of its brightest ornaments .
Alike as an original investigator of the physiology of the nervous system and as a luminous and stimulating expositor of the subject , he has conferred lustre on the Oxford physiological school .
He was elected into the Eoyal Society in 1892 , and served for two years on the Council .
He died on July 17 last , aged 60 .
Sir Jonathan Hutchinson , famous as one of the great surgeons of his day , eminent for his original contributions to medicine , untiring in his zeal for the promotion of the study of natural history , and conspicuously generous in his establishment and support of country museums to give that study an educational value , passed away last summer at the ripe age of 85 , amidst the sincere sorrow of all who came into intimate touch with him .
He was elected into the Eoyal Society in 1882 , in recognition of the importance of his papers on the natural and clinical history of disease in man and the lower animals .
It was with much regret that we heard that Edward Nettleship passed away on the 30th October last .
Pre-eminent as an ophthalmic surgeon he enriched his department of clinical medicine with many admirable papers descriptive of his observations .
When he retired from a large practice in London to the quiet of a country home he devoted his time and enthusiasm 460 Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
to the study of heredity and obtained results of great interest .
Elected into the Eoyal Society only last year , he took a part in the work of the Committee for the investigation of glassworkers ' cataract .
His retiring disposition was apt to conceal from those who only knew him casually the enthusiasm and originality with which he pursued the study of nature ; his gentle , lovable , and generous character could only be fully appreciated by those who knew him best .
In the Eeport presented by the Council the more important events in the history of the Society during the past year are recounted .
Among them I would here make special reference to the magnetic re-survey of this country .
It has been arranged that the operations of this survey will include the 200 stations of the original survey by Sir Arthur Eucker and Sir Edward Thorpe , together with forty additional stations along the line of the Yorkshire ridge .
Mr. G. W. Walker , to whom the work has been entrusted , informs me that he began in August last the preliminary task of gathering together the requisite instruments and apparatus .
The needful maps were supplied by the Ordnance Survey Department ; the Admiralty furnished chronometers ; the Astronomer Eoyal has been good enough to undertake to afford control observations from Greenwich , and Prof. He wall has kindly given the use of a large field adjoining the Cambridge Observatory to serve as a base station .
The apparatus belonging to the Eoyal Society , which had for some years been lent to the Falmouth Observatory , has now been placed at Mr. Walker 's disposal .
The first observations were started at Cambridge on November 10 , and these will be continued concurrently with the standardisation of the apparatus .
The Eastern Counties will forthwith be attacked during the coming winter , although that part of the year is least favourable for work of this nature .
It is believed that the re-survey will be completed within less than two years .
There is another paragraph in the Council 's Eeport to which I may here allude .
Five years ago at the request of the Home Office the Council appointed a Committee to investigate the physical and physiological problems presented by the disease known as Glassworkers ' Cataract .
In proposing this enquiry the Home Office had made no provision for the cost of the numerous experiments and examinations that obviously would be required , while the Eoyal Society has no funds at its disposal for meeting such expenditure .
As only a small sum has been contributed by the Treasury the work of the Committee has been seriously delayed .
Only one branch of the investigation has been practically completed\#151 ; the branch undertaken by Sir William Crookes\#151 ; and this could not have been accomplished Anniversary Address by Sir A. 461 had he not borne a large part of the heavy cost at his own charges .
He set himself to discover whether a glass could be devised that would screen the eyes of the glassworkers from the heat and glare of the molten material with which they have to deal .
After an extensive and complex series of experiments he has been able to prepare glasses which cut off more than 90 per cent , of the heat radiation , which are opaque to the invisible ultra-violet rays , and are sufficiently free from colour to be capable of use as spectacles .
It has not been possible , for lack of funds , to proceed far in the investigation of the physiological problems involved in the study of Glassworkers ' Cataract ; the Committee is consequently still unable to present a complete Report .
In the Address which I gave at the end of the first year of my tenure of the office of President I dwelt at some length on the varied activities of the Royal Society , and alluded to the imperfect extent to which these are known to the world outside .
Speaking now at the close of my Presidency I would like once more to refer to this subject , and in connection with it , to the position which the Society holds in relation to the State .
I would again point out that ours is not merely a Society which holds meetings for the reading and discussion of scientific papers , publishes these communications in its ' Proceedings ' and ' Transactions ' and acts generally for the promotion of the progress of science .
Our meetings and our publications are undoubtedly a highly important part of our work , but they by no means comprise the whole field of our operations .
The Royal Society is the one great institution in this country which selects its component members from among the most distinguished men in each of the various branches of pure and applied science .
It has thus acquired the character of a kind of central Council of Science , and may legitimately claim that few scientific problems could arise affecting modern life for the solution of which the most extensive experience and the most authoritative opinion would not probably be found within its own representative ranks .
While this comprehensive capacity for practical usefulness has from the beginning distinguished the Society , it has only in comparatively recent years been to any considerable extent recognised by the State .
The various Departments of Government have slowly realised that the Society includes a large body of trained specialists who are able and willing to give their time and thought to the service of the country in matters where scientific experience is needful .
The public recognition of this ready serviceableness has greatly increased the range of the Society 's activities .
The various enquiries into the nature and prophylaxis of tropical and other diseases which , at the request of different Departments of the Government , the Society has undertaken in recent years and is still carrying on , may be cited as examples of 462 Anniversary Address by Sir A. the nature of the services which we can render in biological matters of Imperial concern .
Again , the fostering care with which the Society lias watched over the rise and progress of the National Physical Laboratory , likewise the participation which it has been asked to take in international associations for geodetic , seismological and other investigations , shows that on the physical side of science its operations have been not less continuous and beneficent .
It would be impossible that these various lines of enquiry should be adequately pursued were not the labour distributed over a number of boards and committees composed of members selected by the Council for their eminence in the branches of science which they severally represent .
The leaders so chosen are often busy professional men , yet they cheerfully give their time and experience to the consideration of the questions submitted to them , and come , even from long distances and entirely at their own charges , to the meetings and conferences in Burlington House .
It is , needless to say " a source of great satisfaction to the Royal Society that its services should now in this manner be made use of for the benefit of the country and of humanity at large .
There is unfortunately , however , a prevailing but mistaken impression that a society which can thus freely place its knowledge and experience at the disposal of the State must be a wealthy body .
It is true that we administer every year a considerable sum of money ; but almost the whole of this sum is ear-marked for certain definite objects and cannot be diverted to anything else .
Even the annual Parliamentary grant of \#163 ; 4000 for scientific investigation , which is placed in the hands of the Society , is not a contribution to the Society 's own operations .
The whole of it , except the trifling sum required for clerical assistance and necessary printing , is allocated to applicants from all parts of the country for their individual researches .
Fellows of the Royal Society may indeed enter into the list of applicants , but the number of those who do so does not amount to one-fourth of the whole .
The Society , by means of its various committees and boards , expends much time and care in sifting and considering the applications , but it employs no part of the grant in the furtherance of its own corporate aims .
There is a second annual Parliamentary grant of \#163 ; 1000 made to the Royal Society to assist in defraying the expenses of publication .
But it is understood that a portion of this sum is to be set aside for the purpose of aiding the adequate publication of scientific matter through other channels and in other ways .
Thus the whole of the subvention which the Society receives annually from the State for its own requirements amounts to only a few hundred pounds towards the cost of its publications , together with the use of its rooms in Burlington Anniversary Address by Sir A. 463 House , where it sits rent fre'e , but subject to expenditure for internal upkeep and repairs .
From time to time valuable benefactions have been made to the Royal Society by some of its Fellows and also by generous donors outside its pale .
Without this help it would have been impossible to undertake much of what we have accomplished , and the usefulness of the Society would have been greatly restricted .
It is to the continuance of such generous donations in the future that we may most hopefully look for the means of strengthening the position and increasing the usefulness of the Society .
But the legacies and donations hitherto made to us have for the most part been assigned for certain specific ends , and cannot be devoted to other purposes which from time to time the Society would be glad if it could undertake .
Some years ago the President and Council took this question of benefactions into their serious consideration , and issued a notification , which appears in every number of the Year Book , to the effect that , while they will willingly receive gifts to be applied to special objects or for the benefit of particular sciences and would wish , wherever desirable , to associate the name of the benefactor in some conspicuous manner with his gift , they consider that , in view of the varying necessities of Science , the most useful benefactions are those which are given to the Society in general terms for the advancement of Natural Knowledge .
As so much of the funds in possession of the Royal Society is applicable only , to certain definite purposes , the balance available from the yearly income , after all expenses have been defrayed , is never large , while occasionally it is actually replaced by a deficit .
In these circumstances it has been difficult for the Society to carry on and complete some of the enterprises which , in the general interest of science , it has undertaken .
Thus , but for the generous assistance of the late Dr. Ludwig Mond , it would have been impossible to prepare the voluminous Catalogue of Scientific Papers for the Nineteenth Century , without seriously trenching upon the funded capital of the Society .
But the donation of that liberal member of our body is now nearly exhausted , and we have to face an expenditure of at least \#163 ; 5,000 before this important work can be completed and published .
Again , the rapidly growing expansion of the National Physical Laboratory , while it is a matter of which the Royal Society has good reason to be proud , is at the same time one which cannot be contemplated without a little misgiving .
The Society is financially responsible for the Laboratory , which now has an annual expenditure of \#163 ; 30,000 .
So long as the receipts exceed that sum we incur no loss , though we have to guarantee an overdraft at the bank to the amount of \#163 ; 3500 .
But should any serious falling off of the receipts arise , such as would be 464 Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
caused by depression in trade or strikes or other causes of the interruption and stagnation of industries , there might be a heavy deficit , for it would not be possible to reduce at once the working expenses of the institution .
Obviously the Society , through the success and growth of the Laboratory , has been placed in a position like that of a manufacturer who tries to carry on an extensive business with a reserve balance of only a few hundred pounds .
This is a position which it is not desirable that we should hold , and from which we ought to be relieved as speedily as possible .
When we consider the amount and value of the gratuitous service given at the request of the various public Departments , it is abundantly obvious that the Government of this country is under special obligations to the Royal Society , which , were they expressed in the plain language of professional practice , would be indicated by a considerable sum of money .
We have assuredly no desire that this service should cease to be gratuitous .
We are at all times ready , as far as lies in our power , to place our time , our knowledge , and our experience , without stint , at the service of the country .
But it is well that in the financial dealings of the Government with the Society , and in the due care for economies , which is a paramount obligation of all Governments , the commercial value of this unpaid labour should not be lost sight of .
We claim that our disinterested action deserves to be recognised by at least a generous and sympathetic attitude on the part of the Government towards our aims and objects , and a disposition to help us when our means prove inadequate to carry out the work which we have undertaken for the furtherance of the progress of science .
Since this Address was written I have within the last few days received a donation which I have the pleasure of now announcing .
Sir James Caird , Bart. , of Dundee , so well known for his munificent benefactions to science , has sent me a cheque for \#163 ; 5000 to be expended in yearly disbursements of about \#163 ; 500 for the furtherance of Physical Research .
We are grateful to him for this generous and timely gift , which can be at once applied to the furtherance of investigations in which we are now engaged and for which our present available funds are inadequate .
It appears to me that the Royal Society will never be sufficiently provided for that active support of research which its position demands until it is in possession of an annual sum of at least \#163 ; 1000 , apart from its ordinary income , which it can devote to any investigations that call for pecuniary assistance .
It often happens that subjects arise regarding which it is highly desirable that enquiry should be undertaken , but where serious expense is involved the Society finds itself crippled for want of funds .
I am not without hope that among our wealthy Bellows and among the still richer men in the community outside , some may be led Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geihie .
to perceive that by donations or bequests to the Eoyal Society they will contribute to the accumulation of such a reserve as I have indicated , which will enable the Society to further the advance of Natural Knowledge in a manner more effective than it has ever yet been able to attain .
Medals .
The Copley Medal is this year assigned to Sir Edwin Ray Lankester , in recognition of the value of his original researches in Zoology and of the importance of his personal influence in stimulating the investigations of his pupils and others , which have materially extended the boundaries of our knowledge of the Animal Kingdom .
His own work , which has been in large measure morphological , has thrown light on the mutual relations of living animals and also on the structure and affinities of long extinct organisms .
His researches in the comparative embryology of the higher Mollusca and of the anatomy of the Nautilus gave him an assured place among the zoologists of his day .
His early papers on the Ostracodenn Eishes of the Old Red Sandstone afforded a memorable example of palaeontological acumen .
In addition to his original investigations , he has laid Zoology under a debt of gratitude to him for his luminous general articles in some of the larger departments of the science .
His pupils speak with enthusiasm of his inspiring guidance as a teacher , and some of the outstanding results of their labour confessedly owe to him the impetus that carried them to a successful issue .
In later years Sir Edwin , though retired from official life , has continued to be unceasingly active in the cause of Natural Knowledge .
Ensconced in his " Easy Chair , " he discourses pleasantly to a large audience in the outside world , while from time to time he enlivens the dullness of life with letters to the Press , written with that caustic pen which he knows se well how to wield .
The Council 's awards of the two Royal Medals annually presented by the King have received His Majesty 's approval .
The Medal on the physical side has been adjudged to Prof. Harold Bailey Dixon , to mark the Society 's appreciation of the importance of his long continued investigations of the phenomena of gaseous explosion .
His important observations on the Theory of Combustion have shown that water-vapour acts as a carrier of oxygen during the oxidation of carbon , and undergoes a cycle of changes wherein it gives up its oxygen to carbon monoxide .
From the further study of the explosion of this monoxide and oxygen , in the presence of other gases , he concluded that any substance capable of producing steam will determine the Anniversary Address by Sir A. explosion .
Preference may be made to his published papers on the explosion , oxidation , and combustion of various substances , together with his numerous determinations of the specific heat of gases at high temperatures .
We recall also his Bakerian Lecture on the Explosion of Gases , which was given in this room twenty years ago .
By the introduction of photography into his studies of the explosive wave he has been able to throw light on the mode of burning of carbon and its compounds .
Becognised as a brilliant investigator of Explosion and Combustion , he was fitly selected to be a member of the Boyal Commission on Explosions in Mines , and he is taking an important part in connection with the experiments on explosions of coal-dust , now being carried on at the instance of the Government .
The Boyal Medal on the biological side is bestowed on Prof. Ernest Henry Starling as a mark of the Society 's high appreciation of the wide range of his contributions to the advancement of physiology .
By his enquiry into the relation of lymph production , and the absorption of fluids from the peritoneal cavity and the cavity of the eye-ball , he showed the dependence of these processes upon the osmotic pressure of the blood and tissue fluids and the hydrostatic pressure in the blood vessels .
He traced the connection between the glomerular activity of the kidney and the osmotic pressure of the serum proteins .
In the course of this investigation he measured the osmotic pressure of the serum proteins by an improved method .
In his excellent studies of the mammalian heart he has greatly improved the technique .
By much reducing the volume of blood needed to maintain a circulation through heart and lung , he has increased the sensibility of the preparation to variations of state , and by introducing into the circuit of the blood a readily adjusted resistance to the flow he can ascertain the effects of the obstacle upon the heart 's action .
He has thus been able to show that the rate of beat depends solely upon temperature , and varies directly with temperature ; and that the output is independent of resistance and temperature , but varies directly with the venous inflow up to a certain limit beyond which congestion of the lungs occurs .
He has discovered that the normal heart of the dog will consume 4 mgrm .
of sugar per gramme muscle per .
hour , but that if the animal is diabetic , the heart is incapable of consuming sugar\#151 ; an observation of singular value in the light it throws upon the cause of diabetes .
But besides the original contributions made by Prof. Starling alone or in conjunction with his pupils , we must bear in mind the brilliant and fundamental work which he accomplished in association with Dr. Bayliss .
To the latter Fellow of the Society a Boyal Medal was awarded two years ago , and it is only fitting that his friend and co-worker should now receive a similar honour .
Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geihie .
The Davy Medal has been awarded to Prof. Raphael Meldola , in acknowledgment of the distinction of his contributions to synthetical Organic Chemistry , especially in the series of aromatic compounds .
He discovered the first representative of the oxazines , a group which has since been developed into one of great importance .
He has contributed to the chemistry of naphthalene derivatives , and carried out extensive researches upon the azo- and diazo-compounds , with results which have an important bearing upon the question of the constitution of these compounds .
He has likewise added to our knowledge of the chemistry of other groups of nitrogen-containing compounds , notably the triazines and the iminazoles .
Of late years he has shown the synthetical value of compounds containing a mobile nitro-group , and has discovered a remarkable new class of quinone-ammonium derivatives .
He is the author of several well known treatises on chemical subjects ; among the latest of these , one entitled ' The Chemical Synthesis of Vital Products , ' has taken rank as a standard work of reference in the important field of which it treats .
The Sylvester Medal is conferred this year on the veteran mathematician , James Whitbread Lee Glaisher .
His prominent career in mathematical science , which began at an early age , has been continued down to the present day without remission , not only in the production of original papers , but in University teaching , and in the careful editorship of most of the special mathematical journals in this country .
To these journals he has constantly contributed much of his own work , such as his papers on the Theory of Numbers , on Elliptic Functions , and many other departments of pure mathematics .
We desire to recognise his single-minded devotion to the science to which he has dedicated his life .
We trust that the award of this Medal will be acceptable to him , as once more associating his name with that of his old friend , Sylvester , with whom he was so closely bound in editorial and other labours .
In considering the bestowal of the Medals this year the Council has -determined to award the Hughes Medal to one who has spent his days in the application of scientific discovery to practical life\#151 ; Alexander Graham Bell .
Although he has been resident for many years on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean , we remember that lie was born in Edinburgh , and was educated there and in London , so that we claim him as a fellow countryman .
His preponderating share in the invention of the telephone , now so long ago as 1876 , and his practical investigations in phonetics , have laid modern .civilisation under deep obligation to him , while His numerous other inventions and experiments show the fertility of his genius .
The Hughes Medal appeared to the Council to be the most appropriate mark of our vol. lxxxix.\#151 ; a. 2 o 4G8 Mr. W. L. Brag .
appreciation which could be offered to a man whom we specially desire to honour .
One final duty remains for me to perform before I retire from this Chair .
I have to thank the Fellows of the Society for the great honour which they conferred upon me when they elected me to be their President , and also for the kindness and sympathy with which they have surrounded me during my tenure of the office .
To.the Council , the Officers , and the permanent Staff I would express my grateful appreciation of the uniform helpfulness and cordiality with which they have assisted me in the discharge of the multiform duties that appertain to the Presidency .
These last five years have been to me a singularly full and happy time , the memory of which will ever be to me a delightful retrospect .
It is my belief that I leave the affairs of this great Society in a not less prosperous condition than that in which they were entrusted to me .
I shall hand over the reins of Office to one whose scientific achievements confer a lustre on the Eoyal Society , and whose long experience of the conduct of our work gives the best assurance that the prosperity of the Society in past years will be amply maintained in those that are to come .
The Analysis of Crystals by the X-ray Spectrometer .
By W. Lawrence Brag , B.A. ( Communicated by Prof. W. H. Brag , F.R.S. Received November 13 , \#151 ; Read November 27 , 1913 .
) In a former communication to the Royal Society , * an attempt was made to determine for certain crystals the exact nature of the diffracting system which produces the Laue X-ray diffraction photographs .
The crystals chosen for particular investigation were the isomorphous alkaline halides NaCl , KC1 , KBr , and KI .
As in the original experiments of Laue and his collaborators , a thin section of crystal was placed in the path of a narrow beam of X-rays , and the radiation diffracted by the crystal made its impression on a photographic plate .
By noticing what differences were caused in the photograph by the substitution of heavier for lighter atoms in the crystal , a definite arrangement was decided on as that of the diffracting points of the crystalline grating .
* W. L. Brag , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 89 , p. 249 .

