" Researches into the effects of certain Physical and Chemical Agents on the Nervous System .
" By Marshall Hall , M.D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. In this .
paper , to which the author considers his former communication as strictly preliminary , he proposes to treat of what he terms the electrogenic state in the spinal marrow and in incident nerves , and to give the details of the collateral experiments he alluded to at the close of his last paper .
He also submits to the consideration of the Society the following circumstances , namely , " 1 .
The electrogenic state of the nerves admits of being discharged , and is capable of inducing the phenomena of voltaism in other nerves .
" ' 2 .
This state is inducible by momentary and slight voltaic currents .
C6 3 .
It is more inducible by the reverse than by the direct voltaic current , as stated by others .
" 4 .
When a nerve forms a part of the voltaic circle , new and superadded circles may be effected , which , by inducing a change in the condition of the first , result in the phenomena of muscular contractions .
" c 5 .
When the voltaic circle is either complete , or , being completed , is broken , and various parts of the wires and animal tissues which form or formed that circle are connected by a conductor , a series of phenomena is produced , some of which still require explanation .
" ' 6 .
It is also important , especially in a medical point of view , to observe the manner and degree in which the vis nervosa and the vis mus ?
cularis are diminished by repeated voltaic action .
" In conclusion the author observes , " I have purposely and carefully avoided all theoretical views , confining myself to the accurate detail of experiments .
The condition induced in the nervous system by a current of voltaism I have denominated the electrogenic .
It might be viewed as one of polarization , its discharge one of depolarization .
But I have nothing to add to these views , beyond what is universally known .
The phenomena of the continuous , interrupted , and sudden discharge of the electrogenic condition , have not , I believe , been traced and detailed before .
"

