On the Total Solar Eclipse of May 17 , 1882 .
1883 .
] The electrical observations afford a means of comparing the fViVknesses of different black films , and observing whether the .
the black portion of any particnlar film alters as its area 'ncSseT The results obtained in the paper and in a previous preliminary investigation on the same subject ( " Proe .
Roy .
Soc , .
" 334 ) are summed up by the authors as follows :Na ) Persistnt soap films , which thin sufficiently to exhibit the i black of the first order of Newton 's rings , invariably display an !
apparent discontinuity in their thickness at the boundary of the black *e Uack regi'n at *he Ume 'f ' 'r very 80011 aftei ' ^^^^^^"Stered in any film , whether the coloured parts of the film are thinning or thickening , increasing or diminishing in extent .
\#166 ; , , ( 4 ) It is different for different films , but no connexion has been traced between its magnitude and the time which elapses ^between the first formation of the film and the first appearance of the black , oi between either of these and the time of observation .
' \#166 ; ( 5)The mean values of this thickness are the same to within a fraction of a millionth of a millimetre , whether the films are plane or cylindrical , in contact with metal or with glass , formed of soap solution alone , or with the addition of more than two-thirds of its volume of glycerine . .
, . .
n ( 6 .
) Two totally independent methods of measuring the thickness ot the black portions of the films give concordant results .
( 7 ) The mean value of the thickness calculated by giving equa weight to the results of the electrical and optical experiments is 11-6 X 10-6 mm. The extreme values were 7*2 X 10 and 14-5 X 10~6 mm. ' .
... .
' .
The smaller of these quantities is therefore a limiting thickness to which a soap film in air saturated with the vapour of the liquid from which it is formed rarely attains , and below which none of the films observed by us have thinned .
III .
" On the Total Solar Eclipse of May 17 , 1882 .
" By ARTHUR Schuster , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and Captain W. de W. Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. Received April 9 , 1*583 .
( Abstract .
) The first part of .
this paper gives an account of the journey and preparations for the eclipse .
Three instruments were to be use .
during totality .
152 Dr. A. Schuster and Capt. W. de W. Abney .
[ Apr. 19 , , lA " .
ordinary camera with lens of 4-inch aperture , and focal length of 5 feet 3 inches .
2 .
A prismatic camera , that is , a camera with prism in front of the lens , or , in other words , a spectroscope without collimator The refracting angle of the prism was 60 ' ; its face 3 inches square The camera had a corrected lens with a focal length of 20 inches in the yellow .
The plate to be exposed was sensitive in the red as welJ aa in the blue .
Photographic spectroscope , with one prism of a refracting angle of 62 , and a length of collimator and camera of 9 inches .
The general appearance of the corona seemed to the naked eye ( of Dr. Schuster ) not to have been strikingly different to that of the two previous eclipses , either in brilliancy or extension , but the photographs reveal very essential differences .
Some time observations were made at the first and last contact , and the length of the eclipse was measured to be seconds .
The second part of the paper gives the results of a careful investigation of all the photographs obtained .
Three photographs of the corona itself with different times of exposure , viz. , 3 , 11 , and 23 seconds , show a gradual increase in the extension of the corona .
Care had been taken to fix , by means of a wire stretched across the camera , the position of the corona , and it is believed that the orientation is accurate within probably a quarter of a degree .
The photographs show the prominences very well , and confirm the distinction which has been drawn between the inner and the outer corona .
The shape of the corona was very irregular .
A close connexion between the outline of the corona and the state of the sun 's surface is placed beyond doubt .
During the time of minimum sun-spots a great extension in a direction approximately coincident both with the ecliptic and with the sun 's equator is observed , and we can generally trace a distinct line of symmetry nearly agreeing with the sun s %xis of rotation .
In addition to the long equatorial rifts , short but sharp rifts appear near the sun s poles .
At times of great solar activity these rifts are not seen , nor is there any symmetry whatever in the general outline of the corona .
During the present eclipse the photographic impression of one of the rifts reached to a distance of T4 solar diameters away from the sun 's limb .
As regards form and general appearance of the streamers two points deserve special notice .
One is the remarkable curvature of some of the coronal rays .
The rays seem in many cases to start almost tangentially from the sun 's limb ; sometimes they are wider near the sun 's limb , contracting as their distance increases ; some of the rifts , however , spread out in a fan-like fashion .
The second point to be noticed is the transparency of the streamers : in two instances at least we can trace structural details through the luminous streamers .
1883 .
] On the Total Solar Eclipse of May 17 , 1882 .
153 A drawing of the corona from the hands of Mr. W. M. Baillie ^Tte^Mon^rMmerwHchare^ totality , can bo Jnh:4 fined by means of the ^h^4 \#163 ; .130 .
G.M.T. , the comet 's place was found to be Dec. 18 34 59 JN .
, R A. 3 h. 34 m. 43 s. An examination of the different photographs shows a slight but \#166 ; progressive change in the comet 's position .
This is in part accounted for by the moon 's motion over the solar disk during the eclipse ; but part of it is very likely due to the proper motion of the comet , which apparently was receding from the sun daring the eclipse Some interesting results were obtained by means of the prismatic pqmera .
The strongest impression of the prominences was obtained in the ring corresponding to the calcium lines H and K. The hydro , gen lines Ha ( 0 ) H/ s ( F ) Hy ( near G ) and H all appear m the strongest prominences ; but differences are noticed m the relative intensity of some of these lines .
Thus , one prominence is especially rich in violet light , and shows both Hy and Htt stronger than two adjacent prominences , which in their turn show a greater intensity of H|3 .
This can be explained on the supposition that the first mentioned prominence was hotter than the others , an explanation which is confirmed by the fact that it shows a great number of lines reaching far into the ultra-violet .
The line ( X=5875 ) , which generally goes by the name of D3 , is also represented in the prominences , and a very weak impression of one prominence , corresponding to a wave-length 5315 ( K 1474 ) , can be seen .
One of the prominences shows two lines in the infra-red ; one of them corresponds very likely to \=8240 , the other is beyond the limit of the normal spectrum published by one of us .
Besides these well-defined prominences the photograph shows two rings , which are evidently due to the lower parts of the corona , and therefore correspond to true coronal light .
The wave-length of one of these rings is 5315 , the well-known corona line ; the second ring corresponds to D3 .
The yellow ring is much fainter than the green one , but more uniformly distributed round the surface of the sun .
An instantaneous photograph taken about five seconds after the end of totality shows still the prominences , and also at the cusps shoit extensions corresponding to the hydrogen lines , and due no doubt to the higher parts of the chromospheric layer .
The photograph taken with the spectroscopic camera shows close to the sun a strong continuous spectrum , reaching from F to a place beyond A , 3490 in the ultra-violet .
At some distance away from the sun there is a sudden falling off in intensity , but traces of the continuous spectrum in the region near G can be seen up to a height of 1-47 solar radii on the southern side of the solar disk , and to a height of '9 of a solar radius on the northern side .
154 On the Total Solar Eclipse of May 17 , 1882 .
[ Apr. 19 ' .
A strong , prominence , which was cut by the slit , gives a Com ' plicated spectrum .
The calcium lines , and especially the lines H and K , stand out prominently .
Then , as might be expected , all the hydrogen lines are represented , including those in the ultra-violet -photographed by Dr. Huggins in star spectra .
Some unknown lines bring up the total number of lines photographed to 29 .
In the outer regions of the corona the continuous spectrum is traversed by the reversal of the solar line G and by a number of faint lines .
About thirty of these coronal lines have been measured .
In conclusion , we may briefly review the results we have obtained The direct photographs of the corona are chiefly of interest in connexion with previous and future eclipses , and we believe that those we have obtained will be found of value , as they hare been taken during a time of maximum sun-spots , as they extend further than any photographs previously obtained , and as the position of the corona in the sky has been fixed by means of them to within a fraction of a degree .
The photograph taken with , the prismatic camera is of importance when we come to compare spectra of different prominences , which are found to give lines with different relative intensities caused no.doubt by differences of temperature .
Two prominence lines in the ultra-red have been discovered .
It is also proved that the green line of the corona is a line specially belonging to the corona .
It is only very faintly present in the prominences , but forms a distinct ring round a large part of the solar disk .
A faint ring corresponding to D " is also seen .
J .
T^e photograph of the spectrum of the corona and prominences has yielded an abundant harvest .
Twenty-nine lines of one prominence have been photographed , and the great importance which the metal calcium plays in the solar eruptions has been emphasized .
Other lines well known hitherto as chromospheric lines , but not traced in the prominences , are now shown to belong to them also , and a number of unknown lines , especially in the ultra-violet , has been added to the list.- i .
, As regards the corona we may point out that only one line has hitherto been well determined , and accepted as a true corona line* though one or two more have been suspected .
During the late eclipse the corona seems to have been especially rich in lines .
Thollon observed some in the violet without being able to fix their position ; j and Tacchini could determine the position of four true corona lines in the red .
We have been able to photograph and measure about thirty additional lines .
The fact that part of the outer corona shines by reflected light has been once more proved by the presence of the dark Fraunhofer set of lines G , and if any.doubt previously existed respecting the presence jgg\#163 ; i On Syringammiiia .
of dark lines in the coronal spectrum , that doubt is .
now completely ^ The6 results have amply proved the value of the photographic method employed , and it has been shown how an eclipse of only seventy seconds ' duration can be made to yield important information .
IV .
Note on Syringammina , a New Type of Arenaceous Rhizo-poda .
" By Henry B. Brady , F.R.S. Received April 10* 1883 .
[ PliATES 2 , 3.3 - The specimens to which the following note refers were dredged in the Faroe Channel in the autumn of last year , during the cruise of H.M.S. " Triton , " and were sent to me for examination by Mr. John Murray , F.R.S.E. , under whose direction the scientific observations of the expedition were carried out .
It is now a well-known fact that the region lying between the north coast of Scotland and the Faroe Islands possesses certain features of unusual interest owing to the existence , side by side , of two sharply defined areas , of which the bottom temperature differs to the extent of 16 ' or 17 ' Fahr. The depth of the two areas is very similar , ranging from 450 to 640 fathoms , and they are separated by a narrow ridge having an average depth of about 250 fathoms .
The physical aspects of this phenomenon have been the subject of much discussion , and the biological conditions attendant thereupon are of almost equal importance ; indeed , so far as the Rhizopoda are concerned , there are few areas of the same extent that have so well repaid the labour of investigation .
On the 44 Lightning " Expedition of 1868 , supei-intended by Dr. Carpenter and Sir Wyville Thomson , the cold area furnished amongst other interesting organisms , the large Lituoline Foraminifer Reophax sabulosa , a form which has since been obtained near the same point on the cruise of the 44 Knight Errant , but has never been met with elsewhere .
The warm area yielded at the same time Astrorhiza arenaria , a large sandy species previously unknown to British naturalists .
On the 44 Porcupine " * Expedition of 1869 , another modification of the latter genus , Astvorhiza cvctsscitinci , was obtained in the cold area ; and near the boundary line an entirely new arenaceous type was dredged , to which the generic named Rotelliua has been assigned by Dr. Carpenter .
From the fact that all the specimens of the form appeared more or less broken , it has been inferred that the tests were adherent when living ; but the fragments were abundant/ and consisted of stout tubes , many of them upwards of an inch in length , the interior being subdivided by a labyrinth of irregular

