70 Prof. J. Thomson .
Appearances of Beams of [ June 16 , June 16 , 1892 .
The LORD KELVIN- , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
Lieut.-Col. Robert Young Armstrong , Professor John Ambrose Fleming , Dr. Robert Giffen , Professor William Abbott Herdman , Mr. John Joly , Dr. Joseph Larmor , Professor Louis C. Miall , and Dr. Augustus D. Waller were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On a Multiple Induction Machine for producing High-Tension Electricity , and on some remarkable Results obtained with it .
" By the Lord Armstrong , C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 18 , 1892 .
[ Publication deferred .
] II .
" On certain Appearances of Beams of Light , seen as if emanating from Candle or Lamp Flames .
" By the late Professor James Thomson , F.R.S. Communicated by Lord Kelvin , P.R.S. , with an Introductory Notice .
Received June 10 , 1892 .
About the end of last January , when my brother was fully occupied in writing his paper on the Trade Winds for the Bakerian Lecture , he called my attention to the well-known beams or ladders of light seen below or above a lamp flame viewed with partially-closed eyelids , and he gave me verbally an explanation of the phenomenon which surprised me very much .
By some simple and interesting trials with my own eyes , which he explained to me how to make , I was perfectly convinced that his explanation was correct ; and believing it , as I still believe it , to be new , I urged him to write a short paper on the subject for the Royal Society , but not to let it interfere with his work for the Bakerian Lecture ; and he undertook to do so as soon as might be after being freed from this work .
We hoped , somewhat confidently , that he might be able to give the thus promised paper before the end of the present session of the Royal Society .
That 1892- ] Light seen as if emanating from Flames .
hope has not been fulfilled , and I bad offered to the Secretaries a communication describing my recollection of what my brother had told me , when his son found a memorandum of date 18th October , 1891 , and a little book of notes of date 29th December , which tell the story better than I could have told it , and which , therefore , though not completed in proper form for publication , I now give in the unfinished form in which they have been found , with only a somewhat more clear drawing , and description of drawing , substituted for the rough sketch found in his note of date October 18 , 1891 .
Proposed probable Paper for the ( f ) , by T. , " On the Nature and Origin of certain Appearances of Beams of Light as if emanating from Candle or Lamp Flames Description of the Drawing .
[ The drawing represents a vertical section of the eye , eyelids , and watery prismoids , * through FF ' , the axis of the eye .
The large number of parallel lines outside represent rays of light coming from a flame several feet or yards away in the direction of F ' , to the eyelids , the prismoids , and the undisturbed outer surface of the cornea between the prismoids .
The lines within the eye below FF ' represent the convergence to F , the image of the flame , of those of the external rays from the flame which fall on the undisturbed portion of the surface of the cornea .
The lines within the eye above FF ' represent rays disturbed by the prismoid of the upper eyelid which , incident on the retina at bbb , give the perception as if of light coming from without in the direction of the dotted lines outside the eye .
It is this perception that constitutes the appearance of the downward beams or ladders of light , due to the prismoid of the upper eyelid .
The rays disturbed by the prismoid of the lower eyelid , in the position represented in the diagram , are all stopped by the lower part of the iris .
Looking now at the diagram , we understand perfectly that if , with the eyeball and flame unchanged , the upper eyelid be gradually raised a little , the uppermost of the rays coming inwards from the prismoid will fall on the upper part of the iris and will be stopped by this screen .
Thus , the length of bbb upwards from F is diminished , until all the beams from the prismoid are stopped by the iris , and the length of the apparent beams below the flame correspondingly diminishes to zero .
When the upper eyelid is wide open the flame is seen without any appearance of the beams below it .
We also understand readily from the diagram how , if the lower eyelid is lifted a little without any change in the position of the upper eyelid , beams both above and below the flame are seen .
We also conclude that if , * The refracting watery liquid in the entrant corner between lip of eyelid and cornea may be called the prismoid or liquid prismoid .
72 Prof. J. Thomson Appearances of Beams of [ June 16 , Bough Sketch ( imperfect ' ) .
1892 .
] Light seen as if emanating from Flames .
with the eyelids fixed relatively to the head , the head is moved while the eyeball remains with its axis in the direction of the flame , we see beams of light above the flame when the head is turned upwards , and beams of light below the flame when the bead is turned downwards .
Also that if the eyelids are partially closed , as in the diagram , beams will be seen both above and below the flame when the head carrying the eyelids with it , is turned slightly up from the position shown in the diagram .
Also that if the eyelids be wide open , instead of half closed as shown in the diagram , no beams , either above or below the flame , will be seen when the two eyelids are equidistant , 01 nearly equidistant , above and below the middle of the pupil .
When the head , with the eyelids , is turned downwards , so as to bring the upper eyelid across the aperture of the pupil , beams of light are seen below the flame ; and when the head , with the eyelids , is turned upwards so as to bring the lower eyelid across the middle of the pupil , beams of light produced by the prismoid of the lower eyelid are seen above the flame .
] Notes on Quasi-Bay Beams of Light from , or other small Luminous Spots .
Date of Note , 29th December , 1891 .
I have noticed decidedly this morning to the following effect : In some cases ( the nature of which I intend to note further on ) I found that , when seeing a small gas flame with apparent descending tail ( or quasi-beam of rays ) , I could , by lowering the upper eyelid , cut off vision of the flame , while leaving the tail visible ; and , by still further lowering the upper eyelid , I could cut off the upper part of the tail , leaving the lower part , the part remote from the flame , quite visible as before .
The contrast between lowering the upper eyelid and lowering a sci'een ( a card , for instance ) in front of the eye wras very remarkable .
In the lowering of the card or other screen , the tail vanishes before the flame is eclipsed ; but in lowering the eyelid the flame is eclipsed first .
In some attitudes I could not bring out these phenomena .
I did find them when awake in bed early in the morning , head on pillow and light coming down from a gas flame obliquely to the eye .
Point to which eye was directed seemed to do best when taken at an altitude ( angular ) somewhat above the gas flame .
Afterwards , this same morning , I found I could see the phenomenon when standing upright and looking at image of gas in mirror .
Kay from image ascending obliquely ; eyesight directed above image in looking-glass .
Again , looking at a gas flame a little above the level of the eye , I stood erect and elevated my face , directing my eyesight to above the 74 Beams of Light cts if emanating from Flames .
[ June 10 , gas ; then lowered the upper eyelid and saw the downward tail remaining when the gas flame was eclipsed by the eyelid .
The theory of all this is clear to me , and in agreement with what I have previously devised.\#151 ; J. T. Take notice that to get the phenomena above sketched out to show themselves , the edge of upper eyelid , where roots of eyelashes are situated , must not shadow the prismoid when the eyelid is lowered enough to cover the pupil from the direct rays of the candle or gas flame .
After the candle is cut off from the pupil , the direct rays from the flame must still be reaching the prismoid .
This , I think , tallies with the experimental conditions under which the tail was seen when the flame was eclipsed by eyelid.\#151 ; J. T. P.S.\#151 ; Same day , 29th December .
On a little further consideration I notice that the elevation of the face is of no importance .
It is only the elevation of the line of special direction of the eyesight [ axis of the eye ] relatively to the line from flame to eye that is important.\#151 ; J. T. Notes on Quasi-Light Beams .
( For paper .
) Often I fail to see the apparently ascending beam above the candle or gas flame .
But I find that by very nearly shutting the eye I can see the ascending beam going up very high and the descending one at same time .
On bringing my open hand down from above as if to cut off the ascending beam I see the beam as if between my eye and my hand , and the flame begins to be eclipsed before the beam is cut off , or even diminished .
Note by the President of date June 16 .
I had asked many friends well acquainted with optical subjects whether they knew of this explanation of the luminous beams , and all said no until yesterday evening , at the soiree of the Royal Society , when Professor Silvanus Thompson immediately answered by giving the explanation himself , and telling me that he had given it to his pupils in his lectures on optics , as an illustration of a concave cylindrical lens .
He did not know of the explanation ever having been published otherwise than in his lectures .
I have myself also looked in many standard books on optics , and could find no trace of intelligence on the subject .
It seems quite probable , therefore , that , of all the millions of millions of men that have seen the phenomenon , none , within our three thousand years of scientific history , had ever thought of the true explanation except Professor Silvanus Thompson and my brother .

