On the relative Powers of various metallic Substances as Conductors of Electricity .
By Mr. William Snow Harris , of Plymouth , Surgeon .
Communicated by J. Knowles , Esq. 'F.R.S .
NVovember 14 , 1826 .
Read December 14 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 18 .
] The principle on which the author proposes to found a numerical estimate of the conducting powers of metallic bodies , is , that these powers are in some inverse ratio of the heat evolved during the passage of an electric charge through them ; and his mode of applying this principle to practice , consisted in the enclosure of wires of the different metallic bodies to be examined , in a given volume of air contained in a glass vessel , and pressing on a column of coloured liquid in a tube of small diameter communicating freely with it .
The heat developed in the wire by the discharge of a battery of given surface charged to a given tension , being communicated to the air in the globe , expands it , and raises the liquid in the tube through a space , which , being read off on an attached scale , becomes a measure of the heat .
After describing the precautions used to insure results comparable with each other ( such as those employed for obtaining an equal electric discharge in each experiment from a battery of 25 square feet of coated surface , the drawing of all the wires through the same holes to secure this exact equality of diameter , &amp;c. ) , he proceeds to state the results of an extensive series of experiments .
The simple metals tried were copper , silver , gold , zinc , platinum , iron , tin , and lead ; and the heats evolved from each were found to be in the order in which they are here set down , that from copper being the least , and from lead greatest , of all the substances tried , being in the proportion of 6 to 72 , or 1 to 12 .
The following are the principal conclusions to which his experiments have led him .
The conducting powers of silver and copper are alike , also those of iron and platinum , and those of zinc and brass .
That of lead and tin , he states as being in the ratio of 2 : 1 , being an obvious inversion of the ratio , and the same he observes of zinc and gold .
Gold to copper , he states as 2 : 3 ; zinc to copper or silver , as 1:3 ; platinum or iron to copper or silver , as 1 : 5 ; tin to copper or silver , as 1 : 6 and lead to copper or silver , as 1 : 12 .
The conducting powers of metals when alloyed are variously affected .
Thus , the conducting power of gold and copper , or gold and silver , when alloyed together , is worse than that of either metal separately , and the difference increases with the quantity of the metal of inferior conducting power present .
On the other hand , alloys of copper and silver , in all proportions , have the same conducting powers with each of those metals separately ; while in alloys of tin and lead , the heat evolved is a mean of that of the heats evolved from eacth metal separately , taking into account the relative weights of each metal present in the alloy .
He observes , further , that very small quantities of alloy influence materially the conducting power .
Thus he found that wires , drawn from foreign gold coins , reputed to be very pure , conducted much worse than when drawn from the same gold refined .
The substitution of a flattened for a cylindrical wire , or the separation of the latter into four smaller wires , were found to have no influence on the quantities of heat developed .

