]\gt ; whether a gladient of 45 feet per degree may not be nearer the trne normal than even the one of 48 feet obtained by the observations .
III .
" " On the Connexion between Electric Curren and the Electric and Magnetic Inductions in the surrounding Field By J. H. POINTING , M.A. , late ] of College , Cambridge , Professor of Physics , Mason College , Birmingham .
Communicated by Lord RAYLEIGH , M.A. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received January 31 , 1881 ( Abstract .
) This paper describes a hypothesis as to the connexion between current in conducbors and the transfer of electric and magnetic inions in the surrounding field .
The hypothesis is suggested by the mode of transfer of energy in the electromagnetic field , resulting from Maxwell 's equations investigated in a former paper Phil. Trans vol. 175 , pp. , 1884 .
It was there shown that ac.cording to Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory the energy which is dissipated in circuit is transferred through the medium , always moving perpendicularly to the plane containing the lines of electric and magnetic intensity , and that it comes into the conductor from the surrounding insulator , not flowing along the wire .
Symbolising the nature of the induction by unit tubes drawn in the direction of the induction in the usual way , i. e. , so at there is unit quant-ity of induction over every section of a tube , the electric induction is equal to electric , and the magnetic induction is equal to magnetic intensity .
The electric is the same quantity as Maxwell 's " " displacement The hypothesis now made ffi transferred through the in a similar manner to the snergy , the induction being regarded as propagated sideways rather than along the lines or tubes of induction .
The tubes of electric induction move in upon ths wire containing a current , and are there broken up or dissolved , while the magnetic tubes , which are ringhaped , contract upon the wire and finally disappear , the places of { the tubes thus lost being supplied by fresh tubes sent out from the of electromotive force .
Examining the basis of Maxwell 's electromagnctic theory , it is seen ( to rest on three principles , .
:\mdash ; I. The electric and netic energies are distributed through the field in a manner which be assigned .
Dividing the unit tubes into unit cells by level surfaces drawn at unit diflerences of potential , each electrical cell , to Maxwell , contains half a tlnit of energy , and each cell unit .
II .
The line )egral of the electric ensity round any closed curve is equal to the rate of decrease of the total magne ic induction through the curve .
III .
The line integral of the magnetic intensity round any cloeed curve , is equal to current through the curve .
The second and third principles are modified in a manner ested by the supposed movement of the tubes of induction .
II modified .
Whenever electromotive is produced by a in the magnetic field or by motion of matter the field , the Fi .
M.F. per unit length , or the electric , is equal to the umber of tubes of magnetic induction , cutting or cut by the unit length per second , the .
tending to produce induction in ection in which a right-handed screw would move if turned round from the direction of motion , relatively to the tubes , towards the ection of the magnetic induction .
This will give the result of Il above , if the quantity of magnetic induction through a CUTYe only alters by the movement of tubes in or out across the boundary .
Reasons for the supposition are given .
III modified .
Using the term netomotive force , a term suggesbed by Mr. Bosanquet , to denote the line integral : of the magnetic lntensity round the axis of a tube of induction , the third pl'inciple is as follows : \mdash ; Whenever magnetomotive foroe is produoed by change in thdelectric field , or by motion of matter through the field , the magnetomotive force per unit length is equal to number of tubes of electric induction cutting or cut by unit length per second , the magnetomotive force tending to produce induction in the direction in which a righthanded screw would move if turned round from the direction of the VOL. XXXVIII .
to the axis of the wire per second moving inwards .
On the supposition that the tubes .
energy in with them , it is that the electl.ic and magnetic tubes each account for half the energy , so that we may suppose that the energy crossing any surface is equally divided bebween the two kinds .
On the supposition that the tubes can be identified throughout their motion in the insulating medium , their velocities are caleulated .
Discharge of Condenser through Fine Wire .
lVhen the terminals of a charged condenser consisting of two parallel plates are Qounected by a wire , the energy which was before the discharge chiefly between the two plates , now appear*as heat in the wire .
The electric ction tubes are supposed to outwards from the space between the plates , keeping their ends upon the plates or wires .
They finally converge upon the wire and are there broken up .
The hypothesis is in accordance with doctrine of .
For the total result is equivalent to the addition of so closed induction tubes to the cil.cuit , the induction running the same way relalively to the circuit throughout .
When the eondenser is discharged imperfecb iulation of the dielectric , we may represent the process still as a.closed current , the two parts of which are the loss of induction and its dissipation , but this is artificial , and it is more natural to look upon the process as a decay of induction ithout movement of fresh induction tubes inwards , and therefore without the formation of magnetic , induction .
case is discussed some length , as we can here realize what goes on at the sonrce of ' Induction in the surrounding Field .
171 , and the resuIts suggest that a similar action occurs at the of energy or seat of E.M.F. in other cases .
A ontain a Cell .
The chemical theory of the cell is adopted .
It is first shown that dffierence of potential of the two terminals in open circuit is equal to the E.M.F. immediately after closure , because chemical action will go on charging the terminals , i.e. , putting out energy into the imedinm , until any further charge would require more energy in the medium than is supplied by the chemical action necessary , according to Faraday 's law of electrolysis .
The level surfaces are , and it is supposed that the potentials being in ascending order , zinc , copper , acid , all of the surfaces pass between the zinc and the acid , some of them bending round and passing between the copper and acid , the rest going between the terminals .
When the circuit is closed , tubes of electric ductiou , ranning from acid to zinc , are supposed to diverge outwards and close in on the rest of the circuit , there running in the opposite direction , i.e. , from copper to zinc .
A divergence of negative tubes being magnetically equivalent to a convergence of positive tubes , the magnetic relations of the circuit or the direction of the current will be same throughout .
The tendency to a steady state is discussed .
The existence of charges in the circuit is taken to show that the tubes of electric induction do not enter the wire at the same time throughout the whole of their length .
Current produced Motion of a Conductor in gnetic Field .
In this case it is shown that according to the } ) othesis we must uppose a divergence of negative tubes from the seat of E.M.F. The General Equahons of the Field .
The assumption that if we take any closed curve , the number of tubes of magnetic induction passing through it is equal to the excess of the number which have moved in over the number which have moved out through the boundary since the beginning of the formation of the field , suggests a historical mode of describing the state of the lield at any Taking as the numbers of magnetic tubes which have cut unit lengths of the axes through a point since the beginning of the system , those being ered posilive which tend to posibive electric intensity , the equations \mdash ; ' and two others are obtained .
From these and the ordinary current equations \mdash ; ' and \amp ; for electric , it is found to give rise to a triple integral having value at stlrfaces of contact of milar substances and at charged urfaces .
In the case when there is no material motion the components of electric intensity are\mdash ; and two other equations .
If the system is steady , On putting , and dxdydz , we obtain , and two other equations .
It is shown that these equations may be obtained wiohout the suecial hypothesis as to the mode of motion of the ma , netic induction by assuming Equatiuns are also obtained by considering the growth of the electric induction .

