May 26 , 1853 , The EARL OF ROSSE , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read:1 .
A letter from Mr. Joule to Colonel Sabine .
Communicated by Col. Sabine , Treas .
V.P.R.S. &amp;c. .0 Acton Square , Salford , May 23 , 1853 .
MY DEAR SIR , -I notice in the Proceedings of the Royal Society for April 21 , a letter from M. Regnault in which some experiments of my own are referred to in a manner which I feel does me injustice .
M. Regnault says , " Le nombre trouve par M , Joule pour la chaleur specifique de l'air sous pression constant ( 0-226 ) est beaucoup trop faible .
Celui qui resulte de mes experiences tras nombreuses , et faites dans des circonstances variees , afin de reconnaltre et d'eliminer les erreurs constantes , est 0'237 .
" Now , in my paper on the air-engine , Phil. Trans. 1852 , part i. p. 74 , I have given the results of three series of experiments , viz. 0-23008 , 0'22674 , and 0-2325 , and remark , " The mean of the three results is 0'22977 , or nearly 0-23 , which we may take as the specific heat of air at constant pressure determined by the above experiment , s. " I had been informed that M. Regnault was working on the specific heat of gases , and on that account did not feel it desirable to enter upon the laborious investigation which would have been requisite in order to add a couple of decimal figures to the number I had arrived at , and which was sufficient for the object I had in view , viz. to show that the discrepancy between the actual and theoretical velocity of sound arose from the incorrectness of Delaroche and Berard 's determination of the specific heat of air ( 2'67 ) , and not from any notable error in my number for the mechanical equivalent of the thermal unit .
Having succeeded in doing this , I calculated the Tables 3 and 4 of my paper , using 0'238944 for the specific heat of air under constant pressure .
I feel much gratified that the result arrived at by so eminent an experimentalist as M. Regnault confirms the accuracy in the main of the number I adopted .
I have only to add that Professor Thomson and myself , in pursuing our research on the thermal effects of rushing elastic fluids , are following up the views on the relation between mnechanical and thermal phenomena originated by ourselves ; and we shall feel most happy if Mv .
Regnault 's results , in the important line of investigation he has adopted , will facilitate our labour .
I have the honour to remain , dear Sir , Yours most truly , Colonel Sabine , &amp;c. cc .
Jc .
J.P. JoULE .

