Philos. Trans. No.395 Fig 1 Clear sky V. A Letter from Dr. Hallet , Physician at Exeter , to Dr. Henry Pemberton , F. R. S. on the same Subject .
Exon .
Octob. 12 , 1716 .
OCtob .
3 , 1726 , at Nine in the Evening , I saw an Aurora Borealis ( as it is commonly called , ) in which there was nothing different from former Appearances , expecting that from the luminous Arch which appeared in the North , were frequently shot off Parts of Arches towards the Zenith , which vanished there .
Oct. 8 , Coming from the Country near Seven in the Evening , I observed a great Light in the East and West , which soon extended it self over our Heads , the North and South appearing dark at the same time .
No Cloud was seen all that Day .
A great Dew fell on a sudden , with which the Streets were wet , as by a small Rain .
Half an Hour after Seven many Streams appeared in the North , which grew very bright , and darted frequently up to the Zenith .
A Line drawn through the Bases of them , made an Arch of a Circle , extending from the N. E. to the W. or S. W. But the Streams seemed to proceed from a clear Sky being distinct from one another at the Bases , and not united by a luminous Arch or Cloud , as in the more usual Aurora 's .
The Streams at the Extremities of the Arch were brighter , wider and longer when they did not shoot , than those on the Top of it .
[ See Fig. 1 .
] There was at the same time a luminous Arch extending it self from the two Extremities of the above-mention 'd Aurora through the South , at a considerable Altitude .
About Eight o ' clock the Streams began to have an Horizontal Motion , propagating themselves on both sides towards the South ; and in a Minute or two the whole Heaven was surrounded with them .
Immediately they all extended themselves up to a Point near the Zenith ( I think , a little towards the East ) where their Points were blended together in a confused manner .
At the same time , every Stream , which before was white , appeared striped with all the Colours of the Rainbow ; but the most prevailing Colour was a deep Red .
It is impossible to express the Beauty of this glorious Umbrella , which covered the whole Hemisphere with its variegated Rays , the Colours of which succeeded one another in a regular Order .
In the Center of these Rays was a confused Rolling , Agitation or Ebullition of a luminous Cloud , appearing like Smoke .
In about ten Minutes ( as I imagine ) the Colours disappeared , and the Streams began to retire from the Zenith ; presently after which , they would frequently dart and shoot with great Celerity up to the same Point .
This Darting and Flashing , together with a tremulous Motion from all sides of the Horizon , I observed till 12 .
And I am informed by others , that it continued till Four in the Morning .
The most considerable Rays came from the East and West .
Next Morning we had a Fogg .
The best Account which I can give of this Phenomenon is this : I imagine a thin Cloud composed of a Sulphureous Exhalation , hanging over us in the Air , at a considerable Height , parallel to the Horizon ; the Length of it being very great from East to West nearly ; the Breadth of it ( at first ) not so great , but that we might see the Stars from under it to the North and South .
The North Side of it , I suppose , first took Fire , and shot its Streams or Flames perpendicularly upwards , which being undisturbed by Winds , must appear straight and pointed at the Top .
The Bases must make an Arch by the Rules of Perspective : For , I think , an Horizontal Right Line , of a vast Length , and at a great distance from us ( such as I take the Northern Edge of this luminous Cloud to have been , ) seen at a considerable height in the Air , must appear bent down into an Arch. On a sudden the Fire propagated it self to all parts of this Vapour .
The whole Heaven must then appear covered with the same Streams , which tho really parallel to one another , must appear bent into a Cupola .
The shooting and darting of these Flames , and their Concourse , together with a Smoke proceeding from them , must give that confused Cloud which was observed in the Center of this Canopy .
The regular Disposition of the Colours in every Stream , perhaps , you may account for .
I think , the Red appeared at the right hand in all of them .
Somewhere in the Philos. Transact. I have met with an Observation of an Aurora , in which the Streams were coloured only where they met , or crossed one another .
Whether the Light of one Stream passing thro ' another , may not be separated into Colours by Refraction , I will not determine .
You may think of a better Solution .
If the Altitude of the Top of the Arch in the North had been taken here , and at the same time at another Place upon the same Meridian , whose distance is known , from thence I imagine , the Height of the Cloud ( as I call it ) might have been calculated .
I am , &amp;c.

