Mr. P. Griess on some [ Peb .
15 currents in an infinite plane sheet has been solved , taking into account the mutual induction of these currents , so as to make the solution applicable to a sheet of any degree of conductivity .
The statement in equation ( 10 ) , that the motion of a magnetic system does not produce deferences of potential in the infinite sheet , may appear somewhat strange , since we know that currents maybe collected by electrodes touching the sheet at different points .
These currents , however , depend entirely'on the inductive action on the part of the circuit not included in the sheet ; for if the whole circuit lies in the plane of the sheet , but is so arranged as not to interfere with the uniform conductivity of the sheet , there will be no difference of potential in any part of the circuit .
This is pointed out by Felici , who shows that when the currents are induced by the instantaneous magnetization of a magnet , these currents are not accompanied with differences of potential in different parts of the sheet .
When the sheet is itself in motion , it appears , from art .
600 of my treatise f On Electricity and Magnetism , ' that the electric potential of any point , as measured by means of the electrodes of a fixed circuit , is d# By where ^ are the components of the velocity of the part of the sheet to which the electrode is applied .
In the case of a sheet revolving with velocity a ?
about the axis of z , this becomes , / r ?
P .
dV \ Note 2.\#151 ; The velocity R for a copper plate of best quality 1 millimetre in thickness is about 25 metres per second .
Hence it is only for small velocities of the apparatus that we can obtain any approximation to the true result by neglecting the mutual induction of the currents.\#151 ; Feb. 13 .
II .
" On some Derivatives of Uramidobenzoic Acid .
" By P. Gkjess , F.R.S. Received January 15 , 1872 .
Ibis acid , of which I gave a short description some time ago* , has the composition Ca Hs N2 03 .
I obtained it in the first instance from the basic compound C10H12N2 03 , which is one of the products of the action of cyanogen on an alcoholic solution of amidobenzoic acid .
Its * Zeitsch .
f. C'liem .
1868 , p. 389 .
\ |g7^ , ] Derivatives of Uramido Acid .
169 1 forraation takes place in the manner indicated in the following equation:\#151 ; C10H12N2O8 + HJ3 = + C2H6Q .
Basic compound .
Water .
Uramidoben- Alcohol .
zoic acid .
1 Since then I have shown * that this acid is also formed when urea and amidobenzoic acid are cautiously melted together:\#151 ; C , H , N 0 , + COH4Nj = C^H^O , + NH , Amidoben- Urea .
Uramidoben- Ammonia , zoic acid .
zoic acid .
A third and more advantageous process of preparing uramidobenzoic acid , that of Menschutkin f , depends on the mutual decomposition which takes place when aqueous solutions of potassium cyanate and amidobenzoic-acid hydrochloride are mixed :\#151 ; C7H7N02 , HC1 + CNOK = C8H8N203 + KaOl . .
Amidobenzoic Potassium UramidobenPotasacid hydro- cyanate .
zoic acid .
sium chloride .
' chloride .
Menschutkin has described this acid under the name of oxybenzuramic acid ; but I have satisfied myself that it is identical with the uramidobenzoic acid obtained by the two first-mentioned processes .
I will not here recapitulate the properties of this acid , which are described in my former papers on the subject , and in that of Menschutkin , who has also considered the constitution of the compound .
The uramidobenzoic acid is particularly remarkable for the great number of derivatives it is capable of yielding , being surpassed by but few organic compounds in this respect .
It is my intention in this communication to describe several of these derivatives .
Action of strong Nitric Acid on Acid .
When uramidobenzoic acid , deprived of its water of crystallization , is | gradually introduced into well-cooled fuming nitric acid that has been freed from nitrous acid , it is dissolved in large quantities , and without any evo-I htion of gas .
The solution , when nearly saturated , is allowed to stand for j ^bout one hour , and then poured into a large quantity of water , taking care to avoid rise of temperature .
By this means an abundant yellowish-white crystalline precipitate is obtained , having strongly marked acid properties- It is soluble in alcohol , and easily so in ether , even in the cold , crys- ' tallizing therefrom in yellowish-white needles which have the composition I N4 07 .
In spite of their appearance , however , they are by no means homogeneous , consisting , as I have ascertained , of three different acids , all * Deut .
Chem. Ges .
Ber .
1869 , p. 47 .
t Ann. Chem. und Pharm , yol .
cliii .
p. 83 .
Mr. P. Griess on some [ Feb. 15 , of which have the formula C , H , N4 0 " so that they may he regarded as isomeric dinitrouramidobenzoic acids , C8H6N407 \#151 ; C8 H6-(N02)203 .
Although I have not yet been able to completely separate these acids from one another owin* to the great similarity of their properties , the following facts leave no doubt as to the correctness of this view regarding their nature .
Decomposition of the Isomeric Dinitrouramidobenzoic Acids by boiling with Aqueous .
When the solution of the three isomeric dinitro-acids in aqueous am-monia is boiled for some time , decomposition ensues , resulting in the formation of three new isomeric acids of the formula C8 H7 N3 05 , as represented in the following equation:\#151 ; C8H6N407 + HaO = C8H7N3Oa + N H 03 .
Isomeric dini- New isomeric Nitric tro-acids .
acids .
' acid .
From a consideration of the composition of these new acids , it will be evident that they may be regarded as mononitrouramidobenzoic acids , which view is , moreover , confirmed by their chemical reactions .
By taking advantage of the difference in the solubility of their respective barium salts , they may be separated from one another .
The following are the details of their preparation:\#151 ; The dilute ammoniacal solution of the mixed dinitrouramidobenzoic acids is kept boiling for about an hour , when the decomposition may be regarded as complete .
A sufficient quantity of ba-rium chloride is then added to the hot solution , and on cooling a considerable amount of needle-shaped crystals separate , which consist of the barium salt of one of the new acids , the / 3 nitrouramidobenzoic acid , When the mother-liquor separated from these crystals is sufficiently concentrated by evaporation , another barium salt begins to separate , the quantity of which may be considerably increased by allowing the solution to stand for some hours .
The yellowish-white salt thus obtained appears amorphous to the unassisted eye , but on careful inspection will be seen to consist of minute needles .
The acid corresponding to this salt I propose to call a nitrouramidobenzoic acid .
In order to obtain the barium salt of the third nitro-acid , the y nitro* uramidobenzoic acid , the mother-liquor from the previous salt is evaporated nearly to dryness on the water-bath , and the resulting mass washed with cold water * .
The residue , when crystallized from hot water , taking care to avoid too long boiling , yields the pure barium salt of y nitrouramidobenzoic acid in bright yellow scales .
As regards the separation of the three nitro-acids in question from their * The washing contains , besides ammonium and barium chlorides , another barium salt , crystallizing in yellowish-red needles , which I shall revert to in another part \#171 ; the paper .
1872-1 Derivatives of Uramidobenzoic .
171 respective barium salts , this is easily effected by adding a slight excess of hydrochloric acid to the hot aqueous solutions of the latter , the acids crystallizing out on cooling .
a nitrouramidobenzoic acid , C8 H7 ( N02 ) N203.\#151 ; This acid crystallizes in bright yellow needles or small plates , which are difficultly soluble in hot water , and but very slightly so in cold water and ether .
Boiling alcohol dissolves it readily .
Its salts have the general formula C8 H0(NO2)N2O3 , M ' , and are as a rule soluble with difficulty .
ft nitrouramidobenzoic acid , 08 HT ( N02 ) N203.\#151 ; This acid crystallizes from its hot aqueous solution in very slender bright yellow needles , closely resembling in appearance its barium salt previously described .
It is nearly insoluble in cold water , and only very slightly in hot ; by boiling alcohol , however , it is taken up in considerable quantities .
It is mono-basic like the a acid .
y nitrouramidobenzoic acid , C8 H7 ( N02 ) N2 03 , is obtained in small yellow scales , which are but very slightly soluble in all neutral solvents .
It is mono-basic , and almost all its salts are more readily soluble than the corresponding salts of the other isomeric acids ; moreover it is readily distinguished by the decomposition which it undergoes when boiled with water for a considerable time .
It is then gradually dissolved , splitting up in the following manner:\#151 ; C8H7N305 + HaO = c7h6n2o4 + C02 + NH3 .
The compound , C7 He Na 04 , thus formed is also an acid which will be described further on .
The salts of the y nitro-acid likewise suffer a similar decomposition when their aqueous solutions are boiled ; and the substance mentioned in the footnote on p. I/ O , as crystallizing in yellowish-red needles , is the barium salt of the acid C7H6N204 , formed in this way .
Action of Tin and Hydrochloric Acid on the Isomeric Nitrouramidobenzoic Acids .
When a nitrouramidobenzoic acid is heated with tin and hydrochloric acid , it is reduced in the ordinary way , yielding a. amidouramidobenzoic acid , C8H9N303 = C8 H7 ( N H2 ) N2 03 , crystallizing in scales , ordinarily of a greyish-white colour .
It is but slightly soluble in boiling water , still less so in hot alcohol , and almost insoluble in ether .
Its silver salt is a white precipitate , having the formula C8H8N303Ag .
Its hydrochloric-acid compound , C8H9N303 , HC1 , crystallizes in scales , and is marked by its great insolubility irvliydrochloric acid , even when very dilute .
When the aqueous solution of the latter compound is acted upon with sodium nitrite , an azocompound separates , crystallizing in needles , which are soluble in hydrochloric acid .
f nitrouramidobenzoic acid also , when treated with tin and hydrochloric acid , is converted into an amido-acid , C8 H7 ( N H2 ) N2 Os , isomeric with that last described .
This new acid , which I call amidouramidobenzoic acid , Mr. P. Griess some [ Feb. I5j crystallizes in white scales , rather insoluble in hot water and extremely in cold .
Curiously enough , it does not possess the property of combining with acids , but with bases it forms salts having the general formula C8 H8 N3 Os , M ' .
Its silver salt is a white crystalline precipitate .
This new amido-acid is remarkable for its instability ; boiled with hydrochloric acid or with baryta-water , it is decomposed in the following manner c8h9n3o3 .
= C8H0N2O3 v-----v----y ^ " v ' " 1 j8 amidoura- New acid , midobenzoic acid .
+ NH , .
Ammonia .
The new acid , C8 H0 N2 03 , thus obtained forms small white nodules , which are insoluble in all ordinary neutral solvents .
It combines with ammonia , forming a salt which crystallizes in difficultly soluble long needles .
Its hot ammoniacal solution , when mixed with barium chloride , solidifies to a pulp of white needles , which , when dried between filter-paper , have the composition ( C8 HsNa03)2 , Ba + 4H20 .
With respect to its constitution , I am inclined to regard it as amidobenzoic acid , in which one atom of hydrogen is replaced by the group [ ( CO)N ] : C8 He N2 03=C7 H4(NH2 ) [ ( ( CO)N)]Oa , and therefore propose to call it / 3 amidocarboxamidobenzoic acid .
y nitrouramidobenzoic acid , when treated with tin and hydrochloric acid , behaves differently from either of the other isomeric acids , not yielding an amido-acid , but suffering at once a much deeper decomposition , as represented in the following equation :\#151 ; C8H7N305 + Hg = CgJHg NgOg + NH^ + H^O .
y nitrouramido- New acid .
Ammonia .
Water , benzoic acid .
This new acid , C8 He N2 03 , which has the same composition as the / 3 amidocarboxamidobenzoic acid just described , is not identical but only isomeric with it , and I shall therefore designate it by the name of y amidocarboxamidobenzoic acid .
It crystallizes in white needles , which are almost insoluble in water , alcohol , and ether .
Action of strong Nitric Acid on the Isomeric Nitrouramidobenzoic Acids .
In the earlier part of this notice it was stated that three isomeric dinitro-uramidobenzoic acids w'ere produced by the action of strong nitric acid on uramidobenzoic acid , but that their separation could not be conveniently effected , owing to the great resemblance in their properties .
Any of these isomeric dinitro-acids , however , may be obtained in a pure state by dissolving the corresponding nitrouramidobenzoic acid in fuming nitric acid , free from nitrous acid .
On diluting the solution with water , the dinitro1872.1 Derivatives of Uramidob Acid .
acid is precipitated in the crystalline state .
It will be seen from the following description of their properties how closely they resemble one another .
a dinitrouramidobenzoic acid , C8II6 ( No )aNa 03.\#151 ; -It crystallizes in yellowish-white needles , which are very readily soluble in .alcohol or ether , but scarcely so in cold water .
On the addition of barium chloride to even a very dilute ammoniacal solution of the acid , a bright yellow precipitate is produced , consisting of very small nodules , which in their turn are built up of microscopic needles or plates .
|8 dinitrouramidobenzoic acid , C8 H6 ( No )a Na 03 , has the same crystalline form as the a acid , which it closely resembles , although it would seem to be somewhat less soluble in alcohol and ether .
Its barium salt is a yellow amorphous precipitate .
y dinitrouramidobenzoic acid , C8H6(N0a)aNa03.\#151 ; This acid crystallizes in yellowish-white plates or needles , which behave towards solvents in a manner similar to the a acid .
Its barium salt is obtained in long slender yellow needles , when a solution of the acid in ammonia is decomposed by barium chloride , and is somewhat more readily soluble than the corresponding salts formed by the two before-mentioned acids .
It can be readily understood that when an ammoniacal solution of either of these isomeric dinitro-acids is boiled for a considerable time , that it will be again reconverted into the corresponding mononitro-acid in a manner similar to that previously described as taking place with the mixture of the dinitro-acids:\#151 ; C8H6(N02)2N303 + HaO = a , f dinitrouramido- Water .
j3 , \ benzoic y { acid .
0 , H , ( N0 , )N,0 , + 1----\#151 ; V--------- a , f nitrouramido-/ 3 , \ benzoic y y acid .
nho3 Nitric acid .
Decomposition of the Isomeric Dinitrouramidobenzoic Acids on boiling their Aqueous Solution .
All three of the dinitro-acids are decomposed when their aqueous solutions are hoiled for a considerable time , gas being evolved and new acids formed , which have the composition C7 H6 N2 04 .
These three new acids , from their formula and properties , may be regarded as isomeric mononitro-derivatives of amidobenzoic acid , C7 H6 N2 04=C7 H4 ( N02 ) ( NH2 ) 02 , their method of formation being expressed in the following manner : C.H.N.O , = C , H , N1Oi .+ CO , + N^O .
Isomeric dinitro- Isomeric nitro- Carbonic Nitrous uramidobenzoic acids , amidobenzoic acids .
acid .
oxide .
The acid obtained in this manner from a dinitrouramidobenzoic acid , which I have called a nitroamidobenzoic acid , crystallizes in yellow needles j or prisms , which are only slightly soluble in cold water , and rather diffiMr .
P. Griess some [ Peb .
15 , cultly so in hot ; they dissolve readily in hot alcohol , hut scarcely at all in ether .
The barium salt forms yellowish-red needles , which are very readily soluble in water even in the cold .
Dried between filter-paper they were found to have the composition ( C7 H5 N2 04)2 , Ba+3H2 O. 3 nitroamidobenzoic acid is the name by which I have designated the acid obtained from ( 3 dinitrouramidobenzoic acid by the above-mentioned reaction .
It is only very slightly soluble in hot water , but rather easily go in boiling alcohol , from which it crystallizes on cooling in clusters of yellowisli-red glistening needles or small plates .
The dry acid , when gently heated , sublimes in shining rhombic plates without previously melting .
Its barium salt forms bright yellowish-red prisms , often well defined , which are slightly soluble even in boiling water .
Dried between filter-paper they have the composition ( C7H5N204)2 , Ba + 2H20 , the water of crystallization not being entirely expelled below 190 ' C. The y nitroamidobenzoic acid obtained from the y dinitrouramidobenzoic acid , by boiling its aqueous solution , is easily distinguished from its two before-mentioned isomerides , in being very readily soluble not only in hot water , but also in alcohol and ether , even in the cold .
It crystallizes in yellow prisms , which melt , when heated , to a brownish oil ; at a higher temperature it decomposes with slight explosion and evolution of yellowish vapours .
Its barium salt forms reddish-yellow needles , which are very easily soluble even in cold water , and when dried between folds of bibulous paper have the composition ( C7H3N204)2 , Ba+7II20 .
Action of Tin and Hydrochloric Acid on the Isomeric - ; benzoic Acids .
If the isomeric nitroamidobenzoic acids are gently warmed with tin and hydrochloric acid , they are reduced to the corresponding diamido-acids in the following manner:\#151 ; These diamido-acids are separated from the tin chloride , formed at the same time , by the ordinary methods .
a diamidobenzoic acid , C7H4(NH2)202 , crystallizes from its solution in boiling water , in which it is sparingly soluble , in minute but well-defined short prisms , which have a greyish tinge .
- It is remarkable for the extremely sparing solubility of its sulphate , C7H8N202 , SH204 , a compound crystallizing in white needles .
( 3diamidobenzoic acid crystallizes in pale yellow-coloured plates , which are very difficultly soluble in cold water , but rather readily so when it is hot .
Its sulphate has the formula [ C7H4 ( NH2)202]2 , SH204 , and is very sparingly soluble in hot water , although not so much so as the cor- C7H4(N02)(NH2)02+H6 = C7H4(NH2)202 -f 2H20 .
1872 .
] Derivatives of UrUmidobenzoic Acid .
17o 11 responding salt of the acid just described .
It is almost entirely deposited on cooling in white , soft , shining , almost oval-shaped plates .
* y diamidobenzoic acid crystallizes in long yellowish-white needles , whose solubility closely resembles that of the two other isomeric acids .
Its sul-i pjiate forms white six-sided tables or prisms , which , when dried in the air , i have the composition ( C7 Hg N2 02)2 , SH2 04+ 1|H2 O ; they are almost as I jnSoluble as the corresponding compound of the a diamido-acid .
When the solution of y diamidobenzoic acid in dilute hydrochloric acid is decomposed by ferric chloride , a brownish-red semicrystalline precipitate is obtained , consisting of a new acid , which , however , I have not at present more closely investigated .
Action of Nitrous Acid on the Isomeric Diamidobenzoic Acids .
In this reaction a remarkable difference is observed between the a diamidobenzoic acid on the one hand and ( 1 and y diamidobenzoic acids on the other .
When a diamidobenzoic acid is treated with a quantity of warm and moderately dilute hydrochloric acid , insufficient to dissolve the whole , and on cooling the filtered solution is mixed with one of sodium nitrite , a semisolid mass of crystals is formed .
These , after separation of the mother-liquor , are easily purified by crystallization from hot water , with the addition of a small quantity of animal charcoal .
The compound thus obtained forms long needles or small plates , which explode when heated in a dry state .
It is rather easily soluble in hot water , and by long boiling gradually decomposes , giving rise to a brown insoluble amorphous precipitate .
Curiously enough it does not possess acid properties , being insoluble both in ammonia and potassa ; whilst , on the contrary , it combines with the mineral acids , forming well-crystallized salts .
Its hydrochlorate forms six-sided plates , which are readily soluble .
Unfortunately I have not yet been able to establish the composition of this basic compound with certainty , although from a determination of the gold in its gold salt , which crystallizes in dark yellow needles , I believe it to have the composition indicated by the formula Cu H13 N " 04 .
Its formation , therefore , would take place in the following manner :\#151 ; 2(C , H , N,0 .
) + MHO , = C"H"MS 0 , + H^O .
a diamidobenzoio Nitrous acid .
New compound .
Water , acid .
It is necessary to mention that this basic compound is not formed when sodium nitrite acts upon a diamidobenzoic acid in the presence of free hydrochloric acid , instead of in the manner just described .
In this case a brisk evolution of nitrogen takes place , and after some time the yellow solution deposits an amorphous reddish-brown acid .
The behaviour of the two other isomeric diamidobenzoic acids under the circumstances previously mentioned is quite different to that of the a diamidobenzoic acid .
* When their solution in dilute hydrochloric acid Mr. P. Griess on some [ FefcJlS , is acted upon by sodium nitrate , , a white crystalline azo-acid immediately separates , and that whether the hydrochloric acid is in excess or not .
The azo-acid thus obtained from the / 3 diamidobenzoic acid crystallizes in short needles , which are soluble with difficulty in hot water , and scarcely at all in cold .
When heated in a dry state it melts and blackens , a small portion subliming , whilst the greatest part is decomposed , leaving behind a difficultly combustible carbonaceous residue .
The composition of this azo-acid corresponds with the formula C7 N3 02 .
Its barium salt has the composition ( C7H4N302)2 , Ba+4H20 , and crystallizes in very slender colourless needles , which dissolve readily in hot water , but only sparingly in cold .
# t The azo-acid prepared from the y diamidobenzoic acid , although isomeric with that just described , differs considerably from it , crystallizing in long hair-like silky needles , which , on drying , shrink together to a felt-like mass .
It is rather more easily soluble in hot water than the corresponding a acid , and when gently heated melts to a yellow oil , partial sublimation taking* place at the same time ; at a higher temperature it decomposes with slight explosion .
Its barium salt crystallizes in white needles , which are rather difficultly soluble in hot water , and very sparingly so in cold .
Its composition is expressed by the formula ( 07H4N302)2 , Ba-}~ 2HaQM The formation of these two azo-acids may be thus expressed:\#151 ; C7H8N202 + NH02 s___________ %--------i--/ 3,1 diamidoben- Nitrous y J zoic acids .
acid .
= C7 H. N3 02 + 2H30 .
\ azo-acids .
Water .
y J I may add that both these acids contain water of crystallization , which is expelled at 100 ' C. , and at the same time call attention to their great stability , in which respect they differ very remarkably from most other azocompounds .
Finally , I would remark that three other compounds , having the same formula as these azo-acids , are already known , to which I gave the names diazobenzimide , diazodracylimide , and diazosalylimide* .
They were obtained by the action of ammonia on the perbromides of the corresponding diazo-acids , as shown in the equation\#151 ; C7H4NaOa , HBr , Bra + 4NH3 = ( C7 H4 Na 02)^ | N + 3NH4Br .
Perbro-I " diazobenzoic acid , Ammonia .
Diazobenzimide , Ammonium mides-| diazodracylic acid , diazodracylimide , ' bromide , of ... |_diazosalylic acid .
diazosalylimide .
These bodies also form saline compounds with metals , but in their reactions , as well as in other respects , differ entirely from the azo-acids just described , rendering it certain that they have a different constitution from them .
* Zeits .
Chem. 1867 , p. 164 .
1872 .
] Derivatives of Uramido Acid .
177 Decomposition of the Isomeric Diamidobenzoic Acids at a high temperature .
When either of the diamidobenzoic acids is submitted to dry distillation in a retort , it splits up into carbonic acid , which is evolved , and a yellow oil , which crystallizes in the neck of the retort , thus :\#151 ; c7h8n2o2 = c6h8n2 + co2 .
The compound C6 H8 N2 , obtained in this manner from the a diamidobenzoic acid , is moderately soluble in hot water , and crystallizes therefrom in reddish-coloured scales , melting at 140 ' C. It exhibits the character of a base , and forms crystalline salts with the mineral acids .
It can readily be seen that the composition of this base is the same as that of the plieny-lene diamines described by Dr. Hofmann* , C6 Ha N2=C6 H4 ( N H2)2 ; and its properties leave no doubt that it is identical with one of the latter , namely , that formed by the action of reducing agents on the nitraniline prepared from substituted anilides .
The compound C6 H8 N2 , obtained by the dry distillation of / 3 diamidobenzoic acid , differs not only from the base just described , but also from the phenylene diamine which Dr. Hofmann obtained by the reduction of dinitrobenzol .
It is easily soluble in hot water , and crystallizes therefrom in white rectangular four-sided tables or plates , which usually have a reddish tinge .
It melts at 99 ' C. , and boils at about 252 ' 0 .
It is likewise possessed of basic properties , and must be regarded as a new isomeric modification of phenylene diamine .
The sulphate of this base crystallizes in pearly scales , the composition of which corresponds to the formula C6 H4 ( N H2)2 , SH204+ l\#163 ; Ha O , and which readily part with their water of crystallization at a temperature a little above 100 ' C. Its platinum-salt is precipitated in the form of brownish-red needles .
When ferric chloride is added to a solution of this base in hydrochloric acid , ruby-red needles immediately form , consisting of the hydrochloride of a new base .
In a free state the latter forms bright yellow microscopic needles , which are almost insoluble in all neutral solvents .
I have reason to believe that it has the formula C12H10N4 , and that its method of formation is as follows:\#151 ; 2(C.H , Na ) + O , = C"H10N , + 3H20 .
N " v~ ^ s ' ' " \#166 ; v ^ r New phenylene New base .
Water , diamine , As one or other of the phenylene diamines just mentioned is obtained when the a or / 3 diamidobenzoic acid is submitted to dry distillation , I fully expected that the y diamidobenzoic acid , under the same circumstances , would give rise to a third phenylene diamine , and that this would be identical with that derived from dinitrobenzol .
Strange to say , this is not the case , the phenylene diamine obtained by the dry distillation of y * Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xii .
p. 639 .
178 On some Derivatives of Acid .
[ Feb. 15 , diamidobenzoic acid being precisely the same as that produced in the same way from ft diamidobenzoic acid . . . . .
_ The subjoined Table shows the characteristic difference that exists be-tween the melting-points and boiling-points of the three isomeric phen , l.M diamines at present known : Fusing-point .
Boiling-point .
Phenylene diamine from nltroacetanilid and j from u diamidobenzoic acid ... ... ... ... ... .J 140 ' 267 ' Phenylene diamine from / 3 and y diamido-1 benzoic acids ... ... ... ... ... . .
' Phenylene diamine from dinitrobenzol . . . .
99 ' 63 ' 252 ' 287 ' Besides the three isomeric diamidobenzoic acids which I have described in the course of this paper , a fourth acid exists , having the same compo-sition , namely , the diamidobenzoic acid obtained by Dr. Voit* by reducing ordinary dinitrobenzoic acid with sulphuretted hydrogen , and which I have since further investigated " I* .
I propose , at present , to retain for this the simple name diamidobenzoic acid .
It is distinguished from the other diamidobenzoic acids , not only by its physical properties , but especially in not yielding a volatile organic base when submitted to dry distillation , becoming , on the contrary , completely carbonized with simultaneous evolution of ammonia .
With nitrous acid also it behaves diffeiently , being converted into an insoluble amorphous acid of a reddish-broiB colour .
' .
j| When it is considered that each of the four diamidobenzoic acids at present known is derived , at least in a certain sense , from ordinary a amidobenzoic acid , there is reason to suppose that the acids which are isomeric with amidobenzoic acid , namely amidodracylic acid and an-thranilic acid , would , under favourable circumstances , give rise to four new diamido-acids ; so that it is obvious that at least twelve isomeric diamidobenzoic acids may be conceived to exist .
In the preceding notice I have confined myself to the consideration ol some of the most important chemical and physical properties of the substances described ; but I hope to be able to lay before the Society at i future time some account of their rational constitution , and of the causes which produce the various isomerisms .
* Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. xcix .
p. 100 .
t Ibid , vol , cxxviii .

