134 Mr. G. Bidder .
On the Flash-shaped Ectoderm [ June 16 , of the coelom , divided into right and left halves by median septa , each half communicating with the exterior by means of its own collar canal ; on the posterior face of this cavity is an ectodermal thickening , which corresponds in position with the nerve-plate of Cephalodiscus and the nerve-tube of Balanoglossus .
The collar cavities are continued upwards into the tentacles , and surround the month .
From the pharynx a short diverticulum is given off upwards , which is continuous with a rod-like structure , apparently half cellular , half gelatinoid , which : lies in .
the line along which the median posterior septum of the collar , meets the nearly vertical septum between proboscis and collar cavities .
It thus corresponds in origin , structure , and position with the notochord of Oephalodiscus .
The trunk contains the greater part of the alimentary canal .
Its body cavity , as in the other Hemichordata , appears to be completely shut off from the paired cavity of the collar .
The only part of the intestine calling for remark is a short semicircular diverticulum , which occurs also in Gephalodiscus .
The points in which Bhabdoplepra differs from both the other Hemichordata are purely negative , viz. , the absence of a proboscis pore or pores , and the absence of gill-slits ; the points of agreement are so striking that it is impossible to separate the three organisms .
A more fully illustrated paper on the subject will shortly be published .
DESCRIPTION OE FIGURES .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Longitudinal section , taken slightly to one side of the middle line , so as to avoid the median septa of the collar region .
The dotted line e marks the ventral limit of the collar .
FlO .
2.\#151 ; Transverse section along the line c\#151 ; d in fig. 1 , through proboscis stalk and upper part of collar , and cutting the base of a tentacle of one side .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Transverse section along the line a\#151 ; b in fig. 1 , showing the external opening of one , the internal opening of the other , collar canal .
In all three figures the mesoderm is represented by a thick line , the ectoderm and endoderm by thin lines .
The gelatinoid part of the notochord is marked by cross-hatching ; its cellular part has not been distinguished from ectoderm or endoderm ; b.c.1 , prae-oral coelom , or proboscis cavity ; b.c.'l , coelom of the collar divided hv the median septa into right and left halves ; b.c.3 , coelom of the trunk ; c.c. , canals leading from the collar cavities to the exterior .
XII .
" On the Flask-shaped Ectoderm and Spongoblasts in one of the Keratosa .
" By George Bidder .
Communicated by Adam Sedgwick , M.A. , F.R.S. Received June 15 , 1892 .
In my " Note on Excretion in Sponges , " published by the Society in the ' Proceedings ' of this year , I said : " Both from my own observations on an Aplysilla ( ?
) . . . .
and from- a study of 1892 .
] and Spongoblasts in one of the Keratosa .
135 Schulze 's detailed description ... .
particularly in I am persuaded that the ectoderm cells of the horny sponges are of the same form and character as those in the Homoccela .
" By apiece of good fortune I am now able to state that this is so .
In a sponge found at Naples , which appears to me to correspond fairly with 0 .
Schmidt 's Cacospongia scalar is , the ectodermal elements are quite plainly to be seen even with a low power ; indeed in the specimen examined their arrangement is more regular , invariable , and easy to observe than in any sponge that I have yet investigated .
Fig. 1 .
Ectoderm Cells of Cacospongia , sp. The cell-bodies are shown focussed through the silver-lines ; the neck of each cell lies towards the upper part of the figure ; it is at the same focus as the silver area , in the middle of which its granules lie on the outer surface .
Dilute osmic acid , followed by nitrate of potash and nitrate of silver .
The cells in question are of a flask-shaped form , very slender , elongated , and thin-necked .
I have been able most successfully to demonstrate their relations to the silver areas ( fig. 1 ) , to prove without doubt that they open on the surface in the centre of those areas and not in any interstices between them , to prove also equally without doubt that each silver area has no nucleus connected with it except the one lying in the base of the pendent cell body ( " subdermal gland-cell " of authors ) , and thus to justify completely the inability of Schulze and other trustworthy investigators to find nuclei at a more superficial level , where the " flat epithelium''was usually supposed to exist .
In this sponge the spongoblasts of the primary fibres form a continuous tissue with the ectoderm cells and resemble them indistin-guishably both in form and character ; a brief discussion of previous observation on this point will be found in the paper already quoted .
It is nearly impossible\#151 ; at least , for my inexperience\#151 ; to give the effect of a three-dimensional preparation except by a most elaborate drawing , but the outlines given in figs. 2 and 3 will render some idea of the appearances on which I base this statement .
The impression 136 Mr. G. Bidder .
On the Flask-shaped Ectoderm [ June 16 , Fig. 2 .
Protruding* Horn-fibre .
Exterior .
Cuticle .
Horn-fibre out of focus within the body of the sponge .
Ectoderm Cells at the apex of a eonulus of Cacospongia ( Focus near the surface of the skin .
) The shading is diagrammatic ; the dark shading indicates apparently naked horn-fibre , the light shading horn-fibre covered with living tissue .
Fig. 3 .
Protruding Horn-fibre .
Horn-fibre ' ' within the bod ; of the sponge .
Cuticle .
Spcngoblasts near the apex of a conulus of Cacospongia sp. ( Focus near the profile of the fibre .
Slightly smaller scale than fig. 2 .
) Figs. 2 and 3 are from the same preparation , prepared with osmic acid , piero-carmine , and glycerine .
given is that the apex of a conulus is a locus of attraction for ecto-deim cells , and that the fibre is nothing more than the concentrated 1892.1 and Spongoblasts in of the Keratosa .
137 cuticle of a large number of such cells poured out ( in this sponge ) around an intrusive foreign object .
I referred ( loc. cit. ) , as if well known , to the " hexagonal markings of the homy fibre .
" I cannot , however , find any mention of them in the literature of the subject , except by Polejaeff ( ' Keratosa , ' p. 70 ) .
As he there describes them as an exceptional structure , and as I find them not nearly so easily to be made out in Cacospongia as in Aplysilla , * it is possible that they have hitherto escaped notice .
They are fine black lines , having the exact appearance of the network on the surface of an epithelium , and I regard it as beyond doubt that they mark the lines of contact between the expanded secreting ends of the spongoblasts .
An interpretation of the histology of Ascetta clathrus , differing considerably from mine , appears in the * Zoologischer Anzeiger , ' No. 391 , for this year .
It would be under-valuing Mr. Minchin 's researches to attempt serious comment on them until I have had the opportunity of re-examining my preparations in the light of his conclusions .
How far his theory of a contractile ectoderm may be applicable to such an extreme form as that found in Cac is a matter demanding the gravest consideration.- !
* The newly-established points on which we find ourselves in agreement are : ( 1 ) The pores of Ascetta clathrus are composed each of a single , nucleate , perforated cell ; these cells have by various authors been mistaken for mesoderm cells .
( 2 ) The ectoderm is , in.life , in a large part composed of cells which are roughly " [ " -shaped in section , the nucleus lying at the base of the stalk of the " J* .
On a minor and not very novel point we are in agreement as to there being , at any rate commonly , at least one vacuole in the distal part of the collar cell , frequently containing shapeless particles .
As to our differences , I am undecided whether Minchin 's mesodermal " potato-shaped wandering cell , of greenish-yellow colour , " is what I * The determination of these sponges must be taken with reserve ; the fear of angels to tread among Keratose genera makes me postpone as far as possible mj first step !
Both species are found in the Bay of Naples .
The " Cacospongia " is firm , massive , somewhat incrusting , conulate , with conspicuous antler-like primary fibres , heavily cored with foreign bodies ; the delicate secondaries show in their axis fine black spots ; skin black , pulp white .
" Aplysilla " corresponds in general description with Schmidt 's Aplysina aeroph the yellow crust bearing vertical twig-like prominences , mostly supported by a single fibre ; under unhealthy conditions , the living part of the prominences contracts up the fibre like a bud .
In the axis of the fibre\#151 ; at least in one specimen\#151 ; I have observed a row of indubitable cells , amoeboid in appearance j presumably they are what Lendenfeld has described as " spongoklasts .
" t It is obvious that the presence , as in this sponge , of a fairly strong cuticle , even though it be " elastic " ( Schulze ) , renders it much more difficult to assume that the form of the cells has been produced by their contraction .
( July 15.\#151 ; The continuity with the spongoblasts greatly increases the difficulty of such an hypothesis .
) Ectoderm and Spongoblas Keratosa .
[ June 16 call a Metschnikoff cell or not .
I consider the natural form of active collar cells , in this as in other sponges , as being more separated in their upper parts than in his figures , a large part of the surface of the cell being washed by the water ; this area behind the collar I have always regarded as the ingestive surface .
Mr. Minchin believes that he has obtained evidence that the ectoderm cells really push their way to the endoderm ; holding the views I do as to excretion , I shall be very glad if re-investigation causes me to admit this correction .
Apart from our common ground , I have made the indigo-carmine experiments with which the Society has been acquainted , and Minhhin has made his valuable observations on the changes in form of the epithelium surrounding the oscnla of Ascetta .#Whatever weight should be attached to these two factors in deciding the meaning and function of the flask-shaped epithelium , I wish to establish the undoubted presence of such a structure in , and presumably in all Porifera .
Examining Cacospongia , and comparing Merejkovsky 's figure of Halisarca , any one will be CQnvinced that this is the true explanation of the puzzling appearances seen by various authors on the outer surface of other sponges\#151 ; I would take as examples , among very many , Schulze on Halisarca Dujardini and Chondrosia reniformis , Polejaeff on Janthella , Sollas on Stelletta Normani and Isops Phlegrcei , Vosmaer on Tentorium and the larva of Myxilla .
Vosmaer 's figure of Myxilla ( fig. 8 , PI .
XIY ) , unites with MetschnikofPs of the young HalLsarca , to show that the flask-shaped cells appear at the earliest stages , and are probably formed by direct metamorphosis from the columnar epithelium of the free larva .
On the other hand , the direct observations of flat epithelium on the outer surface are strikingly few.f I hold that it may take rank as an established fact that in all groups of sponges the flask-shaped epithelium does occur .
It must be recognised that the structure we are to expect to find on the exterior of any sponge is a zone of hyaline tissue traversed by necks which unite the centre of each silver area to the nucleus and cell-body pertaining to it .
This , whatever be its physiological explanation , is the structure most commonly to be met with , and not a flat epithelium , such as clothes the canals .
And I believe that these cells are excretory , and identical with the spongoblasts .
* I should say that I can support the figure he gives as being an accurate representation of transitions in form of epithelial cells to be met with in all the Calcarea .
I have hitherto ascribed to them an entirely different significance\#151 ; that where the wall is thin , the special elongated flask-shaped form of cell is not required for excretion .
t The descriptions of flat epithelium\#151 ; generally flagellate\#151 ; by R. v. Lendenfeld are numerous and detailed .
I attach no credit to them .
1892 .
] Con tributions to the Anatomy of Fishes .
( The page given is the one cited in the text ) Schmidt , O. 1862 .
Schulze , F. E ... ... . .
1877 .
Merejkoveky , C. de . .
1878 .
Metschnikoff , E. ... \#187 ; 1879 .
Sollas , W. J 1880 .
Polejaeff , N 1884 .
Yosmaer , GL C. J ... .
1885 .
1889 .
Minelnn , E. A. . . . .
# 1892 .
Bidder , Gh P 1892 .
* Die Spongien des Adriat .
Meeres/ pp. 25 , 27 .
" Die Glattung Halisarca / ' 1 Zeits .
Wiss .
Zool./ vol. 28 , p. 39 . ? . .
; U f .
" Die Family der Chondrosidce , " ' Zeits .
Wiss .
Zuol./ vol. 29 , p.102 .
" Sponges de la Mer Blanch / ' 4 Mem. Acad. St. Petersbourg/ vol. 26 , 7 , p. 32 .
IC Spong .
Studien , " 'Zeits .
Wiss .
Zoo !
./ vol. 32 , Plate 21 , fig. 1 .
1 Annals and Mag./ vol. 5 , pp. 134 , 398 .
* Report on the Keratosa ' ( " Challenger/ ' pp. 39,40 ) .
The Sponges of the " Willem Barents " Expedition/ p. 19 .
" Note on the Metamorphosis of the Sponge Larva , " 'Tijd .
der Nederlandsehe Dierkundige Vereeni-ging/ Plate 14 , fig. 8 .
" Note on the Histology of Leucosolenia ( Ascetta ) clathrus " ' Zool. Anz./ No. 391 .
" Note on Excretion in Sponges/ ' 'Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 51 , p. 474 .
XIII .
" Contributions to the Anatomy of Fishes .
II .
The Air-Bladder and Weberian Ossicles in the Siluroid Fishes .
" By T. W. Bridge , M.A. , Professor of Zoology in the Mason College , Birmingham , and A. C. Haddon , M.A. , Professor of Zoology in the Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Communicated by Professor Newton , F.R.S. Received June 9 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) An abstract of the first part of this memoir , which dealt with the structure and relations of the air-bladder and Weber 's ossicles in the Siluridae , was published in the Proceedings of this Society three years ago ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , 'vol .
46 , 1889 , pp. 309\#151 ; 328 ) .
The present contribution is a discussion of the physiology not only of this remarkable mechanism , but of the air-bladder in general .
There is a strong , a 'priori probability that the Weberian mechanism is physiologically related to one of the several functions that have been ascribed to the auditory organ or to the air-bladder , but to which of them is a question by no means easy to answer .
A preliminary difficulty to be encountered is the complex physiological character of the two organs , and , apart from our imperfect knowledge of the physiology of the several functions assigned to each , and especially in the case of the auditory organ of Fishes , a further difficulty is

