188 Mr. J. B. Hannay on [ Feb. 26 critical point , the sudden fall in volume corresponding to the boiling line has disappeared , and although the curve does not coincide with the air curve , it is regular and shows no sign of liquefaction having occurred .
Our experiments were made at temperatures further removed from the critical point than this , and as no sudden change in solubility could be detected in passing from the liquid state to these high temperatures , we conclude that , in these experiments , we have further proof of the perfect continuity of the liquid and gaseous states , and also a complete proof of the solubility of solids in gases .
II .
" On the Artificial Formation of the Diamond .
" By J. B.j Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor G.l Gr .
8tokes , D.C.L. , \amp ; c. , Sec. R.S. Received February 19 , -1880 .
( Preliminary Notice .
) While pursuing my researches into the solubility of solids in gases , I noticed that many bodies , such as silica , alumina , and oxide of zinc , which are insoluble in water at ordinary temperatures , dissolve to a very considerable extent when treated with water-gas at a very high pressure .
It occurred to me that a solvent might be found for carbon ; and as gaseous solution nearly always yields crystalline solid on withdrawing the solvent or lowering its solvent power , it seemed probable that the carbon might be deposited in the crystalline state .
After a large number of experiments , it was found that ordinary carbon , such as charcoal , lampblack , or graphite , were not affected by the most probable solvents I could think of , chemical action taking the place of solution .
A curious reaction , however , was noticed , which seemed likely to yield carbon in the nascent state , and so allow of its being easily dissolved .
When a gas containing carbon and hydrogen is heated under pressure in presence of certain metals its hydrogen is attracted by the metal , and its carbon left free .
This , as Professor Stokes has suggested to me , may be explained by the discovery of Professors Living and Dewar , that hydrogen has at very high temperatures a very strong affinity for certain metals , notably magnesium , forming extremely stable compounds therewith .
When the carbon is set free from the hydrocarbon in presence of a stable compound containing nitrogen , the whole being near a red heat and under a very high pressure , the carbon is so acted upon by the nitrogen compound that it is obtained in the clear , transparent form of the diamond .
The great difficulty lies in the construction of an |9L .
Artificial Formation of the Diamond .
189 closing vessel strong enough to withstand the enormous pressure , nd high temperature , tubes constructed on the gun-barrel principle with a wrought iron coil ) , of only half an inch bore and four inches External diameter , being torn open in nine cases out of ten .
The carbon obtained in the successful experiments is as hard as Latural diamond , scratching all other crystals , and it does not affect Polarised light .
I have obtained crystals with curved faces belonging to the octahedral form , and diamond is the only substance crysta -hsing in this manner .
The crystals burn easily on thm platinum-foil over a good blowpipe , and leave no residue , and after two days Immersion in hydrofluoric acid they show no sign of dissolving , even when boiled .
On heating a splinter in the electric arc , it turned uiact__a very characteristic reaction of diamond .
f Lastly , a little apparatus was constructed for effecting a combustion of the crystals and determining their composition .
The ordinary organic analysis method was used , but the diamond crystals were laid on a thin piece of platinum-foil , and this was ignited by an electric current , and the combustion conducted in pure oxygen .
The result | obtained was , that the sample ( 14 mgrms .
) contained 97*85 per cent. of carbon , a very close approximation , considering the small quanta y at my disposal .
The apparatus and all analyses will be fully described in a future paper .
* Received February 25 , 1880 .
Extract from a letter from Mr. Hannay , dated 23rd February : " I forgot , in the preliminary notice , to mention that , the specific gravity of the diamond I have obtained ranges as high as 3*5 ; tins being determined by flotation , using a mixture of bromide and fluoride of arsenic .
" Presents , February 5 , 1880 .
Transactions .
Haarlem:\#151 ; Societe Hollandaise des Sciences .
Archives hteer-landaises .
Tome XIV .
Livr- 3\#151 ; 5 .
8vo .
Harlem 1879 .
The Society .
Helsingfors:\#151 ; Finska Vetenskapssocietet .
Helsningsskrift af Otto E. A. Hjelt .
8vo .
Helsingfors 1877 .
The Society .
Innsbruck:\#151 ; Naturwissenschaftlich-medizinischer Verein .
Berichte .
Jahrg .
IX .
8vo .
Innsbruck 1879 .
The Union .

