IV .
" On the Development of certain Infusoria .
" By J. SAMUELSON , Esq. Communicated by WILLJITAM CRooK1ES , Esq. Received November 8 , 1865 .
( Abstract .
) The chief object of this paper is to account in some degree for the successive appearance , in organic infusicns , of what seem to be distinct species of Protozoa rising in the developmental scale ; but the author commences with some general remarks on the origin of these animalcules , nnd states , among other conclusions at which he has arrived , his disbelief in spontaneous generation as it is understood by Pouchet and his disciples .
Proceeding to the immediate purpose of the paper , the author first refers to the well-known fact , that when an infusion of decaying organic matter is exposed to the air , the types of Protozoa which first appear in it are the so-called Monads , and occasionally the particles of organized protoplasm known as Amcebew , but that these in a few days in great part disappear , and are succeeded by ciliated infusoria , such as Ifolpoda , Cyclidium , Glaucoma , and sometimes Vorticella-oftentimes followed in their turn by other types , as Owytrichum , Etzplotes , Kerona , &amp;c. This phenomenon , he remarks , has been accounted for in different ways ; but his own observations and experiments justify , in his opinion , the conclusion that the monadine form which first appears is the earlier or larval stage of at least one , if not more of the ciliated infusoria , into which it becomes metamorphosed in the progress of development .
In the first place , he states that he and Dr. Balbiani have observed the regular occurrence of monads belonging to the species of Cerecomonas fttsiaformis or acuminata of Dujardin , in pure distilled water which has been exposed some time to the atmosphere .
These , or their zoospores , would seem to be wafted by the air along with particles of dust to which they cling .
They readily appear when dust is sifted into distilled water , and in this way have been obtained from different localities at home , and , along with other forms , in dust shaken from rags imported from various distant parts of thg world .
An experiment is then related , conducted by the author during the hot weather of last summer , in which a comparison was made between the animalcules which made their appearance in a vessel of pure distilled water exposed to the ai ; , and those successively appearing in distilled water to which extract of lettuce had been added .
In both liquids CercomonadeS speedily showed themselves ; but whilst they remained unchanged in form in the pure water till near the end of the experiment ( a period of about three weeks ) , they entirely disappeared from the lettuce-infusion in six or seven days , and were succeeded by ciliated infusoria .
The fusiform body of the Cercomonas bears a long whip-like cilium at its anterior end , and a short hair-like caudal process at the opposite extremity .
Now this characteristic figure was retained by the monads in the distilled water ; they continued to grow larger during the progress of the observations , but without change of form ; only , towards the end , some of them lost their caudal process , and fixed themselves by their anterior cilium , and others , retaining both appendages , became fixed by the caudal one as on a pedicle ; finally , on exposure to undue heat and light , they shrank up , and then sometimes their soft substance was ejected from its enclosure and assumed the aspect and characters of an Amoeba .
On the other hand , the Cercomonades of the lettuce-infusion in a few days lost both appendages , and , changing their manner of swimming , began to move through the water like ordinary ciliated infusoria .
Moreover a few days later these animalcules , on being fed with indigo , readily ingested it , whereas , although that substance was supplied freely to the Cercomonades , it was never observed within their bodies .
Figures to illustrate these phenomena accompany the paper .
From these observations , the author infers that the Cercomonades are larvme or earlier forms of the ciliated animalcules which succeed them ; and he concludes his paper by remarking that , whilst he has confidence in the general accuracy of his observations , and in the views deduced from them , nevertheless , seeing the difficulties which attend such observations , and their consequent liability to error , he should be pleased were the same experiments repeated by others , in order to the confirmation or , if need be , the correction of his statements .

