140 Mr. R. C. Punnett .
On the Composition and thelial cells by mitotic division in the earlier stages .
In the latter respect it tends to agree with Belloy , * who , however , describes active multiplication of these cells , and does not appear to recognise the proliferation of the cells of the theca interna .
On the other hand the foregoing account is entirely opposed to the views expressed since the publication of Sobotta 's work by His , f Koellikerj Nagel , % Clark , S Rabl , || and Doering , H who all more or less clearly describe the corpus luteum as an entirely connective-tissue structure .
It remains to be added that the work is being carried on in the Zoological Department of the University of Edinburgh .
[ Postscript , February 22.\#151 ; Since writing the above account of the development of the corpus luteum , I have obtained a 16-hour stage from a sheep which was an unusually late breeder .
The characters of the young corpus luteum at this stage are intermediate between those of the 7-hour and 24-hour stages .
The inward growth of the connective-tissue cells has begun .
The sections pass through the point of rupture , which is widely open .
] " On the Composition and Variations of the Pelvic Plexus m Acanthiasvulgaris : ' By R. C. Punnett , B.A. , Gonville and Cains College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. H. Gadow , E.R.S. Received February 16 , \#151 ; Read March 7 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) The facts recorded in this paper may be summarised as follows ( 1 ) Considerable variation occurs in Acanthias vulgaris with regard to\#151 ; ( a ) The serial number of the girdle-piercing nerves ; ( b)The number of the post-girdle nerves ; S Clark , " Ursprung , Wacliatum und End des Corpus luteum , \amp ; c. , Arch. .
Anat u Physiol. , Anafc .
Abth .
, 1898 .
TT , i ii || Eabl , " Beitrag sir Histologie des Eierstocks , " \amp ; c. , Anat .
Hefte , to .
, " yWto* .
z , ,r streitfraee " ber die Bild0"g \lt ; 1\lt ; '8 Cot1\gt ; " lu"ram " 'Anat .
Anz./ vol. 16 , 1899 .
Variations of the Pelvic Plexus Acanthias vulgaris .
141 ( c ) The number of nerves forming the collector j 00 The number and position of the nerve canals j ( e ) The number of the fin rays ; ( / ) The number of the whole vertebra .
( 2 ) Asymmetry occurred in an appreciable number of cases .
( 3 ) Differences ^ occurred in the two sexes on the following points : The position of the girdle is more rostral in the male than in the female .
The post-girdle fin innervation area is greater in the male than in the female , otving to the development of the mixipterygium .
( 4 ) The female is , on the whole , more variable than the male .
( 5 ) A well-marked correlation exists between\#151 ; ( a ) The position of the girdle and the number of collector nerves ; ( b ) The position of the girdle and the number of post-girdle nerves ; ( c ) The position of the girdle and the number of whole vertebrae .
( 6 ) No correlation was found between the number of the fin rays and the number of fin nerves .
( 7 ) At certain stages in ontogeny the number of collector nerves is greater than in the adult .
( 8 ) At certain stages in ontogeny the number of post-girdle nerves is greater than in the adult .
The most caudal two or three of these form a posterior collector\#151 ; a structure which is never found in the adult .
The facts recorded have been used as criteria between the two rival theories of limb origin with the following results :_ ( 1 ) To explain the variations on the side-fold excalation theory , it must be assumed that excalation of segments is going on in the collector and pre-collector areas whilst , at the same time , intercalation is taking place in the post-girdle area ; or , in other words , that the portion of the vertebral column in front of the girdle is tending to split up into fewer segments , whilst simultaneously that portion behind the girdle is tending to become divided into more segments .
Leaving on one side the improbability of two contiguous portions of the vertebral column undergoing at the same time two opposite processes , an examination of the number of whole vertebra associated with different positions of the girdle lends practically no support to the view that intercalation is going on in this area .
( 2 ) On the side-fold excalation theory , an explanation of the variations in the position and number of the nerve canals of the girdle , and of the occasional instances of asymmetry , necessitates the assumption M 2 142 Sir Norman Lockyer .
that the pelvic girdle in different specimens is not homologous\#151 ; an assumption which at present seems unjustifiable .
( 3 ) The different variations observed are not discordant with the view that the limb is capable of migrating along the body , on which view it must be supposed that a secondary rostral migration has followed a primary caudal one .
Moreover , such a view receives confirmation from the existence of a posterior collector and of a more extensive anterior collector in certain embryonic stages .
" Further Observations on Nova Persei .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received and Read March 7 , 1901 .
[ Plate 1 .
] Since the preliminary note on this star was communicated to the Royal Society on February 28th , observations have been possible on the nights of February 28th , March 1st , 3rd , and 5th , and twenty-four photographs of the spectrum have been taken with the instruments before detailed .
It may be stated generally that the light is slowly waning .
On February 28th the star was only slightly brighter than a Persei .
On March 1st it was estimated as about equal to a Persei , about 2 0 magnitude .
When it was again visible on the evening of March 3rd , it was distinctly less bright than / 3 Persei , and its magnitude probably near 2'5 ; on the 5tli its estimated magnitude was 2 i. The above refers to the visual brightness .
A photograph of the region occupied by the Nova on March 3rd showed it to be photographically brighter than a Persei .
General Description of the Spectrum .
The photographs show that the bright hydrogen lines are successively feebler as the ultra-violet is approached , and the whole of the series of hydrogen lines have during the past week become relatively brighter with respect to the remaining lines and the continuous spectrum .
The spectrum extends far into the ultra-violet .
Among the changes which have taken place in the visible part of the spectrum , it may be mentioned that while the lines of hydrogen have become relatively brighter during the past week , the remaining lines with the possible exception of the prominent one at A 5169 , have become distinctly dimmer .
There has also been a diminution of the intensity of the continuous spectrum .
The line , m the yellow , the identity of which has not yet been definitely determined , has gr ac ua decreased in intensity with the diminution of brightness of the star .

