]\gt ; with spread over the surface of ; the tension of the composite surface so formed is less than that of pure , otherwise spreading would not When the film of A has become sufficiently thick two independent surfaces are formed , one of pure , the ) the interface between A and B. .
these respectively by and the energy of the two for each ?
unit of the oliginal surface of pure is and this quantity is not affected by further addition of A. Therefore in the spreading of A upon we have , as the limits of the change of sm.face energy , and In an earlier paper*I gave reasons for believing that the changes in the value of between these limits depend mainly upon the chemical constitution of A. Between the limits and , lies a series of values when A is not present in mass .
The phenomena over this are complex , therefore , in order to obtain a simpler presentation of the influence of chemical constitution it is necessary to have A as well as present in mass .
The equation then reduces to the simple form .
It is with measurements of the quantity that we are concerned in this paper .
Following Dupre ' we may write , ( 2 ) in which is the done per nnit of area of interface by the attraction of A for when a surface of A is allowed to approach normally and touch a surface of B. Since the quantity is the total work expended in forming unit area of interface by the molecular forces which operate between A and it follows that evidence of the influence of chemical constitution upon surface must be looked for in a comparison of this quantity when different fluids A form an interface with a constant fluid 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , , vol. 86 , p. 610 .
orie Mecanique .
Chaleur , ' Paris , 1869 , p. 369 .
See also Lord Rayleigh , ' Phil. Mag 1890 , [ 5 ] , vol. 30 , p. 461 .
Putting in equation ( 3 ) we see is ) gain in surface energy per degree of temperature .
An equation precisely to for an interface would have as its zero of tempersture , not the critical points of the pure fluids A and , but the temperature at which A and become completely miscible .
This ature is unknown .
the pairs of substances used ; an equation for ) interface may , however , be derived fro equations ( and ( 3 ) , namely Wied .
Annal .
, vol. 27 , p. 452 .
' Phil. Trans 1893 , , p. 647 .
previously cleansed with sulphuric and chromic acids and washed out with distilled water , was dipped into the lower layer ( distilled water ) and enough ayer , ontents whowed slowly trops which wountedfluid drawn uoint oeing raised spper while .
of fluid left the tube .
The operation was repeated with this .
result:\mdash ; Temperature , .
Tabe 1 .
Capacity , number of drops , 44 , Tube 2 , bent at angles , was next filled with the upper layer ( oleic acid ) and drops allowed to form and float up when the point was immersed in the layer ( water ) .
Tube 2 ; capacity , .
No. of drops , Tube 1 was then cleaned , dried , filled with oleic acid at and a series of 10 drops allowed to fall into a weighed stoppered weighing bottle .
Weight of 10 drops , .
Mean , Loss of weight by evaporation , determined by control experiment , From these data we now have to calculate the quantities and .
The formula frequently used to compute the surface tension from ) the weight of a drop delivered by a tubs is , when is the weight of the drop and the radius of the tube ; but his formula gives little more than half the true surface tension .
The of the drop cannot be calculated from statical consideration : the detachment of the drop is a dynamical effect .
complete solution of the dynamical problem is impracticable .
It was attempted by Dupre ' the argument has been restated by Lord Rayleigh , who found the formula to be a close approximation for thinwalled tubes .
The tubes used by myself had the following dimensions at the orifice:\mdash ; No. 1 .
External radius , cm .
Internal radius , No. 2 .
, , , , , , , , , , , , .
cit. , p. 327 .
Mag 1899 , [ 5 ] , , p. 321 .
Returning to the actual experiment , when the lower layer forms drops in the upper layer since water wets the glass of the capillary tube they detach themselves from the whole face of the end of the tube , therefore is here the ! .
external radius or cm .
But when oleic acid is delivered into water by tube 2 it does not wet the walls and the drops are detached from the lumen , and is the internal radius or cm .
When oleic acid is delivered from tube 1 in air , however , it wets the walls and the external radius must be used .
We therefore have : Tube 2Tube 1 Mean number of drops , Mean , Tube 1 .
Weight of one drop of oleic acid in air , Rigorous circumspection is necessary both in the handling of the water , and of the other fluids , and in their preparation .
The effect of a trace of impurity is hardly to be credited .
Cyclohexane , a saturated hydrocarbon , does not spread upon water .
In some of it per cent. by weight of oleic acid was dissolved , a normal solution .
The fluid now flashed over a water surface and the tension of the interface with water was found to have fallen from , that of pure cyclohexane-w.ater , to .
It cannot be without interest to notice that the concentration of oleic acid employed is of the order of concentration needed in the case of such physiologically active substances as adrenalin reckoned as percentage of the body weight of the animal ; also , if FitzGerald 's view be true that the force of contraction of a muscle is derived from changes in the tension of internal surfaces , such a concentration of a similarly active body would reduce the absolute force by about 50 per cent. While dealing with the question of chemical purity certain special cases must be mentioned .
A sample of octane purchased from Kahlbaum gave the following values , .
As these differed widely from the values obtained for other saturated bodies the sample was freed from unsaturated substances , by shaking for four weeks with many changes of concentrated sulphuric acid .
It was then washed with water and distilled from metallic sodium , and the fraction which came over at now gave the values which accord wound fheraturated bodies .
fraction gperfectly constant boiling point.eries o was therefore undertaken and two fractions collected , ( A ) , Bar .
758 .
The B.P. of octylene is given in Beilstem as , and as at mm. Fraction A gave Fraction The mean of these values is the best that can be got for octylene by fractional distillation .
The substances employed were for the most part purchased from Kahlbaum and , when possible , distilled to a constant point just before use .
Some specimens were lent to me by Dr. Ruhemann , to whom I owe also a reat debt for his kindness in directly superintending and helping in the purification of each substance .
Without the aid which his profound technical knowledge afforded I could not have succeeded in making the measurements .
The effect of any slight degree , of mutual solubility of the fluids A and upon the quantity needs consideration .
Let and be respectively the tension of the solution in A and of A in can form contiguous phases .
We theu have Since in all the cases dealt with , , and , the relation of to so far as magnitude is concerned is umcertain , terms of opposite sign being introduced by the presence of A and on both sides of the interiace .
When the two solutions are brought into contact the work done is derived from ( 1 ) the attraction of A for A and of for across the interfaoe , and ( 2 ) the attraction of A for B. When pure A and come into contact ( 1 ) is zero , and any degree of increases the work due to ( 1 ) and decreases that due to ( 2 ) .
Therefore , since mutual miscibility introduces effects of )osite s into the right-hand members of equation ( 2 ) , the relation of to cannot be predicted .
* Whatever the theoretical conclusion practically the value of under the conditions of measurement was found to be sensibly independent of the state of the phases .
obviously does not include the loss of potential due to the mixing of A and except at the interface , for , if it did , would be a function of the ratio surface/ ( mass of of B .
whichIhaveincludedToillustratethiswehavethefirstgroupofsaturatedsubstances , inoilC , \ldquo ; COInposedmainlyofhighboiling-point : paraffins .
lies between and 24 .
The introduction of an unsaturated linkage into the paraffin octane raises the value to 36 ( octylene ) .
] But in the case of a ring compound unsaturated linkages produce a smaller effect , the number rising only to ( benzene ) .
The introduction of the OH group into a ring compound increases the quantity by 20 cyclohexane cyclohexanol , ; but the effect in the case of the paraffin chain is only about one-half .
The presence of the carboxyl group produces the same effect as the OH group , the quantity being increased in the case of capryllic acid by For the esters we for ethyl hydrocinnamate .
The introduction of one more unsaturated linkage increases this only slightly , namely , to the 43 of ethyl cinnamate , and the double ester ethyl phthalate again is only slightly higher , namely , 46 .
Other relations nught be pointed out , but the figures speak for themselves .
I prefer to pass on to the more important negative relations .
In the saturated bodies there is a very small but I believe real difference between the paraffin chain and the ring formation , and again between these and the compounds and .
The two cyclic alcohols have practically will be complete and independent of the molecular volumes , since the mass of the fluids on either side of the is practically infinite .
ainst this view , however , it is be noted that chemical action between water and such stable substances as paraffin or cyclohexane , both in mass , is unknown .
If it did occur at an interface it could only be as the result of great stresses .
: Table III shows most clearly that the quantity increases with what may be called the chemical reactivity of the fluid , and especially that it is greatest when the molecules are of the salt type\mdash ; acids , alcohols , or esters .
Such molecules by their constitution readily exhibit electric polarisation , and we have here additional evidence for the fact mentioned in the earlier papers that the chief modifying factor in all interfaces is the development of a contact difference of potential , due to polarisation of the molecules by stresses normal to the interface .
If the quantity represents mainly the specific electric polarisation of the interface , then its vahae for paraffin , cyclohexane , etc. , may represent polarisation due to the water molecules , which are of this salt type .
For a surface ween two saturated substances not of salt type the quantity might well be zero , in which case we should have molecular volume and , following the usual notation , , being respectively the molecular volumes , and the axis normal .
to the interface .
Then on Young 's hypothesis , that molecular attraction is a .
force which is of constant value over the range , we have for two similar chemical substanoes , for which therefore is the same , That is to say , the would be proportional to the molecular volume .
The alternative assumption , that the attractive force of a molecule of A for one of falls off according to some power of the distance which separates them , yields result that for similar chemical substances , since is equal , the molecular volumes vary inversely with this power .
Thus , if the attractive force be put then The Tension of Composite Fluid .\mdash ; No. II .
By W. B. HAliDY , F.R.S. ( Received October 19 , 1912 , \mdash ; Read January 16 , \mdash ; Revised hIarch 11 , 1913 .
) With the Figures in Table III of the preceding paper ( p. 311 ) as a uide the problem of the spreading of one fluid over the face of another may be approached with some sense of security .
In an earlier ) the equation of a composite surface was found to be when is the tension of the composite surface , and a term depending upon gravity .
Putting , it is seen that spreading will occur only when and , at the limit , that is to the tension of pure water in the experiments under consideration .
Taking , the tension of pure water , we have from the last paper Table I. TA .
TAB. Cyclohexane Octane Oil " " Carbon tetrachloride * Boy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , , vol. 86 , p. 610 .

