On Electrical and Magnetic Rotations .
By Charles Babbage , Esq. F.R.S. &amp; 8c .
&amp;c. Communicated May 29 , 1826 .
Read June 15 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , p. 494 .
] The author first recapitulates the manner in which he conceives time to influence the results of the magnetic phenomnena observed by M. Arago , and which need not here he repeated , being in substance that given in a paper on the subject , in the Transactions of last year , stated in a more geometrical form .
As the reasoning in this argument requires only that an attractive or repulsive force should be communicated from one body to another in a finite time , it occurred to him that electricity might be substituted for magnetism , and that rotations analogous to those observed by M. Arago might be produced by the use of electrified instead of magnetic bodies .
He accordingly suspended by a fine silk thread a thin brass bar with circular ends over a disc of glass ; and the bar being electrified by contact with excited sealing-wax , the glass was made to revolve slowly , when the bar was observed to be dragged round in the same direction .
The effect was decided ; and all proper precautions were taken to avoid disturbing causes , such as currents of air , twist of the silk , &amp;c. The effect was greatest with a slow velocity of rotation , about five turns in a minute .
On substituting a stick of excited sealing-wax for the brass bar , the same effect was produced ; but when the rotation of the plate was rapid , the stick remained nearly immovable .
The same effect was produced when the glass plate was covered with plates of copper , lead , or other metals cemented to it .
A proper apparatus being constructed for the purpose of further experiments , an excited electrophorus was made to revolve under a , flat needle of thin brass with circular ends , with various degrees of rapidity .
The motions of the needles were irregular and complicated , but appear to the author capable of explanation , as well as the others on the same principle , -that electricity excited by induction is not instantly destroyed by removing the inducing body .
The great velocity with which electricity travels in conducting bodies having been urged as an objection to this explanation , the author combats this objection , on the ground that small differences of electricity ought ( from analogy with a fluid similarly circumstanced , ) to be equalised more slowly than great ones ; and moreover , that by the disposition of the apparatus , extremely weak forces ' being made to act constantly and for a long time , ought to produce an effect much superior to that arising from the transient action of each part .
The author next proceeds to examine the action of screens interposed ; and having first satisfied himself by direct experiments with unelectrified metallic plates and needles , that currents of air driven through a screen of muslin produced no sensible effects , he placed a screen of coarse gauze between an electrified sealing-wax needle and a revolving pewter plate , and to his surprise found a tendency to motion in the needle , opposite to that of the plate ; and though not always produced , nor always to the same extent , this effect occurred in seventeen out of twenty trials .
The author then looked out for some method of increasing the inequality of distribution of electricity on the metallic plate ; he therefore placed on the revolving apparatus , just under the metal plate , a very small lighted lamp .
Several experiments made with this disposition of the apparatus are related , without leading to any conclusion as to the action exerted on the needle ; and the author then proceeds to consider what extraneous causes could have acted to produce the small retrograde motions observed .
First , such causes are enumerated as currents of air in the room , in the box containing the apparatus ; -currents driven through the screen by rotation ; currents of heated air from the lamp ; vibrations from the mechanism producing the motion ; torsion of the wire suspending , or electricity of the bridge carrying , the needle ; and flexure of the wax .
Before relating the experiments made to elucidate each of these disturbing causes , however , he proceeds to relate other experiments , confirmatory of the fact of the retrograde motion , and of the influence of the heat in producing it ; after which , he describes a great variety of experiments , made for the purpose of trying the effect of the presence or absence of the disturbing causes ; and concludes that none of them , singly or combined , are adequate to produce the phenomena observed .
He then proceeds to state what appears to him to be their true explanation , on the principles adopted respecting the non-instantaneous communication of electricity ; or at least to show that they are not repugnant to those principles ; or that , moreover , those principles may in certain cases give rise to a retrograde motion , or to no motion at all , or a direct one , according to the disposition of the apparatus ; and that very trifling apparent differences in the latter respect may give rise to all the varieties of the phenomena .

