]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
HOPKINSON , JOHN , and WILSON , \mdash ; Alternate rrent Dynamoectric Machines .
Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , pp. WILSON , ERNBST , and HOPKINSON , JOHN.\mdash ; Alternate Current DynamoKlectric Machines Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , pp. 229-262 .
Alternator , Siemens , Characteristic Ourve of .
Hopkinson , J. , and Wilson , , Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , p. Alternator , Siemens , lndnced Currents in Magnet-cores and Windings , increase as well as deorease E.M.F. Hopkinson , J. , and Wilson , E. , Phil. Trans. A 1896 , , p. 229 .
Alternators , Induced Currents Magnet-oores and Windin*of .
IIopkinson , J. , and Wilson , B. , Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , p. 229 .
Alternators .
Siemens .
Differential tests of Efflciency of .
Hopkinson , J. , and Wilson , E. , Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , p. 229 .
Dynamo , Mather and Platt Alternate Current .
Curves of .
Hopkinson , J. , and Wilson , E. , Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. , p. 229 .
Dynamo , Siemens Alternate Current , Description of .
Hopkinson .
J. , and Wilson , E. , Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , p. 229 .
Dynamo-Electric chines , Alternate Current .
Hopkinson , J. , and Wilson , E. , Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , p. 229 .
Dynamo-Electric Machines , Determination of Curves of Potential of .
nSon , J. , and Wilson , E. , Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , p. 229 .
Dynamo-Electric Machines .
Ordinary Theory of Armature Reaction in , inapplicable in maohines experimented upon .
J. , and Wilson , B. , Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , p. 229 .
[ 229 ] VI .
Current -Electric chines .
J. , F.R.S. , E. WILSON .
* Received Apri14 , \mdash ; Read May 2 , 1895 .
THE paper deals ) erimentalIy with the current induced in the coils and in tho cores of the magnets of alternate current machines by the varying currents and by the varying positions of the ar1nature .
It is shown that such currents exist and that they the effect of diminishing to a certain extent the romotive force of the machine when it is working on resistances as a generator without having a corresponding effect upon the phase of the armature current .
It is also shown that preventing variations in the } of the electromagnet does not , in bhe lnachine experimented upon , greatly affect the result , and that the effect of introducing copper plates between the magnets and the nature has not a very great effect upon he electromotive force of the armature , the conclusion being that the conductivity of the iron cores is sufficient to produce the main part of the effect .
method of determining the efficiency of alternate current machines is illustrated and the results of the experiments for this determination are utilised to show that in certain cases of relation of phase of current to phase of electromotive force the effect of the local currents in the iron cores is to increase instead of to diminish th .
notive force of the machine .
I. In gebraic discussions of the theory of a]ternate current machines , it has usually been assumed that the electromotive force due to the magnets is a periodic function , the same whether there is a current in the armature or not , and that the effect of the current in the armature can be represented by regarding the armature as having self-induction .
It has been pointed out , too , that the coefficient of self-induction will generally vary with the position of the armature in the field .
To state exactly the same thing in another way it has been assumed that the electromotive force of the magnets is a periodic function independent of the current in the armature , and that the effect of the armature current on the through the armature can be *The large majority of tho experiments herein described were made in summer of 1893 and a part of the paper then written .
We have to thank Mr. F. LYDALL , one of the student demonstrators at King 's College at that , for much asslstance , represented as an armature reaction which vanishes at the moment when the current in the armature vanishes .
To state the matter in the form of an equation , let be the electromotive force of the machine on open circuit , the resistance of the armature circuit , the current in rmature , the periodic time , then it is assumed that ; independent of being , if you please , a coefficient of self-induction constant or variable , or , if you prefer it , representing the change in the induction through the armature due to the current in the armature , vanishing with It is easy to see that this statemenf , is true in some cases .
For example , it is very nearly true in the older machines with permanent magnets .
Or a maohine without iron in the magnets or armature , consisting merely of two circuits\mdash ; one the magnet circuit , the other the armature circuit\mdash ; movable in relation to each other .
If the current in the magnet circuit is kept precisely constant , either by inserting a greaf , self-induction in its circuit external to the machine , or by inserting such a resistance and using so high an electromotive force that any disturbing electromotive forces are inappreciable compared with it , the preceding statement is strictly accurate .
But if the magnet current is not forced to be constant the problem is more complicated .
Stating the matter in the language of self- and mutual-induction , let and be the currents in armature and magnet circuits , and their resistances , and their self-induction , their mutual-induction , the constant electromotive force applied to the magnet , the equations for the system These equations can be solved by approximations if the variations in the value of are small .
First , ; Second , substituting this value of , we obtain This gives periodic terms in , the period being one-half the of the mutual induction .
Introducing these terms into the first equation , we that the term in in ALTERNATE DYNAMO-ELECTRIC the electromotive force of the machine is fied .
and that terms in are introduced .
The formet may have real practical importance , and it is one of the objects of the present paper to ascertain how far it exists and is of importance actual machines .
Returning to machines as ordinarily constructed , in these the current in the magnet coils is nob compelled to be constant , and any rapid variation of the induction in the magnet cores will induce currents in those .
The val.iations in the current in the magnet coils and the currents in the cores both tend to annul the variations in the induction in the core arising from the current in the armature , but they will not tend t.o alter the verage effect of the currents in the armature on the induction through the magnets .
rfhat there will be such an average effect is not difficult to see .
Suppose the mature coils to be fixed in line with the magnets of the .
any current in the armature will have its full effect in increasing or diminishing the field through the magnets .
Suppose the armature coils to be fixed midway between the magnets , any current in the armature will then have practically little or no effect in increasing or diminishing the field through the magnets .
If the armature be connected through resistance , inductive or non-inductive , and the machine run in the ordinary way , the current in the armature will lag in phase behind the electro- there icurrent irmature tending temagnetize tagnets , ngmotive force Ermature pposite tagnets together the effects of the armature in , there an average effect tending to demagnetize the magnets .
If the machine had a constant current round the twould bully accounted fcall iinduction o armature rseby tariations ourrent iinding aocal currents iheBut iariations annulled .
magnet cores , we have a part of the diminution of the electromotive force the machine unaccompanied by reta.rdation of phase of the current in the armature .
Before giving any experimental results , it wil ] be well to describe the machines ' used and the general method of experiment adopted . .
The two dynamos experimented upon were constructed by Messrs. SIEMENS BROS .
, and are of the same pattern and size but are of an old type .
They are mounted upon a common base-plate , their pulleys being provided with nges and bolts , so that any phase difference can be given to the armat , ures , for the accurate setting of which a graduated circle is provided , or so that the armatures can be run independently of each other .
The pulleys have each a diameter of inches , and are suited for a 6-inch belt\mdash ; the shaft is prolonged for the purpose of revolving contact-maker and a small pulley for driving a Buss tachometer .
Each dynamo has a series electromagnets see , there being 12 on either of the armature .
The core of each magnet ( A ) is of wrought-iron inches diameter , and inohes'long : and is wound with 5layers , 85 convolutions per layer , of copper wire millims. diameter .
The electromagnets are bolted to circular cast-iron frames ( B ) , which serve also for supporting the bearings of the armature shaft .
The centres of the 12 nets on each frame are equally spaced out on a circle inches radius concentric with the axle of the machine .
Each cast-iron frame has a cross-sectional area of sq .
inches .
The opposing pole pieces of the electromagnets have an air space of inch between them , through which the armature coils rotate .
The 24 electromagnet windings are coupled in series , and have a total resistance of ohnls , the normal exciting current being about 22 amperes .
The armature of each dynamo consists of 12 coils or bobbins ( C ) with wooden cores inch thick .
Each core is 7 inches lon ( radially ) , with rounded ends\mdash ; the outer being struck to a circle inches and the inner inches diameter .
The ends of the respective coils are brought to a screw-plug commutator board fixed to the shaft , by means of which a series of combinations can be made .
Each coil consists of 10layers , 8 convolutions per layer , millims. copper wire , having resistance ( cold ) of 187 ohm ; and at a speed of 1000 revolutions per minute , with normal .
excitation and fully loaded , is intended to give 50 volts at its extremitiea The full load current for each coil is amperes , so that at 1000 revolutions per , or a frequency of 100 complete periods per second , the machine should give , with its 12 armature in parallel , an output of 200 amperes 50 volts .
The two terminal rings of the screw-plug commutator are connected by conductors to two gun-metal collector rings , insulated from one another and from the shaft by means of ebonite .
Each collector ring is provided with two 1-inch copper wire brushes , carried by adjustable bar-holders fixed to the terminal blocks of the dynamo .
The potential difference between any two points at any epoch is determined by means of a Kelvin quadrant electl.ometer and a revolving contact-maker fixed to the sbaft of the dynamo .
The contact-maker consists of a disc of gun-metal which carries two rings one of gun-metal insulated from the disc , the otherof ebonite .
Into the latter is inserted a strip of metal -\amp ; inch wide , which is iu permanent , contact with the guu-metal ring .
Two insulated brushes are attached to a movable ALTERNATE DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES .
brush-holder , so that one presses on each rin .
The circuit between the two brnhes completed once in each revolution , and the position of the contact ' can be read .
off by a pointer attached to the holder on a circle inches diameter , divided into 360 degrees .
The two points between which it is desired to measure the pof , ential difference are connected through the contact-maker to a condenser and the quadrant dectrometer , as shown in fig. 2 , in which A and are the points , the revolving contact-maker , the reversing switch of the electrometer , the condenser , and the quadrant electrometer .
By plotting as ordinates the volts measured any epoch , and as abscissae the position of the contact-maker as representing time , the curve of potential is obtained .
The electrometer is standardised by means of a Clark cell , so that the deflections on the scale can be reduced to volts : when the potential difference between A and was too great for the electrometer , it was reduced in any desired ratio by two considerable non-inductive resistances introduced between A and , as shown in fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
The characteristic curve of the alternator is given in fig. 4 , and shows the relation between the total induction I , between one pole piece and the opposing one , in terms of the line integral of magnetising force due to the two windings in series on the two respective magnet cores ; the scale of amperes in the agnet winding is also given horizontally .
NDCCCXCVI.\mdash ; A. 2 ALTERNATE CURRENT DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACmNES .
of the first two terms ; the difference of ordinates of these curves should at all times be equal to .
In particular , and this is the only point of moment , as we do pot know how may vary , when vanishes If the effect of the current in the armature on the induction through the armature could be represented by a term which vanishes with the current in the armature , it is obvious that the curves A and would cross at the epoch when .
They do not .
The difference of inductions as given.by these curves at this epoch is 25 per qent .
of the induction which would then traverse the armature coil if the machine were running on open circuit , that is to say , 25 per cent. of the ordinate at this epoch given by the A curve .
If it is assumed that the verage effect of the armature ccurrent upon the induction in the magnets is such as to this induction by 25 per cent. , the ordinates of the curve would be decreased in like proportion , giving the curve of which is the integral .
The difference at any epoch between the curve and the curve is to be fully accounted for by the term We may put it in this way , In this machine the armature current at the t.imes when it has a value affects the field at the instant when the armature current is zero .
The eff is produced by variations induced in the current in the field magnetwinding and in the solid iron of the magnet , by the varying current in and the varying position of the armature .
That these induced currents must exist is obvious , a it is easy enough to measure them in the copper coils .
They have the effect of causing the armature reaction to produce an average effect upon the magnetism of fields by partially annulling its periodic effect .
If the current in the armature did not lag behind the eJectromotive force of the magnets , there would be little or po diminution of the average magnetism of the magnets .
We may correctly say that this diminution of the magnetism of the magnets is due to the self-induction of the grmature causing a lag of current .
The effect arises from the self-induction of the faces.heref.epresent iffect anstant amature modified burrents induced inetsmature bobbins apposite t or : The constant term causes the fall in average maguetism , the periodic term causes currents in the magnets , and its effect on the magnetism is partly annulled thereby .
The effect will vary as the square of the current if this is small .
The effect of selfinduction in diminishing the apparent electromotive force of the machine varies as S : .
, Fig. 7 .
$ Fig. 8 .
Fig. 9 .
ALTERNATE CURRENT DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES .
Fig. 10 .
: : the magnets with the copper plates in and that the copper plates do not make behind topper piminish turrent i. in It may be inferred that in this agnet cores to have in large measure the : ALTERNATE CURRENT DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES .
the leading machine being generator , and were connected in series with a ncninductive resistance , and a KELVIN ampere balance , as shown in fig. 13 .
The potential difference of the generator was measured at different epochs by means of the KELVIN quadrant electrometer , and the contact maker , the potential applied to the electrometer being reduced by the non-inductive resistances For corresponding epochs a curve of potential was taken across , this gives the current passing between machines and also the difference of potential difference between motor and generator .
The power difference , or loss in the combination , was supplied by a shunt-motor through shafting and belts , and determined by watts supplied to the motor when driving the shaiting , the alternator beIt being removed , and then ; observing the watts taken to drive the alternator when loaded\mdash ; the speed being same in each case .
The difference gives the power absorbed by the combination .
It was found that the .
watts required to drive the shafting alone were 1681 ; equired trive tfting aternators wxcited , frames of the armature .
Tables .
and give for about half and full load ( with regard to current only ) the data for getting at the watts given out by generator and received by motor , and been obtained from the potential and current curves .
The phase difference between the armatures was ) and period respectively .
Table IV .
shows how the efficiencies of generator , motor , and combination have .been obtained ; and also gives the allocation of losses in the system .
The armatures were coupled of a period apart in phase , and the following .
experiments were made .
1 .
The alternators were equally excited with a current of amperes and run at a speed of 716 revolutions per minute , corresponding with a frequency of periods per second , and the following curves obtained ( see fig. 14 ) .
are the E.M.F. of generator and motor when running on open circuit .
are the potential difference of generator and motor respectively when a CUlTent of amperes was passing through the armatures .
are the E.M.F. of the respective machines when loaded , that is to say , they are the curves corrected for current into armature resistance .
is the E.M.F. of the combination when not loaded , that is , it is the difference of the curves is the curve of current passing between the machines , and is proportional to the Fig. 13 .
ALTERNATE CURRENT DYNAMO-ELECTRiC MACHINES .
243 E.M. of the combination when loaded , the connecting leads being non-inductive .
This electromotive force is the difference of the curves 2 .
In fig. the frequency is 71 , the motor is excited with the HOPKINSON , Institute of Civil Engineers Lecture delivered 1883 ; Institute of Civil h'ngineers , November , 1884 ; or ' Original Papers on Dynamo Machinery pp. 58 and 148 .
generator with amperes .
In this case the motor is at gher E.M.F. on open circuit than the generator .
Curves corresponding to those in the Experiment 1 were obtained and are marked in a similar manner .
The potential curves in fig. 15 have been integrated , and the integral curves so obtained are given in fig. 16 .
These give therefore the inductions in terms of the me .
3 .
In fig. 17 tho frequency is 70 , the generator is excited with and the motor with amperes .
generator is working with a higher E.M.F. on open circuit Fig. 17 .
than the motor .
The potential curves have been integrated , and the integral curves are given in fig. 18 .
It was observed that when the exciting current of the motor was decreased , that of the generat being kept fairly constant ( the two machines being equally excited with about 18 mperes each to begin with ) , the current between the machines A.LTERNATE CURRENT DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES .
gradually decreased until a critical point was reached , when a further ninution of the motor exciting current had the of increasing the current between the machines .
* It also observed that the watts given out by the generator did not vary in the proportion of the currents between the machines .
Fig. 18 .
Table V. gives the watts given out by generator for three values of its excibing currents , and 19 amperes , the corresponding exciting currents for the mof.or being 18 , , and amperes .
The current between the machines is a minimum for exciting currents of and in the two machines , and the curves in fig. 17 have been taken under these conditions .
This is a point of practical importance in transmission of power alternate currents , since the size of the conductor between motor and generator is mainly determined by the current transmitted .
The cause is readily explained f.rom the curves .
Starting with the conditions as in Experiment 2 , where the motor is more highly excited than the generator , we see that the current ( x ) is accelerated in phase with regard to the potential .
difference of the machines .
On increasing the exciting current of the generator until the machines are equally excited as Experiment 1 , the current ( x ) is still accelerated with regard to the potential difference , but not to such an extent .
On diminishing the motor exciting current until the machines are excited as in Experiment 3 , the current ( iv ) is in phase with the potential difference .
For a given power transmitted this will be the point.of maximum efficiency with regard to the intermediate conductors .
Any further dimlnutlon the motor exc tng * This effect has been independently observed by Mr. MORDEY and Mr. KAPP ( see ' Journal of Institute of Electrical Engineers , ' vol. 22 , pp. 128 , 173 ) .
current has the effect of retarding the current ( x ) with regard to the potentid , difference , and consequently for the snme watts transmitted and the same potential difference the current musb be increased .
The case in which the conductors between motor and generator have considerable induction or capacity has not been worked out .
The losses in the system can be supplied electrically ( instead of by belt as in these experiments ) as !
the case of direct current machines .
* III .
The results of the last section are valuable in relation to the effects of induced currents in the magnets , the subject of Section I. With a machine working as a simple generator the current lags behind the electromotive force on open circuit by any amount from to But when a generator and motor are run rigidly coupled together , the current may lead the generator electromotive force , or may lag and the motor may lag by any amount from to Regarding the relative phases of electromotive force of machines and of current , the machine is a generator when the current is from to behind the machine ; it is a motor from to , and again a generator from 27 to .
We have alread .
stated that we should naturally expect that the induced currents in the magnets would have little or effect when E.M.F. and current were in the same phase , and that they would have a maximum effect when the two were apart , or at quarter centres .
We should expect further that , as a generator can be made into a motor by reversing the in the armature , wherever local currents diminish E.M.F. of a generator , they would increase E.M.F. of a motor .
That is , we should expect that local currents would diminish .
from lead to , and increase E.M.F. from 18 to .
As a fact , we find this to be partially verified ; it seems that local urrents diminish E.M.F. from a negative angle of comparative small amount , perhaps , to considerably more than .
, and that they increase E.M.F. from 18 to over Referring to the curves in fig. 14 , and are in phase , and would need increasing 3 per cent. to meet , when vanishes lags , and needs diminishing , that is the currents have increased the E.M.F. In fig. 15 a very change in the observations would change the character of the results .
We have taken another set of curves shown in figs. 19 and A. In fig. 19 , we have a very small current amperes in the generator magnets , and the current is in phase with the generator , the motor being 26 behind the current .
The is about t-2 per cent. low owing to local currents , and the motor is 25 per cent. of its actual value high .
To obtain a better standard we excited a machine with amperes and passed the same current as before through the armature and ordinary non-inductive resistanoe , and found the current lagged , and the E.M.F. ' ngineering , ' 24th March , 1893 .
ALTERNATE CURRENT DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINES .
of the machine was per cent. instead of 12 per cent. The resultJ are given in fig. 20 .
Fig. 19 .
Fig. 20 .
In considering the applications of these results , it must be remembered that the machines have been worked far outside the limits of practice for the purpose of accentuating the effect .
If we confined to these limits we should still find these , but smaller in amount .
TABLE I. ordinate of curvo A when of ordinates of A and when be zero on the usual theory , ALTERNATE CURRENT DDNAMO-ELECTRTC MACHINES . .
KCVI.\mdash ; C. 2 1 ALTERNATE CURRENT DYNAAO-E LECECTR MACHINES .
ON ALTEENATE CURRENT DYNAMO-ELECTRIC IACHINCS .

