1870 .
] Mr. G. Gore on Fluoride of Silver .
January 12 , 1871 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
Prof. Benjamin Pierce ( elected Foreign Member in 1852 ) and Col. J. T. Walker , R.E. , were admitted into the Society .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. u On Fluoride of Silver.\#151 ; Part II .
" By George Gore , F.R.S. Received September 22 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains an exhaustive account of the behaviour of argentic fluoride in vessels of platinum , carbon , and various fluorides in contact with chlorine , bromine , and iodine at various temperatures .
When argentic fluoride is completely decomposed by chlorine in platinum vessels at a red heat , the reaction agrees with the following equation : 4AgF+4C1 + Pt=4AgCl , PtF4 .
Vessels of cryolite and of fluor-spar were found incapable of retaining argentic fluoride in a melted state .
Other vessels were also made by melting and casting various mixtures of earthy fluorides at a high temperature ; and although forming beautiful products , probably capable of technical uses , they were not capable of retaining silver fluoride in a state of fusion .
Numerous vessels were also made of seventeen different fluorides by moulding them in the state of clay and baking them at suitable temperatures ; these also were found incapable of holding melted fluoride of silver .
Argentic fluoride was only superficially decomposed by chlorine at 60 ' Fahr. during thirty-eight , days .
When heated to 230 ' Fahr. during fifteen days in a platinum vessel in chlorine , it was very little decomposed .
Chloride of silver heated to fusion in a platinum vessel in chlorine corroded the vessel and formed a platinum-salt , as when fluoride of silver was employed .
An aqueous solution of argentic fluoride agitated with chlorine evolved heat and set free oxygen , in accordance with the following equation:\#151 ; 8AgF + 8Cl + 4H2 0 = 5 AgCl-f 3AgC10 + 8HF+0 , or 7 AgOl + AgC103 + 8 HF + O. Dry hydrochloric acid gas completely decomposed argentic fluoride in a melted state , but only acted upon it superficially at 60 ' Fahr. A saturated aqueous solution of argentic fluoride was not precipitated by chloric acid .
Perfectly anhydrous fluoride of silver was only superficially decomposed by contact with bromine in a platinum vessel during thirty-six days at 60 Fahr. , or during two days at 200 ' Fahr. At a low red heat in vessels of platinum , argentic fluoride was completely decomposed by a current 236 Mr. C. F. Varley on the Discharge of Electricity [ Jan. 12 , of bromine vapour , a portion of its fluorine being expelled and a portion corroding the platinum and forming an insoluble compound of fluoride of platinum and bromide of silver .
In carbon boats at the same temperature the whole of the silver-salt was converted into bromide , the boat being corroded and the fluorine escaping in chemical union with the carbon .
The action of bromine on an aqueous solution of argentic fluoride was similar to the action of chlorine .
A solution of argentic fluoride yielded copious precipitates hoth with hydrobromic and bromic acids .
Under the influence of a temperature of 200 ' to 600 ' Fahr. in closed platinum vessels , iodine very slowly and incompletely decomposes argentic fluoride without corroding the vessels , and produces a feeble compound of argentic iodide , fluorine , and iodine , from which the two latter substances are expelled at a red heat .
At a red heat in platinum vessels , iodine produces argentic iodide , and in the presence of free argentic fluoride corrodes the vessels in consequence of formation of platinic fluoride ; iodine and fluorine pass away together during the reaction .
In vessels of carbon at the same temperature argentic iodide is formed , the vessels are corroded , and a gaseous compound of fluorine and carbon is produced .
By treating an aqueous solution of argentic fluoride with iodine , similar results are produced as with bromine and chlorine ; a similar solution yields copious precipitates both with hydriodic and iodic acids .
A mode of analysis of iodine is also fully described in the paper .
A known weight of iodine was dissolved in absolute alcohol , a strong solution of argentic nitrate of known strength added to it , in portions at a time , with stirring until the colour of iodine exactly disappeared .
The mixture was evaporated , the free nitric acid expelled by careful heat , and the residue weighed .
The residue was then heated to fusion , to convert the iodate of silver into iodide , and again weighed .
Two experiments of this kind yielded accurate results , and the process was easy and expeditious .
IT .
" Some Experiments on the Discharge of Electricity through Rarefied Media and the Atmosphere .
" By Cromwell Fleet-wood Varley .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes^ Sec. R.S. Received October 5 , 1870 .
After the labours of Mr. Gassiot , one approaches this subject with diffidence , lest he should appear to be attempting to appropriate the glory which so justly belongs to that gentleman and to Professor Grove .
The nature of the action inside the tube is at present involved in considerable mystery , but some light is thrown upon the subject by the following experiments .
Before describing them , however , the author wishes to observe that he has seen Mr. Gassiot 's last paper* and finds that , so tar as regulating the strength of the current is concerned , he has been proceeding in a similar manner to the author .
* Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xii .
p. 329 .

