An Enquiry concerning the Nature of Heat , and the Mode of its Communication .
By Benjamin Count of Rumford , V.P.R.S. Foreign Associate of the National Institute of France , 8sc .
Read February 2 , 1804 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1804 , p. 77 .
] The importance of the investigation here entered into , -inasmuch as it applies to most of the operations of nature as well as art , -appears so manifest , that we shall not recapitulate what the author advances on that subject .
Before he proceeds to the detail of his experiments for the purpose of computing the emissions of heat from various bodies under a variety of circumstances , he finds it necessary to premise a minute description of the principal part of the apparatus he contrived for his purpose .
This instrument consists of a hollow cylindrical vessel of brass , four inches long , and as many in diameter .
It is closed at both ends ; but has at one end a cylindrical neck about eight-tenths of an inch in diameter , by which it is occasionally filled with water of different temperatures , and through which also a thermometer , constructed for the purpose , is occasionally introduced , in order to ascertain the changes of temperature in the fluid .
As it was in the first instance only meant to observe the quantity of heat that escapes through the sides of the vessel , two boxes were contrived , filled and covered with non-conducting substances , such as eiderdown , fur , &amp;c. , which were fitted to the two ends or flat surfaces of the cylinder .
Six of these instruments , with proper stands , and auxiliary implements of obvious construction , were prepared for the sake of comparative experiments .
A previous trial was made with two of the cylinders , the vertical polished sides of the one being naked , and those of the other covered with one thickness of fine white Irish linen , strained over the metallic surface .
Here it was found , contrary to expectation , that in a certain space of time the covered cylinder had lost considerably more heat than the naked one .
In reflecting on this experiment it occurred to the author , that in order to insure the accuracy of the comparison between experiments made at different times and at different places , it would be necessary to fix on some particular interval of the scale of the thermometer above the temperature of the air by which the instrument is surrounded .
He therefore determined that all experiments should begin at the temperature of 50 ?
, and end at 40 ?
above that of the surrounding atmosphere , an interval of 100 appearing to him sufficient for the purpose of his investigation .
Finding also that most experiments would take up several hours , during which he could often not be present to observe the thermometer at the different points which ought to be ascertained , and observing that the rate of cooling of hot bodies afforded a pretty regular progression , he determined to investigate this rate more minutely , with a view to obtain the means of introducing such interpolations as would complete the series of observations .
Accordingly , on a given line , on which were set off the times of cooling , he applied ordinates representing the different temperatures corresponding to those times ; and having joined the opposite terminations of these ordinates , he had the satisfaction to find that this latter connecting line was in fact the logarithmic curve , by means of which he would be enabled to supply by computation any intermediate points which happened to have been neglected during the observation .
The problem according to which these interpolations are to be computed , is given at full length .
These previous precautions and expedients having been fully stated , the author proceeds next to the enumeration of his long series of experiments , the first of which is merely the comparison , which has already been mentioned above , between the naked and the covered cylinders .
The result was , that the former was 55/ in cooling 10 ?
, while the latter cooled through the same interval in 36k ' ; whence it appears that clothing does in some instances expedite the passage of heat out of a hot body instead of confining it .
The only mode in which it is thought that this unexpected result can be accounted for , is by admitting that , as air is known to adhere with considerable obstinacy to the surfaces of certain solid bodies , the particles of air which were in immediate contact with the surface of the naked cylinder were so attached to the metal as to adhere to it with considerable force ; and as confined air is known to be a very warm covering , it seems probable that the retardation of the cooling in this vessel was owing to that invisible covering , the air in contact with the other vessel being absorbed , displaced , or in a great degree driven away by the colder covering of linen which closely embraced it .
Led on by this conjecture , several experiments were made with cylinders covered with one , two , or more coatings of glue , and of copal varnish and the results , in fact , turned out favourable to the supposition , the cylinder with one coat of glue losing 100 of its heat in 43 ' , and that with two coatings in about 38 ' .
With the copal also the cooling of the instrument became more and more rapid as the thickness of the varnish was increased ; till , however , eight successive coatings having been applied , the cooling again became less rapid , and it was found that there was a maximum of thickness which produced the greatest effect .
No probable reason is yet assigned for this limitation .
The next object was to find out what effect cblour would produce in the experiments , and accordingly the cylinder with eight coatings of varnish was painted black ; it was also painted in the same manner after all the varnish had been washed away ; and lastly , it was likewise painted white : in each of these instances the cooling was accelerated by the paint , nearly in the same proportion as in the preceding experiments .
A nicety occurred now in the conducting of the experiments , which was thought to deserve particular attention : though the apparatus for confining the heat at the two flat ends of the cylinder was the best that could be contrived , yet it is not at all unlikely that some would escape in those directions , and thus occasion some fallacy in the results .
In order to investigate this point , a given number was previously assumed as the measure of the whole quantity of heat emitted by the whole instrument , without terminal coverings , during a certain period .
The surface of the whole of the cylinder was then accurately measured , and also that of its vertical sides ; and thence was inferred the proportion of heat that passed off through the sides of the instrument , and what proportion must have escaped through its uncovered ends .
With these data it is easy to infer , from an experiment with the ends covered , what proportion of the heat , lost in the cooling , had escaped through the flat terminal surfaces when covered .
In this manner it has been ascertained that , assuming the total of the loss of heat emitted by a cylinder , in a given time , for instance 55 ' , to be 10,000 , the quantity that escapes through the vertical sides will be =7,015 , and that which penetrates through the terminal sides and coverings =2,985 .
Admitting these computations , it will now appear how an estimate may be made , what proportion of the heat lost in any other experiment , actually escaped through the vertical sides of the instrument : and as the quantity of the heat emitted may well be represented by the time of the emission , there can be no difficulty in substituting the velocity for the quantity ; whence it is inferred , that in the experiment , for instance , when the sides of one of the cylinders were blackened , the velocity with which heat is given off from the naked sides of a cylinder , is to the velocity with which it is given off by the blackened sides , as 5,654 is to 10,000 very nearly , the velocities being as the times of cooling inversely .
Before he proceeds further in his investigation , the author finds it necessary to describe an additional instrument which he contrived for measuring , or rather for discovering , those very small changes of temperature in bodies which are occasioned by the radiations of other neighbouring bodies that happen to be at a higher or a lower temperature .
This instrument , which he calls a Thermoscope , consists of two glass balls joined with and opening into the two ends of a glass tube , which is bent in two places at right angles , so that the balls , when the instrument is erected , are at the same horizontal height .
A small quantity ( about one drop ) of coloured spirits of wine was introduced into this tube before it was finally closed , which , when the temperature of the air in the whole tube and the two balls is equal , keeps its place nearly at the middle of the lower or horizontal part of the tube .
No sooner , however , does this perfect equilibrium cease , than the drop will move towards the side that is least heated .
A scale is here applied , which indicates the difference of the temperature of the air in the two sides of the tube , and in the respective balls .
A vertical screen between the two balls prevents the radiance of a heated body approached to one of them from affecting the other .
This instrument was found of so delicate a sensibility , that the naked hand presented to one of the balls at the distance of several inches , would put the spirit of wine in motion , and the approach of a person at some feet from it would immediately affect it .
A conjecture is now proposed , which this instrument was intended to elucidate and probably confirm .
There being great reason to conclude , that all the heat which a hot body loses when exposed to the air , is not given off to the air which comes into contact with it , but that a large proportion of it escapes in rays which do not heat the transparent medium through which they pass , but , like the rays of light , generate heat only then and there where they are intercepted and absorbed ; it may hence be concluded , that in general , as has been in particular observed in the foregoing experiments , the cooling of the instruments is in fact promoted by the coverings applied to their surfaces ; those coverings , considered as substances on which the rays impinge , being the means which in some way or other accelerate , or at least facilitate , the emission of calorific rays from the hot surfaces .
The first experiment , which has thrown some light upon this subject , was made with two brass cylinders equally heated , but in one of which one of the flat surfaces had been blackened , while the whole of the other cylinder was left in its polished state .
The black surface of the one , and one of the bright surfaces of the other , were presented to the two opposite balls of the thermoscope , each to each , and at equal distances .
Here the little column of spirit of wine in the tube beneath was instantly driven out of its place by the superior action of the blackened surface , and did not return to its former 43 station till the effect was compensated by proportionably altering the distances of the heated cylinders from the balls .
In some further experiments , instead of blackening one of the flat surfaces of one of the cylinders , the other coverings used in the foregoing trials were applied , and the results were such as might have been expected .
They all tended to prove that different bodies , or rather different surfaces , emit heat not by any conducting power in themselves , or in the surrounding bodies , but by a power which is here called radiation , the nature of which had hitherto escaped our notice .
Several experiments were next made with heated cylinders of different metals , but the results proved that .
all metals give off heat with the same facility , or rather with the same celerity .
May not this , it is asked , be owing to their being all equally wanting in transparency ?
And does not this afford us a strong presumption that heat is in all cases excited and communicated by means of radiations , or as they may more properly be called undulations ?
Before these questions can be solved , another and a very important point in this inquiry must be decided , viz. whether bodies are cooled in consequence of the rays they emit , or by those they receive ?
Our author was manifestly led to this problem by the celebrated experiment of Prof. Pictet , from which it appears that rays or emanations which ( like light ) may be concentrated by concave mirrors , proceed from cold bodies ; and that these rays when so concentrated , are capable of affecting an air thermometer in a manner perfectly perceptible .
The first experiment on this subject was to ascertain the existence of these cold emanations universally ; and this being successfully effected , it is proved by other processes , the detail of which would far exceed our bounds , that the radiation of cold as well as of hot bodies being established , the rays which proceed from cold bodies have likewise the power of generating cold in warmer bodies which are exposed to their influence .
The object of another set of experiments was to ascertain whether all cold bodies at the same temperature emit the same quantity of rays ; or whether ( as is the case with respect to the calorific rays emitted by hot bodies , ) some substances emit more of them than others .
Here it was a great gratification to the author to find in the first experiment that the frigorific rays , from a blackened metallic surface , were much more powerful in generating cold than those which proceeded from a similar metallic surface of exactly the same temperature , but without any coating .
Observing that the approach of the hand to one of the balls of the thermoscope affected the indications very sensibly and rapidly , it occurred that perhaps animal substances emit both calorific and frigorific rays more copiously than other substances , and that probably living animal bodies emit them in still greater abundance than dead animal matter .
This was confirmed by a very conclusive experiment , in which one of the metallic surfaces was covered with goldbeater 's skin , and which surface emitted at least twenty-five times more calorific rays than a naked surface .
The frigorific rays from the animal substance were likewise found to be much more efficacious in producing cold than those from the polished surface ; though in what proportion could not be ascertained with any degree of accuracy .
In general , however , there is every reason to conclude that at equal intervals of temperature , the rays which generate cold are just as real and just as intense as those which generate heat , or that their actions are equally powerful in changing the temperature of neighbouring bodies .
Our author , ever doubtful of the existence of the caloric of the modern chemists , thinks himself authorized here to throw out the following observation respecting that favourite hypothesis .
On a supposition that caloric has a real existence , and that heat or an increase of temperature in any body is caused by an accumulation of that substance in such body , the reflection of cold would indeed be impossible ; and to maintain its reality must to all unprejudiced minds appear an absurdity .
By further experiments it is proved that all those circumstances which are favourable to the copious emission of calorific rays from the surfaces of hot bodies , are equally favourable to the copious emission of frigorific rays from such bodies when they are cold .
That , on the other hand , those substances which part with heat with the greatest facility or celerity , are those which acquire it also most readily .
Also that an animal substance , for instance goldbeater 's skin , will throw off more heat , and be more sensibly affected by the frigorific rays of colder bodies when blackened , than when they are of their natural colour .
This latter fact is applied as a proof of the great utility of the inhabitants of hot climates being of a black colour ; and it is suggested that Europeans might find some relief by availing themselves of this circumstance when they visit the torrid zone .
It is also surmised that the custom of savages inhabiting cold countries , of besmearing their bodies with oil or other unctuous matter , may have its utility by enabling their skins to reflect the parching frigorific rays that reach them from the atmosphere .
Another subject , which is here minutely investigated , is to ascertain what proportion of the heat emitted by a hot body is acquired or retained by the circumambient air ; and the result yielded by several experiments and calculations turns out , rather unexpectedly , that this proportion is so little as -rth of the whole .
And it is also proved that a heated body , of a globular form , being suspended in the centre of another larger thin hollow sphere , at the same temperature as the air and the walls of the room , the vicinity of the two surfaces will sensibly retard the cooling of the hot body ; and that if instead of one there be a number of thin concentric spheres of different diameters , the retardation of the cooling will be still greater .
Combining with this the results of some former experiments , from which it appears that the cooling will be slower when the opposite surfaces are bright , than when they are unpolished or blackened , some inferences are derived concerning the warmth of different substances used as clothing , their effect in this respect , consistently with the hypothesis of radiation , depending very much on the polish of their surfaces .
Thus if those substances which supply the warmest coverings , such as furs , feathers , silk , &amp;c. be viewed through a microscope , we shall find the surfaces of their fibres or minute laminae not only smooth , but also very highly polished : and those substances will be warmest which excel in these respects , the fine white shining fur of a Russian hare being -much warmer than coarse hair ; and finte silk , as spun by the silk-woxm , being preferable for warmth to the same silk twisted together into coarse threads .
A considerable part of the paper is now bestowed on the theory of heat , which the author attempts to deduce from the foregoing facts and observations .
Heat and cold , he says , like fast and slow , are mere relative terms ; and as there is no relation between motion and rest , so there can be none between any degree of heat and absolute cold , or a total privation of heat .
It has long been thought , and it appears more and more probable , that motion is an essential quality inherent in all matter : this is illustrated by many examples ; and by applying the analogy above given , and the observations since brought forward , there seems every reason to believe that , without having recourse to any specific element , all the phenomena of heat may be accounted for by the simple operations of motion ; or that motion , in fact , constitutes the heat or temperature of sensible bodies .
It will no doubt occur that this theory will hardly account for the effects of frigorific rays ; but this objection is answered by the observation , that as the rapid undulations occasioned il the surrounding ethereal fluid by the swift vibrations of a heated body will ' act as calorific rays on the neighbouring colder solid bodies ; so the slower undulations occasioned by the vibrations of a cold body , will act as frigorific rays on neighbouring bodies of a higher temperature ; and that these reciprocal actions will continue , but with decreasing intensity , till the two bodies have acquired the same degree of temperature , or until their vibrations have become isochronous .
According to this hypothesis , cold can with no more propriety be considered as the absence of heat , than a low or grave sound can be considered as the absence of a higher or more acute note ; and the admission of rays which generate cold ' involves no absurdity , and creates no confusion of ideas .
As this theory , however , entirely supersedes the hypothesis of the calorific element , of late so much resorted to , it may be inmagined that the author would not discuss the controversy in a slight or superficial manner ; and accordingly many pages are here dedicated to this intricate and abstruse disquisition .
Among other important points , it was necessary to reconcile solidity , hardness , and elasticity , with the incessant motion he ascribes to the constituent particles of matter , and to obviate the objection founded on a supposition that there is not room sufficient for this motion .
What increases the perplexity is , that , admitting the changes of temperature in bodies to be the effect of the calorific and frigorific radiations above described , a particular nicety will be required to distinguish between the effects of those simultaneous operations , and of ascertaining their relative intensities .
A hot body , A for instance , heats a neighbouring colder body B , by its calorific radiations ; but B emits at the same time frigorific radiations , which contribute to lower the temperature of A ; nor is it clear that both these bodies , especially if they have polished surfaces , will not reciprocally , and perhaps repeatedly , reflect those incident rays , and that those rays will not be refracted by the media through which they pass , and be concentrated or expanded by the shapes of the reflecting surfaces , and thus create a combination of effects , which it will require much labour and ingenuity to unravel .
As it is impossible for us within our narrow limits to do justice to the connected series of observations and arguments here adduced , we shall refer those who wish for more ample information on the subject to the paper itself ; and this the rather , that we may dwell more largely upon the practical uses that may be derived from a knowledge of the facts which the author now considers as fully established .
In all cases where it is intended to preserve the heat of any substance which is confined in a metallic vessel , it will greatly contribute to that end if the external surface of that vessel be kept very clean and bright ; but if the object be to cool anything quickly in such a vessel , its external surface should be painted , or coloured with some of those substances which have been found to emit calorific radiations in abundance .
Hence the sides of kitchen utensils should be kept bright , in order to confine the heat ; while their bottoms should be blackened , in order that their contents may be made to boil sooner , and with a less expense of fuel .
Brewers , it seems , are mistaken when they employ broad shallow vessels , or flats , as they call them , of metal for cooling their wort .
Wooden flats , it appears , ought in every respect to have the preference .
In all cases when metallic tubes , filled with steam , are used for warming rooms or hot-houses , the external surface of those tubes should be painted , or covered with some substance which facilitates the emission of calorific rays .
Where , on the other hand , tubes are intended to convey hot steam from one place to another , they should be kept very clean and bright .
This applies also to the cylinders of steam-engines , and the principal tubes used in that machine .
Gardeners should advert to the circumstance , that if walls painted black acquire heat faster when exposed to the sun 's direct rays , they likewise cool much faster during the night , and in the shade when the weather is cold .
Black cloths are known to be very war m in the sun ; but they are far from being so in the shade , especially in cold weather , when the temperature of the air is below that of the surface of the skin .
It having been shown that the warmth of clothing depends much on the polish of the surface of the substance of which it is made , we may conclude that in choosing the colour of our winter garments , those dyes should be avoided which tend most to destroy that polish .
Hence there is reason to think that , contrary to the general opinion , white garments are warmer than any other in cold weather ; and indeed if they are well calculated to reflect calorific rays in summer , they ought to be equally well calculated to reflect those frigorific rays by which we are annoyed in winter .
Fur garments have been found by experience to be much warmer in cold weather , when worn with the hair outwards , than when it is turned inwards .
This is alleged as a proof that we are kept warm by our clothing not so much by confining the heat of our bodies , as by repelling those frigorific rays which tend to cool us .
The fur of several delicate animals we know becomes white in winter in cold countries ; and bears which inhabit the polar regions are likewise known to be white in all seasons. .
Now if , in fact , as there is great reason to believe , white is the colour most favourable to the reflection of calorific and frigorific rays , it must be acknowledged that these animals have been greatlyfavoured in having a clothing assigned them so well adapted to their local circumstances .
The excessive cold which is known to prevail , in all seasons , on the tops of high mountains , and the frosts at night which frequently take place on the surface of the plains below , seem to indicate that frigorific rays arrive continually at the surface of the earth from every part of the heavens ; and it is no doubt by the action of these rays that our planet is continually cooled , and enabled to preserve the same mean temperature for ages , notwithstanding the immense quantities of heat that are generated at its surface by the continual action of the solar rays .
The action of these frigorific nocturnal rays will likewise justify the inhabitants of hot climates , who , in order to be more cool during their hours of rest , remove their beds in summer to the tops of their houses .

