]\gt ; 1885 .
] Dynamical ciples to Physical Phenomena .
67 those which involve the product of the differential coefficients of coordinates of the and of the and types .
Thus we may write those terms which depend on the coordinates , in the ession for the kinetic energy of any real dynamical system , in the form . .
{ zz } .
when the . .
indicates a quadratic function of the differential coefficients of the coordinates of the type .
Each of these terms is separately COIlsidered , and the physical phenomena to which it corresponds are deduced .
The method used may be illustrated by considering a term of the form when amd may be any of the five types of coordinates which we are considering .
Then , if be the kinetic energy , we have by Lagrange 's equations force of the type If , instead of , we consider the term , we see by this equation , and the corresponding equation for the coordinate that if this exist there will be a force tending to increase equal to and one tending to increase , equal to and if be a function of any other coordinate there will a force tending to increase equal to Thus , to take an example , Wiedemann has discovered that a longitudimally magnetised iron wire becomes twisted when an current flows through it .
If we call the current through the wire , the intensity of magnetisation , and the twist round the axis so that , if we twist a magnetised iron wire , an electric current wilI flow along the wire , which will last as long as the wire is being twisted : this is known to be the case .
Again , there will be a force of the type , a magnetising force along the wire equal to so that when a current flows along a twisted wire it magnetises it ; this effect has also been observed .
Thus , from the original experiment , we have been able , by the use of Lagrange 's equation , to deduce two othex phenomena .
It is shown in the paper that the method indicates a great many relations betweetl various physical phenomena .
Some of these have been observed , but there are several which seem not to have been investigated ; as an example of the latter , it is proved that from the effect .by Villari and Sir William Thomson , namely , that when the intensity of magnetisation is below a certain value , an increase in the strain of a magnetised soft iron is accompanied by an in the magnetisation , it follows that when the magnetising force is small , a soft iron bar will contract instead of expanding on netisation .
Lagrange 's equations were applied with great success by Maxwell to obtain the equations of the electromagnetic field .
It is also shown that the effects due to the potential energy of a system A can be produced by the kinetic energy of a system connected with , if the configuration of is such that it can be fixed by gyroscopic coordinates .
And thus we may look on the potential energy of any system ( A ) as being the kinetic of a gyroscopic system ( B ) connected with , and so regard all energy as kinetic .
If we do this it will simplify some of the dynamical principles very much .
We may take the principle of Varying Action as an example : if all the energy is kinetic , its magnitude will remain constant by the Conservation of Energy , and then the principle of Least Action takes the very simple form that , with a given quantity of energy , any material system will , by its unguided motion , pass from one configuration to another in the least possible time , where , in the 1885 .
] A lVew Constituent of the Blood and its lmport .
69 phrase " " material system we include the gyroscopic systems whose motions produce the same effect as the potential energy of the original system , and two configurations are not supposed to coincide unless the configurations of these systems coincide also .
V. " " On a New Constituent of the Blood and its Physiological Import By L. C. WOOLDRIDGE , D.Sc .
, M.B. , Demonstrator of Physiology in Guy 's Hospital .
Communicated by Professor M. FOSTER , Sec. R.S. Received December 16 , 1884 .
In a paper on the Origin of the Fibrin Ferment , published in " " ' Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 36 , I showed that there exists , dissolved in the plasma , a body which can give rise to fibrin ferment .
I have with my investigations , and have succeeded in making some additions to our knowledge of this subject , which I here describe .
As my resealches are not complete , I confine myself to as brief an account as possible .
The subject is best studied in the blood of peptonised dogs .
But as I showed in the above quoted paper , similar resuIts are obtained from normal salt plasma , so that the results are not peculiar to pepton blood .
The body , the presence of which gives rise to fibrin 4erment , can be isolated from pepton plasma in the following very simple manner:\mdash ; The plasma having been completely freed from all corpuscular elements by means of the centrifuge , is cooled down to about .
The plasma , which was previously perfectly clear , becomes rapidly turbid , and after standing for some time in the cool , a very decided flocculent precipitate forms .
I have ah.eady described this observation in a short note , " " Ueber einen neuen Stoff des BlutPlasmas in du Bois Reymond 's " " Archiv fur Physiologie but it is necessary for me to allude to it here .
Now it is this body which gives rise to the fibrin ferment .
So long as the former is present in considerable quantity the latter cIots readily on passing through it a stream of carbonic acid , or on dilution , and at the same time a very considerable quantity of fibrin ferment makes its appearance .
By prolonged cooling the greater part of this substance can be removed , and with its gradual removal the plasma clots less and less readily with , and less and less ferment is formed , till finally it becomes practically incoagulable , i. e. , forms only a faint trace of fibrin after several days .
If some of the substance be again added to the plasma , it regains its power of clotting with ( The substance must be added bsfore it has stood very long : see under .
)

