On some Palaeolithic Implements found Somaliland .
19 ( 15 ) The prominences mnst be fed from the outer parts of the solar atmosphere , since their spectra show lines which are absent from the spectrum of the chromosphere .
( 16 ) The absence of the Fraunhofer lines from the integrated spectra of the solar surroundings and uneclipsed photosphere shortly after totality need not necessarily imply the existence of a reversing layer .
( 17 .
) The spectrum of the base of the sun 's atmosphere , as recorded by the prismatic camera , contains only a small number of lines as compared with the Fraunhofer spectrum .
Some of the strongest bright lines in the spectrum of the chromosphere are not represented by dark lines in the Fraunhofer spectrum , and some of the most intense Fraunhofer lines were not seen bright in the spectrum of the chromosphere .
The so-called " reversing layer " is therefore incompetent to produce the Fraunhofer spectrum by its absorption .
( 18 ) Some of the Fraunhofer lines are produced by absorption taking place in the chromosphere , while others are produced by absorption at higher levels .
( 19 ) The eclipse work strengthens the view that chemical substances are dissociated at solar temperatures .
" On some Palaeolithic Implements found in Somaliland by Mr. H. W. Seton-Karr .
" By Sir John Evans , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , Treas .
and V.P.R.S. Received April 27\#151 ; Read April 30 , 1896 .
Although some account of his recent discoveries in Somaliland ( tropical Africa ) has already been given to the Anthropological Institute by Mr. Seton-Karr , and has been published in their Journal , * these discoveries seem to me to have so wide an interest , and such an important bearing on the question of the original home of the human race , that I venture to call the attention of this Society to them .
In the course of more than one visit to Somaliland for sporting purposes , Mr. Seton-Karr noticed , and brought home for examination , a number of worked flints , mostly of no great size , which he laid before the Anthropological Section of the British Association , at the meeting last year at Ipswich.f Although many of these specimens were broad flat flakes trimmed along the edges so as to be of the " le Moustier type " of M. Gabriel de Mortillet , and although the general facies of the collection was suggestive of the implements being of palaeolithic age , they did not afford sufficient evidence to enable a satisfactory judgment to be formed whether they undoubtedly belonged to the palaeolithic period .
* Vol. 25 , p. 271 .
f Eeport , 1895 , p. 824 .
20 On some Palaeolithic Implements found Somaliland .
Before returning to Somaliland , Mr. Seton-Karr visited my collections , and studied the various forms of implements found in the river-gravels and Pleistocene deposits in different parts of the world , so as to become familiar with their leading features and on revisiting Somaliland during the past winter , he was fortunate enough to meet with a large number of specimens in form absolutely identical with some from the valley of the Somme and other places which he had seen in my collection .
Of this identity in form there can be no doubt , and though at present no fossil mammalian or other remains have been found with the implements , we need not hesitate in claiming them .as palseolithic .
They seem to be scattered all over the country , and to have been washed out of sandy or loamy deposits by the action of rain , or , in some instances , to have been laid bare by the wind .
They appear also to occur most frequently in the neighbourhood of existing watercourses , which is at all events suggestive of the beds in which they occur having been in some manner the result of river-action .
It is , however , at present premature to enlarge on the circumstances of their discovery .
Their great interest consists in the identity of their forms with those of the implements found in the Pleistocene deposits of North Western Europe and elsewhere .
Any one comparing the implements from such widely separated localities , the one with the other , must feel that if they have not been actually made by the same race of men , there must have been some contact of the closest kind between the races who manufactured implements of such identical forms .
Those from Somaliland occur in both flint ( much whitened and decomposed by exposure ) and in quartzite , but the implements made from the two materials are almost indistinguishable in form .
Those of lanceolate shape are most abundant , but the usual ovate and other forms are present in considerable numbers .
Turning westward from Somaliland we meet with flint implements of the same character found by Professor Flinders Petrie at a height of many hundred feet above the valley of the Nile .
A few have been discovered in Northern Africa , they recur in the valley of the Manzanares in Spain , in some districts in Central Italy , and abound in the river-valleys of France and England .
Turning eastward we encounter implements of analogous forms , one found by M. Chantre in the valley of the Euphrates , and many made of quartzite in the laterite deposits of India ; while in Southern Africa almost similar types occur , though their age is somewhat uncertain .
that the cradle of the human family must have been situated iu some part of the world where the climate was genial , and the means of subsistence readily obtained , seems almost self-evident ; and that these discoveries m Somaliland may serve to elucidate the course by which human civilisation , such as it was , if not indeed the human On the Liquation of certain Alloys of Gold .
race , proceeded westward from its early home in the east is a fair subject for speculation .
But , under any circumstances , this discovery aids in bridging over the interval between palaeolithic man in Britain and in India , and adds another link to the chain of evidence by which the original cradle of the human family may eventually be identified , and tends to prove the unity of race between the inhabitants of Asia , Africa , and Europe , in Palaeolithic times .
" On the Liquation of certain Alloys of Gold .
" By Edward MATTHEY , F.S.A. , F.C.S. , Assoc. R.S.M. Communicated by Sir G. G. Stokes , Bart. , F.R.S. Received April 14 , \#151 ; Read May 7 , 1896 .
The molecular distribution of the metals in alloys of gold and of metals of the platinum group has been described by me at some length , in a series of papers which have already been published by the Royal Society.* New interest in the subject has , however , arisen in connexion with the extraordinary development in various parts of the world especially in South Africa , of certain processes which are now employed for extracting gold from its ores .
Their use has been attended with the introduction into this country of a series of alloys of gold and the base metals which have hitherto rarely been met with in metallurgical industry .
The base metals associated with the gold in these cases are usually the very ordinary ones lead aijd zinc , but their presence in the gold has given rise to unexpected difficulties , as the distribution of the precious metal in the ingots which reach this country is so peculiar , that it is not possible to estimate the value of the ingots by taking the pieces of metal required for the assay , by any of the well-known methods now in use .
The grouping of the metal in these ingots presents much scientific as well as industrial interest , and the following is a brief statement of the facts which have been observed .
A. An ingot of gold weighing 3'545 kilograms was assayed with a view to subjecting it to the ordinary operation of refining .
A piece of metal was , therefore , cut from the base of the ingot at the point marked A , and the following are the results of four assays made on this piece of metal:\#151 ; Gold 1 665-8 2 663-6 3 662-4 4 658-0 Average ... .
662-45 * ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 183 , p. 629,1892 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 47 , p. 180 , 1890 .

