On the Formnation and some of the Properties of Cymidine , the Organic Base of the Cymole Series .
By the Rev. JOHN BARLOW , Chaplain-in-Ordinary to Her Majesty 's Household at Kensington Palace , M.A. , F.R.S. , Vice-President and Secretary oJ the Royal Institution of Great Britain , 8fc .
Received June 14 , -Read June 21 , 1855 .
BY submitting the nitro-compounds of the series of hydrocarbons , of which benzole is the lowest term , to ZININ'S well-known process , chemists have successively obtained the organic bases corresponding to these hydrocarbons .
Aniline , toluidine , xylidine and cumidine have been prepared in this manner .
Aniline was obtained by this process by ZININ himself in 1845 ; toluidine by MUSPRATT and HOFMANN t , in 1845 ; xylidine by CAHOURS + , in 1850 ; and cumidine by NICHOLSON , in 1847 ? .
Whilst the last-named chemist was engaged in the laboratory of the Royal College of Chemistry with the study of cumidine , the derivative of cumole , Dr. NOAD , at the suggestion of Dr. HOFMANN , pursued the same direction of research towards cymole , the only remaining hydrocarbon of this group , with a view of completing the series of the alkaloids [ | .
In his experiments on the action of concentrated nitric acid on cymole , Dr. NOAD found that this hydrocarbon differs somewhat from the other members of the series .
Instead of furnishing the nitro-substitute , which is the link of connexion between the hydrocarbon and the alkaloid , cymole was found to undergo a partial oxidation , a portion of the carbon being eliminated in the form of carbonic acid with the simultaneous formation of several acids which belong to a group of bodies standing lower in the scale of organic compounds .
The study of these very interesting acids , toluylic and nitrotoluylic , appears to have detached Dr. NOAD'S attention from the formation of the substitution-product of cymole ; and when he again returned to this inquiry he soon quitted it , in order to pursue still further a research in which he had already been successful [ .
At the suggestion , and under the direction of Dr. HOFMANN , the following investigation has been made , in the hope of filling up a gap still existing in the series of * Journal fiir practische Chemie , Band xxxvi .
S. 98 .
t Mem. Chem. Soc. vol. ii .
p. 367 .
t Comptes Rendus , tome xxx .
p. 321 . ?
" On Cumidine , a new Organic Base , " Reports of Royal College of Chemistry , p. 178 .
II Mem. Chem. Soc. vol. iii .
p. 421 . ?
T " On some of the Products of the Decomposition of Nitrotoluylic Acid , " Philosophical Transactions , vol. cxliv .
bases , and the desired alkaloid has been obtained ; thus completing the inquiry which was commenced in the Royal College of Chemistry seven years ago .
Preparation of Nitrocymole.-It has been already stated that cymole , when heated in the usual way with concentrated nitric acid , produces substances differing greatly from the expected substitution-compound .
To prevent this result , cymole and nitric acid , having been severally kept for some minutes in a freezing mixture of ice and salt , were cautiously mixed .
The cold cymole was dropped from a pipette into the cold nitric acid .
The mixture was at first brown , but , on continued addition of cymole , it gradually changed to green ; and when the substitution was complete , it assumed the consistency of cream .
It was then projected into cold water , when the oily reddish-brown nitrocymole subsided to the bottom of the vessel .
This was washed , first with water , and lastly , with a weak solution of carbonate of soda .
Properties of Nitrocymole .
In the purest state in which it has yet been obtained , nitrocymole is a reddish-brown , transparent , oily fluid , of greater specific gravity than water , in which it is insoluble .
It does not appear to be readily decomposed by contact of air .
When distilled with water it produces a neutral oil , which floats on water , than which it is , consequently , of less specific gravity .
It was found impossible to obtain the boiling-point either of nitrocymole or of this oily distillate , or to procure the body in a state fit for analysis .
But subsequent examination of substances derived from it removed all doubt that its composition is represented by the formula C,0 H , , N04 .
Formation of Cymidine from Nitrocymole.-The process of ZINTN , although successfully adopted in obtaining the lower bases of this series , was not found equally effectual when applied to this new substitution-product .
A better result , though the quantity was still very scanty , was obtained by BEcuHAMP'S modification of this method ~ .
Nitrocymole was added to iron-filings brought to the consistency of paste by mixture with acetic acid , whereupon an immediate and considerable elevation of temperature indicated the commencement of chemical action .
From the distillation of this mixture at a carefully-regulated heat a complicated product resulted .
A considerable proportion of the distillate was found to be insoluble in hydrochloric acid .
This was set aside for separate examination , the result of which will be stated at the close of this memoir .
T'o the portion of the distillate which was soluble in hydrochloric acid , soda was added in quantity just sufficient to neutralize the acid .
The base ( for which the name cymidine is suggested by obvious analogy ) was then separated by ether and subsequently distilled .
The same instability of composition , and tendency to oxidize , which have been noted as characterizing the hydrocarbon cymole , exist in this base , derived from it .
Accordingly , it was found necessary to perform the distillation in an atmosphere of hydrogen , in order to prevent the conversion of the cymidine , at a high temperature , into a resin .
* Annals de Chimie et de Physique , tome xlii .
p. 193 .
16 Properties of Cymnidine.-The specific gravity of cymidine is less than that of water .
Its boiling-point is about 250 ?
Cent. ; it has a yellow colour ; it is odorous ; it does not affect test-paper .
It is slightly soluble in water , and completely soluble in alcohol and ether .
The quantity of this alkaloid available for experiment was too small to admit of its being entirely purified by distillation .
It was therefore necessary to have recourse to the analysis of its platinum-salt for ascertaining its composition .
Platinum-salt of Cymidine.-When bichloride of platinum is added to an aqueous solution of the hydrochlorate of cymidine , a characteristic yellow salt is obtained , which , like cymidine itself , is slightly soluble in water , more soluble in alcohol , and most of all in ether .
I. 4598 grm. of this substance , burnt with chromate of lead and oxide of copper , gave '5695 grm. of Carbonic acid .
*1935 grrn .
of Water .
1270 gril .
of Platinum .
This , calculated for 100 parts , gives 33'777 Carbon .
4'675 Hydrogen .
27-620 Platinum .
II .
'4213 gril .
of the same substance , ignited , gave '1178 grim .
of platinum , which , calculated for 100 parts , gives 27'699 .
These numbers lead to the formula C20 H1 , N , HCI , PtCI , , as may be seen from the following comparison of the theoretical and experimental numbers : Theory .
Experiment .
Per cent. Per cent. 20 equivs. Carbon. .
120 33'784 33'777 16 equivs. Hydrogen .
16 4-505 4'675 1 equiv. Nitrogen. .
14 3'941 3 equivs. Chlorine. .
106*5 29'983 1 equiv. Platinum .
98*7 27'787 27o641 eement 7 Iexperiments .
1 equiv. Platinum-salt 355*2 100'000 Hydrochlorate of Cymidine.-When strong hydrochloric acid is added to cymidine , fumes are evolved , the hydrochlorate of cyrnidine , in the form of an oily layer , rises to the surface of the fluid , and crystallizes on being agitated and evaporated .
Like the salts of aniline , it stains firwood yellow , but , unlike these salts , it produces no reaction with the chloride of lime ; it also stains the skin red .
A determination of hydrochloric acid in the hydrochlorate of cymidine was made .
Weight of hydrochlorate taken ... '412 grm. Weight of chloride of silver ... .
319 grm. Fromn whence the per-centage number 19679 hydrochloric acid is obtained .
This number agrees with the per-centage corresponding to the formula C20 H , , N HCI , as will appear on comparing the theoretical and experimental numbers .
Theory .
Experiment .
Per cent. Per cent. 1 equivalent of Cymidine ... 149 80'281 1 equivalent of Hydrochloric acid .
36'5 19-719 19'679 1 equivalent of Hydrochlorate of Cymidine .
100 Sulphate of Cymidine.-A white crystalline salt , soluble in water .
Oxalate of Cymidine.-A white crystalline salt , soluble in water .
Gold Salt.-A yellow crystalline salt , slightly soluble in water .
Iodine has no perceptible reaction on cymidine .
Bromine produces a very feeble reaction on this base .
When chloride of cyanogen was added to cymidine , a slight action took place , and the resulting substance , after having been boiled with water , and filtered , gave a precipitate on the addition of caustic soda ; thus affording evidence of the presence of a salt of a new solid base , probably analogous to relaniline .
On adding chloride of benzoyle to cymidine , a slight action ensued , and a few minute crystals appeared , probably of benzo-cymidide .
Nitric acid acts violently on cymidine ; a semi-solid substance separating on addition of soda .
These are , however , merely qualitative experiments , and require further elaboration .
Examination of substance , insoluble in hydrochloric acid , produced during the formation of Cymidine .
Having been purified by repeated distillation , this substance was burnt with oxide of copper , when the following result was obtained:*2623 grm. gave '8615 carbonic acid and *2530 water .
The formula of cymole is C20 Hl .
On comparing the per-centage numbers derived from this formula with those obtained from the substance by experiment , we find Theory .
Experiment .
Per cent. Per cent. 10 equivalents of Carbon. .
120 89'552 89'213 14 equivalents of Hydrogen .
14 10'448 10-672 134 100'000 99'885 The chemical identity of this substance with cymole is thus established .
The boiling-point 175 ?
C. also coincides with that of camphogene , which is recognized as the isomer of cymole .
There is however an important physical distinction between cymole and this isomeric substance .
It has already been stated , that when cymole is submitted to the action of fuming nitric acid at 17 ?
C. a reddish-brown 18 nitrocymole is produced , which is specifically heavier than water .
But when this cymole-isomer ( o-cymole ) is similarly treated , there results a dark oily liquid , which , on being projected into water , first blackens , then becomes pale yellow , and finally floats on the surface , indicating a specific gravity less than that of water .
From this nitro-a-cymole , an a-cyrnidine was also obtained by BECHAMP'S process , and from this a platinum-salt was formed .
The platinum determination of this salt gave the following result : Weight of platinum-salt taken ... .
1840 grin .
Weight of platinum obtained ... .
0509 grm. This gave a per-centage weight of 27*662 platinum , differing only by *125 from the theoretical per-centage 27*787 , calculated from the formula C,0 H , N , HCI , PCI , .
Further researches are however necessary to establish the relation of this substance to cymidine .
An unsuccessful attempt to obtain the boiling-point of nitrocymole has been already noticed .
The distillate from this operation was lighter than water , and had the colour and general appearance of a-cymole ; when treated with fuming nitric acid in a freezing mixture , the resulting substance presented a close resemblance to nitroa-cymole .
Nitrocymole and cymidine , the formation of which is described in the preceding memoir , complete the series of nitro-substitutions and bases corresponding to the hydrocarbons , of which benzole is the lowest homologue , as will appear from the following synoptical table : Hydrocarbons .
Nitro-substitutions .
Bases .
Benzole C,1 H6 Nitrobenzole C,1 H , NO , Aniline C12 H N. Toluole C14 H Nitrotoluole C14 Hy NO4 Toluidine C14 H N. Xylole C , H , o Nitroxylole C , Hg , NO4 Xylidine C , H , N. Cumole C1 H12 Nitrocumole C , HNl NO4 .
Cumidine C1 , H1 , N. Cymole C20 H14 Nitrocymole C2 , H13NO4 Cymidine C , , HI , N. The author of this memoir desires , in conclusion , to record his sense of the valuable assistance he received from Mr. ALFRED NOBLE , Student in the College of Chemistry .
D2 19

