I. " On Spectrum Analysis ; with a Description of a large Spectroscope having nine Prisms , andAchromatic Telescopes of two-feet focal power .
" By JOIIN P. GAssIOr , F.R.S. Received April 21 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) The author , after briefly alluding to the discoveries of Fox Talbot , Wheatstone , Foucault , Kirchhoff , and Bunsen , and the importance of spectrum analysis , states that among the numerous spectroscopes which were exhibited in the International Exhibition of 1862 , there was one which had been specially constructed by Messrs. Spencer , Browning , and Co. , philosophical instrument makers in London , which at the time excited considerable attention .
This spectroscope had two prisms , with a magnifying power of 40 , its definition being remarkably clear .
The skill evinced by Mr. Browning in the construction of this instrument induced the author to have one made in which still better effects might be produced , by multiplying the number of prisms and increasing the magnifying power , with the necessary precaution to avoid as much as possible loss of light .
After a few preliminary trials , it was finally arranged to use nine prisms , which is the number that can be applied with this instrument , although the arrangements are such as to allow the whole or any less number to be used with the utmost facility .
Verniers and micrometer screws are attached to the knife-edges of the slit through which the light to be observed is admitted to the collimator and to the telescope , also to the large circle of the instrument ; these enable the observer to note the exact position of the lines observed in the spectrum from whatever source it is obtained , and thus enable him to repeat and verify previous results with the utmost exactitude .
When two small prisms , one refracting and the other reflecting , are fixed outside the knife-edge slit , spectra obtained from three separate sources can be simultaneously examined ; and an illuminated micrometer scale enables the observer to note the precise relative position of the lines in the three spectra without reference to or reading off from the verniers .
By this arrangement a most interesting spectacle may be obtained , showing in the uppermost portion of the field of view the spectrum of thallium , strontium , or lithium , ignited in the flame of a Bunsen 's gas-burner ; in the centre of the field the spectrum of the same substance in the oxyhydrogen blowpipe , and at the bottom one in the voltaic arc ; each successive spectrum there exhibits an increased number of lines .
With this spectroscope the author has ascertained that the green line of thallium , so celebrated for its integrity , and hitherto believed .
to coincide with one of the lines in the spectrum of baryta , does not so coincide ; for by employing the nine prisms with a power of 80 on the telescope , the thallium line is clearly seen to occupy a dark space in the baryta spectrum , close by the side of the bright line with which it was supposed to coincide .
A range of prisms is adapted to the telescope , the highest of which , when used in conjunction with the amplifying lens , gives a power of 110 with good definition .
The author states that the results already obtained by this instrument have been so satisfactory as to leave him no cause to regret the time that has been devoted to , or the expense that has been incurred in the construction of this truly beautiful apparatus .
A full description of the instrument is introduced , with several diagrams showing the construction and adaptation of the different parts of the apparatus , and two drawings , one showing the general appearance of the instrument when prepared for observation , and the other representing it as seen when viewed from above .

