The Conversion of Diamond into Coke in High Vacuum by Cathode Rays .
By the Hon. Charles A. Parsons , C.B. , F.R.S. , and Alan A. Campbell Swinton .
( Received December 10 , 1907 , \#151 ; Read January 16 , 1908 .
) The objects of the experiment were three-fold : firstly , to ascertain whether a diamond could be entirely converted into coke or graphite by heating in a vacuum by cathode rays ; secondly , in the event of this being found practicable , to make a determination by Fery 's optical pyrometer of the temperature at which the conversion takes place ; thirdly , to endeavour to ascertain if , during the conversion , any gas was emitted or absorbed by the carbon .
The vacuum tube employed is shown in the illustration , where A and B are the two aluminium electrodes , C the diamond and D an air-tight ground-glass stopper joint , through which the diamonds were introduced .
xHternating current was employed , each of A and B acting as cathode and anode in turn , while their concave curvature was such as to accurately focus the cathode rays on to the diamond .
The latter was supported on a plate of iridium , which , in turn , rested in a platinum cup , this arrangement being designed to prevent any stray cathode rays which might miss the diamond from striking the glass walls of the tube and melting the latter .
During the experiment the tube was connected to two mercury pumps of the Toepler type , and in connection with the tube there were also attached two spectrum analysis discharge tubes for the purpose of collecting and examining some of the residual gas in the tube , both before and after the conversion of the diamond into coke .
The alternating current from the mains , which was of 85 periods per second , was passed through the primary of a 10-inch Rhumkorff coil , with the contact-breaker and condenser disconnected , with an adjustable choking 5calc d INCH ' Conversion of Diamond into Coke by Cathode Rays .
185 coil in series in the primary circuit , so that the secondary voltage could be varied from about 5000 to 12,000 volts .
A reflecting milliampere-meter was employed to read the current through the tube , while the volts across the tube 's terminals were measured by an electrostatic voltmeter .
Two diamonds , each about 0*2 inch in diameter , were experimented with .
The first was entirely converted into coke without difficulty , while in the case of the second the process was stopped when most of it had been so converted , the residue being black throughout its mass .
As the proper degree of vacuum was reached by working the mercury pumps , and as the volts were raised , the diamond in each case became red , and then intensely white hot , till , with about , 8000 volts and 44 milliamperes ( 352 watts ) passing through the tube , the diamond began to throw off small sparks .
On the volts being increased to 9600 , and the current rising to 45*5 milliamperes ( 436 watts ) , the sparks thrown off became more numerous and the diamond commenced to become black .
Finally , with 11,200 volts and 48 milliamperes ( 537 watts ) , a rapid disintegration of the diamond took place , with considerable increase in volume , the residue having much the appearance and consistency of coke .
The temperature of the diamond , as given by the pyrometer during disintegration , was 1890 ' C. During the heating up of the diamond and of the tube , large amounts of gas were driven off , and had to be pumped out , but there was nothing to indicate that any of this gas originated from the diamond rather than from the metal parts and glass walls of the tube .
Two experiments were made , and in the latter there was distinct indication of a rise in vacuum just about the time of the conversion .
These rises in vacuum are , however , not unusual in tubes in which there is highly heated metal , and it was impossible to decide whether any of the absorption of gas took place in the diamond .
In the experiment in question , one of the spectrum discharge tubes was sealed off just before the conversion , when the diamond was commencing to blacken on the surface , while the other was sealed off after the diamond had been converted into coke .
These two tubes , therefore , respectively contained samples of the residual gas before and after the conversion .
Their spectra have been photographed alongside of one another , but though they are not altogether the same , the differences do not appear sufficiently marked to determine with exactitude any variation in the nature of the gases present .
The experiments were arranged and carried out by Mr. Swinton at his laboratory in London .

