510 On Non-linear Partial Differential Equations K [ Junel are obtained , I have developed more in detail some special cases i : interest .
For the convenience of the reader , I have in S 1 briefly recapitulat the principal parts of the two papers above quoted .
In S 2 1 have give : at all events , a first sketch of a general theory of multiple contact wi : quadrics ; in S 3 the particular cases of three- , four- , five- , and si pointic contact are discussed ; and in S 4 some conditions for the exis ence of points of four- , five- , six-pointic single ( i. e. not multiple ) conta are established .
Thus far the investigation concerns the contact of quadrics only wit other surfaces .
The concluding part of the paper is concerned with tl corresponding problem for cubics , in which case conditions of possibilil do not arise for simple or two-pointic contact , but are first met with f\lt ; three-pointic contact .
The conditions in question , with some of the consequences , are here given ; and their complexity will perhaps l sufficient justification for not pursuing the subject further in thi direction .
VII .
c\lt ; On the Theory of the Solution of a System of Simultaneou Non-linear Partial Differential Equations of the First Order/ By E. J. Nanson .
Communicated by Prof. Cayley , F.R.S Received June 5 , 1875 . .
( Abstract .
) Given an equation of the form z-f { seva ?
2 , ... .
a\gt ; n+mi av ... anV we obtain by differentiation with respect to each of the n-\-m independen1 variables ocv cc2 , ... .
#n+OT , and elimination of the n arbitrary constant av a2 , ... an , a system of m+1 non-linear partial differential equations o : the first order .
Of this system the given equation may be said to be i " complete primitive .
" Conversely , given a system of non-linear partial differential equations of the first order* it is proposed to determine the conditions which musi be satisfied in order that the system may admit of a complete primitive , and also to examine what kind of solution , if any , exists when the con-ditions above referred to are not satisfied .
The late Professor Boole has given an elegant method of treating a system of linear partial differential equations of the first order ; but the present memoir relates to a more general system , which appears not to have been hitherto considered , viz. to a non-linear system of partial differential equations .
This is here discussed in the two cases\#151 ; first , when the dependent variable z is not explicitly involved in the proposed system ; and , secondly , when z is explicitly involved in the system , the solution of this last case being made to depend upon that of the first-mentioned one .

