A Narrative of the Eruption of a Volcano in the Sea off the Island of St. Michael .
By S. Tillard , Esq. Captain in the Royal Navy , Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read February 6 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 152 .
] The eruption here described by Capt. Tillard was first observed by him on the 12th of June , 1811 , having burst forth only two days before .
It had been preceded by another eruption in the month of January , about three miles distant .
Having come to anchor on the 13th in the road of Porta del Garda , Capt. Tillard set off on the following morning with some other gentlemen , for the purpose of witnessing the phenomena from the adjacent cliffs of St. Michael .
The place of the eruption was scarcely a mile from the base of the cliff , which was nearly perpendicular , and about 400 feet high .
In the most quiescent state of the volcano , there appeared a circular body of smoke over the surface of the water , in continual rotatory motion , extending itself to leeward ; but suddenly a column of very black ashes and cinders would shoot up , in the form of a spire , inclined from ten to twenty degrees from the perpendicular ; and , again , a second , third , and fourth column , each overtopping the preceding , till the last appeared more above the level of the eye than the sea was below it .
When the first impetus that raised the column ceased , the smoke was seen to break into various fanciful forms ; some ascending by their proper levity , others carried downwards by the particles of falling ashes , so as to give the appearance of pendent plumes of black and white .
These bursts were always accompanied by vivid flashes of lightning in the densest part , and followed by a succession of waterspouts that appeared drawn up by the masses of smoke as they rolled .
away before the wind .
The part of the sea where the volcano was situated was known to be full thirty fathoms deep ; but in the course of the time that Capt. Tillard and his friends were watching it , a ridge was seen to project above the surface of the water ; and before they quitted the cliff , which was in about three hours , a complete crater was formed , apparently 400 or 500 feet in width , and elevated on the leeward side not less than twenty feet in height .
The great eruptions were generally attended with sounds like the firing of cannon or musquetry , and often with slight shocks of earthquake .
On the next day the volcano continued to emit clouds of black smoke and ashes , but was comparatively tranquil .
On the succeeding day , however , the eruptions were repeated with still greater violence than before ; and the quantity of matter thrown up subsequent to this period was , so great , that upon Capt. Tillard 's return to St. Michael 's on the 4th of July , one side of the crater was elevated nearly eighty yards above the level of the sea , and the circuit of it so nearly complete , that the channel of communication between the inside and outside was not more than six yards over , and the water within was boiling hot .
The beach was also proportionally heated ; so that although by rowing round to the leeward side Capt. Tillard was able to land on the outer margin , the heat prevented his ascending at that part more than a few yards .
The inclination also was so steep on all sides , as to occasion considerable difficulty in the attempt to reach the summit .
The declivity below the surface of the sea was such , that at the distance of twenty or thirty yards the depth was found to be twenty-five fathoms .
A portion , about sixty feet in length , on one side of the opening being separated into a sort of peninsula , this part was chosen for ascending , by means of a narrow isthmus of cinders , that connected it with the rest of the circumference of the crater .
When Capt. Tillard had ascended the ridge , it was found too narrow to walk upon , the descent within being as steep as that on the outside .
But the ridge gradually widened toward the other extremity , which was elevated between twenty and thirty feet from the sea , with a fiat top , bounded by a precipice on one side of the channel of entrance .
Within the crater was found the skeleton of a guard-fish , so burned as to break to pieces on attempting to take it up ; and it was said that great numbers of fish had been destroyed by the eruption , and thrown dead upon the coast of St. Michael .
The general material of which this mound consisted , was found to be a spongy substance like cinders , to which stones had been reduced by the action of heat ; but there were also other portions of stone that had undergone no such alteration .

