1889 .
] On the Detection of dissolved Chemical Compounds , 265 January 17 , 1889 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " A Method of detecting dissolved Chemical Compounds and their Combining Proportions .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The method described and illustrated by examples in this research is an application of the " voltaic balance " to the measurement of the amount of voltaic energy of electrolytes ( see ' Roy .
Soc. Proe .
, ' vol. 44 , pp. 151 and 294 ) , and is based upon the general truth that " when substances chemically combine they lose some of their power of exciting a voltaic couple , " and the amount of this power can be measured by means of the " voltaic balance .
" ( Sketch .
) The method is briefly as follows : Oppose and balance the current from a small voltaic couple of unamalgamated zinc and platinum in a known quantity of distilled water in a small glass vessel through a sufficiently sensitive galvanometer , by that from a perfectly similar couple , and take care by occasionally heating the platinum to redness , to avoid error caused by absorption of hydrogen .
Dissolve in separate , equal , and known quantities of distilled water a series of several mixtures of the two constituents A and B of the supposed compound , in the proportions of their atomic or molecular weights , and multiples of them , some having an excess of A , and others of B. For instance , if both are monads mix them ill the several proportions represented by the formulae 5A+4B , 4A+4B , and 4A+5B ; but if A is a monad and B a dyad , then use the proportions indicated by 3A+2B , 4A + 2B , and 5A + 2B .
Add sufficiently minute quantities in succession of one of these solutions to the water of one of the voltaic couples until the needles 0 galvanometer visibly commence to move , and note the amount ^ded .
Recharge the vessel with distilled water , clean the metals , \amp ; nd repeat the experiment with another of the solutions ; and so on Uatd all the solutions have been tried , and the mixture has been v'i " xlv .
JC .
Mr. Gr .
Gore .
[ Jan. 17( found of which the largest proportion is required to move the needles , that is the one which has the smallest proportion of voltaic energy , and which has its constituents chemically united in definite proportion by weight without an excess of either ingredient in a chemically free state .
The following is an example .
The combining proportion is the one which gives the smallest amount of voltaic energy , and its formula is indicated by a star ( * ) .
K2S04 + KN03 .
KNOa Between 1 part in Temp. 10,333 and 11,350 parts of water at 20 ' C. . .
Average .
1 part in . .
10,841 K2SO4 + 100KNO3. .
163 " 182 99 99 .
\#171 ; ... 172 2K2S04 + 5KN03 ... .
55 " 60 99 18 57 2K2SO4 + 4KNO3* ... 50 " 54 99 99 .
52 2K2SO4 + 8KN03 58 " 64 99 99 . .
61 iook\lt ; , so4 + kno3 870 " 975 99 ' 20 922 k2so4 2,132 " 2,396 99 12 , . .
2,274 The compound is represented by the molecular formula\#151 ; K2S04,2KN03 .
By means of a number of suitable examples of this kind , the author shows that the dissolved substances unite together in the definite proportions by weight of their ordinary chemical equivalents .
The results of several experiments indicate the existence of multiple combining proportion in a feeble degree .
Evidence is given of the existence in solution of compounds represented by the formulae KC1 , C1 , \#151 ; KBr , Br , and KI , I , and these results are confirmed by means of comparative colour measurements .
The question of the limit of complexity of chemical combination of substances whilst in solution together in water is experimentally investigated , and although a definite compound was formed having the formula K2S04,16KN03,4AmCl,2NaCl,8KCl,32LiCl , the limit of possible complexity did not appear to be nearly reached .
With regard to the general question , does every electrolytic sub-ptance when dissolved in water unite in definite proportions by weight with every other such dissolved substance ?
The author states that he has examined by the foregoing method more than 180 different mixtures of such bodies , but has not found one in which definite chemical union is not more or less clearly indicated by a minimum amount of voltaic energy , coinciding with the proportions of W ordinary chemical equivalents of the substances .
The mixtures be examined included all classes of these substances , viz. , of elements ' with elements ; elements with monobasic , bibasic , and tribasic acids , acids of all these classes with each other ; elements with monobasic , 1889 .
] On the Detection of dissolved Chemical Compounds .
bibasic , tribasic , and tetrabasic salts ; monobasic , bibasic , and tribasic acids with all these classes of salts , and all these salts with each other in similar great variety .
And he concludes that the relation of voltaic energy to chemical combining proportion , as already stated , is a general one , and that every electrolytic substance when dissolved in water unites chemically in definite proportions by weight with every other such dissolved body , provided no separation of substance occurs .
And that they unite to form compounds of apparently unlimited complexity .
The method may be employed to ascertain the degrees of valency of substances , the basicity of acids , \amp ; c. It may also be used to test the purity of soluble bodies , and ( as previously stated ) to examine the internal constitution of electrolytes ; and the author is now using it for the two latter purposes .
It is capable of extensive application ; by it the state of union , whether chemical or of mere mechanical mixture ( possibly also the relative strength of chemical union ) of nearly every electrolytic substance soluble in water , alcohol , \amp ; c. , with every other such substance can be detected , provided the substances do not precipitate each other , or corrode the platinum , and it would be easy to indicate a very large number of mixtures which might be so examined , and thus lead to the discovery of many definite compounds , probably thousands , which exist only whilst in solution , and are decomposed on evaporating or crystallising the solution ; he has already found more than 150 .
The author has also employed it for ascertaining the distribution of acids and bases when together in solution , and for measuring the rate of chemical change proceeding in aqueous solutions , and generally for investigating the chemical constitution of isomeric mixtures , or those having the same ultimate chemical composition .
All these results have arisen from investigating the electromotive forces of simple voltaic couples .
As an illustration of the application of the method to the examination of the internal constitution of electrolytes , including that of isomeric mixtures , two instances are given in which two mixtures , possessing the same ultimate chemical composition , exert very different amounts of voltaic energy .
an additional note , dated December 27th , 1888 , the author 8 .
^ that although , according to J. Thomsen 's determinations , an aqueous solution of a molecular weight proportion of MgS04 , and ' neither evolve nor absorb heat on admixture with each \#169 ; r , distinct evidence of their chemical union whilst in solution is | * 'rded ky measurements made with the " voltaic balance ; " this 1 e#r\#174 ; nce may perhaps be explained by the different degrees of ansi iveness of the two methods .

