]\gt ; New Method of Spectrophotometry .
and subject to the conditions .
But the peculiar form of the analysis in these cases has already been indicated sufficiently , together with the unusual acoustic behaviour of the systems derived from this particular eneratiJlg curve .
With reference to the transition , through , from the values the limit of the preceding paper , and , the value in the paper , it is necessary to point out that interpolation is not possible , and that the solution for intermediate values of requires asymptotic formulae , suitable for larger values of the argument , functions partially discussed in the first paper .
es functions are of considerable interest and generality .
A Method of Spectrophotometry in the Visible and violet and the Absorption of Light by Silver Bromide .
By , D.Sc .
, , and F. TOY , B.Sc. Communicated by Sir Herbert Jackson , F.R.S. Received January 24 , 1920 .
) A quantiGatiye of the absorption of light by silver ) ronlide has been undertaken as a preliminary to a photochemical ation of the action of silver bromide in the dry plate .
A good summary of the advanto and of the various methods which have been devised by different experimenters for the quantitative investigation of the absorption of tYht by substances is given by Ewest in a thesis entitled , sir quantitatiyen Spectralphotographie of which an abstract is given by F. F. Renwick .
* All the methods which have been used previously either depend upon Schwarzschild 's law of the relation between time of exposure and the photographic or a so-called neutral wedge is used which is supposed to absorb equally in all wave-lengths or is calibrated for selective absorption .
The method which we have used is in some ways similar to that used by Ewest , but the apparatus required is very much simpler and a wedge of the material under examination is used instead of the neutral wedge of Ewest .
In our method all that is required of the photographic plate is that the exposure of two adjacent portions of the same plate to the same intensity of the same wave-length * Photographic Journal , ' vol. 54 , p. 99 ( 1914 ) .
Dr. R. E. Slade and Mr. F. C. Toy .
or the same time gives the same under identical conditions of .
development .
This condition is easily satisfied .
As will be seen in the sequel , errors are reduced to errors in measurements of length .
Method .
Consider a very thin wedge of the absorbing substance ( fig. 1 ) with one face uniformly illuminated by parallel light incident normally .
A FIG. 1 .
FIG. 2 .
Let the uniform intensity incident on the face AB be and the intensity of the emergent light be will vary along the length of the wedge , this variation being due only to the difference in thickness of absorbing medium traversed by the light , since reflection effects are identical at all points .
Neglecting the very small portions of which is due to multiple reflection the relation of and is given by , ( 1 ) where is the thickness of the absorbing medium in centimetres , is a factor depending on the amount of light reflected and is the extinction coefficient .
Now let a uniform intensity produce an emergent intensity at a distance from the thin end of the wedge ( fig. 1 ) .
If now is changed to , at some new distance ( fig. 2 ) , there will be the same emergent intensity as before , since the decrease of incident intensity is balanced by the decrease in thickness of the absorbing medium .
We may therefore write A New Method of Spectrophotometry .
Whence we get , if is the angle of the wedge , .
( 2 ) The photographic plate is use determine the distances and on the wedge .
The vedge is placed at the slit of the spectroscope so that the intensity at any point , , on the photographic plate is proportional to the intensity of the which has passed through the at the point of which is the image .
The two exposures for the same time , with incident intensities and , are then taken side by side on the same plate , and the distances ( corresponding to and on the wedge ) are determined in the way .
Since the time of exposure has been the same in both cases and the plate and development are the same , the points on the plates which have been exposed to the same light intensity will have the same photographic density .
We can determine such points and measure the difference of the distances of each from the image of the point of the wedge or from ] some arbitrary line such as the image of the end of the slit .
Since it does not matter what density we use for comparison so long as we use the same density for both exposures , we found it convenient to use a density , such that ) making a first positive then a second negative and finally a second positive ( all on process plates ) it was this density which just gave the sharp change from black to white in the second positive .
On the developed negative the sharpness of change from black to white will depend on the value of , the steepness of the wedge and the kind of plate used .
Now , if a positive be made on another plate and preferably in parallel , the resulting gradation may be made steeper , and though the distances and may change , they will change by the same amount in each , the ditference remaining constant .
From the first positive a second negative and then a second positive may be made if necessary to obtain a sharp change from black to white .
The distances and for each wave-length may then be measured directly by means of a travelling microscope .
In order to determine the distances and on the wedge corresponding to and on the plate , it is necessary to know the magnification at various wave-lengths produced by the optical system of the spectroscope .
This can be done by cing an opaque object of known width across the jaws of the sht and comparing the width as obtained on the plate .
If , where is the reciprocal of the magnification , we have .
( 3 ) VOL. XCVII.\mdash ; A. Dr. R. E. Slade and Mr. F. C. Toy .
The only condition necessary in regard to time of exposure is that it shall be the same for the two exposures at intensities and .
Exposures are therefore made ently long for errors in the measurement of time to be negligible .
The -length may be found either by photographing a known spectrum on each side of the absorption spectra or on the top of the absorption spectra themselves .
The latter method allows the wave-length to be determined at any point more quickly , and is quite satisfactory provi ed that the exposures are carefully regulated so as to show the lines only with clear lass as a background .
By the use of suitable the method is applicable to the measurement of extinction coefficients from values of the order of 1 to perhaps 100,000 or even more .
This maximum is only limited by the smallest wedge which can be used and the intensity of the light source .
The Extinction Cocfficient of ) Bromide .
In determining the value of the extinction coefficient for silver bromide it was first necessary to prepare the salt optically clear .
This was done as described by and Eitel .
* The wedge was made up between two similar optical plates of fused silica cm .
cm .
, prepared by Messrs. Adam Hilger , Limited .
The high melting point of silver bromide ( 430 C. ) prevented the use of quartz .
The plates carefully cleaned , were placed in contact and held together as near one end as possible .
At the other end a flat piece of platinum foil , ( fig. 3 ) , was inserted , the angle of the wedge on the thickness of the foil used .
A portion of the silver bromide was remelted in a flat dish and the silica , , previously heated to about 50 C. , lowered carefully into the dish until one edge just touched the surface of the liquid .
Usually the liquid ran in by capillary attraction , but sometimes the wedge had to be reheated and the process repeated several times .
When a satisfactory wedge was obtained it was allowed to cool slowly , care taken to remove the platinum foil , just before the hquid solidified .
If this was not done the bromide on con'Zeit .
fur Anorg .
Chemie , ' vol. 91 , p. 67 ( 1915 ) .
A New Method of Spectrophotornetry .
tracting invariably broke away from the surface of the plates .
The amount of contraction at any point is proportional to the thickness of the substance , .
i.e. , to the distance from the thin edge of the wedge , so that at all points the contraction tended to reduce the angle of the wedge by the same amount , so that the bromide on cooling did not become strained .
When cold , the pressure on the end of the wedge was removed and the wedge kept in the dark till required for use .
After the exposures had been made , the tangent of the of the wedge was determined by direct measurement with a travelling microscope .
In order to see the inside faces of the silica quite clearly , it was necessary to dissolve out the silver bromide just at the edge of the by immersing in a solution of sodium thiosulphate .
An example of values obtained for the tangent of the angle of one of the wedges used is given in Table A. Each value of the tangent measured was the mean of nine readings , and each set was taken at different distances the wedge .
For the case shown , the distance across the wide end of the wedge was mm. This was the smallest angle measured and was about 14 minutes .
The instrument used for these measurements was made by Messrs. Adam Hilger , Limited , and read to mm. Table A.\mdash ; Wedge No. 2 .
Mean deviation of single observation Average deviation of the mean Tan No allowance was made for any curvature of the silica plates owing to the pressure applied at the thin end of the wedge .
The elTor due to this would depend on the thickness of the plates and the magnitude and the point of application of the pressure .
The silica plates were over 1 mm. thick and held as near the thin end as possible ( fig. 3 ) , so that the beuding was very small , but to minimise any error due to this cause the first 2 mm. from the thin end were not used .
For greater accuracy and for very small Dr. R. E. Slade and Mr. F. C. Toy .
angles it would be necessary to make the wedge in such a way as to avoid the possibility of curvature .
The wedges measured were considered accurate to less than 2 per cent. vedge was mounted in a small metal box , constructed to slide in the grooves for the slit cover of the spectroscope .
The box was provided with a sliding cover , and had slits cut in the back and in the cover , so that , when the box was closed , the two slits were opposite .
These slits were about 1 mm. wide , so that any strip of the could be exposed at one time , the remainder being unexposed .
The inside face of the silver bromide should be in focus on the photographic plate , that is to say , it should be in mechanical contact with the slit .
True gradation will then be rendered in the slit image .
The distance of the bromide from the slit was about mm. The error that this introduces will depend on the focal length of the collimating lens .
For the spectroscope used the focal length of both lenses was large , being about 50 cm .
Since both lenses had approximately the same focal lengths , we could determine the effect of this want of focus by removing the wedge and placing the plate out of focus the same distance as the wedge was during exposure , and finding what effect this had on the image of an opaque object placed in contact with the slit .
raphs were taken with one end of the plate 2 mm. out of focus .
On the negative it was impossible to distinguish any difference in the sharpness of the edges of the opaque object .
For smaller spectroscopes , where this want of focus is more important , owing to the shorter focal length of the collimating lens , we have found that it is possible , by dissolving out the bromide along the edge of the wedge , to remoYe one of the silica plates and place the inside face of the bromide in contact with the spectroscope slit .
The source of used was a 50-volt half-watt metal filament lamp of 100 .
The filament was bent into a semicircle of about cm .
radius .
The current for the lamp was obtained from an accumulator battery of 30 cells ; an adjustable resistance was placed in the circuit and a voltmeter across the terminals of the lamp .
The voltage could be kept constant to volt .
Assuming that the intensity of the source varies as the fifth power of the voltage , the maximum error introduced by the variation of the intensity is 1 per cent. All stray light was cut out by means of suitably placed stops .
The light intensity falling on the wedge was varied by moving the light source .
The distances of the source of light from the wedge were in all cases sufficiently large to permit of the application of the inverse square law .
The distances varied from about 1 to 2 metres , so that a maximum A Newr of Spectrophotometry .
variation of intensity of about 1 : used .
It is best to vary the ratio so as to keep ) as large as possible .
In this way we diminish both the errors in the ratio and in the measurement of .
We were not able to vary the ratio as much as we should have wished , as the room in which we were working was not long enough for the light source to be more than 2 metres from the wedge .
The plane of the filament was placed parallel to the planle of the slit , so that distances from all points of the filament to the slit could be considered equal .
Distances were measured to the nearest cm .
Assuming an error of as much as cm .
in the measurement of each distance , the error in the ratio of intensities for distances of 100 cm .
and 150 cm .
works out at less than per cent. Such large distances of the source of light from the slit were also necessary , in order that the intensity over the face of the wedge should be uniform , and that the whole of the passing the slit should fall on the collimating lens .
A test was carried out for any variation of intensity on the plate due to want of parallelism of the jaws of the slit , but none could be detected with the fairly wide slit which was used .
A test was also made for interference effects , using water instead of the silver bromide in the wedge , but , with the wedges used , there was no variation of intensity which could be attributed to this cause .
WEDGE No2 .
OF EXPOSURE MINUTES The dobted lines show and Fig. 4 shows an example of a second positive made from an original negative in which the gradation extended over about 2 mm. The shape of the isopaque curve is determined by ( 1 ) the extinction coefficient , 2 ) the Dr. R. E. Slade and Mr. F. C. Toy .
intensity of the light , and ( 3 ) the sensitlvity the photographic plate .
( The spectrum lines shown in are the violet lines of the copper arc , and This second positive is sufficiently sharp to measure the distances and to mm. Slight irregularities along the curve are due to small cracks and traces of impurity in the silver bromide wedge .
The great of , a continuous spectrum is that for reading at a bad point on the curve the correct position can be estimated by the eye from the shape of the curve on either side .
At such a point the mean of several was taken , the difference between extreme readings being about mm. At a good point on the curve the same value to mm. was obtained a each reading .
The distances varied from cm .
to cm .
The maximum error , therefore , due to errors in measurements of these distances was of the order of per cent. for the smallest values and became very small for large values .
A test showed that the value of was not affected by sharpening the negative by successive printing .
The same value , to within the accuracy of measurement , could be obtained from different positives made from the same original negative , but with different times of exposure .
This shows that errors due to uneven coating of the plates are negligible .
With each wedge several different exposures were taken , the ratio being different in each case , so that for any given wave-length the values obtained for varied also .
The average value of was of the order of 2 mm. An example of the results obtained is shown in Table which gives the values of and for different photographs of the same wedge at , and the values of as calculated from equation 3 .
Table B.\mdash ; Wedge No. 1 Mean value of Average deviation of single observation Average deviation of the mean A New Method of Spectrophotometry .
The following is an example of the way in which the value of was determined for a single photograph .
The example given is for photograph No. 2 in Table B. .
Exposure minutes .
Values of , , 0460 , 0461 , Mean / cm Values of ( cm .
) .
, 0322 , 0321 , Mean / cm cm .
, cm .
, Distances of light source from wedge cm .
and cm .
The value of .
was determined on each plate for points 1 , 2 , etc. , millimetres from the copper line These distances were measured on the Vernier scale of a microscope mechanical stage which was fixed on the stage of the travelling microscope used to measure and .
This mechanical stage could only be read to mm. and estimated to mm. This was quite accurate enough for determining the wave-length to 1 , but if the isopaque curve was steep it is obvious that an error in the position at which the value of ?
was measured would cause an error in the value of .
But the steeper the isopaque the greater the difference , so that ib is not necessary to measure with so much accuracy in this case .
No measurements were made , however , on the steepest portion of the isopaque curves .
The value of the reduction factor where was obtained for several wave-lengths and a smooth curve drawn .
It varied from at to at .
The length of the opaque object measured was about cm .
, so that the error in the value of was very small , and could be neglected .
The points plotted in fig. are the average values of obtained at each wave-length with different wedges .
It will be seen that the values obtained with the two measured wedges for the same wave-lengths are in fair agreement .
The angle of the thinnest wedge No. 3 was not measured , but calculated from the values of , at certain wave-lengths , which had been determined with one of the other wedges ( No. 2 ) .
A New Method of Spectrophotometry .
Table C. In Table are given the values of as read off from the smooth curve at intervals of .
To obtain a check on these figures an approximate value of was determined in the visible spectrum for the blue mercury lines mean by means of a Konig-Martin specbrophotometer , and a value of was obtained .
The value as read off the curve is 510 .
The average errors of the mean values of which are plotted in , vary from per cent. These were calculated as in Table B. From these values it is estimated that the average error of any of the values given in Table is less than 3 per cent. In this , of course , only the variable part of the error is included .
but the constant error has been eliminated as far as possible by the variation of the conditions under which the different observations were made .
We believe that the greatest constant error is that of the instrument which has been used in the measurement of the lengths .

