I. " Numerical Elements of Indian Meteorology.-Series II .
Insolation , and its Connexion with Atmospheric Moisture .
" By HERMANN VON SCHLAGINTWEIT .
Communicated by the President .
Received December 27 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) The author regards as an approximate measure of insolation the difference of the maximum temperatures observed by two similar thermometers , ill Mr. Parker on the Skill of the Ostrich ribe .
[ Mar. 9 , one in the sun , and the other in the shade , disturbing influences being as much as possible avoided in both cases , and the observations being confined to those days on which the sun shone sufficiently clearly to cast a distinct shadow during some part of the interval between noon and 4 P.M. Comparing the differences of insolation in different parts of India and in different seasons , he is led to regard insolation as dependent greatly on relative humidity .
Thus , generally speaking , it is greater on the seaboard than in the interior of India .
At individual stations , the maxima of insolation occur on days of great relative moisture , i. e. on days in the rainy season when the clouds are temporarily broken , or in the months immediately following the rainy season , when the atmosphere is still very humid .
Calcutta and Columbo are taken as types of a sea-climate , Konagheri and Bellori as types of an interior or very dry climate .
In the one type the relative humidity is from 88 to 93 , the insolation 50 ?
; whilst in the other type the relative humidity is from 60 to 65 , and the insolation from 8 ?
to 110 .
Still more striking results are obtained by comparing the mountain climates of Sikkim and Ladak , nearly at similar absolute altitudes .
At Ladak the relative humidity is about 30 , and the insolation about 18 ?
; whilst in Sikkim the relative humidity is estimated at from 81 to 84 , and the insolation from 60 ?
to 75 ? .
The contrasts in these comparisons are very great , and , with other examples , which are cited , appear to substantiate a connexion between the presence of aqueous vapour in its transparent state , and insolation as measured by the differences of thermometers in the sun and shade .
The connexion is shown to be in perfect harmony with the results obtained by Professor Tyndall , and is explained by considering simultaneously the gain of heat which the thermometer experiences by direct radiation from the sun , and its loss of heat by radiation to the surrounding air .
The opacity of the air for the invisible heat radiating from the thermometer rapidly increases with the amount of vapour of water which the air contains , while its transparency for the heat directly radiated from the sun is comparatively little affected .
Thus when the air is highly charged with moisture , free radiation from the thermometer is much impeded ; or rather , what the thermometer loses by radiation into the air is in some measure restored by radiation back again from the air .

