Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ Feb. 10,1 III .
" On a New Seismograph .
" By J. A. Ewing , B.Sc. F.R.S.E. , Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the University of Tokio , Japan .
Communicated by Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received January 17 , 1881 .
The difficulty in earthquake measurements is to find a point which does not move during the disturbance .
This condition is , in certain cases , fulfilled approximately ( as regards horizontal motion ) by the bob of a pendulum , * and , for this reason , pendulums have been frequently used as seismometers .
A long pendulum , whose period greatly exceeds the period of the earthquake waves , suspended from an exceedingly rigid frame , makes a fairly good seismograph , the earth 's motion relatively to the bob being shown by a pair of indicating levers at right angles to each other , with their short ends in contact with the bob near its centre of gravity , their fulcrums fixed to the earth , and their long ends lightly touching a plate of smoked glass which is kept revolving uniformly by clockwork .
If the bob were to remain quite stationary during an earthquake , this would give two curves , showing on a magnified scale two rectangular components of the horizontal displacement of a point on the earth 's surface in conjunction with the time , from which the amount and direction of the actual horizontal movement , and its velocity and rate of acceleration at any time during the shock , could be deduced .
There are , however , two independent reasons why the bob of a pendulum seismograph does not remain stationary during an earthquake shock .
In the first place , it is disturbed by the friction and inertia of the recording levers .
[ It may be observed here that a considerable multiplication of the motion is essential , at least in measurements of the small earthquakes which are common in Japan , for the actual motion of the earth 's surface is usually only a fraction of a millimetre .
] It is not difficult , however , to reduce this source of disturbance to an almost insensible quantity by a careful construction and arrangement of the joints , \amp ; c. , and by making the mass of the bob excessively great relatively to that of the levers .
The other and by far the more important cause of disturbance is the motion of the point of suspension of the pendulum .
The motion communicated to the bob by this means would reach a maximum , and altogether eclipse the true earthquake motion if the period of oscillation of the supporting point agreed exactly with the pendulum 's free period .
By making the pendulum long enough , and the supporting frame rigid , this extreme case can easily be avoided , but the effect is never entirely absent .
The writer has observed that * And as regards vertical motion also if the bob be suspended by a spiral spring .
442 Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ Feb. 10 a pendulum 20 feet long , suspended as favourably to steadiness as possible , has been set swinging during even a very slight earthquake , through arcs about three times as long as the actual motion of the earth 's surface .
By using a pendulum of as great length as this , how-ever , and by making it trace a continuous record in the manner described above , we may distinguish between that part of the record which is due to the swing of the pendulum and that part which is the true register of the earth 's motion , the waves produced by the swing of the pendulum being of much longer periods than those due to the undulation of the earth .
The record thus shows the short earthquake waves superposed upon a long sinuous curve due to the swing of the pendulum .
In this way , a long pendulum seismograph may ( though with difficulty ) be made to give good results ; and one designed by the author has been erected in the University of Tokio , thanks to the liberality of the Japanese directors .
More recently , however , the writer has designed and constructed another seismograph , which he believes to be novel , and which is certainly far superior to the long pendulum seismograph in simplicity and cheapness of construction , ease of use , and accuracy of results .
To describe this new instrument is the object of the present paper .
Figs. 1 and 2 show as much of the apparatus as is needed for the purpose of explanation .
The scale in fig. 1 is about one-third , and in fig. 2 about one-sixth , of full size .
A solid round cylindrical brass bob a is pivotted between two conical points of steel , so as to be capable of revolving freely about a vertical axis bbat the short end of a light horizontal lever .
The horizontal lever consists of two parts-\#151 ; a light brass frame c and a long pointer of straw d , the extreme end of which is sharp-pointed , and presses gently against a revolving glass plate f ( fig. 2 ) , whose surface is smoked .
The lever cd is pivotted about a vertical axis ee , between two conical steel points , the lower one working in a hole in the base ; the upper one , the point of a set-screw fixed in the top of an inverted stirrup , which is in one piece with the base of the instrument .
In fig. 1 , one side of this stirrup is , for the sake of clearness , supposed to be removed .
The base stands , supported by three levelling screws , on the top of a post , which is firmly driven into the ground , and then cut off short a few inches above the surface .
The instrument is fixed to the post by a " geometrical clamp " ( see Thomson and Tait 's " Nat. Phil. , " 2nd edition , vol. i , S 198 ) .
The sockets for the feet of the levelling screws are a pyramidal hole , a V slot , and a plane surface ; and the pressure necessary to give steadiness is produced by a single screw bolt near the centre , which is not shown in the drawing .
By this arrangement the axis ee is placed and held in a vertical position .
It moves with the earth during a shock .
There are two precisely Ijggl .
] On a New Seismograph .
similar levers separately mounted at right angles to each , other , and *their pointers touch the plate at different distances from the centre IJsee Plan , fig. 2 ) .
The plate / revolves continuously in the direction jof the arrow aboat a vertical axis , which is also fixed to the earth .
It has not been considered necessary to show the details of this part of { the apparatus .
, . .
... , , , , , i ijke lever cd is proportioned so as to have this peculiarity , that the iaxes ee and bb are axis of percussion and axis of instantaneous rotation respectively .
Hence , if a small horizontal displacement of the earth 's surface takes place in a direction at right angles to d , carrying the j axis ee with it , the lever will revolve through a small angle with bb as its instantaneous axis ( if we neglect the effect of friction ) .
There is , therefore , no tendency on the part of the bob a to acquire motion , either of translation or of rotation , and it remains at rest during and after the displacement .
The same is true of any number of successive displacements in alternate directions .
The distance of the end of the pointer d from the axis bb is seven !
times as great as the distance of ee from bb , and hence the pointer moves through a distance seven times as great as the earth 's motion .
But the glass plate has moved in the same direction by an amount equal to the earth 's motion .
The recorded movement , drawn upon the plate in the direction of the radius , will therefore be six times the actual movement of the surface of the earth .
A displacement occurring at right angles to the former , or along the line d , produces no record by the one lever , for pointer and plate both move in the same direction and by the same amount .
But this will affect the second lever , which is set at right angles to the first .
In an earthquake two rectangular components of the horizontal motion are recorded by the levers to which they are respectively per-pendicular , and they are magnified in the same ratio .
The revolution of the plate gives two continuous curves showing the successive displacements in conjunction with the time .
When a displacement occurs , the pointer which has been displaced has no tendency either to return or to continue moving in the same direction , until the return displacement occurs , when it of course comes back .
There is no directive force to produce return motion ; and as soon as the axis ee stops moving , the lever cd comes to rest also .
On account of this characteristic the new instrument has been called the Astatic Horizontal Lever Seismograph .
The ideal action of the instrument is interfered with to a small extent by friction .
The friction between the marking point and the plate/ , and at the pivots ee , prevents the axis bb from being the true instantaneous axis of the lever , and therefore there is a small amount of motion of translation communicated to the bob a. Again , the friction at the pivots bb tends to communicate motion of rotation to a. 444 Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ Feb. 10 , But the actual amount of frictional error , in the first somewhat roughly made instrument which has been set up , is so small as hardly to affect the records to a sensible extent .
To test it the following experiment was made The whole apparatus , consisting of the plate/ , the clockwork to drive it , and the two levers , was put on a shaky table , whose movements could be made to imitate those of an earthquake .
The pointers were placed side by side instead of in their usual positions , and the bob of one of them was held fast by a bracket from a neighbouring wall .
It was , therefore , perfectly steady during the artificial earthquakes made by shaking the table .
Two records were then obtained upon the plate , by shaking the table transversely to the levers : one was the true motion , known to be true because the bob of that lever was held fixed during the test ; the other was the motion as recorded by the other lever in the usual way .
Both motions were magnified in the same ratio of six to one .
If the bob of the second lever remained stationary ( as it should have done except for friction ) , the two records would have agreed exactly , and if not , then their difference would show the extent and nature of the frictional error .
Fie .
3 .
Ax A2 records produced by lever with fixed bob .
Bx B2 records produced by lever with free bob .
The result was satisfactory beyond expectation .
Pigs .
3 and 4 , which are taken from a photograph of the plate , show the portions of the pair of records produced by this method .
The curves Aj in fig. 3 , and A2 in fig. 4 , show the true motions as recorded by the lever whose bob was held fixed from outside .
Bj and B3 are the corresponding records given by the other lever whose bob was free .
It will be observed that the agreement is very close .
Recent observations have shown that the parts of the curves in figs. 3 and 4 , which are of relatively small amplitude , resemble most closely the curves produced by actual earthquakes .
In these parts the divergence between the two records is scarcely perceptible .
The friction of the marking points on the plate gave some trouble 1881.1 On a New Seismograph .
at first .
The difficulty of getting a truly plane plate and of setting it exactly perpendicular to its axis of rotation , made it needful to allow a small amount of up-and-down motion of the marking points during the revolution of the plate .
This has been done by connecting the Fio .
4 .
straw pointer d to the other part of the lever c , by a hinge joint , which gives the pointer freedom to move in a vertical plane , but leaves it no freedom to move sideways relatively to the part c. The effect of this would be that half the weight of the straw would be borne by the glass plate , which would give a disadvantageous^ large amount of pressure at the marking point .
To remedy this , a very flexible straight steel spring , g , has been added , which stands out from the top of the stirrup , and bears a portion of the weight of d through the tension of a fine silk fibre , In .
This arrangement retains the necessary vertical play of the pointer , without allowing its pressure on the plate to be greater than is just sufficient to rub off the thin coating of lampblack which receives the record .
So long as no earthquake occurs , the pointers continue to trace out , over and over again , the same two l circles on the plate .
Owing to the imperfection of the driving clockwork , it has been found to be desirable to add an appliance for marking time at short intervals on the plate during an earthquake disturbance .
This is done by a short pendulum , which remains deflected from its normal position by the attraction of an electro-magnet , through which a current is permanently passing .
A contact breaker , arranged to be broken y the shock , interrupts the current and releases the pendulum , whose beats then mark a scale of time upon the revolving plate during about one revolution , after which they cease to mark .
Since the seismograph was made it has recorded several earthquakes quite successfully .
The first of these ( on November 3 , 1880 ) was found to consist of more than 150 successive undulations of irregular amplitudes and periods .
The mean period of a complete wave was about O'6 second , and the greatest total amplitude of the earth s Mr. W. Crookes .
[ Feb. I7r motion was 0'3 millim. Another earthquake ( on November 10 ) which , judged by its shaking effects on houses , \amp ; c. , seemed to be of much greater violence than the first , gave a record which showed that its greater intensity was due , not to greater extent of movement but to greater frequency in the waves ; for their amplitude was even somewhat smaller , but their frequency about three times greater than in the former case .
There were , however , at the beginning of this earthquake a few waves of long period , upon which the above-mentioned short waves were superposed : after them the motion con .
sisted of nothing but an irregular ripple of short waves .
These results show that a higher ratio of multiplication is desirable .
The description which has been given applies , with insignificant modifications , to the instrument now in use at the University of Tokio .
In making a second instrument the writer would introduce some changes by way of adding to the stability of the bob and diminishing the friction .
Its mass and its moment of inertia might be increased without increasing the distance between the axes and by making it in the form of a hollow ring , and placing the vertical part of the lever c inside .
To reduce the friction connexion between the lever and its supports on the line might be given by pressure against horizontal friction wheels , two at the top and two at the bottom , the fifth degree of constraint being supplied by the pressure of a rounded steel foot against an agate plate in the base .
Other modifications might be mentioned , but the author 's object in this paper has been not so much to describe constructive details as to explain the principle on which the action of the new seismograph depends .
February 1 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Viscosity of Gases at ..High Exhaustions .
" By William Crookes , F.R.S. Received December 26 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) By the viscosity or internal friction of a gas , is meant the resistance it offers to the gliding of one portion over another .
In a paper read

