]\gt ; [ 627 ] XVI .
On the Relation between the Thickness and the Tension of Liquid Films .
A. W. REINOLD , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics in the Royal College , Greenwich , and A. W. RUCKER , M.A. , F.R. Received May 15 , \mdash ; Read May 27 , 1886 .
[ PLATE 33 .
] Introduction .
LAPLACE'S theory of capillarity is based upon the assumption that the forces in play between the neighbouring molecules of a liquid are insensible at sensible distances .
Each molecule is thus frequently considered as the centre of a sphere which bounds the " " insensible\ldquo ; region within which the molecular forces exerted by the central molecule on others are appreciable .
The radius of this sphere is called " " the radius of molecular action It is evident from its definition that it is not a nate physical constant .
The point at which a force ceases to be " " sensible\ldquo ; depends upon the delicacy of the methods which are employed to detect its effects , and thus also upon the nature of the particular efFect which is studied .
Many physicists have , however , rightly considered that an approximate measurement of the distance at which the mutual actions of neighbouring molecules become negligible was , well worth obtaining .
They have , therefore , by different methods sought indications of the magnitude of this distance , and , if successful , have added their result to the other recorded measureme ts of the radius of molecular action .
The nomenclature thus adopted is somewhat vague , but we are not aware that any general misconception exists as to the indefinite character of the magnitude , to which , nevertheless , definite name is given .
The theory that molecular forces are only sensible at very small distances leads us to regard a liquid as bounded by a very thin external layer , the properties of which are different from those of the mass in the interior .
To this the name of the layer may be given .
The definition of its thickness is subject to the same difficulties as the ition of the magnitude of the radius of molecular action .
The two , however closely related and are generally assumed to be equal .
PLATEAU , arguin that the surface tension wonld decrease if the thickness of a soap film became less than twice that of the surface layer , first investigated the question as to whether the pressure exerted on the enclosed air depended on the thickness of the bubble .
His method , is well known , consisted in forming bubble at the end of a tube which was bent so as to serve as a water-manometer the measurement of the internal pressure .
He concluded that the radius of molecula action was less than mm. , because no regular change was observed the- case of a bubble which thinned till it displayed a colour which , ordinf NEWTON'S scale , indicated twice that thickness , viz. , the pale yellow of the fir order LUDTGE formed a soap film at the end of a tube , and , when it had becoine closed the other end by a new film .
Some air was then forced , the films assumed the form of spherical segments , and their curvatures were compared .
He concluded that the thicker film had the less surface tension , and that almost immediately after its formation the thickness of a film was less than twice the radius of molecular a , ction .
These experiments were carefully repeated by VAN DER MENSBRUGGHE , who kept one of the films moderately thick by dropping liquid upon it , so that it displayed the red and green of the higher orders .
He describes the other film as showing bright colours , especially towards the top .
lfe could not detect any change in the curvature of the films , and concluded that the tensions were the same , though the thicknesse4 were different .
Later , VAN DER MENSBRUGGHE'S views appear to have undergone some modification .
He based an explanation of a number of curious phenomena on the principle , enunciated by Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , that if a soap film is extended it is cooled .
He thought , therefore , that " " les experiences de LUDTGE s'expliquent de la maniere la plus net pourvu que les augmentations de tension admises par le physicien allemand dans certaines parties d'une lame soient attribuees au developpement de surfaces fraiches sir les deux faces de cette lame , et a la diminution de temperature qui en sulte.\ldquo ; If VAN DER MENSBRUGGHE'S later views are correct it is evident that his earlier test of LUDTGE'S observations is open to objection , as , if a film be kept thick by dropping liquid upon it , new surfaces must necessarily be produced .
Indeed , he seems to think that much less potent causes might produce results which can be easily detected .
We describe one of his experiments , to give an example of his method of applying Sir ILLIAM THOMSON'S :\mdash ; A circular hole about 4 cm .
in diameter was bored in an iron plate furnished with a handle .
The edge of the hole was bevelled , and it was made the common basis of two bubbles forming spherical segments which enclosed a lens-shaped space .
If the plate were placed horizontally , if the weights of the films were negligible , and if *PLATEAU , ' Statique des Liquides , ' 1873 , vol. 1 , p. 'Poggendorff , Annalen , ' vol. 139 , 1870 , p. 620 .
'Bruxelles , Acad. Sci. Bull vol. 30 , 1870 , p. 322 .
S 'Bruxelles , Acad. Sci. Mem ] .
, 1882 ( No. 4 , p. 18 ) . .
cit. , p. 19 .
ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
eurface tensions were identical , the curvature of each would be the same .
VAN NENSBRUGGHE , however , considers that a zone of liquid in the upper bubble uld in descending increase its surface , while in the lower bubble the surface of the reending mass would diminish .
Hence the upper bubble would become cooled , bile the temperature of the lower one would be raised , and this would be indicated a difference of curvature , due to the fact that the surface tensions were not the am .
Observation showed that such a diiference of curvature existed .
In one xperim the sagittae of the spherical segments differed by mm. , which iminished after to mm. When the system had apparently reached a ermanent state the plate was reversed , the upper and lower bubbles exchanged places , and the fact that the measurements were to within the error of experiment the same as before was taken as evidence that the phenomenon observed was not due to any inequahty produced directly by the weight of the films .
The investigations of these observers have not left the question of the relation between the surface tension and the thickness of a liquid film in a satisfactory state .
We have already pointed out*that the experiment of PLATEAU , who observed a bubble formed of liquid glycerique which lasted for three days , and was enclosed in a vessel containing sticks of caustic potash to the air , offers no guarantee that the composition of the liquid remained unaltered .
As we have found that under circumstances much less favourable to changet a soap film lost in thirty-eight minutes 23 out of the volumes of water contained in volumes of solution , it is practically certain that the constitution of PLATEAU'S bubble could not have been constant .
LUDTGE and VAN MENSBRUGGHE were on their guard against this difficulty , and , though they experimented with liquid glycerique without any of the elaborate precautions which we have since shown to be necessary if the percentage of water is to remain unaltered , they checked these observations with others made with solutions of Quillaja and of Marseilles soap .
Neither , however , appears to have put his sions to a certain and satisfactory test .
If it be true that the surface tension of a film varies with its thickness it would be a matter of the highest interest to determine the law of change .
No such attempt was made by LUDTGE , who remarked only that the method did not admit of great accuracy , and that one of his experiments indicated a change of tension in the ratio of to in five minutes .
VA DER MENSBRUGGHE , on the other hand , though he has no doubt suggested a which completely explain some of the phenomena he describes , made no attempt to determine whether the lowering of temperature to which he ascribes them could be produced by such increments of the surface as could reasonably be supposed to take place .
For this purpose the change of tension must be measured , and though he gives the data for the culation he does not make it .
The reason for this probably was * Phil. Trans vol. 172 ( Part 2 , 1881 ) , p. 448 . .
cit. , p. 486 .
that he evidently aware that other causes might affect the result , and differences of surface tension given by different experiments varied considerably , Thus , if we attempt to compare the surffice tensions of two spherical films ' their sagittae , the question of the real magnitude of their circular becomes important .
The fact that a adheres to its solid .
support by means ring of comparatively thick liquid makes it uncertain whether the dimensions of film can be directly inferred from those of the solid .
In one of VAN DER MENSBRUGGHE'S experiments the films were formed on a 4 cm .
in diameter , and their sagittae were and mm. respectively .
therefore , the bases of both segments had the same diameter as the ring , the radii the spheres , of which they were parts , were and cm .
This might indig that the surface tensions differed by about 1 per cent. The inequality can also accounted for by supposing that the films had the same surface tension , but owing to some little difference in the size of the thick liquid rings which united them to the solid , the radii of their bases differed by mm. This calculation , at all events , proves that small errors of this kind might produce differences of the same order as those ascribed to changes in surface tension .
The experiments of previous observers were all made with comparatively thick films .
We have had considerable experience in producing films which display the black of first order .
Their thickness , the measurement of which we have described in a previous communicati.on , is about one-tenth of that ascribed by to the bubble on which he based his conclusion .
It was quite possible that the two sul.face layers mige be separate in his experiment and yet give evidence of mingling in a film ten times thinner .
[ A objection may be taken to the observations of PLATEAU and LUDTGE , as it may bo urged that , if the tension of a film alters as it becomes thinner , it must break when it has become thin enough for the tensions of the thicker and thinner parts to by an appreciable amount .
We have elsewhere expressed an opinion that the possibility of the existence of a film in such a state depends on the relative magnitudes of its viscosity , and of the difference of tension in question .
Al the matter has an important bearing on the subject of this paper , it may be well discuss it a little more fully .
There can of course.be no doubt but that a difference of surface tension in two parts of the same film must produce motion .
Is therefore priori certain that , if enough to be measured , it must either produce rupture or motion so violent as prevent the measurements being made ?
In considering this question , it must be observed that no calculations had k# made previous to our own as to what difference of surface tension is measurable * ' Phil. Trans vol. 174 ( Part 2 , , p. 645 .
The paragraphs within these brackets were added Nov. 10 , 1886 .
'Phil .
Trans vol. 172 ( Part 2 , 1881 ) , p. 489 .
assumptions , decided whether or no evidence of a diffece of surfaoe exceeding a given amount is forthcoming , we are then at liberty to reconside probable constitution of the film in view of the facts which experiment has elicit In studying the properties of the black portion of a soap film , it is a.lso impw to remember that it has a well-defined boundary which indicates an .
apparent dieo tinuity in the thickness .
It may be urged that if the thickness is less than that two surface layers there must also be an apparent discontinuity in the surface ten at the edge of the black .
If this were s a free globular bubble , consisting of parts , a coloured portion and a black " " polar cap could not be spherical , but consist of two spherical segments which meet at a finite angle .
This condition is consistent with equilibrium , and therefore the black and coloured portions of the fii must have the tension .
We think this argument deserves con sideration , but we have not that so iv as to obviate the necessity of experiment to determine the facts .
In the first place we are not aware that any evidence is on lecord that a perfectly spherical bubble have a black " " cap If the bubble is attached to a tube or other solid support the argument no longer applies , as that part which is in contact with the solid is not constrained to meet the axis of revolution , and may therefore be an unduloid or nodoid which can meet the spherical segment without any In order , therefore , that the argument might have the necessary basis of ascertained fact it would be requisite that bubbles should be formed without any solid supporta , and should under these conditions be observed to reach a state in they wer6 partly black and partly coloured .
Spherical bubbles when supported do not ordmarily exhibit more than a very small circular patch of black , and it would probably be very difficult to produce free spherical bubbles which should thin with sufficient rapidity for the purpose in view .
Even supposing that such a result had been obtained , anything like accurat measurement to ascertain the spherical form of the bubble would under the require conditions be difficnlt or impossible .
Unless these measurements were made th experiment would be open to the objection that the bubble might not be true spherical , and that the same conditions which cause the sudden change in thickness the edge of the black might also explain a very rapid change in curvature .
It did not therefore seem wise to rely with implicit confidence on reasonir as t , o a region in the film which is the seat of phenomena which are confessedly fectly understood .
If experiment is necessary , observations on free spherical bubbl did not seem likely to be easy or conclusive .
We therefore determined to : adopt modification of LUDTGE'S method , and to balance against each other two films different degrees of tenuity .
It was essential that our method of experiment should be such as would enable readily to produce black films .
We have found that this end is most easily obb with cylinders .
In most of our experiments , thereforQ , one of the ffims has ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS . .
The other , though of the same mean curvature , has been of various convenience suggested .
general idea of the apparatus is represented in the accompanying diagram .
are blown on the inverted cups A and , until they adhere to the rings They can be cut off from or put into communication with each other or the external air by means of stopcocks .
By withdrawin or forcing in air they be made to assume any required form .
This arrangement , like LUDrGE'S , possesses the great advantage that the indications ught for are not complicated by changes in the temperature or in the pressure of the atmosphere .
These may cause the diameter of the films to increase or contract , but will affect them equally .
A difference in surface tension would be indicated by a difference in their magnitudes .
The two simplest surfaces which can be formed with such an apparatus are the cylinder and the sphere .
The fact that if they change their shape they become unduloids or nodoids has , of course , made the mathematical theory of the experiment more complicated .
The justification of the particular method adopted is , however , to be found in the fact that liquid cylinders offer such much greater facilities for obtaining a completely black film than any other geometrical form , that every other consideration has been made to give way to this , which , for reasons to be detailed hereafter , we conceive to be of prime importance .
In the following pages we shall deduce from the sumption that films of different thicknesses have different surface tensions the conclusions to which it leads , and shall then submit to the test of experiment the question as to whether these conclusions are in accord with the observed facts .
On the Sensitiveness of the Methods of suring Cin the Suface Tension of a Film .
All the methods which we have described measure the change in the surface tension of the film indirectly by a change in length .
In PLATEAU'S experiment the movement.of the liquid in the .
manometer , in the others the alterations in the sagittae or UDCCCLXXXVI .
4 diameters of the films , furnish the required cation .
surface tension produce an alteration in this length .
then be conveniently taken as a measure of the sensit tb The quantities and may be finite or infinitely small .
In the latter expression gives the limiting sensitiveness for an infinitely small vat.iation in If the increment observed in any experiment is by the quotient is the fraction of itself by which the tension has alteoed .
The of different methods of measuring is best obtained by comparing the sensitiven for equal values of It is easy to see that , as has been stated , experiments can be arranged in the sensitiveness is infinite , i.e. , in which the equilibrium is unstable , so that infinitely small change in would produce a finite change in L. Two bubbles , greater than a hemisphere , and the interiors of which were connected , would such an arrangement .
Great sensitiveness may be obtained by approaching conditions of instability as nearly as may be practically convenient .
In the following calculations we have treated the air as incompressible by the forces due to slight changes in the surface tensions of the ffims by which it is enclos In LUDTGE'S experiment , if the lume of the tube is large compared with that of spherical segments , it might be necessary to allow for variations in the density of air .
If the apparatus be properly designed , the necessity for this avoided .
The surface tension of water is about 81 dynes per linear cm .
bubble 1 cm .
in radius would therefore exert upon the enclosed air a pressure 324 dynes per sq .
cm .
The changes of surface tension to be studied are.but am fractions of the whole , and as the atmospheric pressure is dynes per .
cm may safely be said that they could not alter the volume of the enclosed air by than a few millionths of the total space occupied .
In experiments in which the equilibrium is stable the change of form produodthe change in surface tension is generally such as to reduce the change of which would otherwise be produced .
The contraction or expansion of the air would also affect both fiIms , and its effects would be the same-- as those.of a change in temperature .
Limiting Sensitiveness of Let V be the volume of the bubble , the radius of the manometer the distance through which the liquid is depressed .
Let the radius of the from which the bubble hangs , the radius , and the sagitta of the Then Also , if , we must have constant .
ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
be the pressure due to the film , the tension , and the density of the liquid oxanometer , .
( 2 ) From these equations we get This expression gives the sensitiveness , since the total movemen( and up ) of liquid in the manometer is In PLATEAU'S experiment dynes ( about ) per linear cm .
, cm .
, cm .
, Substituting these values in the denominator , and equating to zero , we get This equation in has one negative and two positive roots .
The latter are and which give and When has these values the sensitiveness is infinite .
The meaning of this result is as follows .
If a bubble be blown at the end of a tube connected with a manometer the bubble will increase , and the liquid in the manometer will become more depressed until film is a hemisphere .
Thereafter the pressure will diminish , and though V win increase will become less .
If the radius of the manometer tube is such that the decrement is greater than the increment , an increase in the size of the bubble would necessarily be attended with a decrease in the total volume of enclosed air .
Under- these conditions the equilibrium would be unstable , and the system would transform itself into a form in which the volume of the bubble was such that was positive .
If the bubble were originally on the borders of instability a small change in would produce a finite change in the position of the liquid in the manometer , and thus the sensitiveness would be infinite .
In the case of the apparatus used by PLATEAU the whole phenomenon have occurred within narrow limits and would easily escape attention .
The following table explains itself , and illustrates tho fact that as the sagitta increases has successively a maximum and a minimum value .
TABLE I. The importance of this table for our present purpose depends , however , chiefl the figures in the first three rows .
The radii are chosen to correspond with thosi bubbles which PLATEAU used .
As he does not mention the radius of the bubble which he based his estimate of the superior limit of the radius of molecular attrac it is impossible to estimate exactly the sensitiveness of his experiment .
Probably did not exceed Limiting Sensitiveness of LUDTGE'S Experiment .
The expression for this quantity has been calculated by VAN DER Let the radius of the tube at the extremities of which the films are formed be let the sagittae of the two spherical segments be and respectively .
Then equation ( 2 ) If the tensions alter , the change in the pressure exerted on the internal must the same for both films , so that If both films had at first the same surface tension , and .
Ako , the total volume is constant , .
Hence In the following table we have taken , so that the for any given radius is obtained by multiplying the figures in the lumn radius expressed in centimetres .
'Bruxelles , Acad. Soi .
Bull vol. 30 , 18 sg.sae .
ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
one of the films be maintained in a constant state the increment of for that zero .
TABLE II .
If the arrangement is unstable .
VAN DER MENSBRUGGHE'S experiments described above are , from the mathematical point of view , particular cases of LUDTGE'S method , and do not require separat discussion .
On the Limiting Sensitiveness of the riments described in this In most of the experiments hereafter described we have balanced two cylinders against each other .
Such figures deform into unduloids , the equations to which could be expressed by the approximate relation We have also balanced spheres against spheres , and a sphere against a cylinder , and it therefore seemed better to deduce general expressions from which the sensitiveness could in each case be calculated .
BEER* has shown that , if the axis of be the axis of revolution , the equation to the curve which generates a surface of revolution of constant curvature is .
( 3 ) In this expression and are both taken as positive quantities , and the curve is an unduloid or nodoid according as the positive or negative sign is taken before the product .
We shall omit the alternative sign and , taking positive and always numerically , shall assume that may be either positive or negative .
We shall also assume that normally the origin lies on a maximum ordinate .
In that case is negative for positive values of which correspond to values of less than that for which the first minimum value of occurs if is positive , and less than that for which if is negative .
In most of the cases with which we have had to deal 'Tractatus de theoria mathematicA )haenomenorum in liquidis actioni gravitatis detractis obsorva tornm , ' Bonn , 1857 .
See also , ' Statique des Liquides , ' vol. 1 , p. 139 .
PROFESSORS A. W. REINOLD there has only been one maximum or nnuum under consideration .
Again , when , which can only be the case when negative , the convex towards the axis of revolution , and the exerted outwada also a case we have not practically realized , so that it be nvemoet to square root as affected with the negative sign .
If then , with BEER , we assume and we get from the differential equation where and are elliptic integrals of the first and second kinds respectively .
As the lower limit of the integrals is zero , the origin is assumed to lie on maximum ordinate , for when W-hen it is convenient to transfer the origin to a minimum ordinate , is positive values of ; and , taking this as the upper limit , we may write where and are the complete integrals taken between the limits #/ 2 and Again , if V is the volume included between the plane t.hrough the perpendicular to the axis of and any other paralel . .
This expression has been given by BEER .
If the origin lies on a minimum ordin we must , as before , write and for and respectively , oemembering that is Let us suppose that two rings of radius are arranged with their perpendicular to the straight line on which their centres lie , the distance them being Let the rings be joined by a liquid ffim , the or minimum oidinaie which lies half-way between them .
It is convenient to speak of.this as the .
Let be the value of which to and the when If then the form of the film be altered , but so that it Iemains of congtant curvature , the quantities , and mrBl vary the that - .
and are constant .
Hence , differentiating the expressions for X and given abva ON THB ICKN SS AND SUBFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
, ( 6 ) The limits of the integrals are and , or and , according as the origin lies on a maximum or minimum ordinate .
In the latter case and must be written for and F. But , and Hence , substituting from these expressions , and eliminating between ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) , ( S ) Again , differentiating the expression for V given in equation ( 5 ) , we get in the general case , when , and are independent , Whence , substituting as above for the integrals , we get .
If is constant this becomes from ( 7 ) and , if both X and are constant , we get from ( 8 ) ( 10 ) These equations applied to the problem under discussion enable us in the first to determine what arrangements of two films in communication will be MAXWELL * has shown that a slight bulge in a cylinder will increase or decre the pressure according as the cylinder is shorter or longer than half the circumfereno of the rings to which it is attached : Hence two cylinders of equal length and radiu will be unstable if their lengths exceed the limit thus laid down .
For , if one cyhnder expands and the other contracts a little , the pressure in the first will fall off , and that in the second will increase .
Heuce , the tendency will be to depart still further from the position of equilibrium .
We found ( as was to be expected ) that it was impossibk to keep the cylinders steady if we approached too near to limit of stability .
theoretical limit is , but in practice X should not be .
Hence , general , the length of the cylinders has been one-and-a-quarter diameters .
It is easy to apply the formulae to the case of any two similar sulfaces of cons curvature .
The unduloid and nodoid are the roulettes of the foci of an ellipse and hyperbo respectively .
LINDELoF has shown that the sum of. .
the rvatures at point in the surfaces of revolution described by these curves about their axes is * ' Encyclop .
Brit Art .
" " Capillary Aotion ON THE TRICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
as the curvature of the circle the diameter of which is the major axis of the pting elHpse in the one case , and the transverse axis of the hyperbola in the ow , since and are the and minimum ordinates , it is evident that in ry notation Hence If then and alter , the increment in the curvature is If the variations take place subject to the conditions that X and are constant , and il ( 8 ) be written in the form we have .
( 11 ) In the case of .
a spherical film .
Hence , and from ( 11 ) he denominator of this expression is positive , and possible for positive values of ; .
The numer may be shown by trial to be positive for values of .
When this value is reached it becomes zero and changes sign .
Now in the case of a sphere ; and , since Therefore , if and S@ORS Thus a slight increase in princip'al nodoi the mean Cli is reater or test as the distance between the rings is less or greater than the circumference of a If this distance between the rings is exceeded , an spherical films , the interiors of which are in m'un\amp ; reheck ; cation , wiu be unstable .
We have next to investigate the sensitiveness of our experiment .
If two films , which are in communication , are equilibrium , the pressure exert on the internal air must be the same .
Hence If the equilibrium is niaintained aiter a 6hange in any or all of theSe The six quantities can etermined ffom the six conditions that the values of X and shall in each remain unaltered , that the changes of volume shall be equal in magmtude and opposite in and that the change of pressure shall be the same for each film .
If the two fihns are similar the condition ffids in geneffl to the result and In the case of two cylinders an expansion of the one is accompanied by .
a contraction of the other .
If both were ally s in } ] ects it is easy to show that , where the latter symbol refers to the film which has nndeygon6 contraction .
For , since the lengths of the cylinders were the same , and in the case of the cylinder : and we have .
and from , since ' , A which , by ( 13 ) , gives , and in like manner Hence , from ( 12 ) , if we ON THE ?
, S AND SURFA CB NSION OF IQUID FILM ( S ' : This expression gives the limiting sensitiveness , since the total alteration in the ngths of the two diameters is If the films were initially spheres the arrangements were in all respects the same for both we have .
Also , substituting the proper values of and , given above in equation ( 8 ) , whence , and from ( 12 ) , if we put By the aid of these expressions we have calculated the following table .
The radius of the rings is taken as the unit of length .
The value of X is therefore numerically equal to the distance between the rings in terms of iameters .
The values of have been so chosen as to values of X in the parts of the table which refer to the cylinders } ere If a sphere and cylinder are in communication , the radius of the twice that of the cylinder if the films are to be in equilibrium when they same surface tension .
The following results apply to a case in which the rings which support the sphere times greater than that of those to cylinder is attached .
The symbols with dashes affixed refer to the sphere .
- .
Sec , .
Since , we get from equation ( 10 ) ta.n or In like manner , from equation ( s ) If , as before , , we get from ( 12 ) or , since which gives the sensitiveness in this case .
The general result of this investigation is to was of being used so as to be far more sensitive than PLATEAU'S , and probablj $k LUDTGE'S , as used by him .
The latter does not mention the diameter of the tuk oyed ; but if we assume that PLATEAU'S bubble had a adius of .
cm .
seems to have been the smallest he used ) , and that a 1 cm .
, and that the sagittae of the segments were haIf the-radius , ON BICKNESS AND TENSION OF LIQtIID FILMS .
Tables I. and II .
that the limiting sensitiveness of the experiments was in 'one case cBnd 0 in the other .
MENSBRUGGHE purposely used segments which ffl but little from hemispheres , and may therefore have attained very great itiveness .
The highest value to be deduced from the experiments he describes used sets of rings the diameters of which were and cm .
respec .
When the two cylinders were employed the sensitivenesses ( see Table III .
) ere and be distance between the rings being each case times the diameter .
In hke manner when two spheres were used the values were with the small rngs and with the large ones .
Such high sensitiveness was found in practice inconvenienb , and.this arrangement was not often employed .
We have for simplicity calculated the sensitiveness of the sphere and cylinder on the assumption that the ratio of the diameter of the rings used was .
It was .
We may , however , without serious error , assume the vahle to be correct .
If , then , we credit PLATEAU and VAN DHlR MENSBRTJGGHE with the most favourable 'rrangements described by them , and make the above probable assumptions for LUDTGE , we get the folowing Table of sensitiveness:\mdash ; These numbers express he relati -rits of the different eriments regarded as methods .
They are inversely proportional to the differences of surface tension which , could in each case exist without detection .
It is however , proper to point out that the more sensitive methods are also more liable to accidental disturbances of arious kinds , an ' therefore present so great an advantage as the theory would indicate .
This remark- does not apply to a method which we employed- , and by which the sensitiveness is doubled , viz , , keeping each film thick in turn .
By this means the indications of a rence of surface tension were twice as great as they would wise have been , and the figures given above may be multiplied by Description of t\amp ; film box was rectangular in shape , cm . !
It was made entirely of thick plate with the was of ebonite and about half an inch thick The cover fitted accurately place , and to it were attached the eters , so that all the apparatus cqtmected with the ffirua lifting the cover .
The supports for the films are shown at ( P !
Ste 83 , fig. 2 ) .
A and cylindrical platinum cups , mm. in diameter , with carefully turned edges .
are screwed to brass tubes and , the upper portions of are moved up and down the larger tubes the pinions supports for the pinions , as well as the tubes in which the racks brass discs ( figs. 1 and 2 ) , the lower faces of which are when they are in their places , in good contact with the top of the oyer .
holes in the cover , closed by these discs , are large enough tq upper pass freely through , so that the latter may be introduced and adjusted , positions after the cover has been put in its place .
The cylindrical , are the lower supports of Sf 5 mm. deep , of the same diameter as the upper cups , are rewed wires bent at right angles and soldered to brass rods These rods pass through tubes , fixed to the ebonite cover .
By the buttons , the platinum rings ean be turned on one side in such a as to all the upper c.ups to be brought into contact with the soap solution , with vbigb of the box is covered to a depth of mm. Both the upper and lower supports for the films can be unscrewed , and different size or material substituted for them .
We ave already. .
platinum rings of and mm. in diameter- respectively , and- .
occa glass rings mm. in diameter .
In order to maintain one or other of the two ] thick , or to }ipkn they had become thin , different methods were .
For ying method , strips of linen were cut about 16 mm. broad , ndlong nougb t a half times round one of the upper cups .
Eaph sbrip as its original vidth , and wrapped round in i4 .
jected above it , and formed a cavity into which liquid could be in its place by cotton thread .
Liquid was upplied to eayity in by the bent glass tubes , which ere open at the top , conical terminatious below .
They were supported by ks cover , and could be turned round or up and dowIl , .Wir just over the cavity formed by the linen wrappers .
By pounng a little of the solution dow1r the tube , the linen could be made to supply liquid at a greater OX BHE SiON LIQUID FILMS .
ffitA revent its thinnihg .
It is convenient to describe operation , to * drill tly fer , as flooding the film .
As it was important that total quantity of liquid on the foor of the box should not increase , as this would fhvdved absw the forms'of he films ; the hquid used in flooding was \amp ; oin the itself .
Two holes fig. 1 ) , were provided at the back he ffir the insertion of a all pipette , and liquid was drawn up to a fixed rk on the tube so as to supply on eacil occasion the same amount of liquid to ) By nieank also ensured , as far as }ossible , that the temperature of the 'sed in flooding should be the same as that of the film itself second method which used to or retard thinning consisted in ah up the film .
The rding screws for attaching the leads Saen at .
The electromotiVe generally used about 45 , add galvanobeter in the cuit indicated the strength of the ffile .
Ah the effeet of an eJectric in retarding or accelerating the thinning of a liquid film has been ready published by us .
* The wires ass through perforations in two discs of sheet india-rubber , and ffln be moVed in ahy .
If the pointed axe wetted with the solution , they may be used to detach and carry away small bubbles which sometimes to ffle supports , and might , ffallowed to remain , cause irregular thinning .
glass partition inches broad , is attached to the cover of the box , and exterids t6 within lf an inch of the liquid at the bottom .
It was designed to prevent the spray caused by the bursting of one of the films -from injuring the other .
thermometers , were fitted by corks into holes in the lid near the back of box , one at each side , and a hair hygrometer served to indicate any change -which might occur in the hygrometric state of the air .
To:ensure temperature , the film bok was enclosed in a glass tank filled With water , the dimensions of which were such that there were 3 inches of water on of the box except at the top and bottom .
The riments ere all made under such conditions that the variations of temperature and hygrometric state were within the limits which previous meant had proved to be necessary to maintain the films in a constant state .
We have not therefore thought it necessary to give the thermometer and hygrometer readings .
The lengths of the films were measured by a cathetometer placed at a distance of 11 feet from the box .
Their diameters were measured by a small telescope moving along an optical bench of Prof.'OLIFToN 's pattern .
The position of the telescope could be read by a vernier to one or two hundredths of a milimetre .
The optical bench rested on a ] stone table , and was about 8 feet from the film box .
Usually a narrow strip ofmillboard was placed behind each film , and the edge of the ffim was thus viewed by reflected light .
When the film was thick enough to show colours , the readings * Phys. Soc. Proc vol. 6 , p. 357 .
could be made with considerable precision .
The .was black , but even in this case .
the accuracy attainable-was greater migbt expected considering the small amount of light reflec .
The liquid used was , unless the contrary is stated , de with .
- \amp ; -w Pharm Its composition has been described by ns in- .
the paper on the in the electric current on the rate of thinning of films previously eroed to : refractive index was for the sodium line D. As nothing in this paper depends on the very accurate measu of thickness of the films , we estimated it approximately by noting the colour edge , so that the light was nearly at azing incidence .
The thickness correspo to any colour may therefore be taken as one and a half times greater than if incidence had been normal .
The error made in this probably .
not ; than 2 per cent. Inasmuch also as we had to deal with much thinner films than used in our experiments on the electrical conductivity of the films , the difficul estimating the colour accurately was much greater .
The thickness of the film indicated by a certain colour is thus nearly , of that of a plate of air showing the same colour by means of light fffing it at normal incidence .
In the following Table , Column I. contains the name of the colour , Column II .
sylnbol of the middle of the colour on the system previously adopted by us .
In symbols the letter is the first letter of the name of the colour , the first figure in brackets indicates the order .
colour divided into ten numb .r , 1 , 2 , in the order of increasing thickness , and the second number indicates the .
of , colour displayed .
In the third column are the thicknesses expressed in millionths .
a millimetre , corresponding to the colours when displayed in a thin plate of air nor al incidence .
In the first order these numbers are with of and black ) taken from NEWTON'S table .
They are only very.roughly accufu The other orders are taken from our own table .
* They are only the blue of the second order .
Above that colour they are probably 1 cent. In the fourth column are the same numbers as in , olumn III .
, ingree by one-eighth .
They give the thickness of the film a given col when mentioned in the present paper .
'Phil .
Trans vol. 172 ( Part 2 , 1881 ) , p. 456 .
ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
In describing the experiments it is convenient to have a symbol which enables us to express the colour shortly .
The two films are distinguished as the right and left respectively , and and are used to indicate their colours .
Thu-s , if the film was uniform in tint , means\mdash ; the colour of the right film was the middle of the green of the second order .
If two colours are indicated between brackets they are those of the top and bottom of the film respectively .
Thus may be read\mdash ; the colour of the left film varied between the middle of the blue of the second order at the top and the middle of the green of the third order at the bottom .
If the film displayed any black , the length in miLimetres is written first ; thus means\mdash ; the right film displayed five millimetres of black at the top , and the the remainder varied between the middle of the white of the first order , which contact with the black , and the beginning of the orange of the first order bottom .
Results of Preliminary Experiments .
The first experiments which we performed were designed to test the observat of LUDTGE and DER MENSBRUGGHE as to the differen of tension between films , of which one had been formed more recently than the other .
The symbols and indicate the principal diameters of the right and left respectively , and @\mdash ; The diameter of the rings is , the distance between them All lengths are given in millimetres except when otherwise stated .
In calculat in which the sensitiveness is used they must be expressed in centimetres .
The following experiment was made as a test of the rapidity with which the would return to their position of equilibrium when disturbed .
Thoe gave an i\amp ; the readiness with which the arrangement would respond to a change of tension .
Experiment Two films were made , flooded , and put into communication .
Five minutes eight minutes afterwards the diameters were measured .
The time elapsed since formation of the films is indicated by .
The results were as follows:\mdash ; The two films were now separated , and the right hand one was blown out a littl The diameters were then measured .
At the stop-cock was opened , so that the interiors of the films were communication , and the following observations taken .
The colour of both still the green of the third order .
ON THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
The result of this experiment was satisfactory .
The mean difference of the diameters , having been increased from mm. to mm. , was reduced to mm. two minutes after communication between the films was re-established .
There appears to have been a slight alteration of the zero reading , but the new position of equilibrium was rapidly taken up .
When the large rings were used the movements of the films were slower , but , as all the principal experiments described in this paper were made with the small rings , the above observation is the only one which need be given in to illustrate the point .
Experiment II .
The following is a typical example of a large number of experiments which proved that in general the thicker film behaved as it had the greater surface tension .
The left film was flooded at intervals of ten minutes , while the right was allowed to thin .
The diameters were measured every ten minutes .
When the first traces of black appeared in the right film it was flooded , and the left was allowed to thin till traces of black appeared .
The interval between the two extreme measurements , which are alone given below , was 1h .
During this time the temperature of the film box was steady at C. The glass rings were used .
We have already remarked that the alternate flooding of the two films doubles the sensitiveness of the apparatus as a means of detecting small changes in surface tension .
If , therefore , the values given on p. 645 may be applied to such considerable differences of the diameters , we have per cent. This calculation is given chiefly as an illustration of the sensitiveness of our method .
A number of possible objections have to be considered before it can be accepted as a trustworthy determination of an actual difference of surface tension between the films .
PROFESSORS A. W. REINOLD AND A. In the first place , we may state that we were most scruputousIy oerefi ] abou cleanliness of the apparatus .
It was always taken to pieces as soon as the ments were over , and the glass box , rings , tubes , linen bands , \amp ; c. , were all wash distilled water .
The bands were left to soak all night , and when required were out and dried with blotting paper .
The films were always flooded before an ex meant began , so that the cups and bands were well washed down with the solu We found also that successive films , when thus treated , behaved in a much uniform way than if the flooding was omitted .
We have at times replaced the rings by the glass ones , and been most careful that the liquid should touch but glass and linen , but the phenomenon above described was as marked as be Lastly , if one of the films was thickened by the electric current it contracted it would do if thickened by flooding .
The fact that the thicker film displayed greater surface tension cannot , therefore , be due to any peculiarity of the appa or mode of thickening adopted .
Experiment III .
As a crucial test as to whether the weight of the thicker film had anything with the phenomenon , we placed the larger rings the upper and the smaller on the lower supports .
We thus obtained two unduloidal films , which ma described as approximately cones with the smaller ends below .
It is evident th one of these films were heavier than the other the pressure exerted on the enclose would thereby be diminished , and the heavier film would bulge .
Expenment that , on the contrary , it contracted , thus indicating that the was increase Experiment IV .
The question as to whether the phenomenon was due to the fact that in the thi film the liquid is falling more or less rapidly was answered by closing the cock the down-rush was practically over .
communication between the films restored the thicker one contracted as usual .
The fact that the film contracted if it was slowly thickened from below by electric current pointed to the same conclusion .
It was , in the next place , important to determine whether the gradual disappear of the liquid rings by which the thinning film is attached to the solid supports produce changes in the value of which would account wholly or partially for phenomenon observed .
If an unduloid differs but little from a cylinder of radius , we may write maximum and minimum ordinates and .
Any other ordinate expressed by ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
Hence , if we neglect the squares of small quantities , . . .
( 15 ) If be the difference of the abscissae of two points for which and are the nlues of , then , to the same approximation , .
( 1C ) Let Then Now from equation ( 4 ) or , neglecting the squares of small quantities , . .
( 17 ) If now we take three points on the unduloid , such that the distances between conoecutive points measured parallel to the axis are equal , then to the first approximation But , from two equations similar to ( 17 ) , Also Multiplying the last equation by 2 , and subtracting , Since and are independent , we may suppose the unduloid to have been derived from any convenient cylinder , and the calculations are simplified if we select that the radius of which is the mean of the three quantities \amp ; c. PROFESSORS A. W. REfNOLD AND A. In this case , and This formula affurds a means of deciding whether auy slipping of the liquid takes place .
We have carried out the above calculations to the saeond approximation , but , as the numerical work is troublesome and the correction duced is small , we here neglect the squares of small quantities .
A vertical millimetre scale was placed by the film box , and the reading on this determined , which corresponded to the middle of the distance between the which the films were attached .
The diameters were then measured not only in horizontal , but also in planes 1 cm .
above and below it .
The values of , and were thus found , and was determi without any assumption as to the nature of the attachments of the films to the cups Since the pressures exerted by the films on the internal air were the same , we ha whence is found .
It can also be calculated from the measurements of the principal ordinates and \amp ; the sensitiveness .
If the results of the two methods agree the assumption madi the earlier part of this paper that the generating curve of the film passes through edges of the upper and lower cups is justified .
In making an experiment with a thick film as the standard of comparison , it necessary that the same amount of liquid should always be used in flooding , and the measurements should always be made at the same interval after that In the experiment now to be described the flooding took place between each pair readings near the top , middle , and bottom of the .
One minute elapsed betwe the flooding and the beginning of the measurements , and three minutes between secutive floodings .
The readings were taken in the order : top , bottom , middle , botto top , \amp ; c. , so that the measurement of the principal diameter corresponded to the mean the two for the top and bottom , from which it was in point of time equidistant .
error due to slow changes in the position of equilibrium was thus as far as obviated .
The following results were obtained when the left film was colourless , and who ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
Using equation ( 18 ) , we find that the surface tension of one film exceeded that of he other by per cent. Ako , since cm .
and the limiting sensitiveness for the two cylinders is So that by this formula the difference of surface tension is given as per cent. Considering that both equation ( 18 ) and the limiting sensitiveness are here applied to films which differ considerably from cylinders , these results are in satisfactory agreement and prove that the greater part of the difference of form of the two films cannot be ascribed to any slipping of the liquid attachments to the solid supports .
To show that this point needed careful investigation , we may remark that it seemed rima facie probable that the bulging film might be forced out and the contracting film drawn in a little so that they were virtually attached to rings a little larger and a little smaller than those actually employed .
If this had affected the radii only to the extent of mm. the effect on the calculated difference of surface tension would have been very great .
Thus , assuming the principal diameters to have remained unaltered , but the others to have been increased in the right and diminished in the left film by mm. , the values of in the above table would have been and .
The difference of surface tension given by these numbers is per cent. , while that calculated from the sensitiveness remains , as before , per cent. It is evident , therefore , that it was only by careful measurement that we could assure ourlelves that the source of error we are now investigating was not affecting our results to a very serious amount .
We have made a considerable number of similar experiments which prove that the method of measuring three ordinates genel.ally gives results from per cent. to 1 per oent .
lower than those obtained from the sensitiveness .
The following Table is a sample of our results when the films had settled down to a constant state .
It shows the numbers obtained by a series of consecutive measurements on the same film .
The value of is given in percentages .
The left film was flooded at three minute intervals .
TABLE V. When both films are flooded , and are therefore presumably in the same state , is , notwithstanding , in general a more or less marked difference between diameters .
To this we generally refer as the zero error .
The following results were obtained under these conditions with six different TABLE VI .
These results do Jlot show such a constant difference between the two methods is exhibited in the ious table , and it is , therefore , probable that when the bulgin and contraction of the films becomes considerable there is a little Taking , however , the lowest figures , these experiments are , we think , fatal VAN DER MENSBmUGGHE'S explanation .
He explains similar phenomena by the general prin iple : " " Si la couch superficielIe d'un liquid augment , ou ' devienne le siege d'une energy potentiel]e qu'ele no possedait pas d'abord , il refroidissement , et la tension est plus grande q.ue primitivement , \amp ; c * From this point of .
view the surface of the liquid of which the thick film is forg is continually being renewed , it is therefore cooled , and the result is due to increase of surface tension which follows .
* Bruxelles , Acad. Sci. Mem vol. 43 No. 4 , p. 7 ) .
ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
, however , impossible to account for the smallest of the diffel.ences of surface non shown in Table V. in this way .
a gramme of water were drawn out into a film of 100 sq .
cm .
the cooling effect old be 1/ 4803 degree C. * But the thickness of the thinnest soap films has been roved by us to be about cm .
Hence , in thinning to this degree of tenuity , the would be cooled only a little more than C. But since , if is the temperature ntigrade , the increase of surface tension due to the cooling would be only about per cent. Now a colourless film , which has been recently flooded , is certainly 250 times thicker than a black one , so that if the heat were distributed uniformly throughout the whole mass of the film the increase of surface tension would be only per cent. The enormous discrepancy between this number and that actually given by our experiments ( 9 per cent. in Experiment III .
) cannot be explained away by the small corrections which would no doubt have to be made if data were used which apply accurately to the soap solution instead of those derived from water .
One of these corrections would indeed strengthen the argument , for , as the surface tension of the solution is than that of water , the cooling effect of the stretching would be decreased .
Calculations based on VAN DER MENSBRUGGHE'S experiments indicate differences of surface tension as great as those on which our argument depends .
We have , however , proved that the various possible sources of error discussed above , and which have not been previously investigated , do not seriously affect the sult .
We may add that , although we have only cited a few experiments , we have performed many .
Thus when we balanced a sphere against a sphere the sensitiveness was so great that the films broke before the limit to the movement was approached .
The change of form was so great that the limiting sensitiveness could not be considered to apply even approximately .
It is not , however , easy to decide what is the particular cause , if it can be referred to one cause only , to which the change in the surface tension of one of the films due .
Experiment We tried the effect of increasing largely the quantity of carbonic acid and of oxygen in the air within and without the films , and to this end passed gentle currents of these gases through the film box , and formed the by means of them instead of air .
As was to be expected , the liquid became turbid under the action of the carbonic * Baynes ' ' Thermodynamics , ' p. 156 .
CCCLXXXVI .
acid , and if fresh liquid which had not been exposed to the aehion of the to flood the thick film it instead of contracting .
Oxygen , on the of , her hand , appeared to increase the phenomenon offi inobserved , or , at all events , to accelerate it .
Thus , when the film box was filled with air , the difference of the increased by mm. in , when the left film was flooded at 3 minute interv the right film being allowed to thin .
The films were then blown with purified oxygen , and a current was passed throu the box .
In two successive experiments which were then made under the same conditions before , except that oxygen was used , the change in the diameter was mm. in 9 minutes .
These experiments cannot be considered conclusive , but they indicate that phenomenon under discussion is affected by the nature of the gas with which ffims are in contact .
To have put the matter to a thoroughly satisfactory test won have required a complete remodelling of our apparatus .
We did not carry inquiry further , partly on this account , and partly because we had collected eviden which proved that the greater tension of the thicker film was not due merely to thickness .
The cause of the difference was therefore outside the immediate scope our investigation .
One reason for this conclusion is that the results obtained with the same liqni are very irregular .
In three consecutive experiments , performed on th6 same day , in each of which the thin film displayed the cOlours of the third order , the valu of 8 were , and .
On the previous day , when a longer interval elapse between the floodings , two consecutive experiments gave for similar thickness @105 and .
Again , different solutions behaved very differently .
The results were obtained with a solution of potash soap which had been recently ma An exactly similar solution a year old gave when displaying the green of third order .
In the next place , so much of the change takes place before the thinner ffim is enough to display any colours that if it is really due to the thinness of the film the radius of molecular attraction must be at least mm. Many of our experiment .
have shown that between one half and one quarter of the total change takes pheli while the thin film is still colourless .
On the whole , then , we are inclined to the view that this phenomenon is mere a striking instance of the difficulty which many observers have found in praeorving liquid surface pure .
OBERBECK found that the superficial viscosity of water expo for 24 hours to the air became immeasurably large , but regamed its when the surface was cleansed by a clean strip of platinum .
He concl des , mussen daher schliessen , entweder , dass der freien Wasseroberfflche ein recht tender Oberflachenwiderstand zukommt , oder dass eine reine ON THE THTCKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
tihrung mit Luft uberhaupb nicht existirt * It seems probable that a liquid gwn out into a film would be especially liable to such changes , and that the stant renewal- of the surface of the thick film would tend to maintain its purity , therewith its surface tension .
Adopting , then , the conclusion that the rapid fall in the surface tension of a newly med ffim is due , not to its thinning , but to a disturbing cause , it remains to be seen whether this can be reduced or ated so as to permit a comparison of films of :ery different thicknesses .
We have found that this is possible , but , though the metho\amp ; ' which we have adopted are such as would natura ] suggest themselves , the determination of the best conditions of experiment has cost a large expenditure of time and trouble .
In the first place , we have employed the method of measuring the principal ordinates only , and using the sensit , iveness to calculate the difference of tension ( if any ) between the films .
In what follows these differences will be very small , and we have shown that , in this case , both methods lead to very similar mean results .
The method of measuring three ordinates is also too laborious to be used if another will serve equally well .
It necessitates continual measurements being made , and , though very useful for the elucidation of the particular point to which it was directed , is very troublesome and fatiguing , as twenty-three readings are necessary to obtain a single comparison .
Again , we were not satisfied with the flooded as a standard with which to compare that which was allowed to thin .
The difference of the surface tensions , and , therefore , of the forms of the films , was too great for accuracy .
It was thought possible that the comparatively small disturbance produced by retarding the thinning by the electric current might make a film , up which a current was either constantly or at intervals passed , a better standard than one which was flooded between consecutive measurements .
The following experiment , which was made to see if a film could be kept thick and in an approximately constant state by short intermittent applications of the current , will perhaps serve to show the difficulty of eliminating the disturbing cause by any such means .
Experiment Two cylinders were formed , flooded , and put into communication .
Five minutes afterwards @\mdash ; mm. Both films were colourless for the most part , but displayed thin rings of colour at the top .
The current was then sent up the right cylinder for .
The coloured rin gs disappeared .
At from the beginning of the experiment , and about after the passage of the current , the right ffim was colourless .
' WIEDEMANN , Annalen , ' vol. 11 , 1880 , PROFESSORS A. W. RElNOLD AND A. with rings of higher orders at At ; the right was colourless , and both had rmgs @\mdash ; 0.27 .
Now , remembering that that a negative value of 8 therefore that the left film had the larger diameter , this experiment indicates that the of the current for only produced a difference in the diameter of the rings .
afterwards amounted to mm. , and afterwards to mm. , and that film disturbed by the current had the greater surface tension .
At the current was sent up the right film for colouffi appeared .
At the right film was faintly coloured , and The disturbance produced by the current was less than before , which for by the fact that the film , though colourless , was really thinner than when it previously applied , and thus , the resistance in circuit being greater , the current weaker .
That the film was thinner is proved by the fact that , whereas after the application of the current the right film remained for the most part colourless for minutes , on the second occasion it showed faint colours after four minutes .
observation shows that in a film which is not very thick the current may be pass for a few seconds without leaving any trace of its action three minutes afterwat but unfortunately it also proves that such treatment is not sufJicient to prevent film from thinning .
At the current was sent up the right film for , and the following meaeu ments were made : At At @\mdash ; 0.44 .
In this case the longer passage of the current caused a considerable disturbanoo , effects of which were very marked afterwards .
The experiment was continue# the same way , the measurement showing that a current which produced an retardation in the thinning also produced an appreciable diff.erence , the Seventy..one minutes after the beginning the state of things follows : ON THF2 THICKNESS AND SORFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
ffims were then cut off from communication , and bhe current was passed up the film for : the black disappeared and the part became colourless .
The cock was opened again eight minutes after the passage of the current , and a urement taken when it had been open two minutes .
{ , colourless } , S\mdash ; 118 .
Shorbly afterwards the thin film broke .
The foregoing observations proved that the disturbance produced by thickening one the films died out some minutes after the disturbing cause was removed .
If , then , surface tension assumed its final value hile a film was still moderately thick it might be possible , by balancing films of very different thicknesses , to obtain some evidence as to whether any further difference of tension due only to the difference in thickness could be detected .
We , therefore , gave one of the films a start by thickenthe others some time after their first formation , and then compared them when another considerable interval of time had elapsed .
This method is attended with several difficulties .
In the first place , the operation takes a long time , during which slow changes in the zero error take place .
Thus , if the two films are first compared when both have been recently flooded , and afterwards when one is black and the other coloured , a slight difference in the position of equilibrium may be observed , due to changes in th liquid rings , \amp ; c. On some occasions , when one of the films has been entirely black , the lower liquid ring has disappeared .
This phenomenon is accompanied by a slight shift in the position of equilibrium .
Again , if the start is too short the films are too similar to make the comparison of much use ; if it is too long the thin film is apt to break before the thick one is ready for observation .
These difficulties are increased by the fact that it is not safe to leave the films in communication while one of them is being thickened .
A black film is almost certain to break if subject to a disturbance which may ] its diameter by one or two millimetres .
It is , therefore , necessary to separate the films while the thickening takes place , and not to put them into communication until after the interval which experience has proved to be sufficient to prevent any great change in diameter .
We have attempted as far as possible to overcome these difficulties , and have carried out our observations in two different ways .
First Method of Experiment .
The fact that the method 01 measuring three ordinates confirmed that based upon the measurement of the principal diameters only , in indicating a small difference of surface tension between the films , even when both had been recently flooded , proves either that such differences really exist or that some slight outstanding cause of error affects methods equally .
In either case it seemed best to argue in each experiPROFESSORS A. W. REiNOLD AND A. : meant , not from the theoretical position of equilibrium , but films which were as similar as we could make them .
Two cylindrical films were therefore flooded and put into communi diameters were measured several times , and the differenee , if oonstant , reading .
After an interval , which depended on the rate of thinning , the films separated , and one was thickened by means of the current , generally until the of the third order reached the top .
If no black appeared on the thicker communication was re-established after , and the diameters were measured afterwards .
If the black began to appear at the top of the thick film befooe after thickening , the stop-cock was opened sooner .
By this means we gen succeeded in comparing two films , one of which was nearly black , while the displayed a little black a the colours of the first or second orders .
If the of equilibrium was the same as when both films were thick the experiment evidence of any difference of surface tension between a black film and one many thicker than itself .
If it was not the same the difference of surfaoe was calculated from the tiveness .
Both films were then allowed to thin , and , assuming that that which was black remained in a constant state , we were able to observe whether any change diameter took place as the coloured film became black .
If it did it furnished us another measurement of the difference of surface tension under investigation .
evident ] the mean of two such measures obtained from the same ffims probably be free from error caused by any slight change in the position of due to causes other than.the increasing tenuity of the films .
Accidental errors woo of course disappear on the mean of a number of experiments .
This method is , however , open to an objection which requires discussion .
We seeking for evidence of a difference of surface tension ( if any such existed ) betwe black and a coloured ffim .
Most of the films observed were , however , partly and partly coloured .
If any difference of tension existed between their different the films would not be cylinders or simple unduloids , but the black and colou portions would be of different curvatures .
Measurements based on the sensitiven would not therefore be trustworthy if , upon the comparatively simple changes of assumed in the calculation of that quantity , other and more complex variations superposed .
We have therefore investigated the form of a film nsisting of parts of different surface tensions , assuming that it does not differ much f'rom cylinder .
If the surface tensions are and , the generating curve of the regarded as consisting of two parts , PR and , which unduloidal of different curvatures .
The conditions which these curves must satisfy are as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
) If and , are the , differences of the abscissae of and ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
respectively , then and may be considered as constants which are given by the conditions of the problem .
The values of the ord.inates which correspond to and must both be The ordinate of must be the same for both curves .
The tangent at must be the same for both curves .
The sum of the volumes of the two unduloids contained between the rings may be taken as given .
The pressures exerted by the two parts of the film on the enclosed air must be the same .
These eight conditions may be used to determine the eight unknowns , vi and , the values of which correspond to and , and and , the alues of which correspond to , considered as belonging in the first case to PR , and in the second to The discontinuity at is dependent on the fact that in the cylinder the of which corresponds to any given point is indeterminate .
We shall carry out the oalculation to the first order of small quantities only .
Using the same notation as before , we have , as in equations ( 15 ) and ( 16 ) , , ( 19 ) ( 20 ) In like manner we get from ( 5 ) , whence , substituting from ( 19 ) and ( 20 ) , .
But , so that , if be the difference between the sum of the volumes of the figures generated by PR and and the volume of the cylinder , . . . .
( 21 ) Again , since and similarly Equating the two expressions for the square of the common ordinate at Since , by BEER'S equation , we have , by equating the expressions obtained by substituting the values of in of , and , and , and Substituting from ( 20 ) in ( 23 ) and ( 24 ) , , and .
Again , substituting in these equations from ( 22 ) , ' and also ' therefore Also from ( 21 ) and ( 24 ) . .
ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
660- , if we are dealing with one film only which is not connected with another , and would assume the cylindrical form when of uniform surface tension , .
In case we get from equations ( 26 ) and ( 27 ) ' , solving these equations , we get ( 28 ) If is the difference between the internal pressure and that exerted by a cylindrical film of radius , or , from ( 22 ) , .
( 29 ) The angles and can now be found from ( 28 ) .
By means of ( 25 ) and ( 29 ) and are given in terms of , and thus and are known from ( 22 ) .
We shall suppose that the suffix 2 refers to the black part of the film .
The general nature of the changes of form which the film would undergo as increased can easily be deduced from the equations .
When From the first of these conditions we deduce or .
The first of these values corresponds to the case where is negative , when the part of the surface would bulge ; the second to the case where is positive .
Since in each case the tangent to the unduloid is parallel to the axis , an infinitely thin ling , of different surface tension to the rest of the film , would not cause any finite change of form .
Evaluating , we get which gives the initial value of The distance from the point halfway between the rings of the point at which the initial unduloid would cut the generating line of the cylinder is , where and have , of course , their initial values .
If and be such that and , it is evident from ( 28 ) that and , so that But from ( 29 ) and ( 25 ) and from the same equations and ( 22 ) whence , substituting for , and in terms of , and and in like manner .
It folows that the maximum distances of the parts of the film from the cylinder are the same whether the black covers or of the entire film , but that the maximum contraction in the one equal to the maximum bulge in the other , and vice versed .
The following Table contains in the first column the fraction of the entire Jengt the film over which the change in surface tension is supposed to have extendA the second and third colutnns are the corresponding values of and calcuIa for the case in which .
The next four columns contain quantities from \amp ; c. , can be determined .
In the last column is the ratio of the change of caused by a partial change of surface tension to that produced by the extension of change over the entire film .
Thro.ughout is considered positive .
Since , when is positive , and refer to parts of the two unduloids do not lie between the rings , it follows from this Table that the greatest diver of any part of the generating curves from the generating line of the initial cyhnd If , therefore , as in most of our experiments , mm. if , it follows that the greatest change in the diameter of the uud the gradual spread of a change of surface tension of 1 per oent .
would bo only greater than mm. , a quantity which certainly lies within the .
of * of experiment .
If , therefore , a film was half black and haif ooloured it ' ON THE HICKNESS AND SURFAOE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
ceciably ffom a cylinder if the difference of surface tension was only 1 per cent. .premure , however , would have altered by per cent. , and if the film were now into communication with another which was coloured throughout an appreciable nge in the principal diameters would take place .
This is evident from the fact , if the change in the pressure exerted by the first film had been due to its surface rion having altered throughout by cent. , the difference in the principal meters would have been mm. It follows , therefore , that if two lms are in communication , and if the surface tension of a part of one differs slightly that of the remainder , the asymmetry of this film is small compared with the ange produced in the principal diameters of the two films .
We may , therefore , as a approximation to the truth , regard the sensitiveness of an experiment in which only of the filrn is black as proportional to The numbers given in the last column of Table VII .
may be plotted in a curve , the cissae being the fractions of the whole length of the cylinder covered by the black , the ordinates the values of If in any .
experiment the length of the black part of the film incl.eased from ( say ) to of the whole length of the cylinder , the effective length would be ; and the alteration of pressure is shown by the curve to be from 0.1 to 0.9 , i.e. , of the whole alteration which would be produced if a coloured film became completely black .
If the thicker film displays some black , the effective length of the black in the thinner film is the difference of the lengths in the two films .
It will be observed that different changes in the pressure may be produced by the same change in the effective length .
Thus or 0.8 according as the length of the black increases ffom to , or from 0.2 to of the whole length of the cylinder .
We now proceed to describe the experiments .
It is necessary to do this in considerable detail , as no two were alike , and the results do not admit of being stated shortly so as to include all facts which might have affected the results .
Experiment VIII .
Three measurements were made when the films were in ]nilar The films were then separated , and the current was sent up the left fil colours of the third order reached the top .
This operation was repeated at current was taken off at ; at the ] were again and the follo observations were taken:\mdash ; In this case the final measurements gave a comparison between two films , of one was black and the other displayed on the average mm. of black only .
Th erence between the principal diameters was , however , only mm. different \amp ; 0 what it was when the films were in very , similar states , the change being such as prove that the left film had contracted a little , i.e. , that the surface tension of th right film when black was a little less than when it was coloured .
If this were so , however , since 25 mm. of the left film were black , the effecti difference between the tensions of the two films was of what it would been , had the left film been coloured throughout .
The sensitiveness is therefO , and thus Hence according to this experiment the surface tension of a black film is less that of a coloured one by per cent. Experiment IX .
In this case one of the films which had become partly black in-a poevious meant was used .
Hence initial zero was obtained .
The thicker. .
filox thickened by the current after the films were first put into ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACB TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
was broken at and the stop.cock was opened at .
The following rvations vere taken:\mdash ; The value of 8 fell as the left ffim thinned .
The last two observations were as kllows :\mdash ; The right film may be presumed to have remained in the same state throughout the experiment .
The length of the black part of the left film increased from 4 mm. to 22 mm. The difference of pressure must therefore have increased from to , i.e. , by of the total difference between a coloured and a black film .
During the same time @ changed by mm. , the movement being such as to indicate an increase in the diameter , i.e. , a falling-off in the tension of the film which was becoming black .
Hence per cent. The films were made as usual , and the preliminary observations were taken:\mdash ; The right film was then thickened by meaus of the current .
The circuit was broken at , the stop-cock opened at first reading gave , and the value of 8 increased ( algebraically ) .
The following observations were taken at the times indicated :\mdash ; The first comparison showed that altered by mm. , the movement such as to indicate an increase in the surface tension of the film which displayed : most black .
Since the thicker film had mm. of black , while the thinner hadaverage amount of mm. , the difference of pressure could only have been of full amount .
Hence per During the second part of the experiment the movement of the z'ero continueCl the same direotion , which must be interpreted as a falling-off in the surface tensioa the light film , which was now becoming black .
As the black extended only from to mm. , per oent .
This experiment illustrates the importance of obtaiming , if possible , two ments with the same pair of films .
The fact that the change in the .
magnitudes the principal diameters went on without reference to the thinning of the filma strong evidence that that change was not caused by the alterations in their rehti thicknessea Bxperiment XI .
The same films were used as in Experiment L The final in experiment gave as the initial difference of the diameters .
At the end both filme were ffist thickened by the current and then flooded .
The value of found was The mean of the two values is During the greater part of the time that the experiment lasted the passing .
The circ was broken at after the films were first made , and following observation was taken:\mdash ; ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
change in the value of 8 from the mean of the two values obtained when the were in the same state was mm. Hence per cent. Experiment XII .
The following observations were made to determine the zero : The current was then passed up the left film , but in spite of this it continued to become thinner .
The circuit was broken at , the stop-cock was opened at and the following observations taken:\mdash ; The first comparison gives per cent. The second gives per cent. Experiment XIII .
On this occasion the films were allowed to thin for some time before one of them was thickened .
The value of 8 changed considerably .
Thus at @009 , at , at .
The last three readings gave the following results:\mdash ; The current was used to accelerate the thinning of the of the other .
The circuit was broken a.t , and afterwark .
ments were made : The effective change in the length of the black in the first companson was 8 mm. to 24 mm. , the alteration in 8 was mm. in the direction indicating falling-off in the surface tension of the black film .
Hence From the second part of the experiment we get per cent. Second Method of Experiment .
Our second group of experiments was intended to utilize a fact which we observed , viz. , that a spherical film thins more slowly than a cylinder .
A cylinder the usual dimensions length diameter ) was formed on one of the smaller pa of rings .
The larger rings were used to form the sphere , and , since the ratio of the diameter to that of the smaller pair was very approximately , it is evidgt , the distance between them was made , that a sphere would be formed radius of which was , and which would therefore be in equilibrium with cylinder if the surface tensions were identical .
In consequence of the slow thin of the sphere , a longer interval could generally be allowed after flooding with arrangement than when two cylinders were employ It was found that , even when the films were newly formed , the ratio of diameters always differed appreciably from its theoretical value of 2 : 1 .
probably due to slight errors of adjustment and to the effect of the liquid ri The experiment consisted in testing whether the difference between the was the same when the two films were thick as it was when the cylinder was thinner than the sphere .
The sensitiveness was The spherical film rareJy showed more than one or two milhmetoes of ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
of which ay be neglected .
When the cylindrical film was only partially the theoretical sensitiveness can be calculated as in the last group of experiWe give , as in the last group , all the experiments which were made in which a ufficient difference of thickness was established to make the comparison useful .
xperiment X The stop-cock was opened five minutes after the films had been made and flooded .
No further flooding took place .
At after communication had been established readings were begun .
The colours of the sphere and cylinder are indicat , ed by C. and , the difference tween their diameters by @ .
We now omit a number of readings , the differences given by which were , and Afterwards the following observations were taken:\mdash ; The sudden formation the black was in this experiment accompanied by no change in the value of 8 , hence Experiment At the beginning of the experiment the following measurements were made : The films were then separated .
At the sphere was flooded .
was opened at , and the following values of were obtainffi , at S1987 , The last three readings were as follows We noticed that in this case , when the black reached the bottom , the liquid disappeared , and we are , therefore , inclined to attribute the last reading to slight change in The decrease in the value of S indicates a buIging of the cylinder , i.e. , a fallingin its surface tension .
per cent. Experiment The first two readings were as follows:\mdash ; The films were separated .
At the sphere was flooded .
The stop-cock opened at , and the following values of were obtained , beginning at S1951 , The last four readings were as follows:\mdash ; In this case the liquid ring did not disappear when the black reachd .
the bottom per cent ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
Two measurements were made , when the sphere was ourless , and the cylinder , with the exception of about 2 mm. at the top , which showed rings of colour .
The films were then separated , and the sphere was flooded .
At the stop-cock woe again opened , and the following readings , beginning at , gave S2058 , The last two readings were as follows:\mdash ; per cent. Experiment VIII .
Three measurements were made when the ffims were colourless , or very nearly so .
The following readings gave @2061 , 20.75 , 20.97 .
The last two observations were as follows:\mdash ; per cent. When both films were colourless the following observatiotw Successive readings gave afterwards , and The last two observations were as follows:\mdash ; Hence per cent. Results of the Experimoents .
The above experiments give no indication of a continuous change in the surfa tension as the film becomes thinrler .
The differences observed are irregular and as would arise from accidental causes .
Thus , in Experiment VII .
, the black film showed a deficiency of surface tension per cent. when balanced against a film which displayed the blue and green of second order .
In Experiment .
the surface tension of the black film , also Mm against another , which showed the blue of the second order , was in excess by cent. In all cases where the same experiment has furnished two results they make opposite signs , thereby indicating that the difference between the two fihns is not to the fact that one is thicker than the other .
The results are summed up in the following table:\mdash ; ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE NSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
The experiments are not of the same value .
Those in which is most nearly unity are better than those in which it is small .
So many other considerations , however , affect the weight of the observation , e.g. , the time during which it lasts , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. , that we have made no attempt to discriminate between them .
The range of the above observations is from the green of the fifth order to the black of the first .
In Experiment XIX .
a film almost entirely black was balanced against another , the colour of which was .
This tint corresponds to a thickness of about mm. The value of was in this case unusually small .
In these experiments the black extended over the film quietly and regularly .
At times the black is formed with something like a convulsion .
Not only does it spread with extraordinary rapidity , but the edge is violently disturbed and large patches rise through the coloured part of the film .
Whenever this occurs the film breaks ) efore long , but in four cases we were able to obtain measurements before rupture .
We are not able to produce this phenomenon at will , but the few observations we have been able to make on it are in agreement among themselves , and we therefore describe them , as we think they make it necessary to generalise our results with very great caution .
In each case we give the colours and value of 8 from observations taken immediately before and after the sudden increase of the black surface .
A rapid increase was observed in Experiment XIV .
, but the general character of the mode of formation was normal .
The increase tabulated in the last column is the change in @ taken positive when the thinner film bulged .
In all these cases there was a sudden increase in the diameter of the film thinned most rapidly in the peculiar way just described .
We do not wish to much stress on experiments which can only be produced by accidental circumetan but they certainly suggest the inquiry whether one of those be something abnormal in the thickness of the black .
If its surface tension really lower than usual , the rapid formation of the black suffice and tk convul by which it is accompanied would be intelligible .
We therefore think it best to state the general result of our inquiry When the black of a soap film forms in a normal way , spreading the , no evidence of any change in surface tension endent on the the film is furnished by direct comparison of the tensions thin over a range of thickness extending from 1350 to 12 miuionths of a miuimetre .
ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
observations also justify the statement that\mdash ; Ihis conclusion is based upon a melhod of by which a change of -half cent. in the value of the tension must have been detected , it existed .
The further question remains , can any inference } ) drawn from these observations tl the magnitude of the radius of molecular action ?
On this point we venture to think that , if the magnitude of that length is to be tled merely by reference to the equality of the surface tensions of thick and thin films , we have found evidence in favour of its being less than mm. ( half the thickness of an ordinary black film ) , far stronger than that on which the frequently quoted statement of PLATEAU that it is less than mm. is based .
Our observations have been more numerous and more sensitive than his , and on the other hand we have used films much thinner than those employed by him , or by VAN DER MgNSBRUGGHE in his confirmatory observations .
We must admit , however , that we are unwilling to draw any such conclusion until an explanation of the discontinuity in the thickness at the edge of the black is forthooming , which is not incompatible it .
The regular recurrence of that phenomenon suggests that it must in some way be connected with the extreme tenuity of the film on one side of it .
We thought it well that PLATEAU'S method should be pushed ( as we venture to think we have pushed it ) beyond the poin where he and VAN DER MENSBRUGGHE left it , but the fact that it has led to a negative result does not diminish the significance of the sharp edge of the black .
As far as we are aware , no suggestion has yet been made as to the cause of the discontinuity .
We have necessarily had our attention directed to it , and , though our views are at present little more than speculations , yet it may perhaps conduce to a useful discussion if we suggest a cause which might , we tbink , furnish a satisfactory solution of the difficulty .
Suggestion to the of the Discontinuity at the Edge of the Black Part of a Soap Film .
It may be convenient if we collect together the various facts which constitute all that is certainly known as to the behaviour and constitution of a black film .
black part of a soap film in equilibrium , and not subjected to the action of an external force , is always separated from the rest of the film by a clearly defined boundary .
A gradual transition from the black to the thicker parts of the film is only observed either in a film which thins rapidly and breaks soon ( when it is a very transient or when an electric current is passed through the film .
2 .
discontinuity in the thickness indicated at the ry varies very much * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 26 , p. 334 .
on different occasions .
We have seen black at the top a film colourless , and therefore probably 250 times thicker than the black 8 .
The thickness of the black in different films varies between narrow limi4 viz. , from 7 to 14 millionths of a millimetre .
the same film the thickness of the black remains constant , at all events a short time after its first formation .
5 .
No certain difference of surface tension can be detected by direct experi between a persistent black film and a film more than one hundred times thi\amp ; er .
an electric current of sufficient intensity is passed through a film partly black , the boundary becomes ill-defined , and there is a gradual the thickness of the coloured to that of the black part of the film .
7 .
When the current is broken the grey colour which has bridged over the between the black and the rest of the film disappears , and the definite bound indicating a discontinuity in thickness , is re-established .
This operation occupies a few seconds .
The existence of the discontinuity and statements ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) can best be explain if we suppose that for certain intermediate between the black and white of the first order the film is in a state of instability .
It may be maintained this state by the application of an external force , but spontaneously abandons it .
soon as the constraint is removed .
The observations recorded in this paper prove that , under ordinary circumstano the black and coloured films have the same surface tension to within per ewtk [ The re-establishment of the discontinuity between the black and coloured the films , referred to in statement ( 7 ) above , is not instantaneous , but takes place from ten to fifteen seconds .
If , then , the force which produces this result is a diffi ence of surface tension , it must be very small .
We are not , therefore , compelleci suppose that the viscosity of the black is great , as would have been necessary , had measurable difference of surface tension been detected.\mdash ; Nov. 16 , 1886 .
] On other hand , there is evidence that a difference of surface tension , so small that would probably be impossible to measure it , may produce movements in the surfn of a moderately thick bubble .
Thus FtLIX PLATEAU S found that the slight elevation of temperature bringing finger near a film produced movement , and every one is acquainted the vioIent currents seen in a newly-formed bubble .
If this be admitted , the discontinuity at the edge of the black could be expla we suppose that the surface tension has a critical valUe in the grey part of the ' Phil. Trams vol. 174 ( Pt. 2 , 1883 ) , p. 646 .
In fifteen out of eighteen measurements made on single films the results lay between millionths of , millimetre .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 19 , 1885 , p. 94 .
S 'Statique des Liquides , ' vol. 1 , p. 294 .
ON THE THICKNESS AND SURFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
:is always missing if the film is in equilibrium thinning very rapidly ) under the action of its own molecular forces only .
In discussing such a theory , it is of primary importance to determine whether a itical value of the surface tension is physically possible .
is usual to assume that if the thickness of the film is less than that of two surface ayers the tension must be less than that of the liquid in mass .
Thus PLATEAU* argues that in such a film the two layers " " doivent necessairement ercer des actions moins fortes , et consequemment la somme de celles-ci , c'est-a-dire a pression sir l'air interieur , doit etre plus petite que no l'indique la formule Such arguments are based upon the assumption that the force in play between neighbouring molecules is attractive at all distances .
The force exerted on a molecule by its neighbours must no doubt be , on the whole , attractive , and if the film is thin enough the surface tension must diminish .
It is , however , usual , in dealing with other problems in molecular mechanics , to assume the existence of repulsive forces acting at all events between certain limits as to distance .
We need only refer to the wellknown instance of some forms of the dynamical theory of gases , and to the fact that the most recent theory of the nature of matter lately put forward by Professor OSBORNm REYNOLDS leads to the conclusion that the force between two molecules which approach each other is alternately attractive and repulsive .
If such an alternation really takes place the surface tension of a thinnin film will alternately increase and diminish .
This is clearly pointed out by MAXWELL in his article on\ldquo ; ]lary Action\ldquo ; ( ' Encycl .
Brit in which he says:\mdash ; " " The force between the particle and the liquid is certainly on the whole attractive , but if between any two small values of [ the distance of a particle from the surface ] it should be repulsive then for films whose thickness lies between these values the tension will increase as the thickness diminishes , but for all other cases the tension will diminish as thickness diminishes It appears , therefore , that a critical value of the surface tension is not inconsistent with received views as to the nature of the forces in play between the particles of a liquid , and if it existed it would produce phenomena similar to those observed at the edge of a black film .
In all cases we have supposed that the surface tension finally diminishes when the film is very thin , and is constant when it is very thick .
If it has a critical value between these two states , the two simplest suppositions which we can make are ( 1 ) that it has a maximum and a minimum value , ( 2 ) that it has a maximum value only .
( 1 .
) The first of these , which is the more complex supposition , affords in some respects the better explanation of the behaviour of the black part of the film .
Let ns suppose that the change in the surface tension as the filtn becomes thinner is represented by the annexed curve ( fig. 1 ) .
' Statique des Liquides , ' vol. 1 , p. 205 .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 20 , 1885 , p. 479 .
68'2 PROFESSORS A. W. REINOLD AND A. When the film became a little thinner a state of unstable equilibrium .
would be reached .
Tke thickm psrtas of would tear the thinner parts asunder , but rupture would be preveffid that when the point of minimum surface tension was pasaed the : increase until , when the thickness corresponding to was attained , the teogions og thin and thick parts of the film would be the same and equilibrium possible .
The equilibrium would be stable , because if the film became surface tension would increase , and it would tend to contract and thus to thicken. .
Such a theory would explain the approximately constant thiekness of the ] the ground that it would be impossible for it to exist except at a thickness slh that its surface tension was nearly equal to that of the liquid in mass .
When the film very thin its tension would probably alter rapidly with the thickness , and thus latter would be confined within narrow limits .
These considerations would not apply to the liquid on the thicker side boundary .
Its surface tension being independent of the thickness , the nitnde the latter would be indifferent .
If , as is possible by means of the electric current , the discontinuity was filled u\amp ; liquid being forced into the black space , the equilibrium would be unstable .
As ) as the external force was removed the " " grey intermediate in thickness to the and coloured ] , would be absorbed or stretched until it became black .
( 2 .
) If the simpler supposition is made that there is only one alternation of sion and attraction to be considered , the law of the chaIi of the surfaoe might be represented as in fig. 2 .
In this case there would be a preliminary difficulty in explaining the formation , the black , inasmuch as when the point was reached any further deoreaee ness would be resisted by an increase in tension .
As a matter , of fact , black is generally first formed in small specks , and if , owing to a sudden distur the film were thinned to below the maximum of surface tension , equilibrium possible if the thickness were that corresponding to .
The parts the thickness intermediate to and would shrink , and an apparent discontin would be established .
THICKNESS AND SUBFACE TENSION OF LIQUID FILMS .
ffls supposition is also less satisfactory than the last , inasmuch as the equilibrium luld be unstable .
An accidental thinning below would produce rupture .
The at that this does not occur at once might be explained by supposing that the surface mority would play a more important part as the film became thinner .
We need hardly point out that the best way of attempting to test such theories would be to measure the surface tension of a grey film .
Unfortunately , however , such a film can only be obtained when the electric current is passing , and the very that the grey displays itself is a proof that changes in the surface are going on which may complicate the conclusions to be drawn from the experiment .
We have frequently tried to secure satisfactory observations of this kind , but have not succeeded in obtaining any in which we oould with certainty discriminate between the possible effects of the renewal of the surface and a real change in surface tension due to a change in the thickness .
Experiments .
to XXIII .
are the only observations we have made in which an apparent change of surface tension could not be accounted for by the change of surface .
In these observations , however , the latter cause would have produced a contraction instead of a bulging of the black film , and they cannot therefore be set down ae particular cases of the phenomenon studied in the earlier part of the paper .
On one occasion also , when we thickened a black film by passing a current through it till it became grey , no appreciable change of the diameters took place .
This is , perhaps , on the whole in favour of the first of the above hypotheses , as the renewal of the surface and the decrease of the ' specific\ldquo ; tension would act in opposite directions .
Our observations do not , therefore , throw much light on this intricate question .
Experiments which might do so would have to be made with far more complicated apparatus , and with very uncertain prospect of success .
Nothing that we have noticed , however , negatives the view that the discontinuity at the edge of the black is connected with a critical value of the surface tension , caused by an alternation from attraction to repulsion in the inter-molecular forces , if the variations in the magnitude of the surface tension for thicknesses mm. are small .
On the other hand , we are not aware of any other suggested explanation .
hich we upon a view of the nature of the inter-molecular forces in a liquid which ig neglected , but which was recognised by as tenable .
The fir@t offers , at all events , a plausible explanation of the discontinuity , of the tenae the film in spite of the sudden decrease in thickness , and of the constant thickness the black portion of the film .
POSTSCRIPT .
( Added June 18 , 1886 .
Sir WILLIAM THOMSON has informed us in the course of conversation that he suggested a minimum of sm.face tension as the cause of the sharp edge of the blaek in a lecture delivered at the Royal Institution on Friday , January 29 , 1886 .
The discourse has not yet been published , but we are , by his , enabled to give the passage in question from a proof:\mdash ; " " Well-known phenomena of bubbles , and of watery films solids , make it quite certain that the molecular attraction does not become sensible until the distance is much less than 250 micro-millimetres .
From the consideration of such phenomena , QUINCKE ( ' Poggendorff , Annalen , ' 1869 ) came to the conclusion that the molecular attraction does become sensible at distances of about 50 micro-millimetres .
His conclusion is strikingly confirmed by the very important discovery of and that the black film , always formed before an undisturbed soap bubble breaks , has a uniform or nearly uniform thickness of about 11 or 12 micro-millimetres .
The abrupt commencement and the permanent stability of the black film demonstrate a proposition of fundamental importance in the molecular theory .
The tension of film , which is sensibly constant when the thickness exceeds 50 diminishes to a minimum , and begins to increase again when the thickness is dimimshed to 10 micro-mil ] imetres .
It seems not possible to explain this fact by any imaginable ] of force between the different portions of the film supposed .
homogeneous , and we are forced to the conclusion that it depends upon molecnlsf heterogeneousness It is , perhaps , unnecessary to say that we .
were unaware of Sir W. THOMSON'B views till within the last few days , or that we are glad to find that our opinion has support of so high an authority .

