XXVIII .
Some experiments on the changes which take place in the fixed principles of the egg during incubation .
By WILLIAM PROUT , M. D. F. R. S. Read June 20o , 1822 .
IN the year 18163 I was induced to commence a series of experiments on the egg during incubation , with the view of ascertaining the nature of the changes which take place during that process .
My inquiry was chiefly limited to the fixed principles , namely , the earthy and saline matters ; but my attention was more particularly directed to the source whence the earthy matter , constituting the skeleton of the chick , was derived .
With these views , the egg was analyzed in its recent and unaltered state , and at the end of the first , second , and third weeks of incubation .
My experiments were chiefly confined to the eggs of the domestic fowl , but have been likewise partially extended to those of the duck and turkey .
The investigation has been renewed , and the experiments repeated at various intervals since the period above mentioned ; but the difficulty of the subject , and various accidents , have prevented me from completing them till the present time ; and the results , which , after all , are much less perfect than I could wish , I have now the honour of submitting to the Society .
Preliminary experiments on the egg in its recent and unaltered state .
The specific gravity of new laid eggs has been found to vary from i.o8o to.o090o .
When kept for some time , eggs , as is well known , rapidly lose weight , and become so specifically light as to swim in water .
This diminution of specific gravity , however , is only apparent , and depends on the substitution of air for a portion of the water of the egg which escapes ; for it is obvious , that the specific gravity of the constituent principles of the egg must be rather increased than diminished by the escape of water .
The following table shows the gradual loss of weight of an egg during a period of two years .
The original weight on the igth May , 1820 , the day it was laid , was 907.5 grains .
rans .
Loss iGrains .
Loss Grainsper day .
per day .
19 May , 1820.907.5 9 May , 181 .
'648.7.59 320 ... 906.5 ' 1.00 6 e. 647.8.90 24. .
901.3.130 5 December 488.2 &lt; .75 31 .
* 894.2.o01 7 ; . .
486.6.8o r8 June. .
; 886.6.95 21 March , 1822.413.5.70 17 ... 879 3.81 25 April .
384.6.82 27 ... 870.7.86 26 .
uniformly during a very long period.* The loss appears to be somewhat greater in summer than in winter , owing , doubtless , to the difference in temperature , which , in the present instance , varied from 40 ?
to 70 ` .
On being broken , the whole of the contents of this egg were found collected at the smaller extremity in a solid state , but on being put into water , they absorbed a large portion of that fluid , and assumed an appearance not much unlike those of a recent egg ; the smell also was perfectly fresh .
The relative weights of the shell , albunien , and yelk of different eggs are very different .
With the view of investigating this point , and of obtaining something like aln average , the following experiments were made .
The eggs were boiled hard in distilled water , and the different parts weighed immediately in their moist state . ?
Shell and |j Membrane .
Albumen .
Yelk .
| Total .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
394-3 289 I 763.3 i o8 593 73.5 I 974.5 I 107S 3 575.8 23.2 919.3 j 71.5 516.5 2 15 I 803 }1 03 503-7 -69.3 876 i 107 515.3 273.4 i 895.7 93.2 605.5 grains , the weights of the constituent principles of each , when reduced to this common standard , will be as follow : Shell and Membrane .
Albumen .
Yelk .
, Grains , Grains .
Grains .
104.8 516.6 786 i1o.8 608.5 280.7 X 16.7 626.3 257.0 89.0 643.2 267.8 117.6 575.0 3074 119.5 575.3 305 .
i 98.0 636.6 265,4 107.1 596.0 296.9 S 118.3 624.0 257.7 87.5 640.0 272.5 Average 0lo6.9 604.2 288.9 Hence , if we suppose a recent egg to weigh one thousand parts , the relative proportions of the shell , albumen , and yelk , will be as o106.9 , 604.2 , and 288.9 ; and for the sake of easier comparison in all the subsequent experiments , the numbers are reduced to the above standard , or to the supposition , that the original weights of the eggs employed were , when just laid , exactly ooo grains .
When an egg is boiled in water , it loses weight , particularly if it be removed from the water when boiling , and be permitted to cool in the open air ; * the water also on examination will be found to contain a portion of the saline contents of the egg .
The loss of weight from boiling is by no means constant , but has been found to vary from 20 to 30 grains , on the supposition , that the original weights of the eggs employed were iooo grains .
On the same supposition , also , it has been found , that the quantity of saline matter obtained by evaporating to dryness the distilled water in which an egg has been boiled , amounts , at an average , to about.3$ grain .
This saline residuum is strongly alkaline , and yields traces of animal matter , sulphuric acid , phosphoric acid , chlorine , an alkali , lime and magnesia , and carbonates of lime and magnesia ; in short , of almost every principle existing in the egg .
The carbonate of lime , however , is generally most abundant , and is obtained by evaporation in the form of a fine powder .
The shells of eggs have been analyzed by VAUQUELIN* and MERAT GUILLOT ; f but these chemists seem to have over-rated the quantity of animal matter , and of phosphate of lime contained in them .
When shells which had been dried in vacuo at 212o , were dissolved in dilute muriatic acid , the quantity of animal matter obtained was only about g per cent. while the quantity of phosphates of lime and of magnesia never amounted to quite i per cent. ; the rest was carbonate of lime mixed with a little carbonate of magnesia .
When burnt , eggshells , as VAUQUELiN has observed , yield traces of sulphur And iron .
The membrana putaminis , on the supposition that the origi* Annals de Chimie , tom .
29 et 8I .
t Ibid. tom .
34 .
It is probable that the different results obtained by these chemists depended , in a great degree , on the different mode in which the experiments were made .
The phosphate of lime present in egg-shells is apparently connected with the animal matter , and when the latter is destroyed by combustion , the whole quantity present will of course be obtained .
The quantity of animal matter present also , being in this mode of analysis necessarily estimated from the loss of weight occurring during the process , must appear greater than it ought to do , because part of this loss will obviously depend on the escape of water .
nal weight of the egg be.ooo grains , weighs , when dried in vacuo at 219 ?
, about 2.35 grains ; and on being burnt , yields traces of phosphate of lime .
It may be observed here , that the great differences in the quantities of the earthy matter existing in the shells of different eggs , have rendered the average totally inapplicable in these experiments , as will be shown hereafter ; hence , a more detailed analysis of this part of the egg was deemed unnecessary .
Saline contents of the recent egg .
As my attention at present is chiefly confined to the fixed principles of the egg , I shall not here enter on a description of its immediate principles , which will be found sufficiently detailed in all the modern chemical treatises .
The saline principles , however , particularly of the yelk , have been less minutely examined ; hence , it becomes necessary to relate the manner in which the following analyses were conducted ; and here it may be premised generally , that all the results were obtained by combustion ; and that the following observations are to be understood as applicable to the whole of the experiments subsequently related in this inquiry .
The albumen burns with difficulty , unless care be taken to remove the saline matter by frequent washings ; but if this point be attended to , the whole of the carbonaceous matter may be burnt off even in a covered crucible .
In the subsequent experiments , the saline and earthy matters were removed from the crucible after combustion by distilled water ; a little amnonia was then added , and the whole permitted to remain at rest for twenty-four hours ; the clear solution containing the alkaline salts was now carefully poured off , and the insoluble residuum , consisting of the phosphate of lime and triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia , after being washed with dis ' tilled water , was dried and weighed .
The alkaline solution , together with the washings of the earthy phosphates , were then evaporated to dryness , and exposed to a low red heat ; and the weight of the saline residuum being accurately noticed , the whole was again dissolved in distilled water .
A few drops of nitric acid being now added to neutralize the excess of alkali present , nitrate of barytes was dropped into the solution as long as any precipitate fell .
The precipitate was obtained by decanting off the solution as before , and , after being well washed , its weight ascertained : from this the quantity of sulphuric acid present was determined by calculation .
, * To the solution , thus freed from sulphuric acid , nitrate of barytes , and afterwards ammonia , were added .
The phosphate of barytes thus obtained was collected , washed and weighed as before , and the quantity of phosphoric acid present obtained by calculation.t Nitric acid was again added in slight excess to the original solution , and nitrate of silver dropped into it as long as any precipitate fell from the chloride of silver obtained , the quantity , of chlorine present was estimated.t Lastly , the weights of the sulphuric and phosphoric acids and chlorine were added together , and their amount subtracted from the weight of the alkaline residuum formerly obtained by evaporation , the remainder , of course , indicated the quan* On the supposition that the weight of the atom of sulphuric acid is 50 , and that of barytes 97.5 , oxygen being io .
f On the supposition that the weight of the atom of phphohoric acid is 35 , that of oxygen being io .
$ On the supposition that the weight of the atom of chloriae is 45 , and of silver 137.5 , that of oxygen being 1o .
tity of potash and soda , * and carbonates of potash and soda present .
Finally , the proportion of the earthy phosphates to one another was determined , and the quantities of the bases and acid obtained by calculation .
The yelk of the egg is exceedingly difficult of combustion ; and indeed without proper precautions cannot be burnt at all , on account of the large quantity of phosphorus it contains ; which , by undergoing a partial combustion , forms a glassy coating that effectually excludes the contact of the air from the coal , and prevents its farther combustion .
After a variety of attempts , the following were the two methods employed .
The yelk of an egg which had been boiled hard , and dried by exposure to the air , was rubbed in a mortar with a quantity of bicarbonate of potash .
The mixture was then introduced into a platina crucible and exposed to a strong red heat , till the flame had ceased to escape from a small hole in the lid .
The crucible being now removed from the fire , its contents , when cold , were again pulverised in a miortar with nitre .
This mixture was then introduced a little atea time into the covered crucible till the whole was burnt .
To the residuum distilled water was added , which of course took up every thing but the earthy phosphates , which were separated and weighed , while the alkaline solution , like that before mentioned obtained from the albumen , was submitted to the action of the appropriate re-agents , and thus the quantities of the different acids present ascertained .
In this manner every thing was determined , except the proportion of alkaline matter present ; and to ascertain this , other experi* The quantity of soda equivalent to the sodium in union with the chlorine , was determined by calculation .
ments with different yelks were made , in which lime and nitrate of lime were substituted for the bicarbonate and nitrate of potash .
With respect to the modes in which the different fixed principles originally exist in the egg , it is very probable , as BERZELIUS has remarked , that the sulphuric acid obtained from albumen is a product of combustion , and exists in it naturally as sulphur .
The same also appears to be the case , to a great extent at least , with respect to the phosphoric acid , especially that obtained from the yelk .
The chlorine seems to exist originally in union with sodium , forming common salt .
As to the earthy principles , BERZELIUS is of opinion that their metallic bases are probably to be considered as constituent principles of the primary animal compounds .
These circum* stances have induced me to state the quantities of the acids obtained separately from the bases .
It may be also remarked here , that as the following experiments were made almost entirely with the view of comparison only , my object was rather to conduct them in some general and uniform manner , than to enter into any very minute discriminations , which did not appear to be immediately necessary to my purpose .
For this reason , the proportion of the potash to the soda , and the exact quantity of carbonic acid combined with them , were not attempted to be determined .
With the same view also , the proportion of the lime to the magnesia , though ascertained , was not expressed , but the united weigIhts of both introduced into the column .
Lastly , every one acquainted with chemistry will perceive , that from the mode of operating , the weights of the different principles will be somewhat underrated , The relative proportions of the saline principles of different eggs vary in some instances considerably.* The three following are selected from a variety of other analyses as examples : the weight of each egg being reduced for the sake of comparison to looo grains .
No. i.f Albumen Yelk Total Albumen Yelk 7 ; Potash , Lime , Mag-| ulphu ri , 2Phosph Soda , and nesia , and S cd u rc AiosoChlorine .
Carb. of Carb. of Acid .
ric Acid .
: .
: '3 Ditto .
Ditto .
} Grains .
Grains .
Grains , Grains .
Grains ... 29.45:.94 ; 2.92.30 .
1.29 S3.56 39.5 68.50 4-01 1,33 342.98 No. 2 .
6 3.546.983 7.9.25 *o6 3.50 ^8 27 *.61 Total.21 3.96 1.21 i3.20.86 Albumen Yelk Total No. 3 .
Ii Potash , Lime , Mag ' ISulphurc Phospho h ' , Soda , andn nesia , and S ' hd i Acid .
Csho Chlorine. .
Carb. of Carb. of ' ?
iI Ditto .
' Ditto .
Grains .
Grains . !
Grains . !
Grains .
: Grains .
j.18 *.48.87 2.72 ; .32.19 4.00.44.51.67.37 448 1.31 3..23.99 Although the consideration of the immediate principles of the egg does not fall within my present design , yet I cannot refrain from giving the following analysis of the yelk of the recent egg .
The egg from which the yelk had been taken , which is the subject of the following experiment , had been boiled hard in distilled water , and the yelk , in its moist state , was found to weigh 316.5 grains .
It was then partially dried by exposure to the air for several weeks ; and to remove the remainder of the water was reduced to powder , and exposed to a temperature of somewhat more than 212 ? .
The total loss of weight was 17o.2 grains , which was supposed to indicate the quantity of water present .
The remainder was now digested repeatedly in alcohol of specific gravity.807 , till that fluid came off colourless .
The residuum was perfectly white and pulverulent , and possessed many of the properties of albumen ; but it differed from that principle , by the large proportion of phosphorus it contained in some unknown state of combination .
The alcoholic solution was of a deep yellow colour , and deposited crystals of a sebaceous matter , and a portiola of a yellow semi-fluid oil .
On distilling off the alcohol , the,387 oil was obtained in a separate state .
On cooling , it became nearly solid , and weighed 91 grains .
The albuminous principle above mentioned , weighed 55.3 grains .
Hence this yelk consisted of Grains .
Water. .
170.2 '*Albumen ? .
55.3 Yellow Oil .
91.0 316.5 But I have reason to believe that the proportions of these ingredients differ a little in different eggs .
Experiments on the egg at the end of the first w , eek of incubation , or about the 8th day .
At the end of the first week , it has been found , on an average , that on the supposition that the egg originally weighed 100ooo grains , it has now lost about 50 grains , and the weights of the constituent principles of two eggs in their moist state , were as follow : No. i. No. 2 .
Grains .
Grains .
Unchanged albumen. .
23.8 247 .
Modified albumen ... .
Liq .
amnii , membranes , blood-vessels , &amp;c. 7.o 275.2 A 97.0 275 ?
2 Animal ... . .
22.0 J Yelk e ... . .
324.5 Shell and loss ... . .
167.1 153.2 1000.0 1000.0 , ?
This proportion of the albuminous principle does not differ much from that stated to exist in the yelk of the common fowl , by Mr. HATCHETT .
Philos. Trans. vol. cvi .
p. 308 .
The consideration of the organization , &amp;c. of the incubated egg , like that of its constituent principles , does not fall within my present design ; yet , as some points connected with these subjects seem to be illustrated by the present inquiry , and as my experiments would be scarcely intelligible without them , I shall make a few brief remarks on the general phenomena presented by the different constituent principles of the egg at those periods at which it has been submitted to examination .
It has been remarked by many observers , that soon after the process of incubation has commenced , the yelk becomes more fluid than usual , and that as the liquor amnii increases , that portion of the albumen occupying the upper and larger end of the egg , begins to assume a peculiar appearance .
In the present experiments ( in which the egg was always previously boiled ) , the liquor amnii and portion of albumen in question , at the period now under consideration , exhibited somewhat the appearance of curds and whey .
Nor did The analogy consist in mere appearance ; for the curdy looking matter , which was of a yellow colour , and which I have termed modified albumen , resembled the curdy part of milk in its properties , so far as to contain intermixed with it an oily or butyraceous principle .
A portion of this oily principle , on being separated and examined , was found to be soluble in alcohol , of a bright yellow colour : and in short , to possess all the properties of the yellow oil existing in the yelk .
The yelk at this period ; as before observed , has become more fluid , and appears larger and of a paler colour than natural , HALLER , indeed , asserts , that it has not increased in weight , but the above table renders the reverse very probable .
These appearances of the albumen and velk have induced most observers to believe that an interchange of principles takes place between them , while others seem to have mistaken the yellow modified albumen for the yelk itself .
That an interchange of principles has taken place , at least under the above circumstances , there can be no doubt ; yet the two are not indiscriminately mixed ; for when the egg has been previously boiled , the yelk , though softer than natural , is nevertheless rendered of a firmer consistence than the modified albumen , and can thus be readily separated from it ; there is , moreover , a distinct line of demarcation between them , arising , apparently , from the proper membrane of the yelk .
Another argument in favour of the opinion of the intermixture of the albumen and yelk at this period , is derived from the following analyses of these constituent principles of the egg ; from which it will be found , that the quantity of the saline matter is diminished in the albumen , and increased in the yelk .
It is a singular and striking fact , however , that although the oily matter of the yelk has made its way to the albumen , very , little of the phosphorus , which exists in such large quantities in the yelk , has been removed with it .
No. 1 .
Unchanged albumen Modified albumen , li } quor amnii , animal , membranes , &amp;c. .J Yelk ... Potash , Lime , MagSulphuric PhosphoChorin oda , and nesia , and Acid .
ric Acid .
hlore .
Carb. of Carb. of Ditto .
Ditto .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains . ?
13.27.19 1.o03.18.o8.38.45 1.17,.12.09 4.03.6o .
80.68.30 ; 4,68 1.24 3.00.98 No , '2 , Unchanged Albumen Modffied albulmen , li-V quor amnii , animal , membranes , &amp;c. Yelk. .
Potash , Lime , MagSulphuric PhosphoChlorin Soa .
afd nesia , and Acid .
__ Acd , If5 ' , _ Carb. of Carb. of | , j ]\ ~Ditto .
Ditto .
Grains .
CGrains .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains..188.18.24 1.50 !
.12..5.30.70.1.08 4.003.56.75.67 | e36 Z 4.443 1o10 | 2.95 -91 The following are the results of an analysis later , or on the loth day of incubation .
made two days f Potash , Lime , MagSulphuric : PhosphoChlorine .
Soda and esa and Acid .
inc Acid .
Carb. of Ca r. o Ditto .
Ditto .
Unchanged Albumen Modified albumen , liquor amnii , animal , membranes , &amp;c. Yelk. .
I Grains..27.o8.05 Grains..14.65 3.35 Grains..24.68.*S Grains .
1.13 1.36.62 Grains .
*.12.27.66 At this period the proportion of phosphorus is somewhat diminished in the yelk , and increased in the animal and its appendages .
The chlorine and alkaline principles seem also to have diminished in the yelk , and to have increased a little in the albuminous portion .
-40 4^l14 1*2.3 11 ... .~~~ 39i How the above interchange of principles takes place between the albumen and yelk , does not appear to be distinctly understood .
MAITRE JEAN , LEVEILLE , and others , suppose that it takes place through the chalazae ; and LEVEILLE has even pretended to demonstrate the tubular structure of one of the chalazae .
This tubular structure has been denied by some writers , and particularly by Dr. MACARTNEY , * who even appears to doubt the fact of the intermixture in question .
After what has been said , however , there cannot , I think , be much doubt of the circumstance ; and future inquirers on this interesting , but difficult subject , will do well to turn their attention to it , Experiments on the egg at the end of the second week , or about the 15th day of incubation .
At the end of the second week of incubation , an egg has lost upon an average about 15o grains , on the supposition that its original weight was 100ooo grains , and the weights of the constituent principles of two eggs were as follow : Unchanged Albumen Liquor amnii , membranes , &amp;c. Animal ... .
Yelk. .
, Shell and Loss .
Grains .
Grains .
175-5 2o8.o 73.5 218 .
70.0o 89.1 ; 250.7 e48.0o 23.g3 236.7 1 1000.0 000.0 At this period the animal has attained a considerable size , while the albumen has become diminished in a corresponding degree .
The albumen has also acquired a very firm consistence , especially when coagulated by heat .
The liquor amnii has become more fluid , and the modified albumen , formerly mentioned , has very much diminished in quantity , or disappeared.* The yelk , which at the end of the first week seemed to have increased in bulk and fluifdity , has now apparently acquired its original size and consistence .
The following are the results of the analyses of the constituent principles of the above two eggs .
No. 1 , ' .
4I5 Potash , 'Lime , Mag- .
, Sulphuric PhosphoChln ?
Soda , and nesia , and Acid .
ric Acid .
, rutCarb .
of Carb. of , ' , Ditto .
Ditto .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
Unchanged albumen..07.22.09.73.10 |Liq .
amnii , membranes , &amp;c. .o6.21 .
71.96.o8 'Animal ?
.6 o.23.o9.46.27:Yelk *3 ? ?
3.34.16.68.69 -49 4.00 1.C5 2.83 1.14 No. 2 .
Unchanged albumen ... 11.1 23.97.09:Liq .
amnii , membranes , &amp;c. .03.20.70 1.07.o8 Animal..o6.24.07.44.28 , Yelk _.20 3.30.10.42 '.70 - ... ... ... . .
-40 | 3.93 1 g10.9 19.15 An egg , analyzed two days later , or on the i7th day of incubation , gave the following results : No. 3 .
I , 'r 'Potash , Lime , MagSulphuric PhosphoChlorine .
Soda , and nesia , and Acid .
ric Acid .
Carb. of Carb. of Ditto .
Ditto .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
G ains .
Grains..Liquor amnii , membranes , animal,.34 1.70.68 2.40 1 .
1 &amp;c. J 'Yelk.10 2.50.0.56.75.44 4.20.98 2,96 i.85 At this period ossification , which , according to HALtER and others , begins about the 7th day , has made some progress .
The yelk has parted with some of its phosphorus , which appears in the other principles of the egg ; this is particularly observable in No. 3 .
The quantity of earthy matter has also increased , particularly in No. 3 .
Experiments on the egg at the end of the third week , or at the full period of incubation .
At this period an egg has lost upon an average about 16o grains , on the supposition that its original weight was 100ooo grains ; and the weights of the constituent principles of two eggs in their moist state and without boiling , were as follow : Grains .
Grains .
Residuum of albumen , membranes , &amp;c. 295 38.1 'Animal 5.1 553.6 Yelk i167.7 151.3 , Shell and loss _ 247.7 257.o 1000.0 1000o .
At this period all the important changes of incubation are completed .
The albumen has now disappeared , or is reduced to a few dried membranes and an earthy residuum ( apparently consisting of the original earthy matter of the albumen which has remained unappropriated ) .
The yelk is considerably reduced in size* , and is taken into the abdomen of the chick , while the animal has attained a weight nearly corresponding to the original weight of the albumen , added to that lost by the yelk , minus the total weight sustained by the egg during incubation .
The alkaline matters and chllo rine , which have been decreasing from the commencement of incubation , have now undergone farther diminution in quantity , t while the earthy matters have increased in the most striking manner .
The other principles seem to have suffered very little change in quantity .
The following are the results of the analyses of the above two eggs .
No. 1 .
Potash , Lime , MagSulphuric Phospho : Soda , and nesia , and Acid .
ric Acid .
Chlorine .
C arb .
of !
, Ditto .
Ditto .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
Resid .
of albumen , } membranes , &amp;c. - ?
4.1 *09.23 *12 Animal.44 3.02.55 2.26 2.58 Yelk 4.o6.03.o6 1.26.52 4.20.67 2.55 3 96 No. 2 .
Potash , Lime , MagSulphuric PhosphoChlorine Soda , and nesia , and Acid .
ric Acid . !
Carb. of Carb. of Ditto .
Ditto .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
' Grains .
Resid .
of albumen , ; membranes , &amp;c. } * ?
3 *3 * ?
9 ^25 .
, Animal.21 2.71.68 2.12 2.60 Yelk.02 ' 1.23 i.o6 '.o03.1o *.s.6 4-07 s 83 2-40,3.8 It may be proper to observe , that the above analyses are selected as the most perfect , from a variety of others made at each period , all of which confirm the results here given , though they differ , like those indeed given , in some subordinate particulars.* These experiments , then , demonstrate , or render probable , the following circumstances .
1 .
That the relative weights of the constituent principles of different eggs vary very considerably .
2 .
That an egg loses about one-sixth of its weight during incubation , a quantity amounting to eight times as much as it loses in the same time under ordinary circumstances .
namely , the chlorine and alkaline matters .
With respect to the use of these saline matters we know very little .
Do they perform an office in the animal economy analogous to acid solutions in the galvanic battery ?
3 .
That in the earlier stages of incubation , an interchange of principles takes place between the yelk and a portion of the albumen ; that this interchange is confined on the part of the yelk to a little of its oily matter , which is found mixed with the above mentioned albumen ; that this portion of albumen undergoes some remarkable changes , and is converted into a substance analogous in its appearance , as well as in some of its properties , to the curd of milk ; and lastly , that a portion of the watery and saline portion of the albumen is found mixed with the yelk , which becomes thus apparently increased in size .
4 .
That as incubation proceeds , the saline and watery parts again quit the yelk , which is thus reduced to its original bulk that in the last week of the process it undergoes still further diminution in weight , and loses the greater portion of its phosphorus , which is found in the animal converted into phosphoric acid , and in union with lime , constituting its bony skeleton ; and lastly , that this lime does not originally exist in the recent egg , but is derived from some unknown source during the process of incubation .
These , and other interesting circumstances , arising out of the present inquiry , suggest some important hints respecting certain operations of the animal economy .
They also serve to direct the attention of the microscopic inquirer to the investigation of points , which it is probably within his power to elucidate , but of which , at present , we are ignorant .
This part of the subject , however , cannot be in abler hands than it is at present .
To the distinguished pliysiologists , therefore , who have been recently engaged in the investigation , I willingly leave it , and shall conclude with a few remarks only on the uses of the yelk , and the apparent generation of earthy matter .
Sir EVERARD HOME and Mr. HATCHETT have concluded , from their experiments , that the yelk is analogous to the milk of viviparous aimals , but more concentrated , and that its chief use is to afford a pabulum to the young animal during incubation.* This opinion , which is indeed as old as ARISTOTLE , t is corroborated in a striking manner by the present inquiry .
Mr. HATCHETT has also made the important and curious remark , that in the ova of those tribes of animals , the embryos of which have bones , there is a portion of oily matter ; and in those ova whose embryos consist entirely of soft parts , there is none .
Hence it is concluded , that a certain portion of oil is necessary for the formation of bone .
The present inquiry cannot be said to confirm , or invalidate , this remark , for although in the earlier stages of incubation , before ossification has commenced , a portion of the oil of the yelk is appropriated to the purposes of the economy of the animal , yet by far the greater portion of it remains ; and some of it is even retained by the yelk till its final disappearance.$ One great use of the yelk evidently is to fur .
nish the phosphorus , entering as phosphoric acid , into the skeleton of the animal ; but that the earthy portion of the bones is derived from the transmutation of oil into lime cannot , perhaps , be safely asserted in the present state of the inquiry .
With respect to the earthy matter found in the skeleton of the chick when it quits the shell , I[think I can venture to assert , after the most patient and attentive investigation , that it does not pre-exist in the recent egg ; certainly not , at least in any known state .
The only possible sources , therefore , whence it can be derived , are from the shell , or transmutation from other principles .
Whether it be actually derived from the shell , cannot be determined by chemistry ; because , as we have seen , the shells of different eggs differ so much , that the application of averages is out of the question ; and we are of course precluded from ascertaining the exact quantity of lime any particular shell originally contains .
There are , however , very strong reasons for believing that the earthy matter is not derived from the shell .
In the first place , the membrana putaminis never becomes vascular , and seems analogous to the epidermis ; hence the lime of the shell , which is exterior to this membrane , is generally considered by physiologists as extra-vascular ; * it is therefore extremely difficult behind in the yelk .
In the present instance , however , the quantity of earthy matter was very minute : it had therefore disappeared , as well is the other principles of the yelk .
When the chick is younger , the quantity of earthy matter is said to be much larger .
HALLER asserts that the yelk disappears about the i6th day ; and ARISTOTLE long ago remarked , that very little of it was left on the 10th day , after the chick had left the egg .
to conceive how the earth in question can be introduced into the economy of the chick from this source , particularly during the last week of incubation , when a very large portion of the membranes are actually separated from the shell .
Secondly , both the albumen and yelk contain , at the end of incubation , a considerable proportion of earthy matter ( the yelk apparently more than it did originally ) ; why is this not appropriated , in preference to that existing in the shell ?
In opposition to these arguments it will be doubtless stated , that the shell of the egg becomes brittle at the end of incubation , and appears to undergo , during that process , some other changes not at present understood .
To which it may be answered , that this brittleness has been attributed to the separation of the iembrana putaminis , and the exsiccation of the parts by so long an exposure to the heat necessary to the process of incubation ; and in this manner all the known changes produced on the shell by incubation may perhaps be satisfactorily accounted for .
Until , therefore , it be demonstrated that some other changes take place in the shell , I confess this argument does not seem to me to have much weight .
I by no means wish however to be understood to assert , that the earth is not derived from the shell ; because , in this case , the only alternative left me is to assert that it is formed by transmutation from other matter ; an assertion , which I confess myself not bold enough to make in the present state of our knowledge , however strongly I may be inclined to believe that , within certain limits , this power is to be ranked among the capabilities of the vital energies .

