On Work done on board H.M.S. ' Challenger .
' VI .
11 Preliminary Report to Professor Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff , on Work ( Chemical and Geological ) done on hoard H.M.S. ' Challenger/ By J. Y. Buchanan , Chemist and Physicist to the Expedition .
Communicated by Professor Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 7 , 1876 .
Read March 16 .
The following Preliminary Report on my work on board the * Challenger ' during the last three years has been drawn up in compliance with a request on the part of Professor Wyville Thomson , which w'as communicated to me on the 23rd June , 1875 .
As my time at sea is fully occupied with the daily laboratory work , I was obliged to postpone preparation of the report until our arrival at Valparaiso , where the whole of my time was devoted to it .
Three weeks , however , is too short a time to prepare even a preliminary report with satisfaction , and there are doubtless many things in the present one for which I must crave indulgence .
In venturing to publish the few geological notes which I have embodied , I feel that a special apology is required , as my knowledge of rocks is , at best , but superficial .
I was emboldened to do so , however , by considering that the islands to which the notes refer are principally such as are but seldom visited by any one , and that , as it was my good fortune to be able to visit them , it was right that I should make what observations I could and record them , in case amongst them there might be some which would be of value to the geologist .
Observations on the Specific Gravity of Sea-water .
As the value of these results depends to a great extent on the nature of the means taken to collect the water , and on the delicacy of the instrument used for determining its specific gravity , I shall shortly describe them both .
The samples of water are collected either in an ordinary canvas bucket , or in one of two kinds of metal " water- bottle , " according as it is to be taken from the surface or from depths below it .
The use of the ordinary hand-bucket needs no explanation .
When water is to be obtained from the bottom , the " slip " water-bottle is used .
This instrument is a Swedish invention , improved by Dr. Meyer , of Kiel , who without doubt has described it , and by Messrs. Milne , of Edinburgh , who furnished those on board the ' Challenger .
' || .
Water from intermediate depths is obtained in a much lighter instrument , which , with a drawing and the method of using it , is fully described in a paper presented to the Royal Society in the early part of 1875 , of which an abstract has been published in the 'Proceedings , ' Ko .
160 .
It consists of a metal cylinder furnished with stopcocks at both ends .
The levers by which these stopcocks are turned are con- 594 Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on Chemical Work nected by a straight rod , so that they are simultaneously either open or shut , or at least at the same phase of being open or shut .
When water is to be collected by its means , the stopcocks are opened and the instrument sunk to the required depth , having been previously securely fastened to a sounding-line .
The operation of sinking must be carried on without a check , owing to the peculiarity of the closing-apparatus .
When the required depth has been reached , the line is checked , hauled in a few fathoms , let go again , and finally brought to the surface by means of a donkey-engine .
The rod connecting the stopcocks is furnished with a metal plate , which , during the descent , is retained in a vertical position by the passage of the water on both sides of it .
When , however , the direction of motion is reversed , the plate falls down into a horizontal position , when , by its passage through the water , it exercises such a downward pressure on the rod that the stopcocks are closed .
Arrived at the surface , it contains the water which it had enclosed at the depth in question .
A small safety-valve allows of the escape of the surplus water , which , owing to the greater density of the water below the surface , it has enclosed in excess of what it can hold at atmospheric temperature and pressure .
The apertures of the stopcocks being necessarily smaller than the diameter of the cylinder , the efficiency of the instrument in really changing the water as it descends was tested before leaving England in a freshwater lake , the water with which it was filled at the surface containing some yellow prussiate of potash .
It was found that the water fetched , under these circumstances , from depths over 1| fathom was unacted upon by solution of perchloride of iron .
The rate , therefore , of change of water is satisfactory , as we can be certain of obtaining an average sample of the last two fathoms passed through by the instrument .
Representing the specific gravity of distilled water at 4 ' C. by 100,000 , I found that of ocean water at 15'*56 C. to vary between the extremes of 102780 and 102400 ; so that , to be of any value at all , the possible error in the results must not exceed 10 .
The hydrometer used for these observations is fully described in the paper above referred to .
Its description is briefly as follows :\#151 ; The stem , which carries a millimetre-scale 10 centimetres long , has an outside diameter of about 3 millimetres , the external volume of the divided portion being 0- 8607 cubic centimetre ; the mean volume of the body is 160*15 cubic centimetres , and the weight of the glass instrument is 160*0405 grammes .
With this volume and weight it floats in distilled water of 16 ' C. , at about the lowest division ( 100 ) of the scale .
In order to make it serviceable for heavier waters , a small brass table is made to rest on the top of the stem , of such a weight that it depresses the instrument in distilled water of 16 ' C. to about the topmost division ( 0 ) of the scale .
By means of a series of six weights , multiples by 1 , 2 , 35 4 , 5 , and 6 of the weight of the table , specific gravities between done on board H.M.S. ' * TOOOOO and 1*03400 can be observed .
It is not necessary that these weights should be accurate multiples o\#163 ; the weight of the table ; it is sufficient if they approach it within a centigramme , and their actual weight be known with accuracy .
The weights of the table and weights in actual use are :\#151 ; Weight of table ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0*8360 gramme .
Weight of weight No. 1 ... ... ... ... .
0*8560 , , " " II ... ... ... ... .
16010 " " " III ... ... ... ... 2*4225 grammes , " \#187 ; , IV ... ... ... ... .
31245 " " " V ... ... ... ... 4*0710 " " " VI ... ... ... ... 4*8245 " .Tor oceanic waters the hydrometer is always used with the table and either No. IY .
or No. Y. weight .
- .
When the mechanical part of the construction of the instrument was finished , with the exception of the closing of the top of the stem ( which instead was widened into a funnel-shape large enough to receive the ordinary decigramme weights ) , the calibration of the stem was effected by loading the stem with successive weights , and observing the consequent depressions in distilled water of known temperature .
This done , the top was sealed up and the instrument carefully weighed .
The expansion of the body with temperature was determined in a similar manner by reading the instrument in distilled water of various temperatures .
The coefficient of expansion of the glass was then found to be 0*000029 per degree Centigrade .
Tor using this instrument at sea about 900 cub. centimetres of sea-water are taken , and the containing cylinder placed on a swinging table in a position as near the centre of the ship as possible .
The observation with the hydrometer , loaded with the necessary table and weight , is then effected in the ordinary way , the accuracy of the readings being but little affected by rolling ; pitching , however , is found to have a distinctly disturbing effect ; and when it is in any way violent , it is advisable to store the specimen of water till the weather improves .
' The temperature of the water at the time of observation is determined by one of Geissler 's " normal " or standard thermometers , graduated into tenths of a degree Centigrade ; and it is essential for the accuracy of the results that the water , during the observation of the hydrometer , should be sensibly at the same temperature as the atmosphere , otherwise the changing temperature of the water makes the readings of both the hydrometer and the thermometer uncertain .
At low temperatures ( below 10 ' or 12 ' C. ) a tenth of a degree makes no sensible difference in the resulting specific gravity ; but at the high temperatures always found at the surface of tropical seas , rising sometimes to 30 ' C. , the same difference of temperature may make a difference of 3 to 4 in the resulting specific gravity .
Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on Chemical Work Having obtained the specific gravity of the water in question at a temperature which depends upon that of the air at the time , it is necessary , in order that the results may be comparable , to reduce them to their values at one common temperature .
Bor this purpose a knowledge of the law of expansion of sea-water with temperature is necessary .
This had been determined with sufficient accuracy for low temperatures by Despretz and others ; but as the temperatures at which specific-gravity observations are usually made are comparatively high , their results were of but little use , directed as they were chiefly to the determination of the freezing and maximum-density points .
When the late Captain Maury was developing his theory of oceanic circulation , owing to difference of density of the water in its different parts , he found the want of information on this important subject .
At his request the late Professor Hubbard , of the National Observatory , TJ .
S. , instituted a series of experiments , from which he was enabled to lay down a curve of the volumes of sea-water at all temperatures from considerably below the freezing-point to much above what obtains even in the hottest seas .
The results are published in Maury 's ' Sailing Directions , ' 1858 , vol. i. p. 287 , and have evidently been carried out with great care .
The composition of different oceanic waters varies , even in extreme cases , within such close limits , that the law of thermal expansion is sensibly the same for all of them ; of this Hubbard 's experiments afford satisfactory proof .
In the Table which gives the results of all his experiments he takes the volume of water at 60 ' F. as his unit .
In order to avoid much useless calculation , I have been in the habit of reducing my results to the same temperature ( 15'*56 C. ) , while , for a like reason , I have retained the specific gravity of distilled water at 4 ' C. as the unit .
The choice of a common temperature to which the results should be reduced , and of a unit of specific gravities , is a purely conventional matter ; and in choosing the above-mentioned ones , in the first instance , I was moved solely by a desire to save calculation .
For every water , however , there is one temperature to which it would be natural to reduce its specific gravity , namely , the temperature which the water had when in its place in the ocean ; and in this sense all my results during the cruise have been reduced .
Hubbard 's Table of the change of volume of a mass of sea-water with change of temperature enables us very easily to reduce any observed specific gravity from the temperature of observation to any other temperature , say 15'*56 0 .
In the paper it is transcribed from the ' Sailing Directions .
' In the ' following Table the volumes for every Centigrade degree from \#151 ; 1 ' C. to + 30 ' C. are given:\#151 ; done on board H.M.S , .
Temp. '0 .
Volume .
Temp. ' O. Volume .
Temp. '0 .
Volume .
Temp. ' O. Volume .
-1 0*99792 +7 0-99853 +15 0-99987 +23 100194 0 795 8 866 16 ' 100010 24 224 +1 799 9 878 17 034 25 256 2 804 10 893 18 059 26 288 3 812 11 910 19 086 27 320 4 820 12 927 20 111 28 352 5 830 13 947 21 137 29 385 6 840 14 ,967 22 164 30 420 By means of the results given in this Table a chart of isothermals was ' constructed , giving by inspection , as soon as the specific gravity at any one temperature is known , its reduced values at any other .
In this way the specific gravity of every water has been reduced to its value at 15'*56 C. and at the temperature which it possessed when in its place in the sea .
* The results obtained since leaving Teneriffe on 15th February , 1873 , are given in a series of Tables , in which those relating to surface-water are collected together and grouped in sections , as Teneriffe to St. Thomas 's , St. Thomas 's via Halifax to Bermuda , and so on .
Those relating to bottom-water are collected in larger groups\#151 ; the first containing all those observed in the Atlantic , the second those in the Southern , the third thbse on the western side of the Pacific Ocean , and the fourth those observed between Japan and Valparaiso .
Where series of observations on waters from intermediate depths have been obtained , each series is given by itself .
By far the greater number of the observations relate to surface-water , the specific gravity of which was , as a rule , taken once a day when at sea , the temperature of the water being at the same time observed with the standard thermometer above mentioned .
With a single exception , off the coast of Brazil , the densest water which we have met with in the ocean was found on the section from Teneriffe to St. Thomas 's in the heart of the north-east trade-wind territory , where , from the strength and dryness of the wind , the amount of evaporation must be very large .
Bound about the Canary Islands the mean specific gravity was found to be 1*02730 ; to the westward it rises steadily until in longitude 28 ' W. it has reached 1*02762 .
Between longitude 28 ' W. and 54 ' W. the mean specific gravity is 1*02773 , the maximum being 1*02781 .
On approaching the West Indies it rapidly falls off to an average of 1*02719 in the neighbourhood of St. Thomas s ; and if we take into account all the observations made on the western side of the Atlantic , from St. Thomas 's northward to the edge of the cold Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on Chemical Work water which separates the Gulf-stream from the coast of America , we obtain the same average , 1*02719 .
Between Bermuda and the Azores an almost perfectly uniform specific gravity was observed , the mean being 1*02713 , and the extremes 1*02694 and 1*02727 .
As Madeira is approached the specific gravity rises until it reaches 1*02746 close to the island itself .
The mean specific gravity on the eastern side of the North Atlantic , between the latitude of St. Thomas 's and that of the Azores , is 1*02727 , or slightly higher than that of the water on the western side .
After leaving the Cape-Verd Islands , the ship 's course lay almost parallel to the African coast , and at an average distance of about 200 miles from it .
Proceeding thus in a south-easterly direction , the specific gravity fell rapidly from 1*02692 off St. Iago on the 10th August , to 1*02632 on the 12th , after which it retained the low mean specific gravity of 1*02627 until the 21st August , when the course was changed to a westerly one along the equator .
The specific gravity of the water on this day was the lowest hitherto registered for a surface-water ; it was 1*02601 , in lat. 3 ' 8 ' N. , and on the boundary line between the equatorial and Guinea currents .
The same low specific gravity was observed in following the equatorial current as far as St. Paul 's rocks , after which it quickly rose as the Brazilian coast was approached ; and the maximum of 1*02786 was obtained on the 26th September , when off the entrance to Bahia , in latitude 13 ' 4 ' S. The observations in the South Atlantic were limited to a line down the western side as far as the Abrolhos Bank , and thence across to the Cape of Good Hope .
In the region of the south-east trade-wind , therefore , we have only a few observations close to the coast ; and as we have seen in the North Atlantic , on the voyage from Teneriffe to St. Thomas 's , the specific gravity is higher in mid-ocean than either on the east or the west side , so in the South Atlantic it is possible that the same may hold good .
Prom the Abrolhos Bank to Tristan d'Acunha the specific gravity sinks steadily from 1*02785 to 1*02606 , and from Tristan to the Cape of Good Hope , along a course lying between the 35th and the 37th parallels of south latitude , the mean specific gravity was 1*02624 .
Between the same parallels of north latitude the mean specific gravity was 1*02713 .
It must be remembered that the results obtained can only be held good for the season of the year in which they were observed , and that the observations in different latitudes were made in different seasons , and , further , that all the observations north of the line as far as 20 ' N. were obtained on the eastern side , and those to the southward of it as far as 30 ' S. were obtained on the western side of the ocean ; so that it would be unwise to attempt to draw any general conclusions from such imperfect data .
Considering , however , our four parallel sections , we have at least this positive result\#151 ; that in the month of June and mean latitude 36 ' N. the surface-water in mid-ocean has a done on board H.M.S. ' mean specific gravity of 1-02713 , that in the months of February and March and mean latitude 22 ' N. the mean surface specific gravity is 1-02773 , that in the month of August and mean latitude 2 ' N. it is 1-02624 , and that in the month of October in mean latitude 36 ' S. it is 1-02621 .
On the way to and from Halifax in the month of May some observations were obtained in the cold water with which the north-eastern coast of America is surrounded , the mean specific gravity being 1-02463 .
On the 1st May in the Gulf-stream the specific gravity of the water was 1-02675 , and its temperature 23'-9 C. ; and the next day it was 1-02538 , and the temperature 13'-3 C. If the results be reduced to their values at the respective temperatures of the different waters , we have for the specific gravity of the Gulf-stream water 1-02445 , and of Labrador-current water 1*02584 ; so that the fall of temperature very much more than counterbalances the want of salt in the water .
In the same way we find the mean specific gravity of the water referred to the temperature which it has in the ocean to be\#151 ; in latitude 36 ' N. and month of June 1-02548 , in 22 ' N. and months of February and March 1-02592 , in 2 ' N. and month of August 1*02335 , and in 36 ' S. and month of October 1-02659 .
I Leaving Simon 's Bay on the 17th December , 1873 , the ship proceeded in the direction of the Marion Islands .
Immediately outside the Cape the warm water of the Agulhas current was met with , which possessed a comparatively high specific gravity , averaging on the 18th , 19tb , and 20th December 1*02657 at 15'-56 C. , and 1-02477 at the average temperature ( 21'-9 C. ) of the water .
As we advanced in a southerly direction , the specific gravity as well as the temperature sank rapidly ; and on the 26th , when off the misty and snow-capped islands of Marion and Prince Edward , the surface was 5'*3 C. and the sp. gr. 1-02518 .
After leaving these islands , and until on the way northward to Australia we had passed the 50th parallel of south latitude , the specific gravity of the surface remained remarkably uniform .
Between the Marion Islands and Kerguelen 's Land the average specific gravity was 1-02512 , between Kerguelen 's and the edge of the pack-ice it was 1-02506 , along the verge of the pack-ice it was 1*02476 , and between the pack-ice and the 50th parallel it was 1-02514 ; thence to the Australian coast it rose daily , reaching 1*02638 off Cape Otway .
Except when amongst loose ice , there was hardly any variation at all in the specific gravity all the way between Marion Island and the 50th parallel ; when amongst the ice the specific gravity was liable to sudden and considerable fluctuations , going down on the 14th February to 1*02419 , and on the 18th to 1*02418 , the ship being on both occasions surrounded by broken pack-ice .
During the same trip the specific gravity at the temperature of the water was also very uniform , the mean being 1*02690 .
| Leaving Sydney a loop-like course was made , by way of New Zealand , Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on Chemical Work Tongatabu , and the Fiji Islands , back to the Australian coast at its northernmost point , Cape York .
The mean specific gravity of the western part of the sea between Australia and New Zealand was 1*02647 , and that of the eastern part 1*02622 , while in Cook 's Strait itself it was only 1*02593 .
Between New Zealand and the Kermadees the average specific gravity was 1*02630 , and between the Kermadec Islands and Tongatabu it was 102651 ; round the Fijis it was 1*02661 ; and between the Fijis and Cape York a very uniform specific gravity was maintained , the mean being 1*02643 .
We thus see that in the western part of the Southern Pacific the specific gravity of the surface-water is very uniform , varying but little with latitude , showing a very marked difference from the Atlantic Ocean , a difference which was observed to obtain in all parts of the Pacific .
From Cape York to Hong Kong the course lay through the remarkable series of so-called enclosed seas .
The mean surface specific gravities in these seas were as follows :\#151 ; In and around Torres Straits , 1*02655 ; in the Arafura Sea , 1*02549 ; in the Banda Sea , 1*02603 ; in the Molucca Passage , 1*02517 ; in the Celebes Sea , 1*02562 ; in the Sulu Sea , 1*02496 ; in the sea enclosed by the Philippine Islands , 1*02532 ; and in the China Sea , 1*02518 .
On the way to Hong Kong we traversed the Sulu and China seas just at the time when the south-west monsoon had ceased and the north-east one began to blow .
When we returned by the same route as far as the south point of Mindanao , the north-east monsoon had already persisted for more than two months ; and the effect of the comparative dryness of this wind is very evident in the surface specific gravities .
The following average values were found :\#151 ; In the China Sea , 1*02534 ; in the Philippine Sea , 1*02532 ; and in the Sulu Sea , 1*02570 .
On the other hand , the few observations made in the northern part of the Celebes Sea showed a diminution of specific gravity , the average being 1*02496 .
Outside the south point of Mindanao a strong and steady north-easterly wind was met with , and for the next ten degrees in longitude the mean specific gravity was 1*02596 .
On nearing the coast of New Ouinea the specific gravity went down rapidly , averaging for a few days before our arrival at Humboldt Bay 1*02519 .
That a very large river must here empty itself into the sea was evident from the amount of drift-wood with which the sea was covered , and from the superficial distribution of the light water .
The specific gravity of water at 50 fathoms below the surface was almost perfectly uniform , varying from 1*02611 to 1*02636 during the whole cruise from Mindanao to Admiralty Island .
When about twenty miles off Humboldt Bay the specific gravity of the water fell as low as 1*02420 .
Between Humboldt Bay and the Admiralty Island the surface specific gravity was .
very uniform , varying from 1*02583 to 1*02600 , except in one position ( lat. 2 ' 30 ' S. , long .
144 ' 7 ' E. ) , where it fell to 1*02554 ' ; but a series of observations on waters taken from different depths at this position showed at once the done on board H.M.S. e Challenger.3 superficial nature of the variation ; the water at 10 fathoms from the surface had a specific gravity of 1*02580 .
Although there was here no drift-wood to be seen , I have little doubt that we had to do with warm water , although the nearest point of New Guinea was at least 80 miles distant ; and indeed Capt. Scoresby , who sailed along this coast much closer in shore , observed in this part large quantities of drift-wood , and inferred the existence of a large river in the neighbourhood .
: North of Admiralty Island the specific gravity is somewhat higher ; between the equator and 3 ' north latitude the mean is 1*02648 ; thence all the way north to Japan it remains very uniform , the mean being about 1*02600 .
Leaving Japan in the month of June , the course lay entirely between the parallels of 34 ' and 40 ' N. as far as the meridian of 155 ' W. The specific gravity was slightly greater on the western side of the ocean than on the eastern .
The following mean specific gravities were observed for every ten degrees of longitude:\#151 ; 140 to 150 E. ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1*02586 .
150 to 160 1*02574 .
160 to 170 1*02585 .
170 to 180 1*02508 .
180 to 170 W ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1*02569 .
170 to 160 1*02544 .
160 to 155 ... ... ... ... ... .
1*02532 .
Arrived at 155 ' W. longitude , a southerly course was pursued by way of the Sandwich Islands and Tahiti , when the following mean specific gravities were observed :\#151 ; 35 to 25 N ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1*02618 .
25 to 15 1*02593 .
15 to 5 1*02574 .
6 N.to 5 S. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1*02649 .
5 S. to 15 1*02658 .
15 to 25 ... ... ... ... ... ... 1*02699 .
25 to 35 1*02620 .
Whence it will be seen that the minimum value is reached between 15 ' and 5'N .
latitude , the lowest value actually observed having been 1*02488 in latitude 7 ' 26 ' N. The maximum to the south between 15 ' and 25 ' is very much more pronounced than that to the north of it ; in fact round about Tahiti is the only spot in the Pacific where I have observed the specific gravity reaching 1*02700 ; the actually highest observed value was 1*02728 on the 3rd October , when the ship was being swung a few miles off Papeete Harbour .
The easterly course to Valparaiso was made principally between the parallels of 35 ' and 40 ' S. latitude .
From 125 ' W. longitude to Valparaiso the mean specific gravity was 1*02534 , the maximum being 1 02552 and the minimum 1*02513 .
Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on Chemical Work A large number of observations on the specific gravity of the waters at the bottom and intermediate depths have been made .
In a preliminary report like the present it would be out of place to enter upon the discussion of so extensive a subject , even did the time at my disposal admit of my attempting it .
I therefore content myself with giving the numerical results .
It is to be hoped that in the homeward cruise through the Atlantic a more complete series of observations in this direction may be obtained , as those obtained on the way out were only sufficient to show that this ocean , and especially its northern part , differs greatly from the rest of the world-sea in density , as it does in temperature and in many other particulars .
As a general rule , in both oceans between the parallels of 40 ' N. and 40 ' S. the specific gravity ( reduced to 150,56 C. ) is greatest at or near the surface , and decreases more or less regularly until a minimum is reached , generally about 400 fathoms from the surface , when there is a slow rise , the bottom-water being rather heavier .
This general law obtains in the Pacific and in the South Atlantic ; but from the few observations obtained in the North Atlantic , there are indications of a departure from it .
Although in the case of surface-water the variations of specific gravity with latitude are very considerable , more especially in the Atlantic , the water below 200 fathoms presents great constancy , the variations being comparable with those of the temperature at the same depths .
In intertropical regions , and generally where there exist alternating wet and dry seasons , there are usually more than one maximum and minimum in the series between the surface and the bottom .
How long it takes in quiet seas for fresh water to diffuse downwards in the sea , will be seen by inspection of the results obtained on the 22nd Pebruary , 1875 , above referred to , when about 80 miles off the mouth of one of the large rivers of New Gruinea , and the sea covered with driftwood .
The specific gravity was at the surface 1*02537 ; at 10 fathoms , 1*02578 ; at 20 fathoms , 1*02584 ; , at 40 fathoms , 1*02594 ; at 50 fathoms , 1*02636 ; and at 100 fathoms , 1*02658 , where it obtained its maximum , the temperature being sensibly the same down to 50 fathoms , namely from 28 ' C. to 28'*4 C. Observations on the Carbonic Acid contained in Sea-water .
The carbonic acid when boiled out of the water is received by baryta-water of known strength ; its consequent loss of alkalinity is measured by hydrochloric acid of corresponding strength .
Plaving observed that the presence of sulphates in sea-water is one of the potent agents in the retention of the carbonic acid* , I always add 10 cub. centims. of a saturated solution of chloride of barium to the water before commencing the operation .
This facilitates greatly the liberation of the carbonic acid , and also causes the water to boil tranquilly , even to dryness , without showing any tendency towards bumping .
The * Proc. Roy .
Soc. 1874 , vol. xxii .
pp. 483-495 .
done on board H.M.S. ' 603 quantity of water used has been almost invariably 225 cub. centims. , and the property possessed by sea-water of retaining its carbonic acid with great vigour makes it possible to perform the determination of it even a couple of days after its collection .
As a proof of this , on the 10th July , 1875 , the surface-water was found when freshly drawn to contain 0*0291 gramme carbonic acid per litre .
A quantity likewise of the freshly drawn water was boiled in vacuo for an hour and fifty minutes in order to collect the oxygen and nitrogen , and then allowed to cool protected from , the air .
One portion of this water was exposed to the air in a flat dish outside the port for three hours , and in another portion the carbonic acid was at once determined .
It contained 0*274 gramme per litre , whilst the water exposed to the air contained 0*6273 gramme .
The effect , then , of boiling in vacuo was only to remove about 5 per cent , of the whole amount , whilst free exposure to the air had no effect whatever .
As the determination of the carbonic acid takes a considerable time , it is only by taking advantage of this property that I have been able to determine it in samples from depths in the same locality ; for where boiling in vacuo has so little effect , there is no danger of losing carbonic acid when the water is carefully decanted .
As in the great majority of cases , where the carbonic acid has been determined , the oxygen and nitrogen have also been collecte d , and are being preserved until our return home , when they will be analyzed : it would be useless to attempt to discuss the results of the carbonic-acid determinations at present , and before these analyses have been made , especially as there is likely to be some relation between the amounts of oxygen and of carbonic acid .
Independently , however , of the relations which may subsist between the two bodies , it may be gathered from the inspection of the accompanying Table that , taking surface-waters alone , the amount of carbonic acid present is many times greater than would be contained in the same volume of distilled water under the same circumstances .
I have again and again exposed distilled water , surcharged with carbonic acid , to the air , and after even a very few minutes the carbonic acid was completely gone ; on adding to 225 cub. centims. of it 5 cub. centims. baryta-water , the mixture remained perfectly clear ; and on titrating with hydrochloric acid there was no diminution of alkalinity .
The temperature of the water on this occasion was 18'*3 C. On that particular day , namely the 8th July , 1875 , when in the middle of the i North Pacific , there was no determination made of the carbonic acid in the surface-water ; but two days later , when the temperature of the surface-water was 18'*9 0 .
, 225 cub. centims. of it contained 0*0066 gramme carbonic l acid .
Had there been 0*002 gramme C02 in the 225 cub. centims. distilled | water , it must have been detected and determined .
Hence , under the same : circumstances , this particular sea-water , whose specific gravity was 1*02528 I ( at 15'*56 C. , water at 4 ' = 1 ) , contained at least thirty times as much 004 Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on Chemical Work carbonic acid as an equal bulk of fresh water would have done .
Further , as might have been expected from the above observations , the amount of carbonic acid contained by surface-waters of the same temperatures increases with the density , and consequently is greater in the surface-water of the Atlantic than in that of the Pacific , the two oceans being very markedly distinguished from one another by the different densities of their surface-waters .
Thus we have a mean of 0*0466 gramme COa per litre in Atlantic surface-water of temperature between 20 ' and 25 ' C. and mean density 1-02727 ; whilst in the Pacific the mean isO-0268 gramme in water of 1*02594 mean density ; and the mean amount of carbonic acid in Atlantic water of temperature above 25 ' G. and mean density 1*02659 is 0*0409 , whilst in the Pacific the corresponding water is of mean density 1*02593 , and contains 0*0332 gramme C02per litre .
As a rule , other things being equal , the amount of carbonic acid diminishes as the temperature increases ; thus the mean amount of carbonic acid in waters whose temperature was between 15 ' and 20 ' was found to be 0*0446 gramme per litre , the mean density being 1*02642 , whilst we have seen that in the Atlantic the surface-water of temperature above 25 ' C. and of mean density 1*02659 contains 0*0409 gramme per litre .
Also there is usually more carbonic acid in waters taken from the bottom and intermediate depths than in surface-water ; but if regard be had to the temperature of the water , it will be seen that there is but little difference in the amount in waters of the same temperature from whatever depth they may have been derived .
This seems to indicate that the animal life at the bottom and at great depths cannot be very abundant , otherwise there could hardly fail to be a decided excess of carbonic acid in the deep water , owing to constant production and want of the means of elimination of the gas .
On this subject , however , it would be premature to speculate before the determination of the oxygen , from which we may hope for much information .
I have made a number of experiments to detect the presence of carbonates in sea-water .
If any were present , they should be found in the residues from the determination of the carbonic acid ; and I had been in the habit of testing by adding a little acid to them , and invariably with the same result\#151 ; that carbonates were not present ; at the same time it appeared to me to be very unlikely that such should be the case , when there is plenty of carbonate of lime in the shells of the animals living and dying in it , and also plenty of carbonic acid in the water to dissolve it .
It was also not improbable that the very considerable amount of sulphate of baryta in the residues might disguise the effervescence .
I therefore evaporated a separate portion ( about 150 cub. centims.)of the water in aplatinum dish to dryness , removed the soluble salts with a little water , and added a few drops of strong hydrochloric acid , which was allowed to flow slowly over the inner surface of the dish , when even the smallest trace of carbonates could be detected by the appearance of minute bubbles on the done on board H.M.S. ' / platinum surface .
In this way I have examined a number of waters between Tahiti and Valparaiso , and with the general result that in ocean-water carbonates are never present except in small quantities , and in many samples they have been absent altogether .
They are generally present in waters at or near the surface , disappearing , however , as the depth from which the water has been taken increases .
They are generally , though not invariably , absent in waters from greater depths than 400 fathoms .
They are present or absent in bottom-water according to their occurrence in the bottom ; although here also there appears to be exceptions , as I have observed water taken from a " Globigerinci-ooze " bottom which contained no carbonate .
In connexion with carbonic acid I may mention that I have frequently tested waters , and especially bottom-waters , for organic matter .
None of the methods in use for determining this substance in drinking-water giving satisfaction when applied to sea-water , I had to content myself with endeavouring to detect its presence .
If the jelly-like organism which had been seen by some eminent naturalists in specimens of ocean bottom and called Bathybius really formed , as was believed , an all-pervading organic covering of the sea-bottom , it could hardly fail to show itself when the bottom-water was evaporated to dryness and the residue heated .
In the numerous samples of bottom-water which I have so examined , there never was sufficient organic matter to give more than a just perceptible greyish tinge to the residue , without any other signs of carbonization or burning .
Meantime my colleague , Mr. Murray , who had been working according to the directions given by the discoverers of Bathybius , had actually observed a substance like " coagulated mucus , " which answered in every particular , except the want of motion , to the description of the organism ; and he found it in such quantity that , if it were really of the supposed organic nature , it must necessarily render the bottom-water so rich in organic matter that its presence would be abundantly evident when the water was treated as above described .
There remained , then , but one conclusion , namely , that the body which Mr. Murray had observed was not an organic body at all ; and on examining it and its mode of preparation I determined it to be sulphate of lime , which had been eliminated from the sea-water , always present in the mud , as an amorphous precipitate on the addition of spirit of wine .
The substance when analyzed consisted of sulphuric acid and lime ; and when dissolved in water and the solution allowed to evaporate , it crystallized in the well-known form of gypsum , the crystals being all alike , and there being no amorphous matter amongst them .
These observations were made chiefly on the voyage from Hong Kong to Yokohama in the first quarter of the year 1875 ; and it subsequently Occurred to me that an approximate determination of the organic substance in sea-water might be effected in the following way:\#151 ; Supposing the amount of carbonic acid in the water to be known , let a little per- Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on Chemical Work manganate of potash be added to a sample of it , and let the carbonic acid be determined in the usual way by boiling the solution .
If the water contained any easily oxidizable carbon compound , we should obtain more carbonic acid in the second than in the first determination , and the difference would correspond approximately to the amount of organic carbon present .
In several waters which I have treated according to this principle , I have found from two to five milligrammes of carbon per litre .
Observations on the occurrence of Manganese Nodules on the Sea-bottom .
Occasionally pieces of stone of a black colour have been brought up , and been found to consist of peroxide of manganese mainly .
Several interesting specimens were obtained between Bermuda and the Azores , which were apparently steps in the formation of the black substance out of concretions of the bottom at the place in question .
They were obtained on the 17th and 27th June , and may be divided into four classes :\#151 ; 1st , those which contain no manganese at all ; 2nd , those where the manganese formation has commenced ; 3rd , those where it is well advanced ; and 4th , those where the bulk of the substance is peroxide of manganese .
Those of the first class are , as far as can be learned from qualitative analysis and microscopical examination , merely mechanical aggregations of the bottom existing at the place in question .
Of a white colour , and generally the same appearance , are those of the second class ; they contain , however , numerous perforations , whose walls are lined with a very thin black film peculiarly striped .
On treating with dilute hydrochloric acid , the mass is found to consist chiefly of carbonate of lime with a considerable quantity of clay .
Strong hydrochloric acid decomposes the latter , when a certain amount of chlorine is given off .
In another concretion , belonging to the same class , the manganese is seen forming in minute mammillary concretions on the outside surface , as well as on the tube linings .
Belonging to the third class is one ( also brought up on the 27th June ) where the outside is wholly covered with oxide of manganese ; and in cutting through the substance of the stone , the layer is seen to be of a sensible thickness ; also all the worm-holes are seen to be completely coated ; and numerous more minute holes are found , all of which are coated in the same way .
A very considerable percentage of the whole mass has thus become manganese .
On the face of a fresh cutting the interior of the mass may be seen to preserve its white colour .
From the edge of the black layer inwards , however , the mass is stained of a brownish colour , which gradually disappears towards the centre .
Blackish brown veins are also seen to traverse the whole mass .
Pulverised , it effervesces strongly with dilute hydrochloric acid .
The residue is easily decomposed by strong acid , evolving large quantities of chlorine ; silica is left undissolved with a little sand .
In the hydrochloric-acid solution there was found , besides alumina , manganese , and a little iron , a certain quantity of nickel and cobalt .
A concretion of the fourth class done on board H.M.S. e Challenger.3 came up on the 17th June .
It is an irregular nodule , about 1| inch long , of a brownish-black colour , having its outside surface mammillated all over .
This mammillated surface is so peculiar that , by its means , the manganese may be at once recognized .
When broken it is found to consist of irregularly concentric layers of peroxide of manganese , alternating with fine seams of calcareous and earthy matter .
It contains a small , white , earthy nucleus .
The broken surface resembles the figuring of polished walnut wood .
It consists of peroxide of manganese , alumina , iron , silica , small quantity of lime , magnesia , cobalt , and phosphoric acid .
Heated in the tube it gives out , like all these concretions , water with a strong alkaline reaction .
, The most remarkable occurrence of peroxide of manganese on the bottom was met with on the 18th February , in latitude 35 ' 45 ' N. and longitude 20 ' 12 ' W. The dredge was put over in 1500 fathoms , and came up full of dead coral of a jet-black colour on the surface .
Some of the sticks adhered to large black masses , and on breaking them the inside was seen to be perfectly white , the black substance forming merely a very thin rind which cracked off easily on receiving a smart blow .
This black rind , as well as the masses to which some of the sticks were attached , consisted of peroxide of manganese , the white part or inside having the composition of ordinary coral ( chiefly carbonate of lime ) .
The black masses to which some of the sticks were attached present , like the concretions already described , a minutely mammillated appearance on the outside , and when broken across are seen to consist of concentric layers , blacker and more compact towards the outside , and browner and more earthy towards the inside .
The layers are separated from each other by numerous very fine layers of mud , chiefly carbonate of lime .
They increase in number towards the inside , and in some instances can be seen to be composed in part of fragments of foraminiferous shells .
The black mass , was found on analysis to consist of peroxide of manganese , alumina , oxide of iron , silica , small quantities of lime and magnesia , and traces of copper , cobalt , and phosphate of lime .
Compared with the manganese concretions already described , they appear to have the same .chemical composition , and their internal structure in layers points to a similar mechanical origin ; in fact they differ from the others only in being fragments of much larger concretions .
Where the coral sticks adhere , they do not penetrate into the mass at all , but their flat roots .are as sharply divided from the black mass as the black rind is from the ; inside coral .
On the 27th June , amongst the concretions , a fragment of slate , coated on the outside with mammillated peroxide of manganese , was brought up .
The preceding notes on the occurrence of the manganese nodules was .written at the Cape of G-ood Hope , and sums up our knowledge of the subject at the close of the Atlantic cruise .
In the Antarctic Ocean the ; soundings obtained showed in a remarkable manner the general comVOL .
XXIV .
2 X 608 Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on Chemical Work parative shallowness , the depth being in general under 2000 fathoms .
" Whenever the dredge or trawl was used in that ocean it brought up large quantities of stones ; but they were invariably fragments , more or less rounded , of granitic and igneous rocks , and I did not notice any manganese .
On the 13th of March , however , when approaching Australia , the depth increased to 2600 fathoms ; a very large haul of manganese nodules was obtained , presenting the same general characteristics as those in the Atlantic .
In the Pacific the amount of manganese found has been immense , there being hardly a sounding where it could not be detected in small particles amongst the mud ; and , indeed , in many parts the nodules occur in such quantity that the sounding-tube has brought them up in considerable numbers at one time ; they have also frequently come up sticking to the bottom of the water-bottle .
Here , however , they have chiefly come under the observation of my colleague Mr. Murray , and will be treated of in his Report .
Chemically they are very much alike , as far as quantitative analysis can supply information .
They all contain one of the higher oxides of manganese in preponderating amount , cobalt and nickel in notable quantity , and'copper in traces , besides argillaceous and often sandy matter .
I hope , when the cruise is over , to be able , by means of quantitative analysis , to render a detailed account of their nature , from which it may perhaps be possible to obtain some hints as to their origin and development .
Since the discovery of this most remarkable and unexpected occurrence of a mineral , having much resemblance to psilomelane , evidently forming at the bottom of the sea , I have taken every opportunity of examining specimens of peroxide of manganese from terrestrial sources ; and in many cases I have found them to resemble the marine mineral in several points , especially in nodular structure and in giving off alkaline water when heated .
Some peroxide of manganese which I got from the mines near Paarl , about thirty miles from Cape Town , had most perfectly nodular structure , but was extremely hard , whereas our nodules , when freshly brought up , can generally , although not invariably , be easily cut with a knife ; but they increase very markedly in hardness when exposed to the air , even for only a few weeks .
I do not attach very much importance to the fact of its giving out alkaline water , for this is a property which I have found to be very generally possessed by rocks and minerals .
Of the zeolites , for instance , which were found in Kerguelen , there was not one which did not give out alkaline water with a very perceptible empyreumatic smell when heated .
It has been mentioned above that the dredge frequently brought up large quantities of stones in the Antarctic Ocean .
Amongst them were almost invariably fragments of granite or syenite , as well as of both basalt and trachyte .
On the 2nd February , 1874 , when between Kerguelen and Heard Islands , a very large quantity of stones was brought up in the dredge from a depth of 150 fathoms .
Amongst them wTere a done onboard H.M.S * Challenger.* piece of granite , also two varieties of basalt , one coarse-grained with porphyritic olivine , and the other exceedingly fine-grained and compact , without any separate crystals being visible to the naked eye .
It was chiefly remarkable from the fact that the stones , though fresh from the bottom and still quite wet outside , were , when broken , perfectly dry inside , the moisture not having penetrated beyond the thickness of a sheet of paper .
The edges of these stones were less rounded than those of the other species which accompanied them .
In order to be perfectly sure that there was no mistake , I broke about a dozen of them , the species being easily recognized by the edges of the stones being less rounded than those of the others , and always with the same result ; while those of the other species were not only wet inside , but , especially in the trachytic ones , decomposition in concentric shells had made considerable advances .
As a drop of water applied to the fractured face was readily and quickly absorbed , I can only account for the dryness inside by considering that the stones in'question had passed but a very short time under water .
As they were found in lat. 52 ' S. , and the first iceberg was only met with in 60 ' S. , it would be difficult to imagine that they had come ice-borne from the Antarctic land ; at the same time it was equally difficult to imagine any other adequate means of conveyance than ice .
I believe that they come from Heard Island , whose ice-bound shores are constantly despatching miniature bergs into the sea , which , from their insignificant size , would suffer rapid destruction alike from the violence of the seas and from the temperature of the water , which , on the occasion in question , was between 3 ' and 4 ' 0 .
Many small ice-masses , such as I have supposed , were floating off the southern shore of Corinthian Bay , which on this side had a continuous icy coast-line formed by a glacier descending from the central high grounds which culminate in Kaiser Wilhelm Peak , and reaching the sea both on the west and on the east side of the inhabited isthmus , as I have described in my short note on the island .
The position where the stones were dredged is within 100 miles of Heard Island , and through the above-mentioned agency there must be a constant conveyance of the debris of the island out to sea , which would account for the very stony character of the bottom found .
Observations on Sea-water Ice .
Many different opinions have been expressed as to the nature of ice resulting from the freezing of sea-water , all agreeing , however , in one point , that when melted the water is unfit to drink .
During the Antarctic cruise I took an opportunity of examining some of the broken pack-ice , into which the ship made an excursion on the morning of the 25th of February , and also some ice which had formed over night in a bucket of sea-water left outside the laboratory port .
The piece of pack-ice which I examined was in substance clear , with many air-bells , most of them irregularly shaped .
Two portions of this 2x2 610 Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on Chemical Work ice were allowed to melt at the temperature of the laboratory , which ranged from 2 ' to 7 ' 0 .
The melting thus took place very slowly , and made it possible to examine the water fractionally .
My experiments consisted in determining the chlorine in the water by means of tenth-normal nitrate of silver solution , and observing the temperature of the ice when melting .
A lump , which when melted was found to measure 625 cub. centims. , was allowed to melt gradually in a porcelain dish .
When about 100 cub. centims. had melted , 50 cub. centims. were taken for the determination of the chlorine ; they required 13*6 cub. centims. silver solution , corresponding to 0*0483 gramme chlorine .
When 560 cub. centims. had melted , 50 cub. centims. were titrated , and required 1*6 cub. centim. silver solution , corresponding to 0-0057 gramme chlorine .
The remainder ( 65 cub. centims. ) of the ice was then melted and 60 cub. centims. titrated ; they required 0-39 cub. centim. silver solution , corresponding to 0-0014 gramme chlorine .
We have , then , in the first 50 cub. centims. 0*0483 gramme chorine , in the next 510 cub. centims. 0-0579 gramme chlorine , and in the last 65 cub. centims. 0-0015 gramme .
Hence the whole lump ( 625 cub. centims. ) contained 0-1077 gramme chlorine , or , ' on an average , 0-1723 gramme chlorine per litre .
A qualitative analysis of the water showed lime , magnesia , and sulphuric acid to be present .
Another piece of the ice was pounded and allowed to melt in a beaker .
When about half was melted , the water was poured off and found to measure 95 cub. centims. ; 75 cub. centims. were titrated with silver solution , and required 1*9 cub. centim. The remainder , when melted , measured 130 cub. centims. , and required 0-9 cub. centim. silver solution .
Hence the first fraction of 95 cub. centims. contained 0*0085 gramme chlorine , and the second of 130 cub. centims. 0-0032 gramme chlorine .
The whole quantity ( 225 cub. centims. ) of ice , therefore , contained 0*0117 gramme chlorine , or , on an average , 0*0520 gramme per litre .
From these results it is evident that the ice under examination was very far from being an homogeneous body ; and , indeed , nothing else could be expected , when it is borne in mind that the ice in question owes its existence , not only to the bond fide freezing of sea-water , but also to the snow which falls on its surface and is congealed into a compact mass by the salt-water spray freezing amongst it .
The ice formed by freezing sea-water in a bucket was found to have formed all round the bottom and sides of the bucket , and forming a pellicle on the surface , from which , and from the sides and bottom , the ice had formed in hexagonal planes , projecting edgewise into the water .
The water was poured off , the crystals collected , washed with distilled water , pressed between filtering-paper , and one portion melted .
It measured 9 cub. centims. , and required 4 cub. centims. silver solution , corresponding to 0-0142 gramme chlorine , or 1*5780 gramme per litre .
The other portion was used for determining the melting-point .
The done on board H.M.S. 1 Challenger.3 thermometer used was one of Geissler 's normal ones , divided into tenths of a degree Centigrade , whose zero had been verified the day before in melting snow .
The melting-point of the ice-crystals was found to be \#151 ; 1''3 .
The temperature of the melting mass was observed to remain constant for twenty minutes , after which no further observations were made .
In the same way the melting-point of the pack-ice was determined .
The fresh ice began to melt at \#151 ; 1 ' ; after twenty minutes the thermometer had risen to \#151 ; 0o,9 , and two hours and a half afterwards it stood at \#151 ; 0o,3 , having remained constant for about an hour at \#151 ; 0o,4 .
Another portion of the ice rose more rapidly ; and when three fourths of the ice was melted , the thermometer stood at 0 ' .
These determinations of the temperature of melting sea-water ice show that the salt is not contained in it in the form of mechanically enclosed brine only , but exists in the solid form , either as a single crystalline substance , or as a mixture of ice and salt crystals .
Common salt , when separating from solutions at temperatures below 0 ' , crystallizes in hexagonal planes ; sea-water ice , therefore , may possibly have some analogy to the isomcrrphous mixtures occurring amongst minerals .
A very important practical consequence follows from these observa- ' tions , namely , that pack-ice , though unfit to drink when a lump of it is melted as a whole , may serve as a source of fresh water if melted fractionally .
As the melting-point of the salt ice is lower than that of pure ice , it melts first , and at the same time , by keeping down the temperature of the mass to its own melting-point , it prevents any of the fresh ice being wasted .
" When the salt ice has all been melted the brine may be thrown away , and the remainder of the ice will supply fresh water .
If a thermometer be kept in the ice during the process of melting , it will indicate by its reading when drinkable water is being formed .
Observations made on Shore in some of the Islands visited .
Viewed from the sea , the island of St. Vincent , one of the Cape-Verd group , presents an extremely rugged and desert appearance , which it preserves even upon the closest inspection .
The hills round the harbour consist of interbedded igneous rocks , the individual beds being seldom over three or four feet thick , and generally only about two feet , dipping at a gentle angle away from the centre of the harbour .
These beds are much cut up by vertical dykes of basaltic rock running in two principal directions , namely , north and south and east and west .
They frequently present an eminently columnar cleavage in the direction of their breadth .
Many of the beds which form the mass of the hill are of similar nature and cleave in the same way .
The rock on each side of these basaltic masses , whether beds or dykes , is generally much altered , and has suffered considerable disintegration and decomposition , being frequently transformed into a mass of kaolin in the neighbourhood of the basalt .
612 Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on Geological Work The effect of heat in rendering many minerals which occur in igneous rocks decomposable by acids is well known , and may furnish an explanation of the above-named phenomena .
As the dykes extend to the very tops of the hills , and the adjacent rock is weathered away leaving them projecting , the outline of the hills gets a peculiar serrated appearance , which is very characteristic of the island .
The spurs which project from the main ranges into the plains are always found to depend for their height and direction on one of these basaltic dykes , which can be followed all the way along their crest .
In many of the rocks , where their character is cellular , their cells are filled with geodes , in some cases of carbonate of lime , and in others of zeolite .
The rocks are nearly all of a porphyritic character from crystals of augite separated out .
The most common rock contains large augites in a light grey ground-mass .
The crystals are frequently arranged in bands with their longer axes parallel to each other and in the direction of the bands .
Nothing approaching to either obsidian or pumice was observed in any part of the island .
Besides the igneous rocks , there is in the plain on which the town stands and to the south of it a calcareous formation consisting of shells , corals , and rounded pebbles of the neighbouring rocks , united by a firm paste of a white and sometimes of a reddish colour ; also , from the constant prevalence of winds from one quarter , the sand from the beach has been distributed over the plains and in the valley .
At the south side of the harbour there are dunes of blown sand , which in some places is consolidated into rocks similar to those of Bermuda .
Here , however , the sand does not consist purely of carbonate of lime , but of the debris of shells and volcanic material mixed .
Hence the consolidation of it into rock is not so easy , even if there was the quantity of rain to do it .
On the sand hills the wind produces the usual beautiful ripple-mark , and the mixed character of the sand makes the levigating action of the wind very apparent , the light calcareous particles being swept into the eddies under the crest of the ripple , the heavy volcanic debris remaining on the surface .
As the colour of the latter is generally black and that of the former white , a sand hill looks lighter or darker according as it is viewed from the weather or from the lee side .
" We were told that on the other side of the island there were tolerably perfect craters ; we were , however , unable to visit them .
In the neighbourhood of the harbour there was no vestige of recent volcanic action .
At St. Paul 's rocks the ship was made fast to the rocks , and as we remained there over thirty-six hours we had ample time to thoroughly explore them .
They were visited by Darwin in the * Beagle , ' and several times later by other ships .
As the nature of the rocks appears to present some difficulty to geologists , I made as complete a collection of them as I could , and they will be sent home with the other collections from this place .
The white enamel-like incrustation mentioned by done on board H.M.S. ' 613 Darwin , I found only on the southern island .
On the northern island the bulk is composed of what I take to be Darwin 's " yellowish harsh stone , split up into numerous pseudo-fragments .
" These last have an appearance which recalls that of weathered orthoclase crystals .
All of these rocks give off alkaline water when heated in the closed tube , and consist of hydrated silicate of magnesia with alumina and protoxide of iron in subordinate quantity .
They may therefore , I think , be classed as serpentine ; and the above-mentioned resemblance to orthoclase crystals may perhaps afford some indication of the parent rock .
Of the more recent veins mentioned by Darwin , some are bordered on both sides by black bands .
These bands consist of a hard infusible substance .
The 'powder has a dirty greyish green colour , and effervesces with dilute hydrochloric acid , leaving a brown insoluble residue .
In strong hydrochloric acid it dissolves with evolution of chlorine , and the colour phenomena of dissolving peroxide of manganese .
It was found to consist of phosphate of lime , peroxide of manganese , a little carbonate of lime and magnesia , and traces of copper and iron .
Like the other rocks it gives off alkaline water in the closed tube .
At Fernando Noronha some of the smaller islands at its N.E. extremity were visited .
The highest of these , St. Michael 's Mount , forms one of the prominent peaks which are characteristic of the group .
It is very steep and formed entirely of phonolite , which occurs columnar at the base and massive towards the top .
On the western side , where we landed , the columns are inclined to the horizon at an angle of about 30 ' .
Their transverse section looks nearly square , the corners , however , being considerably rounded off .
The columns are for the most part slender , and their mass is of a dirty green colour .
In this the sanidin crystals are arranged with great regularity , with their broadest faces in a plane perpendicular to the length of the column .
The sides of the mount are covered with loose blocks of massive phonolite fallen down from above , and retained in position on a very steep incline by the branches of most luxuriant creeping plants .
On the weathered sides of these blocks the sanidin crystals , and also the hornblende ones , though in less degree , project sometimes as much as a quarter of an inch .
This rock possesses also , in a most eminent degree , the characteristic property from which it has derived its name of phonolite ; when struck with the hammer it rings like a bell .
The mount is cleft from top to bottom in two places , nearly at right angles to each other .
These clefts are filled up with a hard flinty looking substance , which appears from its structure to have been gradually deposited by water trickling down the sides .
Its mass is concretionary and sometimes foliated ; its colour is white , to yellowish white or brownish yellow .
It scratches glass with ease , and does not effervesce with acid .
Plates of 2 to 3 millims. thickness are quite translucent .
Heated in the forceps it does not fuse , but turns perfectly white , and is then easily crumbled between the fingers .
In the closed 614 Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on Geological Work tube it gives off alkaline-reacting and empyreumatic-smelling water .
It was found to consist of phosphate of alumina and iron , with some silicate and sulphate of lime .
Besides St. Michael 's Mount , Bat Island and Platform Island were landed upon .
Bat Island is the largest of the secondary islands , and the one most distant from the main island .
It is composed on the western side of massive basaltic rock , and on the eastern of sandstone .
This latter probably overlies the basalt , as in its structure it bears the marks of having been deposited in drifts , and the sand is calcareous , consisting of shell debris .
On our way to and from Bat Island we had to pass all along the western side of Booby Island .
The wave-worn cliffs showed that the island was entirely formed of the above-mentioned calcareous sandstone .
No igneous rock was visible at all ; and as the peculiar windblown stratification marks are continued below the level of the sea , it is probable that the land here is sinking , or at least has sunk .
Platform Island consists of a mass of perfect basaltic columns rising out of the water , and supporting a covering of massive basalt , on which is spread out the platform of calcareous rock , on which are the ruins of an old fort , and from which the island doubtless takes its name .
A day was spent on each of the islands of the Tristan d'Acunha group .
It consists of three :\#151 ; Tristan , the largest , Inaccessible , and Nightingale .
The last is more properly a group of islands studded all round with isolated rocks .
The difficult nature of the ground in Inaccessible and Nightingale , and that combined with the uncertain state of the weather when at Tristan , rendered excursions to a distance from the landing-place impossible .
The rock specimens , therefore , which have been collected are all from the neighbourhood of the landing-places .
Each island has its distinctive features .
Inaccessible is a raised plateau , bounded on all sides by cliffs over 1000 feet high , which plunge directly into the sea .
Looked at from the sea , there is no appearance of a crater on the top , the only inequalities in the surface being apparently due to erosion .
The waterfalls , which tumble from the cliffs , afford most picturesque proof of the abundance of water above .
Tristan Island , like Inaccessible , consists of a very similar plateau , bounded by cliffs of about the same height and almost equally impracticable .
This plateau , however , is surmounted by a lofty peak rising to the height of 8300 feet above the sea .
Nightingale Island differs from the other two as much in geological structure as in outward appearance .
The principal island rises from the sea in low cliffs , nowhere on the eastern side exceeding 30 or 40 feet , and generally lower .
At the south end the ground rises from these cliffs by several steep ascents to the peak 1105 feet high , which on its northern side presents a nearly perpendicular face of about half its height from the sea .
The rest of the island is more undulating , the light grey rocks appearing only here and there through the openings in the long tussac grass .
Of recent volcanic action there appears to done on board H.M.S. 1 .* be no trace .
The shore cliffs consist of a conglomerate , or rather \#187 ; breccia , of generally light-coloured cloleritic fragments in a white fel-spathic matrix .
These are overlaid , in places , by a bed of old igneous rocks .
The peak , which I did not reach , is composed of light grey sub-columnar rock .
All along the top of the cliffs , and about 35 feet above the sea , an ancient beach is seen to run ; and the huge caves , at a considerable height above high-water mark , afford additional evidence of the rising of the land .
The middle island , which I explored , consisted entirely of the above-mentioned breccia , and even at its highest point ( 150 feet ) it was much water-worn .
Dykes are by no means so frequent in this as in the other islands .
Where they occur penetrating the breccia , the latter appears to be rendered more easily decomposable , the result being that the dykes form the axes along which creeks or inlets indent the shore .
In the island of Tristan , the gully behind the settlement , in the centre of which the spring rises which supplies the village brook , is formed in a similar way .
It is backed by a vertical dyke ( if a mass at least sixty yards wide can be called so ) of rock similar to that observed on Nightingale , and , like it , it has altered the adjacent rock considerably ; and , probably from the pressure of the sides during its injection , it has a most perfect , almost slaty cleavage , which renders it easily clisintegrable , though it does not appear to decompose easily .
Dykes of this description , but of usually not more than 1 or 2 feet in thickness , traverse the rocks , seen in section in the face of the cliff , both in Tristan and Inaccessible , in great numbers .
Besides these , there are others of a very compact , fine-grained , basaltic rock intersecting the nearly horizontal layers , which form the cliff , in all directions , and showing very marked differences in texture at the sides , where the action on the contiguous rock is apparent .
In one of the specimens collected the rock in the interior of the dyke is of the usual light colour , while the edge is marked by a black obsidian-like band of half an inch breadth , as sharply defined from the internal mass as if it had been painted .
The cliffs , being quite perpendicular and naked , give a good view of a vertical section of the island .
At their base the rubbish fallen down from them has accumulated to a heap reaching sometimes quite 100 feet up the face .
I had thus the opportunity of observing two sections of what had been valleys or hollows , but which were filled up with finely levigated volcanic material .
From the arrangement of the material I should think that it had been erupted by a subaerial volcano and fallen into a bay , where it had gradually settled .
If such has been the case , it furnishes additional evidence of the rising of the land in these parts .
During the cruise between the Cape of Good Hope and Melbourne three islands were landed on , namely , Marion , Kerguelen , and Heard islands .
On the first of these a day was spent .
The soft mossy nature of the ground made the 'walking very heavy , which , combined with the 616 Mr. J. Y. Buchanan on Geological Work necessity of being at any time prepared to join the ship in case of change of weather , rendered any expedition far from the coast impossible .
Viewed from the sea , the rocky shores are seen to be surmounted by an undulating country covered with herbage , which , as the height increases , passes into a barren mountain cluster with many sharp and sometimes perfectly conical peaks .
The highest of these were covered with snow , and for the greater part of the day enveloped in mist ; the lower ones were mostly of a bright brick-red colour .
Where the coast cliffs could be viewed they showed layers of compact and brecciated lavas of no great thickness .
Having landed at the mouth of a watercourse , I traversed the beach to the westward until I reached the next stream , which I followed some distance inland .
When the swampy moss-covered ground , whose uniformly dull green colour was relieved here and there by the snowy plumage of the nesting albatross , had been left behind , the stream was found to flow over an apparently very recent stream of black cellular lava , whose ripples and eddies were still perfectly fresh , except in the very centre , where they had suffered some slight abrasion ; of any hollowing action on the part of the water , however , there was no trace , the windings and little waterfalls being still determined by the original inequalities of the solidifying rock .
The lava was basaltic , containing much olivine .
Close by the bed of the stream rose several of the above-mentioned red conical hills .
One of these , the highest within reach , and the only one I had time to ascend , consisted of a heap of loose scoriae dipping away on all sides at a regular and very steep angle .
Few of these pieces of scoriae were more than six inches in diameter ; and had it not been for the occasional clumps of moss , which alone afforded a sure footing , the ascent would have been a matter of considerable time .
At the top was a perfectly conical pit , and slightly below the summit , on the north side , were three smaller and similar pits .
The scoriae of which the hill is made up consisted of a highly cellular red ground-mass , with indications of augite , without , however , any perfect crystals being discernible .
Besides the red scoriae , there were some of a chocolate-brown colour , with frothy exterior and compact kernel .
The shape of some of them resembled the almond-shaped bombs found in many volcanic districts ; but I did not notice any with the dense outside and highly cellular core so characteristic of the true volcanic bomb .
Besides this hill there were five or six others precisely similar in appearance , and rising out of the same valley or depression in the ground .
From the top of .the hill this depression could be seen to be bounded , towards the interior , by a semicircular cliff of rock , in some parts columnar , and open towards the sea .
Above this cliff rose the snow-covered cones and peaks of the interior , which , wherever the snow had been removed , showed the same red colour and steep sides , so that there can be little doubt of their being similarly formed to those on the lower ground .
On leaving the stream-bed and returning to the eastward over the spur of the mountain , the done on board H.M.S. ' 617 above-mentioned cliff had to be skirted , and it was found to consist of a 1 light grey compact doleritic rock .
From these few observations it may be concluded that the island consists of a foundation of older igneous rock ruptured and surmounted by recent volcanoes .
That these have been active at no very ancient date is , I think , rendered probable by the perfect preservation of the forms of the cones with their summit craters , and by the fact that the mossy vegetation so luxuriant at their base , and retaining this luxuriance on the certainly older mountain-spurs to an elevation at least equal to that of the top of the cone ascended , has as yet spread up their sides only in ' straggling isolated patches .
The evidence afforded by the want of erosion deserves all the more weight when the position of the island is remembered , where , of necessity , the rainfall must be considerable .
The island of Kerguelen wTas visited at various points on the northeastern and south-eastern coasts .
The first part touched at was Christmas Harbour , already visited by Cook , Ross , and other navigators .
It is a deep inlet surrounded by high rocky banks , which are in many places quite precipitous .
At the head of the bay there is an extensive sandy beach ; and the ground behind it slopes at a tolerably easy gradient up to the top of the ridge , which is occupied by a large lake .
From a ship anchored in the harbour an excellent general view of the arrangement of the rocks can be obtained ; they are seen to be arranged in apparently perfectly horizontal beds , the separation lines of the different beds being easily traced all round the harbour .
Where the sides are not precipitous the summit of the ridge is attained by a series of terraces , and the summit of the ridge is , as might have been expected , almost perfectly flat .
The continuity of the flat-topped surfaces , both of the northern and of the southern ridges , is broken by the two most conspicuous objects in the landscape , namely , Table Mountain on the north , and one unnamed on the south .
This rock-mass does not project above the horizontal hill-top , but rather appears to stand out from it like a huge boulder .
The summit of the ridge has been called Mount Havergal ; but it is formed of the ordinary bedded rock , this " neck " of conglomerate not reaching any greater height than that of the contiguous parts of the ridge .
These hills belong to a class representatives of which were found again in the south in Greenland Harbour ; and as they resemble each other closely they will be described together .
In both places they protrude through the horizontal beds of basalt , differing from these and from each other in nature , and without having caused any apparent disturbance in the arrangement of the beds which surround them .
The horizontal beds which form the mass of the land are basaltic , and vary from 10 to 20 feet in thickness , being generally compact but in ascending the hill beds are met with frequently which contain large amygdaloidal cavities filled with zeolites , principally analcite and heu618 Mr. J. Y. Buchanan Geological Work landite .
These minerals are very plentiful in this part of the island ; and when rounded by the action of water , they form remarkable white pebbles on the otherwise dark-coloured volcanic sand , tip to the summit the alternation of beds of compact subcolumnar rock of amygdaloid is pretty regular .
The amygdaloid is of two kinds ; in one the cells are small , very thickly disseminated , and completely filled up by a zeolitic mineral ; the other has larger cavities , less thickly spread , and generally only coated with crystals , while seams filled with crystalline matter are also frequently met with .
The cavities contain generally analcite , the seams heulandite .
The ridge on the southern side is higher than that on the northern ; and from it , on a clear day , a very extensive view of the island towards the southward can be obtained .
The coast on this side being much indented by fiord-like inlets , the horizontal bedding of the rocks in which they are enclosed can be distinguished , even at great distances , by the consequent terracing of the hill-sides , which is especially conspicuous on the shoulders and promontories .
It is worthy of remark that , to the eye viewing as above , the heights of the ridges appear to differ very little from each other , the effect produced being that of a vast tableland quarried into deep indentations running down to the sea .
Out of this plateau rise many peaks of considerable altitude , and often so sharp and steep in outline that at first I never doubted they were recent volcanic mountains .
A nearer view of them , however , showed them generally to consist of the same horizontally bedded rock found underneath ; and it was impossible to avoid the impression that they might be the remnants of a higher plateau , of which all but these peaks had been removed by the rodent action of ice , of which there is abundant evidence .
After leaving Christmas Harbour anchor was dropped in Betsy Cove , a small bay near the eastern end of the island .
Here the hills have exactly the same structure as in the north , consisting of horizontal layers ; but they are further removed from the sea , and from their base to Point Digby stretches an expanse of almost perfectly level plain , broken only by the remarkable Mount Campbell , which I regret I was not able to visit .
Prince of " Wales 's Poreland is an elevation formed by slender basaltic columns , many of which were clustered together into what , if perfect , would have formed spherical agglomerations .
The basalt contained large cavities filled with olivine .
Behind this rocky point the usual flat-topped range of hills stretches inland , which consists of the same basalt with much olivine , only not columnar , but in tabular masses with almost slaty cleavage .
Nearly opposite Prince of Wales 's Poreland , and on the other side of the entrance to Royal Sound , is a very remarkable hill of a castellated appearance ; it was called " Cat 's ears .
" I believe it belongs to the same class of hills as Table Mountain in Christmas Harbour .
The ruggedly done on board H.M.S. ( * \#166 ; worn rock at the crest , which gives it its castellated look , consists of a light-coloured ground , in which are enclosed pieces of the recent scoria-ceous lava which occurs immediately beneath it and large crystals of augite .
These crystals , though apparently perfect when imbedded in the rock , were not found otherwise than broken when weathered out ; and in places inside these natural battlements , where there was free play for the usually boisterous wind , all the lighter sand had been blown away , leaving the ground covered by a jet-black gravel .
Both these crystals and the rocks show the abrading effect of blown sand , the crystals having lost their regularity of form and the rocks having acquired a more definite shape than would have been the case had the weathering proceeded equally on all sides .
Here , however , and still more remarkably so in Heard Island , the constant and violent westerly winds , wherever they have an opportunity of charging themselves with sand , sculpture the rocks into shapes of apparently unnatural regularity .
From this hill another similar but smaller one could be seen close to the base of the " Sugar-loaf .
" It resembled more a circle of Druidical stones protruding through the moorland than a hill ; my time , however , was too limited to admit of my visiting either it or the imposing Sugar-loaf , the structure of which appeared from a distance to be quite peculiar .
On entering Greenland Harbour , which at its head is only separated by a narrow neck of land from Boyal Sound , the eye is at once struck by the strange protrusions of light grey rock through the ordinary horizontal basaltic beds which form the hill-ranges .
The most extensive of them , which occurs on the summit of the range on the western side of the harbour , has at a distance a very strong resemblance to a ruined castle .
I was able to examine two of them , one on the summit and one down nearer the landing-place , both on the west side of the harbour .
The rock in both of them is identical , and consists of a light , greenish-white phonolite protruding through the horizontal beds of augitic rock .
These cylindrical masses of phonolite are columnar at the outer edges , the columns lying horizontally and being arranged radially .
This columnar structure , however , disappears a few feet from the outside , and the rock is simply massive .
The effect of weathering has been to split it up into loose blocks , which lie thickly scattered over the ground enclosed .
The whole outside line being constructed of horizontal columns , forms a sort of natural cyclopian wall , much more capable of resisting the degrading influence of the weather than the massive inside ; hence we might expect that as they always protrude on a hill slope , the rock being disintegrated in the centre would slip down the hill , forming a heap or talus of rubbish below , and overwhelming the wall encircling the lower edge , but at the same time falling away from the wall of the upper edge , which , thanks to its artificial structure , is able to keep together its fragments ; and , in fact , this is what we observe .
The upper wall of the more distant one , which stands out a prominent object on the summit of the ridge , is over 620 Mr. J. Y. Buchanan Geological Work 50 feet high , and presents a perfectly smooth wall-face to the outside .
As it stretches down the hill-slope , which here is very steep , its height diminishes irregularly until it is lost in the heap of loose stones which covers the lower wall and the whole inside .
The rock is hard and compact , of a light greenish grey colour , with much of the appearance , though none of the ring , of phonolite .
Near the outside , or in the columnar part , the rock is closer-grained than in the centre , and has a distinct cleavage in a plane perpendicular to the length of the columns .
It gelatinizes partially with hydrochloric acid , and the solution contains much soda and some sulphuric acid .
It is therefore probable that both nepheline and nosean are present .
Another prominence on this side of the harbour is formed of precisely similar material .
It is a round , greenish grey hill covered with phono-litic rock lying about in angular fragments , generally of a size to be easily lifted .
The rock is very similar to that of the hills just described ; and it seems to belong to the same class , differing from the others owing to the complete disappearance of the outside wall , large pieces of which lie scattered on the slope like portions of dislodged masonry .
It is to be remarked that in neither of these cases was there any distortion in the beds in which the phonolite occurred .
The line of junction of the highest one with the augitic rock was very well shown , and I was enabled to get specimens from it .
For some feet from the line of junction the basalt is considerably altered , the large crystals of augite and olivine disappearing as the line of junction is approached .
This line is in general quite decided ; there are many angular particles of the phonolite completely surrounded by the basalt , whereas basalt imbedded in phonolite was not observed .
Further , the grain of this basalt , in immediate proximity to the junction , is very fine , becoming rapidly coarser till the basalt at 10 feet from the junction has the porphyritic appearance which it presents at other parts of the hill .
These two facts appear to point to the phonolite as being the more ancient of the two , and to the basalt as having flowed round it .
How the phonolite came to be sticking up in the pillar-like form which it must have had is very difficult to say ; but the peak of Fernando Noronha , however it may have been formed , is always evidence of the possibility of such a thing .
There is no necessity for supposing that the portions of these phonolitic masses which we see should be sections of cylinders : they may equally well be sections of domes .
The other view that the phonolite had burst through the lava appears to me to be untenable in view of the facts above stated .
Of the similar hills in Christmas Harbour , Table Mountain consists of columnar basalt with large cavities filled with olivine .
The columns starting normally to the cylindrical surface of the enclosiug rock curve upwards , and , unlike the phonolite , are continued well into the mass of the hill .
The top of this hill is covered with loose fragments of basaltic columns .
I did not succeed in obtaining specimens from the junction done on board H.M.S. ' Challenger* 621 of the columnar with the bedded rock ; in fact there appeared to have been next to no fusion between the two .
The corresponding hill on the south side of the harbour is formed entirely of volcanic conglomerate , intersected here and there by dykes , some of which show on the outside the obsidian-like bands produced by rapid cooling , which were observed in considerable abundance at Tristan d'Acunha .
Fossil wood is found on the south side of Christmas Harbour imbedded in the igneous rock .
It occurs in stumps and smaller branches .
The colour varies from yellowish white to chocolate-brown and black .
Its hardness is also very variable .
Even in the perfectly white pieces there is still much organic matter remaining .
The bark has been transformed into a brown crystalline mass of greasy appearance , which effervesces with acid .
The inside of one rather large trunk , the core of which had probably rotted away , was entirely filled up with a mass of igneous rock with elongated cavities filled with crystals .
Iron pyrites was occasionally observed .
Parts that internally consisted of nothing but trap-rock often presented on the outside the fibrous appearance of the simply silicified wood ; the thickness of this rind , however , was insignificant .
A species of brown coal occurs on the south side of Christmas Harbour between two layers of basalt , and only a few feet above the sea .
It is , practically , of no use , being too poor to burn at all alone .
Near the eastern point of Howe Island much amygdaloid was found , the geodes here consisting almost exclusively of agate .
The tops of the hills were thickly strewed with such as , in the lapse of time , had been weathered out of the matrix .
Many of these presented a very striking appearance , one of the comers of the cast of the cavity having been neatly planed off , and in some instances even highly polished , in others covered with a natural etching of great beauty .
The occurrence of these abraded faces is , I think , a further evidence of the recent prevalence of ice-action over the whole island ; and it must be remembered that glaciers actually do reach the sea-level in fiords on the main island not more than twenty miles distant .
It is worthy of remark that , although amygdaloids are common along the north-eastern side of the island , the nature of the geodes is different in different localities .
In Christmas Harbour they are almost exclusively zeolites ; in Cumberland Bay those who have visited it report numerous cavities in the rock filled with quartz crystals , and , indeed , one of the promontories in it is called Crystal Point ; while at Howe Island the silica with which the cavities were filled occurred entirely in compact masses of agate or chalcedony .
The cavities were usually quite full , the geodes being solid and forming an accurate cast of the cavity .
Where this was not the case the interior presented a finely mammillated surface .
I did not observe quartz crystals either here or at Christmas Harbour ; nor did I observe the zeolites , so common in the last-named locality , either at Howe Island or Betsy Cove .
622 Geological Work done on board H.M.S. J Scoriae were only met with on one occasion , namely , on the hill called " Cat 's ears , " at the entrance to Royal Sound ; but , as far as could be decided by a view from the sea , they seemed to be by no means rare on the southern coast , where the cliffs , worn by the violence of the southwesterly gales , show sections of what undoubtedly is red scoriaceous matter .
The whalers whojtrequent the harbours of the island chiefly for sealing purposes , and from whom much valuable and reliable information was obtained , affirmed the existence of an active volcano on the western side of the island , as well as of springs of mineral water , both hot and cold , and of petroleum .
It is much to be regretted that our time was too limited to allow of our visiting the but little-known coast of the western side of the island .
The group of Heard and M'Donald islands was visited after leaving Kerguelen .
McDonald , the smaller of the two , is , I believe , quite inaccessible .
The ship anchored in Corinthian Bay , Heard Island , on the afternoon of the 6th February , when I had the opportunity of spending about an hour and a half on shore .
The landing-place was at the head of the bay on a flat sandy beach at the mouth of a river which comes out of one of the magnificent glaciers which form a continuous ice-wall along the southwestern shores of the bay .
Like all glacier-streams it was very muddy .
The island here is very narrow , not more than a mile broad , and the sandy plain stretches from sea to sea ; it , in fact , forms the heads of three bays , namely , Corinthian bay facing to the north-east , the open sea towards the south-west , and a narrow bay which runs in between two remarkable promontories on the north-east .
The connexion of these two promontories with the main island by means of this sandy plain is so low that a depression of a few feet would suffice to separate them from each other and from the mainland .
The sand is very dark-coloured and highly magnetic , and was being blown with such violence by the then prevailing south-west wind , that it was necessary , when exposed to it , to use some protection for the face .
Nowhere have I seen the abrading power of blown sand better exemplified than on the isolated rocks which have rolled down from the heights above and remained fixed in the sandy plain , exposed to the constant strong south-westerly gales , driving the sharp volcanic sand against their sides .
In this way they have frequently been cut and dressed as by a mason 's chisel .
It is , however , not the south-westerly winds alone which produce this effect ; but from their great predominance they have given the rocks the peculiar " sheared " appearance , much resembling that assumed by the trees growing on a coast exposed to the trade-winds .
If favourably placed rocks be carefully examined , the effect of every prevalent wind will be observed in the facets which it has produced on the surface .
The largest facet , and the one which determines the general appearance of the rock , is the one turned towards the west ; and I do not doubt that the areas of the others would afford useful information as to the relative prevalence of other winds .
On the Voyage from the Falkland Islands to Monte Video .
623 Of the promontories above mentioned , the one which extends towards the west is a lofty mountain rising precipitously from the sea on the N.E. and S.W. , and terminating in two peaks .
Between these two peaks a glacier descends to the edge of the cliff overhanging the sea on the north-east side , over which the ice-masses fall with a thundering noise .
The other promontory or peninsula is covered by a flow of very recent lava , the eddies and ripples on the surface being still quite fresh .
This stream of lava proceeds from the base of a recent but much dilapidated crater , which having sprung up close to the sea could only have been preserved by renewing its substance with constant eruption .
When this ceased , the degrading action of the waves began to tell ; and at present it is worn into a group of fantastic-looking peaks , the vertical sides of which are marked by the layers of scoriae dipping away from the centre .
The lava-stream covers the whole of the peninsula , and from having been worn by the waves it forms a range of low black cliffs along the north side of Corinthian Bay .
In the face of these cliffs many large cavities , bubbles in the once molten lava , had been opened , and were tenanted by the nesting Cape pigeon .
The glaciers which cover the whole of the southern side of Corinthian Bay have been prevented from encroaching on the beach at the head of it by a sharp conical hill of scoriae , behind which the ice-covering stretches from sea to sea .
H.M.S. ' Challenger , ' December , 1875 .
[ The Tables which accompany this paper are preserved for reference in the Society 's Archives.\#151 ; Sec. R.S. ] VII .
ec Report to the Hydrographer of the Admiralty on the Voyage of the c Challenger ' from the Falkland Islands to Montevideo , and a Position in lat. 32 ' 24 ' S. , '.long .
13 ' 5r W.w By Prof. Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff on board .
Received May 5,1876 .
Read June 15 .
[ Plates 25-33 .
] H.M.S. * Challenger , ' Ascension , March 1876 .
Sir , \#151 ; I have the honour to report that we left Stanley Harbour in East-Falkland Island for Monte Video on the afternoon of the 6th of February , and on the 8th we sounded in lat. 48 ' 37 ' S. , long .
55 ' 17 ' W. , about 200 miles to the N.E. of Stanley , in a depth of 1035 fathoms .
The trawl was lowered , but it was unfortunately carried away , after the weights , which were at a distance of 300 fathoms in advance of the trawl , had been brought in board .
The rope looked much chafed , as if it had been ground against rocks .
The sounding-machine brought up no sample of the VOL. xxiv .
2 Y

