Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palaeozoic Rocks .
249 III .
" On the Nature of Electro-capillary Phenomena .
I. Their Relation to the Potential Differences between Solutions .
" By S. W. J. Smith .
Communicated by Professor Rucker , Sec. R.S. " On the Structure and Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Pakeozoic Rocks .
III .
On Medullosa anglica , a new Representative of the Cycadofilices .
" By D. H. Scott , M.A. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Hon. Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received December 21 , 1898\#151 ; Read January 26 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The existence of a group of fossil plants , combining in their organisation certain characters of the Ferns and the Cycads , has been recognised , of late years , by several palseobotanists , as , for example , by the late Professor W. C. Williamson , Count Solms-Laubach , Mr. Seward , and the author .
The convenient name , Cycadofilices , has recently been proposed by Professor Potonie to designate the group in question , which now includes several , somewhat heterogeneous , genera , among which Lyginodendron , Heterangium , and Medullosa may be mentioned .
Several species of the genus Medullosa ( founded in 1832 by Cotta ) have already been described , from the Permian and Upper Coal-measures of the Continent .
They agree in the extraordinarily complex structure of the stem , which , as shown by Zeiller and Solms-Laubach , resembles in the ground plan of its organisation , that of a highly differentiated Fern , of the usual polystelic type , but with the addition of a zone of secondary wood and bast , sometimes reaching an immense thickness , developed around each steal .
The mature stem thus acquired a Cycad-like character .
The structure , however , has been extremely difficult to interpret owing to the comparative rarity and incomplete character of the specimens hitherto known .
No stem of a Medullosa has hitherto been recorded from this country , though specimens of Myeloxylon , now known to have been the petioles of Medullosa , are frequent in the calcareous nodules of the Lower Coal-measures .
The author has recently had the opportunity of investigating several excellent specimens of a new species of Medullosa from the Ganister Beds of Lancashire .
These fossils are of special interest on several grounds ; they are considerably more ancient than any members of the genus previously described , they are the first English specimens recorded , they are preserved in a more complete and perfect form than Dr. D. H. Scott .
On Structure and any others at present known , and lastly , the greater simplicity of their structure causes the essential characters of the genus to stand out with greater clearness than in the more complex species .
The specimens were discovered by Mr. G. Wild and Mr. J. Lomax , in material from the Hough Hill Colliery , Stalybridge .
The sections have been cut , with the greatest skill and success , by Mr. Lomax , and are very numerous , about 100 sections , transverse and longitudinal , having been examined from one specimen alone .
The principal specimens are four in number , in addition to which other fragments have been included in the investigation .
The species , which is very distinct from any form previously described , will be known as Medulbsaanglica ; a diagnosis is given below .
The most complete specimen of the stem has a mean diameter of rather more than 7 cm .
, including the adherent leaf-bases .
The others do not appear to have been very different in dimensions .
The large leaf-bases , to judge from the most perfect specimens , almost completely clothed the surface of the stem .
They were de-current , and confluent with the stem for a vertical distance of 13 cm .
or more , the diameter of the petiole , where it became free from the stem , being about 3 or 4 cm .
The arrangement of the leaves was a spiral one , and in the only case where the phyllotaxis could be determined , the divergence proved to be 2/ 5 .
In two of the specimens the external characters of the fossil are well shown .
The outer surface of the long leaf-bases is marked by a conspicuous longitudinal striation , the ribs ( which would not have been so prominent during life ) representing the fibrous strands of the hypodermal tissue .
The habit of the stem , clothed with the long , almost vertical , overlapping leaf-bases , may have been not unlike that of some of the tree-ferns , such as Also The vascular system of the stem consists of three ( or locally four ) steles , anastomosing and dividing at long intervals .
Each steal has an elongated , somewhat irregular , sectional form , and is composed of a central mass of primary wood , surrounded by a zone of secondary wood and phloem .
The primary wood , which is very well preserved , is made up of tracheides and conjunctive parenchyma , with the spiral elements ( protoxylem ) scattered near its outer margin .
The secondary wood consists of radial series of tracheides and medullary rays ; the secondary tracheides bear multiseriate bordered pits on their radial walls ; most of the primary tracheides are pitted in the same way , but on all sides alike .
In the neighbourhood of the protoxylem-groups the tracheides of the primary wood are spiral or scalariform .
The phloem is mack up of elongated elements , presumably the sieve-tubes , forming a network , the meshes of which are occupied by the phloem-rays .
Each steal of Medullosaanglica shows the closest agreement in structure with the single steal of a Heterangmm , so that the stem of this Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palceozoic Pocks .
251 Medullosa might well be concisely described as a polystelic Heter-angium .
The course of the leaf-trace bundles was followed very completely in consecutive series of transverse , and in longitudinal , sections .
The leaf-traces leave the steles precisely in the same manner as in Heter-angium .
On becoming free the trace is a large concentric bundle , surrounded by its own zone of secondary wood and bast .
As it passes obliquely upwards through the cortex , the trace loses its secondary tissues , and undergoes repeated division into a number of smaller bundles , each of which has collateral structure .
These collateral strands have in all respects the same arrangement of their elements as the well known bundles of Myeloxylon .
The base of the leaf received a large number of bundles , consisting of the ultimate branches derived from the subdivision of several of the original leaf-traces .
This distribution of the bundles is peculiar and unlike that in any known plants of Cycadean affinities .
In a few cases accessory vascular strands , of concentric structure , recalling the cortical bundles of a Cycas , were found to the outside of the normal stelar system .
The stem formed a well marked zone of internal periderm .
In one specimen the whole of the outer cortex , with the leaf-bases , had been exfoliated , so that in this case the periderm formed the external surface .
Ihe leaf-bases and petioles present in all respects , as regards hypo-derma , vascular bundles , and gum-canals , the characters of the Myeloxylon Landriotiiof Renault , which was evidently not a species , but a type of leaf-stalk common to various Medullosese .
The petioles branched repeatedly , the finest ramifications of the rachis having a diameter of about 1 mm. only , but retaining in essentials the " " structure .
The leaf was thus a highly compound one ; the structure of the leaflets associated with the rachis agrees well with that of the Alethopteris leaflets , figured by M. Renault .
1 he roots , never previously observed in any species of , were of triarch structure , with abundant formation of secondary wood and bast , and an early development of internal periderm , by which the primary cortex was thrown off .
Developmental stages show that the periderm originated in the perieycle .
The roots , which branched freely , were borne on the stem in vertical series , between the bases of the leaves .
1 hey were attached to pedicels , through which the vascular tissues of the roots were continuous with those of the stem .
The author is indebted to Mr. J. Butterworth and Mr. G. Wild , for specimens which have thrown important light on the connection between root and stem .
The full paper concludes with a short historical resume , and a discussion of affinities .
Medullosa anglica , in the structure of its stem , shows unmistakable VOL. I.XIV .
it 252 Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palaeozoic Kochs .
affinities with Heterangium , perhaps the most fern-like of the genera grouped under Cycadofilices .
The new species is far simpler than any Medullosa hitherto described , for the steles are not only few but are uniform , showing no differentiation into a peripheral and a central system .
The small central steles , called " Star-rings " in other Medul-l'osese , are absent here .
In these and other points the species agrees with the genus Colpoxylon of Brongniart , but as that genus is doubtfully distinct and its leaves are not known , it is not proposed to unite the English species with it .
In the structure of the petiole and of the leaf generally , Medullosa anglica is as highly organised as any of the Medullosese , and agrees closely with M. Leuckarti , the only other species in which the connection between leaf and stem has been at all satisfactorily proved .
In the structure of the petioles , and of the roots , in the secondary tissues , and in the secretory canals , which occur throughout the plant , there are clear points of agreement with Cycads , though the primary structure of the stem was that of a Fern .
The affinities in the latter-direction came out more clearly in Medullosa anglica than in any of the other species as at present known .
The habit of the leaves , if as appears likely , they were of the Ale-thopteris type , must have been fern-like , but that in itself , as the familiar example of Stangeriateaches , is as consistent with Cycadaeeous as with Filicinean affinities .
While Medullosa thus combines , in a striking manner , the characters of Ferns and Cycads , the author is not disposed to regard it as having lain very near the direct line of descent of the latter group .
It is more probable , as Count Solms-Laubach has suggested , that the Medullosere represent a divergent branch , which has left no descendants among existing vegetation .
Medullosa anglica , sp. nov .
Stem vertical , clothed by large , spirally arranged decurrent leaf-bases , perhaps cast off in old stems .
External surface of leaf-bases longitudinally striate .
Vascular system of stem consisting of a few ( usually three ) uniform steles , somewhat elongated and lobed as seen in transverse section .
Star-rings absent .
Interior of each steal wholly occupied by primary wood .
Secondary wood and bast of moderate thickness , developed on all sides of the steles .
Tracheides usually with bordered pits .
Leaf-traces concentric on leaving the steles , branching and becoming collateral in traversing the cortex .
Leaf-bases and petioles with the structure of Ren .
Leaves highly compound .
On the Nature of Electro-capil Phenomena .
253 Gum-canals abundant in the petioles and leaf-bases , and in the cortex , and around the steles of the stem .
Adventitious roots borne in vertical series , triarch , with secondary-wood and bast , and periderm .
Stem with leaf-bases , about 7\#151 ; 8 cm .
in mean diameter .
Petioles about 2*5\#151 ; 4 cm .
in diameter at base , diminishing to about 1 mm. in the ultimate branches of the rachis .
Leaflets about 3 ipm .
wide .
Roots reaching 12 mm. in diameter .
Locality : Hough Hill Colliery , Stalybridge , Lancashire .
Horizon : Lower Coal-measures .
Found by Messrs. G. Wild and J. Lomax , 1892-98 .
" On the Nature of Electro-capillary Phenomena .
I. Their Relation to the Potential Differences between Solutions .
" By S. W. J. Smith , M.A. , formerly Coutts-Trotter Student of Trinity College , Cambridge ; Demonstrator of Physics in the Royal College of Science , London .
Communicated by Professor A. W. Rucker , Sec. R.S. Received January 5 , \#151 ; Read January 26 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
The Lippmann-Helmholtz theory of the capillary electrometer contains two assumptions .
2 .
The first assumption would apply to any electrolytic cell .
A deduction from it , which would apply to any cell having a large and a small electrode , is that the variation of the potential difference at the capillary electrode of an electrometer is the same as that of the applied electromotive force .
In order to trace the relation between surface tension and potential difference on the view that this first assumption is correct , it is necessary to eliminate the possible effect of depolarisation upon the form of the electro-capillary curve\#151 ; i.e. , the curve which shows the relation between the surface tension and the applied electromotive force .
A direct method of examining the depolarisation current is described and applied .
An estimate of the magnitude of the depolarisation effect is given , and the circumstances under which the effect may become appreciable are discussed .
3 .
The second assumption of the Lippmann-Helmholtz theory , that the electro-capillary phenomena are controlled by a simple variation of the electrostatic surface energy , leads to two conclusions , each of which is beset with difficulties .

