164 Capt. Abney .
On Effect of the [ Dec. 15r Picrate of fi-Lutidine .
When / 3-lutidine is added to a strong boiling solution of picric acid most of the salt formed settles out as an oil , owing to its insolubility and fusibility , but it becomes a solid crystalline mass on cooling .
On redissolving the solid in boiling water , and allowing the solution to cool , the vessel becomes filled with brilliant yellow needles .
They were burnt with oxide of copper , with the necessary precautions , and gave the following numbers :\#151 ; Experiment .
Mean .
Calculation .
_________A________ Carbon ... ... ... 4677 4675 46-8C ?
4677 ^46-43 cjis qjjg Hydrogen ... ... .
471 476 3'94 4-07 3-57 H13 12 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
16-67 56 Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
3333 07 112 The formula is , therefore\#151 ; 100-00 336 C6H3(H.C7H9N)3(N03).0 .
Action of Chlorine on ^-Lutidin of Iodine .
The chlorination of / 3-lutidine was effected by Hugo Muller 's method ; for this purpose iodine was added to the alkaloid , the mixture was heated to 100 ' , and a current of chlorine was passed through until complete saturation .
The product was a dark reddish-brown fluid , which was distilled .
The portion boiling below 220 ' was washed with a dilute solution of hydrate of sodium , and then treated with hydrochloric acid , a viscid green substance of peculiar odour remained undissolved .
On adding solution of platinic chloride to the filtered liquid , a granular precipitate was obtained ; it was washed , dried , and the percentage of platinum determined : it amounted to 23'49 per cent. The formula 2(C7H6Cl ' ?
N.HCl)PtCl4 requires 23-74 .
This result shows that the product is a trichlorinated / 3-lutidine retaining the basic properties of the original alkaloid .
V. " On the Effect of the Spectrum on the Haloid Salts of Silver , and on Mixtures of the same .
" By Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. Communicated to the Royal Society at the request of the Committee on Solar Physics .
Received December 6 , 1881 .
There have been many investigations as to the sensitiveness to the ' spectrum of the haloid salts of silver , from the very earliest days of photography ; and when the results obtained by the different investi"j Spectrum on the Haloid Salts of ,8fc* 16\amp ; crators are compared one with another there are often very wide discrepancies apparent .
It appeared to me that it was desirable if possible to examine the subject afresh , and to endeavour to reconcile or to explain as far as possible these discrepancies .
The earlier investigators , such as Herschel , Hunt , Draper , and Becquerel , added much to the knowledge of the subject , but their researches were carried on at a time when the modem modifications and more powerful means of development of an image were unknown .
Later investigators , including such eminent names as H. W. Vogel and Eder , have availed themselves of the modem appliances , but their results are not always consistent one with another .
In the following researches points are brought out which are , it is believed , new and deserving of attention , not only on account of their applicability to the practical working of photography , but also because they throw a light on molecular physics .
For solar photography it is essential that a knowledge of the relative effect of the various parts of the spectrum should be known , since , if the photo-heliograph be adjusted for one particular part , and the films employed be more sensitive to another part , it is manifest that no great sharpness of image can be obtained .
The following researches it is believed show what an enormous effect the mixture of haloid salts has in shifting the position of maximum effect , and it may be possible to either alter the achromatism of the objectives employed , or else solely to use the sensitive compound to which the objective is at present adapted .
Apparatus employed.\#151 ; The spectroscope employed in these researches was that already described " On the Effect of the Atomic Grouping of Molecules .
" * Two prisms of medium dense and colourless flint-glass were used to obtain the necessary dispersion .
They were set to have the angle of minimum deviation near G. The angle of dispersion between A and H was about fi^0 , the length of spectrum between these two lines was about inches , the spectrum in the ultra-violet extending some I4 inch beyond H , and the infra-red about 4 of an inch beyond A. The whole spectrum as given by the prisms under consideration thus had a length of 4^ inches , a length in which all phenomena could be fully recognised and measured .
Sources of Light.\#151 ; The sources of light employed were the sun and the crater of the positive pole of the electric light .
Images of these sources were thrown on the slit by means of a condensing lens alone in the second case , and by it and a heliostat in the first case .
' Vehicles holding the Sensitive Salts.\#151 ; The sensitive salts were held in situ , in paper , in gelatine , and in collodion , in the last vehicle the salts being prepared either as emulsions in fluid collodion or by the ordinary silver nitrate bath process .
In gelatine the salts were all * " Phil. Trans. " for 1881 : Part 3 .
166 Capt. Abney .
On the Effect of the [ Dec. 15 , prepared as emulsions ; when in paper they were prepared by soaking ' it in a soluble haloid salt , and floating on solution of silver nitrate The question of the production of sensitive silver haloid salts on a metallic silver plate I have left to be considered later , since it has no direct bearing on the points I wish to discuss in this communication .
Exposures.\#151 ; When it was desired to obtain the expression of the action of the spectrum by its direct effect without the intermediary .of a developer , the slit of the spectroscope was opened to a width of To 'f an inch , and the exposure prolonged for five to twenty minutes .
When the effects had to be shown by development the slit was closed to -g"S"o of an inch , and exposure given varying between ^ second and .one minute or even two minutes .
By having a shutter at the slit of the spectroscope it was easy to give two exposures on the same plate or paper , using half the length of the slit for each exposure .
This was excessively convenient , since it allowed the different phenomena arising from different methods of exposure to be accurately compared together .
The principle on which the exposures were given was as follows:\#151 ; 1st .
An exposure was given to the plate , when a pale solution of chromate of potash so dilute as to cut off the spectrum above E , was placed in front of the slit .
This exposure was in all cases prolonged in order to see if there was any action produced , however feeble , by the spectrum remaining unabsorbed .
The next exposure was always taken with the slit unshaded , and on the same plate ( or paper ) as the first exposure .
After a certain interval of time had elapsed , the yellow chromate was again placed in front of the slit , and the exposure continued .
The reason for adopting this plan was that the effect of diffused white \#166 ; light ( diffused from the prisms during unshaded exposure ) would thus be differentiated .
Thus , supposing it was found that the first exposure caused no sign of a change in the sensitive salt by the \#166 ; exposure to the spectrum unabsorbed by the chromate , but that the unshaded spectrum caused an action on these parts , it would be evident that the action of diffused light had played a part in causing such an notion .
When such phenomena resulted , plates or papers were first exposed bo the unshaded spectrum through the chromate solution , then withdrawn from the camera and exposed to the diffused light of the laboratory for a fraction of a second , or for eight or ten seconds , according as the experiment was to be conducted by development or by .direct printing action , and again inserted in the slide and exposed to the action of the partially .
absorbed spectrum .
If the experiments were rightly conducted , the results of the last two should be confirmatory of the first two exposures .
Other plates or papers were then exposed , giving , unshaded , one half of the slit of a short period , and the other half for a period ten to twenty times as long .
By this system all the phenomena met with could be differentiated and traced .
1881.1 Spectrum on the Haloid Salts of Silver , Localities of Maximum Action.\#151 ; I have followed the usual custom of writers ou this subject , and shown the top of my curves as the place of TUQ-ri\#153 ; 11\#153 ; action .
Although this correctly shows what .appears on the photographic plate , yet in all cases it is apt to give a false notion regarding the effect of the spectrum .
If we look at the energy of the spectrum in its different localities , we find that it rapidly decreases as it approaches the violet and ultra-violet .
If this diminution of energy be taken into account , it will be found that usually the point of maximum effect nearest the violet indicates the region where the absorption of the rays becomes total , and that the shading off towards the ultra-violet is really only due to the diminished .energy of that part of the spectrum .
In other cases , as , for instance , where there are two maxima , this will not apply to the second maximum .
Silver Iodide .
Visible Effect of the Spectrum on Silver Iodide.\#151 ; If paper be soaked in a 10 per cent , solution of potassium iodide and dried , and then be floated on a 10 per cent , solution of silver nitrate and exposed whilst moist , * the spectrum will be impressed in five minutes , as given in fig. 1 , where it will be seen that the whole visible spectrum is impressed .
Similar paper if exposed to the spectrum coming through a weak solution of potassium chromate , exhibits after ten minutes a slight action in the least refrangible region ( fig. 3 ) .
If , however , the paper be exposed for ten seconds to diffused light and then be exposed to the same spectrum as the last the action is more intense than before , though the exposure be for only two minutes ( fig. 2 ) .
From this we learn that part of the action of the spectrum in fig. 1 is due to the action of diffused light .
It next remained to trace the action on the different silver compounds existing in this paper , which was ordinary sized saxe paper .
Paper was prepared as before , but washed in common water till mearly all excess of silver nitrate was eliminated , and it was then given a wash of potassium nitrite , an absorbent of iodine .
Such paper was exposed to the spectrum , first , coming through chromate , second , unshaded .
The print obtained is that shown in fig. 4 , by which it will be seen that the same limits were reached as before , but that there is not that abrupt descent of sensitiveness near Gr ; evidently some cause of the extreme sensitiveness near this point had been eliminated , and apparently that could only be the silver nitrate and the presence of the potassium nitrite .
To test the matter further , paper was prepared in the same manner , but before applying the potassium nitrite it was soaked in common salt and water and washed .
This would effectually remove all traces of silver nitrate * The same action was observed where the paper was allowed to dry , but the 'darkening was less .
VOL. XXXIII .
N 168 Capt. Abney .
On the Effect of the [ Dec. 15r converting it into silver chloride .
Exposure for five minutes to the spectrum gave the result shown in fig. 5 , in which it will he seen that whilst the most refrangible portion took a grey colour , the small portion below G became a pink , the line of demarcation between the two being well defined .
It now seemed probable that the pink part of the-spectrum was due to the chloride and the grey to the iodide .
To further investigate the matter , the same , paper without iodide was floated on silver nitrate and exposed to the spectrum , with the result given in fig. 6 , a very faint trace of action being visible where the paper was exposed for a quarter of an hour to the spectrum transmitted by the potassium chromate .
Iodised paper prepared as in the first experiment was well washed and simply exposed with the result to be seen in fig. 7 .
Finally , paper was prepared and washed , then immersed in a weak solution of potassium iodide , washed well and flooded with potassium nitrite , and the result is given in fig. 8 .
Now , fig. 1 coincides with the observations made by Sir J. Herschel , on paper similarly prepared , in 1842 , and described in the " Phil. Trans. " for 1843 , and he classes this spectrum as due to the silver iodide .
It will be seen that the printed spectrum due to silver iodide is that given in fig. 8 , and that the tail extending to the least refrangible end is really due to the action of that region on the organic salt ( and perhaps chloride ) of silver present in the paper .
Further , it will be seen that the greater part of the darkening in fig. 1 of that tail is due to the action of the different rays after or whilst diffused light has acted or is acting on that organic compound .
Confirmatory experiments were made with pure silver iodide in collodion with excess of silver nitrate , and also without such excess , with the result shown in fig. 8 .
If further confirmation were required , it was only necessary to add to a film of collodion containing the iodide and excess of silver nitrate a small trace of organic matter , such as resin or albumen , and the result given in fig. 9 was obtained .
Thus , then , we may say that the parts of the spectrum capable of direct action on silver iodide are shown in fig. 8 .
The next point to which my attention was turned was to ascertain the true region of the spectrum which was active on silver iodide when developed .
There are several developers for silver haloids:\#151 ; f 1st .
Ferrous sulphate and silver nitrate .
Acid developers . .
\lt ; 2nd .
Pyrogallic acid , , " [ 3rd .
Gallic acid , , " Neutral organic iron f 4th .
Ferrous oxalate .
developers ... ... \ 5th .
Ferrous citro-oxalate .
Alkaline developers 6th .
Pyrogallic acid and ammonia .
1881 .
] Spectrum on the Haloid Salts of Silver , fyc .
H 7v G F E \amp ; " ^tv I I Hi 1 HI H H 1 1 H H H 1 Hj 1 HI 1 H 1 ||l \#166 ; )( ] 1 1 wri 1 1 Hi LgI+AgN03 on paper ... Print .
t \#171 ; 91 \gt ; 9 Print .
Print .
gl on paper washed from Print .
excess of AgN03 and treated with KNOa .
gl on paper washed from Print .
AgNOs soaked in NaCl , washed from excess and exposed with KNOa .
iper floated on AgNO , ... Print .
excess of AgN03 , ruddy tint .
excess of AgNOs , treated with KI and KN02 ; or Agl in collodion .
rf+AgNOg in albumen ... Print , LAgl prepared in hath treated Developed I with KI , washed , redipped ( long in silver hath , developed exposure ) , with pyrogallic acid .
itto ditto ... ... ... ... ... . .
( short exposure ) .
presence of sensitiser , de- ( long veloped by acid or alkaline exposure ) , developer .
Ltto ditto ... ... ( short exposure ) .
developed as above .
ditto ( long exposure ) .
( short exposure ) .
AgBr , developed by acid or ( long alsaline method .
exposure ) .
ditto ( short exposure ) .
collodion , or oh paper washed , acid development .
collodion , or on paper washed , ferrous citrate developer .
posure .
N 2 170 Capt. Abney .
On Effect of the [ Dec. 15 , Now , the first three gave precisely similar results as did the last three .
It will , therefore , be unnecessary for me to state for every experiment which developer was used .
With collodion or gelatine plates I preferred the 2nd and the 4th developers , and with paper the 3rd and the 5th .
It may be necessary to point to the different materials employed .
In the first place very pure potassium iodide was obtained by Stas 's method , and as much as would dissolve was put into collodion ; by the free use of water with the alcohol as much as 4 grs. was dissolved .
This was employed with a silver bath prepared in the usual way , containing 35 grs. of silver nitrate to each ounce of water .
5 grs. of commercial cadmium iodide was dissolved in an ounce of collodion , and this was also used with a silver nitrate sensitising bath .
The pyroxylin forming the collodion was carefully selected .
Before taking into use it had been precipitated from solution by water , washed in alcohol , again precipitated , and washed and dried , and then redissolved in equal parts of pure ether and alcohol at the rate of 7 grs. to each ounce .
Such a solution after prolonged exposure when impregnated with nitrate of silver gave no reduction of the salt .
The emulsions of silver iodide were made by dissolving 6 grs. of silver nitrate in alcohol , adding this to collodion , and gently adding the equivalent to 5 grs. of silver nitrate of the soluble iodide ( dissolved in alcohol ) to it .
This formed a .perfect emulsion of silver iodide in the presence of a slight excess of silver nitrate , and also of course of the soluble nitrates formed by the double decomposition of the above .
I may at once say that the presence or absence of these soluble nitrates had no effect at all on the results , and may at once be dismissed from further consideration .
Gelatine emulsion was prepared in the same manner , keeping in mind , however , that in this case it was prepared with an excess of soluble iodide instead of silver nitrate .
It is well to remark that it is impossible to get a fine emulsion ' of silver iodide in collodion unless the plan indicated above be followed of first dissolving the silver nitrate in the collodion and then adding the iodide to that , in addition to which it is necessary that the silver nitrate be in excess or the emulsion becomes granular .
With gelatine the emulsification is an easier matter , but in order to prevent spontaneous decomposition of the gelatine it is necessary that the soluble iodide be in excess .
Emulsions of both kinds were " washed " by the usual methods known to photographers .
In the case of the collodio-iodide of silver great care was taken that nothing but pure distilled water was employed .
It will be well to show here how it was we ascertained that nothing but pure iodide of silver exists in a film .
The impurities to be met with are oxides , chlorides , and bromides .
Now when an oxide of silver , or silver chloride or bromide is placed in a solution of potas- 1881 ] Spectrumou the Haloid Salts of , fc .
sium or other soluble iodide , the silver compound is at once decomposed , and silver iodide formed in its place .
If , then , a film of iodide of silver in collodion ( whether prepared from an emulsion or by the bath process ) be washed from silver nitrate , and be then immersed in a weak solution of potassium iodide ( it must not be strong or it will dissolve out the silver iodide from the film ) or other soluble iodide , it may be seen that there will be nothing but silver iodide in the film , all impurities being decomposed .
If the film be washed well with distilled water , and again immersed in the bath , or flowed over with some sensitiser , such as potassium nitrite , sodium sulphite , beer , pyrogallic acid , \amp ; c. , it may be exposed with the certainty that only pure silver iodide is under examination .
It was necessary to make these remarks , since the whole of the utility of the research depends on the use of the pure substance , the collodion being absolutely inert as regards the silver salt .
The silver iodide emulsion made from the purified potassium iodide proved to contain nothing but the pure iodide , but that prepared with the cadmium and other iodides , as will be seen , proved untrustworthy as to purity .
It was owing to this that I was led into a mistake in a paper which appeared in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society , " wherein I stated that owing to the oxygen-absorbing properties of potassium nitrite , I was able to obtain an image lower than ordinary .
It seems now that this may have been due to a contamination of bromide or chloride , or to the formation of silver nitrate , any of which would have given me the same results .
One word also as to the neutral or alkaline developer employed .
It has been customary to state that silver iodide is unamenable to alkaline development .
This is , however , not the case .
The ferrous oxalate and the ferrous citro-oxalate bring out a distinct image , as does pyrogallic acid and ammonia , when no restraining iodide is employed .
In all dry plates prepared with the iodide and other silver haloids , the iodide is developable ( though it gives a weakly image compared with that due to other salts ) by the alkaline or organic iron developer .
A plate was coated with cadmium iodised collodion , and placed in the bath for a couple of minutes , and exposed to the spectrum .
The top half of the slit was uncovered for one second , the bottom half for ten seconds ; the results are seen in figs. 14 and 15 .
The development took place by the acid developer .
Plates similarly prepared and washed , and then , similarly exposed , also gave as results figs. 14 and 15 .
When using ferrous oxalate , the cadmium emulsion also gave the same result .
Plates coated with a film of the same collodion , washed , and then immersed in a weak solution of potassium iodide or cadmium iodide , again washed clean with distilled water , and finally treated with silver nitrate , beer , pyrogallic acid , potassium Capt. Abney .
On Effect of the [ Dec. 15 , nitrite , when developed by the acid or other methods , gave the results in figs. 10 and 11 .
The purification of silver iodide by this treatment cut off the small tail on the least refrangible side of G seen in fig. 14 .
When the pure silver iodide prepared by the aid of the pure potassium iodide was used , figs. 13 and 12 resulted .
A plate was next coated with collodion iodised with the pure potassium iodide , immersed in the bath , washed , and then placed in a solution of common salt ( 1 gr. to 5 oz. ) , with the result that figures similar to figs. 16 and 17 were obtained .
A plate similarly treated , except that potassium bromide was substituted for the common salt , gave as a result figs. 16 and 17 .
There was no marked difference whether the plate was developed by the acid developer or by the ferrous oxalate .
It would be useless to describe the many other experiments which were made , all tending to prove that the true action of the spectrum on silver iodide in collodion is that given in figs. 10 and 11 .
No deviation from it has been obtained , unless impurity in the pyroxyline or in the soluble iodide was proved to exist .
With gelatine emulsions of yellow silver iodide , when rendered sensitive by the use of potassium nitrite or silver nitrate , the same action was found to hold good , and the same may be said for plates prepared with albumen as a vehicle , when all the silver was converted into iodide , and the sensitising was effected by potassium nitrite or some other similar sensitiser .
We next come to the iodide of silver when held in situ by paper .
The same method of preparation was adopted as that given above for the printing experiments .
When paper was exposed with the excess of silver nitrate , on acid development fig. 18 was obtained .
When developed by an organic ferrous developer , fig. 19 was obtained ; figs. 14 and 15 were obtained when similar paper was washed and salted with common salt , and washed again , and then sensitised with potassium nitrite .
Figs. 18 and 19 are worthy of attention .
It is seen in fig. 18 that the iodide has much greater power of attracting freshly deposited silver than have the impurities present with it in the paper .
On the other hand , fig. 19 shows that the ferrous oxalate developer has more power of reducing the impurity ( or rather the reduction is better seen ) than it has the iodide .
When silver iodide paper is prepared and washed , and treated with a weak solution of potassium iodide and resensitised by potassium nitrite , figs. 10 and 11 are obtained .
Fig. 20 shows the action of the spectrum on pure iodide when the exposure is very prolonged .
It appears as if the sensitiveness on the more refrangible side of G had diminished .
This is not the case , however .
The prolonged exposure causes a commencement of what is 1881 .
] Spectrum on the Haloid Salts of Silver , called a reversal of the image due to oxidation , which I have already investigated in the " Philosophical Magazine , " 1880 , and the maximum effect has , therefore , apparently shifted to the least refrangible side of Gr as shown .
This is important , since phenomena which have been described and figured by other investigators can be shown to be caused by this reversing action .
I shall have to allude to it myself again What has been noted regarding the action of impurities in the silver iodide points to a method of ascertaining if an iodide or iodine itself is pure .
It is believed that the merest trace of impurity may be recognised by this method of spectrum analysis .
Silver Bromide .
When paper is immersed in a 10 per cent , solution of potassium bromide , then dried and floated on a 10 per cent , solution of silver nitrate , and exposed to the action of the spectrum , the visible effect will be observed as shown in fig. 21 .
Pigs .
22 and 23 show the action \#166 ; of the spectrum after filtration through potassium chromate , the former being what is observed after a preliminary exposure to diffused white light , ' and the latter when the paper has only seen the yellow light .
It is needless to go into all the details which were described when silver iodide paper was under examination .
The same causes exist for the shape of the curve as they do with the latter paper .
It may be interesting to remark that the spectrum observed on paper which has been washed and treated with potassium bromide after sensitising is the same as that shown in fig. 25 , whilst when only washed and not treated with the soluble bromide it takes the form of fig. 29 .
The reason of these differences in shape of curve is apparent when it is remembered how the effects on silver iodide paper were traced to their source .
It must be noted that there are several molecular modifications of silver bromide .
The first is that form in which it exists in the paper and also in collodio-bromide emulsions when prepared in the ordinary way ; also when prepared in collodion by the bath .
This form transmits a yellow-orange tint when white light traverses it .
Another form is one which I described in the Bakerian Lecture for 1880 , viz. a form which transmits a blue-green tint ; and a last form which transmits a grey tint , which is found in gelatine emulsions which have been boiled , or treated with ammonia in the manner which is common at the present day .
These three varieties were examined both for the visible action of light and also for development .
A plate was coated with the first emulsion named , with the result that the direct action of light gave fig. 25 .
The blue-green transmitting form gave fig. 24 .
This form is one which is sensitive to the infra-red rays of the spectrum on development , and it will be seen that the printing 174 Capt. Abney .
On the Effect of the [ Dec. 15r action also extended to that region .
The printing action on the grey-form ( which was submitted to the spectrum in a film of gelatine ) is shown in fig. 26 .
On comparing these together , it will be seen that the maximum action commences between Gr and F ( nearer F than Gr)r and that the main difference in their impressed spectra lies in the tails LgBr+AgN03 , on paper ... Print* \#187 ; \gt ; " \#187 ; . .
Print , t9 9S ... .
Print , reen AgBr in collodion with Print .
or without AgN08 .
range AgBr in collodion Print .
gelatine with or without AgNOg .
rrey AgBr in gelatine ... Print .
gBr on paper washed from Developed AgNOs , developed with acid ( long or ferrous citro-oxalate de- exposure ) , veloper .
dtto ditto ... ... ( short exposure)* rey AgBr in gelatine , deve- Developed loped alkaline or ferrous ( long oxalate .
exposure ) .
dtto ditto ... ... ( short exposure)* .
range AgBr in collodion or Developed gelatine , developed alkaline ( long ferrous oxalate or acid de- exposure ) , veloper .
\gt ; itto ditto ... ... ( short exposure ) .
rreen AgBr in collodion , Developed 1 developed ferrous oxalate .
( long exposure)* .
1 m \gt ; itto ditto ... ... ( short exposure)* 'M m on the least refrangible side .
When the colour transmitted by these three forms is taken into account , these differences are to be expected .
Whether the silver bromides were exposed with a slight excess of silver nitrate , or with a slight excess of soluble bromide , no difference in the spectra resulted .
We next come to spectra developed on the different preparations of 1881 ] Spectrum on the Holoicl Salts of , silver bromide .
Fig'- 27 represents the action of the spectrum on silver bromide paper , prepared as above , which has been washed .
Whether development took place by acid developer or by ferrous citro-oxalate , no difference was observable .
Fig. 28 shows the same with a short exposure .
When the paper was washed and treated with potassium bromide and then exposed , we have as a result figs. 31 and 32 .
The slight difference in the pairs of figures results from the presence in one case of inorganic matter combined with silver , and in the other case its absence . .
When a plate is coated with collodion containing cadmium bromide , zinc bromide , or potassium bromide , and placed m a strong silver nitrate bath , and developed with either acid developer or with ferrous citro-oxalate , we get curves similar to figs. 31 and 32 .
The same figuies also represent the action of the spectrum on collodio-bromide emulsions transmitting orange light by any kind of development .
This applies equally whether the plate be exposed wet or dry , or whether exposed in the presence of silver nitrate or other inorganic sensitisers .
Figs. 29 and 30 show the results obtained when using gelatine bromide plates with the silver bromide in the grey molecular state , whether exposed with an inorganic sensitiser , or without , and whether developed with an acid , alkaline , or organic iron developer .
Figs. 33 and 34 represent the action on the blue-green molecular form of silver bromide in collodion , when developed and exposed under similar circumstances to the preceding case .
It will be remarked that the direct visible action of the spectrum and the developed image coincide .
The effect of impurity in the bromide is not so marked as it is in the iodide .
The presence of iodide except in minute quantities is rare ; the haloid most frequently present as an impurity being the chloride .
When the spectrum on the chloride is considered , it will be seen that such an impurity is hardly possible to be detected , as the spectra impressed on it are somewhat similar in general character to those on the bromide .
Silver Chloride .
Paper was impregnated with a 10 per cent , solution of sodium chloride and sensitised on a 10 per cent , solution of silver nitrate .
Paper thus prepared was exposed to the spectrum in a damp state , and also in a dry state , and the visible impression recorded .
Fig. 35 shows the action .
When the paper was exposed for twenty seconds to diffused light a different curve as shown in fig. 36 was found ; an approach to the same curve being also shown with very prolonged exposure without the preliminary action of light .
This is probably due to the action of the diffused light in the prism.* * I have not taken into consideration the spectrum impressed on silver chloride Capt. Abney .
O the Effect of the [ Dec. 15 Similar paper was washed , some was used in this state and other was afterwards treated with a solution of sodium chloride and again washed , leaving thus only a trace of an organic salt of silver in^the fibre .
The action of the spectrum on the simply washed paper is shown in fig. 37 .
With a short preliminary exposure , traces of an impression between F and C were obtained , tending to show that the preliminary action in fig. 36 was effective on the chloride besides on the organic compound of silver .
Fig. 38 gives the action of the spectrum in the chloride which had all traces of silver nitrate removed by the wash of sodium chloride .
To obtain an emulsion of silver chloride in collodion , 20 grains of calcium chloride were dissolved in 1 oz. of collodion , and 1 gr. more , or 1 gr. less , according as excess or defect of silver nitrate was required , than the equivalent of silver nitrate dissolved in another ounce of collodion ; the former solution was poured in the later , shaking at intervals , till a perfect emulsion was obtained .
In some cases the emulsion was washed in the ordinary way known to photographers , and in others used when made as above , and the films washed or exposed in their natural state .
In no case did any difference in the resulting impression of the spectrum appear .
I may also state that .other chlorides were tried , and there is no apparent difference from those obtained where sodium chloride was employed .
Fig. 38 also gives the action of the spectrum on such emulsion , there being no apparent difference between the washed emulsion or the emulsion exposed with an excess of silver nitrate , or with an excess of the soluble chloride , unless it be one of general sensitiveness .
In other words , the spectrum seemed to act on the silver chloride in one and the same manner .
Fig. 39 shows the printing action on the chloride when enveloped in gelatine .
The emulsion was formed in the usual manner habitual amongst photographers , each ounce of emulsion containing about 25 grs , of converted silver nitrate .
Fig. 39 has reference to this emulsion after it was heated to its boiling point for half an hour , and when treated with ammonia ; when used unboiled it took an impression similar to fig. 38 .
hen these same preparations of the chloride in gelatine are exposed for a short time to the spectrum and developed with ferrous citro-oxalate developer , or with gallic acid and silver , we get figs. 42 , 43 , 44 and 45 , the first two expressing the result of the unboiled emulsion which transmits yellow-orange light , and the two latter numbers that on the boiled emulsion which transmits a blue-grey light .
visibly darkened by the light .
This , as is well known , is impressed throughout the spectrum , and takes the approximate colour of the spectrum .
This is true whatever vehicle is used to hold the silver chloride , and also whether exposed in the presence of an excess of silver nitrate or other sensitiser , and also when organic compounds of silver are mixed with it .
1881 .
] Spectrum on the Haloid Salts of , 8fc .
AgCl+AgKO , on paper Print , AgCl+AgNOa on p^per , slight Print .
preliminary exposure .
[ AgCl on paper washed from Print .
excess of AgN03 .
AgCl on paper washed and Print .
treated with NaCl and washed again , also collodio chloride of silver , also yellow form of AgCl in gelatine .
Grey form of AgCl in gela- Print .
time .
AgCl in collodion in presence Developed of excess of AgNOs or NaCl ( long developed ; ferrous citrate , exposure ) , or acid development .
Ditto / ditto ... ... ( short exposure ) .
Yellow form of AgCl in gela- Developed time acid or ferrous citro- ( long oxalate development .
exposure ) .
Ditto ditto ( short exposure ) .
Qrey form of AgCl in gelatine , Developed acid , or ferrous citro-oxalate ( long development .
exposure ) .
Ditto ditto ( short exposure ) .
AgCl in collodion given a Developed .
short preliminary exposure , acid , or ferrous citro-oxalate development .
AgI + AgBr+AgN03onpaper , Print .
moist .
Agl+AgBr , washed from Print .
AgNOa .
Ditto , ditto , developed ferrous Developed .
citro-oxalate .
Agl + AgBr + AgNOs , wet Developed .
plate , developed acid , or alkaline developer .
Agl 4-AgBr in gelatine , deve- Developed .
loped ferrous oxalate .
AgBr4* Agl in collodion , acid Developed or alkaline developer .
( long exposure ) .
ditto Ditto 3AgI+AgBr , on paper Developed ( short exposure ) .
Print .
Capt. Abney .
On Effect of the [ Dec. 15 , The first numbers of these pairs of figures show the result of exposures ten times longer than the exposures shown by the second numbers of the pairs .
Silver chloride in collodion by whatever means prepared , and whether exposed with an excess of silver nitrate , or an excess of soluble chloride , gave figs. 40 and 41 , the former being the result of exposure ten times longer than that shown by the latter .
The mode of development had no effect on the spectrum developed .
The washed paper gave on development the same result as that shown for the direct action of light , viz. , fig. 37 .
The mode of development had no effect on the result .
The washed paper subsequently treated with a solution of sodium chloride and again washed , when exposed to the spectrum gave on development with either gallic acid , and silver nitrate , or with ferrous citro-oxalate , the same figure as that obtained by the direct action of light , viz. , fig. 38 .
When a brief preliminary exposure to white light was given to either the paper or the different emulsions , fig. 46 was obtained on development .
On looking at figs. 35 to 46 it will be seen that invariably the maximum intensity is reached between H and li .
According to many authors the maximum is near G , whilst , according to others , it is in the ultra-violet .
I have carried out about 200 experiments on the chloride with sunlight and with the electric light , and in no case have I found it possible to alter the maximum .
Of course if candle or gas light be used as a source the maximum will be about G , since the ultra-violet rays are almost absent with these .
The idea suggests itself that the prismatic arrangements employed may be at fault ; in some cases where the most definite results have been registered , a direct vision spectroscope has been utilised .
I need hardly say that such an arrangement , from the very nature of the apparatus , is unsuited for photo-spectroscopy .
Such a spectroscope transmits very few rays beyond H , and at H their intensity is much diminished .
In order to settle the matter to my own satisfaction , I used a diffraction grating with the same results as those shown in the figures under consideration .
In a paper read before the British Association in August last , I pointed out the great need of caution in measuring daylight intensity by the chloride , and my subsepuent examination of the subject has more than ever confirmed me in my opinion therein given .
Methods of obtaining Mixtures of Silver Iodide and Bromide , Silver Iodide and Chloride , 8fc .
To test mixtures of the iodide and bromide , paper was prepared by immersing it in a solution of potassium iodide and potassium bromide , the proportion of each being so arranged that there should 1881.1 Spectrum on the Haloid Salts of Silver , fyc .
be definite proportions between each , supposing that each salt was entirely decomposed by the silver nitrate .
Unfortunately this is never absolutely the case , and hence the results obtained with the paper must be received with some caution .
Chemists know that silver bromide or silver chloride cannot exist in the presence of a soluble iodide , nor can silver chloride in presence of a soluble bromide .
Hence when we have an iodide and bromide impregnating paper , the silver iodide will first be formed , and then the bromide ; or , again , with iodide and chloride , the silver iodide will first be formed and then the chloride ; and , finally , with bromide and chloride , the bromide will first be formed and then the chloride .
It was necessary to make these remarks , as a right conception of the results might not be taken on casually looking at them .
The same remarks apply with equal force when a sensitive film of the double salts is prepared by the ordinary silver bath when very short immersion is given to the plate .
The only true way of obtaining definite results seems to be by means of separate emulsions , in which a definite amount of soluble chloride , bromide , or iodide is fully converted into silver chloride , bromide , or iodide , and then to mix these emulsions , after proper washing , in the required proportions .
It was in this manner that the emulsions which will be discussed presently were prepared .
I would here call attention to a somewhat remarkable behaviour of silver iodide .
It is well known that if silver iodide be prepared with an excess of soluble iodide , it is totally insensitive to light .
Thus if we prepare ( say ) an emulsion in collodion with an excess of iodide , and wash it thoroughly in the usual manner , and after redissolving the pellicle resulting from the washing operations , expose it in the camera , no amount of development will bring out an image .
If , however , to such an emulsion but a drop of a bromide or chloride emulsion be added sensitiveness will appear .
This seems to be due to the last trace of soluble iodide being converted into silver iodide .
Mixtures of Silver Iodide and Equal Equivalent Proportions of Iodide and Bromide:\#151 ; Paper was soaked in a solution of equivalent proportions of soluble iodides and bromides , and , after drying , was sensitised on a 10 per cent , solution of silver nitrate for such a time that the back of the paper became thoroughly damp .
The silver nitrate solution was acidified in order to prevent the formation of any sub-salts .
A strip of such paper was exposed to the spectrum whilst moist , and the printing action noted. .
The result is given in fig. 47 .
Similar paper was washed and treated with potassium nitrite , and exposed whilst moist ; the effect of the action of the spectrum is seen in the same figure .
Capt. Abney .
On the Effect of the [ Dec. 15 , Papei ' was next washed , and portions were treated with a solution of potassium bromide , and again washed .
Strips of these two specimens were dried and exposed to the spectrum , and in both cases the printing action is seen in fig. 48 .
Similar papers , in a moist state , were also exposed without any deviation of the result .
Again , paper which had been prepared as above was allowed to dry with the excess of silver nitrate on it , and exposed , and fig. 48 again approximately resulted ; as also it did when the washed paper treated with potassium nitrite was dried .
The difference between curves 47 and 48 is very remarkable , and at first sight might not seem to admit of explanation .
A study of the experiments described , however , affords a clue to the apparent incongruity of the results .
According to text-books on chemistry , bromine will displace iodine in combination , whilst iodide displaces bromide .
Later researches seem to modify the first statement to a certain extent .
Bromine will only displace a definite proportion of iodine when it is in excess ; but for our purpose we may take the text-book statement as practically correct .
When the paper was exposed wet with either silver nitrate or potassium nitrite ( I may remark that other halogen absorbents gave the same result ) the iodine and bromine liberated by the action of light would be at once absorbed by them ; in the one case silver iodide ( or bromide ) and silver iodate ( or bromate ) being formed , and in the other potassium iodide ( or bromide ) ; so that each of the two kinds of sensitive salt would have its full action .
When the paper was washed and exposed in a dry state the result would be different , and the question would arise , what would become of the iodine and bromine liberated by light ?
If silver iodide be exposed to light and treated with a trace of bromine , the sub-iodide combines with the bromine , and all trace of the action of light is destroyed .
Thus when the mixture of iodide and bromide is exposed to light , both iodine and bromine being liberated , the bromine will at once combine with the sub-iodide and destroy it .
Thus , Ago1 + Br=Ag2IBr , the only factor remaining being the sub-bromide , which is developable .
Now it maybe said that the iodine liberated should also destroy the sub-salts ; but it is a matter of fact that , in the presence of light , it has no power of destroying the sub-iodide , since it is immediately again shaken off from the molecule.* Iodine can destroy the subbromide molecule , and form a new saturated molecule ; thus , Ag2Br+ 1=Ag3BrI .
# [ At the same time it must be noted that the iodide is much less sensitive of light when no absorbent of iodine is present .
This is fully accounted for by the immediate recombination of , at all events , a portion of the iodine liberated with the sub-iodide molecule.\#151 ; Dec. 19 .
] 1881 .
] Spectrum on the Haloid Salts of , Sfc .
Whether the two molecules Ag2BrI and Ag3IBr have the same value is a moot point , but the evidence tends to show that such is the case .
If the equivalents of bromide and iodide were equal , that is , if the bromide and iodide of silver were equally distributed , supposing both the above actions took place , the locality of the spectrum in which the iodide and bromide are equally sensitive should show an almost entire destruction of a developable image , and also of a printed image .
This locality is doubtless about G , and when we come to analyse the curve in fig. 48 we see that there is very small effect about G , whilst there is au increased effect between G and F. Now , to test the matter further , paper prepared with washed silver bromide was exposed to light till it darkened thoroughly , and such paper was treated with a very dilute solution of iodine , and then exposed in the spectrum , with the result given in fig. 74 , in which it will be seen that the new molecule is more sensitive to the green between G and F than above G ; in fact , we have very little action comparatively at G and above it .
In this case we have then a paper prepared in which there is an absolute imitation of the action that takes place in the mixed iodide and bromide .
It cannot be said that by this treatment we have Ag2I3+Ag2Br3 , since the molecule formed by light is Ag2Br , and the addition of the iodine is simply to form Ag2BrI , which is very different from a simple mixture .
This experiment then 'seems to show that this new molecule is more sensitive to the blue-green than it is to the violet .
The point then comes as to how , when the original paper is exposed to the spectrum , we have not only a fall of sensitiveness at G and beyond it , but also a greater sensitiveness in the green .
Now % silver iodide , as has already been shown , is not in tho least sensitive to beyond a very small region below G ; therefore , in the green the only component of the mixture of bromide and iodide that can be acted upon is the bromide .
As we see when bromide is acted upon one atom of bromine is liberated from the molecule ; thus , Ag2Br3=Ag2Br+Br .
The liberated atom of bromine immediately attacks the molecule of iodide in its immediate neighbourhood and forms a new bromo-iodide molecule liberating iodine .
Thus Br+Ag2I2=Ag3IBr+1 , and the iodine either escapes or else forms the molecule Ag2BrI ; thus Ag2Br+1=Ag2BrI .
Here then it is probable that we have a new saturated molecule formed by the action of light , which on formation is susceptible of being acted on by light in its turn .
Whether iodine or bromine is 182 Capt. Abney .
On Effect of the [ Dec. 15 , liberated from this new molecule I am not at present prepared to state , but it is my belief that it is the iodine , since density in development by the alkaline method is readily obtained when experimenting with it .
To sum up , the difference in shape between curves 47 and 48 seems to depend on the destruction of the sub-iodide when formed , and its conversion into a new molecule , which is sensitive to the blue-green , the same new molecule being formed by the liberation of the bromine from the molecule of silver bromide when the sub-bromide is formed .
In the case of the paper which is dried in the presence of silver nitrate and potassium nitrite the same result occurs .
Bromine and iodine attack these salts when in a crystalline state with difficulty , and hence will in preference form the new molecules as before .
Fig. 49 shows the curve of washed paper when developed with fenous citro-oxalate , and nearly the same result is seen when the development proceeds by acid development , the difference being that the dip in the curve between Jt and G is less pronounced .
To illustrate this fuither , in Fig. oO we have the case of a collodion film containing equal parts of silver iodide and silver bromide and an excess of silver nitrate , the latter salt absorbing both the iodine and bromine liberated .
In fig. 52 we have the results obtained from the same film , but thoroughly washed from all excess of silver nitrate .
Whether the plates be developed by acid , alkaline , or an organic ferrous salt , the curves remain in all essential particulars the same .
In fig. 51 we have the curve resulting from the same mixture ( equal equivalent proportions ) held in gelatine when developed by ferrous oxalate or alkaline developer .
At first sight it might be said that this action is really due to the " reversing action " of light , of which I have treated in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society , " in 1878 , and in the " Philosophical Magazine for 1880 .
That this is not the case is shown by fig. 53 , in which the exposure was exceedingly short ; in fact , when very quick exposure was given the curve started at h and reached a maximum as shown in fig. 53 .
These results are exceedingly interesting and important .
There is a figure showing something somewhat similar in Vogel 's " Lehi'buch der Photographie , " Berlin , 1878 , but there is no explanation of the cause , nor has it been noticed by any other observer , as far as I am aware .
Three Parts of Iodide to One of Bromide.\#151 ; When we take three equivalents of silver iodide to one of bromide the curves are somewhat modified .
When washed paper prepared with the above proportions is allowed to print in the spectrum , we have the curve shown in fig. 54 .
When exposed damp in the presence of silver nitrate or other inorganic sensitiser , we have almost a facsimile of the curve in fig. 47 .
Washed paper developed with acid developer shows that the proportion of iodide is so large in comparison to the bromide that the sub1881 .
] Spectrum on the Haloid Salts of fyc .
183 iodide is not ) all destroyed , and we get the maximum corresponding with the maximum of pure silver iodide , fig. 55 .
The same paper developed with ferrous citrate shows a slight dip near G , fig. 56 .
The difference in 55 and 56 is seemingly due to the fact that silver iodide has more attractive power for precipitating metallic silver than has the bromide ( a fact which is well known ) and that the bromide is more amenable to reduction than is the iodide .
Figs. 57 and 58 are well worthy of attention , They are the results of the exposure of the same plate for different lengths of time to the spectrum .
It was prepared in the silver nitrate bath and exposed in the presence of free silver nitrate .
Taking fig. 57 alone , it might be supposed that we had a similar case to that which we have recently considered , since we find an extraordinarily ( apparent ) greater sensitiveness in the green than in the violet , and yet we have the image formed in the presence of an excess of silver nitrate , which would be against the theory I have promulgated .
Fig. 58 , however , clears up the discrepancy : the maximum is found to be at G , and in this case the dip in the curve of fig. 57 is caused by the reversing action alluded to .
Fig. 59 gives the curve obtained by the above mixture of three parts of iodide to one of bromide ; when emulsified in gelatine the bottom curve shows a short exposure , One Part of Iodide and Three of Bromide.\#151 ; We now come to a mixture of one part of silver iodide to three of bromide , I have not described the printed spectra since they correspond nearly with figs. 47 and 48 .
If we compare the curves in figs , 60 and 57 we see a strange simi-r larity between them , but if we take into consideration fig. 61 , which is that due to a short exposure on the same plate , we shall at once see that the dips about G are due to two different causes ; the dip in fig. 61 is caused by the formation of the new molecule .
Figs. 60 and 61 are also the curves shown by paper prepared with the above equivalents of iodide and bromide , and also of the same in collodion when developed by an organic ferrous salt .
When developed by acid development , the curve in the more refrangible region is a little more pronounced in character , Figs. 62 and 63 show the same equivalents emulsified in gelatine and developed by ferrous oxalate .
The different equivalent proportions of bromide to iodide , it will be noticed , show themselves in the curves more particularly when a comparison is made between figs. 51 , 59 , and 62 .
Mixture of Iodide and Chloride .
Three Equivalents of Iodide to One of Chloride.\#151 ; When paper is prepared with three equivalents of silver iodide to one of VOL. xxxiii .
o Capt. Abney .
On Effect of the [ Dee .
15 , 3AgI+AgBr on paper deye- Developed , loped gallic acid .
Ditto , developed ferrous Developed* citrate .
3Agl4-AgBr4-AgNOs collo- Developed dion , wet plate , acid or ( long alkaline developer .
exposure ) .
Ditto ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... .(short exposure ) .
Developed^ 3AgI+AgBr in gelatine , alka- ( long and line , or ferrous oxalate short j developer .
exposure shown ) .
| AgI+3AgBr on paper or in Developed \ collodion , ferrous citro- ( long | oxalate developer .
exposure ) .
Ditto ditto ( short I exposure ) .
Agl4-3AgRr in gelatine , fer- Developed| rous oxalate developer .
( long exposure)# !
Ditto ditto ( short \ exposure ) !
Agl 4- AgCl 4* AgN03 on Erint .
paper , or ditto washed , both dry .
[ 3AgI+AgCl+AgN03 wet , or Print .
3Agl4-AgCl4-KNOa wet .
Agl 4- AgCl 4- AgNOs , or Developed .
3AgI 4- AgCl 4- KNOa on paper , developed with gallic acid or ferrous citro-oxalate .
ashed 3 Agl4-AgCl on paper , Developed , ferrous citro-oxalate developer .
Agl 4-AgCl in gelatine , de- Developed .
veloped ferrous oxalate .
gl4-AgCl in gelatine , deve- Developed .
loped ferrous oxalate .
gl 4-3AgCl paper , washed .
Print .
Agl4-3AgCl4-AgNOs wet .
Print .
Agl 4-3AgCl in gelatine , or on Developed .
paper , developed with ferrous citro-oxalate or acid developer .
Agl 4- 3AgCl 4- AgNOs , acid Developed .
developer .
AgBr exposed to light treated Print and with I , exposed to spectrum , also developed .
1881.1 Spectrum on the Haloid Salts of , Sfc .
.chloride and washed and dried , or if exposed in the presence of dried silver nitrate or dried potassium nitrite , we have the curve shown in fig. 64 .
If , on the other hand , we have the same paper exposed moist , with silver nitrate or potassium nitrite we have the curve shown in fig. 65 .
The reasoning applied to the mixture of iodide and bromide applies with equal force here , the results being modified for the shift of maximum of the chloride which lies about 1 H/ i. In fig. 64 the most refrangible part of the spectrum as far as G- is ruddy , between G- and F a pink colour , and beyond that grey .
This difference in colour indicates ( as it does in all other photographed spectra where different colours are impressed or developed ) a difference of compound acted upon .
According to our theory the molecule acted on beyond G in the violet and ultra-violet would be Ag2I2+AgICl , and between G and E Ag2ICl+Ag2Cl2 alone .
The grey here is probably due to the organic silver compound formed in the paper .
Fig. 66 shows the same equivalents if contained in paper or \#166 ; collodion , and when exposed to light in the presence of moist silver nitrate or other inorganic sensitiser and developed by acid or ferrous citro-oxalate developer , the slight modification due to the former developer noted above still holding good .
Fig. 67 shows the same paper or collodion emulsion washed and developed with ferrous citro-oxalate .
Fig. 68 shows the same when emulsified in gelatine .and developed with the same ferrous developer .
There is a difference in the curves obtained with collodion and gelatine , but not more than is explainable by the fact that the former is essentially porous and the latter almost continuous .
One Equivalent of Iodide to Three of Chloride.\#151 ; When three equivalents of silver chloride are taken with one of iodide , we have , on printing a washed paper , the curve shown in fig. 70 ; exposing the same paper moist in the presence of silver nitrate we have fig. 71 ; the reasoning given when the mixture of bromide and iodide was under consideration holds good .
Figs. 72 and 73 show the same equivalents of sensitive salts held in paper , the former showing the action of development on washed salts and the latter on the same exposed in the presence of moist silver nitrate .
Fig. 69 shows the effect of the spectrum on equal proportions of the iodide and chloride when emulsified in gelatine .
Paper and also collodion films containing silver chloride were blackened in the light and treated with a solution of iodine till the darkening was obliterated , washed , and then exposed , with or without sensitisers ; we had nearly the same results on printing and on development as shown in fig. 74 , hence , it was thought useless to repeat the curve there shown .
( The same applies to darkened bromide treated with iodine , exposed to the spectrum and developed .
) O 2 186 Effect of Spectrum on Haloid Salts of Silver .
[ Dec. 15r This appears to be a confirmation of the view already propounded regarding the formation of a new .
molecule , in the case of the chloride and iodide the new molecule taking the form of Ag2ClI , as already indicated .
From these results we may observe that to obtain a compound sensitive to the green a mixture of iodide and bromide , or iodide and chloride , should be employed , the former in preference to the latter , since it is more sensitive .
The same sensitiveness to daylight with the former in gelatine plates can be obtained as when using pure bromide alone , the sensitiveness being preserved by a shift of the maximum to the green .
Mixtures of Silver Chloride and Bromide .
Thera is nothing special calling for remark in a mixture of these two sensitive salts .
The printed spectrum and the developed spectrum seem to be a combination of the spectra impressed on each individually , a slight prolongation towards the least refrangible end taking place .
Mixture of Silver Iodide , Bromide , and Chloride .
When these three salts are combined together we have spectra which are very similar to the spectra produced on iodide and chloride , or iodide and bromide , with a prolongation towards the red .
Concluding Bemarlcs .
In a paper read , in 1880 , before the Photographic Society of Great Britain , I recommended the addition of a small quantity of iodide to the bromide used in the preparation of gelatine emulsion .
On carefully examining spectra photographed on such plates ( having tV P\amp ; rt of iodide to of bromide ) I find traces of the loss of sensitiveness about G. I stated also that addition of iodide diminished the sensitiveness of the bromide to the red rays ; an examination of curves given for the mixtures of bromide and iodide of silver bears out my statement .
It will be noticed that I have not touched upon organic sensitisers of the haloids , prepared with an excess of silver and then washed , and such sensitiser applied .
I have only treated of the haloids themselves , endeavouring to eliminate every extraneous effect which would modify the action of the spectrum .
I purpose in a subsequent communication to enter into this part of the subject .

