360 Mr. W. K. Parker on the Skull of Salmo salar .
[ May 30 , Cornea .
in .
( vertical if1 Ehea amen- J lateral f J cana .
, ... ... .
j { r vertical if Phcenicopterus J antiquorum 1 lateral ^ l more r if Aptenodytes | Humboldtii Sclerotic .
Lens .
lateral if ant.-post , if lateral f# in lateral if lateral A Ciliary Muscle .
Elastic ligament .
Posterior .
in .
tV fibres long .
tV ant.-post .
gradually diminishing .
lateral A Ar ant.-post .
ant.-post .
-^r gradually di I minishing .
in .
vw A Anterior , in .
A The Society then adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday , May 30 .
May 30 , 1872 .
GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Bakerian Lecture was delivered by William Kitchen Parker , P.R.S. , " On the Structure and Development of the Skull of the Salmon ( Salmo , L. ) .
" The following is an Abstract .
A few years ago Mr. Waterhouse Hawkins put into my hands some newly hatched salmon and also three of the first summer .
Seeing their fitness for embryological research and the interest attaching to the formation of an osseous fish , I applied to my friends Messrs. Frank Buckland and Henry Lee , and these gentlemen most liberally supplied me with a large number of unhatched embryos and of the " fry " of this large fish . .
My last subject , the frog , being fairly out of hand , I set myself last summer to this newer and more easy task , \#151 ; more easy by far , for the translucency of the young salmon contrasts most favourably with the obscurity of the embryo frog .
I.found that the two types at the time of hatching did not start fairly , but that the salmon had hastened to finish its stage before emerging from the egg ; this , however , is partly in consequence of the difference ot the envelope in which the embryos are contained ; for in the salmon this is a leathery ^chorion , " and in the frog a mere gelatinous bleb .
Moreover , it soon became apparent that these two " Ichthyopsidans ar\#174 ; 1872 .
] Mr. W. K. Parker on the Skull of Salmo salar .
361 in nowise near akin to each other .
In the very first stage , where there is an essential agreement , in one important particular they greatly disagree ; for the embryo of the salmon has two arches in front of its mouth , while the tadpole has but one ; there is also an additional gill-arch in the osseous fish .
In the earliest stage of the salmon worked out by me I found a much more distinct condition of the parts than in frogs at the same stage ; the differentiation of the latter is obscure as compared with the fish , and this not merely because of the quantity of nigrum in the tissues of the former .
Then , in addition to other causes of obscuration , the mouth of the tadpole is strangely modified in harmony with its " suctorial " character and affinities ( showing a remarkable affinity to the mouth of a lamprey ) , so that a whole system of cartilages has to be eliminated from the lips before the mouth ( proper ) can be understood .
The labial system is slightly and slowly developed in the salmon , and its mouth is thus much more in harmony with that of the embryo reptile or bird than with that of the tadpole .
After the simple stage is passed , the development of the facial arches is very different in the two types , \#151 ; as different , indeed , as in any twro possible examples that could be given in the whole vertebrate group .
The facial arches behind the mouth now undergo segmentation ; first the hyoid , and then the mandibular .
The hyoid is cloven from top to bottom , and also has a single distal piece separated off .
At this stage we get an explanation of what is seen in certain rays , where the hyoid suspensorium is permanently double ; and also ascertain that this second postoral arch , which retains the anterior piece in relation to the skull as the great " hyomandibular " pier , does not need the saw of the transcendentalist to put it into proper relation to its surroundings .
Nature 's invisible wedge has done what was needed , and the supposed double rib turns out to be half a visceral arch .
On the whole , this second stage is extremely " Plagiostomous , " for the details of which I must refer to the jt main paper .
While in the egg the head of the embryo is flattened , and so twisted that one of the eyes ( it may be the left or the right ) looks upwards towards the " chorion , " the other having a visceral direction .
ihe facial bars , at first having all a simple sigmoid form , rapidly change towards the time of hatching , and , when the head gets free , the cerebral vesicles speedily swell , taking on the form so familiar to the embryologist ; and the head now gains the " mesocephalic flexure .
" After this an approach is made to the Teleostean type of structure ; but this is not done at a stride .
The intermediate condition is thoroughly Ganoid , " and , happily , comes in to explain the related structures of the older and newer " Orders .
" I am not aware that any stage of the heart *n^es^nes shows either the many valves of the " aortic bulb " or le intestinal spiral valve : this must be seen to ; yet if these never show 362 Messrs. C. M. Tidy and W. B. Woodman on Ammonia [ May 30 , themselves in the " fry " of the osseous fish , their absence does not affect the general skeletal morphology .
The salmon amongst fishes , like the fowl amongst birds , never attains to the greatest degree of special class-modification ; it remains , with a dentigerous maxillary , a ductus pneumaticus , a very chondrosteus state of the skull , and a very heterocercal tail .
Yet , from an ichthyological point of view , this fish is an immense height above the Sharks and Bays , and is far in advance , as a fish , of the whole group of " Ganoids .
" The results of the gradational study of the fish-forms by the zoologist , and of their secular study by the palaeontologist , are both in harmony with morphological facts .
Although the light obtained is but as the first streak of dawn , yet it is a pleasant light , and quite sufficient to show each kind of worker where and how to renew his own special toil .
I cannot close this brief abstract without remarking that my researches in these , the highest types of animals , seem to me to be in perfect accordance with the results obtained by long study of the very lowest , the Rhizopods\#151 ; namely , that they both yield increasing evidence in favour of the doctrine of Evolution .
Researches of this kind show what the life-processes can accomplish in the history of one individual animal , and also that the morphological steps and stages are not arbitrary , but take place in a manner in accordance with all that has of late been revealed to us of the gradation of types in the ages that are past .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " On Ammonia in the Urine in Health and Disease/ " By " .
Meymott Tidy , M.B. , Joint Lecturer on Chemistry and Medical Jurisprudence at the London Hospital ; and W , Bathurst Woodman , M.D. , Joint Lecturer on Physiology , and Assistant Physician to the London Hospital .
Communicated byT .
Blizard Curling , President of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society .
Received April 16 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The authors refer to the researches of Andrews , Clark , Neubauer and Vogel , and others on the presence of ammonia as a constant constituent of healthy urine , Neubauer regarding 108 grains per diem as the average normal excretion .
After numerous experiments , the authors regard this quantity as excessive , and suggest some reasons for this discrepancy .
The method adopted by the authors is as follows :\#151 ; The freshly passed urine is to be first diluted with a given bulk of distilled water , sufficient to destroy all apparent colour , a known quantity of the urine being taken in each case .
To these is to be added an excess

