On the Occurrence of Heterotypical Mitoses in Cancer .
By E. F. Bashford , M.D. , and J. A. Murray , M.B. , B.Sc. ( Communicated by J. Bose Bradford , M.D. , F.B.S. Received November 2 , \#151 ; Read November 23 , 1905 .
) [ Plates 5 and 6 .
] The present paper refers to a communication* made to the Royal Society in January , 1904 .
In that paper and its expansion , !
published later , we emphasised the significance of the zoological distribution of cancer ; we discussed the unique features of the processes responsible for the experimental transmission of carcinoma from one animal to another and the limitations to its successful attainment : we also published a series of figures depicting the characters of the nuclei of cancer cells during division , in the malignant new growths of fishes and mammals .
We shall give a different explanation of the mitoses we figured in our earlier communications as resembling the heterotypical mitoses of reproductive tissue .
We have found that those mitoses may be interpreted as somatic mitoses with longitudinally split chromosomes .
Their apparent heterotypical form is thus due to variations in the development of the achromatic figure , the peculiar form of the chromosomes and their mode of attachment to the spindle .
Our figures of heterotypical mitoses in cancer confirmed the observations of Farmer , Moore and Walker , communicated !
to the Royal Society at the preceding meeting , but we dissociated ourselves from their conclusions on the diagnostic value and the significance of the phenomenon .
The amount of chromatin entering into the equatorial plate of the dividing cells of human cancer had long been known to be subject to diminution ( von Hansemann , S 1893 ) , but the presence of heterotypical mitoses appeared to throw a new light on its occurrence and meaning .
We have pointed out that the characteristic changes accompanying the heterotypical mitosis in the reproductive tissues are absent from cancer cells undergoing what we regarded as this form of division , and that the want of correspondence extends to the stages which precede and follow it.|| We have * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 73 .
t First Scientific Report , \#163 ; *mcer Research Fund .
1 ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 72 .
' S ' Studien iiber die Spezificitat , den Altruismus und die Anaplasie der Zellen , ' Berlin , 1893 , etc. || Loc .
cit. , and ' Lancet,5 April 1 , 1905 .
On the Occurrence of Heterotypical in Cancer .
227 also illustrated some of the appearances simulating bivalent chromosomes , hut in reality conforming to the type met with in ordinary ( somatic ) karyokinetic cell-division.* In what follows we shall illustrate other sources of error on the basis of a renewed analysis of the preparations from which the figures of heterotypical mitosis in our previous papers were made and by other figures not yet published .
In the sexual cells of animals the heterotypical mitosis is preceded by a stage known as the " synapsis .
" In it the chromatin filament is split longitudinally and gathered into a rosette at one part of the nucleus , the nucleolus lying to one side and usually flattened against the nuclear membrane .
In this stage the chromosomes are believed to unite in pairs , thus giving rise in the equatorial plate of the heterotypical mitosis to bivalent chromosomes , half as numerous as those characteristic of ordinary somatic cells .
The examination of many sporadic and transplanted malignant new growths failed to reveal a corresponding sequence in their nuclei .
We therefore undertook a renewed analysis of the preparations of the stages in cell-division already figured from transplanted mouse tumours , and of other preparations resembling them , to determine whether or not their identification as heterotypical were justified .
We shall confine our statements mainly to five transplantable mouse tumours because they permit of control observations with varying methods of preservation and staining in a manner not possible with material from sporadic new growths ; but our remarks apply also to the figures we have published from sporadic tumours of the trout and cat .
Yon Hansemannj- has combated the statements on the presence of heterotypical mitoses in malignant growths , and ascribes the appearances figured to clumping of the chromosomes , and to pathological abnormalities in their form .
He adheres to his conclusion that the numerical diminution is not an exact halving of the normal number , but is irregular , and due to ( 1 ) asymmetrical mitosis , and ( 2 ) casting out and degeneration of chromosomes .
Hacker reproduced three of our figures in a paper in which he admitted the striking similarity to heterotypical mitosis , but suggested that adhesion of the chromosomes in pairs , J together with longitudinal splitting of the couples * Loc .
cit. t 1 Biolog .
Centralb .
, ' vol. 24 , 1904 ; vol. 25 , 1905 ; 4 Verhandl .
physiol .
Ges .
, ' Berlin , 1904 .
+ Hacker uses the term " heterotypical " in a purely morphological sense , and embraces in it the mitoses of the cells destined to give rise to the sexual products of Ascaris and the Oopepods .
In the latter he has shown that exposure to ether ( 'Anat .
Anzeiger , ' 1900 ) may cause all the cells of the developing egg to exhibit this modification ( viz. , cohesion of the chromosomes in pairs ) .
In the strict sense of the word , the term " heterotype is 228 Dr. E. F. Bashford and Mr. J. A. Murray .
[ Nov. 2 , thus produced , might account for the phenomena encountered in cancer .
The appearances in some preparations are explicable in the manner suggested by von Hansemann , * but all the forms of cell-division resembling the heterotypical mitoses of reproductive tissue cannot be accounted for in this manner .
Some of the nuclear divisions previously figured have been found on re-examination to be due to an artificial grouping together of distinct chromosomes .
Fig. 1 , reproducing at higher magnification fig. 3 of our Boyal Society paper , and fig. 27 of the First Scientific Beport of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund , affords an example of this source of confusion .
The chromosomes seem to be bivalent , to have the form of rings and loops .
This mitosis is not completely depicted in fig. 1 , the remainder of the chromosomes being in the next section .
The preparation has been carefully restained .
The result is shown in figs. 2 and 3 .
The " rings " and " loops " resolve themselves into a larger number of ordinary short chromosomes , split longitudinally .
The dense equatorial plate of the next section shows clearly the presence of many short chromosomes split longitudinally , and arranged in the manner described below .
The mitosis is therefore somatic , and not heterotypical .
The ordinary scheme of karyokinetic cell-division presents , in its phase of equilibrium ( amphiaster or equatorial plate ) , a series of Y-shaped loops with limbs of equal length , arranged around a central spindle and all lying in a plane at right angles to its axis .
This arrangement is by no means universal .
Some of the deviations are of great importance to a proper understanding of what occurs in cancer .
Frequently the limbs of the Y-shaped loops are of unequal length .
When this is the case the attraction fibres are relatively few in number and attached only to the apex of the V and its immediate vicinity , and therefore nearer one end of each chromosome than the other .
applied to the form of mitosis characteristic of the first ripening division of the spermatocytes of amphibia , as first described by Fleming .
In the Salamander , ring-shaped chromosomes , half as numerous as the longitudinally split chromosomes of somatic mitoses , are stretched out into elongated ellipses upon the spindle , giving rise to a barrel-shaped figure .
Chromosomes of similar form are associated with their numerical reduction in many animals and plants , but it must be borne in mind that different forms of chromosomes occur in the corresponding mitoses of some animals .
In Ascaris , e.g. , both ripening divisions appear to be effected by a longitudinal splitting of chromosomes arranged transversely on the spindle , and in others ring or loop chromosomes are never formed .
It was , of course , conceivable that reduction-divisions might occur in cancer by means of chromosomes unlike those in the reproductive tissues of the same animal .
The frequency of cells with diminished numbers of chromosomes led us to examine many tumours for evidence of their occurrence , but without result .
# i Biolog .
Centralb .
, ' vol. 24 , 1904 .
1905 .
] Occurrence of Heterotypical Cancer .
As a consequence the longer limb does not come to a position of equilibrium in the equatorial plane , but may take up one inclined to the axis of the achromatic figure .
When the attraction fibres are attached to the chromosomes in this manner in a cell of elongated form , the longer limbs may even come to lie parallel to the spindle axis , and nuclear divisions closely resembling lieterotypical mitoses may result .
In such mitoses pairs of distinct chromosomes whose longer limbs lie on opposite sides of the equator , while their apices are closely opposed , simulate bivalent chromosomes , cf.figs .
5 to 10 .
In polar view the apparent halving of the chromosome number due to superposition , and the unusual vertical extension of the free longer limbs , are even more deceptive ; unless the longitudinal splitting of the chromosomes is very clear , the resemblance to heterotypical mitoses may be almost perfect .
During the separation of the daughter chromosomes such nuclear divisions are especially deceptive , because the longer limbs adhere for some time after separation of the apices and short limbs .
Barrel-shaped forms result , in which the crowding together of the chromosomes renders their enumeration impossible , but at the same time conveys the impression of a diminution in their number .
A much more serious source of error results from individual differences in the size of the chromosomes in one and the same nucleus .
Montgomery* and Suttonf have drawn attention to this phenomenon in the sexual cells of invertebrates .
We have found it to be present also in many vertebrate mitoses .
When the chromosomes attain the position of equilibrium in the equatorial plate the smaller take up a position nearer the axis of the central spindle than the larger or more massive ones .
Seen in profile the larger may then completely screen the smaller from view , and lead to an underestimate of the chromosome number .
Normally , nuclear division takes place by means of bipolar mitosis distributing the halves of the chromosomes to two daughter nuclei .
An interesting abnormality results , when , from any cause , this segregation of the daughter elements does not take place .
This may either result from the centrosome , remaining single or , if after division of the centrosome , one only become attached to the chromosomes by the attraction fibres .
The chromosomes then remain in one group , but the daughter elements separate slightly from each other before combining to form one large nucleus , containing twice as many chromosomes as the mother nucleus .
This form of mitosis , known as a " monaster " ( from the presence of only one active attraction sphere ) has been * T. H. Montgomery , ' Proc. Acad. Not .
Sc. , Philadelphia , ' 1901 ; ' Biol. Bull .
, ' vol. 4 , 1903 .
t W. S. Sutton , ' Biol. Bull .
, ' vol. 4 , 1902 .
VOL. LXXVII.\#151 ; B. R Dr. E. F. Bashford and Mr. J. A. Murray .
[ Nov. 2 , studied and described in detail by Th.* and M.f Boveri in invertebrates : figs. 13 , 14 , and 15 , from a squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue ( human ) , represent a cell in this condition .
The nuclear membrane has disappeared , but there is no trace of radiations or centrosomes to be seen .
The chromosomes are arranged as a hollow sphere around a central clear area , and for the most part consist of two parallel daughter elements in different stages of separation .
Some chromosomes in which the separation ' of the daughter elements is least advanced have a horse-shoe shape .
In others , the daughter elements are parallel and widely separated .
In a few , the separation is incomplete , the ends only remain apposed , giving the appearance of rings .
In fig. 13 this cell has a striking resemblance to a heterotypical mitosis such as occurs in testis .
Its cytoplasm is clear and voluminous , and there are no intercellular bridges between it and the surrounding epithelial cells .
The number of chromosomes in the cell , however , is not diminished , but amounts to 45 to 50 when both sections are examined .
Such a mitosis , instead of reducing the number to half , really results in the original number of chromosomes being doubled , because the separated halves of the chromosomes combine again to form a single nucleus .
After elimination of these sources of confusion , there remain other apparent heterotypical mitoses which cannot be explained in any of these ways .
The chromosomes present an irregular contour and become drawn out like a viscid fluid in the later stages of separation .
Individual chromosomes cannot be made out .
The achromatic spindle develops at such a rate that the evolution of the chromosomes cannot keep pace with it , and they are drawn towards the spindle and stretched upon it before they have completely contracted and condensed .
All these abnormalities may occur in nuclei possessing the usual number of chromosomes .
They also occur in cells with a greater or lesser number associated with the presence of multipolar and asymmetrical mitoses in other cells .
In such cases there is no evidence warranting the assumption that the diminution in the number of the chromosomes is due solely to a nuclear division effecting a reduction comparable to that of the sexual cells .
GalleottiJ and von HansemannS have shown that nuclei with diminished numbers of chromosomes ( hypo-chromatic ) may arise from larger ones by asymmetrical mitosis , in which entire chromosomes pass to one daughter * * * S * Th. Boveri , 'Sitz.-ber .
Pbys.-med .
Ges .
, ' Wurzburg , 1897 ; ' Zellenstmlien,1 vo ) .
4 , Jena , 1901 .
t M. Boveri , * Jen .
Zeitschr .
f. Naturwiss , ' vol. 37 , 1903 .
t ' Ziegler 's Beitr .
, ' vol. 14 , 1893 .
S Loc .
cit. f 1905 .
] Occurrence of Heterotypical Mitoses in Cancer .
' 231 cell , because they are only attached to one or other attraction sphere , and also by " casting out of chromatin .
" " Casting out of chromatin " is merely an exaggeration of what occurs in asymmetrical mitosis ; in it some chromosomes remain unattached to either attraction-sphere , and therefore fail to be included in either daughter nucleus .
Krompecher* and we ourselvesf have shown that multipolar mitoses may also lead to a diminution in the number of chromosomes .
We stated that nuclei with diminished and half the somatic number of chromosomes occur without it being possible to determine whether the diminution has been effected by asymmetrical mitosis , casting out of chromatin , multipolar or heterotypical mitosis .
We have given our reasons for now believing that the mitoses we formerly assumed confirmed the occurrence of a heterotypical reducing division in cancer , are , in reality , somatic mitoses .
Although we do not presume to explain in the above manner all the figures which may be brought forward resembling that form of nuclear division , we submit that the occurrence of heterotypical mitoses in cancer requires further proof .
Multipolar mitosis and other irregular forms of cell-division occur in cancer , but they do not supervene upon lieterotypical mitosis .
They are entirely independent of its presence , and , of themselves , suffice to account for the diminutions frequently occurring in the number of chromosomes in cancer throughout the vertebrates .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
[ Plates 5 and 6 .
] Fig. 1.\#151 ; Apparent lieterotypical mitosis .
Transplanted carcinoma of mouse .
Analysis of ring , loop , and bivalent chromosomes ( heterotypical ) .
Replica of fig. 3 of Royal Society paper , and of fig. 27 , First Scientific Report , 1904 .
x 3000/ 1 .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Same section as fig. 1 .
Analysis after restaining , showing how a fortuitous association of short somatic ( longitudinally split ) chromosomes gives the appearance of bivalent elements .
X 3000/ 1 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Partial analysis of the remainder of the mitosis , of which part only is shown in figs. 1 and 2 .
Longitudinally split chromosomes with limbs of unequal length lying at various angles to the spindle axis .
X 3000/ 1 .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Diagram of a somatic amphiaster , in which longitudinally split Y-shaped chromosomes , with limbs of unequal length , are apparently arranged parallel to the spiudle axis .
Adjacent chromosomes , with their longer limbs on opposite sides of the equator , if regarded as together forming one chromosome , would convert such a mitosis into a heterotype with half the somatic number of chromosomes arranged longitudinally on the spindle , e.g. , figs. 3 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , and 10 .
Figs. 5 and 6.\#151 ; Apparent heterotypical mitosis .
Fig. 5 , replica of fig. 4 , Royal Society paper , and of fig. 26 in First Scientific Report , 1904 .
Transplanted carcinoma of * 'Centralb .
f. Path .
u. path .
Anat .
, ' vol. 13 , 1902 .
t Log. cit. 232 On the Occurrence of Heterotypical Mitoses in Cancer .
mouse .
Chromosomes arranged longitudinally on the spindle .
The mitosis is contained in two consecutive sections .
X 3000/ 1 .
Figs. 7 and 8.\#151 ; Same sections as figs. 5 and 6 .
Result of analysis after restaining .
Longitudinally split chromosomes with unequal limbs projecting above and below the equatorial plane .
X 3000/ 1 of diagram , fig. 4 .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; Apparent heterotypical mitosis .
Transplanted carcinoma of mouse .
Loop and figure-of-8 chromosomes arranged longitudinally on the spindle .
X 3000/ 1 .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; Analysis of the same preparation as fig. 9 , showing the slight differences in interpretation sufficient to make this mitosis conform to the somatic type .
The loop chromosome in the middle of the equatorial plate consists of two distinct Y-shaped chromosomes with unequal limbs projecting above and below the equator .
The attraction fibres are attached to the apices , and not to the ends of the long limbs as would be the case in a true heterotype .
X 3000/ 1 .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; Diagram of a somatic metaphase in which the limbs of the chromosomes are of unequal length .
The longer limbs still cohere after separation of the apices and shorter limbs .
The barrel-shaped figure thus produced resembles a heterotype , especially when the compressed form of the cytoplasm crowds the chromosomes together .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; Shows the detailed analysis of the mitosis at the upper part of fig. 20 , Plate 7 , Second Scientific Deport , 1905 .
It illustrates the mode of separation of daughter chromosomes with unequal limbs , as represented diagrammatically in fig. 11 .
Transplanted carcinoma of mouse .
X 3000/ 1 .
Fig. 13.\#151 ; Microphotograph ( untouched ) of " monaster " mitosis from squamous-celled carcinoma of the tongue ( man ) .
Shows ring and U-shaped chromosomes .
X1000/ 1 .
t'lG .
14.\#151 ; Analysis of same section as fig. 13 .
Partial separation of the daughter chromosomes accounts for the presence of ring and U-shaped chromosomes .
No centrosomes or achromatic figure visible .
X 3000/ 1 .
Fig. 15.\#151 ; Remainder of same cell in next section .
Shows large number of chromosomes of ring and U-sliape , along with others in which the widely separated daughter-rods are parallel to each other , x 3000/ 1 .
Bashford and .
Boy .
Soc. ProcB .
77 , Plate 5 .
Basliford and Murray .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. 77 , Plate 6 .
Fig. 9 .
Fig. 14 .

