1872 .
] On the Echinidea of the * Porcupine * Expeditions .
491 hydride and olefine containing an equal number of carbon atoms as in the above equation .
Neither supposition is exactly substantiated by experiment .
If the action of heat gave rise to the former mode of decomposition , we ought to obtain a larger quantity of ethylene after prolonged heating , especially when the liquefied portion is rich in hydrocarbons of low molecular weight ; but it has already been pointed out that the process of liquefaction is accompanied with the production of comparatively little gas .
On the other hand , an examination of the amounts of bromine required to render the hydrocarbons boiling above 200 ' permanently red , shows that the proportion of hydride to olefine in the several mixtures becomes gradually larger as the molecular weight increases .
It would doubtless have been interesting to have determined the relative amounts of the twelve fractions isolated from the decomposed paraffin ; but when it is considered that their separation was only effected after several thousand distillations , it will be evident that the quantities obtained after such prolonged treatment can afford no real indication of the amounts present in the original liquid .
It appears , however , that the amounts of liquid boiling at 94-97 ' and 122-125 ' were but slightly , if at all , less than the quantities boiling at 252\#151 ; 255 ' and 273-276 ' .
XIX .
( \lt ; On the Echinidea of the ( Porcupine ' Deep-sea Dredging-Expeditions .
" By Prof. Wyville Thomson , LL. D. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received June 15 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The deep-sea dredging-cruises of H.M. Ships * Lightning * and * Porcupine ' during the summers of 1868 , 1869 , and 1870 in the North Atlantic , were comprehended within a belt 1500 miles in length by from 100 to 150 miles in width , extending from the Faeroe Islands along the northern and western coasts of Scotland and Ireland and the coasts of Portugal and Spain to the Strait of Gibraltar .
In this area fifty-seven successful hauls of the dredge were made during the three summers in water exceeding 500 fathoms in depth , sixteen beyond 1000 fathoms , and two beyond 2000 fathoms .
Even at the latter extreme depth Echinodermata appeared to be abun-ant* At 2435 and at 2090 fathoms all the Echinoderm orders were represented the Echinidea by a small variety of Echinus , D. \amp ; K. , and a young example of Brissopsis lyrifera , Forbes ; the Asteridea by a species e genus Archaster ; the Ophiuridea by Ophiocten sericeum , Forbes , an Ophiacantha spinulosa , M. \amp ; T. ; the Holothuridea by Echinocucumis ypica , Sars ; and the Crinoidea by a very remarkable new form of the pwcrinidae , which has been described under the name of Bathycrinus deilisi Wy .
T , From 2000 fathoms upwards the number of Echino-erms seeni8 to increase rapidly ; h vet this apparent increase may possibly be Prof. Wyville Thomson on the Echinidea of the [ June 20 , due to our wider knowledge of the fauna of the shallower water ; from 300 to 800 fathoms along the coast of Britain many species of all the ?
orders are enormously abundant , so much so as to give a very marked 1 character to the fauna of that special zone .
Several of these species , } such as Cidaris papillata , Leske , drobachiensis , Muller , 1 Echinus norvegicus , D. \amp ; K. , Astropecten D. \amp ; K. , Archaster !
Parellii , D. \amp ; K. , A. Andromeda , M. \amp ; T. , and Euryale M. \amp ; T , , !
l have been long known to inhabit the deep water of the British area , and : form part of a fauna which will be probably found to have a very wide lateral !
extension at temperatures whose minimum ranges from 0 ' C. to +2 ' C. , a fauna which crops up , as it were , within the ordinary limits of observation in the seas of Scandinavia , and which has consequently been carefully studied by the Scandinavian naturalists .
Another group of species , including Tripylus , D. \amp ; K. , Ctenodiscus crispatus , Retzius , Pteraster M. \amp ; T. , Amphiura abyssicola , Sars , Antedon Eschrichtii , O. F. Muller , and several others , are members of the same fauna described from localities in the seas of Scandinavia and Greenland , but not hitherto known as British .
A third section , consisting of a number of undescribed Echinideans , Asterideans , and Ophiurideans , may probably also belong to this fauna ; while a fourth group , likewise undescribed , and including such forms as Porocidaris , Phormosoma , veria , Pourtalesia , Neolampas , Zoro , Ophiomusium , Pentacrinus , Bhizocrinus , and Bathycrinus , would rather appear to be referable to a special deep-sea fauna of which we as yet know only a few examples , and with whose conditions and extension we are unacquainted .
This abyssal fauna is of great interest , inasmuch as nearly all the hitherto discovered forms referred to it show close relations to family types of Cretaceous or early Tertiary age , and hitherto supposed to be extinct .
Twenty-seven species of Echinidea were procured during the cruises of 1868 , 1869 , and 1870 , off the coasts of Britain and Portugal , at depths varying from 100 to 2435 fathoms .
ClDARID-S .
Cidaris , Lamarck .
1 .
C. papillata , Leske .
Occurs in enormous numbers on gravel at depths from 100 to 4 fathoms , from Fee roe to Gibraltar , and small-sized examples are frequent down to 1000 fathoms .
This is a variable species , and every possi e link may be shown between the typical O. Leske , and C. hystnx , Lam .
I have no hesitation , after examining many hundreds of specimens , in fusing the two forms into one species .
2 .
C. affinis , Stokes .
( This is a pretty little species , and apparently distinct , although it is some times not easy to draw the line between it and small forms of C.papllt 1872.J ' Porcupine3 Dredging-Expeditions .
493 .
It occurs abundantly in the Mediterranean , and locally off the coast of Porocidaris , Desor .
This genus wa3 established by Desor chiefly on a character which I cannot regard as of great importance , and which is absent in the present species , a row of small holes surrounding the tubercles of the primary spines in the scrobicular are\#174 ; .
From the description these holes seem to be nothing more than complete perforations , owing to imperfect calcification , in the position of the depressions which frequently occur in the scrobicul\#174 ; of the Cidaridse for the insertion of the muscles of the spines .
Along with this character , however , there were some others of greater value , a very remarkable paddle-like form of the spines surrounding the mouth , and a tendency to coalescence in the scrobicular are\#174 ; .
These characters are well marked in the species described .
This genus has hitherto only been found fossil\#151 ; a few detached plates and some of the characteristic spines in the Num-mulitic bedsof Verona and Biarritz , and some spines referred to the genus , on account of their having the same singular form , in the Lower Oolite of Frick .
1 .
P. purpurata , n. sp. Four examples from depths from 500 to 600 fathoms off the Butt of the Lews .
Echinothurid^b .
I think it due to the memory of the late Dr. S. P. Woodward to adopt as the type of this very distinct and remarkable family the genus thuria , which he described with singular sagacity from one or two imperfect specimens from the White Chalk .
The Echinothurid\#174 ; are regular urchins with depressed tests , rendered perfectly flexible by the whole of the plates , both ambulacral and interambulacral , being arranged in imbricating rows , the interambulacral plates overlapping one another from the apex to the mouth , and the ambulacral plates in the opposite direction .
The margin , peristome is entire , and the peristomial membrane is covered with imbricated scales , through which the ranges of double pores and ambulacral tubes are continued up to the edge of the mouth as in Cidaris .
The am-acral plates are strap-shaped , and the pores trigeminal ; the two inner pairs 0 each arc pass through small accessory plates intercalated between the Rmbulacral plates , and the third pair , remote from the others , pass through it6 enc* '^the ambulacral plate .
The dental pyramid is broad and low , and e teeth are simply grooved as in Cidaris .
The two divisions of the tootli-oc et are not united by a closed arch ; the ambulacral tube-feet on the oral ur ace are provided with suckers , while those on the apical surface are simple conical .
Phormosoma , n. g. Jg- 0verlapping slightly and forming a continuous shell , the corona * ' a s^arP edge at the periphery , and the uppet surface of body eriu8 greatly in character from the lower .
Prof. Wyville Thomson on the Echinidea of the [ June 20 , ] .
P. .placenta , n. sp. One example from 500 fathoms off the Butt of the Lews ; several fragments from deep water in the Rockall Channel .
Calveria , n. g. Plates overlapping greatly in the middle line of the ambulacral and iu-terambulacral areae .
Plates narrow , and leaving fenestrae between them which are filled up with membrane .
Character of the peristome with regard to the distribution of spines , the structure of the pore-arese , \amp ; c. nearly uniform from the apex to the edge of the peristome .
1 .
C. hystrix , n. sp. Fenestree between the plates small .
Colour a nearly uniform rich claret .
One specimen in deep water off the Butt of the Lews .
2 .
C. fenestrata , n. sp. Plates narrower than in the last species , and fenestrse wider .
Of a pale grey colour , with bands of chocolate radiating from the apical pole .
Two specimens from the coast of Portugal , and fragments in deep water off the south and west of Ireland .
Echinidjs .
Echinus , Link .
1 .
E. melo , Lam .
One or two small specimens off the coast of Portugal .
2 .
E. Flemingii , Ball .
The large typical form of this species was met with in deep water off the Shetlands , but not abundantly .
3 .
E. rarispina , G. O. Sars .
4 .
E. elegans , D. \amp ; K. 5 .
E. norvegicus , D. \amp ; K. The last three are critical species ; and although the extreme forms are very dissimilar , in a large series there are so many intermediate links , that it is difficult to tell where the one begins and the other ends .
It w possible that they ought to be regarded as varieties , and lumped together under Lamarck 's name , E. acutus .
6 .
E. microstoma , n. sp. Although I have great hesitation at present in proposing an addition to the genus Echinus , I feel compelled in the meantime to separate this very distinct form with a thin depressed test , a remarkably large periproct , and a small peristome with the edge markedly curved inwards and a uniform vivid red colour .
E.microstoma is very abundant from 150 ; *\#174 ; 400 fathoms off the west coasts of Scotland and Ireland .
Sphar echinus , Desor .
1 .
S.esculentus , L. , sp. A marked variety , with a tall narrow test and white spines , in deep water .
J 1872 .
] e Porcupine ' Dr edging-Exp editions .
Toxopneustes , Agassiz .
1 .
T. drobachiensis , Muller .
Of this species it seems to me that Norman , and T.pallidus , G. 0 .
Sars , can only be regarded as varieties .
It is generally distributed at depths beyond 100 fathoms .
i 2 .
T. brevispinosus , Risso , sp. Shallow water on the coast of Spain .
Psammechinus , Agassiz .
1 .
P. miliaris , Lam .
, sp. 2 .
P. microtuberculatus , Ag .
Cassidulid^e .
i f 6 s. i ] I* Neolampas , A. Agassiz .
This genus , with a nearly central pentagonal mouth and a tolerably distinct lloscelle , with the anal opening at the bottom of a deep posterior groove excavated in a kind of projecting rostellum , with narrow ambulacral areae and a small compact group of apical plates , must be referred to the Cassidulidse ; but it differs from all known genera of the family , living or extinct , in having no trace of a petaloid arrangement of the ambulacra , which are reduced on the apical surface of the test to a single pore penetrating each ambulacral plate , and thus forming a double row of alternating simple pores for each ambulacral area .
L N.rostellatus , A. Ag .
I believe I am correct in referring to this species a single specimen dredged at the mouth of the English Channel .
It is upwards of an inch in length , and therefore nearly double the size of the examples procured by Count Pourtales in depths from 100 to 150 fathoms in the Strait of Florida .
Cl. YPEASTRIDiE .
Echinocyamus , Van Phelsum .
L E. angulatus , Leske .
Generally distributed , but not found living beyond 150 fathoms .
Ananchytid^e .
Pourtalesia , A. Agassiz .
According to the classification of Desor , which makes the " disjunct " arrangement of the ambulacra at the apex the test character of the Dysas-cndoe , this genus should be referred to that group ; for the apical disk is f'1J decomposed as in Disaster and Collyrites , and not merely drawn out ^ in Ananchytes .
From the arrangement and form of the pore-plates , j ^ever\gt ; and from the general appearance and habit of the animal , I am nc med to think with A. Agassiz that its affinities are more with such as Inful aster .
Pourtalesia must be an aberrant form , in whatever 496 On the Echinideaof the 'Porcupine ' Expeditions .
[ June 20 , eroun it may be placed .
The mouth is at the bottom of a deep anterior groove , occupying the anterior ambulacral area .
The arrangement of the trivium is nearly normal ; but the trivial region is enormously prolonged backward into a long rostrum , on the upper surface of which , near its posterior extremity , the anus is situated in a pit partially covered by a pro-jecting boss .
The ambulacral pores are simple , one pore on each plate .
1 .
P. Jeffrey si , n. sp. .
A single specimen of this very remarkable form was dredged in 610 fathoms to the north of the Sbetlands .
It is nearly allied to Pourtales , from the Strait of Florida , but differs in several details .
2 .
P. phyale , n. sp. T Two or three small specimens were dredged by Mr. Gwyn Jeffreys m the Rockall Channel .
All the specimens are immature ; but from the marked difference in form , and from some other characters , I believe them to be the young of a second species .
SpatangiDuE .
Brissopsis , Agassiz .
1 .
B.lyrifera , Forbes , sp. . .
Large specimens of this species are abundant from 50 to 2o0 fatnoms .
Beyond the latter depth the specimens decrease in size , and at extreme depths only examples which have all the appearance of being very young are met with .
These small delicate specimens were found at all depths , even down to 2090 fathoms .
Trip ylus , Philippi .
1 F^om^OiTto 500 fathoms between Scotland and Faeroe .
Hitherto known as Scandinavian .
Schizaster , Agassiz .
1 2 1 .
S. canaliferus , Yal .
A single small specimen from the coast of Spain .
Ampliidetus , Agassiz .
1 .
A. nvatus , Leske , sp. Abundant at moderate depths .
Spatangus .
1 .
S. pur pur eus , O. F. Muller .
2 .
8 .
Baschi , Loven . .
, ,.nf ; n This species is apparently gregarious , and is enormously abun patches here and there from the Faeroes to the Strait of Gibratar depths from 100 to 300 fathoms .
I Of the twenty-seven species observed , six ( namely Sp^ rechinusesculentus , Psammechinus miliaris , Echinocyamus angulatus , ^ phidetus ovatus , and Spatangus purpureus ) may be regarded as temz i 1872 .
] Mr. A. Liversidge on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
497 l of moderate depths in the " Celtic province , " recent observations having merely shown that they have a somewhat greater range in depth than was previously supposed .
Probably Spatangus llaschi may simply be an essentially deep-water form having its headquarters in the same region .
Eight species ( Cidarispapillata , Echinus elegans , E. norvegicus , E. E. microstoma , Toxopneustes drobachiensisBrissopsis and frayitis)are members of a fauna of intermediate depth ; and all , with the doubtful exception of Echinus microstoma , have been observed in comparatively shallow water off the coasts of Scandinavia .
Five species ( affinis , Echinus melo , Toxopneustes brevispinosus , Psammechinus microtu-berculatus , and Schizaster canaliferus ) are recognized members of the Lu-sitanian and Mediterranean faunae , and seven mosoma placenta , Calveria hystrix , C Neolampas rostellatus , Pourtalesia Jeffrey si , and P.phyale ) are forms which have for the first time been brought to light during the late deep-sea dredging operations , whether on this or on the other side of the A tlantic : there seems little doubt that these must be referred to the abyssal fauna , upon whose confines we are now only beginning to encroach .
Three of the most remarkable generic forms , Calveria , Neolampas , and Pourtalesia , have been found by Alexander Agassiz among the results of the deep-dredging operations of Count Pourtales in the Strait of Florida , showing a wide lateral distribution ; while even a deeper interest attaches to the fact that while one family type , the Echi-nothuridee , has been hitherto known only in a fossil state , the entire group find nearer allies in the extinct faunas of the Chalk or of the earlier Tertiaries than in that of the present period .
XX .
" On Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
" By Archibald Liver-sidge , Assoc. R.S. Mines , and Scholar of Christ 's College , Cam-bridge .
Communicated by Prof. W. II .
Miller , For .
Sec. R.S. Received June 13 , 1872 .
There is , perhaps , no necessity to describe in detail the ordinary phenomena presented by supersaturated saline solutions , since they must now ' be well known to all .
The following series of experiments have chiefly been made upon sodic sulphate j but before citing them , it may , however , not be out of place to Iniefly allude , en passant , to the conclusions drawn by the numerous writers a"\lt ; l experimenters upon this subject , since the results of my own experi-men , s are supported by the authority of some of these observers and run Is c'unter to that of others .
1 he theories which have been put forth are , in the main , as follow's:\#151 ; u ' dhat the crystallization of supersaturated solutions is caused by purely juechanical agencies , such as agitation \amp ; c. The principal supporter of " s view was Gay-Lussac , who wrote in 1819 .
It has since been shown J 0 be utterly untenable .
xx .
2 o

