III .
' Spectroscopic Observations of the Sun .
" By J. NORMAN LOCKYER , F.R.A.S. Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received October 11 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) The two most recent theories dealing with the physical constitution of the sun are due to M. Faye and to Messrs. De la Rue , Balfour Stewart , and Loewy .
The chief point of difference in these two theories is the explanation given by each of the phenomena of sun-spots .
Thus , according to M. Faye - , the interior of the sun is a nebulous gaseous mass of feeble radiating-power , at a temperature of dissociation ; the photosphere is , on the other hand , of a high radiating-power , and at a temperature sufficiently low to permit of chemical action .
In a sunspot we see the interior nebulous mass through an opening in the photosphere , caused by an upward current , and the sun-spot is black , by reason of the feeble radiating-power of the nebulous mass .
In the theory held by Messrs. De la Rue , Stewart , and Loewyt , the appearances connected with sun-spots are referred to the effects , cooling and absorptive , of an inrush , or descending current , of the sun 's atmosphere , which is known to be colder than the photosphere .
In June 1865 I communicated to the Royal Astronomical Society$ * ornptes itenclus , vol. ix .
pp. 89-138 , abst , raeted in The Reader , ' 4th February , 1865 .
t ' esearches oii Solar Physics .
Printed for private circulation .
Taylor and Francis , 1865 .
t Monthly .
Notices .
Roy , Ast .
8 , oc ionl xxv .
p , 2 37 [ Nov. 15 , 256 some observations ( referred to by the authors last named ) which had led me independently to the same conclusion as the one announced by them .
The observations indicated that , instead of a spot being caused by an upward current , it is caused by a downward one , and that the results , or , at all events , the concomitants of the downward current are a dimming and possible vaporization of the cloud-masses carried down .
I was led to hold that the current had a downward direction by the fact that one of the cloud-masses observed passed in succession , in the space of about two hours , through the various orders of brightness exhibited by faciulce , general surface , and penembr6e .
On March 4th of the present year I commenced a spectroscopic observation of sun-spots , with a view of endeavouring to test the two rival theories , and especially of following up the observations before alluded to .
The method I adopted was to apply a direct-vision spectroscope to my 6:-inch equatoreal ( by Messrs. Cooke and Sons ) at some distance outside the eyepiece , with its axis coincident with the axis of the telescope prolonged .
In front of the slit of the spectroscope was placed a screen on which the image of the sun was received ; in this screen there was also a fine slit corresponding to that of the spectroscope .
By this method it is possible to observe at one time the spectra of the umbra of a spot and of the adjoining photosphere or penumbra ; unfortunately , however , favourable conditions of spot ( i. e. as to size , position on the disk , and absence " of cloudy stratum " ) , atmosphere , and instrument are rarely coincident .
The conditions were by no means all I could have desired when my first observations were made ; and , owing to the recent absence of spots , I have had no opportunities of repeating my observations .
Hence I should have hesitated still longer to lay them before the Royal Society had not M. Faye again recently called attention to the subject .
On turning the telescope and spectrum-apparatus , driven by clock-work , on to the sun at the date mentioned , in such a manner that the centre of the umbra of the small spot then visible fell on the middle of the slit in the screen , which , like the corresponding one in the spectroscope , was longer than the diameter of the umbra , the solar spectrum was observed in the field of view of the spectroscope with its central portion ( corresponding to the diameter of the umbra falling on the slit ) greatly enfeebled in brilliancy .
All the absorption-bands , however , visible in the spectrum of the photosphere , above and below , were visible in the spectrum of the spot they , moreover , appeared thicker where they crossed the spot-spectrum .
I was unable to detect the slightest indication of any bright bands , although the spectrum was sufficiently feeble , I think , to have rendered thei unmistakeably visible had there been any .
Should these observations be confirmed by observations of a larger spot free from " cloudy stratum , " it will follow , not only that the phenomena Y2 presented by a sun-spot are not due to radiation from such a source as that indicated by M. Faye , but that we have in this absorption-hypothesis a complete or partial solution of the problem which has withstood so many attacks .
The dispersive power of the spectroscope employed was not sufficient to enable me to determine whether the decreased brilliancy of the spotspectrum was due in any measure to a greater number of bands of absorption , nor could I prove whether the thickness of the bands in the spot-spectrum , as compared with their thickness in the photospherespectrum , was real or apparent only* .
On these points , among others , I shall hope , if permitted , to lay the results of future observations before the Royal Society .
Seeing that spectrum-analysis has already been applied to the stars with such success , it is not too much to think that an attentive and detailed spectroscopic examination of the sun 's surface may bring us much knowledge bearing on the physical constitution of that luminary .
For instance , if the theory of absorption be true , we may suppose that in a deep spot rays might be absorbed which would escape absorption in the higher strata of the atmosphere ; hence also the darkness of a line may depend somewhat on the depth of the absorbing atmosphere .
May not also some of the variable lines visible in the solar spectrum be due to absorption in the region of spots ?
and may not the spectroscope afford us evidence of the existence of the " red flames " which total eclipses have revealed to us in the sun 's atmosphere ; although they escape all other methods of observation at other times ?
and if so , may we not learn something from this of the recent outburst of the star in Corona ?

