]\gt ; On the Scattering and Absorption of Light in Gaseous with Applications to the Intensity of Sky Radiation .
By LOUIS VESSOT KING , .
( Cantab .
) , Lecturer in Physics , McGill University , Montreal .
( Communicated by J. Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received June 7 , \mdash ; Read November7 , 1912 .
) ( Abstract .
) Sections 1 and 2.\mdash ; Lord Rayleigh* showed , in 1871 , that when radiation travels through a medium containing small particles whose dimensions are small compared with the wave-length , each of these sets up a secondary disturbance which travels in all directions at the expense of the energy in the original direction .
Various hypotheses of the aether and of the molecule in giving for the scattered radiation near an ele meant of volume an expression of the form , ( 1 ) where is the intensity contained in a small solid angle in a direction with the dilection of the original beam is the refractive index of the gas , the number of molecules per unit volume , and the wave-length of the incident radiation .
In a later paper Lord Rayleigh gave reasons for believing that the molecules of a gas are themselves able to scatter radiation in this way , and that both the attenuation of light by the earth 's atmosphere and the blue of the sky could be thus accounted for .
These results were applied by Lord to the problem of sky radiation , and this seems to have been the most recent theoretical contribution to the subject .
S Recent observations on sky radiation seem to have thrown some doubt on the sufficiency of the simple Rayleigh law to account for facts .
Seeing that * Rayleigh , ' Phil. Mag 1871 , vol. 41 , pp. 107 , 274 , 447 ; 'Collected Works , ' pp. S7 , 104 , 518 .
Bayleigh , 'Phil .
Mag 1899 , vol. 47 , pp. 375\mdash ; 384 ; CoJlected Works , ' vol. 2 , pp. 397\mdash ; 406 .
Kelvin , ' Baltimore Lectures , ' 1904 , p. 311 .
S The writer is indebted to Dr. Otto Klotz , of the Dominion Observatory , Ottawa , for calling his attention to the work of Exner along these lines .
Exner , ' Sitzungsbericht Akad . .
Wissen .
, Wien , M.-N .
Klasse , ' 1909 , vol. 118 , IIa .
A summary of results is given by Abbot C. in his recent book , ' The Sun , ' p. 299 ( Appleton and Co. , 1911 ) .
VOL. LXXXVIIL\mdash ; A. 84 Mr. L. V. King .
On the Scattering and [ June 7 , the phenomenon of molecular scattering is now well established , the 6 : subject has a very wide scope of application to a great variety of astrophysical problems .
It has therefore seemed desirable to investigate the subject in as general a manner as possible , and apply for verification to existing numerical data on absorption and scattering of radiation by the earth 's as well as by the sun 's atmosphere .
The two main extensions of the existing theory which form the basis of the present investigation are as follows:\mdash ; ( i ) The introduction of a second term in the differential equation for loss of intensity in a beam of radiation which allows for attenuation by absorption ( without scattering ) , i.e. the absorption gives rise to a direct conversion of radiant energy in the aether into thermal molecular agitation in the gas .
The introduction of this term leads to an equation of the form , where , ( 2 ) and A and are constants depending on the density of the gas .
The existence and magnitude of the term A can then be inferred from observations on atmospheric attenuation , and in this way a numerical estimate made of the distribution of energy between the aether and the molecular velocities of the gas .
The second feature of the present investigation consists in the mathematical consideration of effects due to nation .
Suppose a mass of gas exposed to external illumination : as a result of scattering the whole mass of gas will be luminous as is the case in the earth 's atmosphere .
Thus each element of volume besides being subject to the external incident illumination is also subject to the scattered radiation from the entire volume , and this factor will add considerably to the scattered intensity from the element of volume .
The mathematical expression of this effect gives rise to an integral equation which may be written I I is the intensity of scattered radiation per unit solid angle in a direction with the incident radiation and emanating from an element of volume at the point .
The accented symbols refer to the corresponding quantities with reference to another element of volume at The exponential expresses the attenuation of the scattered radiation from in travelling along to .
The integral is taken throughout the volume enclosed by the surface 2 drawn so as to include the entire mass of gas .
A differential equation for completes the analytical 1912 .
] Absorption of Light in Gaseous Media .
expression of the problem .
The total scattered intensity received from a small solid angle in any direction is given by , ( 4 ) where the integrals are taken so as to include all the elements of volume in the small solid angle .
The importance of self-illumination on the intensity of sky radiation is recognised both by Kelvin and Rayleigh , although no attempt seems to have been made to calculate its effect .
Schuster*in a paper on\ldquo ; Radiation through a Foggy Atmosphere\ldquo ; draws attention to the importance of the effect in astrophysical problems and obtains a representation of its magnitude by means of differential equations ; the results are applied to problems of the reversal of hnes in certain stellar spectra to be attributed to absorption and scattering in the stellar atmospheres .
The application of the theory of integral equations to problems of this type seems to offer a means of attacking a great numbel of physical problems .
3.\mdash ; An immediate application of the general equations just discussed can be made to the problem of absorption and scattering of solar radiation by the earth 's atmosphere .
The general integral equation can in this application be reduced to one in a single variable and by means of a perfectly general transformation of variables can be further reduced to the case of a homogeneous atmosphere contained between two parallel planes at a distance apart .
This transformation is independent of any law of density or temperature gradient in the atmosphere and only requires that planes parallel to the earth 's surface be planes of equal density .
The integral equation for the scattered radiation can then be written down , and by a consideration of the rate of accumulation of energy in an element of volume the result is shown to be consistent with the well-known law of attenuation , , ( 5 ) being the intensity of solar radiation of wave-length reaching a level X ; is the intensity outside the earth 's atmosphere and is the zenith distance of the sun ; is the generalised coefficient of attenuation in equation ( 2 ) referred to normal pressure and density .
Section 4.\mdash ; Progress towards the solution of the integral equation requires the development of a special method of approximation .
It is shown in a general case that the solution must lie between two limits called the extreme solutions , and an intermediate value called the mean solution is obtained which * Schuster , ' Astrophys .
Journ January , 1905 , vol. 21 , p. 1 .
Mr. L. V. King .
On the Scattering [ June 7 , represents a value probably not far from the correct one in the applications considered .
Section \mdash ; The approximate solution of the integral equation leads to a number of transcendental functions which recur so frequently that they are designated by a special notation and tabulated ; among these are ( 6 ) where is exponential integral , denoted by Section 6.\mdash ; The intensity of sky radiation corresponding to any direction of sun and sky can now be obtained in terms of the coefficient of attenuation for a particular wave-length .
Formulae are developed giving the total sky radiation on a horizontal plane and rough estimates of the degree of polarisa- tion of the light from different regions of the sky .
Section 7.\mdash ; Numerous observations on the attenuation of solar radiation have been made by the Smithsonian Astrophysical in connection with the determination of the solar constant .
At any station at a height above sea-level the law of attenuation may be written ( 7 ) where and and are constants for all stations and have the values and , while is the height of the " " homogeneous atmosphere The term expresses the attenuation by absorption alone .
If the observed values of the coefficients of attenuation are plotted against the inverse fourth power of the wave-length for different we should obtain a family of lines all passing through the same point .
The coefficients of attenuation for Mount Whitney ( 4420 metres , Mount Wilson ( 1780 metres ) , Potsdam ( 100 metres ) , and Washington ( 10 metres ) , are analysed in this way ; the result gives rise to a family of straight lines shown in the diagram .
The results for sea-level stations require special interpretation owing to Glaisher , ' Phil. Trans 1870 , p. 367 .
A summary of the most recent resuIts of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory is given by Abbof ( C. " " The Sun 's Energy , , and Temperature ' Astrophys .
Journ October , 1911 , vol. 34 .
1912 .
] Absorption of Light in Gaseous the effect of ' ' atmospheric dust A disoontinuity in the straight lines occurs in the neighbourhood of .
Wave-lengths greater than this oonstitute -wave radiation , while shorter wave-lengths constitute short-wave radiat ; the two classes demand separate discussion .
-wave Radiation.\mdash ; For the longer waves the ' dust\ldquo ; present in the atmosphere is able to absorb as well as to scatter : the fact that the straight lines intersect in the same point leads to the result independently of any law of distribution of ' ' dust\ldquo ; : the presence of " " dust ' Variation of Coefficients of Atmospheric Attenuation with Wave-Length .
Curve L\mdash ; Mount Whitney .
II.\mdash ; Mount Wilson .
III.\mdash ; Potsdam .
IV.\mdash ; Washington .
gives rise to the constants of absorption and scattering denoted by accented letters .
This result can be expressed in the form : the ratio of energy scattered to energy absorbed and converted into heat is constant for any wave-length and is independent of the nature of the scattering particle whethe ' dust\ldquo ; or molecules .
( ii ) Short-wave Radiation.\mdash ; In this case we may suppose that " " dust\ldquo ; attenuates radiation of all wave-lengths without scattering , so that the scattering which exists is due entirely to air-molecules .
In order to test this conclusion we measure the slope of the straight lines of the diagram over the 88 Mr. V. King .
On the [ June 7 , portion corresponding to short-wave radiation , and so obtain values of , the barometric pressures at the stations being supposed known at the time of observation .
From a knowledge of the optical constants of air , we may make use of these values of to obtain an estimate of , the number of molecules per cubic centimetre of a gas at standard temperature and pressure .
The results are as follows:\mdash ; Potsdam .
, Mt .
Wilson Washington , Mt .
Whitney These are in tolerable agreement with the values obtained by Rutherford and and by Millikan Another numerical result of some interest is obtained from the observations on attenuation of solar radiation in the comparatively dust-free air above Mount Wilson and Mount Whitney .
From the straight lines in the diagram we find , so that .
( 9 ) represents the fraction of radiant energy travelling through air at normal pressure and temperature , which is converted into thermal molecular agitation per centimetre of path .
If direct sunlight is travelling through air under these conditions , the above value of leads to an increase of temperature of C. per hour .
The effect of ' ' dust\ldquo ; as at Washington is to increase this value about six-fold .
Section 8.\mdash ; The intensity of sky radiation can be calculated in terms of the coefficients of attenuation ; the results for zenith sky are calculated for Mount Wilson for comparison with observations .
and for Washington as typical of a sea-level station .
The former results agree as regards both quality and total intensity of sky radiation sufficiently well with experiment to indicate that molecular scattering when taken in conjunction with selfillumination is sufficient to account for all the phenomena of sky light .
The hitherto neglected factor of self-illumination is responsible for about 33 per cent. of the whole effect at in the violet and for about 5 per cent. at in the red .
Sky intensities at sea-level are interesting iu enabling us to calculate the total radiation from the sky on a zontal surface , a magnitude of some importance in meteorology .
At Washington it is found that this quantity is about per cent. of the normal solar radiation reaching the earth , and is approximately constant for all zenith distances of the sun .
Thus , if the sun 's zenith distance is , the contribution of sky radiation to the heat available Rutherford ( E. ) amd Geiger H. ) , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1908 , , vol. 81 , p. 171 .
MiUikan ( R. ' Phys. Rev April , 1911 , vol. 32 .
1912 .
] Absorption of Light in Gase.ous Media .
for heating the earth is 16 per cent. of the sun 's heat ; for a zenith distance of the proportion is 24 per cent. , and for the proportion reaches 44 per cent. Sky radiation is thus a feature of some importance in the meteorology of northern labitudes where the altitude of the sun remains small during the winter months .
Summary.\mdash ; The analysis of the present investigation seems to support the view that , at levels above Mount Wilson , molecular scattering is sufficient to account completely both for attenuation of solar radiation and for the intensity and quality of sky radiation .
Even at sea-level the effect of atmospheric dust\ldquo ; can be taken into account in a simple manner in the formulae for absorption and scattering .
Should future observations support the validity of the simple law expressed by equation ( 2 ) connecting the coefficient of attenuation with the wave-length , we may with considerable assurance make use of the law to obtain the coefficients for very short or very long wave-lengths when the direct method of calculation from high and low sun observations leaves room for considerable uncertainty owing to the small intensities in the solar spectrum at these wave-lengths , and owing to other experimental difficulties .
Schuster .
cit. ) points out in this connection the extreme importance of determining accurately the form of the solar intensity curve outside the earth 's atmosphere for short wavelengths , since the effect of a solar atmosphere in absorbing and scattering radiation is to give rise to an intensity-curve which does not agree with that given by Planck 's formula , especially for short wave-lengths .
Absorption and scattering of radiation by the sun 's atmosphere , taken in conjunction with effects of self-illumination , constitutes a problem analogous to that just considered for the earth 's atmosphere .
By making a com- parison between the calculated variation of intensity of radiation of different wave-lengths over the solar disc and the results of observation it will be possible to determine from the intensity-curve of the normal solar spectrum outside the earth 's atmosphere the intensity-curve at the radiating layer of the sun .
This corrected curve may then be compared with that given by Planck 's formula , and a closer approximation made to the temperature of the sun tha1i the values now given .
This investigation the writer hopes to be able to deal with in a future

