OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
VOL. LXXIX.\#151 ; B. b CONTENTS .
Sir John Scott Burdon-Sanderson ( with plate ) Henry Benedict Medlicott ... William Thomas Blanford Thomas George Bond Howes Ferdinand Baron von Richthofen ... Frederick Wollaston Hutton ... George Bowdler Buckton Charles Baron Clarke ... Lionel Smith Beale ... ... ... PAGE iii xix xxvii xxxi xxxv xli xlv xlix lvii SIR JOHN BURDON SANDERSON .
Ill SIR JOHN SCOTT BURDON-SANDERSON , Bart. 1828\#151 ; 1905 .
Sir John Scott Burdon-Sanderson was connected on both his father 's and his mother 's side with men of great distinction .
His father , Richard Burdon-Sanderson , of West Jesmond and Otterburn Dene , was the son of Sir Thomas Burdon , several times Mayor of Newcastle .
His grandmother was a sister of John Scott , famous afterwards as Lord Eldon , and of William Scott , who became Lord Stowell .
Richard Burdon went to Oxford for his University education , where he took first-class honours , obtained the Newdigate , and became a Eellow of Oriel College .
He married the only daughter of Sir James Sanderson , Bart. , M.P. , who had been Lord Mayor of London ; on his marriage he took the name of Sanderson .
There were five children , two sons and three daughters ; the oldest son , Richard Burdon-Sanderson , died from the effect of injuries received in the Abbott 's Ripton railway accident of 1876 ; one of the daughters married Robert Haldane , of Cloanden , and two of her sons , the Right Hon. Richard Burdon Haldane , M.P. , and Dr. John Scott Haldane , F.R.S. , are well known , the former for his great public services , the latter for his contributions to science .
John Scott Burdon-Sanderson , the fourth child , was born at North Jesmond , Northumberland , on December 21 , 1828 ; the old Manor House had become unsafe owing to the undermining of the adjacent collieries , and the new house at West Jesmond was being erected for the future residence of the family .
In common with many other distinguished men of that period he was not sent to school , but was educated at home by tutors under the immediate supervision of his father .
This home at West Jesmond , in the North Country , with its surrounding of swelling moors and rocky streams , fostered in the boy that love of nature and appreciation of natural objects which was to lead him into the biological side of natural science .
He retained to the end of his life the impression of these early years , and always showed a , special delight in wide space , the swell of hills stretching out to meet the sky , and all that airy freedom which is so indelibly bound up with moorland scenery .
Shooting , fishing , and riding were the natural recreations of such a boyhood , but probably the greatest joy was experienced in scouring the stretches of wild country on horseback or on foot , often in the company of his father 's huntsman , a most intelligent man , who knew every bird that flew .
In later years there were few things which he found so exhilarating as a tramp over the heather , the enjoyment of which became much enhanced when he had developed his scientific knowledge .
As a boy he delighted in the observation of wild animals and in the discovery of wild flowers ; later he became a keen field botanist , experiencing all the satisfaction of the systematist , who , by naming a wild flower , places it into its proper iv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
place in the scale of plant life , experiencing also that peculiar pleasure which the field botanist knows when he comes upon a rare wild flower or one growing in unsuspected localities .
In such surroundings were slowly forged the links which were to bind him to the study of living phenomena , and make him regard both pathological and physiological phenomena from a biological standpoint .
There is little doubt that , with his inclinations , temperament and powers of observation , he possessed gifts which might have made him a great naturalist .
His father may have recognised the significance of these features of his son 's character , as he undoubtedly recognised his ability , but the fame of the boy 's great-uncles , Lord Eldon and Lord Stowell , inclined him to believe that a legal training would give the lad the best opportunity for their display .
An event , however , occurred which fixed the boy 's own ideas as to his future .
Dr. Mortimer Glover , of Newcastle , came to Otterburn to attend the elder brother , who was dangerously ill .
Dr. Glover was an exceedingly able man , with a vivid sense of the great possibilities of his profession ; he was at the time occupied in the experimental investigation of chloroform , and continued this work in his spare time at Otterburn .
There is little doubt that he recognised young Burdon-Sanderson 's intelligent interest in biological subjects , and that this friendship suggested to the boy the career of his life .
When Mr. Burdon-Sanderson discovered that his son 's desire was to enter the medical profession , he wisely gave up his own views as to his future , and sent him in 1847 to Edinburgh , where he remained for about four years , taking the degree of M.D. in 1851 , and obtaining the Gold Medal .
Edinburgh was at this time the chief medical school in the United Kingdom , and the teaching staff comprised men of very great distinction ; two of these seem to have exercised a particular influence upon young Burdon-Sanderson , Goodsir , then Professor of Anatomy , and Hughes Bennett , the Professor of Physiology ; this was especially the case in regard to Bennett , who turned his thoughts and efforts towards the scientific and experimental side of medical science .
It is somewhat remarkable that his earliest scientific investigations should have been related to subjects which were to employ for many years his mature powers .
In the Journal of the Royal Medical Society ( a gathering of Edinburgh students for the discussion of scientific subjects ) an entry occurs which states that , in 1850 , a dissertation was read by John Scott Sanderson , of Newcastle , on " Vegetable Irritability .
" In the Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medicine of 1851 there is an extensive criticism by John Scott Sanderson of the views held as to the metamorphosis of the red blood corpuscles ; the criticism is founded on numerous experimental observations made by the author upon the blood of the spleen and other organs ; from the title page of this paper , it seems that he was at this time Vice-President of the Physiological Society of Edinburgh .
It thus appears that , at the age of twenty-three or twenty-four , he had Sir John Scott Bur don-Sanderson , Bart. v grasped some of those fundamental principles which were to be displayed in all his later scientific work .
He recognised the importance of studying living processes , and the fundamental nature of such characteristics of these processes as are general in their distribution ; for instance , excitability or irritability ; he recognised also the paramount necessity of experimental investigation for the determination of a physiological problem .
A further notable characteristic of his mental attitude towards biological and medical science is displayed by the step which he took when the Edinburgh curriculum had been completed .
He appears to have realised early in his medical career that , since the study of living processes , whether normal or abnormal , was a study of their chemical and physical aspects , it was essential to possess an adequate knowledge of the methods used in chemistry .
The completion of medical education by a visit to a Continental medical school was in vogue at this time , and so BurdomSanderson went in the autumn of 1851 to Paris , with the definite intention of spending a considerable part of his time in working practically at organic chemistry under Gerhardt .
In a little daily journal he dotted down brief indications as to the main occupations ' of each day ; the diary is somewhat irregular , but is of much interest , since it affords a glimpse of the nature of his work .
In Paris he placed himself under Gerhardt , but soon began systematic work of a practical kind in the laboratory of Wurtz .
He devoted himself especially to the study of the organic compounds which are found in animal tissues , and commenced a research into the constitution of such substances as could be extracted from muscle , particularly kreatine .
In the diary there are brief references to chemical work on a large variety of compounds , including kreatine , uric acid , urea , hippuric acid , benzoic acid , leucine , glycin , bile compounds , choleate of soda , stearic acid , elaic acid , oleic acid , lactic acid , and pulmonic acid , this last having a query annexed to it .
On January 16 , 1852 , there is a note to the effect that he read a paper at the Paris Medical Society " which was not understood .
" It was a busy winter ; time was found for attending the embryological lectures given by Cost , for visiting once or twice a week some of the Paris hospitals , and for witnessing the experimental demonstrations given by Claude Bernard .
Several of those who had been his fellow students at Edinburgh were in Paris at this time ; among these the names of Pavy and Marcet frequently occur in the little diary .
It appears that he joined these two friends in attending the experimental demonstrations and lectures given by Claude Bernard , and seems to have immediately fallen under the magnetic spell cast by the intellectual personality of this great physiologist .
His veneration for Bernard lasted throughout his life , and in later years he used to say , pointing to the bust which stood upon the shelf above his study table , that Bernard was the most inspiring teacher , the most profound scientific thinker , and the most remarkable experimental physiologist that he had ever known .
On March 1 , 1852 , there is the following interesting entry in the diary : " Went with Marcet to Bernard 's , who showed us much attention ; " followed vi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
the next day by , " Went with Harley and Wason to Bernard , who introduced us to Majendie ! !
" ; on March 13 , 1851 , occurs the entry " Was with Bernard performing several experiments .
" Among other entries scattered along the diary are the following : " Performed operation for obtaining pancreatic juice on a rabbit ; did not succeed in introducing the cannula " ; " injected a pigeon " ; " operated unsuccessfully on a dog for pancreatic juice ; " " operated successfully on pancreatic duct , " etc. A more elaborate note-book of this date in his handwriting gives a synopsis of Bernard 's experimental lectures , and treats some subjects in much detail , notably , the and nature of glycogen and the phenomena of diabetes .
He was in Paris during the exciting period of the Coup d'Etat , December 2 , 1851 ; in 1852 he came back to England for Easter , but returned to Paris for May and June , mainly in order to finish some of his chemical work .
He had now decided to settle in London , this resolve being largely determined by his approaching marriage with Ghetal Herschell , the daughter of the Eev .
R H. Herschell , and sister of Farrer Herschell , who subsequently became Lord Chancellor .
In this union , which took place in 1853 , he found , in the highest sense of the word , the helpmeet for him ; all who knew Sir John and Lady Burdon-Sanderson are well aware of the peculiar strength of the ties which bound them , whilst those who have enjoyed the privilege of more intimate friendship realise that the great powers of the husband were fostered by the congenial atmosphere which the devoted care and loving sympathy of the wife ensured .
In the serenity of true domestic felicity , a happiness which was to last without a check for over fifty years , he started in London as a practising physician .
His scientific bent inclined him to take some scientific post if it should be offered him , and , in recognition of his extensive knowledge and undoubted ability , such offers soon occurred .
He was in 1854 appointed Medical Registrar to St. Mary 's Hospital , whilst a little later he was made Lecturer in Botany , and finally Lecturer in Medical Jurisprudence at the medical school attached to this institution .
In 1854 he contributed , among other things , a masterly article on " Vegetable Reproduction " to Todd 's Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology , thus showing that his botanical interests remained as strong as ever .
In 1856 there occurred an event which may be considered as the first and greatest landmark in his scientific career , for it was the event which determined the specific character of his life 's work ; in this year he was appointed Medical Officer of Health for the extensive district of Paddington .
That a post of such responsibility should be offered to a man under thirty years of age , and within three years of his arrival in London , is striking evidence of the high opinion which had been formed of his powers ; these were now to be successively focussed on those branches of medical science in which he was to achieve acknowledged eminence .
From practical sanitation he rapidly became an authority upon the scientific aspects of hygiene , and this study led by a natural extension to wider aspects of pathology , and ultimately back to physiology .
Sir John Scott Bur don-Sanderson , Bart. vii He retained his Paddington appointment for eleven years , one notable incident , the cholera epidemic of 1865-66 , occurring towards the end of his period of office .
His rare abilities and scientific acumen were soon recognised by the late Sir John Simon ( at that time Mr. Simon ) , the Medical Officer of the Privy Council , and in 1860 he was appointed an Inspector in the Medical Department of the Council .
In the discharge of these duties he sent in many sanitary reports , which were so valued that , although he ceased to be an acting inspector in 1866 , he was frequently asked to undertake scientific investigations for the Government authorities , and continued to contribute to the annual reports of the Privy Council and Local Government Board for a further period of ten years .
His contributions contain the results of experimental investigations on a number of scientific problems , which have subsequently become of extreme importance in connection with the prevention and etiology of infectious and other diseases .
Sir John Simon , in his " Eeview of English Sanitary Institutions , " gives some details which display the scope of Burdon-Sanderson 's early work in practical sanitation , but a true appreciation of the debt which civilisation owes to Burdon-Sanderson can only be derived from a perusal of the reports themselves .
It appears that from 1860 to 1864 he co-operated with others in collecting reliable information as to the utility of vaccination , and it was largely on the strength of this mass of information that a Bill to amend the Vaccination Law was laid before the Legislature , and that the important sanitary statute relating to this matter was passed in 1866 .
But the mental attitude of Burdon-Sanderson towards the problems presented by hygiene was one which impelled him to undertake a more profound experimental study of morbid processes , the subject being treated along chemical and physical lines without losing sight of the essential biological setting .
In 1865 he commenced for the Medical Department of the Privy Council a laborious investigation of the chemical aspects of infective processes , and in particular of those which were associated with the presence of contagious diseases in animals .
The special portion of this work with which his name will be always identified , is that devoted to the study of cattle plague , undertaken towards the close of 1865 for the Boyal Commission appointed to investigate this very important matter .
He ascertained that the true contagium could be separated by physico-chemical means from the animal tissues which contained it , and that the extracts of these tissues lost , in consequence of such separation , their infective power .
This work brought the experimental study of contagious diseases in this country into line with the work of Pasteur upon fermentation and putrefaction .
Another suggestive feature of his work at this time is furnished in the reports which he produced dealing with the subject of tuberculosis .
The researches described in these reports are models of exactitude , and the descriptions of the way in which chronic tuberculous infection invades the organism is in all essentials that which is still put forth .
At this period there was grave doubt as to the causative factor of tuberculosis , and even the viii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
possibility that the origin of the infection was bacterial in its nature was scarcely recognised by pathologists .
In 1869 Sanderson 's mental attitude as to the causative factors of contagious diseases was one which distinctly -foreshadowed the views held at the present day .
Alluding to the difficulties which were brought forward , he states explicitly that , as regards the most important of them , they disappear " if we suppose that the contagious process is connected with the unfolding of organic forms .
" At that time stress was laid upon chemical aspects of these pathological processes irrespective of their biological significance ; Burdon-Sanderson , however , recognised the profound importance of these hypothetical micro-organisms .
Thus , he states , with regard to such processes , that " it is difficult to see how the phenomena could be accounted for by their chemical properties , whereas there is good and scientific ground for anticipating that the solution of the problem will some day be attained by the investigation of the morphological phenomena which attend the infective process .
" A characteristic expression of his belief in the experimental method , as the instrument for furthering our knowledge of the subject , occurs in the sentence , " I am strongly impressed with the conviction that , if the investigation is to be successful , it must be experimental in every stage of its progress .
" In this , as in general pathology and physiology , he took up the attitude that the experimental study of the processes , normal and abnormal , indicated the sole course which could be steered , if the navigator would avoid shipwreck , upon the numerous rocks and shoals which beset this difficult and little known region .
The extent to which the value of this pathological work was recognised by his contemporaries is shown by the appreciative language of eminent scientific men .
Thus , in 1870 , Huxley drew attention to it in the remarkable address entitled " Biogenesis and Abiogenesis , " which he delivered as President of the British Association .
In this he pointed out that the report of Mr. Simon , the Medical Officer to the Privy Council , contained in an appendix a most valuable essay " On the Intimate Pathology of Contagion , " by Dr. Burdon-Sanderson , " which , " he went on to say , " is one of the clearest , most comprehensive , and well-reasoned discussions of a great question which has come under my notice for a long time .
" In 1873 Burdon-Sanderson appears to have been firmly convinced that living forms were in reality the causal infective agents , and , as regards these forms , he stoutly opposed those who advocated the theory of spontaneous generation .
At this time he was Professor Superintendent of the Brown Institute , a post which he held for seven years , from 1871 to 1878 .
One of the most suggestive of the many fruitful ideas which abound in this prolonged inquiry into infectious diseases occurs in this period , when , in concluding a report upon the nature of anthrax , he brought forward experimental evidence showing that the passage of anthrax virus derived from the ox through the bodies of guinea-pigs diminished its virulence for the bovine species .
In concluding a report on this and allied subjects , Sir John Scott Bvrdon-S Bart. ix lie said : " The question whether this fact , like the analogous one of the mitigation of human small-pox by transmission , can be directly applied to a practical purpose , I leave to be determined by future inquiry .
" Three years afterwards Pasteur elaborated his system of protective inoculation against anthrax .
All this time Burdon-Sanderson still retained his hold upon that wide field of human experience which is offered to every practising physician .
He was Assistant Physician to the Brompton Hospital for Consumption from 1859 to 1867 , and full physician to the same hospital from 1867 to 1871 .
At the Middlesex Hospital he was Assistant Physician from 1863 to 1870 , and he had , in addition , a certain amount of private practice , although his time for this was necessarily much encroached upon by his scientific occupations .
In 1870 , however , he definitely gave up clinical practice and all his hospital appointments in order to devote more energy and time to scientific pathology and physiology .
The summer of this year is the second great landmark in his career , for , in this , the forty-second year of his life , he succeeded Michael Foster as Professor of Practical Physiology and Histology at University College , London , and , when Professor Sharpey retired in April , 1874 , he was appointed Jodrell Professor of Human Physiology , the two chairs being for this purpose merged into one .
In order to strengthen the teaching staff , Schafer , who for several years had been the actual teacher of practical histology , was made Assistant Professor , and entrusted with the histological part of the work , to which was subsequently added elementary physiology .
Burdon-Sanderson held the Jodrell Professorship until 1883 , when he went to Oxford as the first Waynflete Professor of Physiology , under a scheme which had been recommended by the University Commission .
The twelve years of his professorial life in London , from 1870 to 1883 , .were of great fertility from many points of view .
As already indicated , his long-continued investigations in subjects connected with public health , led him to forecast that protective treatment , by means of modified sera , which has now become of such great importance " ; but the duties of a purely physiological chair naturally concentrated his attention more and more .upon the phenomena exhibited by normal tissues .
He regarded these phenomena as being capable of exact presentation , only in so far as they \#166 ; could be described in the terminology of physics and chemistry ; for this purpose it was necessary to utilise the precise methods employed in these .sciences , and he spent much thought as to the best wray of modifying chemical and physical procedures so as to adapt them for the special purpose of physiological investigation .
Even in connection with his previous clinical work , this point of view had come to the front , as is evidenced by his careful investigation of the pulse , for which he made certain modifications in Marey 's sphygmograph , and obtained an extraordinary number of sphygmographic records taken in health and in disease .
It is also shown by the exact methods he used for determining the amplitude of the respiratory x Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
movements , among these being that of a recording stethometer for measuring the movements of the chest wall , the instrument being designed by himself for this purpose .
Probably his earliest strictly physiological inquiry of an experimental kind was that carried out for the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society in 1862 and 1863 as to the best methods for the resuscitation of the apparently drowned ; these investigations led to the adoption in 1864 of the Sylvester method by the Royal Humane Society .
Having started on this purely physiological investigation , he was led on to others , and worked upon the respiratory and circulatory mechanisms of mammals for several years prior to his being appointed to the Physiological Professorship at University College .
In 1867 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society , mainly for the-importance of his researches into subjects connected with public health , but the value of his physiological investigations was also recognised , for in this year he was selected by the Council of the Society to give the Croonian Lecture , the subject being " The influence exercised by the Movements of Respiration on the Circulation of the Blood .
" In 1872 , in conjunction with Foster , Lauder Brunton and Klein , he published the ' Handbook of the Physiological Laboratory , ' the special parts for which he was responsible being those devoted to experimental investigations on the circulation and on respiration .
His conception of physiology , as one prominent aspect of general biology , led him gradually into more recondite paths , and he began to devote his energies to the investigation of certain fundamental or elementary aspects of living processes .
The nature of these aspects is set forth in the-remarkable address which he delivered in 1893 at Nottingham , as President-of the British Association .
The rule of action of all such processes is there conceived to be " in each instance the interest of the organism as a whole of which it forms part , and the exciting cause some influence outside of the excited structure , technically called a stimulus .
" In 1872 he apppears to have commenced a series of experiments into the conditions which determine that universally distributed phase of living tissues termed excitability , and , with his characteristic craving for exact knowledge , he associated with this series the experimental determination of the precise history of an active process from the point of view of its time relations .
This involved the accurate measurement of the time occupied by the development , maintenance and subsidence of that excitatory change or state which a living tissue displays in response to an effectual stimulus. .
The time relations of such excitatory responses are undoubtedly largely dependent upon the character of the active change , and , when this is an alteration in mechanical form or a development of heat , all methods of recording are more or less vitiated by the circumstance that the instrument employed for recording the change has its own personal time ; moreover , even as regards the actual tissue , all observed changes of this character are : Sir John Scott Burden-S , Bart. xi gross ones , so compounded with incidental effects that it is difficult or impossible to discriminate the finer details of the fundamental active alteration .
One type of physico-chemical change , however , appeared to him to approach more closely than others to that which is assumed to take place in the actively responding excitable tissue ; this type is that alteration of electrical state which du Bois-Reymond had shown to be recognisable in nerve and which had long been known to occur in muscles and notably in the electrical organs of fishes .
Acting on this view , Burdon-Sanderson commenced his well-known researches into the characters of the electromotive phenomena displayed by excitable tissues , and the investigations thus started were destined to occupy him for the remainder of his life , that is for a period of thirty-five years .
They form Burdon-Sanderson 's most noteworthy contribution to physiological knowledge and illustrate in a striking way the pertinacity with wdiich he investigated a difficult physiological problem and the necessity which he felt for utilising in such investigation recording instruments of the utmost precision .
Examples of the latter characteristic are the time and labour which he devoted to devising suitable modifications of the repeating rheotome for use with the galvanometer , and to perfecting the employment for physiological purposes of Lippman 's capillary electrometer .
For some time the attention of Darwin had been directed to the phenomena of insectivorous plants , especially his " beloved Drosera : a wonderful plant or , rather , a most sagacious animal .
" Darwin 's work on the digestive powers of Drosera brought him into communication with Burdon-Sanderson , and a letter written in July , 1873 , shows that Darwin was struck with the notion that the excitable cells of the plant might exhibit phenomena in all essentials similar to those present in excitable animal tissues .
Drosera led to Dionsea , which is characterised by the rapid character of the movement of its leaf lobes when certain hairs upon their inner surface are touched .
The exquisite sensibility of the hairs to mechanical displacement and the extraordinarily rapid character of the mechanical alteration in the leaf attracted the attention of Burdon-Sanderson , who saw in this plant an organ admirably fitted for the investigation of fundamental phenomena .
He therefore , about 1875 , commenced an investigation as to the changes which were associated with this active process and the conditions which influenced their production and character .
In the course of this inquiry he discovered that there was a pronounced electromotive change in the leaf every time it passed into the active state .
He then devised an ingenious method for keeping the leaves forcibly open by fixation in plaster of Paris , and demonstrated that although no mechanical movement could now take place when an excitable hair was touched , yet each local stimulus of this kind still evoked an excitatory response , since the same active electromotive change was observed .
This active " electrical response " was of considerable magnitude , although of comparatively short duration , and its peculiar interest xii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
lay in the circumstance that it was successively developed in all parts of the leaf lobes , indicating the propagation of some active cellular change from the seat of the stimulus to more remote regions .
In 1877 an account of this discovery , together with the experimental determination of the time relations of this electrical response , formed the subject of the Croonian Lecture of that year , the title of the lecture being " The Mechanical Effects and the Electrical Disturbance Consequent on Excitation of the Leaf of Dioncea muscipula " Five years later , in 1882 , a more extended and detailed account of the phenomena was published in the 'Philosophical Transactions , ' entitled " The Electromotive Properties of the Leaf of Dionsea in the Excited and Unexcited States .
" From the careful analysis which he had made of his experimental observations , he concluded that the excitatory disturbance , " by the mode of its origin , the suddenness of its incidence and the rapidity of its propagation , is distinguished from every other phenomenon except the corresponding process in the excitable tissues of animals .
" " In the one case as in the other , " he continues , " we must regard the electrical change as a visible sign of an unknown molecular process .
" The actual mechanical displacement he agreed with Pfeffer in considering as probably related to " the diminution of the turgor or water-charge of the protoplasm of the excitable cells .
" The experimental evidence which he now brought forward appeared to indicate two possible sources of electromotive change ; there was shown to be an initial or primary change , sudden in its development , brief in its duration , and always of the same general type ; this he regarded as the electrolytic indication of the peculiar molecular alteration in the plant cells which constitutes the excitatory state ; it was succeeded by a second change of longer duration and often of different sign , which was attended by a prolonged residuum or after effect ; this he regarded as associated with diminished turgor and consequent displacement of water .
It was only by accurate methods of recording that he was enabled to discriminate between the primary and secondary effects and to show that as regards the primary or initial change the active excitatory state is fundamentally the same , whether it occurs in these vegetable cells or in excitable animal tissues .
A third paper upon the electromotive properties of the leaf of Dionaea appeared in the 'Philosophical Transactions ' of 1888 .
This paper included a number of experimental observations as to the behaviour of what he termed " modified leaves " ; the observations wrere made in Oxford , and involved the use of a special double rheotome ; the capillary electrometer was also employed , and photographic records of the excitatory electrical changes are given in the paper .
The observations show several interesting facts , but the chief points brought out refer to the so-called " modification , " which is produced in a leaf when it is subjected to the flow of even a weak voltaic current .
The modification reveals itself as a permanent alteration in the amount , and even the sign of the electrical state of the inactive leaf-surface .
It is localised to Sir John Scott Burdon-Sanderson , Bart. xiii the part which the modifying current has traversed , and is associated with a remarkable diminution in the high electrical resistance of the tissue , this diminution being strictly confined to the modified region .
Finally , the records give demonstrative proof that , when any such modified area is thrown into the active state , either by direct stimulation , or by the arrival of a propagated excitatory wave aroused elsewhere , then the electrical response in this area , whilst it has the same time relations , may be entirely changed as regards its sign .
This extraordinary reversal is related to the sign of the inactive tissue , and , when through a modifying agency this is altered , then the sign of the active change may be similarly reversed .
From the constancy of this relationship , Burdon-Sanderson inferred " that the constantly operative electromotive forces , which find their expression in the persistent difference of potential between the opposite ( leaf ) surfaces , and those more transitory ones , which are called into existence by stimulation , have the same seat , the opposition between them being in accordance with the general principle that , whereas the property which renders a structure capable of undergoing the excitatory change is expressed by relative positivity , the condition of discharge is expressed by relative negativity .
" Between the first and second papers on Dionaea he had , whilst at University College , London , pursued the same method of inquiry in the cardiac muscular tissue of the frog .
His investigations upon this subject are set forth in a paper published in 1880 in the 'Journal of Physiology .
' These researches have been taken as a model for most subsequent work of this character , whatever the tissue which has been utilised for such electro-physiological investigations .
The paper is entitled " The Time-relations of the Excitatory Process in the Ventricle of the Heart of the Frog , " and was followed three years later by one " On the Electrical Phenomena of the Excitatory Process in the Heart of the Frog and of the Tortoise , as Investigated Photographically .
" In both these investigations he had the assistance of Mr. F. J. M. Page .
The whole research has been long regarded as classical , through the exactitude of the methods of observation , the rigorous determination of the influence of various surroundings or accessory factors , and the lucid interpretation of the phenomena .
It conclusively demonstrated that the diphasic effect ( or change of electrical sign ) which is observed when two contacts are placed on the uninjured surface of the frog 's heart , is the algebraic sum of two monophasic electromotive changes each of similar sign but developed successively one under each of these two contacts .
Hence it is not an indication of the occurrence of opposite types of tissue change , but is simply the expression of a similar type of monophasic change occurring at different times in different localities .
Finally , he demonstrated that the reason why the change begins under one contact before it occurs under another one , is solely because the excitatory state , like the muscular contraction , is propagated in the differentiated cells which compose the cardiac tissue .
For these researches he was , in 1883 , awarded a Royal Medal .
xiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
After his appointment to the Oxford Chair in 1882 , Burdon-Sanderson had to brave the turmoil of an opposition in which an antivivisectionist outery was utilised .
This opposition was directed successively against a proposed expenditure of \#163 ; 1,500 for apparatus in 1882 , and of \#163 ; 10,000 in 1883 for erecting an appropriate physiological laboratory .
In 1884 it culminated in an attempt to throw out the decree authorising a maintenance grant of \#163 ; 500 a year for the incidental expenses of the newly erected Physiological Department .
The details of the scenes which were associated with the debates upon the subject in Convocation are now almost forgotten , and it is unprofitable to revive them .
It will be sufficient in this memoir to say that , in spite of the virulent character of the feeling displayed by his opponents , it was generally felt that Burdon-Sanderson came through the storm with , if anything , an added dignity , both opponents and supporters being impressed by his self-control under circumstances which might have justly provoked his resentment .
One who knew him well at this time , Sir William Church , wrote that he would " never forget his striking face and figure as he stood quietly leaning against the wall of the Sheldonian Theatre during the momentous debate in Convocation on February 5 , 1884 .
" The establishment of Burdon-Sanderson in Oxford , with the erection of the Physiological Laboratory , and thus the foundation of that scientific study which used to be called the Institutes of Medicine , may be regarded as the third landmark in his career .
It is true that it was to Sir Henry Acland that Oxford owes the idea of resuming its part in medical education , but with Sanderson 's arrival the creation of the Oxford Medical School passed from a fruitful idea into reality , and it is now generally recognised that he achieved the end for which he left London by establishing on an enduring , because a scientific , foundation , the Oxford Medical School .
He thus enjoyed the rare felicity of living to see the purpose which he had so much at heart , in all essentials , attained .
An excellent Department of Human Anatomy was erected during his Physiological Professorship , and when , in 1895 , he resigned the Physiological Chair , on his being nominated Eegius Professor of Medicine , he devoted his energies towards the efficient equipment of pathology .
The scientific progress of this subject had always been one of his great aims , and his satisfaction was unbounded when , through the stimulus of a generous donor , the University acknowledged its importance and erected an adequate laboratory .
He gave not only time and thought but material help towards the task of making this new University department an efficient one , and left in his will the sum of \#163 ; 2,000 in the hands of trustees " for the support of the Laboratory of the Pathological Department of the University of Oxford and specially to provide for the expenses of research in pathology conducted in the said laboratory or elsewhere .
" The most extensive of the researches which he carried out at Oxford were upon muscle .
In order to obtain exact records of the electromotive changes during muscular activity , he devoted great attention to the working out of au adequate method .
Inspired by his enthusiasm , Burch took in hand the Sir John Scott Bur don-Sanderson , Bart. xv capillary electrometer , greatly improving its construction and developing a method by means of which the graphic records of its well-known displacement could be interpreted with accuracy .
It thus became possible to construct , from the actual photographic records , other derived curves which should faithfully display the variations in the potential difference of a tissue even when these variations were of very brief duration .
The whole method was elaborated by Burdon-Sanderson with scrupulous attention to accuracy of detail ; he left it the most exact method of its kind employed in this or any other country , and the utility of the technique has now received ample acknowledgment from all those who are engaged in investigations upon the electromotive phenomena displayed by excitable tissues .
Others , inspired by his example and encouraged by his help , have applied the method with success for the elucidation of the electromotive changes occurring in nervous and other tissues , including those which are found in the electrical organs of fishes .
As regards the last-named structures , Burdon-Sanderson himself visited Arcachon in 1886 , St. Andrew 's in 1887 and Plymouth in 1888 , in order to investigate the electrical organs of fishes , and published , in conjunction with F. G-otch , two papers upon the electrical organ of the Skate in the 'Journal of Physiology .
' The results of the investigations upon muscle are given in the papers which he published in the ' Journal of Physiology , ' and a comprehensive account of the work and of his conceptions as to the excitatory process in this structure , is set forth in the third of his Croonian lectures .
This lecture , delivered in 1899 , was entitled " The Relation of Motion in Animals and Plants to the Electrical Phenomena associated with it .
" It deals first with the technique by means of which he endeavoured to obtain precise information and then sets forth the main results obtained by its employment in Dionsea and in striped muscle .
The electrical response is described in various forms of muscular contraction such as twitch , tetanus and reflex activity , also in the peculiar condition produced by veratria .
In summarising the indications which the phenomena seemed to him to afford , he stated that " in striated muscle the primary effect of every excitation is a process of oxidation having its seat at the excited part .
It may be surmised that this consists of two stages , namely , liberation of previously intramolecular oxygen , and actual oxidation .
" He further concludes that " the monophasic variation may be taken as the type from which all other forms of response to stimulation may be derived , either by repetition , prolongation or interference .
" An interesting point for electro-physiologists is associated with the concluding sentence , which affirms that he believes the " muscle current " to be " the manifestation of processes which have their seat at the surface of contact between electrode and living muscle " ; he thus definitely adopted the view which is termed " prse-existent " as opposed to the " alteration " conceptions of Hermann .
The work upon reflex muscular activity was continued almost up to the time of his death ; a brief note relating to xvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
the phenomena of strychnia tetanus in the ' Proceedings of the Physiological Society ' of 1902 , is , however , the only publication on the subject , although a large mass of information had been obtained .
It is only possible within the limits of this notice to allude quite briefly to the many suggestive articles and addresses which are scattered along the years of his scientific activity .
They are chiefly related to the consideration of pathological and physiological subjects ; notable ones are the Addresses delivered as Sectional President at the British Association in 1872 , 1881 , and 1889 , the Address on the Cellular Pathology of To-day , delivered to the Thirteenth International Medical Congress at Paris in 1900 , and the masterly Address , delivered in 1893 at Nottingham , as President of the British Association .
Among his pathological articles , probably the most conspicuous is that on " Inflammation , " in Holmes ' ' System of Surgery/ which , although written early in the seventies , is still accepted as the classical utterance upon this subject .
An extensive article of a physiological character was written in 1900 for the 'Textbook of Physiology/ on " The Mechanical , Thermal and Electrical Properties of Striped Muscle .
" Viewing his scientific work as a whole , the most remarkable feature which it presents is the breadth of its scope : sanitary science , practical hygiene , medicine , pathology , bacteriology , botany and physiology have all been enriched by his activity .
If one of these branches can be selected as having been more particularly illuminated by his genius , the choice must fall on pathology .
In this his influence was unique ; he was ahead of all his contemporaries in this country , both in conception and in method , and by leading his successors into the true path\#151 ; that of experimental investigation\#151 ; he endowed English pathology with purpose , and gave this subject , as regards this country , its proper scientific status .
His influence upon physiology , although profound , was not of such an epoch-making character ; in one respect , however , it has been most marked , and that is in connection with the methods now adopted by all physiological teachers .
It has been suggested that Burdon-Sanderson was great as an original investigator rather than as a teacher , but this suggestion is far from being borne out by fact .
A great teacher is to be judged by the ability and subsequent eminence of his students and by the radical alterations which he has been able to initiate in teaching methods ; from both these points of view Burdon-Sanderson achieved greatness .
His lectures were extraordinarily suggestive , whilst his personality and grace of expression held his audience .
But a more solid tribute to his teaching capacity is the change in teaching which he was the first to effect , and which consisted in the introduction into the students ' course of practical work and thus of the experimental method .
As Jodrell Professor in University College , London , he organised classes for the practical study of physiological chemistry and of the phenomena of muscle and nerve .
The printed syllabus of the work to be done formed an appendix to the published synopsis of his physiological lectures ; it was the first of its kind , and inaugurated a system of practical instruction which now forms part of the routine work in every University existing in this country .
Eor Sir John Scott Bur don-Sanderson , Bart. xvii many years the methods employed by him for the teaching of students were , in this respect , in advance of those which existed upon the Continent .
The stress which he laid upon this part of physiological training was the logical outcome of his firm belief in the application of experimental methods to medical science .
Quite apart from the obvious advantages which such practical teaching offers through its facilitating the acquisition of certain facts , work of this character by students appeared to him of the utmost value in engendering a mental attitude of primary importance .
He believed that it cultivated those powers of observation , experimental inquiry and reflection , in regard to living phenomena , which have subsequently to be brought to bear on the human subject by all those who undertake the responsible duties of clinical practice .
Throughout the whole of his life he held that , since medical science remained inexact and empirical unless it rested upon the sure foundation of physiological and pathological knowledge , and since this knowledge could itself be advanced only by experimental methods , the highest interests of society were bound up with the practice of such methods .
Whether or not infectious diseases are a product of civilisation , they are certainly fostered by man 's social habits and communicated by him to animals , and the responsibility lies with man to utilise to the utmost his mental powers for their removal or delimitation .
This responsibility was appreciated in its fullest extent by Burdon-Sanderson , and all his work and teaching was tinged with his endeavour to faithfully discharge the trust which his position and mental powers involved .
He had in consequence an earnestness of purpose which was felt by all those who came under his influence .
The words in which he set forth , in 1896 , the greatness of Ludwig as a teacher , are applicable to himself : men , many of whom were already nearly of his own age , rallied round him , " attracted in the first instance by his discoveries , they were held by the force of his character , and became permanently associated with him in his work as his loyal friends and followers , in the highest sense his scholars .
" The large number of his students who now hold official appointments in connection with medicine , surgery , hygiene , pathology , and physiology , will acknowledge the truth which the foregoing sentence expresses .
The present writer is one of those who , as a student , came , in 1874 , under the sway of his inspiring personality , and on reflecting as to the various factors which gave this sway its extraordinarily potent character , it would appear that the following features may be specially distinguished .
His commanding appearance and striking individuality , the intellectual beauty of his face , which is so well displayed in the print copied from a photograph taken by Miss Acland , at Oxford ; the peculiar charm of his manner and diction ; the sympathetic interest with which he followed the work and thought of others , young or old ; above all , that earnestness of purpose to which allusion has been already made .
Like Ludwig , he strove to unite bis life-work as an investigator with the highest kind of teaching .
" This life-work , extending for over fifty years , coincided with what is generally regarded as the most VOL. lxxix.\#151 ; b. c xviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
eventful period in science ; it is undoubted that as regards biology , physiology , and pathology , the latter half of the nineteenth century has been creative .
The propitious moment in these provinces of science arrived about the year 1850 , and with the birth of the new movement came the men fitted by their endowments to accelerate its progress .
The part which Burdon-Sanderson took in directing the course of this movement as regards pathology and physiology , stamps him as one of those masters who mould the thought of a generation .
Various distinctions , unsought by him but valued as indicating public appreciation of work done for science , were bestowed upon him .
He was selected on five different occasions to serve on the Council of the Society , was awarded a Royal Medal , was appointed Croonian Lecturer on three separate occasions , was the recipient of many honorary degrees , was made a member of the chief Foreign Scientific Academies , and in 1899 was created a baronet .
His appreciation of these distinctions caused no change in those traits which endeared him to the large circle of his friends , for he always retained that charming simplicity of character and of life which , when associated with great intellectual gifts , increases the affectionate and reverent regard of others .
He was a man of wide sympathies , intellectual and artistic , with an appreciative taste in art and music which was only realised by his more intimate friends .
The breadth of his views and the commanding position which he held in the scientific world augmented the regard in which he was held by the University of Oxford and by the particular society , Magdalen College , with which he was associated for twenty-three years , first as Professorial and later as Honorary Fellow .
The peculiar charm of his individuality and character secured the devoted attachment of a wider circle .
There are many to whom he was that " true friend to whom you may impart griefs , joys , fears , hopes , suspicions , counsels , and whatsoever lies upon the heart to oppress it , " many to whom the memory of his intimate friendship will remain as one of the abiding joys of life .
During his tenure of the Regius Professorship of Medicine at Oxford , the condition of his health was several times such as to cause his friends much uneasiness , and particularly when , at the close of the year 1903 , he felt compelled to resign the Chair .
It was a source of unbounded satisfaction to him to realise that , by the appointment of Dr. Osier as his successor , the continued development of medical study in Oxford was assured , and that the task set before him when he left London in 1882 was practically accomplished .
For him , as for many others who have spent their lives in the service of science , the words of Bacon form an appropriate epitaph\#151 ; " But , believe it , the sweetest Canticle is Nunc dimittis , when a man hath obtained worthy ends and expectations .
" F- G. ( The photograph which is reproduced in the frontispiece to this account was taken by Miss Acland , at Oxford , in the year 1894 , who kindly lent the negative for the use of the collotypers .
) XIX HENRY BENEDICT MEDLICOTT , 1829\#151 ; 1905 .
Half a century ago , our knowledge of the Geology of India was very small Some traverses of the Himalayas had been made , and notes had been published of portions of the Peninsula of India ; fossils had been recorded and described from Spiti , the Salt Range , Sind , Cutch , Trichinopoly , and a few other localities ; coal had been found and to some extent worked , but very little was really known of the different formations or of their relations to each other .
A comparison of Dr. Carter 's ' Summary of the Geology of India between the Ganges , the Indus , and Cape Comorin , ' published in 1853 , or of Greenough 's geological map ( 1854 ) , with the Manual of the Geology of India issued in 1879 , and with the map accompanying it , will show the great difference between the knowledge of Indian Geology at the two periods .
Amongst the men who originated the Geological Survey of India and by whom the great improvement in our acquaintance with the geology of the country was secured , a leading position was taken by Henry Medlicott .
More of the numerous errors which had become almost stereotyped amongst Indian geologists were corrected by him than by any other surveyor .
To take one example only .
In the Peninsula of India there are , in the classification adopted in the Manual , the following groups of formations below the great Deccan basaltic series ( Upper Cretaceous and Lower Tertiary ) :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Metamorphic or Gneissic ; ( 2 ) Transition ; ( 3 ) Vindhyan ; ( 4 ) Gondwana ; the ( 5 ) Marine Jurassic and ( 6 ) Cretaceous beds being confined with one unimportant exception to coastal fringes .
The Vindhyan and all below it are now believed to be pre-Cambrian ; the Gondwana ranges from Upper Palaeozoic to Lower Cretaceous .
Now in the 1854 ' Summary of the Geology , ' all the Vindhyan and Gondwdna , various portions of the Transition Rocks and most of the known limestones from Metamorphic to Cretaceous were assigned to the " Oolitic Series .
" In his first season 's work with his brother , J. G. Medlicott , Henry Medlicott distinguished the pre-Cambrian Vindhyan from the Gondwana , thus at once clearing the way for further progress .
In his first published Memoir he arranged in sequence the Vindhyan , Sub-Kymore or Lower Vindhyan and Bijawar or Transition of Bundelkhand , and distinguished all from the Gneissic Series .
In his next Memoir he classified the rocks of the Himalayas , both the Siwaliks and Nahuns , resting on the Nummulitic SuMthu group , and the ancient hill rocks , Krol and Blaini , associated with the older formations of the mountains .
Henry Benedict Medlicott was born in Loughrea , County Galway , Ireland , on August 3 , 1829 .
He was the second of three sons of the Rev. Samuel c 2 xx Obituary Notices'of Fellows deceased .
Medlicott , Eector of Loughrea , and of Charlotte , daughter of Colonel H. B. Dolphin , C.B. ; his elder brother , Joseph G. Medlicott , was also for several years on the Staff* of the Geological Survey of India .
Henry Medlicott was educated in France , Guernsey , and Dublin , where he graduated in Trinity College and took the degree of B.A. in 1850 , with diploma and honours in the School of Civil Engineering .
He took the M.A. degree in 1870 .
He was thus from his early education an excellent French Scholar , and his acquaintance with the classical works of the great French geologists may be often traced in his writings .
In 1851 he joined the Geological Survey in Ireland , and in 1853 he was transferred to the English Survey where , for a time , he worked with Mr. Aveline in Wiltshire .
He was next engaged by Dr. Oldham and joined the Indian Geological Survey , then occupied in the Eajmahal Hills at or near Bhagalpur on March 24 , 1854 .
His brother , J. G , Medlicott , had joined the survey a year or two earlier .
Before , however , Henry Medlicott had commenced field work , he was appointed , in August , 1854 , by the Court of Directors of the East India Company , Professor of Geology in Burki College , and he remained in this post till October , 1862 , when on some additions being made to the staff of the Geological Survey , he rejoined it as Deputy Superintendent for Bengal .
During his tenure of the Burki Professorship , however , he did most important work in field geology .
By an arrangement with Dr. Oldham he was allowed to occupy the field season in surveying , and thus he was enabled to examine parts of the Nerbudda Valley and Bundelkhand in 1854\#151 ; 55 and in 1856\#151 ; 57 , whilst in the other years he was engaged in working out the geology of the Lower Himalayas between the Ganges and the Eavi ( Hardwar to Dalhousie ) , and of the Siwalik Beds and their associates at the base of the mountains .
In 1857 he served as a Volunteer with the garrison of Eurki against the mutineers of the Bengal Army , and on the close of the Campaign was awarded the Indian Mutiny Medal for Special Service .
An instance of the service rendered may be added here .
Eurki during the outburst of the Sepoy mutiny was isolated , like most of the small garrisons in the Upper Provinces , where the natives of the villages were associated with the rebels .
Ho European could possibly traverse the country in safety .
News was received at Eurki one day of a Christian family who were held by the villagers as prisoners at a few miles distance , and who were in imminent danger of being killed .
It was arranged that Henry Medlicott and one European companion should go out with an escort of Sowars to endeavour to rescue these unfortunate people , but on the day before the attempt the Sowars showed signs of mutiny and were disarmed .
Medlicott and his companion , whose name appears now impossible to trace , left in the morning , and by sheer pluck , at the risk of their lives , succeeded in bringing back the imprisoned people in safety , the villagers apparently being so astonished at two Europeans coming among them that they surrendered their prisoners .
Only the outline of the story can be now Henry Benedict Medlicott .
xxi recovered ; it was told to the present writer in 1866 by Colonel Baird Smith , who commanded the Burki Garrison in 1857 .
On October 27 , also in 1857 , Mr. Medlicott was married at Landour to Louisa , daughter of the Rev. I ) .
H. Mannsell .
He has had three sons and three daughters ; only one son and one daughter , together with his wife , survive him .
The surviving son is a Civil Engineer in the Pubic Works Department of the Indian Government ; the two who have been lost were one in the Civil Service of India and one in the Royal Engineers .
After rejoining the staff of the Geological Survey in 1862 , Mr. Medlicott was engaged for many years , first in one part of the country then in another , generally by himself , though occasionally in charge of a party , in enquiring into economical problems or in investigating geological questions , and not unfrequently in clearing up difficulties that had proved too serious for his predecessors .
In 1862\#151 ; 63 he was in South Rewah , in 1863\#151 ; 64 in Behar , in 1864\#151 ; 65 he traversed Assam , from the Khasi Hills to the farthest eastern extremity of the province , in 1865\#151 ; 66 he was engaged in Central India and Rajputana .
In other years he examined various tracts of Northern India from the Jamu Hills of Kashmir , the Satpura ranges of the Central Provinces and Chattisgarli to the Garo Hills in Assam .
Twice he officiated as Superintendent of the Survey during Dr. Oldham 's absence on leave , once in 1870 for a short period , and in 1873\#151 ; 74 for 17 months .
On April 1 , 1876 , Mr. Medlieott succeeded Dr. Oldham as head of the Department , and from that time the duties of his office kept him mainly in Calcutta .
The title of Superintendent was altered to that of Director in 1885 , but the change was confined to the title .
Dr. Oldham had been in weak health for some time before he retired , and he naturally left many arrears for his successor to carry out .
Eoremost amongst these was the preparation of a general account of Indian geology .
This had long been required ; a mass of scattered papers and reports , not a few of which were in MS .
, represented about a quarter of a century 's progress with the systematic examination of Indian geology , and before those who had helped from the beginning had left India for good , it was essential that they should prepare for their successors a record of work in which they had taken part .
Moreover , until a general description of the country , as a whole , was compiled , it was impossible for any one either in India or in Europe , without an enormous amount of labour , to gain a correct idea of its geological features .
Henry Medlicott at once set to work at this general account , and dividing the chapters between Mr. Blanford and himself , brought it to a conclusion in 1879 and published the ' Manual of the Geology of India , ' with a map , in that year .
It is unnecessary to point out the great importance of this book , nor the assistance it has afforded , not merely to Indian geologists but to those throughout the world .
This , however , is only one of the subjects to which the new Superintendent of the Survey devoted his attention .
Of the effect of his superintendence on the work of the staff a fair example may be furnished by the survey publications .
xxii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
From 1877 the records which , as describing recent work , are the best illustrations of survey progress , doubled in size , and they certainly did not fall off in the importance of the contributions printed , either economical or scientific .
Besides these Mr. Medlicott edited , during his tenure of office , about 10 volumes of the Memoirs and numerous parts of the PalEeontologia Indica , comprising Dr. Feistmantel 's descriptions of Gondwana plant fossils , most of Mr. Lydekker 's accounts of the Siwalik and other vertebrata , and the largest portion of Dr. Waagen 's great work on the Salt Range fossils , and of the descriptions of Tertiary Corals and Echinoderms from Western India by Dr. Duncan and Mr. Percy Sladen .
There was the same thorough progress in other directions : for instance , in the arrangement of the Museum and of the Survey Office .
His work absorbed him entirely ; living almost the life of a hermit , and confining himself to his office , he devoted all his time to the Survey .
He was a man of a retiring disposition originally , not in the least from want of energy or courage , but because the social pursuits of men in general did not attract him ; he had , in fact , something of the ascetic temperament .
During his life at the Museum , he not merely lived alone on the poorest of fare , but he scarcely quitted the building .
In the evening he took exercise on the roof .
He had retained some early habits , such as walking bare foot , and long after he left Calcutta , a path along the flat Museum roof , worn by his naked feet , could still be traced .
As a\#187 ; young man he had been strong and active , and amongst other traits had acquired the power , not often possessed by Europeans , of sitting like a native of the East on his heels .
His method of living he rarely cared to explain , though as a fact , whilst his own living expenses were reduced to a minimum , far below the usual minimum of Anglo-Indians , he was providing for several relatives and not merely for his own family .
The death of his brother , too , had added to a considerable extent to his responsibilities .
After the completion of his 55th year , in 1884 , Mr. Medlicott was- retained by the Government of India in his office until 1887 .
He retired on April 27 in that year , having served almost continuously for rather more than 33 years .
He was only on leave for six months in 1865 , less than six months in 1871 , and again six months in 1884 , or 18 months during the whole period of service .
Since his retirement he lived very quietly at Clifton , near Bristol , and had taken but little part in scientific discussion , though always keenly interested in the progress of the Indian Survey .
His time , as long as he remained in good health , was mainly devoted to philosophical problems , to which he had always been devotedly attached .
He published two short pamphlets on " Agnosticism and Faith , " in 1888 , and on " The Evolution of Mind in Man , " in 1892 , and was engaged on a larger work which has not been finished .
A few years since , a strain caused by bicycling , when , with characteristic energy and determination , he had resolved that he would not be beaten by a particular hill , led to serious heart symptoms , and , although for a time a partial recovery was made , a relapse early in 1904 reduced him greatly .
Henry Benedict Medlicott .
xxiii The end came quietly on April 6 , 1905 , when he was seated in his study .
Henry Medlicott joined the Geological Society of London in 1856 , and received the Wollaston Medal in 1888 , on his retirement from the Indian Service .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1877 .
He was a Fellow of Calcutta University , and from 1879 to 1881 he was President of the Asiatic Society of Bengal .
He was also an Honorary Fellow of several Foreign Scientific Societies , but he never made use of his titles , which he regarded as simply " official .
" It may be remarked that he carefully omits the letters F.R.S. after his name in all his survey publications , and even in the " Manual " he struck out the initials after his own name , whilst leaving them after his colleague 's .
Throughout his career , in fact , he appears almost unnecessarily to have disregarded the honours to which he was entitled for brilliant original work as well as good official service .
His policy as head of the Survey was to assist his colleagues in every way to publish the account of their observations in their own words .
Occasionally the result was that their views drew upon the authors replies from other officers who took different views , or from geologists who had another opinion on the subject .
This was especially the case in palaeontological questions , on which he never pretended to decide difficult points .
The policy adopted is perhaps not quite in accordance with official usage , but there can be no doubt that the result of Mr. Medlicott 's principle was to bring out the facts in a discussion , and not infrequently in a difficulty of high scientific and economical importance , as in the various disputes over the Gondwana flora .
And not only did he obtain the help of the staff of the Survey in forwarding the progress of Indian geology , but he succeeded in securing the valuable assistance of the late General McMahon and others , who contributed observations on subjects of high interest in the geological history of the Indian Empire .
That he contributed no lengthy memoirs of his own , was simply due to the fact that he regarded with horror any attempts to gain credit by others ' work .
Short notes and an annual report were for many years his principal contributions to the Survey publications .
He was not a fluent writer , though he could write strongly and earnestly , never so strong as when he was dealing with attempts at injustice or plausible but misleading statements .
He was absolutely fearless , and cared but little of whose pet theory he was disposing , if the theory was in his opinion worthless .
It is difficult to appreciate Henry Medlicott 's work in India without some acquaintance with the knowledge of the geology available when he entered the service .
So great a change has taken place in the half century that has elapsed since 1854 , that it is scarcely possible to reconstruct the conditions under which geological surveying was carried out 50 years ago .
There were no railroads and very few roads .
Travelling was difficult and very slow , the early surveyors had often to make their own maps in the wilder parts of the country .
Some idea of the Geology known in the days before the Survey may be gained from Dr. H. J. Carter 's ' Summary , ' which appeared in the same xxiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
year that Mr. Medlicott landed in India .
In this remarkable work limestones from every formation in India , from metamorphic to the Bagh and Intertrappean beds , are included in the " Oolitic Series .
" An equally remarkable confusion is shown upon Greenough 's Geological Map of India .
Nothing had been done to clear up the nebulous condition of Indian Geology before 1854 .
Henry Medlicott 's first season in India was signalized by the earliest and most important step in the classification of the Peninsular rocks , when he and his brother separated the Vindhyans north of the Nerbudda Valley from the Gondwanas to the south .
The name Vindhyan was given by Dr. Oldham , who , however , when announcing the discovery , * stated that the separation had been made by the Medlicotts before he visited the country .
In the first memoir he wrote , in Vol. 2 of the Memoirs , Henry Medlicott reduced the whole mass of Vindhyan , Infra-Vindhyan , and Bijawar rocks that extend throughout Bundelkhand to a sequence which has received no great subsequent alteration , the principal change* perhaps , being in the substitution of the term Lower Vindhyans for Sub-Khymores .
This masterly paper , though published in a most imperfect condition , ill-arranged , and not very clearly written , was not only the beginning of our accurate knowledge of the Vindhyan and Infra-Vindhyan rocks , but laid a firm foundation on which much has since been built .
Prom his earliest work to his latest , these wonderful azoic rocks of India were Mr. Medlicott 's especial favourites , perhaps because all the knowledge of them was derived from purely physical observations , and not interfered with by organic remains , which in the later Gondwanas have not always proved an accurate indication of the age of the beds or their relations to each other .
Throughout his writings in India , and throughout the Annual Reports issued during his Directorship , point after point is brought up tending to the correlation of these formations in various parts of India , and showing the relations between Karnul and Cuddapah , Kaladghi , Gwalior , and many other similar rocks on the one hand , and the Vindhyan and Bijawar on the other .
His next great .
work was the arranging of the rocks of the Lower Himalayas in the Simla and neighbouring area and of the Siwalik rocks and their associates at the base of the mountains , and the sketching of the geological history of the Himalaya range on a definite geological basis .
The first has been one of the most difficult questions in Indian geology , and although the work was commenced in 1855 , it cannot be regarded even now as nearly solved .
The Tertiary Himalayan Beds have , however , been regarded as fairly classified since Mr. Medlicott 's Memoir was published in 1864 .
The important observations made in this Memoir are essentially physical .
The demonstration that Himalayan elevation is shown by the relations of the Lower Nummulitics and the older hill rocks not to have begun before Tertiary times , and the beautiful illustrations proving the permanence of the great river valleys by their coincidence with the * ' Journ. Asiat .
Soc. Bengal , ' 1856 , vol. 25 , p. 250 .
, and more clearly in ' Mem. Geol .
Surv .
Ind. , ' vol. 2 , p. 304 .
Henry Benedict Medlicott .
xxv maximum of conglomerates in the Siwaliks , are amongst the observations that connect our first clear ideas of Himalayan elevation with Henry Medlicott 's work .
It has been already noticed that not unfrequently Henry Medlicott was occupied in clearing up difficulties that had been too great for his predecessors in the Survey .
An illustration may be taken from the geology of the Khasi Hills .
A comparison of his observations as recorded in the seventh volume of the Memoirs should be made with the earlier account of the same area by Dr. Oldham in the first volume .
In the first account , amongst other differences , the bedded Sylhet traps ( Mesozoic ) are not distinguished from the ancient greenstone rocks of the inner hills , and the occurrence of fossiliferous Cretaceous rocks was not recognized ; their fossils , then supposed to have been Nummulitic , having been lost .
The alterations made in the geology by Henry Medlicott may be seen by comparing the map and section , Plate 8 , in Yol .
1 , with the map and section at p. 154 in Vol. 7 .
The earlier observations , it is true , were made in the monsoon , wThen of course the ground was not as well exposed .
Again , the sketch map of the Satpura or Nerbudda coal area as corrected by him in Yol .
10 of the Memoirs may be compared with the earlier map published in Yol .
2 .
It is quite true that the principal discrepancy in this case is easily explained .
J. G. Medlicott , who not merely geologically examined the country but who also to a considerable extent surveyed the map , had practically completed the western portion containing the typical Mahadevas without separating them from the underlying Damudas .
In the early part of 1856 , Dr. T. Oldham , the head of the Survey , went over the field , and almost at the end of the season discovered that the Mahadeva was a separate series .
He desired that this separation should be recorded on the map .
The result is , what may be supposed under the circumstances , complete chaos , from which Henry Medlicott first rescued the mapping of the Gondwanas .
It is scarcely necessary to say that portions of his Report were omitted by the then Superintendent of the Survey from the printed copy , as he has mentioned in the Annual Report for 1880* In fact , throughout his life Medlicott had been the champion of whatever he believed to be founded on scientific truth .
Almost his only important geological paper , outside of the Survey Publications , was that on " The Alps and the Himalayas , a Geological Comparison , " issued in the ' Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society ' for 1868 , Yol .
24 .
This Paper narrowly escaped rejection ; it was postponed for a time , but was finally published .
Nor was this hesitation wonderful , for the paper attacks , and in no doubtful way , the conclusions of all the great Alpine geologists , v. Hauer , Gumbel , Studer , Desor , and others , and there is no question that in the main M'edlicott was right .
Some of the views expressed by him required and have since received revision , but as an original description of mountain-building from a uniformi-* ' Rec .
Geol .
Surv .
Iud .
, ' 1881 , p. 1 .
xxvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
tarian as opposed to a catastrophic point of view , it deserves far more attention than it has received .
There can be no question of his strong uniformitarianism .
One of his objections to some of his colleagues ' work was against the use of faults to explain abrupt boundaries .
It was , however , characteristic of his love of truth that when Mr. R. Oldham found that the typical ISTahun-Siwalik section , to which Henry Medlicott had so long referred as an example of deposition against a pre-existing cliff , might after all be a simple fault , he revisited the section and in the simplest manner admitted that he had misunderstood it .
Only those who remember the whole controversy about faults can have an idea of how great a blow to his theories this must have been , and from some experience of Directors of Surveys , there are few of whom it could be said , that an error of so much importance was so frankly acknowledged .
On the larger question , whether , for instance , the great lines terminating the Gondwana basins of Bengal , Orissa , and the Central Provinces are simple faults , or whether they represent the boundaries of the old river valleys in which the Gondwanas were formed , and to which they were limited , these boundaries having subsequently been slightly crushed and dislocated , but not greatly faulted , no complete answer has yet been given .
In some cases at least , for instance , in the Mopani field of the Satpuras , strong evidence was brought forward by Henry Medlicott in favour of his view of original limit , and even in the case of Raniganj , where unquestionably considerable faulting exists , the absence of outliers of the coal-bearing rocks south of the field is a difficulty in supposing that a simple great upthrow alone terminates the Gondwana area .
Between the two authors of the Manual of Indian Geology there was a difference of opinion on this point , and it cannot be said that the question is completely settled .
The above may serve to recall a few of the services of Henry Medlicott to the Geological Survey and to India , and some of the discoveries which he made in science .
It cannot do more than suggest the amount of labour that he devoted to his work .
His memory should remain as a striking example of the thoroughly honest and capable geologist and as a worthy head of a scientific branch of the Indian Government .
W. T. B * * [ A melancholy interest attaches to this Notice by Dr. W. T. Blanford .
It was written by him at the request of the Council , and the proofs were duly sent to him , but they arrived when he was already too ill to look at them , and he died before they could be printed off and published .
His genial sketch of his old friend and colleague was thus the last task he accomplished in his own life.\#151 ; Sec. R.S. ] XXV11 WILLIAM THOMAS BLANFORD , 1832\#151 ; 1905 .
William Thomas Blanford , though much of his working life was spent out of his native land , began and ended his days in London .
He was born on October 7 , 1832 , at 27 , Bouverie Street , in a house which , with the adjoining manufactory , had been built by his father , William Blanford , the site being now occupied by part of the offices of the Daily News .
From private schools at Brighton he went , at the age of 14 , to one in Paris , and there had a serious illness , probably diphtheria , just at the time of the revolution of 1848 .
On leaving school he spent two years at Civita Yecchia in a mercantile house , and on his return to England , in 1851 , joined his father 's business .
But his younger brother , Henry F. Blanford , afterwards the well-known meteorologist , and a Fellow of this Society , had already become a student at the Boyal School of Mines , and the elder one before long yielded to the same attraction , and commenced his studies there in 1852 .
During the vacations they worked at field geology with Bamsay ( afterwards Sir Andrew ) in Wales , and mining , with Smyth ( afterwards Sir Warington ) , in Cornwall .
Each passed out head of the list for his year , obtaining the Duke of Cornwall and the Council Scholarships .
W. T. Blanford , on leaving the school in 1854 , continued his studies at Freiberg in Saxony , but next year both brothers were offered and accepted posts on the staff of the Geological Survey of India , then in charge of Dr. Thomas Oldham , arriving in Calcutta at the end of September .
Early in 1856 they , with an older officer , were sent to examine a coalfield near Talchir , in the province of Orissa , south-west of Calcutta .
The results were important , though the coal was of little value , for they were able to distinguish the measures containing it\#151 ; afterwards called the Damuda series \#151 ; from an upper group which they named the Mahadeva and a lower one , the Talchir , all forming part of the Gondwana system now familiar to geologists .
They also found that the Talchir group contained boulders sometimes 4 or 5 yards in diameter , embedded in a fine silt with smaller stones , facetted and striated , which , they suggested , must have been transported by ice .
For some time the idea of a glacial epoch in late Carboniferous or early Permian times was not received with favour ' , but it has since received ample confirmation.* Afterwards Blanford visited Darjiling , and helped in surveying the Bajmahal Hills , having a narrow escape from a band of mutineers on his return to Calcutta , where he joined the Volunteer Cavalry Guards .
From the later part of 1857 to 1860 he was engaged in resurveying the Raniganj * The subject was fully discussed in W. T. Blanford 's address to the Geological Section of the British Association at Montreal in 1884 .
xxviii Obituary Notices of Fellows .
Coalfield , and in visiting the Trichinopoly district and the Nilgiri Hills , but in the cold season of the latter year he was sent to commence a geological survey in Burma , where he visited Mandelay , not then in British territory , and made zoological collections which added much to the knowledge of the Burmese fauna .
Promoted after a furlough in England in 1862 to be Deputy Superintendent , Blanford had charge of the survey of the Bombay Presidency , where he was engaged for the next four years , also visiting Sind and Cutch .
The position of the Deccan traps in regard to the underlying Cretaceous and the over-lying Nummulitic series was determined , as is described in the sixth volume of the ' Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India .
' In September , 1867 , Blanford was attached to the Abyssinian Expedition to study the geology and zoology of the country .
Landing at Zeila shortly before Christmas , he accompanied the army to Magdala , afterwards remaining for some time in the Bogos province .
On his return to India in the autumn of 1868 he was released from field duties in order to work out his collections , and then spent six months in England to complete his ' Observations on the-Geology and Zoology of Abyssinia .
' After returning to India in the late autumn of 1869 , he visited Sikkim next year with Captain Elwes , getting as far as the Tibetan frontier , and was then engaged in the Godavari Valley and the border of the Madras Presidency , chiefly in the coalfields , returning to Calcutta when the hot weather began .
By this time he had traversed the whole peninsula on foot or on horseback , with the exception of some 20 or 30 miles , from the Arabian Sea near Surat to the Bay of Bengal at Coconada .
In the autumn of 1871 he was ordered to join the Persian Boundary Commission , and after a preliminary voyage to Basra and back started from Gwadar , about 300 miles west of Karachi , marched to Shiraz with Major St. John 's party , and then travelled alone through Ispahan to Teran to join the other one under Sir Richard Pollock .
After a short visit to the Elburz Mountains , he returned to England from Enzeli on the Caspian , by Astrakan , Moscow , St. Petersburg and Berlin to England , arriving at home in September , 1872 .
Here he was obliged to remain on a two years ' leave , , for his health had suffered from the hardships of his work in Persia , but he was fully occupied in preparing the volume on the ' Zoology and Geology of Persia ' for the Reports of the Boundary Commission .
After his return to India at the end of 1874 , he was engaged during the next three years on the geology of Sind , except for a three months exploration of the desert between the Indus and Jodhpur , which he crossed in two directions \ in the former region a continuous series was found to extend from the Cretaceous ( covered by representatives of the Deccan traps ) to the Pliocene .
From 1877 to 1879 , Blanford was chiefly engaged on office work in Calcutta , one part of it being co-operating with Mr. H. B. Medlicott , the Superintendent , in preparing the ' Manual of the Geology of India .
' Then he returned to England on furlough , which was extended William Thomas Blanford .
xxix to two years to enable him to represent the Indian Government at the meeting of the Geological Congress in Bologna .
Returning to India in the autumn of 1881 , he undertook the survey of the country between the Punjab and Quetta , till he was prostrated by a severe attack of fever .
This ultimately obliged him to return to England , where he arrived in April , 1882 .
Under medical advice he retired on pension after 27 years ' service on the Indian Geological Survey , and though after a time he recovered his health , his constitution was less robust than in former days .
Early in 1883 he married Miss Ida Gertrude Bellhouse , and settled at Bedford Gardens , Campden Hill , converting a studio at the back into a library , which was adorned by trophies of the chase collected in India .
Here three children\#151 ; two sons and a daughter\#151 ; were born , and the rest of his life was spent .
He enjoyed good health on the whole , though occasionally liable to slight attacks of gout or bronchitis , but a year or so before his death these attacks became more severe , and signs of failing physical powers , happily unattended by mental weakening , began to make his friends anxious ; but the end came more rapidly than they anticipated , for he passed away after a brief illness on June 23 , 1905 , his last literary work being a notice of his old friend and companion , H. B. Medlicott , contributed to these obituaries .
Release from official duties simply gave Blanford more time for the work which he loved , but Indian zoology now received more attention than geology , although the latter was anything but neglected .
He was also frequently consulted upon survey matters by the authorities in England , and rendered them many services .
He became Secretary to the Geological Society in 1884 , was elected President in 1888 , serving for the usual period of two years , and in 1895 was appointed Treasurer , holding the office till his death .
In 1884 he presided over the Geological Section , when the British Association met at Montreal , and attended the Toronto meeting in 1897 , afterwards joining the party to Vancouver Island .
He took part in the meetings of the International Geological Congress at Bologna , Berlin , London , and Paris , served on the Councils of the Royal , the Geographical , and the Zoological Societies , and was a Vice-President of all .
Before leaving India he had been a President of the Asiatic Society of Bengal , and when visiting Canada he received the degree of LL. D. from the McGill University , Montreal .
The Geological Society awarded him their Wollaston Gold Medal , and the Royal Society marked its appreciation of the value of his Indian researches by conferring on him one of the Royal Medals in 1901 .
He received the Military Medal for the Abyssinian Expedition , the Cross of St. Maurice and St. Lazare in 1881 , and was made a Companion of the Indian Empire as late as 1904 .
Hot many men have made more numerous contributions to scientific literature or bestowed more pains on what they wrote .
His first book , ' Observations on the Geology and Zoology of Abyssinia , ' was published in 1870 .
It begins with a written account of the expedition , and nothing could xxx Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
be better , considering the inevitable difficulties , than the scientific portions .
He had succeeded in determining the true succession of the principal rock systems in Abyssinia and in defining more accurately their character , and he had collected zoological specimens , representing about 350 species of Vertebrata and 500 others , mostly Mollusca .
His second book was the volume in the Report of the Persian Boundary Commission on the ' Zoology and Geology of Persia , ' which maintains the high level of its predecessor and gives a very suggestive account of the physical geology of a region characterised by climatic extremes and a very low rainfall .
The third was his contribution to the 'Manual of the Geology of India , ' equal in bulk to rather more than one of the two descriptive volumes , a work the value of which is universally acknowledged , and the fourth in order were the volume on Mammals and two of those on Birds , contributed to the Fauna of British India , the whole of which series , 17 volumes , he edited for the Government of India .
His shorter papers , according to a list printed in the 'Geological Magazine , '* exceed 175 .
The first , published in 1854 , was geological , a short notice of a section exposed in excavating for the West India Docks .
The first zoological paper ( the fourth of the series ) , written in conjunction with his brother , and published in 1860-1 , was entitled " Contributions to Indian Malacology .
" The papers on the former subject mostly appeared in the publications of the Indian Geological Survey , the ' Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society , ' and the ' Geological Magazine .
' They cover a wide field , physical geology , stratigraphy and palaeontology , but it will suffice to mention three of a more general character , characterised no less by breadth of view than by accurate knowledge of the subjects .
The first , his Address to the Geological Section at Montreal , discussed the occasional conflict between the evidence for geological age derived from marine formations on the one hand and terrestrial ( land and freshwater ) on the other .
The second , the Presidential Address to the Geological Society in 1889 , contained a clear account and some valuable criticisms on the work done at the first and second meetings of the International Geological Congress ; the third , the corresponding address for the next year , was " On the Permanence or otherwise of Ocean Basins .
" In this valuable contribution to a very difficult subject , Blanford exhibits the judicial character of his mind and adopts neither extreme , holding that while the general evidence in favour of the permanence of land areas and of ocean basins is very strong , there are certainly exceptions , where large tracts of the former have been submerged , and this for more than a thousand fathoms , and cases where portions of the latter , now at least that depth , have been raised above the sea to connect distant lands .
His other writings show the same mental qualities , for , in the words of an anonymous writer , " His work in * Decade 5 , vol. 2 ( 1905 ) , p. 1 .
It goes down to 1901 .
I have made great use of this excellent article in drawing up the above notice , because I have been informed on good authority that a near relation of Dr. Blanford supplied many of the facts , and he himself revised the list of publications .
Thomas George Bond Howes .
xxxi every department , whether in zoology , geography or'geology , has been marked by thoroughness and accuracy .
" But if Llanford s death has been a loss to science , it has been even greater to his home circle and his many friends .
Sound in judgment , free from prejudices or any angularities , with a gentle courtesy of manner and a desire to conciliate , nothing could make him depart from his own high standard of honour or the path which his conscience approved .
He was , in short , a man emphatically to be trusted , for he exhibited in the daily work of life the calm courage which had carried him through the difficulties , and sometimes the dangers , of his earlier career , and while the last to seek his own advantage or magnify his own work , he was the first to recognise merit in that of others and ever ready to do them a service .
T. G. B. THOMAS GEORGE BOND HOWES , 1853\#151 ; 1905 .
Thomas George Bond Howes , more commonly known as George Bond Howes , was brought up in his boyhood at a private school .
His education proper he would no doubt himself have attributed to Huxley , with whom he was for many arduous years associated at the Normal School of Science and Royal School of Mines as successively pupil , assistant demonstrator , and deputy professor .
To Huxley 's person and memory he was ever devotedly attached , and in 1895 he succeeded his celebrated master in the professorship of zoology , the duties of which he had been in fact performing for the preceding ten years .
While still Demonstrator of Biology at the Normal School , and at the same time Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at the Medical School of St. George 's Hospital , Howes published , in 1885 , 'An Atlas of Practical Elementary Biology , with a Preface by Professor Huxley , P.R.S. ' In this introductory notice Huxley explains that in 1872 one of his first cares had been the creation of a teaching collection for the use of his students , to contain , " in the first place , a series of preparations and dissections illustrative of every important fact in the structure of the animals and plants selected for study ; and , in the second place , a corresponding series of drawings of the dissections , of large size and executed in such a manner as to facilitate the comprehension of the structures represented .
" In carrying out this important scheme , he candidly adds , " the whole burden of the work has fallen upon my former demonstrator , Mr. T. J. Parker ( now Professor of Biology at Otago ) and Mr. George Howes , who succeeded Mr. Parker , and now holds the office .
" He points out that , ' A Course of Practical Instruction in Elementary Biology , ' xxxii Obituary Notices of Felloivs deceased .
published by himself and Professor Martin in 1875 , needed supplementing by just such an atlas as Howes had supplied , " which , while starting from part of the work with which he has been occupied in our laboratory , contains so many accurate and well-devised additional illustrations that it will be hardly less useful to students who are engaged in the laboratory than to those who work independently of it .
" In 1889 the course of elementary biology above mentioned was itself revised and extended by Howes in collaboration with his friend Dr. Dukinfield Scott , and in 1895 he edited and annotated the translation of Wiedersheim 's 'Bau der Menschen .
' Besides these services to scientific literature , his pen yielded some forty original contributions , of which a -catalogue is given in the ' Proceedings of the Linnean Society ' for the present year ( 1905 ) .
The longest and most important of the series is that which he wrote , in conjunction with Mr. H. H. Swinnerton , ' On the Development of the * Skeleton of the Tuatara , Sphenodonpunctatus , with Remarks on the Egg , on the Hatching , and on the Hatched Young .
' Material for this treatise was supplied him with generous zeal by Professor Dendy , who used with great success his point of vantage for procuring it , while holding the chair of biology in the Canterbury College of the Hew Zealand University .
Eggs of this interesting animal , which is supposed to be " the sole surviving representative of an early and widely ancestral amniote type , " were brought over , with tender care , from Hew Zealand by Mrs. Dendy , and were incubated in the laboratory of the Royal College of Science .
Three out of the six precious specimens ran the full developmental period .
The young Sphenodons made good their own escape by help of the horny shell-breaker with which Hature has provided them , and led an observant and apparently contented life for three or four months .
They then succumbed , it is thought , as occasionally happens with animals far higher in the scale of existence , to the effects of over-feeding or of feeding at a time when they ought to have been asleep .
Hospitality was unthinkingly prolonged by their friends into the period which these lizards or lizard-like creatures should normally have spent in peaceful hibernation .
Among the results arrived at by their elaborate treatise , Howes and Swinnerton consider that they have added " fresh testimony to the belief in the batrachian affinities of the living Sphenodon , " while strengthening the demonstration of its chelonian resemblances and extending them to the Plesiosauria .
" Sphenodon , " they say , " judged from our standpoint , must be regarded as the surviving representative of that group of animals ancestral to all the living Sauropsida , and to at least the Dinosauria , Pterodactyla , and Ichthyosauria of the past , if not of the Mosasauria and Dolichosauria also , and unquestionably intimately related to the Anomodontia .
" They recall the view , much earlier advanced by Howes , * " that a sharp distinction may be drawn between the coraco-sternumof the Batrachia { an and the costal-sternum of the Amniota { a neosternum ) , the existence of which in any Batrachian or Stegocephalian has not been proved .
" In the succeeding para* ' Nature , ' vol. 18 , p , 269 , 1891 .
Thomas George Bond Howes .
xxxiii graph , they say , " And as to the skull , the now well-known fact that , whereas in the Amniota the hypoglossal nerve-bearing region , truncal in origin , is incorporated in the occiput , in the Batrachia these nerves are postoccipital , " once again opens the gap between the Batrachia and Amniota ; indeed , so markedly that " our ideas may be systematised by applying to the former condition the term Archieraniate , and to the latter that of the Syncraniate .
" Finally , they lead up to , but leave open , the question , whether terrestrial vertebrates are descended from batrachian reptiles or reptilian batrachians ; that is , from a group which possessed a coraco-sternum and an archicranium , or from one which possessed a costal-sternum and a syncranium , " structural combinations which go hand in hand .
" Every page of this memoir carries evidence of the extremely careful investigation conducted by the joint authors .
But also it is marked throughout by the distinguishing characters which Howes impressed on his own work .
Acute and fearless criticism is frequent , equally or more frequent are expressions of admiring appreciation .
At every point astonishing familiarity is displayed with the literature of the subject in all its bearings .
The contributions of Germany and Japan , of Belgium and France , and Russia , of England and Hew Zealand and the United States of America , are all weighed in the balance .
A paper is not neglected because it is of ancient date , nor yet because it has only been published " during the passage of this memoir through the press , " or even shortly after the revisal of the proofs .
As may be gathered from his writings in general , Howes found his favourite study in the anatomy of vertebrates , nevertheless , when delivering addresses as President of the Malacological Society , in 1896 and 1897 , he showed a commanding familiarity with all that had been written on the subject of Mollusca .
His addresses as President of the South-eastern Union of Scientific Societies in 1900 , and of Section D of the British Association in 1902 , were equally impressive as the fruit of wonderfully capacious reading combined with high intellectual capacity .
He was , however , by no means a voluminous author , although it might well have been expected that he should be by those accustomed to his voluminous fluency in expounding any topics which appealed to his easily kindled enthusiasm .
Howes was bom on September 7 , 1853 , and may be said to have spent a quiet , unostentatious , and comparatively uneventful life in accumulating and dispensing vast stores of biological knowledge .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1897 .
He was long the treasurer of the Anatomical Society , which he helped to found in 1887 .
From 1895 to 1903 he was the highly efficient zoological secretary of the Linnean Society .
He served on the Council of the Zoological Society , and on its Reorganisation Committee , and was more than once a vice-president .
In everything he undertook it was with him evidently only a question of doing the best work which the situation demanded or permitted ; but it was seemingly without question that he undertook everything which he was asked to undertake .
It is a sort of axiom in the intellectual world that a man may be killed by worry , but not by work .
xxxiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
In the case of Howes , his ungrudging readiness to serve was mated with an ambition to serve supremely well .
It may seem unworthy to describe this noble eagerness as containing in itself the element of worry , and yet one can scarcely help believing that , as a result of too continuous effort , the brain at last gave way beneath the strain of its own restless activity .
Early in 1903 his health broke down , and without any substantial recovery in the interval , he died on the 4th of February , 1905 , in the fifty-second year of his age .
He leaves a widow and daughter , colleagues , distinguished pupils , and many other warm friends , to deplore his loss .
He was a man of religious temper , cheerful , affectionate , generous .
As already explained , the energy of his life was given to science , but not to a lucrative branch of it .
Had his life been prolonged , he might have secured fame by authorship ; as it is , his reputation must largely rest on those whom he successfully trained in his lecture-room and laboratory , and who gratefully acknowledge the debt they owe to his wide learning , his skill as a teacher , his inspiring energy .
There can be little doubt that he long rejoiced in the prodigal expenditure of his great powers , but in the concluding words of a stirring address , which he delivered in 1900 , we may fancy a touch of prophetic pathos and self-allusion when he says , " Higher ambition than that of adding to the sum of knowledge no man can have ; wealth , influence , position , all fade before it ; but we must die for it if our work is to live after us .
" T. R. R. S. XXXV FERDINAND BARON VON RICHTHOFEN , 1833\#151 ; 1905 , Among the active promoters of geology and geography during the last half century , no one has filled a more distinguished place or has had a wider circle of friends and admirers all over the world , than the illustrious Professor in Berlin whose unexpected death on October 6 last sent a thrill of deep regret through every civilised country .
Up to the last he retained so much of his youthful enthusiasm and power of work , that even those who knew him most intimately and could watch him from day to day , saw little sign of old age , and looked forward to a further continuance of his influence and assistance in the scientific progress of future years .
But his end came in the midst of his labours .
As he was working in his wonted place at his writing-table , a sudden seizure deprived him of speech .
It left him , however , so fully conscious that an early recovery was hoped for .
But a little later another stroke came while he was in a profound sleep , and after two days and a half he passed peacefully away without illness or suffering of any kind .
The family to which Baron von Richthofen belonged is one of some position in Silesia , where it owns extensive estates .
Born at Carlsruhe in that country on May 5 , 1833 , he received his early education at the Roman Catholic gymnasium of Breslau , under ecclesiastics of whom he used in later life to speak with respect for their learning and their skill in imparting knowledge ; yet he would refer regretfully to the monotonous restraints imposed by them which , inasmuch as they curbed free and strenuous intercourse among boys , had in his case , as he thought , induced a certain reserve and diffidence which he had in vain endeavoured to overcome .
He would sometimes contrast his school experience with the very different training furnished by the public schools of England .
From school he went to the University of Breslau , and then to that of Berlin , where he took his degree of Dr. Phil , in 1856 .
Before completing his University career , he had already shown his strong bent towards the studies to which his future life wTas to be devoted .
Well grounded in all the main branches of the natural sciences , it was in geological and geographical studies that he took specially absorbing interest .
The writings of Leopold von Buch and Alexander von Humboldt appear to have had a decisive share in directing his course , and he spoke in later years with grateful enthusiasm of his indebtedness to these two great masters .
Von Buch opened out for him the ample fields of geological research .
The glowing pages of Humboldt kindled in him that eagerness for geographical exploration which carried him far and wide in the Old AVorld and in the New .
Perhaps it may have been the influence of the example of these two heroes which drew him at first into the study of ancient volcanic rocks ; for Humboldt had begun his scientific career by writing a little treatise on the basalts of the Rhine , while Von Buch , fresh from the influence of Werner , had found in Landeck and in his early journeys into Italy proof of the aqueous origin which his master had so long claimed for all the basalts of the globe .
Be this as it may , d xxxvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
there can be no doubt that Eichthofen , too , early felt the fascination of the problems presented by volcanic phenomena and ancient igneous rocks .
He began , however , with a somewhat more adventurous flight into that difficult department of Nature than had been attempted by his two geological masters .
He chose as the subject of his thesis for the doctorate a group of igneous rocks , on which he wrote a Latin essay , " De Melaphyro , " and as soon as his University time came to an end , he started off on his first extended scientific investigation , for which he selected the region of Predazzo , St. Cassian , and the Seisser Alp .
His observations on that area were begun in the summer of 1856 , and were continued in subsequent years , but their publication did not take place until 1860 , when they appeared in his remarkable monograph , wherein he arranged the sequence of the formations in that complicated region , discussed the igneous rocks and their successive epochs of eruption , worked out the tectonic arrangement of the several rocks , and propounded the view that the dolomite masses of the Tyrol represent ancient coral-reefs .
During the next three years he had ample opportunities of extending his knowledge and experience of field-work by journeys in the Northern Tyrol , Vorarlberg , North-Eastern Upper Hungary and Transylvania .
His published papers of that period on the intrusive melaphyres of Moravia and on the trachytes of Hungary show how keen was his early interest iu the tectonics and petrography of the igneous rocks , and at what a youthful period of his career he had thoughtfully considered the family relationships of these rocks , and , in particular , the important and independent character of the rhyolites .
At Vienna he came into contact with the distinguished group of geologists and mineralogists who at that time flourished in the Austrian capital .
Among these men he was more especially drawn to Franz Eitter von Hauer , afterwards for so many years the Director and guiding spirit of the Austrian Geological Survey .
It seems to have been as a consequence of this cordial friendship that Eichthofen was induced to become a volunteer on this Survey , and to spend four of the pleasantest and most profitable years of his life in hard systematic field-work among the Eastern Alps .
But his passion for geographical exploration in a wider and less-trodden field than an European mountain-range came at last to be gratified in a wholly unexpected way , whereby the current of his life was at once and permanently changed .
In 1860 he had the good fortune to be chosen scientific member , with the rank of Secretary of Legation , in a Prussian Embassy , sent out to negotiate commercial arrangements with the native States of Eastern Asia .
During this expedition he had an opportunity of spending some months in Japan , and of visiting Formosa , the Philippines , Java , and Siam .
He did not , however , return with his comrades to Europe , but , fired with the desire of making extensive explorations into the heart of the Asiatic continent , he remained behind in the expectation of being able to carry out what had been a long-cherished dream .
But , after some journeys in India and Cashmere , difficulties arising from the disturbed state of China arrested his further progress , so that at last , postponing Ferdinand Baron von Richthofen .
xxxvii his quest for some more favourable occasion , he crossed the ocean to California , with the view of studying the metalliferous and volcanic regions of the western border of North America .
The full development of petrographical types of eruptive rocks in that remarkable territory soon kindled anew his enthusiasm for this department of geology , and furnished him with rich material for study .
As the fruit of this research there appeared , in 1868 , his now classic paper on the " Principles of the Natural System of Volcanic Rocks , " which was published in English , in the first volume of the ' Memoirs ' of the California Academy of Sciences .
In this essay the relations , classification and order of sequence of the rhyolites , trachytes , propylites , andesites , and basalts were clearly expounded .
A philosophical discussion was likewise given of the relations of modern to ancient eruptive rocks , of the origin of volcanic rocks , and of the connection between the distribution of these rocks and the configuration of the surface of the globe .
One notable result of this residence in Western America was to enable the geologist to obtain such a mastery of the English language as is not often reached by a foreign man of science .
The design of Asiatic exploration , though necessarily postponed for a time , had never been laid aside .
Richthofen discussed the subject with some of the American geologists , especially with J. D. Whitney , then in the height of his activity and usefulness as a geological pioneer in the Far West .
At last the bold scheme was planned of making a prolonged geological survey of the interior of China .
On August 3 , 1868 , Richthofen left San Francisco and recrossed the Pacific .
He then began the series of journeys which , during a period of four years , extended over most of the provinces of the Celestial Empire .
He made voluminous notes on the physical geography and geology of that vast region , and on the distribution and condition of its teeming human population .
At the same time he formed an extensive collection of the minerals , rocks , and fossils of the various districts in which he sojourned .
He was the first to reveal to the outer world the wide extent of workable coal in China .
The commercial importance of his observations came to the notice of the European merchants in the East , and with the view of inducing him to continue and complete them , the expenses of his later journeys were partly defrayed by a contribution from the Shanghai General Chamber of Commerce , to which , in 1870 , he forwarded a series of Reports on the economic and commercial aspects of the regions through which he had travelled .
But the large amount of scientific material which he had amassed demanded years of patient elaboration .
He returned to Europe at the end of 1872 , after twelve years of travel , and , settling in Berlin , set to work on the preparation of his monumental work upon China .
The first volume did not appear until 1877 ; the second was published in 1882 , the fourth in 1883 , and the 'Atlas ' in 1885 .
The third volume has never been issued , but it is to be hoped that the large bulk of material collected by the author for its completion may yet be given to the world .
Instead of confining himself to the xxxviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
region actually traversed by himself , Baron von Bichthofen discussed the general physical geography of Central Asia as a whole , and with great skill explained the broad configuration and grouping of the mountain chains of the region .
Among the problems of which he presented a new solution , perhaps the most interesting and important was that of the Loess , which attains such colossal dimensions in the Celestial Empire .
He brought forward a large body of evidence to show that this widespread and thick deposit is of iEolian origin , being due to the transport of dust by the winds .
The fourth volume bears ample witness to his diligence and ability as a field-geologist and collector : it is devoted to the Palaeontology of the scene of his labours , and though he entrusted the determination and description of his fossils to others , it is to his skill and enthusiasm that we owe the establishment of the existence of the Cambrian , Silurian , Devonian , and Carboniferous systems in China .
He it was also who brought to light the Chinese development of the floras of Carboniferous , Jurassic , and Tertiary times .
Richthofen 's geographical prowess was so well recognised , that in 1879 , after the publication of the first volume of his ' China , ' he became Professor of Geography in the University of Bonn .
There he spent four happy years , during which he issued the successive volumes of that work .
It was during this interval that he married Irmgard , daughter of Karl Freihern v. Richthofen , the gracious and accomplished lady to whom he had long been devotedly attached , and who became thenceforward his helpful companion in his work and in his journeys .
As a teacher he soon showed that he possessed preeminent educational gifts , whereby he attracted students around him , kindled in them some of his own enthusiasm , and gave to geography a more defined and a higher place as a mental discipline in the studies of a University .
His success in this sphere led to his being called , in 1883 , to the Professorship of Geography , at Leipzig .
But all who had watched his career realised that before long he must inevitably be withdrawn to Berlin as the national centre where most scope would be found for the development of his schemes as a teacher and organiser of educational methods .
The expected transference took place in 1886 , when he became Professor of Geography at the metropolitan University of Germany .
There he threw himself with all his characteristic originality and ardour into the task of devising and arranging such illustrations of geography as would bring vividly before the eyes and minds of his students , and of the general public , the characteristic features of land and sea , and the appliances for scientific exploration and travel .
In connection with the University a Geographical Institute was organised by him , in which these various collections were arranged , and where ample space was found for large and small lecture rooms , map-drawing rooms , survey-practice rooms , a reference library , and large reading-room , well furnished with current geographical literature in all languages .
In his later years he gave special attention to the illustration of the sea , and succeeded in prevailing on the authorities to build a Museum for Oceanography ( " Meereskunde " ) , in which he sought to Ferdinand Baron von Richthofen .
xxxix display , by help of charts , maps , models , paintings , diagrams , and apparatus , every feature of the sea which is capable of such illustration .
Nor did he confine his efforts to a strictly scientific field : all that could help to convey a sense of the practical work of navigation and exploration , or quicken the popular interest in the navy , came within the scope of his aims .
He journeyed through the maritime countries of Europe in search of the best examples of illustration for his purpose\#151 ; models of ships of all ages , methods of shipbuilding , and types of intruments employed in navigation .
For spaciousness and even luxuriousness of accommodation , for breadth of conception and for the completeness with which the designs have been carried out , there is probably no geographical establishment in the world that can equal the Geographical Institute of Berlin , planned and carried out by the genius and unwearied enthusiasm of its Director .
For many years he had taken keen interest in the welfare of the Geographical Society of Berlin , and when he returned to the capital as his permanent home , he had an opportunity of devoting his practical energies to its improvement .
He introduced several reforms in its organisation , and communicated to it so much of his own personal activity and enthusiasm as eventually to place it in the distinguished position which it now holds among the geographical institutions of our time .
Beginning his career with geological studies in the field , Baron von Richthofen passed into geographical investigation with the inestimable advantage of a training in detailed observation and induction .
He thus became a geographer of the highest type .
To him the mere addition of so many hundred square miles of territory to what was already known of the earth 's surface , and the opportunity of affixing the names of friends and benefactors to peaks , promontories , rivers , and inlets were matters of no moment ; it was the grand features of land and sea that interested him , their origin , their history , their relations to each other , their influence on the progress and destiny of mankind .
His geological apprenticeship with the Austrian surveyors among the Eastern Alps , and his early researches in mountain-structure and the behaviour of igneous rocks , could hardly fail to give him that grasp of physical features , combined with that knowledge of detail which are so often lacking in travellers and explorers .
But besides his scientific accomplishments he possessed in rare measure the personal qualities which go so far to ensure the success of an explorer\#151 ; health and strength alike of body and mind , a wide range of natural knowledge , courage , patience , endurance , tact , and kindliness .
It may have been the consciousness of the possession of these qualities , combined with a recollection of the pleasure which their exercise had given him in his varied wanderings in Europe , America , and Asia , that led him , in response to many requests , to give a course of popular lectures on scientific travel .
These lectures he subsequently extended , and in 1886 , the year of his transference to Berlin , amidst all his University and other work , they appeared as his admirable ' Frihrer fur Forschungsreisende .
' No one but a born and trained explorer , who had enjoyed xl Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
ample experience by flood and fell all over the globe , could have written such a volume , so full of the ripest practical knowledge , so broad in its conception of what exploration should be , and so clear and emphatic in its statement of the accomplishments which are needed for the making of a successful traveller .
Every department of research is luminously presented in his chapters , which may be regarded as a contribution of the first importance to geology and physical geography .
Among the shrewd pieces of advice in the book the author recommends the explorer to travel alone , with only the attendants necessary for his purpose , but without any friend or companion who would do more than look after the material well-being of the expedition .
Various treatises with similar aims had been given to the world before the publication of Eichthofen 's volume , from the time of Ami Boue 's ' Guide du Geologue Voyageur ' onwards , but none of them so thoroughly deserves to be put into the hands of every man who proposes to undertake the examination of new or little-known regions , and who is willing to learn beforehand what is expected of him by those competent to judge .
Baron von Richthofen , as a familiar and welcome participator in various International Congresses , and an honorary member of many of the learned societies of Europe , was one of the most widely known and most respected men of science of his day .
His tall figure and courtly presence made him conspicuous wherever he came , while his quiet , earnest and kindly manner irresistibly attracted those with whom he came in contact .
His home at Berlin , where he was greatly aided by the full intellectual sympathy of his devoted wife , became a centre to which geographical pilgrims from all lands made their way .
With his students he was not merely the learned professor , but the personal friend who guided and helped them while they were with him , and watched with keen interest their subsequen fc progress when they 1 eft .
The ' Colloquium ' which he established among them afforded ample opportunity for that friendly social intercourse between teacher and taught which is so valuable an aid in the higher education .
This personal influence he cultivated so ardently that perhaps few modern teachers have equalled him in the enthusiastic devotion of his pupils .
On his sixtieth birthday his old students at Bonn , Leipzig , and Berlin offered him as their most welcome gift a ' Festschrift ' of geographical essays , in evidence that , of the seed which he had sown so widely , some had taken good root .
While his original contributions to science will always keep his name fresh as one to whom geology and geography stand greatly indebted , it is probably his educational work in the organising and developing of geography as a mental discipline in university training that has had the most influence in his own lifetime .
But this influence could never have been so far reaching and profound had it not been based on the recognition of his place as one of the great scientific travellers of the nineteenth century .
He leaves a blank in the ranks of science which none of his survivors can wholly fill , and his memory will be warmly cherished by all who knew him as one of the ablest , worthiest , and most lovable of men .
A. G. xli FREDERICK WOLLASTON HUTTON , 1836\#151 ; 1905 .
Captain F. W. Hutton , whose name has been so long and so intimately connected with the Natural History of New Zealand , died at sea on October 27 , 1905 , while on his way back to the Colony after a short stay in England .
He was born in 1836 , at Gate Burton , Lincolnshire , of which village his father was Rector .
At the age of fourteen he was a midshipman on a ship trading to Calcutta , but he soon left the sea , and became a student at King 's College , London .
Before the age of twenty he received a commission in the 23rd Royal Welsh Fusiliers , and soon saw active service in the Crimea , and afterwards in India during the Indian Mutiny , where he wTas present at the Relief of Lucknow and in other engagements .
His bent for science was already showing itself in various ways , and in 1860 , on his return to England , he was elected a Fellow of the Geological Society , and gained considerable practical acquaintance in that science with the officers of the Geological Survey in Hampshire and the Isle of Wight .
Fortunately for New Zealand , Captain Hutton , in search of fresh fields of work , turned his attention to that Colony , and , retiring from the army , arrived there in 1866 .
Soon he became attached to the Geological Survey of New Zealand , and commenced that series of researches into the geology of the Colony which lasted , with some breaches of continuity , throughout his life .
In 1871 he was appointed Assistant Geologist , and removed from Auckland to Wellington ; in 1873 he became Provincial Geologist of Otago and came to Dunedin , and before long , in conjunction with the late Professor Ulrich , he published an important work on the geology of Otago .
But Captain Hutton was not a man of one science only .
During this time he had already been working also on the zoology of New Zealand , and when the position of Provincial Geologist lapsed with the abolition of the provinces in 1876 , he was appointed Professor of Natural Science at the Otago University , and had charge of the Otago Museum , which had been designed and built under his device and direction , and which still contains so much evidence of the work that he did at that time .
About four years afterwards he removed to Christchurch as Professor of Biology at Canterbury College , and soon began to instil into his students some of his own enthusiasm for natural science , as he had already done in Dunedin .
Here , while continuing his researches on geological and zoological subjects , he found it necessary , for the sake of his students , to take up the study of botany , and with his natural clearness of insight and ability to grasp readily the essential details of a fresh science , he soon made himself familiar with his subject , and a little pamphlet which he published on the structure of the common weed " shepherd 's purse ' received favourable notice at the time .
He continued to occupy the chair of Biology at Canterbury College till the xlii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
death of Sir Julius Yon Haast , when he became , in addition , Lecturer on Geology , and had temporary charge of the Canterbury Museum .
Soon after , on the resignation of Mr. Forbes , he was permanently appointed Curator of the Museum .
Thereupon he resigned his professorship of Biology , but continued to lecture on geology till about three years ago , when he found the strain of lecturing in addition to his museum work pressing too heavily upon him .
For nearly forty years he had been constantly engaged with his various official duties , and had never revisited England , but early in the year 1905 he was granted six months ' leave of absence , and he left New Zealand in March , full of anticipation of the pleasure he would have in renewing old acquaintances and of meeting personally the many scientific friends whom he already knew so well by correspondence ; but owing to a breakdown in his health soon after his arrival in England , these pleasurable anticipations were only in a very slight degree realised .
Such , then , is a brief outline of what may be called Captain Hutton 's official life ; but this only covers a small part of his activity : during these busy years he found time to prepare and publish a long list of papers and works embodying the results of original research , which he contributed to the scientific journals of New Zealand , Australia , and Europe .
Many of these , as already stated , deal with geology , but a far larger number are devoted to zoology , and they cover practically every class of animals from mammals to protozoa , and it can safely be said that no other New Zealand zoologist will ever be able to cover so wide a field .
Indeed , Captain Hutton 's work has made this unnecessary , and at the same time impossible .
When he arrived in New Zealand he found its zoology practically untouched ; some of the birds and more conspicuous animals had , indeed , been collected and described by various scientific expeditions that had visited New Zealand ; but even of these little was known , and all the others were unnamed and unknown .
To the task of describing these , Captain Hutton set himself with determination and enthusiasm , and not only did he possess the necessary knowledge and skill required for the commencement of the work , but he had also the rare faculty of self-development with his work , and of acquiring new methods of research and investigation as they were needed .
From his pen there came in rapid succession descriptions and catalogues of fishes , mollusca , Crustacea , worms , echinoderms , sea-anemones , and insects of all kinds .
Many of these appeared in the ' Transactions of the New Zealand Institute , ' to which he has been a constant contributor from the commencement , and many of his catalogues were issued as separate publications .
As the result of- his labours , aided to some extent by that of his students and others , whom he started and encouraged in the same task , the preliminary work of naming and classifying the animals of New Zealand has been to a great extent completed , and it is a great satisfaction to all zoologists that he was able , with the assistance of several co-workers , to publish in the early part of 1904 an 'Index Faunae Novae-Zealandiae'\#151 ; i.e. , a complete list , Frederick Wollaston Hutton .
xliii with references of all animals hitherto recorded from New Zealand .
A survey of the pages of this work will give some idea of the number of the animals that were described by himself , while the numerous congratulatory letters on the completion of this work that were publicly presented to him at a meeting of the Philosophical Institute of Canterbury in May , 1904 , bear eloquent testimony to the value placed upon his work by those best qualified to judge .
More recently , under the title ' Animals of New Zealand , ' he has published a beautifully illustrated account of the air-breathing vertebrates of New Zealand .
But Captain Hutton was not content with merely naming and describing new species : no one knew better than he that this work , valuable though it was , formed only the preliminary statement of the problems presented by the phenomena of animal life , and these problems he never lost sight of .
To the particular problems of the origin of the New Zealand fauna and flora he specially devoted himself , and brought to bear upon it all his wide knowledge as a zoologist and his experience as a geologist .
His contributions to the solution of this complex problem have made his name known throughout the world as a recognised authority on all matters connected with the geographical distribution of animals and plants .
It was from their bearing on this question that he took such a keen interest in the results of the various Antarctic expeditions that have recently returned from their fields of observations , and even after his arrival in England , he contributed an important article to ' Nature ' on the Antarctic continent .
But he attacked even wider questions still .
One of his very first contributions to scientific literature was a review of Darwin 's * Origin of Species ' in the 'Geologist ' in 1861\#151 ; a review which gained from Darwin an appreciative letter , of which Captain Hutton was justifiably proud\#151 ; and throughout his career Captain Hutton returned from time to time to the more philosophical questions underlying the whole of natural science .
Some of his articles on these subjects were issued a few years ago in book form under the title of ' Darwinism and Lamarckism .
' A later work , ' The Lesson of Evolution , ' which contains his presidential address to the Australasian Association at Hobart in 1902 , and kindred essays , attracted much attention not only from naturalists but from thinking men in general .
Captain Hatton naturally took a keen interest in the welfare of the various scientific societies in New Zealand .
As honorary secretary and president of the Otago Institute in years past , he did much to establish it on a firm and permanent basis .
During the whole of his stay in Christchurch he was a most active member of the Philosophical Institute of Canterbury , acting as secretary , treasurer , and on several occasions as president .
He was secretary of the Australasian Association for the meeting in Christchurch in 1891 .
Later on he was president of Section D ( biology ) , and in 1902 he was president of the Association itself , on the occasion of its meeting in Hobart .
On the retirement of Sir James Hector as manager of the New Zealand Institute , about three years ago , Captain Hutton was prominent amongst xliv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
those who promoted a Bill for the reconstitution of the Institute , providing for the better representation of the various district Institutes on the Board of Governors , and for an elected president , and when the new constitution came into force in January , 1903 , he was by common consent elected as first president under the new constitution\#151 ; a position he still held at the time of his death .
As a teacher he was singularly clear and original in his methods of exposition , and possessed the valuable faculty of arousing enthusiasm in his pupils , several of whom have become regular contributors to various departments of natural science .
Though he was not a public man in the ordinary sense , he took his full share of public duties in all matters where he could contribute special knowledge without becoming involved in questions of local politics .
Being thoroughly sincere , open , and straightforward in all his actions , he was a keen and unsparing critic of anything that bordered upon pretence and humbug , but to all genuine students and workers he was a warm friend and a ready helper , and the loss of his valued advice and ripe judgment will be felt by many.* * For this Obituary Notice the Koyal Society is indebted to Professor Charles Chilton , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.L.S. , Canterbury College , Christchurch , New Zealand .
xlv GEORGE BOWDLER BUCKTON , 1818\#151 ; 1905 .
In his address to the Royal Society in November , 1905 , the then President , Sir William Huggins , reported among the year 's losses the death of George Bowdler Buckton , who " to the deep grief of a large circle of friends , passed away at the ripe age of 88 , leaving behind him a noble example of unwearied devotion to the successful prosecution of scientific work , notwithstanding great physical infirmity .
" Most men who attain to scientific eminence find the study of a single branch of science , or of one or two allied branches , sufficient to occupy a lifetime .
It is comparatively seldom that the same man is able ( like Buckton ) to pursue with success two such dissimilar studies as Chemistry and Entomology .
There was also another unusual feature in his scientific career .
Most men who occupy themselves with Entomology and kindred pursuits do so chiefly in their younger days , and more or less abandon the study in later life , whereas Buckton , though always interested in Natural History , devoted his earlier years to Chemistry and Physics , and the latter half of his long life to the preparation of his valuable works on Entomology .
Born in or near London , on May 24 , 1818 , and brought up at Oakfield , Hornsey , Buckton was the eldest son of a large family .
His father , George Buckton , was Proctor of the Prerogative Court of Canterbury , and his mother , Eliza , was the daughter of Richard Merricks , of Chichester , Deputy Lieutenant of the County .
At about the age of five years , Buckton sustained an accident which permanently crippled him , a misfortune which he bore throughout life with courage and silence , but which must have been peculiarly painful to a man of his large build and energetic temperament .
Nevertheless , it is probable that if he had been able to lead a more active life , he would not have had the same opportunities of carrying on his scientific pursuits so steadily and successfully .
As Buckton 's infirmity unfitted him for public school and University life , he received tuition from the Rev. Oliver Lodge , Rector of Barking , and the Rev. Dr. Meuse , formerly Headmaster of the Cholmondeley School .
He was popular with his class-mates , shared their escapades , and was often carried pick-a-back by some stronger comrade on daring excursions .
Necessarily left much to his own resources , he became a good classical scholar and an extensive reader .
He also devoted himself successfully to music and painting , which remained his favourite recreations throughout life .
He showed much ingenuity in the construction of appliances to illustrate his youthful lectures on scientific subjects .
While still scarcely more than a boy , Buckton made the acquaintance of Thomas Bell , who proved his close friend for more than 40 years , and by whose encouragement he became an earnest student of Natural History , beginning to form collections and make observations on bees , butterflies , xlvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
shells , bats , birds , etc. , round London and elsewhere .
Most of the birds he collected were shot and stuffed by his own hand ; he also became a good fisherman .
Astronomy was another of Buckton 's favourite studies , and , being always alive to the interest of collateral issues in science , he started quite early grinding telescopic specula .
Frankland , with whom he afterwards became intimate , vied with him in being the first English physicist to produce specula on glass , which method had been lately inaugurated by the French philosopher Foucault .
Subsequently , Buckton worked specula of 12 inches diameter , and , as an amateur , mounted them equatorially .
On the death of his father , he moved into London , residing at Queen 's Gardens , W. , where he built himself a circular observatory on the leads of his house , and made more than one telescope , using his own brass turnings , etc. About this time he became the pupil , friend and assistant of Professor A. W. von Hofmann ( of whom , it will be remembered , Sir William Perkin and other distinguished men were also pupils ) , at the Royal College of Chemistry .
His first recorded scientific paper was " Observations on the Deportment of Dipla.tosomine with Cyanogen , " published in the 'Journal of the Chemical Society ' ( vol. iv , pp. 26 to 33 ) , and subsequently republished in translation , in several French and German periodicals in 1851 and 1852 .
A succession of other papers followed , among the most important being those relating to his discovery and isolation of the radical , mercuric methyl , etc. ( 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. ix , 1857 to 1859 , pp. 91 , 92 , 309 to 316 ; 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1858 , pp. 163 to 169 ; 1859 , pp. 417 to 435 ) .
The last of the series , worked out with the collaboration of William Odling , was upon aluminium compounds , and was published in 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. xiv , 1865 , pp. 19 to 21 .
A full list will be found in the Royal Society 's Catalogue of Scientific Papers .
Meantime Buckton had been unobtrusively carrying on his Natural History studies , his earliest recorded papers on the subject being " On the Application of Cyanide of Potassium to Killing Insects " ( ' Zoologist , ' 1854 , vol. xiv , pp. 436 to 438 ) and " Notice of several species of Bats captured in England during the present autumn " ( ' Proc. Linn. Soc. , ' vol. ii , 1854 , pp. 259 to 261 ) .
In 1845 , Buckton became a Fellow of the Linnean Society , serving in 1855-6 upon its Council , and coming into contact with Yarrell , Westwood , Saunders , Huxley , Hooker , and other naturalists .
In 1852 he joined the Chemical Society , and in 1857 the Royal Society , when he became a member of its Philosophic Club , the meetings of which he attended with great interest , till extreme old age compelled him to relinquish them .
In 1883 he became a Fellow of the Entomological Society .
He served on the Councils of all these Societies from time to time .
He was also elected a Member of the Entomological Society of France ; the Academy of Natural Sciences at Philadelphia , etc. In 1865 , Buckton married Mary Ann , the only sister of his friend Professor Odling , of Oxford .
He purchased the estate of Weycombe , at xlvii George Boivdler Haslemere , Surrey , where he built himself a stone-gabled house , according to his own designs , taking with him his observatory and transit instruments .
Here he lived a peaceful , happy life for the remainder of his days ; and out of eight children , live daughters and a son survive him ; likewise his widow .
After settling at Haslemere , although Buckton kept his private laboratory and lathe room , and gave private lectures on Chemistry and Physics to his children and friends , he devoted himself chiefly to Natural History , commencing by studying Parthenogenesis in Aphides , which led up to the first of his valuable series of Entomological works , his ' Monograph of British Aphides/ published by the Pay Society in four volumes , from 1876 to 1883 .
The numerous illustrations to this work were made under the camera lucida and lithographed and coloured by his own hand .
Continuing the study of the somewhat neglected sub-order Homoptera , he published his c Monograph of British Cicadie or Tettigidse ' ( 2 vols .
, Macmillan ) in 1890-1891 , in which he was assisted by his children , who collected specimens and coloured many of the plates under his direction .
This was followed by the ' Natural History of Eristalis Tenax ; or , the Drone Ely ' ( 1 vol. , Macmillan , 1895 ) ; and finally by a large and important work on the Membracidae of the World , issued by Lovell Pteeve \amp ; Co. in 4to .
parts from 1901 to 1903 , with many illustrations .
A supplement to this work was published in the ' Transactions of the Linnean Society ' in July , 1905 , only two months before the author 's death .
The original plates of the Monograph of Membracidee have been presented to the Hope Museum , Oxford .
Buckton 's deftness of hand in arranging his hundreds of microscopic slides was remarkable ; often in laying out the delicate nervous organisation of an insect , he would make use of the sting of a wasp , as the finest available instrument .
He was in constant communication with various scientific societies at home and abroad , and carried on a large correspondence with the unfailing energy and courtesy that reminds one of au earlier period , when letter-writing was a fine art ; this was distinctly perceptible even in his business letters .
Buckton instructed his children himself till they were 9 or 10 years of age in a variety of subjects , from Grammar and Languages to Euclid , Drawing and Physiology .
He had an unusual gift of exposition , and was always ready to share his knowledge with others .
He often gave tools or specimens to small boys who showed interest in Natural History .
In spite of his infirmity , the charm of his personality deeply impressed even strangers casually meeting him for the first time ; and a friend writes , " None who ever met him could fail to be struck with his kindly courtesy , his intense vitality , his wide range of knowledge , and his unflagging interest in every topic affecting mankind .
" In his earlier days , Buckton travelled in Italy , France , and elsewhere , saw the Commune , and even climbed the barricades , his great will-power enabling him to surmount obstacles that might have daunted stronger men .
xlviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
The Observatory which Buckton took with him when he removed from London to Haslemere was erected in the grounds at some little distance from the house ; but his visits to it were discontinued after a serious accident that befell him in 1882 , when he overbalanced himself in trying to reach the long focus of a Newtonian .
He lay with a leg fractured in two places for some hours before he was found ; and his recovery , though complete , was slow .
Buckton interested himself sympathetically in all sorts of local matters , acting as Treasurer and Chairman on various local bodies .
In politics he was a Conservative ; in religion a moderate Churchman , with broad sympathies , and he gave liberally to Church and Schools .
Among his large circle of friends he numbered many of eminence , among whom were Tyndall and Tennyson , of whom , as they resided not far from Haslemere , he saw a good deal .
Though sometimes swift and uncompromising in his judgments , and naturally of a quick temper , he was nevertheless gifted with remarkable self-control , especially as regarded his physical infirmity .
Those most intimately associated with him can recall no single instance of moodiness or murmuring ; but when some unexpected hindrance presented itself , he would allude , half-sadly , and half-humorously to his disability ; a reference not easily forgotten by those who heard it .
It has been remarked that " the most striking thing about him was his magnificent calm .
" Buckton kept his remarkable powers of work and energy to the last .
The finely-executed bust by R. Hope-Pinker , exhibited in the Academy of 1904 , plainly indicated how little old age had impaired his clear intellect and vigour .
He was finishing some water-colour sketches of Norway up to within a few weeks of his death .
Buckton succumbed at last rather from the natural exhaustion of old age than from any physical disease .
He sustained a chill , followed by three weeks of illness and suffering ; but he was conscious to the last , and his spirit passed peacefully away on the night of September 25 , 1905 , in the presence of his wife and children .
After cremation , the ashes were buried , according to his wish , in Haslemere Churchyard , in the presence of many relatives , friends , and members of the various Societies to which he had belonged .
At the time the village was celebrating the subdued festivities of its Harvest Home , adding an appropriate calm and beauty to a somewhat unusual ceremony .
The present Lord Tennyson has written , concerning Mr. Buckton , " Truly a devoted , spiritual , knightly nature , with a faith as clear as the height of the pure blue heaven .
His views and my father 's upon Life , Death and Immortality were very much alike .
My father used to say , ' My most passionate and most earnest desire is to have a fuller and clearer knowledge of God .
' " There is scarcely a preface to any of his larger works in which Buckton does not incidentally reveal his deep-lying interest and trust in things unseen , " W* P- Kirby .
xlix CHAELES BAEOJST CLAEKE , 1832\#151 ; 1906 .
Charles Baron Clarke was born at Andover , Hampshire , on June 17,1832 .
He was the eldest son of Turner Poulter Clarke , J.P. , and Elizabeth Parker .
His father was the son of Turner Poulter Clarke and Elizabeth Baron ; his mother was the daughter of James Parker and Elizabeth Ward .
One of his grand-uncles , Charles Baron , an enthusiastic gardener , was the founder of the Agricultural Society of Saffron Walden .
Baron 's sister , Clarke 's paternal grandmother , shared her brother 's love of plants ; three of her sons owed largely to her influence a taste for scientific enquiry .
These were Clarke 's uncles , Joseph , a careful antiquarian , who founded the Saffron Walden Museum ; Joshua , an able field botanist and a recognised authority on the flora of Essex ; and Benjamin , a systematic botanist of decided originality , spoken of by Bentham as " one of our most careful observers .
" Clarke shared the tastes of two of his uncles ; he took , in addition , a deep interest in social science .
The latter taste he seems to have inherited from his maternal grandfather ; his mathematical powers appear to have been derived from his father and his paternal grandfather .
As a boy , Clarke was sent to the preparatory school of Mr. Tomlinson , at Salisbury .
From this he went to King 's College School , London , where he passed through the higher forms and then attended classes in the College before proceeding to Cambridge .
He entered at Trinity in 1852 ; graduated B.A. and was bracketed Third Wrangler in 1856 ; was elected a Fellow of Queen 's in 1857 ; was called to the Bar at Lincoln 's Inn in 1858 , and appointed Mathematical Lecturer of his College in the same year ; and took the degree of M.A. in 1859 .
He continued a resident Fellow of Queen 's till December , 1865 , when he was appointed to the Bengal Education Department .
On reaching India in 1866 , Clarke was at first attached to the Presidency College , Calcutta , but was soon appointed Inspector of Schools in the Eastern Division of Bengal , with his headquarters at Dacca .
Early in 1869 , Dr. T. Anderson , Superintendent of the Eoyal Botanical Garden at Calcutta and of Cinchona Cultivation in Bengal , was invalided to Europe ; on Anderson 's recommendation Clarke was appointed to officiate in both posts .
Towards the end of 1870 , Anderson died in Scotland , but Clarke was not relieved of his duties in the Botanical Department till July , 1871 , when , on the arrival of Dr. ( now Sir ) G. King , who had been appointed Anderson 's successor , he was able to revert to his substantive appointment at Dacca .
In 1874 , Clarke was transferred to the Presidency Division of Bengal , with his headquarters at Calcutta , and in 1875 he was again transferred , as Inspector of Schools , to the Northern Division , with his headquarters at Darjeeling .
In 1877 Clarke came to England on two years ' furlough ; when this VOL. LXX1X.\#151 ; B. e 1 Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
expired he did not return to India , but was placed on special duty at Kew , to assist Sir J. D. Hooker in preparing the 'Flora of British India .
' This deputation continued till 1883 , when Clarke reverted to duty in Bengal as Inspector of Schools in the Presidency Division , and temporarily as a Professor in the Calcutta Presidency College .
In December , 1884 , Clarke was appointed to officiate as Director of Public Instruction in Bengal , and in March , 1885 , his services were placed at the disposal of the Government of Assam , where he served as Inspector of Schools , with his headquarters at Shillong , till his retirement , at the age of 55 , in June , 1887 .
On his return to England , Clarke settled at Kew , to be near the Herbarium at the Boyal Gardens , where he worked without a break as a volunteer till within a few days of his death , which took place , after a short illness , on August 25 , 1906 .
The influence of Mr. Tomlinson on Clarke 's intellectual development seems to have been considerable , and the foundations of the interest which he took in geographical and historical studies appear to have been laid at his preparatory school .
At King 's College School he was much impressed by the teaching of Mr. Hann , a man of marked individuality , who was mathematical master .
As an undergraduate at Cambridge , Clarke , from his King 's College connection , was one of a circle of close friends which included John ( afterwards Sir J. ) Bigby , a Member of his College and subsequently Second Wrangler in Clarke 's year , and Henry Fawcett , also of the same year but a Member of Peterhouse .
Clarke , who , both as an undergraduate and as a resident Fellow , was Fawcett 's especial intimate , had not known the latter , or only knew him by sight , in his school days .
Though a native of Salisbury , Fawcett did not attend the same preparatory school ; Fawcett was , besides , a year Clarke 's junior , and though they were contemporaries at King 's College School , they were not class fellows .
But from Easter , 1851 , till they went to Cambridge , both attended the same mathematical lectures at King 's College , and during this period began their lifelong friendship .
The migration of Fawcett to Trinity Hall brought him and , as a consequence , his friend Clarke , into contact with Leslie Stephen , who had also been at King 's College .
As a result , Stephen was drawn into their circle and became a lifelong friend of both .
Characteristic of the members of this brilliant coterie was an interest in discussions bearing on political economy and a foible for unconventionality in matters of dress .
In the case of Clarke the interest continued to the last ; the foible became second nature .
That a group of thoughtful undergraduates should take pleasure in the discussion of intricate social problems is , fortunately , not unusual ; nor is it surprising that the feelings of youth should often induce the adoption of advanced views .
The outlook , however , not infrequently alters when the realities of life are faced and the discussion of such problems are too frequently left to the professional philanthropist and the party politician , whose interpretation of economic truths is occasionally unconsciously affected by a natural Charles Baron Clarke .
li enthusiasm or subconsciously influenced by a thirst for place .
Clarke was neither , and his views on political economy were therefore particularly refreshing .
He treated the subject as one of the exact sciences , and if the sanity of his outlook seemed at times almost cynical , those who knew him knew also that this was to be attributed to the subject and not to the man .
For the factors in a social problem never presented themselves to his mind as mere abstractions , and any approach to cynicism was foreign to his kindly nature .
While in residence at Queen 's , the penchant for what was then his favourite study incidentally led to his taking an active part in the Cambridge Election of 1863 which Fawcett unsuccessfully fought .
He was still more active in his friend 's behalf a year later , when Fawcett first stood for Brighton .
Between these two contests occurred the more memorable one , so vividly described by Leslie Stephen , into which Clarke and Stephen flung themselves with almost upacademic ardour , that resulted in Fawcett 's appointment to the Chair of Political Economy at Cambridge .
Clarke 's intervention in these struggles was due to his personal affection for Fawcett , whose views on social problems were substantially his own .
The relative position of the two was , however , far from being that of disciple and teacher .
Though not a good public speaker , as Fawcett was , Clarke 's conversation was easy and , from bis store of facts , he was remarkably ready in discussion .
We learn from Leslie Stephen that Fawcett made frequent use of Clarke 's often pithy expressions on economic subjects .
Where his interests were shared , whether his views were accepted or not , political economy was a frequent topic in Clarke 's letters and talk .
Besides various pamphlets and letters on special problems , some of these written at the request of Indian officials with reference to legislative measures that were being contemplated or enforced , in which his views are stated with lucidity and directness , Clarke has recorded his attitude towards the subject as a whole in his ' Speculations from Political Economy , ' published in 1886 .
The circle at Cambridge to which Clarke belonged was mainly a mathematical one , but most of its members seem to have held the view that the value of a mathematical training lay chiefly in its excellence as a branch of intellectual gymnastics .
It is not clear that this was precisely Clarke 's view ; the fact that he published no purely mathematical paper suggests that he may have shared it .
He was , though not technically a musician , fond of good music , and while in India was interested in native , particularly Bengali , music .
The interest in this case was , however , mathematical rather than aesthetic , and that he was attracted to this side of the art as a whole may be deduced from his note on the " Equal Temperament of the Scale " which appeared in ' Nature ' in 1883 .
The members of this Cambridge circle had a house in the Lake Country where they could stay during vacations .
Here Clarke spent most , if not all , of the Easters of his time at Queen 's ; Leslie Stephen has recorded how , during Clarke 's last visit , Easter 1865 , he and Clarke made an ascent of the lii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Pillar Rock in Wastdale .
Clarke , always a traveller , during long vacations went further afield .
In the earlier years he visited Scotland , once going as far as Sky ; in 1862 he visited Madeira ; several visits , usually as one of a climbing party , were paid to the Alps , the last of these being made in 1865 .
Mountain adventure was not , however , the only object of his journeys ; his private herbarium shows that during all of them he was an assiduous botanical collector .
While engaged in his favourite occupation in Madeira , his inexplicable presence on a lonely hillside and the aberrant nature of his attire led to his being arrested as an escaped prisoner .
Clarke 's most sustained botanical work while he was a resident Fellow of Queen 's was done , however , in England and chiefly in his own country , Northern Hampshire .
The results were embodied in a list of the flowering plants of Andover , his birthplace ; this list , completed before he left for India , was printed at Calcutta in 1866 , shortly after his arrival there .
The modest title and remote origin of this first contribution to what was now to be his favourite science failed to conceal the independence with which the subject had been treated , and the trenchant criticism which it evoked led to a reply which showed that in Clarke the reviewer had to deal with no mean antagonist .
The work of an Indian Inspector of Schools involves much touring during a considerable part of the year , and affords opportunities for a study of the flora of the country traversed hardly to be surpassed .
Of these opportunities Clarke took full advantage during his service in Bengal and Assam , supplementing them as occasion offered by vacation visits to districts and provinces other than those within which his duties lay .
During the first two years and a half of his Eastern service Clarke travelled extensively in East Bengal , where the physical conditions are such that the only practical mode of conveyance is by boat .
The considerable collections he had amassed , and the bulk of his other belongings , were lost , early in 1868 , by the wreck of the country boat which for the time being he had practically made his home ; his own safety was due to his being a powerful swimmer .
Undiscouraged , he began afresh , and besides collecting largely in his own division , was able to visit the Khasia Hills , Tipperah and Chittagong .
He occasionally complained that , owing to the pressure of official and administrative duties at the Botanical Garden , he was able to do " less real botanical work during a year of his superintendentship than he could accomplish in a month of his travelling appointment .
" Still his temporary connection with the Cinchona Department gave him an opportunity of studying the flora of temperate Sikkim , enabled him to pay his first visit to the high Himalayan passes , and led incidentally to his making a journey in Madras and the Nilgiris .
His transfer to Calcutta in 1874 permitted him to partially explore the Sundribun forests of the Gangetic Delta , to visit Chutia Nagpur and to make a holiday tour in the Punjab Himalaya .
When Darjeeling became his headquarters he was enabled to make three more tours in Alpine Sikkim , to investigate temperate British Bhutan , to study Charles Baron Clarke .
liii the flora of the North Bengal plain , and to make a holiday journey which lasted three months and a half , his most sustained purely botanical excursion , in Kashmir and on the Karakoram Bange .
The collections accumulated during these various journeys amount to 25,000 numbers , representing about 5000 species .
The whole he made over to Kew when he reached England in 1877 .
When Clarke returned to India in 1883 he made a second and more extended tour in Chutia Nagpur , and in the protected native States to the south-west , paid botanical visits to various portions of Central Bengal and explored subtropical Sikkim and the submontane forests of the Terai and the Duars .
His transfer to Assam in 1885 enabled him to renew and extend his acquaintance with the flora of the Khasia Hills , to explore the valleys of the Brahmaputra from Dhubri to Sadiya , and of the Surma from Silhet to Silchar , as well as to visit the Naga Hills and Manipur .
The collections amassed during Clarke 's second period of service in India amount to some 10,000 numbers ; a complete set of the specimens was presented to Kew after his retirement in 1887 .
In the course of his Indian career Clarke was able to acquire , at first hand , a knowledge of the Indian flora comparable in extent with that of Hamilton , Wallich and Hooker , and only surpassed by that of Griffith .
Clarke was an admirable field botanist ; his commissariat and equipment when travelling were Spartan in their simplicity ; his physique was such that he seemed to regard the ascent of a Himalayan slope or the passage of a tropical rice-swamp much as he regarded an English geological excursion .
His indifference to climate was such that his clothing did not vary from what he wore in England , whether he was on a Himalayan pass in early spring or in the Gangetic plain in the hot season .
His specimens were always carefully selected and prepared .
The precise and often full field notes , frequently accompanied by serviceable analyses , were always made in the field ; every gathering received a separate serial number , so that misquotation of a plant collected by Clarke is impossible ; energetic and tireless , he always dealt with the specimens of a particular date before he retired to rest , no matter how long or trying the day 's march might have been .
A feature of Clarke 's work as a collector was the especial attention given by him at particular times to individual natural families .
His notes show that from 1866\#151 ; 69 his interest was great in Commelynacece , from 1869\#151 ; 71 in Cyrtandracece , from 1871\#151 ; 73 in Compositee , in 1874 in Gentianacece , from 1874 onwards in Glumacece generally , but after 1876 more particularly in the family as to which in later years lie was to become the recognised authority .
Another characteristic of Clarke 's work was the comparative indifference with which he regarded trees : as a collector of herbaceous species he has , perhaps , never been surpassed .
These two peculiarities were more marked during the first phase of his Indian career than they were during the second , which began after he had spent six years continuously at work at the Herbarium at Kew .
Clarke 's contributions to botanical literature during his first ten years of liv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
service in India include monographs of the and of Bengal , published at Calcutta in 1874 , and of the Indian Composite , also published there in 1876 ; with six minor papers in the Linnean Society 's 'Journal ' between 1870 and 1876 .
In 1874 he further earned the gratitude of Indian botanists by reprinting , with a preface at his own cost , Roxburgh 's 'Flora Indica , ' which had become scarce and hardly procurable .
While on furlough during 1877\#151 ; 79 , and on deputation at Kew during 1879\#151 ; 83 , his additions to botanical literature were more extensive .
They include accounts of over fifty of the natural families described in the second , third and fourth volumes of Sir J. D. Hooker 's ' Flora of British India ' ; three minor papers in the ' Journal of Botany ' ; ten in the Linnean Society 's ' Journal ' ; and one , an important review of the ferns of Northern India , in that Society 's 'Transactions .
' During this period he also wrote two of the volumes , that on Commelinacew , issued in 1881 , and that on the issued in 1883 , of De Candolle 's ' Monographic Phanerogamarum .
' The family Cyperacew was , as we have seen , the last of a series of families which had proved especially attractive to Clarke .
This particular interest did not become dominant till 1876 , near the close of his first period of Indian service ; it continued so , however , during the rest of his career .
While helping forward at Kew , between 1877\#151 ; 83 , the preparation of the ' Flora of British India , ' he had little time to study his favourite family till shortly before he left England ; his first papers on the subject are two of the minor contributions in the Linnean Society 's ' J ournal , ' already alluded to , which appeared in 1883 .
But during his two last months in England advantage was taken of his special knowledge in having the Indian species of Cyperus rearranged .
When Clarke was leaving for India , Sir J. D. Hooker asked him to publish the results of his work , so as to aid later on in dealing with the genus in the ' Flora .
' On reaching India , Clarke similarly rearranged the rich Indian material of the genus in the Calcutta Herbarium ; he thereupon published , in the Linnean 'Journal ' for 1884 , an important review of the Indian species of Cyperus in both herbaria .
Clarke 's only botanical contributions during his second residence in India were notes on three of his botanical journeys , published in the Linnean ' Journal .
' During this period , however , he studied and rearranged the Calcutta material of the order Cy , and when he reached Kew in 1887 , after having critically examined and distributed the contents of his second Indian Herbarium , he devoted the greater part of his time to a detailed study of the Cyperacece of the globe , his object being to complete a general monograph of this difficult family .
As his work progressed he gradually becamefthe recognised authority on the subject , to whom botanists of every nationality sent their collections from all parts of the world for identification .
The results of his work in this direction are to be found in numerous papers published in many periodicals at home and abroad .
The Cyperacece in most of the principal collections in Europe were also submitted to him for critical examination and determination .
In addition Charles Baron Clarke .
lv he wrote , at the request of Sir J. D. Hooker , the account of the for the ' Flora of British India , ' published in 1893\#151 ; 94 , and at the request of Sir W. T. Thiselton-Dyer the accounts of the same family for the ' Flora Capensis , ' published in 1897\#151 ; 98 ; for the ' Flora of Tropical Africa , ' published in 1901\#151 ; 02 ; and for the ' Index Flora Sinensis , ' issued in 1903\#151 ; 04 .
His exhaustive acquaintance with the family was turned to further account in defining , in a paper which appeared in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' in 1893 , the relationship that natural biologic regions , so far at least as botany is concerned , bear to the tabulation areas which are most useful in dealing with the distribution in space of living organisms .
He utilised his familiarity with Cyperacece a second time in 1898 in defining the limits of the sub-subareas that comprise the tabulation area of British India .
But his monograph of the family as a whole , though completed at the time of his death , remains still unpublished .
Clarke did not , however , confine himself exclusively to his favourite family during the period from 1887 onwards .
Besides publishing the results of his Manipur journey , in the Linnean ' Journal , ' he prepared for Sir W. T. Thiselton-Dyer accounts of three natural families for the ' Flora Capensis , ' and of five for the ' Flora of Tropical Africa ' ; of two for Sir G. King 's ' Flora of the Malayan Peninsula ' ; and of seven or eight for Schmidt 's ' Flora of Koh Chang .
' One of the last pieces of work he did was to finish Lowe 's ' Flora of Madeira .
' This is still unpublished ; the text has been completed , but a memoir of Lowe on which Clarke was engaged when overtaken by his last illness remains unfinished .
Clarke possessed a considerable general knowledge of Natural History , but was not minutely acquainted with any special branch , and he rarely discussed zoological subjects .
His acquaintance with Geology was more extensive , and though he seldom spoke at geological meetings , he frequently attended the excursions of the Geologists ' Association , not only the shorter day or halfday meetings , but the longer excursions made by the members at Easter and Whitsuntide , and in August , and was always ready to enter into the discussion of such geological questions as arose during the excursions .
He was hardly an active fossil collector , and his interest inclined rather to those wide problems in Geology where the science approaches the domain of Physiography .
He was frequently able to intervene in discussions on the origin of river-systems , the formation of valleys , and similar topics , and to describe , from his Indian experience , cases very much in point .
The extent and accuracy of his knowledge of Geography are incidentally shown in those papers which deal with the distribution of plants and are more directly seen in the various geographical text-books written by him for Macmillan between 1878 and 1894 .
Equally extensive was his knowledge of History generally and of English History in particular , though , if a conclusion might be drawn from his conversation , his interest was greatest and his knowledge most detailed with regard to the periods of the Tudors and the Stuarts .
Unfortunately , none of the results of his historical studies Ivi Obituary Notices of Felloivs deceased .
have been published ; for some time before his death he was engaged in writing a History of England and had completed the manuscript to the reign of James I. But the subject which , after Political Economy and Botany , most interested him was , perhaps , Ethnology .
His knowledge of this science was extensive and his views were independent .
He , however , published only one ethnological paper , on the Stone Monuments of the Khasi Hills , in the ' Journal of the Anthropological Institute ' in 1874 .
In Clarke were united all the qualities that gain esteem and hold affection .
Open and sincere , he was neither prone to praise nor ready to blame .
The peculiar charm of his manner seemed only to increase with years and longer intercourse .
Mental powers which excite admiration were in him combined with singular modesty .
Unselfish to a degree and unfailingly kind , he was always ready to place his time and knowledge at the service of others .
Hospitable to a fault , the warmth of his welcome was only equalled by the difficulty with which he could be persuaded to accept the hospitality of others .
Clarke became a Fellow of the Linnean Society in 1867 and of the Geological Society in 1868 .
He joined the Council of the Linnean Society for the first time in 1880 and so served during sixteen years ; he was a Vice-President seven times and was its President during two years , 1894-96 .
In 1882 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society and served on its Council during 1888\#151 ; 90 .
In 1897 he joined the Geologists ' Association ; in 1903 , in conjunction with Professor Judd , he acted as Director of one of its excursions .
D. P. lvii LIONEL SMITH BEALE , 1828\#151 ; 1906 .
Lionel Beale was born in the year 1828 , in the parish of St. Paul 's , Covent Garden .
His father was a surgeon , and was one of the earliest Officers of Health in London .
While a medical student at King 's College , Lionel Beale showed talent as well as industry , particularly in the study of chemistry and anatomy ; and before he had taken his degree he was invited by Professor Acland to take the part of anatomical assistant in the Natural Science School at Oxford .
He remained there for two years , when he returned to King 's College , and was succeeded by Victor Carus , of Leipzig .
In 1852 Beale established a laboratory where he taught " the use of the microscope , " and gave courses of instruction in physiological chemistry , and minute anatomy , normal and morbid .
In 1853 he was appointed Professor of Physiology in King 's College , Huxley being one of the candidates .
During these early years of his scientific life , Beale received guidance and help from Dr. Todd , Mr. Bowman , and Mr. Sambrooke .
Between 1851 and 1858 he seems to have published nearly one hundred papers , most of them illustrated by his own skilful hand .
In 1859 he married Frances , only daughter of the Bev .
Peyton Blakiston , M.D. , F.R.S. , and took the lease of 61 , Grosvenor Street , which he retained until 1904 .
In a small greenhouse , and on a flat roof at the back of this house , he , for many years , grew orchids , ferns , and bulbs with skill and success .
In the year 1882 he found it necessary to live in the country on account of his wife 's health , and took a small cottage in a pine wood at Weybridge , travelling to and from London daily .
His garden became well known amongst those interested in this pursuit , for he grew successfully palms , Japanese plants , and bulbs .
One of his friends there was the late Mr. G. F. Wilson , whose wild garden at Wisley has now come into possession of the Royal Horticultural Society .
In 1892 his wife died at Weybridge , and this loss and the constant fatigue of railway-travelling began to affect his health .
In 1896 he had an attack of apoplexy , which laid him up for several weeks-\#151 ; his first serious illness .
In the year 1904 he returned to London to live with his son and daughter-in-law in Bentinck Street , where .his general health markedly improved , although senile changes became more evident .
In March , 1906 , he had another attack of cerebral haemorrhage .
He became unconscious on the next day , and passed peacefully away on the 28th .
He was then 78 years old .
He was buried in Weybridge Cemetery , as was his wish , and in the presence of his near relations and a few of his oldest friends .
One of his sisters , Miss Sophia Beale , survives him , well known for her sketches at home and abroad ; and he leaves one son , Mr. Peyton Beale , F.R.C.S. lviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Dr. Beale was a self-contained man , at least in his later years , of somewhat less than the middle height , with good features and a pleasant smile .
He was remarkable for scarcely showing signs of his age until his last illness , and always gave the impression of a busy and happy man , enjoying his scientific work and his garden with almost equal constancy .
His old friend , Mr. H. T. Wells , R.A. , painted an admirable portrait which will faithfully transmit his features to a distant day .
Dr. Beale 's reputation was early established as a histologist , an original observer , and a skilful investigator , while his beautiful drawings added greatly to the value of his anatomical papers and of both his completed volumes on the same subject .
He was admitted to the Royal Society in 1857 , * and gave the Croonian Lectures in 1865 on the termination and destruction of the ultimate nerve-fibres .
In 1871 the College of Physicians awarded him the Baly medal , a distinction shared by him with Sharpey , Claude Bernard , Carl Ludwig , Brown-Sequard , Heidenhain , Burdon-Sanderson , Michael Foster , Maurice Schiff , Haskell , Schafer , Pavy , Langley , and Pavloff .
The College also appointed him Lumleian Lecturer in 1875 , when he chose for his subject " Life and Vital Action in Health and Disease .
" As a lecturer , he was clear , accurate , and instructive ; as an examiner , patient , and sound in judgment .
Strongly as he held his own views , he never judged a candidate by his opinions , but by an impartial estimate of his knowledge and ability .
As a physician , he was courteous , shrewd , and practical ; as a colleague , honourable , and friendly .
Apart from his distinction as a practising physician , a demonstrator , and lecturer , Beale deserves lasting reputation as a histologist .
His first investigations were on points of animal chemistry : the absence of chlorides in pneumonia , ' Medico-Chirurgical Trans. ' ( 1852 ) , and the methods of identifying glycose in the urine ( 1853 ) .
Then came observations on the minute anatomy of the liver ( 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1856 ) .
His methods of soaking tissues in dilute acid solutions led to valuable results in tracing the course of ultimate nerve-fibres , and his staining with carmine was a fruitful method of investigation .
When he began his investigations , the admirable work of Bowman on the histology of renal structures and of muscular fibres was the most striking advance in this country , and Beale 's close relations with Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman were of great importance .
He also had the merit of distinguishing between the structure Protoplasm or , as he called it , Bioplasm , * Copy of extract from Certificate of Dr. Lionel Smith Beale , February 4 , 1856 : \#151 ; The author of ( 1 ) a paper on the " Minute Structure of the Liver , " ordered for publication in the ' Phil. Trans. ' for the present year ; ( 2 ) a paper on the " Absence of the Chlorides in the Urine in cases of Pneumonia , " published in the 'Medico-Chirurgical Transactions ' ; ( 3 ) a work on the 'Microscope , and its Application to Clinical Medicine , ' 1854 .
Distinguished for his acquaintance with the sciences of Physiology and Pathological Chemistry .
Lionel Smith Beale .
lix which forms the nucleus and body of a cell , from the formed material or intercellular structure without power of movement or growth or reproduction .
The one he called " germinal matter , " the other , " formed material .
" The title of a very early paper of his was " An Attempt to show that every Living Structure consists of Matter which is the seat of Vital Actions , and Matter in which Physical and Chemical Changes alone take place .
" The discovery and description by Schleiden and Schwann of the structure and essentially identical properties of vegetable and animal cells led directly on to the observations of Goodsir and Kedfern in this country , and to the cellular pathology of Virchow .
Beale 's researches were in the same direction , and established the distinction between cellular and intercellular or connective tissues .
It was , perhaps , unfortunate that the difference of view held by Beale from that maintained by Huxley and many others in this country and abroad was formulated as the question between " vitalism " and " materialism .
" The truth does not always lie between two extremes .
If we invoke the " vital principle " to explain every difficulty , we so far put a bar to the advancement of science .
But when we have traced all vital functions to the primordial living ovum , and " Nature 's self untwisted lies into its first consistencies , " the untwisted knot is as hard to be " explained " as ever .
As Du Bois-Iieymond said , Ignoramus et Ignorabimus .
In estimating Dr. Beale 's work , we must remember the great importance of a new method .
The differential staining of tissues was the method he introduced , and ultimately his views on the nucleus and the cell were based on the reaction of animal and vegetable nuclei and protoplasm to carmine and other discriminating agents .
He left no school behind him , but the influence he had on his contemporaries was important .
His two works on histology , " The Microscope in Clinical Medicine , " published in 1854 , and " How to Work with the Microscope , " published in 1857 , covered to a large extent the same ground .
The former is a careful description not of the instrument itself , but of needles , scalpels , scissors , methods of staining and mounting sections , chemical reagents , and of drawing , measuring , injecting , and staining .
The second part is not a laboratory handbook , but a histological account of tissues and fluids of the body , both normal and morbid , including the histology of tumours and of the vegetable and animal parasites then known .
It is well illustrated by drawings of the author 's selection and execution .
Simultaneously with the successive editions of ' The Microscope in Medicine ' appeared not less numerous issues of 'How to Work with the Microscope .
' It was dedicated to the writer 's old friend , Mr. Sambrooke .
The .first part is devoted to a description of the instrument and its accessories , and is followed by a systematic account of the structures\#151 ; animal , vegetable , and mineral\#151 ; revealed by the compound microscope .
As in the earlier volume , not only are the construction of the microscope and its accessories fully illustrated lx Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
by the author 's drawings , but numerous woodcuts are also collected at the end of the volume figuring the structure of human tissues.* A third volume , of very different character , was published many years later , and reached a second edition in 1882 .
It is a reprint of lectures on medicine at King 's College , and is specially occupied with " Slight Ailments , " with no reference to histology or carmine .
It is of purely practical value , and by its many shrewd observations shows a power of observation at the bedside that no one would have expected who was only acquainted with his histological works .
In his later life Dr. Beale wrote chiefly in defence of vitality as a cause of living phenomena .
He held strong convictions on its application to metaphysics and theology , and on these subjects was much influenced by the late Dr. Thring , of Uppingham , and Dr. Wace , the present Dean of Canterbury .
Professor Osier writes as follows of Beale 's reputation in the United States and Canada ( ' Lancet , ' April 7 , 1906 ) :\#151 ; " The influence of Dr. Beale as a scientific investigator and a clinical physician was much more widespread than perhaps was recognised in London or Great Britain at large .
In part , at least , the unfortunate terminology was responsible for the unpopularity of his views in some quarters .
Both in Canada and the United States there are scores of men of my day who , like myself , knew Dr. Beale only by his writings , who will hear of the death of their old teacher with sincere regret , and who will recall with gratitude labour which often helped to lighten their own .
" Titles of Some of the most Important Scientific Papers of Dr. Beale .
His first book was on " The Microscope and its Application in Practical Medicine : a Course of Lectures , 1854 .
" 1853 .
" On the Absence of Chlorides from the Urine in Cases of Pneumonia .
" ' Med. Chir .
Trans. ' 1854 .
" The Microscope in Clinical Medicine .
" 1856 .
" On the Anatomy of the Biliary Ducts .
" ' Phil. Trans. , ' published separately , with sixty photographs of the author 's drawings .
1857 .
" How to Work with the Microscope .
" The two books were slightly varied in title in successive editions and overlapped .
The fourth and last edition of " The Microscope in Medicine " was published in 1878 .
The fifth and last edition of " How to Work with the Microscope " was published in 1880 .
The Croonian Lecture delivered before the Eoyal Society of Physicians , " On Life and Vital Action in Health and Disease , show that every structure consists of matter which is the seat of * Both books were modified in title in successive editions .
Lionel Smith Beale .
lxi vital actions and matter in which physical and chemical changes alone take place .
1862-3 .
" Nerve-endings in Voluntary Muscles .
" ' Proc. Eoy .
Soc. , ' 1862-3 .
" Minute Anatomy of Sarcolemma and Striped Muscle , " 1864 .
' Quart .
J. Micr .
Sc. ' 1863 .
Paper on " The Branching of Nerves in the Frog 's Bladder .
" ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1863 .
1864 .
" Termination of Nerve-Fibres .
" Ibid. 1864 .
" Minute Anatomy of Sarcolemma and Striped Muscle .
" ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. ' 1865 .
He delivered the Croonian Lecture before this Society on " The Ultimate Nerve-Fibres Distributed to Muscles and some other Tissues .
" . .
1865 .
" The Minute Structure of Dentin'e .
" ' Quart .
J. Micr .
Sc. ' 1869 .
" Minute Structure of Papillae of Frog 's Tongue .
" ' Quart .
J. Micr .
Sc. ' , 1870 .
" Bioplasm .
" Ibid. 1871-2 .
" Nerves of Capillary Vessels .
" 1880 .
Presidential Address to the Royal Microscopical Society .
Dr. Gustavus Mann has favoured the writer with the following appreciation of Dr. Beale 's histological work :\#151 ; " Looking back from our present knowledge , Beale 's greatest achievement is to have recognised that a distinction must be drawn between the ' germinal ' and the ' formed ' matter of tissues .
This view , first published in 1861 , in " The Structure of the Simple Tissues , " was adversely criticised by Max Schultze in " Das Protoplasma , " because ' it lay outside the cell theory .
' Howr little justified this dictum was has since been established , for Beale 's germinal matter includes what we now call the nucleus and also cytoplasm in an active state of metabolism .
Beale was led to his conception by the different behaviour of tissues towards his aminoniacal carmine solution .
He wrote ' all elements of fresh tissue which stain readily with carmine , alone possess the power of growth and of producing matter like itself out of material differing from it entirely in properties and powers .
I therefore called it germinal or living matter to distinguish it from the formed material .
The latter may possess remarkable properties and may undergo various physical and chemical changes under the influence of heat , moisture , oxygen , etc. It may permit some fluids to permeate it , and may interfere with the passage of others .
It may contribute to the stability of the organism , and perform a variety of important functions , but it cannot take the place of the germinal or living matter , nor in many cases does it exhibit its characteristic properties after the death of the germinal matter belonging to it .
' As examples of * formed ' material , he mentions the white fibrous tissue of tendon , the matrix of cartilage , and the body of red blood corpuscles .
These far-reaching conclusions were not mere speculation , but were the legitimate outcome of lxii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
a very careful study of the changes which the body , and particularly the connective tissues , undergoes during its development from an embryonic to the adult state ; of the changes met with in fully-grown individuals wherever there is a replacement of old tissues by new , as in the skin ; and , finally , of the alterations produced in normal tissues as the result of infection , both local and general .
In his " Disease Germs , " many experiments are quoted in which the marked proliferation account of the white blood corpuscles is carefully depicted , and although we now know definitely that white blood corpuscles are not the agents producing infectious diseases , the idea underlying Beale 's theory is correct , for in the light of Ehrlich 's recent researches there is no doubt that a cancer cell , i.e. , Beale 's germinal matter , may have its virulence greatly increased under new conditions of environment .
" Beale did not fall into the common error of considering histology from a purely anatomical point of view .
He saw that in physiological research , physics , anatomy , and chemistry must go hand in hand .
By the first , the physical phenomena may be elucidated .
By the second , the minute mechanism concerned in these phenomena is ascertained .
By the third , the nature of the chemical analyses and syntheses taking place in the living organisms are to be determined .
How much Beale valued the chemical aspect of minute anatomy is shown by the care he devoted in his text-book to micro-chemical methods , and by the labour he expended on urinary deposits , the numerous figures being drawn with the greatest possible care , and , above all , drawn to scale .
He further recognised the acid reaction of the ' germinal ' matter and the basic properties of ' formed ' matter .
" To him also belongs the credit of having for the first time practised the method of fixing tissues by injection , for experience had taught him how rapid are the alterations ensuing after death if due precautions be not taken to prevent post-mortem changes .
Among Beale 's discoveries the distribution of the peripheral nerves and the minute structure of the cells of both the central and peripheral systems are especially worthy of mention .
Working with the simplest methods , but gifted with the greatest patience and a natural aptitude for microscopical research , he discovered that the sympathetic ganglion cells of the frog were connected with two distinct processes , one of which , the straight one , was continuous with the central part of the cell , while the other or others were arranged spirally round the straight fibre and were joined to the circumference of the ganglion cell .
We now know that Beale 's spiral fibre is in reality the termination of a nerve-fibre springing from another cell and carrying stimuli to the ganglion cell .
His methods of examining tissues in dilute acetic acid allowed him to see delicate nerve-fibres scarcely less numerous than those revealed by Ehrlich 's intra-vitam staining with methylene blue .
It is only natural that Beale , having shown by his simple method that the distribution of nerve-fibres in striped muscle is so abundant , should have treated Cohnheim 's gold method for nerve-endings and the results which Kuhne obtained by this method and Max Schultze 's tetroxide method , sceptically .
His conception of the distribution of the Lionel Smith Beale .
lxiii nervous system was that there are no free nerve terminations ; that ' in all cases the terminal distribution of nerves is a plexus , network , or loop , and hence that in connection with every terminal nervous apparatus there must be at least two fibres , and that in all cases there exist complete circuits , into the formation of which central nerve-cells , peripheral nerve-cells , and nerve-fibres enter/ This view of Beale has been revived to a great extent by Apathy , and Pfliiger has recently expressed his doubts as to the correctness of Waldeyer 's neuron-theory ; but if we may place reliance on Ehrlich 's intra-vitam staining with methylene blue , and on the various modifications of Golzi 's method , there cannot be any doubt that nerve-fibres have definite terminations , and that Beale 's conception of ' circuits ' is not tenable .
But though there be no direct continuity between efferent and afferent nerves of the cord , there is an indirect continuity by way of the tissues which are supplied with 4 motor ' and ' sensory ' nerves .
An equilibrium can only be established by both motor and sensory reflexes .
" Beale was partly led to his view by the important discovery that the nerve cells in the central nervous system of man , the dog , and cat , show a distinct fibrillation on being treated with dilute acetic acid .
Not only did he trace these fibrils from the dendritic processes to the axis cylinder process , but also from one dendron to other dendra .
As far as the arrangement of nerve-fibrils in nerve cells of the spinal cord is concerned , no new facts have been added to what Beale published 43 years ago , although by recent methods nerve-fibrils can be made plain to those who have no special gifts for microscopic work .
" Microscopical researches were to Beale a labour of love , and all who study his directions , how to become proficient in this line of investigation , cannot fail to be drawn unconsciously to follow the paths Beale travelled , and to endeavour to achieve as much as he did .
" P. H. P-S .

