" The Blood-Corpuscle considered in its different phases of development in the Animal Series .
" By Thomas Wharton Jones , Esq. , F.R.S. , Lecturer on Anatomy , Physiology and Pathology , at the Charing Cross Hospital .
This paper is divided into three parts : the first relating to the blood-corpuscles of the Vertebrata ; the second to those of the Invertebrata ; and the last to a comparison between the two .
He first describes the microscopic appearances of these corpuscles in different classes of vertebrate animals , beginning with the skate and the frog , and proceeding to birds and mammifera ; first in their early embryonic state , and next in the subsequent periods of their growth .
He finds in oviparous vertebrata generally , four principal forms of corpuscles .
These he distinguishes as the phases , first of the granule blood-cell , which he describes as a cell filled with granules , disclosing by the solvent action of dilute acetic acid on these granules a vesicular , or as the author terms it , a " celleeform " nucleus .
These granule cells appear under two stages of development , namely , the coarsely granulous stage and the finely granulous stage .
The second phase is that of the nucleolated blood-cell , oval in shape , containing a vesicular ( or " celleeform " ) nucleus , and red-coloured matter .
These cells likewise appear under two stages of development ; colourless in the first and coloured in the second , in which last stage it constitutes the red corpuscle .
In the early mammiferous embryo , he finds , in addition to the former , a third phase , that offree vesicular nucleus , exhibiting , like the nucleolated cell , the colourless and the coloured stages .
On examining the corpuscles of the lymph of vertebrate animals , the author finds them in all the classes to be identical in structure with their blood-corpuscles , and differing only in the inferior degree of coloration attending their last stage .
In the oviparous classes , he observes that the nucleolated are more numerous than the granule cells , while in the mammifera the latter are predominant , which is the reverse of the proportion in which they exist in the blood of these animals .
He finds that some of the nucleolated cells of the contents of the thoracic duct exhibit a marked degree of coloration , and have an oval shape ; thus offering a resemblance to the blood of the early embryonic state .
The blood-corpuscles of all the invertebrate animals in which the author examined them , present the same phases of granule and nucleolated cells as in the higher classes , 9xcept that in the last stage of the latter phase the coloration is very slight , but the vesicular nucleus is frequently distinctly coloured .
As in the higher classes , corpuscles exist in different states of transition from the granular to the nucleolated form of cell .
In some of the invertebrata , corpuscles are found which appear to be the nuclei of some of the nucleolated cells become free ; and these the author considers to be abortions , rather than examples , of cells having attained their third phase of free cells .
Corpuscles are also met with in these animals , in greater or less abundance , belonging to the lowest forms of organic elements , namely , elementary granules .
The comparison which the author institutes between the bloodcorpuscles of the vertebrate and invertebrate divisions of the animal kingdom , tends to show that they in all cases pass through similar phases of development , except with respect to the last , or coloured stage of the nucleolated cell , which they do not attain in the lower classes of animals .
He finds that the blood-corpuscles of the crab , according to an analysis made by Professor Graham , contain a sensible quantity of iron , perhaps as much as red corpuscles .
He considers the corpuscles of the blood of the invertebrata , in as far as re .
lates to the absence of nucleated cells , as resembling those of the lymph of vertebrate animals .

