474 Prof. J. C. Ewart .
[ Feb. 25 , oar tabulation areas .
One main object is that our primary framework of areas and .
sub-areas should separate our species and genera ( so far as possible ) into those areas and snb-areas ; if a boundary line is drawn between two sub-areas A and B , so that nearly all the species found on one side of it are also found on the other , then we might as well , in this tabulation , have thrown the two sub-areas A and B into one , and saved ourselves labour .
This brings us round practically pretty nearly to Wallace 's view again ; i.e. , geographic framework for reference and tabulation must be as near as possible to a system of natural biologic regions , subject to the condition that the boundary lines are rapidly and accurately fixed , and are easily remembered .
It is impracticable to effect large tabulations of tens of thousands of specimens if it is necessary continually to refer to some special large-scale map .
The present paper is not intended to include marine regions or areas .
V. " The Electric Organ of the Skate : Observations on the Structure , Relations , Progressive Development , and Growth of the Electric Organ of the Skate .
" By J. C. Ewart , M.D. , Regius Professor of .
Natural History , University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by Prof. J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received February 10 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) After referring to the observations of Stark , the discoverer of the skate 's electric organ , and to the work of Robin , Leydig , Babuchin , and others , the author describes the arrangement of the muscles in the tail of Selachians with a view to determining which muscles in the skate are transformed into the electric organs .
By comparing the caudal muscles of , and Raia , it is made out that , while the middle row of muscular cones remains unaltered in the sharks and rays , it is transformed into a more or less perfect electric organ in the skates , the various members of the genus Raia .
It is pointed out that , while the middle row of muscular cones is transformed in Raia into electric cones , the two adjacent rows of cones as in the rays and certain sharks diminish in size , and in some cases disappear about the middle of the tail .
In considering the structure of the organ , it is stated that , when the various modifications are taken into consideration , it may he described as consisting of a series of electric cones made up of more or less completely metamorphosed muscular fibres .
Twenty-eight distinct cones were counted in the organ of R. batis .
The first , which in a half grown fish measured 5 cm .
in length , was all hut 1892 .
] 77/ c Electric Organ of the Skate .
completely invested by the last unaltered muscular cone .
From the first to the tenth the cones slightly increased in length ; but from the eleventh they diminished in length , the twenty-sixth measuring only O'75 cm .
Beyond the twenty-eighth there were from six to eight incomplete cones .
In transverse sections the anterior third of the organ was seen to present an oval or rounded form , while the middle and posterior thirds were less regular , owing to the organ coming into contact with the vertebral column , and being grooved by the dorsal and ventral muscles .
The cones are described as consisting of numerous loculi or chambers , each having an electric disc suspended by nerve fibres from its anterior wall , and occupied in front and behind the disc with gelatinous tissue .
It is estimated that each organ in hatis is made up of about 10,000 electric elements , i.e. , about 20,000 in the two organs .
Torpedo marmorata has about 500,000 , and T. about 1,000,000 , elements in the two batteries , all considerably larger than those of the skate .
The layers of the electric discs , the electric , striated , and alveolar , are described in detail ; and the various views as to the termination of the nerve fibrils in the disc are referred to .
In the chapter on the progressive growth of the organ a table is given to show that in B. hatis the organ , after a time , grows at a greater rate than the tail in which it is lodged , e.g. , in fish 60 cm .
in length the tail measures about 28 cm .
, and the electric org'an 22 5 cm .
; well-formed discs having an area of 0'8 to 1 sq .
mm. In fish 225 cm .
in length the tail measures 85 cm .
, the organ 70 cm .
, and the discs have an area of about 2'08 sq .
mm. In fish from 25'5 to 30'5 cm .
in length the organ is from 12'78 to 14 0 cm .
, and weighs 0'5 to 0'6 gram ; in fish from 83'5 to 91'25 cm .
the organ is from 30'50 to 34'25 cm .
, and weighs from 6'0 to 8 0 grams ; in fish 157 cm .
, the organ measures 48'25 cm .
, and weighs 25'00 grams ; while in 225 cm .
fish the organ , which measured 70 00 cm .
, weighed 156 00 grams .
These facts , especially the great size and weight of the organ in large skate ( about 7 feet in length ) , do not seem to point to the skate 's organ being in process of degeneration ; more especially as the increase in size is not accompanied by any histological changes of a retrogressive nature , the largest organ examined j being apparently as perfect as that of Torpedo and Gymnotus .
In discussing the organ from a physiological point of view , reference j is made to the investigations of Sanderson and Gotch , and it is j pointed out that , when the electric plate is taken as the unit , the value per square millimetre of the single plate of the skate is in all probability equal to , if not greater than , that of the torpedo .
476 Presents .
[ Feb. 25 , The structures of the organs of the skate and torpedo are compared at length , and it is shown that in the case of the torpedo all the non-essential structures are absent , while the all-essential part , the electric layer or plate , closely resembles the corresponding layer or plate in the skate , the electric layer of R. circularis being especially like that of the torpedo .
In considering the modifications of the electric organ in the skate genus , it is shown that in all the British species , with the exception of B. radiata , B. circularis , and B. , the elements are in the form of discs .
In the three exceptions the elements are more or less cup-shaped .
In B. radiata , as described in a former paper , they are in the form of thick-walled shallow cups .
The electric plate , apparently a greatly enlarged motor plate , lines the cup , which throughout resembles an ordinary striated muscle .
In B. , a more specialised member of the group , the electric elements are larger and better developed .
The cups are deep and well moulded , and the electric layer is even more complex than in R. batis ; at least , it more closely resembles the electric layer of the torpedo .
Further , the cups are invested by a. thick nucleated cortex , from which a number of delicate short processes project\#151 ; the first appearance of the long prongs found in R. batis .
In B. fullonica the electric elements stand nearly midway between the only partially transformed muscular fibres of B. radiata and the complex discs of B. batis .
The cups in B. fullonica are less deep than in B. circularis ; and while the electric and striated layers appear to be all but identical in the two species , the cortex is decidedly more like that of B. batis .
The short simple processes of R. circularis are represented in B. fullonica by processes , \#171 ; often complex , which , by projecting freely from the outer surface of the cup , give it an irregular villous appearance , and at once suggest the processes or prongs which are so characteristic of the alveolar layer of B. batis .
After giving a summary of his observations on the electric organ of the skate , the author concludes by pointing out that it is not yet possible to indicate by what method the electric organs of fishes have been produced .
Presents , February 25 , 1892 .
Transactions .
Baltimore :\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Studies ( Historical and Political Science ) .
Series 10 .
Nos. 2-3 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1892 .
The University .
Brussels:\#151 ; Academy Rovale de Medecine de Belgique .
M5moires Couronnes et autres Memoires .
Tome X. Fasc 5 .
Tome XI-Fasc 1 .
8vo .
Bruxelles 1892 .
The Academy-

