The reading of Professor Forbes 's paper , " On the Temperatures and Geological Relations of certain Hot Springs ; particularly those of the Pyrenees ; and on the Verification of Thermometers , " was resumed and concluded .
The author expresses his regret that notwithstanding the great in ?
terest , more especially in a geological point of view , which attaches to every topic connected with the origin , the naiure , and the permanence in temperature of the many thermal springs met with in different parts of the world , our information on these subjects is exceedingly deficient .
On many points which might easily be verified , and which are of essential consequence towards obtaining a satisfactory theory of the phenomena , we as yet possess but vague and uncertain knowledge .
It is evident that the first step towards the establishmentof such a theory must consist in the precise determination of the actual temperature of each spring ; from which we may derive the means of estimating by comparative observations , at different periods , the progressive variations , whether secular , monthly , oreven diurnal , to which that temperature is subject .
We have at present , indeed , not only to lament the total absence of exact data on which to found such an inquiry - , but we are obliged to confess that , owing to the difficulties which meetus even in the threshhold , we have not , even at the present day , made any preparation for establishing the basis of future investigation , by applying such methods of experiment as are really in our power , and are commensurate with the superior accuracy of modern science .
The researches of Fourier would lead us to the conclusion that , if the high temperature of these springs be derived solely from that of the interior portions of the earth , the changes which can have occurred in that temperature , during any period to which history extends , must be so minute as to be inappreciable .
On the other hand , the theory of internal chemical changes , which have been assigned as the origin of volcanos , would suggest it as improbable that this temperature has remained constantly the same ; and as a more likely occurrence , even were we to suppose that no uniform secular diminution took place , that it would be liable to occasional irregular fluctuations .
The influence of earthquakes on the temperature of hot springs is also admitted ; and it would be very desirable to learn , from a series of consecutive observations , whether abrupt changes , similar to those which have occasionally been noticed , are not of frequent occurrence .
The author has diligently laboured to collect , by observations made on the spot , materials for supplying this great chasm in the natural history of our globe .
As an essential preliminary means of obtaining accurate results , he applied himself to the verification of the scales of the thermometers he employed in these researches : and he describes , in a separate section of this paper , the methods which he adopted for the attainment of this object .
He first fixed with great precision the standard points of each thermometer , namely the freezing and boiling temperatures of water , by a mode which he specifies : and afterwards determined the intermediate points of the scale by a method , similar to that of Bessel ; namely , that of causing a detached column of mercury to traverse the tube ; but simpler in practice .
Instead of employing for that purpose columns of mercury of arbi ?
trary length , and deducing by a complex and tentative process the portions of the tube having equal capacities , the author detaches a column of mercury from the rest , of such a length as may be nearly an aliquot part of the length of the scale for 180 ?
j and causes this column to step along the tube ?
the lower part of the column being brought successively to the exact points which the upper extremity had previously occupied : so that , at last , if its length has been pro ?
perly chosen , the upper end of the column is found to coincide with the end of the scale : and this being accomplished , it is easy to apply to every part of the actual scale of the instrument the proper correc ?
tions , which may , for greater practical convenience , be drawn up in the form of a table .
In the next section , the author gives a detailed account of his observations of the mineral springs of the Pyrenees , made during the months of July and August , 1835 , following them in their natural order from west to east , and describing their geological positions , the special circumstances of interest relating to them , and their actual temperatures .
In the third and last section he extends his inquiries to the hot springs met with in some other parts of Europe ; and in particular , those of the baths of Mont d'Or and of Bourboule , in France ; of Baden-Baden , in Germany ; of Loesche , or Leuk , in the Vallais ; of Pfeffers , in the canton of St. Gall , in Switzerland ; and the baths of Nero , near Naples .
The final results of all the observations contained in this paper are presented in the form of a table , with com ?
parative columns of those derived from some unpublished observations of M. Arago , and of those of M. Anglada .

