IV .
" Observations on the Anatomy of the Thyroid Body in M1an .
" By GEORGE W. CALLENDEIR , Lecturer on Anatomy at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Communicated by Mr. PAGET , Received June 8 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) Much doubt exists as to the earliest connexions of the thyroid body , whether it is developed , that is to say , with the membranous air-tube , or has a common origin with the thymus gland .
There are no reliable observations as to the formation of the isthmus or as to the origin of the pyramid , so far , at least , as man is concerned , although , with reference to the isthmus , its absence in an entire class , that of birds , and the observations of Gray on the formation of the thyroid in the chick , countenance the supposition that it results from the growing together of two lateral masses .
In a human foetus , between the seventh and eighth week , the thyroid body is closely connected with the trachea and with the lower edge of the larynx , and although consisting of but one piece is deeply notched , and thus looks as though made up of three separate lobes .
It is quite distinct from the thymus , as may be further seen in the dissection of a foetal rabbit or foetal pig , in which , whilst firmly attached to the trachea , it has no kind of connexion with the thymus .
In the human foetus no distinct evidence of the thyroid appears to exist before the sixth week , up to which time it cannot , I believe , be isolated from the structures in front of the neck .
It seems to come out from the blastema in the form of a mass in front of the trachea , and quickly acquires an imperfectly lobed appearance .
In the dissections referred to , the presence of a middle portion and its equal development with the lateral lobes lead to the inference that this central part is present from the earliest period , and that the thyroid isthmus is not formed by a growing together of two distinct sidepieces .
In examining the thyroid in foetal dogs , cats , and hares , I have always found the middle portion equally developed with the side lobes , and bounded by notches which seem to define it from them .
With the growth of the foetus the central part appears to flatten , losing the rounded , lobular condition , and sometimes disappears .
The isthmus is formed from the smaller , middle , division unitingjthe other two ; but there may be an absence of isthmus through failure of this union , the middle portion joining the right or left lobe , or a small middle lobe may remain distinct from the other two .
The pyramid is very commonly met with in the foetus , and is clearly an outlying part of the body , sometimes represented by bud-like projections , sometimes consisting of a process which reaches to the hyoid bone .
It is probable that these outgrowths from the foetal thyroid often shrink and disappear with advancing years .
The dissections of the hunan foetus lead to the following conclusions:-(1 ) The thyroid is developed in connexion with the air-tube , and has no relation with the thymus .
( 2 ) It does not consist of two separate lateral masses , and the isthmus is present from the first as a distinct central portion .
( 3 ) The pyramid is an outlying part of the body , presenting , during foetal life , all possible variations as to shape and site .

