Researches on the Integral Calculus .
Part I. " By Henry Fox Talbot , Esq. , F.R.S. The author premises a brief historical sketch of the progress of discovery in this branch of analytical science .
He observes that the first inventors of the integral calculus obtained the exact integration of a certain number of formulae only ; resolving them into a finite number of terms , involving algebraic , circular , or logarithmic quantities , and developing the integrals of others into infinite series .
The first great improvement in this department of analysis was made by Fagnani , about the year 1714 , by the discovery of a method of rectifying the differences of two arcs of a given biquadratic parabola , whose equation is x*= .
y. He published , subsequently , a variety of important theorems respecting the division into equal parts of the arcs of the lemniscate , and respecting the ellipse and hyperbola ; in both of which he showed how two arcs may be determined , of which the difference is a known straight line .
Further discoveries in the algebraic integration of differential equations of the fourth degree were made by Euler ; and the inquiry was greatly extended by Le ?
gendre , who examined and classified the properties of elliptic inte ?
grals , and presented the results of his researches in a luminous and well-arranged theory .
In the year 1828 , Mr. Abel , of Christiana , in Norway , published a remarkable theorem , which gives the sum of a series of integrals of a more general form , and extending to higher powers than those in Euler 's theorem ; and furnishes a multitude of solutions for each particular case of the problem .
Legendre , though at an advanced age , devoted a large portion of time to the verification of this important theorem , the truth of which he established upon the basis of the most rigorous demonstration .
M. Poisson has , in a recent memoir , considered various forms of integrals which are not comprehended in Abers formula .
The problem , to the solution of which the author has devoted the present paper , is of a more general nature than that of Abel .
The integrals , to which the theorem of the latter refers , are those comf*Vdx prised in the general expression / ?rrr where P and R are entire polynomials in x. Next in order of succession to these , there naturally presents itself the class of integrals whose general expression is y'P dx ----- , where the polynomial R is affected with a cubic , instead\/ R of a quadratic radical ; but Abel 's theorem has no reference to these , and consequently affords no assistance in their solution .
The same may be said of every succeeding class of integrals affected with roots of higher powers .
Still less does the theorem enable us to find the sum of such integrals as j &lt; p ( R ) dx ; R being , as before , any entire polynomial ( that is , containing at least two different powers of x ) , and &lt; p being any function whatever .
The author then details the processes by which he arrives at the solution of this latter problem .

