884 .
] On the Electrolysis of Dilute Sulphuric , SfC .
215 Somewhat similar experiments have also been made with glass tubes nth negative results .
The author has also made a few experiments to ascertain the afluence of a voltaic current in increasing or diminishing the flow of hydrogen through the medium , but so much depends upon the structure of the metallic surfaces in contact with the medium and their elative sizes , as well as upon the electromotive force , \amp ; c. , of the \gt ; attery used , that this subject would probably require somewhat .laborate researches .
The author , however , hopes to make further investigations into the nature of the movements of hydrogen produced in vitreous matters , nd in metals .
II .
" On the Electrolysis of Dilute Sulphuric Acid and other Hydrated Salts .
" By J. H. Gladstone , PhD .
, F.R.S. , and Alfred Tribe , Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College .
Received December 20 , 1883 .
On the 1st of March last a communication was presented to the Royal Society by Professor Frankland , in which , among other things , the reactions we had described as taking place in the charging and discharging of secondary batteries were confirmed .
The author expressed these reactions , however , by formulae founded on the electrolysis , not of H2S04 , but of hexabasic sulphuric acid , H6S06 , in accordance with the views of Bourgoin .
The point of difference is a small one , but it led us to look into the papers of Bourgoin , and to examine the evidence upon which his views were based .
The French chemist ( " Ann. de Chimie , " 1868 ) treats of the electrolysis of sulphuric acid merely as an illustration of his method for determining the composition of hydrated Salts in solution generally.* This method consists in electrolysing a given solution in a divided cell , analysing the liquid in each compartment at the close of the experiment , and , in the case of dilute sulphuric acid , collecting the- hydrogen set free .
In the case of a solution of sulphuric acid , of course , the positive compartment may be expected to increase in strength as a consequence of the electrolytic action , and the negative compartment to decrease in strength in the same degree .
Bourgoin calls the increase of the acid in the positive compartment a , and concludes that 2\#187 ; represents the amount of sulphuric acid electrolysed .
This conclusion rests on the well-known theoretical views of Grotthuss , and , did his theory express all that goes on in the electrolytic process , the method would readily discriminate between the actions represented by the following formulae : VOL. XXXVI .
Q Dr. J. H. Gladstone and A. Tribe .
[ Jan. 1 Before Electrolysis , After Electrolysis .
Positive pole .
Negative pole .
( i. ) so3h2o = S03-j-0 h2 ( 2 .
) S033H20 = so8+o , h6 ( 3 .
) S03nH20 = S08 -+\#166 ; On H-2\#187 ; But it was pointed out by Reuss , as far back as 1807 , that win electrolytic action occurs across a permeable diaphragm , a portion t the liquid may travel from the positive to the negative compartmex of the compound cell by what is now called electrical endosmogr Daniell and Miller ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1844 ) pointed out that in elei trolytic action there was also an unequal transference of the ions .
1 is evident that each of these actions must introduce additional tern into the formula with which Bourgoin worked .
Moreover , Danie ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1839 ) investigated the electrolysis of sulphuric acij of very different strengths by a similar method , and in a review of th evidence ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1840 ) concluded that for each equivalent tj hydrogen liberated , the acid which passed across the diaphragm wa !
not more than one-fourth nor less than one-fifth of an equivalent Most of his experiments incline to the former .
Did 2\#171 ; , therefore represent the amount of sulphuric acid electrolysed , it would appea from his results that tetra- , and not hexa- , basic sulphuric acid wa decomposed by the current .
Again , Hittorf , in 1853 ( vide Wiede mann 's " Electricity , " vol. ii , p. 589 ) , observed that for one equiva lent of hydrogen liberated , the amount of sulphuric acid which wa found in the positive compartment varied , but not regularly , with th .
strength of the acid .
These discrepancies , both of observation ant deduction , led us to make some experiments on the subject ourselves .
The apparatus we employed consisted of a U -shaped tube of about 70 cub. centims. capacity , having a stop-cock in the centre of the horizontal part .
The vertical parts of the apparatus were divided into millimetres , and the hole in the stop-cock packed with asbestos , 884 .
] On the Electrolysis of Dilute Sulphuric Acid , 8fc .
217 We found that the closeness of the packing could be so nicely adjusted as scarcely to allow mechanical admixture of the fluids , on he one hand , or electrical endosmose on the other .
In our experiments we varied the current density , and , unlike Bourgoin ( " Annals le Pharmacie , " vol. xv ) , found that the increase of sulphuric acid in the positive compartment per equivalent of hydrogen set free decreased along with the decrease in the current density .
The \#166 ; strength of acid was 4*2 per cent. The results are set out in the annexed table .
Current in milli-amperes .
Time in hours .
Increase of sulphuric acid in positive compartment for one part of hydrogen set free .
32 8 20 9*17 33 *4 6 9*5 72 3 2*5 10 -3 72-7 2 9*4 106 2 11 *0 117 2*5 10*5 215 1*5 12 05 220 1 12 04 229 2 12*31 ; It is necessary also to bear in mind the remarkable phenomenon called by the Germans " Wanderung der Ionen .
" Daniell long ago described an experiment in which he placed dilute sulphuric acid in the positive compartment and a solution of sulphate of copper in the negative .
He found that when 15'5 grs. of copper had been deposited on the negative electrode there were 23 grs. of sulphuric acid in the same compartment .
Now , as 15*5 grs. of copper are equivalent to 24 grs. of sulphuric acid , and as Bourgoin 's formula allows for the formation of only half an equivalent of sulphuric acid , that is 12 grs. , it is evident that there was a considerable accumulation of that substance unaccounted for .
In two similar experiments made with our apparatus , we obtained for 0T47 and 0*125 grm. of deposited copper respectively 0*209 and 0*180 grm. of free sulphuric acid .
The half equivalents would be 0*114 and 0*097 grm. respectively .
The excess of acid in all these cases is due to the " unequal transference of the ions .
" If both compartments had been filled with sulphuric acid , some similar transference would doubtless have taken place , in addition to what is expressed in Grotthuss ' chain of decomposition .
We conclude , therefore , from our own results , as well as from those of previous experimenters , that the method employed is incapable of determining whether it is H2S04 or some hydrate which yields to the currentQ 2 218 On the Electrolysis of Dilute Sulphuric Acid , Sfc .
[ Jan. JT Copper Sulphate , A careful examination of the chemical changes which accompan the electrolysis of a solution of copper sulphate appeared , howevei capable of throwing additional light on the value of this electrolyti method for ascertaining the composition of hydrates in aqueou solution .
It is well known that water forms with CuS04 a definite hydrate , CuS045H20 .
The anhydrous salt is white , the hydrate blue It is reasonable to suppose that the blue solution of this salt contains molecules of this or of some higher hydrate .
Now , if in the electro lytic process the water of hydration suffers decomposition alone with the CuS04 , the primary chemical changes might be expected to be\#151 ; Positive pole .
Negative pole .
( A. ) CuS045H20 = S0^-H06 Cu + 6H3 .
But , if the water of hydration takes no more part in the electrolysis than the water of solution does , then the chemical changes would manifestly be\#151 ; Positive pole .
Negative pole .
( B. ) CuS04 = SO3 + O Cu .
Of course the collateral action\#151 ; Positive pole .
Negative pole .
H20 =0 Ha might also take place , but this would occur only with currents of considerable density .
The method is obviously capable of discriminating between these two actions , even supposing a considerable quantity of the electrolyte travelled unchanged from one compartment of the apparatus to the other .
Bor , in the first case ' , either free hydrogen would be liberated at the negative pole , or free acid formed in the negative compartment , equal to five-sixths of the total copper deposited ; the free acid , and the five-sixths of the total copper , to which it is equivalent , being produced by the chemical action\#151 ; 5H3 + 5CuS04= Cu5 + 5H2S04 ; equation A becoming\#151 ; Positive pole .
Negative pole .
CuS04,5H20 + 5CuS04 = S0^+06 Cua+5H2S04 .
On the other hand , if the action was in accordance with B there would be only a deposition of copper on the negative electrode , and no foi'mation of free acid in the negative compartment .
In the annexed table the results , and particulars of several experiments are set out .
In each experiment 25 cub. centims. of a 10 per cent. L884 .
] On the Dynamics of a Rigid Body in Elliptic Space .
219 solution of sulphate of copper were placed in the negative and positive compartments respectively of the apparatus .
The positive electrode consisted of a platinum wire , and the negative of a weighed strip of metallic copper .
Experiment .
Time in hours .
Free sulphuric acid .
Pos. Compart .
Neg .
Compart .
i. '0766 nil .
it .
2 .0936 nil .
hi .
3 '1868 .0191 IV .
3 .1501 .0204 V. 3 *2442 .0237 VI .
3 .2546 .0372 In none of these experiments was there any trace of hydrogen visibly escaping from the negative electrode , while , as will be seen ifrom the table , there was no free acid formed in the negative compartment till two hours or more had elapsed .
By that time some admixture in the horizontal part of the apparatus might reasonably be expected , and even in the greatest instance it is small as compared with the amount of salt decomposed .
Similar experiments were made with the sulphate of zinc , with similar results , no hydrogen being evolved , and little or no sulphuric acid appearing in the negative compartment .
We conclude , therefore , that it is not possible to determine the composition , or even to show the presence of a hydrated salt in aqueous solution by means of this electrolytic method .
Hi .
u On the Dynamics of a Rigid Body in Elliptic Space .
" By R. S. Heath , B.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by A. Cayley , LL. D. , Sadlerian Professor of Pure Mathematics in the University of Cambridge .
Received January 4 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is an attempt to work out the theory of the motion of a rigid body under the action of any forces , with the generalised conceptions of distance of the so-called non-Euclidean geometry .
Of the three kinds of non-Euclidean space , that known as elliptic space has been chosen , because of the perfect duality and symmetry which exist in this case .
The special features of the method employed are

