]\gt ; true , but Approximate Periodof Stable 333 is true , but the cause may lie either in the fact that is constant only for similar fluids\mdash ; that is for fluids of the same chemical type , or in the difficulty in the density of Laplace 's theory with aparticular physical property .
: ions ( 3 ) of the paper preceding and ( 12 ) we get If the density be taken as a molecular quantity then and .
From this we can derive equation ( 4 ) of the preceding paper as the expressiofi for the interfacial tension .
The expression is now seen to be wrongly derived , the false assumptions being the identity of with , and of with .
And for a similar reason the expression is inadmissible .
A Simple Method of Finding the Approximate Period of Stable Systems .
By A. MALLOCK , F.RS .
Received February Read March In practical engineering work it is often a great convenience to be able to find the period of a structure , the calculation of which , by ordinary mathematical processes , would be difficult or even impossible .
To find the period of a structure for any particular mode of vibration involves a knowledge of its stiffness ( regarded as a spring ) and of the distribution of the mass , but if the latter is known , even approximately , a knowledge of the period gives the stiffness , and the defleotions for a given load can be found by simple arithmetic .
In nearly every case likely to occur in practice a stable ructure can b9 represented , as far as its elastic displacements are concerned , by an equivalent pendulum , a pendulum , that is , which has the same period as the particular mode of vibration under consideration , and an effective mass equal to that part of the mass of the structure which is subject to vibration , but concentrated at what , for the present purpose , may be called the centre of oscillation .
The proposition on which the simple determination of period above referred to depends is as follows:\mdash ; VOL LXXXVIII .
1913 .
] Finding the Period of Stable Systems .
335 first of these corrections is small for ships of ordinary proportions , and decreases with the ratio of draught to length .
The second increases the period ( as calculated from the formula ) by something like 10 per cent. The precise amount depends on the ship 's " " lines ( 5 ) If a vertical column when struck is found to give a note of a certain pitch , the principle here used allows of the immediate determination of its flexure under any given lateral force , and if the nature and dimensions of the column are known , the pitch under no load can be determined from first principles. .
As the load on the ends increases , the natural period increases also , becoming infinite when the unstable condition is approached and hence the observation of the actual pitch gives a measure of the load which is borne .
I first noticed the relation here stated in 1878 , and since that time have found it of great use in almost countless investigations , but except for one case ( involving the same principle ) referred to by D. Bernoulli it does not , so far as I am aware , appear to have been stated in any publication .
[ April 10 , 1913.\mdash ; Dr. Schuster has pointed out to me that there were mistakes in the original text of examples ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , and ( 4 ) .
These have now been corrected.\mdash ; A. M. ]

