152 On the Variation of the Critical Velocity of Water .
[ July 16 , u An Experimental Determination of the Variation of the Critical Velocity of Water with Temperature .
" By E. G. Coker , M.A. ( Cantab .
) , D.Sc .
( Edin .
) , Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering , and S. B. Clement , B.Sc. , Demonstrator of Civil Engineering , both of McGill University , Montreal .
Communicated by Professor Osborne Beynolds , F.R.S. Received July 16 , \#151 ; Read November 20 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) The change from stream-line to eddy motion in water was first examined by Osborne Reynolds , who in his earlier experiments , introduced colour-bands into a glass pipe in which watfcr was flowing , to indicate the change in the motion , and later observed the resistance encountered in pipes over a great range of velocities .
The results of these experiments , and a consideration of the equations of motion , enabled him to express the laws relating to the critical velocity of water in pipes by the exceedingly simple equation ve = k \#151 ; , rp where vc is the critical velocity of water , r is the radius of the pipe , p is the viscosity of the water , p is the density , and k is some constant .
In the original experiments the range of temperature was very limited , and it was pointed out that " it would be desirable to make experiments at higher temperature , but there were great difficulties about this , which caused me , at all events for the time , to defer , the attempt .
" It does not appear that such experiments have since been made , and although the difficulties were great , it was resolved to test the law through a much greater range than had hitherto been attempted .
Preliminary experiments showed that at temperatures beyond 50 C. the losses due to conduction and radiation were large , and that elaborate arrangements would be required to obtain reliable results .
It was therefore decided to determine the variation of the critical velocity over a range extending from about 4 ' C. to 50 ' C. , which seemed to he sufficient as a test of the law , and , with ordinary precautions , only necessitated small corrections for the effects of conduction and radiation .
The resistance method used by Osborne Reynolds in his later experiments was employed , the arrangement only differing from his in details , such as the use of pressure chambers giving a continuous opening at the ends of the f-inch pipe examined , the employment of an inverted U-tube for measuring the pressures , and the weighing of the discharge .
Isomeric Change in Benzene Derivatives .
1902 .
] Numerous experiments at different temperatures were made when stream-line motion was maintained in the pipe , and the relation of velocity to slope of pressure was determined by logarithmic plotting , giving a series of lines , the " logarithmic homologues " at different temperatures .
The positions of these lines were found to be in substantial agreement with those calculated from the equations of motion .
Similar experiments for eddy motion were made and the logarithmic homologues were also plotted , and their intersections with the corresponding ones for stream-line motion determined .
These intersections give the minimum critical velocity , and were found to lie very approximately on a straight line in the diagram .
The law of variation of critical velocity , ve , with temperature was found to be Ve-1 oc 1 +0-03368T + 0-000156T2 , where T is the temperature Centigrade , which agrees very closely with the known variation in the viscosity of water , viz. , / z-i oc 1 + 0-03368T + 0*00022IT2 ; and it may , therefore , be concluded that over the range of temperature examined the critical velocity of water in small pipes varies directly as the viscosity .
" Isomeric Change in Benzene Derivatives\#151 ; The Interchange of Halogen and Hydroxyl in Benzenediazonium Hydroxides .
" By K. J. P. Orton , Ph. D. , M.A. , St. John 's College , Cambridge , Demonstrator of Chemistry , St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Communicated by Professor H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. Received December 1 , \#151 ; Read December 4,1902 .
In discussing the laws which govern substitution in the case of benzenoid compounds , Armstrong , in 1887 , drew special attention to the peculiar behaviour of amido- and hydroxy-compounds , from which he inferred that the phenomena of substitution were less simple than was commonly supposed .
He showed that there was evidence that the formation of para-derivatives was preceded by that of an isomeric compound formed by the displacement of the aminic hydrogen or hydroxylic hydrogen , and pointed to the probability that this might prove to be true also of ortho-compounds .
Since that time , it has been experimentally demonstrated by various chemists that the radicles , Cl , Br , I , NO2 , SO3H , can all be introduced in place of the hydrogen of the amino-group of anilines and of the imino-group of anilides , and that the compounds thus formed can be

