5 .
" On the Thermal Effects of Elastic Fluids .
" By Professor William Thomson , F.R.S. , and J. P. Joule , Esq. , F.R.S. Received June 15 , 1853 .
The authors had already proved by experiments conducted on a small scale , that when dry atmospheric air , exposed to pressure , is made to percolate a plug of non-conducting porous material , a -depression of temperature takes place increasing in some proportion with the pressure of the air in the receiver .
The numerous sources of error which were to be.apprehenided in experiments of this kind conducted on a small scale , induced the authors to apply for the means of executing them on a larger scale ; and the present paper contains the introductory part of their researches with apparatus furnished by the Royal Society , comprising a force pump worked by a steamengine and capable of propelling 250 cubic inches of air per second , and a series of tubes by which the elastic fluid is conveyed through a bath of water , by Which its temperature is regulated , a flange at the terminal permitting the attachment of any nozle which is desired .
Preliminary experiments were made in order to illustrate the thermal phenomena which result from the rush of air through a single aperture .
Two effects were anticipated , one of heat arising from the vis viva of air in rapid motion , the other of cold arising from dilatation of the gas and the consequent conversion of heat into mechanical effect .
The latter was exhibited by placing the bulb of a very small thermometer close to a small orifice through which dry atmospheric air , confined under a pressure of 8 atmospheres , was permitted to escape .
In this case the thermometer was depressed 13 ?
Cent. below the temperature of the bath .
The former effect was exhibited by causing the stream of air as it issued from the orifice to pass in a very narrow stream between the bulb of the thermometer and a piece of gutta percha tube in which the latter was enclosed .
In this experiment , with a pressure of 8 atmospheres , an elevation of temperature equal to 23 ?
Cent. was observed .
The same phenomenon was even more strikingly exhibited by pinching the rushing stream with the finger and thumb , the heat resulting therefrom being insupportable .
The varied effects thus exhibited in the " rapids " neutralize one another at a short distance from the orifice , leaving however a small cooling effect , to ascertain the law of which and its amount for various gases , the present researches have principally been instituted .
A plug of cotton wool was employed , for the purpose at once of preventing the escape of thermal effect in the rapids , and of mechanical effect in the shape of sound .
With this arrangement a depression of 0§§31 Cent. was observed , the temperature of the dry atmospheric air in the receiver being 14 ?
'5 Cent. , and its pressure 34'4 lbs. on the square inch , and the pressure of the atmosphere being 14'7 lbs. per square inch .
Erratum. .
In Mr. Joule 's letter to Col. Sabine , " Proceedings of the Royal Society , " p. 307 , line 27 , for 2-67 read 0-267 .

