1873 .
] On Mr. Spottiswoode 's Contact Problems .
425 curtain of the iris and to obliterate the sharp angle already described .
The plane of the iris is then thrown back to a level with the circumferential attachment .
The ciliary cushion , which is at the same time , one may say , slowly enlarging by the erection of the ciliary processes \amp ; c. , and which lies behind the iris , is thus instantly pressed back by the iris upon the equator of the lens , and the lens is therefore instantly accommodated for the nearer vision .
The iris is thus shown to greatly increase the rapidity of accommodation .
XIX .
" On Mr. Spottiswoode 's Contact Problems .
" By W. K. Clifford , M.A. , Professor of Applied Mathematics and Mechanics in University College , London .
Communicated by W. Spottiswoode , M.A. , Treas .
and V.P.R.S , Received June 19 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The present communication consists of two parts .
The first part treats of the contact of conics with a given surface at a given point ; this class of questions was first treated by Mr. Spottiswoode in his paper " On the Contact of Conics with Surfaces , " and general formulae applicable to all such questions were given .
The results of that paper are here reproduced with some additions ; with the exception of a few collateral theorems , these are all contained in the following Table :\#151 ; .Number of five-point conics through fixed point ... ... ... ... ..= 6 * Order of surface formed by five-point conics through fixed axis = 8 Number of six-point conics through fixed axis ... ... ... ... ... ..= 9 .Number of seven-point conics ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... =70 The second part treats of the contact of a quadric surface with a surface of the order n ; and in particular it determines the number of points at which a quadric ( other than the tangent plane reckoned twice ) can have four-branch contact with the surface .
In his paper " On the Contact of Surfaces , " Mr. Spottiswoode proves that at an arbitrary point on a surface there is no other solution than the doubled tangent plane , and gives the conditions that must be satisfied by those points at which another solution is possible .
The method here adopted is an extension of that applied by Joachim-stal to the contact of lines with curves and surfaces .
The coordinates of a point on a conic are expressed in terms of a single parameter , those of a point on a-quadric by two parameters .
To determine the intersection with a given surface we have an equation in the parameter or parameters ; and the conditions of contact are expressed in terms of the coefficients of that equation .
The special case of the intersection of a quadric with a cubic surface is treated by the method of representation on a plane .
* These results constitute the additions .

