368 Mr. W. S. Perrin .
On [ May \ the interior of the leaf , and the production of haustoria and intercellular conidiophores .
The author , reviewing the results of the investigations , points out that they afford proof that E. Graminisis not , as perhaps might have been expected , so highly specialised as an ectoparasite as to be necessarily restricted for its food-supply to cells of the epidermis ; but shows itself capable of immediate adaptation to conditions closely resembling those obtaining in endophytism .
This fact suggests the possibility that under some circumstances the mycelial hyphse of species of the Erysipha which are normally ectoparasites may penetrate into the internal tissues of their host-plants exposed through wounds caused in nature by the attacks of animals or by physical agency It is pointed out , however , that the successful entry of the hyphse might be prevented , either by the drying up of the superficial layers of cells , or by the healing processes shown by many actively growing leaves .
A Preliminary Communication on the Life History of Trypanosoma balbianii .
By W. S. Perrin , B.A. , Shuttleworth Research Student of Gonville and Caius College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by A. Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read June 8 , 1905 .
) Trypanosoma balbianii , Certes , is a primitive member of the family of the Trypanosomidse , and occurs in great numbers as a parasite in the gut of the oyster , where it may be present , either swimming freely in the fluid contents or enclosed within the crystalline style , when this structure is present .
The species has been worked at by Certes* and Lustrae , f the latter of whom describes the presence of an undulating membrane and the external features ot the process of division .
The nucleus is , however , described by neither author .
The material used in prosecuting this research was obtained from oysters fished from the Adriatic Sea , off the coast of Rovigno , but the parasite also occurs in the oysters of Schleswig-Holstein and the north coast of France .
The distribution is thus a wide one .
The research has been carried out under * Certes , ' Bulletin Soc. Zool. France , ' vol. 7 , 1882 , p. 347 ; ebenda , vol. 16 , 1891 , p- 95-+ Lustrae , ' Actes d. 1 .
Soc. Linn. Bordeaux , ' vol. 50 , 1896 , p. 265 .
1905 .
] Life History of Trypanosoma balbianii .
the guidance of Dr. von Prowazek , my great indebtedness to whom I here take the opportunity of expressing .
Structure.\#151 ; Exclusive of the male and female gametes , Trypanosoma balbianii occurs in two modifications , which will be referred to as the indifferent and female forms .
The Indifferent Form ( fig. 1).\#151 ; This is so named as it exhibits no sexual characters , and appears to give origin , directly or indirectly , to all the other three forms\#151 ; to the male gamete and female form directly , and to the female gamete indirectly through the agency of the female form .
In outward appearance the indifferent form is an elongated snake-like structure varying from about 26 yto 100 y in length , and from about 0'5 y to 3 y in breadth .
The diameter is practically uniform throughout , the two extremities being rounded off .
The body of the cell consists of a homogeneous non-granular mass of protoplasm enclosed within a tough pellicule , the periplast , which consists of a number of longitudinally-arranged fibrillse embedded in a structureless matrix .
These fibrillse are probably the active Tig .
1.\#151 ; Diagrammatic representation of indifferent form , n. , nucleus in the form of a homogeneous spirally-wound band .
u. m. , undulating membrane , e. , thickened edge of und .
mem .
p. , periplast , c. , chromatin thread connecting nuclear band and thickened edge of membrane .
agents in producing the vigorous and multiform contractions by which the animal propels itself through the fluid medium in which it lives .
A nucleus is present , typically in the form of a spirally-wound band , which extends practically from one end of the animal to the other , only a small portion of the creature , from 2 yto 3 y in length at each extremity , being free from it .
In the resting state the nuclear band is apparently homogeneous , but during longitudinal division it can be seen to become differentiated into a spirally-wound feebly-staining thread with masses of chromatin arranged along the sides at regular intervals ( fig. 2 , 2 ) .
The central thread is probably homologous with the karyosom of other Trypanosomes , while the chromatin masses correspond to the rest of the main nucleus .
As will be seen later , this central thread becomes again differentiated from the rest of the nucleus during the oncystment of the female forms .
The nuclear band is thus probably to be Mr. W. S. Perrin .
On [ May i } regarded as consisting of two parts , a central rod-like karyosom and a peri , pheral mass of chromatin , which in the normal resting nucleus masks the karyosom .
An undulating membrane may or may not be present , the variability of this structure being particularly striking .
When present it is wound spirally round the body of the Trypanosome , extending to the same distance as the nucleus at the ends .
In favourable specimens the undulating membrane can be seen at one end of the animal to be connected with the nucleus by a fine thread of substance , staining like chromatin ( fig. 1 , c ) .
At the other end the nucleus is apparently not continuous with the undulating membrane .
The edge of the membrane is thickened , and stains like chromatin .
This feature , together with the fact that the edge of the membrane is connected at one end with the nuclear band , render it probable that the membrane , at any rate in part , is a development of the nucleus .
Flagella and blepharoplast are absent .
Motion takes place in either direction with equal facility , and the anterior and posterior ends cannot be distinguished .
The indifferent forms undergo multiplication by longitudinal division within the substance of the style , and where this process has reached such a stage that the style is closely packed with the parasites , they commence to encyst at the periphery of the style , the cysts passing out from the gut into the sea to infect fresh hosts .
Where the oyster is kept out of water , the indifferent forms either encyst or undergo continued multiplication by longitudinal division , whereby they suffer great diminution in thickness , becoming in many cases mere threads , scarcely visible under the very highest powers of the microscope .
The Female Forms.\#151 ; These are so named because , from a consideration of their structure and behaviour , it seems highly probable that they are the precursors of the female gametes .
They differ from the indifferent forms in their stouter build , thicker periplast and undulating membrane , and occasional presence of vacuoles .
Structurally they grade into the indifferent forms , and it is only in their extreme state of development that the two modifications can be distinguished from one another .
In their behaviour , when subjected to adverse conditions of existence , however , the females exhibit a striking difference to the indifferent forms .
In the first place they are much more resistent , neither immediately undergoing encystment nor entering into a phase of accelerated reproductive activity on the initiation of unfavourable conditions of life ; and in the second place , when encystment does at last occur , they afford evidences of a parthenogenetic process in their nuclear changes , evidences lacking in the encystment of the indifferent forms .
From the above features of their structure and behaviour , these forms appear to % \lt ; 4j as fflei f|j ml ala aae ate lit it i !
\\amp ; \#174 ; ; hi in all i U ion J ?
tli !
g i , i iti\#171 ; 4 .
ji # ai- t\gt ; ii fK 1905 .
] Life History of Trypanosoma balbianii .
deserve to be regarded , provisionally at any rate , as being of female character , although the intermediate stages between them and the female gamete have not been obtained .
In the indications it affords of the existence of indifferent and female forms , Trypanosoma balbianii resembles Trypanosoma noctuce described by Schaudinn.* The question of the relationships of Trypanosoma balbianii with other Trypanosomes will be discussed in the complete paper .
It is here only necessary to point out that Trypanosoma balbianii is by far the most primitive of all Trypanosomes known .
In many points it realises the " TJrlmmoflag died " imagined by Schaudinn as the ancestor of the Trypanosomidse , though upon the whole it is of yet more simple structure .
It is interesting also to note that in the distribution of its nuclear material through the cell in the form of a long spiral thread , Trypanosoma balbianii presents a condition not far removed from those bacteria which possess a nucleus in form of small masses of chromatin scattered through the protoplasm of the cell .
Longitudinal Division is the normal method of multiplication for both female and indifferent forms .
Division is begun by the undulating membrane dividing into two longitudinally , the body following suit .
The body does not , however , divide completely , the split which forms not extending quite up to one extremity .
It thus happens that the two halves , after separating from one another through an angle of 180 ' , remain attached at the ends , producing the appearance of a Trypanosome twice the length of an ordinary individual , which , after a period of considerable activity\#151 ; the two halves endeavouring to wriggle apart\#151 ; divides into two .
A transverse division is thus simulated in the last stage of the process of longitudinal division .
The nuclear band meanwhile undergoes a series of remarkable changes , whereby its division into two equal parts is effected .
The homogeneous band resolves itself into a spirally-wound thread , along which the remainder of the chromatic nuclear substance is arranged in small masses placed at more or less regular intervals ( fig. 2 , 2 ) .
The spiral thread , with its masses of chromatin , next condenses to lorm a straight homogeneous rod , which breaks up into segments ( fig. 4 ) .
These segments again divide into a number of small dumb-bell shaped rods ( fig. 2 , 5 ) , which , by transverse division , give rise to a number 'f approximately spherical nuclear masses , the chromosomes ( fig. 2 , 6 ) .
Each chromosome finally divides into two ( fig. 2 , 7 ) , in a plane containing the long axis of the Trypanosome , a double row of chromosomes extending through the whole length of the creature being thus produced .
The longitudinal split takes place down the middle of this double row , an equal division of * Schaudinn , " Generations- und Wirtswechsel bei Trypanosoma und Spirochaete ' ( Vorl Mitteil ) , 'Arbeit a. d. Kaiserlichen Gesundheitsamt , ' vol. 20 , 1904 .
Mr. W. S. Perrin .
On [ May \t the nucleus between the two daughter individuals being thus effected .
In the daughter individuals the nuclear material passes through the above series of stages in exactly reverse order , until the spiral band characteristic of the adult Trypanosome is reconstituted .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Diagrammatic representation of the nuclear changes occurring in longitudinal division .
1 .
Nuclear band as in normal Trypanosome , form more ladder-like than spiral .
2 .
Spiral thread with chromatin masses .
3 .
Nuclear band condensed to longitudinal rod .
4 .
Rod segmented .
5 .
Stage with dumb-bell shaped segments .
6 .
Chromosomes .
7 .
Chromosomes divided into two in the longitudinal plane of the animal .
The grouping into fours is due to the fact that the pair of chromosomes derived from one dumb-bell shaped segment remain close together .
Formation of the Gametes.\#151 ; The gametes are developed in the crystalline style of the oyster , their production being apparently occasioned by the melting of the style itself ; as large numbers of gametes , large in the case of the male at any rate , are obtained , when , by keeping the oyster out of water , the style is caused to disappear .
The development of the male gamete alone has been observed , but it seems probable that that of the female runs much the same course .
The male gamete is produced from the indifferent form by one longitudinal division ( fig. 3 ) , nuclear substance being extruded from the Trypanosome near its middle during the division .
One indifferent form thus gives rise to two gametes , the longitudinal division corresponding to the equation division , the extrusion of nuclear material to the reduction division , of higher forms .
The nuclear band undergoes the same changes as in preparing for an ordinary longitudinal division , with the exception that , at the stage when the nucleus is in the condition of a series of dumb-bell shaped segments , Fig. 3 .
Diagram representing some of the stages in the process of nuclear change occurring in the formation of the male gamete , chr .
, chromatin extruded at centre .
The upper part of the Trypanosome shows the nuclear baud in various stages of change from spiral thread to double row of dumb-bell shaped segments .
The lower half shows the double row of chromosomes .
1905 .
] Life History of Trypanosoma balbianii .
these , instead of dividing transversely to form two chromosomes , divide longitudinally , producing two longitudinal rows of dumb-bell shaped masses .
Each of the masses now divides transversely , making a double row of chromosomes .
The number of the chromosomes is now reduced to one-half , half the chromosomes of each longitudinal row being extruded at the centre of the dividing Trypanosome .
The number of the chromosomes in the fully developed gamete appears to be 32 .
In its final form the male gamete is a much elongated mass of protoplasm containing 32 spherical masses of chromatin arranged at equal intervals along its length .
The periplast is exceedingly thin .
An undulating membrane may be , but more often is not , present .
The gamete is very susceptible to external conditions , rapidly degenerating when these become unfavourable .
Female Gamete\#151 ; Only two cases of the earlier stages of conjugation have been seen in stained preparations , and here the female gamete is seen to be similar to the male , only of greater thickness .
Conjugation.\#151 ; Conjugation appears to take place at the moment of the style 's dissolution , and to be of rare occurrence .
In the two presumed cases of conjugation obtained , the male is seen to be lying in close apposition to the female for about one-sixth of its length , the remainder of the two gametes being free from one another .
Later stages , including the zygote , have unfortunately not been obtained .
Fncystment.\#151 ; This has been observed to take place in culture and within the gut of the oyster .
Encystment of the indifferent and female forms is to be distinguished , nuclear changes indicative of parthenogenesis taking place in the case of the latter .
Encystment of Indifferent Forms.\#151 ; The forms about to undergo encystment cease to swim irregularly about , remain in one spot and enter upon a phase of activity , in which characteristic motions , varying considerably in different cases , are performed , a periodic reversal of direction being , however , common to all .
During the motile period the nuclear band undergoes the series of changes described in the case of longitudinal division , condensing and breaking up into a number of isolated chromosomes .
No differentiation out of the karyosom occurs .
Motion ceases and the periplast bursts , protoplasm and nuclear elements flowing out to form an irregular mass , which condenses to form a spherical cyst .
The chromosomes undergo secondary fusion into irregular masses and later become indistinct .
The periplast takes no part in the formation of the cyst .
This method of encystment is reminiscent of the spore formation of the bacteria .
The cysts do not appear to have a well developed membrane , although the contour is sharply defined .
The Mr. W. S. Perrin .
On the [ May it absence of a hard shell or tough membrane is probably correlated with the aquatic environment of the oyster , which would render only slight protection of the cyst contents necessary .
Encystment of the Female Forms\#151 ; In all its general features this resembles that of the indifferent forms , the cysts alone being larger in correspondence with the larger size of the females themselves .
In point of nuclear change , however , as above mentioned , important differences manifest themselves .
When encystment is comparatively far advanced , and the majority of the cell contents have emerged from the periplast , two small masses of deeply staining nuclear substance , connected by a feebly staining thread , are to be observed in favourably stained specimens .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Schematic representation of female form encysting , p. , empty periplast , c. , cyst in process of formation , k. , karyosom .
This thread , with its two terminal chromatin masses , I interpret as being the karyosom of the nuclear band , with its chromatin aggregated at each end .
This karyosom may occupy various positions with regard to the rest of the nucleus , which is now condensed , but usually passes through it .
The two terminal masses of chromatin now appear to divide two or more times , the products of division remaining always connected to one another by a colourless thread .
Most of these daughter bodies degenerate , but two remain over , one at each end of the thread , and appear to conjugate with one another .
The whole process recalls somewhat the nuclear changes of the parthenogenesis described by Schaudinn in the case of Trypanosoma noctuce .
The fate of the karyosom after the conjugation , and of the main portion of the nucleus is difficult to trace , but both structures become indistinct and possibly diffused throughout the cyst protoplasm , giving rise to a chromidial condition similar to that described by R. Hertwig in the case of Summary of the Life History .
In summarising the main points in the life history of Trypanosoma balbianii it is seen that the whole of the developmental cycle with the exception of the growth of fresh individuals from the cysts , takes place in the gut of a single host .
In the style the Trypanosomes undergo longitudinal division as the normal method of multiplication , and when the number has become 2905 .
] Life History of Trypanosoma balbianii .
375 considerable , in many cases encyst at the periphery of the style .
In the style also many individuals undergo degeneration , the empty shells of periplast and torn off undulating membrane occurring at times in considerable quantities .
When the style disappears production of the gametes occurs , followed by conjugation .
When for any reason the oyster is subjected to a hunger period and the style disappears , the indifferent forms either encyst or multiply rapidly , becoming much attenuated in the process .
The female forms are , however , more resistent , and under these conditions do not multiply , but after a time ^ encyst .
Intra-epithelial stages in the gut do not appear to occur , frii Transmission of the parasite appears to take place by cysts alone .
The points of greatest interest brought to light in the study of Trypanosoma balbianii are perhaps the following :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The primitiveness of the nuclear relations in the normal individual .
( 2 ) The extraordinary variability of the undulating membrane , a variability which has not been correlated with any definite conditions of life .
( 3 ) The method of nuclear change , involving the condensation of the spiral nuclear band into a rod which segments into chromosomes .
( 4 ) The method of encystment and condition of the nucleus recalls the bacteria .
, j ( 5 ) The existence of appearances in the encystment of the female forms suggestive of parthenogenesis .
( 6 ) The method of the formation of the male gametes , involving a longitudinal division and the extrusion of nuclear substance .
( 7 ) The resistant nature of the female forms and great susceptibility of the male gametes to unfavourable conditions .
( 8 ) The correlation of the production of gametes and occurrence of conjugation with the disappearance of the style .
far .

