Observations on Stomata .
IX .
" Summary of the principal Results obtained in a Study of the Development of the Tuatara ( By Professor A. Dendy .
Communicated by Professor Howes , F.R.S. X. " Tables for the Solution of the Equation die dx~x dx , \amp ; 1 + ~2 By W. Steadman Aldis , M.A. Communicated by J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. XI .
" The Stomodmum , Mesenterial Filaments , and Endoderm of Xenia .
" By J. H. Ashworth , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor Hickson , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Long Vacation to Thursday , ovember 17th , 1898 .
" Observations on Stomata .
" By Francis Darwin , F.R.S. Received May 31 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) The method described depends on the fact that in adult leaves inspiration is stomatal rather than cuticular , so that , other things eing equal , the yield of watery vapour depends on the degree to Inch the stomata are open , and may be used as an index of their ondition .
In principle , it is the same as the methods of Merget* and tahl.f These observers used hygroscopic papers impregnated with sagents which change colour according as they are dry or damp , and tahl , who employed paper soated in cobalt chloride , has obtained xcellent results .
In my laboratory I have used , for some years , a rgroscope for demonstrating stomatal transpiration , in which evapo-ation is indicated by the untwisting of the awn of ay present instrument is of the same general type , but the index is aade of " Chinese leaf , " i.e. , shavings of pressed and heated horn .
S If a trip of horn is placed on a dry substance , e.g. , the astomatal surface of leaf , it does not move , but on the stomatal surface , it instantly curves trongly away from the transpiring surface .
In the hygroscope the * * * S * ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1878 .
t ' Bot. Zeitung , ' 1894 .
% Darwin and Acton , ' Practical Physiology of Plants , ' 1st edition , 1894 .
S I also use the epidermis of a Yucca\#151 ; a material which I owe to the kindness f Mr. Thiselton-Dyer .
2 i 2 Mr. F. Darwin .
degree of curvature is read off on a graduated quadrant , and in is way a numerical indication of the condition of the stomata is obtai 'd The instrument makes no claim to accuracy , but has pro id extremely useful when used comparatively to indicate and 1oc\#163 ; s4 small changes in the transpiration of leaves , and therefore by im cation , changes in the condition of the stomata .
By observing the microscope the uninjured leaf of and compare the variations in the size of the stomata with the variations n the readings of the hygroscope , it is easy to convince one 's self of ae value of the method .
It must be especially noted that though all in the hygroscope readings corresponds with a narrowing of ie stomatal opening , it does not follow that zero on the hygrosccic scale means absolute closure of the stomata .
This want of sensife-ness has one advantage , namely , that cuticular transpiration hasio effect on the horn index , so that any movement of 4the index mrt depend on a stomatal transpiration .
The hygroscope indicates vtli the gradual " closure " * of the stomata that occurs as a plucked if withers .
It is generally stated that marsh and aquatic plants do ife close their stomata under these circumstances .
I find that , althoth the phenomenon is much less marked than in terrestrial plants , that , in many species , partial closure of the stomata undoubtey occurs in the aquatic class .
The most interesting fact observed in withering leaves is that a many cases the " closure " of the stoma is preceded by tempony opening , which may occur almost simultaneously with the severaie of the leaf from the plant .
Thus the hygroscope readings rise t first , and subsequently sink to zero .
The interest of this fact is te demonstration of the interaction between the guard cells and D surrounding epidermis .
The phenomenon is best seen in plants wB milky juice , but is not confined to this class .
The prelimina/ opening of le stomata occurs in the early morning , but not in p evening\#151 ; a fact which is of importance in relation to the mechanic of the nocturnal closure of the stomata .
A diminution of the stomatal transpiration can also be broug " about by compressing the stem of the plant in a vice , a process whit is known to di dnish the water supply , j " The stomatal closure is he-probably sAadaptive response to the lowering of the water-supp of the leaf , but this is not quite certain .
A series of experiments were made on the comparative effect moist and dry air , from which it is clear that the stomata " dost before any visible signs of flaccidity occur in the leaf .
When leav are exposed to air dried by H2S04 , " closure " is preceded by a remar * I use the word " closure " to mean such a narrowing of the stomatal apertu as corresponds with zero on the hygroscope .
+ F. Darwin and R. Phillips , ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' 1886 .
Observations on Stomata .
415 ily prolonged opening of the stomata\#151 ; a phenomenon which requires rther investigation .
Baranetzky* showed that slight degrees of disturbance affect anspiration .
The hygroscope gives no evidence of increased tran-iration when the disturbance is slight .
When the plant is violently aken the leaves become flaccid and the stomata " close , " and in me cases the closure is preceded by increased transpiration , no \gt ; ubt due to temporary opening of the stomata , induced by the aard cells being released from epidermal pressure before they have st their own turgor .
N. J. C. Mullerf showed that stomata may be closed by electric imulation ; my experiments show that while a strong shock narrows ie stomata , a weaker one opens them , no doubt owing to the tem-irary loss of epidermal pressure .
Some experiments on poisonous gases and vapours were made , hloroform and ether slowly " close " the stomata , which finally iopen in a normal atmosphere .
Pure C03 also slowly closes the omata .
The hygroscope is well fitted to demonstrate the fundamental facts i relation to light .
The fact that the stomata are widely open in mshine is well known ; the difference between bright and less right diffused light is not so well known , nor the fact that in ark stormy weather the stomata may be nearly closed by day , even i summer .
The effect of difference of illumination is well shown 1 certain leaves having stomata in both surfaces , e.g. , Iris , Narcissus , ad the phyllodes of Acacia cyclopis .
In these the stomata on the laminated surfaces are much wider open than on the less brightly laminated sides ; and when the plant is reversed in position in Jgard to light , the stomata rapidly accommodate themselves to the hang in illumination .
The most interesting fact in regard to the effect of artificial arkness is that it is more effectual in producing closure in the after-oon than in the morning ; and , conversely , illumination opens losed stomata more readily in the morning than later in the day .
'hese , together with other observations , tend to show a certain mount of inherent periodicity in the nocturnal closure of the tomata .
Another fact of interest is that in darkness prolonged for everal days the stomata gradually open .
This last observation is sed in the section on the mechanism of the stoma as an argument gainst the prevalent view that the stoma closes in darkness , because a the abeyance of assimilation the osmotic material , on which the urgor of the guard cells depends , ceases to be manufactured .
* 'Pot .
Zeitung , ' 1872 .
f Pringslieim 's ' Jalirbucher , ' yoI .
8 , 1872 .
Observations on Stomata .
Schellenberger* lias striven to uphold this view by showing tit in the absence of C03 the stomata close as though they were i darkness .
My experiments on plants deprived of C02 lead to ab-lutely contrary results , namely , that the stomata remain perfect open even during prolonged deprivation of C02 .
It is a vexed questionf whether or no the majority of plan close their stomata at night .
My conclusion is that in terrestrl plants ( excluding nyctitropic plants ) a great majority show so : ; closure at night ; the horn hygroscope stands at zero on the stomal surface of by far the greater number of ordinary plants .
On ta other hand , the hygroscope shows widely open stomata on ml aquatic plants at night .
StahlJ concludes that nyctitropic plan are remarkable for not closing the stomata at night ; this fact ; somewhat doubtfully confirm ; but the question is not so simple as seems , owing to the varying behaviour of the stomata at night , different temperatures .
Since the hygroscope gives numerical readings , it is possible \#166 ; represent graphically the daily opening and closing of the stomal The curve begins to leave the zero with the morning light ; it ris rapidly at first , and afterwards more slowly .
In some cases it ru .
roughly horizontally until a rapid fall begins in the evening , other cases there is a slow rise up to the highest point , which occii between 11 a.m. and 8 p.m. The hygroscope generally sinks to ze within an hour after sunset .
The effect of heat has not been fully studied , but enough has be done to confirm previous observers who find that heat opens ti stomata .
As regards the visible spectrum , I find that the red ra are decidedly most efficient , but I am not able to find any eviden of a secondary maximum in the blue , such as KohlS describes .
1 The biology of the nocturnal closure is a subject which ct hardly be discussed in a condensed manner .
It is suggested th ; the gaseous interchange of assimilation may require widely opt stomata , whereas respiration may be carried on with comparative closed apertures .
If this is so , the stomata might be to a great exte : shut at night , and an economy in the use of water effected , withoi detriment to metabolism .
Observations are given to show thi quite another effect is brought about by nocturnal closure .
As lor as the stomata are open , the transpiring leaf is considerably cool* than the dry-bulb thermometer , but at night it has almost the ten perature of the air .
In this way a saving of heat is undoubted !
effected\#151 ; but it is not easy to say whether it is sufficient to be of muci * * Bot. Zeitung , ' 1896 .
+ Leitgobf ' Mittheilungen aus dem Bot. Inst , zu Graz , ' 1886 .
J ' Bot. Zeitung , ' 1897 .
S ' Beiblatt sir Leopoldina , ' 1895 .
Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
417 actical importance to the plant .
I am inclined to " believe , from t , chs'* experiments on the depletion of leaves , that all saving of at must be valuable , by preventing the checking of translocation inch he observed on cold nights .
The mechanism of the stoma is another subject which does not ad itself to condensed treatment .
I have tried to point out that e stoma has been neglected in the modern reorganisation of plant lysiology from the point of view of irritability .
Some observers sist on the preponderant influence of the guard cells , while Leitgeb the same way exaggerated the importance of epidermic pressure , hereas the two factors should , as far as possible , be considered as irts of a whole and as correlated rather than opposed in action .
1 iv also attempted to show how the stoma , like other parts of the .ant , may be supposed to react adaptively to those signals , which we sually call stimuli .
The attempt which I have made to rank the roblem among the phenomena of irritability , is very tentative in aaracter .
I have ventured to put it forth because I am convinced iiat it is in this direction that advances will be made .
Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
Y. On the Reconstruction of the Stature of Prehistoric Races .
" By Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , University College , London .
Received June 6 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1898 .
( Abstract ) .
1 .
The object of this memoir is to illustrate the general theory by ?
hich we may reconstruct from the knowledge of one organ in a fossil \gt ; r prehistoric race , the dimensions of other organs , when the correla-ion between organs in existing races of the same species has been iscertained .
The particular illustration chosen is the reconstruction \gt ; f probable stature from a measurement of the long bones .
Up till quite recently this subject remained in great obscurity , partly on account of absence of theory , and partly for want of trustworthy data .
2 .
The estimated statures as obtained by Orfila , Topinard or Beddoe , or by use of their methods , differ widely , and those methods have no satisfactory theoretical basis .
It was usual to suppose that there was some mean or average ratio of stature to long bone , and even when it was recognised that this ratio varied with the length of the long bone , it was thought sufficient to determine it for two or three separate ranges of stature , and determine its mean value for these ranges by a very limited number of cases .
* ' Arbeiten , ' 1884 .

