t$t83.1 On ^ie Great Omentum and Transverse Mesocolon .
279 which are best adapted to their environments .
The causes of such variation , not being in any way accounted for by " natural selection , " must be looked-for either in the influence of the " environment " on the organism , or on some tendency to vary inherent in the organism itself ; and the question which now most occupies the minds of thoughtful Evolutionists , is whether the variations that have conduced to the -establishment of the higher types are " aimless , " or whether they have ^followed a definite " plan .
" From a careful consideration of all the circumstances of this case , the author comes to the conclusion not only that such a " plan " can be clearly traced out in the present case , but that " natural selection " can have had scarcely any share in determining the progressive evolution and relative distribution of the several forms of the OrUioline type .
II .
" On the Development of the Great Omentum and Transverse Mesocolon .
" By C. B. Lockwood .
Communicated by W. S. Savory , F.R.S. Received May 18 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) r The paper begins by quoting the two usually accepted descriptions of the peritoneum as far as the relations of the omentum and transverse colon are concerned .
The old account , that which makes the transverse colon to be between the two ascending layers of the great omentum , is first given .
Afterwards the new account is repeated ; this says that the colon is not between the layers of the great omentum , but only adherent to them .
The development of the colon is next mentioned , and Haller 's theory , that the colon and omentum become adherent , is discussed .
Reasons are given to show that the old account of the peritoneum is the true one , and that , therefore , Haller 's theory is unacceptable .
After speaking of the development of the omentum and its relation to the transverse colon , the changes which the author believes to occur are described .
Instead of adhesion taking place between the omentum and colon , it is shown that the peritoneal fossa , which at early periods exists between them , gradually disappears , owing to an unfolding or drawing out of the peritoneum at that point .
It is further shown that when this has taken place the transverse colon comes to be between the two ascending layers of the great omentum .
A brief description of the anatomical preparations which accompany the paper is also given .

