68 Monoclinic Double Selenates of the Nickel Group* By A. E. H. Button , D.Sc .
, M.A. , F.E.S. ( Received November 23 , 1916 .
) ( Abstract .
) In this paper the results are given of the investigation of the double salts potassium nickel selenate , rubidium nickel selenate , csesium nickel selenate , and ammonium nickel selenate , each containing six molecules of water of crystallisation , forming the group of the series Iv2M(Se04)2,6H20 in which M is nickel .
The results are absolutely in line with all those already published for the complete monoclinic double sulphate analogous series with 6H20 , and for the isomorphous magnesium and zinc double selenate groups .
The morphological and physical properties exhibit the progression in accordance with the atomic weight of the alkali metal which has been so clearly brought out by the previous work , and the ammonium salt is shown conclusively to belong to the isomorphous series , and to exhibit the peculiar traits described in connection with the other ammonium salts of this monoclinic series already dealt with .
Symmetry.\#151 ; This is the same for all the four salts , as for all the other groups of double sulphates and selenates dealt with , namely , Class 5 , prismatic-holohedral , of the monoclinic system .
Crystal Elements.\#151 ; These are:\#151 ; Axial angle / 3 .
Axial ratios .
ct : b : c. KNi selenate 104 ' 27 ' 0 -7467 : 1 : 0 -5059 RbNi selenafce 105 20 0 7395 : 1 : 0-5031 NH4Ni selenate 106 17 0 -7395 : 1 : 0 -5048 CsJSii selenate 106 11 0 7288 : 1 : 0 *4993 The axial angle of the rubidium salt is almost exactly midway between the axial angles for the potassium and caesium salts , corresponding to direct progression with the atomic weight of the interchangeable alkali metals .
The axial ratios for the rubidium salt are also intermediate .
The axial ratios for the ammonium salt are very close to the analogous values for the rubidium salt , and the axial angle of the ammonium salt is nearly identical with that of the ccesium salt .
* For full paper see ' Phil. Trans. , ' A ( not yet published ) .
Monoclinic Double .
Selenatesof the Nickel Group .
Habit._Potassium nickel selenate and caesium nickel selenate exhibit characteristic habits , very distinct from each other , dependent on the relative development of the faces of two forms , the basal pinakoid c{001 } and ^{011 } .
In the case of the potassium salt c{001 } predominates , either conferring a tabular habit or , if the prism faces | ?
{ 110 } are fairly high , giving a flat top and base to the vertical prism ( which is parallel to axis c ) ; while the \lt ; ?{011 } faces form merely small side-corner truncations .
In the caesium salt , on the other hand , the faces of the basal pinakoid c{001 } form only more or less narrow elongated strips , with large ( / { Oil } faces on each side of them , the two forms , together with low and narrow faces of the clino-pinakoid Z\gt ; { 010 } , forming a prism parallel to the inclined axis a. rIhe rubidium salt exhibits an intermediate type , in which the faces of c{001 } and ^{Oil J are more or less equally developed .
The ammonium salt also usually resembles the rubidium salt , but its intermediate character has a wider range than the very distinctive intermediate type presented by rubidium nickel selenate .
Interfacial Angles.\#151 ; The interfacial angles of rubidium nickel selenate are intermediate in value between those of the analogous potassium and caesium salts , a progressive change of angle following the replacement of potassium by the heavier and still heavier atoms of rubidium and caesium .
Thirty-six quite different angles have been measured and compared , and the average values of the changes which they show for each replacement , and the maximum amount of change of angle , are given below :\#151 ; Replacement .
Average change .
Maximum change .
K by Rb 23 ' 57 ' K by Cs 47 119 !
K by NH4 45 110 Remembering that the atomic weights of the three metals are K = 38'9 , Rb = 84*9 , Cs = 131*9 , and that the increments of atomic weight are Rb \#151 ; K = 46 , and Cs\#151 ; K = 93 ( double 46 ) , it is obvious that the average and maximum increments of angles are directly proportional to the increments of atomic weight of the metals interchanged .
The ammonium salt proves its isomorphism , although not eutropism , by the fact that the average and maximum changes , when NH4 replaces K , are not quite so large as when caesium replaces potassium , that is , the change is of precisely the same order as for the metallic replacements , and not outside their limits .
Volume.\#151 ; The volume and dimensions of the unit cells of the structural space-lattice , relatively expressed by the molecular volume and the topic Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
axial ratios , are , perhaps , the most important of all the morphological constants .
They are given below :\#151 ; Molecular volume .
Topic axial ratios .
X .
: KNi selenate , 206 *14 6 -1677 : 8 -2598 : 4 *1786 T ?
, hNi selenate 216 *96 6 -2533 : 8 4561 : 4 '2542 NK4N i selenate 216 *53 6 -2520 : 8 *4543 : 4 '2678 CsNi selenate 229 -17 6 -3317 : 8 -6878 : 4 *3378 The volume and dimensions of the unit cell are thus found to show a regular and somewhat accelerating progression from the potassium salt , through the rubidium salt , to the caesium salt , and the values for the ammonium salt are very close indeed to those for the rubidium salt .
The importance of this latter fact will be pointed out in the concluding paragraph of this abstract .
The Optical Ellipsoid.\#151 ; The ellipsoid , which graphically represents the optical properties , enlarges as potassium is replaced , first by rubidium and then by - caesium .
At the same time it rotates progressively about the symmetry axis b. Starting with the potassium salt , the ellipsoid is situated with one of its other two principal axes ( those which lie mutually at right angles in the symmetry plane ) not far from parallel to the vertical crystal axis c ; when the potassium is replaced by rubidium the ellipsoid rotates so that the axis in question moves away 3 ' further from the vertical direction , and when the rubidium is in turn replaced by caesium , the ellipsoid rotates in the same direction nearly 7 ' further , the progression being thus an increasing one .
For the ammonium salt the position is nearly truly vertical .
Optic Axial Angles.\#151 ; The optic axial angles have been measured for seven wave-lengths of light , and found to show a similar slightly increasing progression with the atomic weight of the alkali metal .
The optic axial angle for the ammonium salt is slightly larger than that for the rubidium salt .
Refractive Indices and Double Refraction.\#151 ; The refractive indices have also been determined for seven wave-lengths .
They also progress from the potassium to the caesium salt , the acceleration being , in this case , so considerable that a curious effect is produced by the simultaneous more direct progress ( almost in simple proportion ) of the double refraction which occurs .
The double refraction\#151 ; the difference between the and a indices for the same wave-length , sodium light being taken for the comparison\#151 ; is 0*0246 for KNi selenate , 0*0192 for KbNi selenate , 0*0175 for the NH4Ni salt , and 0*0094 for the CsNi salt .
The effect referred to is that , while the a and / 3 indices of Monoclinic Double Selenates of the Nickel Group .
the rubidium salt are higher than those of the potassium salt , in consequence of the first progression , the difference between the extreme indices is so curtailed by the second progression ( diminution of the double refraction ) that the y indices are just slightly less than those of the potassium salt , and the mean refractive index works out to be exactly the same for both potassium and rubidium salts .
Molecular Optical Constants.\#151 ; The true progression in refractive power is , however , best shown by the molecular refraction .
This , indeed , is probably the most important of all the optical constants , just as the volume and directional dimensions of the unit cell are the most important morphological constants .
The values in Gladstone units are given below:\#151 ; Molecular refraction .
a i8 y. Mean value .
A ( a + 6 + y ) .
KNi selenate 106 10 107 '96 111 -10 108 -39 RbNi selenate 112 -08 114 -07 116 -20 114-12 NH4Ni selenate 113*70 115-56 117-45 115 -57 CsNi selenate .
122 -90 124 '14 125 *03 124 02 The true progression with the atomic weight of the alkali metal is clearly shown by these constants , and the fact that the molecular refraction of ammonium nickel selenate is almost identical with that of rubidium nickel selenate is as impressive as , and is doubtless connected with , the closeness to identity of the volumes and directional dimensions of the unit cells of the similar space-lattices of the two salts .
Concluding Remarks .
In conclusion , two points from the above results may be specially emphasised .
Firstly , the remarkably quantitative manner in which the law of progression is indicated in the cases of the alkali metallic salts .
For it has been shown that the average and maximum amounts of all the changes in interfacial angles when potassium is replaced by caesium are exactly double those for the replacement of potassium by rubidium , corresponding precisely to the change of atomic weight , which is almost exactly double ( 93 to 46 ) .
That the ammonium salt is really isomorphous with the alkali metallic salts is proved by the fact that when ammonium is substituted for potassium the average and maximum changes of angle are no more , and , indeed , just slightly less , than if caesium were introduced instead of potassium .
The second point worthy of emphasis is the extreme closeness of the molecular volumes and the topic axial ratios of the rubidium and ammonium Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
salts of the group , representing the volumes and edge dimensions of the unit cells of the monoclinic space-lattices of the two crystal structures .
The values thus indicate very perfect congruency and almost identity of the two structures .
It will be shown in a separate communication , immediately following this paper , that this result , in conjunction with the precisely similar facts observed concerning the ammonium and rubidium salts of every group investigated by the author , including the rhombic group of simple alkali sulphates , has an important bearing on the theory of valency volumes ; for that theory is entirely incapable of explaining it .
X-Ray Analysis and Topic Axes of the Alkali and their Bearing on the Theory of Valency Volumes .
By A. E. H. Tutton , D.Se .
, M.A. , F.RS .
( Received November 20 , 1916 .
) One of the most interesting facts brought to light in the course of the author 's crystallographical investigations of the rhombic sulphates and selenates of potassium , rubidium , caesium , and ammonium , and of the monoclinic double salts containing those simple salts in combination with the sulphates and selenates of dyad-acting metals ( Mg , Zn , Fe , Ni , Co. Mn , Cu , and Cd ) , is the approximation in structure which has invariably been observed between the rubidium salt of any group and the ammonium salt of that same group .
This striking fact is again emphasised by the results for the nickel group of double selenates* laid before the Royal Society on the same day as this present communication , and of which an Abstract immediately precedes this paper .
While considerable differences occur between the structural dimensions of the potassium , rubidium , and caesium salts of the group\#151 ; differences which have been shown to follow the order of the atomic weightsf * See ' Phil. Trans. , ' A ( not yet published ) .
t Instead of " atomic weights " we may substitute with equal validity " atomic-numbers " ( the numbers of the elements according to their sequence in the Periodic Table ) .
For the atomic numbers of K , Rb , and Cs are 19 , 37 , and 55 , and their differences are similarly related , Rb-K = 18 , Cs-Rb = 18 , and Cs-K = 36 or twice 18 .
Indeed , it is probable that there is an intimate connection between this crystallographic law of the author and the law of Moseley , that the properties of an element are defined by the atomic number , which is equal to the number of units of positive electrical charge in the atomic nucleus .

