205 The Expulsion of Radio-active Matter the Radium Transfo rm By Sidney Russ , B.Sc. , Demonstrator in Physics , and Walter Makower , B.A. , B.Sc. , Assistant Lecturer and Demonstrator in Physics in the University of Manchester .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received March 18 , \#151 ; Read March 25 , 1909 .
) Introduction .
When the radium emanation is transformed into radium A , the process is accompanied by the emission of a-particles with a velocity of 1*70 x 109 cm .
per second.* The portion of the atom from which the a-particle has been .emitted , which constitutes the radium A , must therefore be subjected to considerable shock and recoil in a direction* opposite to that in which the a-particle is projected .
If we further consider that the mass of the a-particle is 4 ( H = 1 ) , and that of the active deposit of the order 100 , it follows that at the moment of its formation this product must be travelling with a velocity cf the order 107 cm .
per second .
In ordinary circumstances , when the emanation is mixed with air at atmospheric pressure , the radium A particle will possess only sufficient energy to permit it to travel a fraction of a millimetre before being- stopped by collision with air molecules .
On the other hand , at very low pressures , these particles should travel considerable distances without being stopped by the rarefied air , and come to rest on the enclosure containing the emanation .
Since the formation of radium B from radium A is also accompanied by the expulsion of an a-particle , it might also be expected that , at the moment of its formation , the recoil of the radium B atom would cause it to travel an \#166 ; appreciable distance through an evacuated space .
There is some evidence that radium B can escape from a surface which has been exposed to the radium emanation and which is therefore coated with a film of active deposit.t Now since the volatilisation point of radium B is above 600 ' C. , it seems unlikely that this phenomenon can be due to the volatility of radium B at ordinary temperatures as was at first suggested , and it may well be that the radium B leaves the surface as the result of the recoil when formed from radium A by the expulsion of an a-particle as has been suggested by Rutherford .
} * Rutherford , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' October , 1906 .
t Miss Brooks , 'Nature , ' July 21 , 1904 .
} Rutherford , ' Radio-activity , ' p. 392 .
206 Messrs. Russ and Makower .
The Expulsion of [ Mar. 18r During the course of our work these experiments have been repeated by Hahn and Meitner , * who have shown that the phenomena are even more marked when a negatively charged plate is suspended over the active surface .
In the same paper evidence is given of the projection of radium 0 into the gas surrounding a surface coated with active deposit .
Both in that paper and in another , j* evidence is adduced of similar phenomena with actinium and thorium .
The experiments to be described in this paper afford direct evidence of the recoil of radium A , radium B , and radium C , when formed respectively from the emanation , radium A , and radium B. Although hitherto no direct experiments have been made to determine the distance which the radium A Fig. 1 .
atom can travel when shot off from the emanation , a rough estimate of this quantity has been deduced by Jackson* from some previous experiments on the method of transmission of the active deposit to the cathode .
S It is well known that when radium emanation is exposed to an electric field the active deposit appears almost entirely on the cathode , indicating that , by some process which is not yet fully understood , the atom of radium A , when formed from the emanation , acquires a positive charge .
Whatever view is adopted as to the manner in which the charge is acquired , it is certain that the velocity of the radium A atom when shot off from the emanation must be considerably diminished before a moderate electric field can exert a directive influence on it , and it has in f$ct been found that alike in the case of the active deposit from thorium , || radium , IT and actinium , ** the * Otto Hahn and Lise Meitner , ' Verhandlungen der Deutschen Physikalischen Gesellschaft , ' XI .
Jahrgang , No. 3 .
f Otto Hahn , ' Physikalische Zeitschrift , ' 10 Jahrgang , p. 81 .
f Jackson , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' November , 1905 .
S Makower , ' Phil. Mag. , ' November , 1905 .
|| Rutherford , ' Phil. Mag. , ' ( 5 ) , vol. 49 , 1900 .
IT Makower , loc. cit. ** Russ , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' May , 1908 .
1909 .
] Radio-active Matter in Radium Transformations .
207 electric field exerts practically no influence if the pressure of the gas with which the emanation is mixed is sufficiently low .
Confining our attention to the case of radium , it lias been calculated by Jackson* that , in the case considered by him , when the emanation is mixed with air at a pressure of 1 cm .
of mercury , the atom of radium A travels 7 mm. before it has made sufficient collisions with air molecules to allow it to be directed by the electric field .
It will be of interest to compare this estimate with the results of the present experiments .
The case of the formation of radium C from radium B is a somewhat different one from those just considered ; for radium B does not emit a-particles , f but only ,8-particles with low velocity.$ The atom of radium C will therefore be set into far less violent motion when shot off from radium B than is the case either with radium A or B. In spite of this circumstance , it will appear from experiments to be described later , that even in this case a radium C atom can travel a considerable distance through an evacuated space .
The Radiation of Radium A and B through a Vacuum .
We have seen that when radium A is produced from the emanation by the expulsion of an a-particle , there is reason to expect that the atom of radium A is projected with sufficient velocity to cause it to travel a considerable distance through an evacuated space .
The first object of these experiments , a preliminary account of which has already been given , S was to obtain direct evidence of this radiation of radium A through a vacuum .
For this purpose the apparatus shown in fig. 1 was employed .
A cylindrical glass vessel of length 40 cm .
and diameter T7 cm .
was closed at one end and provided with a ground glass stopper A , to which a brass disc D ( diameter T6 cm .
) could be attached by a hook to a platinum wire P fused into the stopper A. Before placing the disc D in position , a suitable quantity of radium emanation could be admitted into the vessel and condensed at the bottom by immersing the closed end of the tube in liquid air .
The quantity of this emanation could be estimated by means of a 7-ray electroscope ( E ) situated near the apparatus .
After a sufficient time had elapsed for the greater part of the emanation to be condensed , and for radio-active equilibrium to be set up , the apparatus was exhausted , first by a mechanical * * * S * Jackson , loc cit. + H. W. Schmidt , ' Pliysikalische Zeitschrift , ' 1905 , p. 897 .
t ft has recently been suggested by Harvey that radium B emits a-particles , but these results require substantiation.\#151 ; ' Physikalische Zeitschrift , ' January , 1909 .
S Russ and Makower , ' Nature , ' January 21 , 1909 .
208 Messrs. Russ and Makower .
The Expulsion of [ Mar. 18 ?
pump and then by means of a bulb C , containing cocoanut charcoal immersed in liquid air so as to remove as far as possible any emanation which nikdit have escaped condensation .
Pure dry air was then re-admitted to the vessel , , the disc I ) replaced in position and the vessel re-exhausted to as high a vacuum as possible by means of the charcoal .
Since we have condensed at the bottom of the tube the emanation together with its products of disintegration , it will be seen that if the view put forward above is correct , the disc D is exposed to the bombardment of the particles of radium A and B and possibly radium C , as they are successively formed , the one from the other .
On removing the disc I ) and testing its activity by measuring the a-radiation given off from it in the ordinary way with a quadrant electrometer , the side of the plate exposed to the radiation should be found to be radio-active .
This was in fact always found to be the case .
Now this in itself would afford no evidence of the effect sought , for it is well known that when a large quantity of radium emanation is condensed in liquid air , the condensation is by no means complete , and there always exists in the vessel , above the condensed emanation , a considerable quantity of emanation in the gaseous state .
A plate situated above the emanation as described above must therefore of necessity become radio-active on this account .
But it was always found that , the activity of the surface of the plate facing the emanation was greater than that of the opposite side , and it seems quite certain that this excess of activity is due to the direct radiation of the active deposit on to the plate .
The ratio of the activity of the surface turned towards the emanation to that turned away from it has been found , under suitable conditions , to be as great as 50 to 1 .
The exact ratio obtained depends , of course , on a variety of experimental conditions , but in all circumstances the activity of the surface of the plate turned towards the emanation exceeded that of the reverse side. .
Moreover , by interposing a screen between the emanation and the plate , the excess activity collected on the surface of the plate turned towards the .
emanation could be completely obliterated .
A further experiment was tried of attaching to the bottom of the tube , shown in fig. 1 a narrow tube 3'8 cm .
long and 2 mm. diameter .
The emanation was then condensed in the narrow tube and the plate again exposed to the radiation from the emanation .
Although the surface of the disc turned towards the emanation ( henceforth called the front of the disc ) was always more active than that turned away ( henceforth called the back of the disc ) , the excess of activity was greatly diminished , as might have been anticipated , for in this case the aperture through which the radiation could reach the plate was greatly reduced .
1909 .
] Radio-active Mattel in Radium Transformations .
209 These experiments were carried out with different quantities of emanation , and the results are given in Table I. The quantity of emanation is expressed in terms of the amount of emanation which would lie in equilibrium with a definite number of milligrammes of radium bromide .
The experiments were all made at pressures less than 0 01 mm. of mercury , and the time of exposure of the discs was 40 minutes .
Table I. I. Milligrammes of RaBr2 in equilibrium with emanation used .
II .
Activity on front of disc in arbitrary units .
III .
Activity on back of disc .
IV .
Excess of front over back .
16 *35 2004 895 1109 7 -12 1010 785 225 3 44 528 342 186 1 *64 251 196 55 0 *86 57 32 25 It will be noticed that , although the excess of the activity of the front of the disc over that on the back was not as marked as in previous experiments with a larger aperture through which radiation could take place , there was always an appreciably greater activity on the front than on the back , no matter what quantity of emanation was used .
The Vapour Pressure of the Emanation .
The early experiments were carried out with the emanation from 30 or 40 milligrammes of radium bromide in order to get as large an effect as possible ; but although the radiation increased with the quantity of emanation used , it was soon found to be more advantageous to work with considerably smaller quantities , on account of the large quantity of uncondensed emanation existing above the liquefied emanation when working with these large quantities .
In fact , the emanation when liquefied does not behave as an ordinary liquid , exerting a constant vapour pressure under constant conditions of temperature and pressure , but the apparent vapour pressure depends upon the quantity of emanation condensed .
Although no complete investigation of this rather remarkable phenomenon was at the time possible , a few experiments were made to see what quantity of emanation would give as small a " vapour pressure " as possible , consistent with the condition of giving a measurable radiation of active deposit particles .
As there appear to be no available data on the variation of the apparent vapour pressure of radium emanation with the quantity used , it seems 210 Messrs. Russ and Makower .
[ Mar. 18 , desirable to give the results of some experiments which have been made on the subject .
Reference to column III of Table I shows the variation of the vapour pressure with the quantity of emanation used , for the activity which reaches the back of the plate is due entirely to the uncondensed emanation present in the apparatus .
The activity of the back of the plate after removal therefore gives an estimate in arbitrary units of the quantity of uncondensed emanation .
It will be seen that by diminishing the quantity of emanation from 16'35 to 0-86 milligrammes , the apparent vapour pressure is reduced to about one-thirtieth .
A few experiments were next made to determine in absolute measure the quantity of emanation remaining uncondensed above different quantities of liquefied emanation .
For this purpose the emanation from a known quantity of radium was condensed in a U-tube immersed in liquid air .
The emanation was first condensed in the U-tube and sufficient time allowed to elapse for radio-active equilibrium to be set up .
The quantity of emanation so condensed was measured by an adjacent 7-ray electroscope which had previously been calibrated .
The U-tube was then connected to a mercury reservoir of 864 c.c. capacity and exhausted to a pressure less than 0-01 mm. of mercury .
After some hours the mercury reservoir was disconnected from the U-tube and the emanation in the reservoir forced into a small glass bulb .
After radio-active equilibrium had been established , the quantity of emanation in the bulb was measured by comparing the 7-radiation from the bulb with that from a standard quantity of radium .
The results obtained are given in Table II .
Table II .
Milligrammes of RaBr2 in equilibrium with emanation condensed .
Milligrammes of RaBr2 in equilibrium with emanation vapour per c.c. 44 -4 0 -0026 32 -5 0 -00126 10 -6 0 -00066 6-18 !
| 0 -0007* * This observation is less reliable than the others , as the measurement of the quantity of emanation in the bulb was made two and a-half weeks after filling .
A large correction had therefore to be applied for the decay of the emanation during the interval .
No doubt the apparent vapour pressure of the emanation may depend on a variety of conditions not here investigated , but although the experiments quoted are few and the conditions unvaried , they suffice to indicate that the quantity of uncondensed emanation above the liquid may be considerable when working with large quantities of emanation .
On this account it was 1909 .
] Radio-active Matter in Radium Transformations .
211 decided to work with as small quantities of emanation as possible in subsequent experiments .
The Decrease in Radiation with Distance from the .
When some radium emanation is condensed at the bottom of the tube { fig. 1 ) , the activity acquired by the front of the disc D should depend upon its distance from the emanation .
It was found difficult to condense the emanation at the bottom of the tube , for when the tube was immersed in liquid air the emanation tended to condense in a fluorescent ring round the tube on a level with the surface of the liquid air .
In the experiments to be described , the end of the tube was immersed in liquid air to a depth of 1 or 2 cm .
and maintained nearly at a constant level , and the assumption made that all the emanation was condensed in a ring at this level .
The disc D was suspended at different distances above the emanation and measurement made of the activity acquired by it in half an hour , when at different distances from the condensed emanation .
During these exposures the pressure was adjusted to 0'037 mm. of mercury .
The results obtained are given in Table III .
As might have been expected , the activity acquired by the disc varied roughly inversely as the square of the distance from the emanation .
Table III .
Distance of disc in centimetres from condensed emanation .
d. Activity of disc after i hour exposure .
A. Ad* .
4*7 638 14,100 8-8 187 14,500 13 *5 77 -8 14,200 17 25 62-9 18,700 20-3 43*1 17,800 In making these observations , a difficulty was encountered which made itself felt throughout the experiments with the emanation .
In order to remove the brass disc from the apparatus to test its activity , it was necessary to fill the apparatus with air to atmospheric pressure and then to re-exhaust \#166 ; after replacing the disc to be tested , by another similar one .
If during this process the least trace of moisture or other impurity capable of being condensed in liquid air was accidentally admitted to the apparatus , this impurity .condensed in a thin film over the surface of the liquid emanation and caused a diminution of the radiation emitted .
An exceedingly minute quantity of .such impurity is sufficient to produce a large diminution in the radiation VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; A. Q 212 Messrs. Russ and Makower .
Expulsion [ Mar. 18 , reaching the disc , for we shall see later that the radiation can penetrate only-very small thicknesses of matter before it is completely absorbed .
After this disturbing factor had been discovered , great care was taken to-purify the air as far as possible before admitting it to the apparatus .
On this account the air was made to bubble through sulphuric acid , was then further dried by passing it over pumice stone soaked in sulphuric acid , and then over a considerable length of caustic soda to remove carbon dioxide .
The air was then finally caused to pass through a glass spiral immersed in liquid air .
Even with these precautions it was not possible to completely eliminate the trouble mentioned , but with care it was found possible to get sufficiently consistent results for the present purpose .
The Absorption of the liadiation Air and Hydrogen .
When the residue of an emanation atom recoils as the result of the emission of an a-particle , the kinetic energy of the residue will be far less than that of the a-particle , on account of its greater mass .
On this account , , the power of the residue of penetrating matter will be small compared with that of the a-particle .
Considering the case of the formation of radium A from the emanation , and taking the masses of the a-particle and radium A atom as 4 and 218 respectively , we should expect that the penetrating power of the radium A atom would be only about one-fiftieth of that of the a-particle from which it is produced .
Since the range in air of the a-particle from radium emanation is 4*35 cm .
, the atom of radium A should be completely stopped by less than 1 millimetre of air at atmospheric pressure .
The case is similar for the production of radium B from radium A , for the range of the a-particle from radium A is nearly the same as that from the emanation , being 4*62 cm .
Thus , when we have radium emanation , condensed at the bottom of a tube , we have projected from it particles of radium A and radium B of about the same penetrating power .
The following experiments have been made to determine the stopping power of air and hydrogen for this mixed radiation .
The consideration of the question of the relative quantities of radium A and radium B projected up the tube is left till later .
The disc I ) ( fig. 1 ) was exposed to the radiation of a constant quantity of emanation and the pressure of the gas between the source of radiation and the disc varied .
The first experiments were made with air , and the disc was situated 6*5 cm .
above the emanation. .
The pressures were measured on a calibrated McLeod gauge .
The discs were in each case exposed for 40 minutes to the radiation and tested between 15 and 20 minutes after removal from the vessel .
1909 .
] Radio-active Matter in Radium Transformations .
213 Pressure mm* Fio .
2 .
The results obtained are shown in fig. 2 , in which the excess of activity on the front of the disc over that on the back is plotted against the pressure of the air .
The quantity of active deposit projected on to the disc varies as an exponential function of the pressure , as may be seen from the logarithmic curve also given , the points on which have been calculated from the smooth curve drawn through the experimental points .
Although the general law of absorption is evident from this series of observations , it will be noticed that the points obtained do not lie very closely on a curve .
This inconsistency has been attributed to the cause mentioned above , for after each experiment the apparatus had to be filled with air to remove the disc , which was replaced by another .
During these operations the emanation must have become coated with a film of some impurity in the air that would be condensed in liquid air , and no amount of care in purifying the air seemed to suffice to give quite consistent results .
Although it was not thought worth while to repeat this particular series of observations , in the subsequent experiments to be described , the plan was adopted of carrying out the observations in a definite order , with a view to eliminating errors due to the condensation of impurities ou the surface of the emanation .
At the same time great care was taken to purify the air admitted to the apparatus .
The next experiment was made with the disc at a distance of 13*5 cm .
from the condensed emanation .
The observations were made in a manner similar to that just described , but a series of readings was taken first with continuously ascending values of the pressure and then with continuously descending values .
The order in which the observations were taken is indicated by arrows ( fig. 3 ) .
As before , it was impossible to repeat any particular observation , Q 2 214 Messrs. Russ and Makower .
Expulsion of [ Mar. 18 , PjR\#163 ; SS(/ #\#163 ; MM Fig. 3 .
for as the experiment continued the radiation received by the disc at any definite pressure became less and less , so that the curve with diminishing values of the pressure fell below that with increasing values .
The observations on each curve are , however , consistent with themselves , and the mean of the two curves was taken as the true curve representing the relation between pressure and activity .
From the logarithmic curves and Tables IY and Y it will be seen that when the disc is at 13'5 cm .
from the emanation the absorption of the air is about 2'6 times as great as when the disc is 6*5 cm .
from the emanation .
Table IV.*\#151 ; Air .
Disc , 6'5 cm .
from emanation .
Pressure in millimetres .
Activity of disc .
0-009 238 0T40 195 0-254 119 0-440 112 0-625 58 0-830 29 1 -150 16-5 1 -800 2 Table V.\#151 ; Air .
Disc , 13*5 cm .
from emanation .
Pressure in millimetres .
Activity of disc .
0-003 i 108 0-040 71 -5 0-095 50 -5 0-274 15 0-472 3 0-342 8 0-175 28 0-075 49 " 0 -005 70 A further series of observations was made with hydrogen instead of air with the disc 13 5 cm .
from the emanation .
The hydrogen , which was prepared from pure sulphuric acid and pure zinc , was passed first through * In this Table and in Tables Y and VI the second column represents the excess of the activity on the front of the disc over that on the back , which , in a high vacuum , never amounted to more than a few per cent , of that on the front .
1909 .
] Radio-active Matter in Radium .
215 a solution of potassium permanganate , then through sulphuric acid , and then over caustic soda .
The purification was completed by passing the hydrogen through a spiral immersed in liquid air .
The observations with hydrogen were on the whole more satisfactory and consistent than with air , but although there was no gradual decrease in the activity due to a layer of impurity being deposited over the emanation , thus causing a steady variation in the quantity of radiation , it was found that rather capricious changes in the radiation took place .
After a series of consistent observations had been made , the radiation from the emanation would suddenly be reduced and subsequent readings , though consistent among themselves , were less than would have been anticipated from the earlier observations .
No doubt these sudden changes were due to the accidental admission of some condensable impurity with the hydrogen .
With care it was found possible to obtain a sufficiently long series of consistent observations to Pressure / n nns. .
determine the absorption due to hydrogen .
The results of two sets of observations are shown in fig. 4 , the points on the logarithmic curve being calculated as in the case of air .
It will be seen by an inspection of figs. 2 , 3 , and 4 that when the disc is situated at a fixed distance from the emanation , the radiation ( r ) reaching the disc is given by the equation r = roe~xP , where r\lt ; \gt ; is the radiation reaching the disc in a perfect vacuum , p is the pressure of the air or hydrogen in millimetres , and X is a constant coefficient which gives a measure of the degree of absorption of the radiation in passing 216 Messrs. Russ and Makower .
Expulsion [ Mar. 18 , through the gas .
Calculating the value of \ from figs. 2 and 3 , we get A\lt ; 3-5 = 2*62 when the disc is situated at a distance 6*5 cm .
from the emanation , and when situated 13*5 cm .
from the emanation \i3.5 = 6*9 .
We thus see that X , }.5/ 6*5 = 0*40 and Xi3.n/ 13*5 = 0*51 .
Having regard to the difficulty of knowing exactly where the emanation is condensed and , therefore , of determining the distances of the discs from the emanation , these numbers are in fair agreement .
In the case of hydrogen , experiments were carried out only at a distance of 13*5 cm .
from the emanation .
The value of the coefficient ( \H ) for this distance will be seen , by reference to fig. 4 and Table VI , to be 4*2 .
Thus for a distance 13*5 cm .
from the emanation , the ratio ^air/ Vhydrogen 6 9/ 4 2 = 1 64 .
Table YI.\#151 ; Hydrogen .
Disc , 13*5 cm .
from emanation .
Pressure in millimetres .
1 Activity of disc .
Pressure in millimetres .
1 Activity of disc .
0 045 109 0-482 15 -5 0*080 89 0-663 5-5 0-150 60 0-682 10 0-195 50 0-835 4 0-223 42 -5 1 *010 1 -5 0-357 30 Considering that the density of air is 14*44 if that of hydrogen is taken as unity , we see that hydrogen is much more efficient in absorbing this radiation than could be expected from its density .
The Composition of the Radiation from the Emanation .
So far no evidence has been recorded as to the composition of the radiation through a vacuum from the emanation .
It was of importance to decide whether both radium A and radium B were projected through the vacuum or whether the observed effects were due to .one of these products alone .
To decide this question the decay curves of the activity collected on the disc suspended above the emanation were determined .
Although several other observations were made , the results of only two experiments are given , which suffice to demonstrate beyond doubt that both radium A and radium B are expelled from the emanation into the vacuum .
Both experiments were made with the disc subjected to the radiation , situated 6*5 cm .
above the emanation , and the pressure of the air between the emanation and the disc was maintained below 001 millimetre of 1909 .
] Radio-active 'Matter in Radium .217 mercury .
In the first experiment the disc was exposed to the radiation from the emanation for 40 minutes .
The results of these experiments are shown in tig .
5 , curve I , in which the activity of the disc is plotted against the time , reckoned from the instant of removing it from the source of radiation .
On the same diagram curve 1 ( a ) is shown the well-known a-ray decay curve of the active deposit obtained by exposing a negatively charged conductor to Time / ai Minutes Fig. f\gt ; .
the emanation for the same time .
The difference between the two curves is striking and can at once be explained if we suppose that , whereas when a negatively-charged conductor is exposed to the emanation only radium A is deposited , which subsequently disintegrates , in the present case both radium A and radium B reach the plate by radiation .
A similar pair of curves II and II for the case of an exposure of 10 minutes , is plotted in the same diagram .
It will be seen that in this case , too , the ordinary decay curve falls below the curve obtained by the radiation method .
As might be expected , the difference between the two curves for this short time of exposure is less marked than with a long exposure .
A complete analysis of the decay curves is at present withheld .
The Number of Particles of Radium A and Radium B projected from the Emanation into a Vacuum .
Having established that both radium A and radium B are projected on to a disc through a vacuum from the emanation condensed at the bottom 218 Messrs. Russ and Makower .
The Expulsion of [ Mar. 18 , of a tube , it becomes possible to calculate the ratio of the number of particles reaching the disc in a known time to the total number of particles formed from the emanation .
This can be done by considering the activity of a disc exposed to the radiation from the emanation for a time sufficient for radioactive equilibrium to be set up between the emanation and the particles of radium A and radium B on the disc .
A disc was therefore exposed for more than three hours to the emanation from IT8 milligrammes of radium which had been condensed at the bottom of the tube for sufficient time for equilibrium to be set up between the .
emanation and its products of disintegration .
Now it was found that immediately after removing the disc from the radiation from the emanation it produced a deflection of 828 scale divisions per minute on the scale of the electrometer used to-measure its activity .
A plate upon which polonium had been deposited , when similarly situated in the measuring apparatus , gave a deflection of 1800 scale divisions per minute .
Now it was known that the quantity of polonium on the plate emitted 5'07 x 104 a-particles per second.* Since 1 gramme of radium emits 3*4 x 1010 a-particles per second , f the polonium standard gave off the same number of a-particles as would have been emitted from 1'49 x 10~3 milligramme of radium .
The active disc tested therefore gave off the same number of a-particles as would have been emitted by 6'9 x 10"4 milligramme of radium .
But at the moment of its removal from the radiation from the emanation , the number of a-particles emitted by the radium A and radium C on the disc must have been nearly equal .
Consequently there must have'been on the disc the quantity of radium A and radium C in radio-active equilibrium with 3*45 x 10-4 milligramme of radium .
Since 1T8 milligrammes of emanation were used in the experiment , the quantity of radium A and radium C on the disc was 2'92 x 10-4 of the total quantity of ladium A and radium C in equilibrium with the emanation .
Considering that the disc was at a distance of 7 cm .
from the emanation , and that the area of the disc was 2*01 square centimetres , it is clear that even if every particle of radium A and radium B escaped from the emanation as it was formed by the expulsion of an a-particle , the fraction of the whole radiation reaching the disc would have been 3-3 x 10-3 .
We see , therefore , that about one-eleventh of the particles projected from the emanation , in directions included within the solid angle subtended by the disc , actually reached the disc .
Having regard to the easy absorption of * We are indebted to Dr. Geiger for supplying us with this number , which had been determined by him by counting the number of scintillations produced per second on a zinc sulphide screen situated at a known distance from the polonium .
t Rutherford and Geiger , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 81 , p. 174 .
1909 .
] Radio-active Matter in Radium Transformations .
219 these particles by matter , there seems little doubt that with a sufficiently thin layer of emanation free from all impurities and in a sufficiently high vacuum every particle of radium A and radium B emitted from the emanation would be radiated from the emanation .
The Radiation of Radium B and Radium C. The experiments with radium emanation condensed at the bottom of a tube have shown that active deposit particles are projected through a vacuum on to a disc exposed above the emanation .
Since in these circumstances we have , besides the emanation , also radium A and radium B at the bottom of the tube , the conditions are somewhat complicated .
It was seen from the nature of the decay curves of the activity collected on the disc , that not only radium A but also radium B was projected on to the disc .
It is , however , not very easy to say whether there was any radiation of radium C. It seemed , therefore , desirable to make experiments with simpler conditions to directly demonstrate the radiation of radium B and also of radium C , if this latter should exist .
To do this , observations were made with the active deposit on a plate which had been exposed as the negative electrode to the emanation in an electric field .
When this plate wras suspended in a vacuum , no radium A could be projected from it unless , as was generally the case , a trace of emanation remained adhering to the plate .
Neglecting , for the moment , this disturbing factor in the experiment , a disc exposed above the active plate should become active on account of the projection of radium B on to it as the radium A on the plate decays .
If , however , sufficient time be allowed for the radium A to disappear before exposing the disc , no radium B can be projected up the tube ; but in this case there still remains the possibility of radium C being projected up the tube as radium B decays .
Working-in this way we thus have the possibility of investigating the phenomena in their simplest form .
The apparatus used is shown in fig. 6 .
The plate D , which had been exposed to a considerable quantity of radium emanation for a definite time , was suspended by a small hook from the end of the wire w , the other end of which was sealed through the ground glass stopper S of the glass Fig. 6 .
220 Messrs. Russ and Makower .
The Expulsion of [ Mar. 18 , vessel V of diameter 0'7 cm .
Attached to the wire w , and at a distance of about 1 cm .
above the plate D , was a disc E. By inserting the stopper S the plate and disc were brought into the position shown in the figure .
By means of a bull ) containing cocoanut charcoal immersed in liquid air and connected to the vessel Y by a side tube , the vessel could be rapidly exhausted to as high a vacuum as desired .
After a suitable exposure of the disc E to the radiation from D , air was admitted to the apparatus .
The disc E was then detached from the wire and its a-ray activity tested by a quadrant electrometer , care being taken to prevent the disc and plate touching during their removal from the vessel .
Before proceeding to an account of the results obtained in these experiments it is of importance to consider the phenomena which would be expected on certain simple assumptions .
Consider the case in which the plate P has been exposed to the emanation so that it has deposited on its surface radium A , together with radium B and radium C in certain definite proportions depending on the time of exposure to the emanation .
The disc E will receive a certain percentage of the radium B particles which are produced as the radium A on the plate P decays .
If we assume that the radium C particles are not projected from the small quantity of radium B , initially on the plate P , then the activity of the disc E at any time after removal may be calculated by a simple extension of well-known equations.* This has been done for the case of an exposure of five minutes of the disc E to the radiation from the plate P , and the theoretical curve plotted in fig. 7 , curve I. The observations now to be described were made to see how nearly the experimental results obtained under different conditions agree with this theoretical curve .
In the first series of observations the plate P was exposed to the emanation for 10 minutes , then removed and placed in a vessel which could be quickly evacuated to remove any emanation adhering to the disc .
Although it was not found possible to completely remove the emanation in this way , the amount left on the disc after this treatment was greatly reduced .
Within a minute and a half of withdrawing the plate from the vessel in which it was exposed to the emanation , it was fixed in position below the disc E as shown in fig. 6 .
The vessel V was quickly evacuated as completely as possible , and the disc E then exposed to the radiation from P for five minutes .
The disc E was then removed , and the side which had been facing P found to be strongly radio-active ; its activity was tested during the next hour and a quarter .
* See Rutherford , ' Radio-activity , ' p. 332 .
1909 .
] Radio-active Matter in Radium Transformations .
221 The side turned away from D was only slightly active as a result of a trace of emanation adhering to the plate D which escaped during the exposure of the disc E. In subsequent measurements allowance was made for this slight activity which must also have reached the front of the disc E. The results obtained are shown in curve II , fig. 7 .
It will be noticed that the activity of the disc as measured by the a-radiation coming from it increased for the first half hour and then fell off with time .
This is what would be expected if radium B had been projected on to the disc E from the T/ ME / /V / V Fig. 7 .
plate D during the five minutes ' exposure ; but it will be noticed that the .curve II falls considerably below the theoretical curve I. Now the plate D during the previous exposure of 10 minutes to the emanation will have had deposited on its surface not only radium A but a certain amount of radium B. If , during the decay of this radium B , some radium C is projected on to the disc E , the curve giving the activity at times subsequent to its removal from the radiation will fall below the theoretical curve I. This has been seen to be the case and it thus appears likely that in the experiment just described radium C as well as radium B was radiated from the plate .
This was a somewhat unexpected result , for unless a-particles are emitted in the transformation of radium B into radium C , this result could only be 222 Messrs. Russ and Makower .
Expulsion of [ Mar. 18 , explained by supposing that the radium C was projected from the plate by recoiling when a / 3-particle was emitted .
It was therefore necessary to test the point more fully before this explanation could be accepted as correct .
A similar experiment to that just described was therefore made in which , the plate D was exposed to the emanation for nearly three hours instead of 10 minutes .
In these circumstances the quantity ot ' radium B on the plate-relative to the quantity of radium A was greatly increased and the activity curve subsequently obtained with the disc E should fall even further below the theoretical curve than curve II .
This is seen to be the case from curve III , fig. 7 .
Although these experiments leave little doubt that radium C is projected !
through a vacuum from a plate on which radium B is deposited , it seemed ; desirable to get more direct evidence on this point .
The plate D was .
therefore again exposed to the emanation for about two hours and a half , and was then removed from the emanation and kept in a vacuum for 19 minutes , to get rid of emanation adhering to it .
During this time practically all the radium A on the plate had decayed .
The plate D was then placed in position under the disc E and the vessel evacuated .
This disc E was removed 50 minutes later and tested during the next hour .
It was found to have deposited on it pure radium C , for in this case the activity at once diminished exponentially with time , falling to half value in 19 minutes ( fig. 8 , and Table VII ) .
We thus see that a plate exposed in a vacuum to another one upon which there is only radium B and radium C becojnes coated on the side facing the first plate with a deposit of pure radium C. This can only happen by the projection of the atoms of radium C on to the plate as radium B disintegrates .
No doubt radium D is also projected on to the second plate , but its rate of decay is in any case too slow to affect the observations .
Since the recoil of radium C when produced from radium B is due to the emission of an electron instead of an a-particle , as is the case with , radium A and radium B , we should expect that the velocity with which an .
atom of radium C is projected through a vacuum would be very much less than that of either radium A or radium B. The power of the atom of radium C to penetrate matter should therefore be correspondingly less than was found for radium A and radium B. A few experiments have been made to test this point .
The disc D , with radium B and radium C deposited on it , was situated as in the previous experiments 1 cm .
below the disc E , which was therefore subjected to the bombardment of the radium C proceeding from the plate D. Instead of working in as high a vacuum as could be obtained , some air was left between the plate D and E. In this way part of 1909 .
] Radio-active Matter in Radium Transformations .
223 4 ; he radiation from the plate D was cut oft and the plate D became less .active than in a perfect vacuum .
When there was air at a pressure of .0'14 mm. of mercury between the two plates at a distance of 1 cm .
apart , .the radiation was cut down to about one-tenth .
Other observations were jnade at different pressures , but the law of absorption has as yet not been .determined with any precision .
Dme / /v M/ /votes Fig. 8 .
Table VII .
Time in minutes after removal .
Activity .
Logarithm of activity .
Time in minutes after removal .
Activity .
Logarithm of .
activity .
1 90 -5 1 1 -957 19 45 *3 1 *656 2 88 *6 1 -947 21 43 *8 1 -642 3 85 *6 1 -932 23 40 -4 1 *606 4 81 -0 1 -908 28 33 *5 1 -525 5 77 3 1 -888 30 30 *9 1 *490 6 74 -5 1 872 32 30 -1 1 -479 7 74 *2 1 -870 34 28 -2 1 *450 9J 64*8 1 -812 36 28 *0 1 *447 11 63 -9 1-806 39 24 *6 1 *391 12 60*1 1 -779 40 23 *2 1 *366 13 57 *7 1 -761 42 21 *4 1 *330 14 57 1 1 *757 46 19-2 1 -283 15 54 -6 1 -737 49 17 -8 1 *250 18 47 -8 i 1 *679 51 15 -7 1 *196 1 Prof. H. A. Wilson .
[ Mar. 5 Summary .
The principal results obtained in this paper may be summarised as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) When radium emanation , in radio-active equilibrium with its products of disintegration , is condensed at the bottom of an evacuated tube immersed in liquid air , active deposit particles are radiated up the tube .
This phenomenon is ascribed to the recoil of the residual atom when an a-particle is emitted .
( 2 ) The law of absorption of this radiation both in air and hydrogen has been investigated .
The radiation reaching a surface at a fixed distance from the condensed emanation is an exponential function of the gas pressure .
( 3 ) From the rate of decay of the activity collected on a surface exposed to the radiation from the emanation , it appears that both radium A and radium B reach the surface .
( 4 ) Radium B and radium C are both radiated through a vacuum from a surface previously rendered active by exposure to the emanation .
Supposing that radium B emits only / 3-particles , 4he radiation of radium C must be due to the recoil of the atoms when / 3-particles are emitted .
The work has been greatly facilitated by the kindness of Prof. Rutherford in supplying us with the emanation necessary for these experiments .
We take this opportunity of expressing our thanks to him .
An Attempt to detect some Electro-optical Effects .
By Prof. Harold A. Wilson , F.R.S. , King 's College , London .
( Received March 5 , \#151 ; Read March 18 , 1909 .
) The following paper contains a description of some experiments made with the object of detecting possible effects due to electric and magnetic fields and moving matter on the velocity of propagation of light in glass .
The results obtained were negative , but it seems worth while to publish a short account of the experiments .
The optical part of the apparatus is a simple form of interferometer which proved very easy and convenient to work with .
It consists of a square glass frame made up of glass bars of square cross-section cemented together with Canada balsam .
Three of the corners are cut off at 45 ' , as shown in the figure , and the fourth corner contains a half silvered surface FF .
Light entering in the direction of the arrow A is divided into two beams by the silver film , which pass round the frame in opposite directions , being totally reflected at the cut-off corners .
Half of each beam emerges in the direction of the arrow B , and the two beams at B are in a condition to interfere with each other .

