On the Motions of the Tendrils of Plants .
By Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read May 4 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 314 .
] Some naturalists have supposed tendrils to be endued with some degree of perception , to which their propensity to approach neigh:bouring objects may be ascribed ; and though others who have written on the same subject may have rejected this hypothesis , it does not appear to Mr. Knight that any direct experiments have been made similar to those which he here describes , for the purpose of ascertaining whether these motions may not be ascribed to peculiarity of organization , aided by the operation of external causes .
The plants selected for his experiments were , the Virginia Creeper , the Ivy , the Vine , and the Pea .
When a young plant of the creeper , trained directly upwards , was placed alone in the centre of a forcinghouse , its tendrils were all turned towards the north wall ; but as this was out of their reach , they declined gradually , and ultimately fixed themselves on the upright stem beneath and .
upon its support .
When other plants were placed near the glass , their tendrils were always directed from the light , as in the former instance , although no object was within their reach on the dark side .
Mr. Knight next tried the effect of placing near them a piece of dark paper ; to this they appeared to be strongly attracted , and when the paper was removed to a new position , the tendrils were found to follow it .
When a piece of glass was substituted for the paper , the tendrils showed no disposition to approach it ; but , on the contrary , when it was placed so as to reflect the light of the sun upon the tendrils , they appeared to be strongly repelled by it .
In making corresponding experiments on the ivy , Mr. Knight found.the same propensity in its claspers to recede from the light ; but it was necessary to place substances much nearer than in the former experiments for them to manifest any appearance of spontaneous motion .
When a young plant of the vine was placed under the same circumstances as the creeper , its tendrils manifested the same tendency to recede from the light .
When first emitted , they pointed upwards ; but the angle gradually increased , and ultimately they pointed directly downwards when no object was within their reach to which they could attach themselves .
The ultimate direction was in all instances towards the darkness of the ground , whether the plants were trained upwards , horizontally , or downwards .
There was , however , this difference observable between the tendrils of the vine and those of the Virginia creeper : those of the vine could be made to return to any position which they had quitted , by changing the direction of the light ; but those of the creeper never returned to a situation from which they had once receded ; as the tendrils of the vine are , moreover , separated into two divisions , they do not often fail of coming into contact with adjacent objects ; and the effect of contact is almost immediately visible .
They bend more firmly toward the body , and attach themselves by twining round it .
The organization of the tendril , by which it is adapted to perform these motions , appears to the author very similar to that of the young succulent shoot .
It is abundantly provided with vessels ; and it seems not improbable that a very considerable quantity of the moving fluid of the plant passes through them , and that there is a close connexion.between their vascular structure and their motion , as appears more especially in the act of grasping an object .
The external pressure of the body on one side will probably impede the motion of the fluids on that side of the tendril , and occasion greater extension of the opposite side in giving passage to a greater proportion of sap .
In conformity to this explanation , it is observed , that the sides of the tendrils that are in contact with the substance embraced are visibly compressed and flattened .

