]\gt ; Nitrates in Aqueous Sotution by the Act , ion of Sunlight .
159 of light is that in which the synthesis of formaldehyde and carbohydrate is pffected in the green leaf , by that action of light upon water and carbon dioxide in which the light-energy is converted into chemical energy and etored up .
It has been shown by Moore and Webster ( 1 ) that the first step , namely , that of formaldehyde formation , in which the greatest upbuilding of molecules with large rage of chemical energy occurs , can be effected by certain catalysts , such as the ferric and uranium salts in colloidal solution in water , when these are supplied with light-energy .
Later , it was shown by Moore ( 2 ) that such inorganic catalysts are present in the chloroplasts of green cells .
If it be agreed that life at some period first arose on this or some other planet by a process of evolution from simpler constituents , it is clear that there must have arisen along the path of evolution some combination or mechanism for forming more complex molecules containing the elements carbon , , oxygen and nitrogen , from simpler inorganic substaI ) with a less content of energy .
Otherwise , the substratum from which the living organism was to be built could not exist , and there would have , been no store of existent chemical energy to act as nutriment for the simplest living organism and supply the essential energy for the acts of life .
The assumption that the green cell , with its complex structure and exceedingly highly organised chemical substances , such as the chlorophylls , formed at the dawn of life the first engine capable of light-energy and producing a gain of chemical energy is entirely untenable , and would make a break in the continuity of inorga1lic and anic evolution , such as nowhere else is to be found .
It hence becomes of great importance to study fully the action of light upon those inorganic substances which are present in air and water , and might be presumed , from their nature and present position as nutrients of organisms , to have been capable of being acted upon by light with inductance of endothermic chemical reactions , and formation of more complex compounds of organic character .
Our knowledge of the first steps in the assimilation of both carbon and nitrogen so as to take their part in the organic compounds is still very incomplete , but that regarding nitrogen assimilation is much the more fragmentary of the two .
It is true that the living cell can by linkage of reactions utilise the energy stored up in the form of carbohydrates , to induce endothermic reactions and build up fats and proteins .
As has been pointed out by Moore ( 3 ) , a certain amount of carbohydrates can be oxidised , and the energy so set free within Nitrates in Aqueous Solution by the Action of Sunlight .
161 this point , whether the starting point be nitrous oxide or nitrogen pentoxide .
The amounts of heat involved and differences in transition from one oxide to another are shown succinctly in the following Table abstracted from , in which the numbers in the upper row represent thousands of gramme-calories for a gramme-molecular formation from the elements ; and the lower shows in thousands of gramme-calories the heats of transition one oxide to the other:\mdash ; This Table shows that in passage from to , a supply of energy must be given to the reacting system amounting to thousands of gramme-calories for each gramme-molecule converted .
The figures are for the gaseous condition , but it may be taken that they would be approxi- mately the same for dilute solutions , and so that the amount of energy for the passage of gramme molecule of a nitrate to a nitrite ( say , from to would be about half this amount or about 10,000 for 1 of nitrogen pentoxide yields two of nitrate , which is converted into two of nitrite .
Ihese figures show clearly that the transition from nitrate to nitrite is a strongly endothermic reaction , and can only occur either by transformation of other forms of energy , such as that of light , into chemical energy , or by a linked chemical reaction with oxidation of previously formed reduced chemical substances .
Not only do the nitrites contain a greater storage of chemical than the nitrates , the energy potential factor of the energy quantity possesses a higher value , so that the nitrites react more readily than the nitrates , and many changes occur between living organisms and nitrites which are not given directly by nitrates .
The experiments recorded below show that this endothermic reaction occurs in sunlight when dilute solutions of nitrates are exposed to the direct rays of the sun , either dissolved in redistilled water or as they occur in natural waters .
In addition , it has been found that green leaves immersed in water possess , in presence of sunlight , the power of absorbing the nitrites so formed in the water .
In the earlier stages of the investigation the source of the nitrites obtained was not clearly understood .
The outset point was that the nitrites and nitrates found to be present in atmospheric air by many previous observers could not be satisfactorily explained on the basis of the disruptive electrical discharges of thunderstorms , because there has not been traced any definite Nitrates in Aqueous Solution by the Action ofSunlight .
163 suspected of containing nitrites ( 8 ) .
This is given only by nitrites , and not by either ozone or hydrogen peroxide .
Ilosvay 6 ) by the use of this test showed that the well-known reaction upon a paper impregnated with starch and potassium iodide often used to show the supposed presence of ozone in the phere was really produced by nitrites , and demonstrated that at the earth 's surface both ozone and hydrogen peroxide were normally absent .
The same observer ( 5 ) found a strong reaction for nitrites in the morning dew on various leaves and grasses , and also adsorbed upon ignited sand and upon earth exposed wet to the atmosphere , and in water in absorption tubes through which air was drawn .
This test will clearly indicate , by the development of a pink colour , the presence of nitrites in a dilution of one in ten million .
The test , when applied to the solutions exposed to sunlight , as described below , gave reactions indicating amounts of nitrite lying between two in a million and one in ten million .
These concentrations may appear at first sight infinitesimally low , but attention must be paid to the enormous areas in green leaves over the earth 's surface which are exposed to the reaction .
The strengths of solutions from which living organisms absorb essential constituents from their environments often belong to this order of concentration .
The concentration of silicic acid in pond water , from which diatoms build up their siliceous skeletons , is of the same order of magnitude .
A similar condition of affairs emerges if the assimilation of carbon compounds is considered , for all such assimilation depends on a concentration of only three parts by volum of carbon dioxide in 10,000 of atmospheric air .
The concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere of 3 parts in 10,000 by volume , small as it may appear to support all life upon the earth , looks at first sight enormous , compared to the concentrations at which silica is absorbed in plants , or to the concentrations of nitrites with which we are dealing in the present experiments ; but this arises entirely from the usual conventional mode of expression of the concentration in relative gaseous volumes in atmosphere .
If the mass of carbon dioxide dissolved in water be expressed in relationship to the mass of water , the ratio drops to the same order of magnitude as obtains in the case of other essential constituents demanded for organic life , all of which , it must be remembered , including carbon , are synthesised from solutions and not in gaseous form .
Thus , the absorption-coefficient of carbon dioxide between a system of air and water may be taken sufficiently accurately for these purposes as equivalent to unity , so that if an atmosphere containing 3 parts in 10,000 of carbon dioxide , be brought into 164 Prof. B. Moore .
The Formation of Nitrites from equilibrium with water , the aqueous solution will contain three volumes of gaseous carbon dioxide in 10,000 volumes of water .
That is , in 10 litres of water there will be dissolved 3 c.c. of carbon dioxide .
Now , since 44 of carbon dioxide gas measure at normal temperature and pressure 22,000 , this means that 3 .
of carbon dioxide weigh approximately 6 mgrm .
; 6 mgrm .
of carbon dioxide in 10 litres , therefore , represents a concentration of 6 parts in 10,000,000 parts of water .
It is the carbon in the carbon dioxide which is utilised in formation of the organic carbon compounds of the plant , and this stands to carbon dioxide in the relationship of 12 to 44 , so that the concentration of assimilable carbon becomes reduced to about 1 part by weight in 6,000,000 parts of water .
So Jar as assimilation is , the amount of nitrogen required by plants is not on the average more than about 5 per cent. of the required carbon assimilation , so that , other factors , such as coefficients of distribution between air and water , being taken as equal , a concentration of nitrites or nitrates in the atmosphere or cell-sap about equivalent to 1 part of nitrogen in 120,000,000 parts of water ought to supply sufficient for assimi- lative purposes .
In a series of twenty experiments it was shown that both rain and dew invariably contain nitl.ites , but these slowly diminish , so that water drawn from a reservoir by a service tap gives a quite negative result when tested by the diazo-reaction for nitrites .
If , however , an there portion of this same sample of water be exposed , either in the open or within a transparent quartz container , to sunlight or an artificial source light rich in wavelemgths , one or two hours a strong reaction is given for nitrites .
In this manner , by testing water before and after exposure , the presence and relative amounts of nitrite and nitrate may be determined .
Similar changes , only greatly diminished quantitatively , are obtained when the exposures are made in glass vessels , showing that it is the ultra-violet waves which are most potent .
That this result is due to conversion of nitrates into nitrites , * At the time the experiments on the action of rays from the quartz mercury arc light upon nitrates were made it was thought they were original , but since the paper was written two references have been discovered to experiments made by observers in France , who have approached the subject from quite a different standpoint .
The first observer , M. Lombard , 'Comptes Rendus Acad. des Sciences , ' vol. 160 , p. 227 1910 ) , found that when tap-water or dilute solutions of nitrates were exposed to this source of light ites were formed .
This was later confirmed by D. Berthelot and H. Gaudechon , ' Comptes Rendus Acad. des Sciences , ' vol. 152 , p. 522 1911 ) , but neither communication speaks of the importance in nature of this change , or shows it occurs with ight , or draws attention to the occurrence in green leaves , and the activation thereby produced .
Attention is mainly directed to the cause of the sterilisation of water by exposure to ultra-violet light .
in Aqueous Solution by the Action of Sunlight .
165 and not conversion of dissolved nitrogen and oxygen , is shown by the fact that it does not occur with distilled water holding air in solution ; but if a small amount of potassium nitrate , say , one part by weight in 10,000 parts , be added , an intense reaction occurs on insolation .
In several experiments it was shown that the presence of green leaves from different types of plants diminished the amount of nitrites present after exposure , as contrasted with control flasks alongside containing no green leaves .
It is clear from these experiments that nitrates taken up by the rootlets of plants from the soil can be converted into the more reactive nitrites in the green leaf with absorption of solar energy ; simultaneousJy , .non-nitrogenous organic bodies are being built up in the same situation , which suggests that by interaction under the influence of light protein synthesis as well as carbohydrate may occur in the green leaf .
The presence of nitrites and nitrates in rain and dew indicates their occurrence in atmospheric air , and this was ultimately proven in a series of experiments which showed that the main portion of the oxidised nitrogen from air is found in water , after bubbling air through it , as nitrate and not as nitrite .
Great care is required in order to give a orous proof of this , because the condition of the absorbed substances from the air may be modified in the act of collection if light be not carefully excluded , and nitrate from the air be changed by insolation into nitrite .
This fact first emerged from a series of experiments intended to study the relative amounts of nitrite in air by day and by night , when apparently the interesting result was obtained that there was practically no nitrite in night air , but a considerable amount in day air .
Just then the effect of light in converting nitrates into nitrites was learnt , and a repetition of the experiment was made , using a blackened bottle with distilled water as absorbent .
This distilled water had been twice distilled , and was so free from nitrate that it gave no Griess-Ilosvay reaction even after prolonged exposure to ultra-violet light .
The result now obtained was that , whether the air were bubbled through by day or by night , only a very slight reaction for nitrites was obtained ; but , on now to sunlight this distilled water through which air had been bubbled in darkness , whether by day or by night , a strong reaction was obtained in each case , showing that oxidised nitrogen is present always in air both by day and by night .
It is possible to conclude that the relative amounts of nitrate and nitrite in bubbled air give an indication of the relative amounts of the two oxides of nitrogen in the air ; for if the absorption be attempted in the presence of light there will be a reduction to nitrite , and if in darkness , the great volume of oxygen simultaneously bubbled through may have oxidised Nitrates in Aqueous Solution by the Action of Sunlight .
167 There is no hydrogen peroxide or ozone in air at surface level .
The fresh odour in open air , commonly referred to as " " ozone is probably nitrogen peroxide , which at high dilutions has the odour of ozone .
The oxides of nitrogen are probably formed by the action of sunlight , rich in ultra-violet rays , in upper regions of the atmosphere air and aqueous vapour .
Attention is drawn to the importance of these actions of light in purification of air and water , and enrichment of soils and waters by this continuous ' supply of matter essential to organic , the energy of which , like that for upbuilding of non-nitrogenous organic compounds , comes from sunlight .
REFERENCES .
( 1 ) and Webster , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc B , vol. , p. 163 ( 1913 ) .
i ( 2 ) Moore , ibid. , 1914 , p. ( 3 ) Moore , ' Recent Advances Physiology and Bio-chemistry , ' edited by Leonard Hill , p. 29 , et seq. , and p. 131 .
Arnold , London , 1906 .
( 4 ) Mendeleeff , 'Principles of Chemistry , ' translated by Kemensky and Pope , vol. 1 , p. 287 .
Longmans , London , 1905 .
( 5 ) Ilosvay , 'Bull .
Soc. Chim .
' [ 3 ] , vol. 2 , p. 666 .
( 6 ) Ilosvay , ' Ann. Chem. Pharm vol. 124 , p. 1 ; vol. 186 , p. 2 .
( 7 ) Hayhurst and Pring , ' Chem. Soc. Trans vol. 97 , Pt. I , p. 868 1910 ) ; Pring , ' Roy .
Boc .
Proc A , vol. 90 , p. 204 ( 1910 ) , and Strutt , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc A , vol. 94 , p. 260 ( 1918 ) .
( 8 ) Sutton 's ' Volumetric Analysis , ' 10th edition , p. 4i0 .
Churchill , London , 1911 .

