Observations of a Comet , with Remarks on the Construction of its different Parts .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read December 19 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 115 .
] The author first gives us , in detail , the succession of appearances that he has observed respecting this comet and its various parts , consisting of a planetary body , perceptible only by the best telescopes , in the luminous spherical head , which to the naked eye appears as a nucleus .
The head is surrounded by an envelope that is hemispherical on the side towards the sun , but extends in an opposite direction in the form of a very long cone of light , called the tail of the comet .
The planetary body was at no time perceptibly otherwise than circular .
Its apparent magnitude was about three quarters of a second , and its real diameter is estimated at 428 miles .
The position of this body never appeared to be in the centre of the head , but to be more or less eccentric at different periods of observation , but always more remote than the centre from the sun .
Nevertheless , the greatest illumination of the surrounding head is represented by Dr. Herschel as greatest in the centre , and in its decrease from thence to be somewhat brighter on the side toward the sun than at the part occupied by the planetary body .
The apparent magnitude of the head was found to measure 33 minutes ; so that its real magnitude is estimated to have been 127,000 miles .
Between the head and the surrounding envelope there was a space comparatively dark , which Dr. Herschel imagines to be filled with an elastic atmosphere , and estimates its actual extent to be at least 507,000 miles , since its apparent diameter was nearly 15 minutes of a degree .
The train of light , to which Dr. Herschel gives the name of envelope , from its surrounding the head on one side in a semicircular form , was found to measure 19 minutes of a degree in diameter , and was thence inferred to be 643,000 miles in real extent .
The two extremities of this curve being continued beyond the head in two streams of light , rather divergent from each other , form the appearance which is called the tail .
The distance to which this appears to reach from the head varied on different nights , according to the state of the atmosphere , as well as from other circumstances which affected its actual length .
The greatest length observed by Dr. Herschel was on the 6th of October , when he measured it 25 ?
; but he thinks the measure of 23Po , taken on the 15th of October , more to be depended upon ; and he thence computes the actual length to have been at that time 100,000,000 of miles .
With respect to the curvature of the tail , Dr. Herschel remarks , that it varied not only in degree , but in direction ; for on the 2nd of December he observed that it appeared convex on the following side , as if the extremity of the tail preceded the head instead of being left behind .
The author also notices many other irregular appearances of the tail , the branches on each side occasionally dividing into two or three parts , and sometimes one branch , sometimes the other , seemed longest .
From the appearances observed , Dr. Herschel next infers what is the real construction of the various parts .
And , first , the planetary body seems to be spherical , as might be expected from the common laws of gravitation , and to shine by light of its own ; for if it were not so , it must have appeared to change its figure in moving as it did through more than a quadrant while it remained visible .
The head also must , for the same reason , be spherical : and so likewise that portion of the envelope which is on the side towards the sun 2 E must be hemispherical ; for if it were merely a band of light , all in the same plane , its phases must have varied like the ring of Saturn .
This cap must also be comparatively thin , since the parts at a distance from its edge , which were therefore seen transversely , appeared dark in comparison to the circumference , where a greater quantity of luminous matter was seen by oblique vision .
And it is to the same cause that the comparative brightness of the edges of the tail is ascribed by Dr. Herschel .
With respect to the production of some of the cometic phenomena , the author conjectures , that the light is of a phosphoric nature ; that the luminous matter of the head , being expanded on one side by the action of the sun , occupies more space , and consequently occasions the planetary body to appear eccentric ; that part of this matter , being greatly rarefied , ascends in the cometic atmosphere till it occupies the surface of that medium on the side towards the sun , and forms the hemispherical part of the envelope .
He next supposes a further attenuation and a decomposition of this matter , till its particles are sufficiently minute to receive a slow motion from the impulse of the solar beams , and consequently gradually to recede in a direction towards the region of the fixed stars , to the distance of 100,000,000 miles .
From the escape of such a quantity of light , and probably of other subtle elastic matters , in consequence of the comet 's near approach to the sun , Dr. Herschel infers that a greater consolidation of the remaining solid matter of the comet takes place at the time of its perihelion passage .
He further thinks it not unlikely that the matter they contain is derived from nebulae , which they meet with in the extensive orbits they describe ; that in their course they visit other suns beside our own ; and at each successive approach to these various centres they undergo progressive condensation ; from which we may conceive how other planetary bodies may begin to have existence .

