]\gt ; Mr. O. Heaviside .
On the ransformation of [ Jan. 18 , moisture , or condensed gases , or to combinations of these causes .
And it affords an explanation of the details of reflection , which is rigid , and at least as good as the representation given by the empirical formulae of Cauchy , even as moditied by Quincke .
VI .
" " On the Transformation of Optical Wave-Surfaces by Homogerleous Strain By OLIVER AVISIDE , F.R.S. Received December 20 , 1893 .
Simplex Eolotropy .
1 .
All explanations of double refraction ( proximate , not uItimate ) rest upon the hypothesis that the medium in which it occurs is so structured as to impart eolotropy to one of the two properties , associated with and kinetic energy , with which the ether is endowed in order to account for the transmission of waves through it in the simplest manner .
It may be elastic eolotropy , or it may be something equivalent to eolotropy as regards the density .
In Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory the two properties are hose co11necting the electric with the displacement , and the magnetic force with the induction , say the permittivity and the inductivity , or and These are , in the simplest case , constants corresponding to isotropy .
The existence of eolotropy as regal'ds either of them will cause double refraction .
Then either or is a symmetrical linear operator , or dyadic , as Willard Gibbs calls it .
In either case the optical wavesurface is of the Fresnel type .
In either case the fluxes displacement and induction are perpendicular to one another in a wave-front , whilst the electric and magnetic forces are also perpendicular to one another .
But it is the netic force that is in the -front , coincident with the induction , in case of magnetic isotropy and electric eolotropy , the electric for bein then out of the wave-front , though in the plane of the normal and the displacement .
And in the other extrems case of electric isotropy and magnetic eoIotropy , the eIectric force is in the wavefront , coincident with the displacement , whilst the magnetic force is out of the wave-front , though in the plane of the normal and the induction .
Now , as a matter of fact , crystals may be strongly eolotropic electrically , whilst their magnetic eolotropy , if existent , is insignificant .
This , of , justifies 's ascription of double refraction to electric eolotropy .
Properties connected uith Duplex iEolotropy .
2 .
When duplex eoIotropy , electric and magnetic , is admitted , we obtain a more general kind of wave-surface , including the former two 1894 .
] Wave-Surfaces by Homogeneous Strain .
as extreme cases .
It is almost a pity that magnetic eolotropy shouJd be insensible , because the investigation of the conditions ulating plane waves in media possessing duplex eolotropy , and the wavesurface associated therewith , possesses many points of interest .
The chief attraction lies in the perfectly symmetrical manner in which the subject may bs displayed , as regards the two eolotropies .
This brings out clearly properties which are not easily visible in the case of simplex eolotropy , when there is a ome-sided and imperfect development of the analysis concerned .
In general , the fluxes displacement and induction , although in the wave-front , are not coperpendicular .
Corresponding to this , the two forces electric and magnetic , which are always in the plane perpendicular to the ray , or the flux of energy , are not coperpendicular .
Nor are the positions of the fluxes in the wave-front conditioned by the eflective components in that plane of the forces being made to coincide with the fluxes .
There are two waves with a given normal , and it would be impossible to satisfy this requirement for both .
But there is a sort of balance of skewness , inasmuch as the positions of the fluxes in the wave-front are such that the angle through which the plane containing the normal and the displacement ( in either wave ) must be turned , round the normal as axis , to reach the electric force , is equal ( though in the opposite sense ) to the angle through which the plane containing the normal and the induction must be turned to reach the magnetic force .
These are merely rudimentary properbies .
I have investigated the wave-surface and associated ters in my paper " " On the Electromagnetic urface \ldquo ; Phil. Mag June , 1885 ; or 'Electrical Papers , ' vol. 2 , p. 1 ) .
Effects of sfraining a Duplex Wave-surface .
3 .
The connexion between the simplex and duplex types of wave- surface ] been interestingly illustrated lately by Dr. J. in his paper " " On the Singularities of the Optical Wave-surface , \ldquo ; ( ' Proc. London Math. Soc vol. 24 , 1893 ) .
He points out , inci- dentally , that a simplex wave-surface , when subjected to a particular sort of homogeneous strain , becomes a plex wave-surface of kind .
To more precisely state the connexion , let bc electric eolotropy , say , with magnetic isotropy .
Then , if the strain operator , applied to the simplex wave-SUl'face , be homologous with , given by constant , the result is to turn ib into duplex wave-surface whose eolotropies are also homologous with the original ; that is to say , the principal axes are parallel .
This duplex wave-surface is , of course , of a specially simplified kind , not the simplest .
That occurs when the two eolotropies are not merely homologous , but are in constant ratio .
The wave-surface then reduces to a single ellipsoid .
Mr. O. Qide .
On the Transforma of [ Jan. 18 , Conversely , therefore , if we start with the duplex wave-surface COl'responding to homologous permittivity and inductivity , and homo- geneously strain it , the strainer being proportional to , we converf it a simplex wave-surface whose one eolotropy is homologous with the former two .
Remembering that the equation of the duplex wave-surfaoe is symnletrical with respect to the two opies , so that they may be interchanged without altering the urface , it struck me on reading Dr. Larmor 's rsmarks that a similar reduction to a simplex wavesurface could be effected by a tiollal to .
This was verified on examination , and some more general transformations presented themselves .
The results are briefly these:\mdash ; Any dnplex wave-surface ( irrespective of homology of eolotropies ) , when subjected to homogeneous ( not necessarily pure ) , usually remains a duplex wave-surface .
That is , the transformed surface is of the same type , though with different inductivity and permittivity operators .
But in special cases it becomes a simplex -surface .
In one way the strainer is , where the square brackets indicate the determinant of the enclosed operator .
In another the strainer is .
These indicate the strain operator to be applied to the vector of the old surface to produoe that of the new ome .
Now , these simplex wave-surfaces may be strained anew to their reciprocals with respect to the unit sphere , or the corresponding index-surfaces , which are surfaces of the same type .
So we have at least four ways of straining any duplex wave-surface to a simplex one .
Furthermore , any duplex wave-surface may be homogeneously strained to its reciprocal , the corresponding index-surface , of the isame duplex type .
The strain is ptlre , but is complicated , as it in- volves both and .
The stra , iner is , divided by the determinant of the same .
This transformatio1l is practically the generalization for the duplex wave-surface of Plucker 's theorem reating to the ] surface , for that also involves straining the wave- to its reciprocal .
Instead of the single strain above mentioned , may employ three successive pure strains .
Thus , first strain the duplex wave-surface to a simplex surface .
Secondly , strain the latter to its Thirdly , strain the last to the reciprocal of the original duplex wavesurface .
There are at least two sets of three successive strains which effecI the desired transformation .
The investigation follows .
Forrns of the Index-and Wave-surface Equations , and tloe Properhes of Inversion and Interchangeabih .
tie .
of Operators .
4 .
Let the electric and magnetic forces be and , and the 1894 .
] Optical Wave-Surfaces by Homogeneous Strain .
3$ corresponding fluxes , the displacement and induction , be and then , ( 1 ) where is the permittivity and the inductivity , to be symmetrical linear operators in general .
We have also the circuital laws curl , -curl .
( 2 ) Now , if we assume the existence of a plane wave , whose unit normal is , propagated at speed without change of type , and apply these equations , we find that and are in the wave-front , and are out of it , and that there are two waves possible .
We are led directly to the velocity equation , a quadratic in , giving the two values of belonging to a given N. Next , if we put , then is the vector of the index-surface , and its equation is , ( 3 ) which are , of course , equivalent to the velocity equation ( ' El .
Pa vol. 2 , p. 11 , equatiorIs ( 41 ) ) .
Two forms ars given , for a reason that will appear later .
I employ the vector algebra and notation of the paper referred to , and others .
Sufficient to say here that and are the reciprocals of and ; and that means the scalar product of and ; for example , if referred to the principal axes of , ( 4 ) if be ths principal 's ( positive scalal .
S , to ensure positivity of iihe energy ) , and be the components of .
Also , denotes the determinaut*of , that is , The operators in the denominators of ( 3 ) may be treated , for our purpose , as linear operators themselves .
But it is their reciprocals that occur .
For example , the first form of ( 3 ) may be written , ( 5 ) asserting that the vectors and are perpendicular .
The expansion to Cartesian form may be done immediately if and are homologous , for then we may take the reference axes parallel to those of and , and at once produce *It occurs to me in reading tho proof that the use of to denote the determinant of , which is plainer to read in with other symbols than is in oonflict with the ordinary use of square brackets , as in ( 5 ) and some equations near the end .
But there will be no confusion on this account in the present paper .
VOL. Mr. O. Heaviside .
On the Transformation of [ Jan. 18 , , ( 6 ) is as in ( 4 ) , with written for .
Similarly as regards the second form of ( 3 ) .
When the operators are not homologous , the complication of the form of the constituents of the inverse operators makes the expansion less easy .
As regards the second form of ( 3 ) , it is obtained from the first form by interchanging and .
It epresents t same surface .
The transformation from one form to the other , if done by ordinary algebra , without the use of vectors and linear operators , is very troublesome in the general case .
But in the electromagnetic theory the equivalence can be seen to be true and predicted beforehand : FOT consider the circuital equations ( 2 ) .
If we eliminate , ws obtain -curl curl , ( 7 ) whilst if we eliminate , we obtain -curl curl .
( 8 ) These are the characteristic equations of and respectively in a dielectric with duplex eolotropy , and we see that they only differ in the interchange of and .
When , therefore , we apply one of them , say that of , to a plane wave to make the velocity equation , in which process is eliminated , we can see that a precisely similar investigation applies to the equation , provided and be interchanged .
So , if the equation leads to the first form in , the equation must lead to the second form .
They therefore represent the same surface .
The same property applies to any equation obtained from the equations with the electrical variables eIiminated , the equation of the wave-surface , for example .
If we have obtained one special form , a second is got by inlerchanging the eolotropies .
The index equation being what we are naturally led to from the characteristic equation , it is merely a matter of mathematical work to derive the corresponding wave-surface .
For is the reciprocal of the perpendicular upon the tangent plane to the wave-surface , so that if is the vector of the wave-surface ; and from the equation of and its connexion with , we may derive the equation of itself .
I have shown that the resuIt is expressed by simply inverting the operators in the index equation .
Thus , the equation of the wave-surface is 1894 .
] Optical Wave-Surfaces by Homogen ) ?
where , as , two forms are given .
Now , the final eqnivalence of this transition the index to wave-equation to mere inversion of the two eolotropic is such a simple result that one would think there should be a very ] way of exhibiting how the transition comes about .
Nevertheless , I am not aware of any simple investigation , and , in fact , found the bransition rather difficult , and by no means obvious at first .
I effected the transformation by taking advantage of symmetrical relations between the forces and fluxes ; in particular proving , first , that , or that the ray is perpendicular to the electric and magnetic forces , this with the analogous property , and constructing a process for from the former to the wave.equation analogous to that leading from the latter to the index equation .
It then goes easily .
However , we are not concerned with these details here .
A is necessary the interchangeability of and They should be fully operative as linear operators .
If one of them be a constant initially , and therefore all through , we may not then change them in the simplified equations which result .
For example , let be constant in ( 10 ) .
We have now .
( 11 ) The first form is what we are naturally led to by initial assumption of constancy of .
Now obsel.ve that the interchange of and in the secoud form gives us the first form , after a little reduction , remembering that is now .
But the same interchange in the first form does not produce the second , because it is more general .
So we have gained a elative simplicity of form at the cost of generality .
The extra complicatiou of the duplex wave-surface is accompanied by geueral analytical extensions which make the working operations more powerful .
The eqnivalence of the two forms in ( 11 ) may be by the use of Hamilton 's general cubic equation of a linear operator , as done in Tait 's work .
Though not difficulb to carry out , the operations are rather recondite .
On the other hand , the much more general equivalence ( 10 ) is , as we saw for the reason following ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) , obviously true .
This suggests that some other transformations the general cubic may be made plainer by generalizing it , employing a pair of linear operators .
Mr. O. Heaviside .
On the Transformation .
of [ Jan. 18 , eneral Transformation of Wave-surface by Homogeneous Strain .
5 .
Now apply a homogeneous strain to the wave-surface .
Let .
( 12 ) We need not ) that the strain is pure .
Use ( 12 ) in the first of ( 10 ) .
It becomes ( 13 ) Now the use of vectors and linear operators produces such a concise exhibition of the essentially significant properties , freed from the artificial elaboration of coordinates , that a practised worker may readily see his way to the following resuIts by mere inspection of equation ( 13 ) , or with little more .
I give , however , much of the detailed work that would then be done silently , believing that the spread of vector analysis is not encouraged by the quaternionist 's practice of leaving out too many of the steps .
In the first place , ( is the same as , if is the conjugate .
So ( 14 ) in the denominatol. .
Also , the first in ( 1.3 ) may be written and the postfactor may then be transferred to the denominator .
To do this , it must be inverted , of course , and then brought in as a postfactor .
Similarly , the in the numerator may be merged in the denominalor by inversion first , and then it in as a prefactor .
We may see why this is to be done by the elementary formula , ( 15 ) where are any linear operators .
So ( 13 ) becomes .
( 16 ) Now introduce some simplifications of form .
Let .
( 17 ) It follows from the second , and by ( 15 ) , that .
( 18 ) We also have .
( 19 ) 1894 .
] Optical Wave-Surfaces by Homogeneous Strain .
These three , ( 17 ) to ( 19 ) , reduce ( 16 ) to , ( 20 ) where the second form is got from the first by interchanging and which is permissible on account of the of and Comparing ( 20 ) with ( 10 ) , we see that there is identity of form .
Consequently ( 20 ) represents a duplex wave-surf whose operators are and , provided they are self-conjugate .
They are , for , by the elementary formula ( abc ) ' , ( 21 ) it follows that , ( 22 ) and simiIarly for the other one .
In case the strain is a pure rotation , we may take the form of ( following Gibbs ) as , ( 23 ) where is one , and I , another set of coperpendicular unit vectors .
For , obviously , this makes .
( 24 ) Special Cases of Reduction to Simplex Wave-surfa 6 .
Now take some special forms of .
We see , by inspection of ( 17 ) , that we can reduce either of or to a constant .
Thus , first , ( 2.5 ) Then ( 20 ) reduces to , ( 26 ) showing that the original duplex wave-surface is reduced to a simplex one involving eoIotropy , given by 25 ) .
Similarly , a second way is , ( 27 ) which reduces ( 20 ) to the simplex wave-surface , ( 28 ) involving the .
O. Heaviside .
On ihe Transformation of [ Jan. 18 , The new surfaces ( 26 ) , ( 28 ) may now be strained to their reciprocals .
Thus , take the first of ( 26 ) , and put .
( 29 ) This makes .
( 30 ) Here the initial and final may be removed to the denominator , and , since we also have , ( 31 ) we bring the first of to .
( 32 ) 1\mdash ; Now compare this with the second form of the same ( 26 ) .
They are identical , except that is now inverted .
Consequently ( 32 ) represents the index-surface corresponding to the wave-surface represented by the second of ( 26 ) , and therefore by the first , since they are the same .
In a similar manner the strain ( 29 ) applied to the second of ( 26 ) leads to the reciprocal of the first form .
In like manner the simplex surface ( 28 ) is strained to its reciprocal by .
( 33 ) Applied to the first form of ( 28 ) , we get the second form with inverted ; and , applied to the second form , we get the first , with inverted .
These inversions of simplex wave-surfaces by homogeneous strain are equivalent to Plucker 's theorem showing that the Fresnel wave-surface is its own reciprocal with respect to a certain ellipsoid Tait , ' Quaternions , ' 3rd Ed. , p. 342 ) .
Transformation from Duplex Wave- to Index-surface by a Pure Strain .
7 .
What is of greater interest here is the generalization of this pro- perty for the duplex wave-surface itseIf .
Take .
( 34 ) Then we obtain , ( 35 ) 1894 .
] Optical Wave-Surfaces by Homogeneous Strain .
the first of which is obvious , whilst in the second we make use of .
( 37 ) There are other ways in which this may be expressed , viz. , , ( 38 ) all of which lead to If this conjugate , and ( 35 ) , that its use in ( 20 ) brings us to .
( 40 ) That is , the strain converts the first of ( 10 ) to the first of ( 40 ) , and the second of ( 10 ) to the second of ( 40 ) .
But the first of ( 40 ) is the same as the second of ( 10 ) with and inverted , and the second of ( 40 ) is the same as the first of ( 10 ) with the same inversions .
In other words , the strain has converted the duplex wave-surface to its corresponding index-surface .
Observe that the crossing over from first to second form is an essential part of the demonstration , which is the reason I have employed two forms .
In full , the strainer to be applied to of the wave-surface to produce the vector of the index-surface ( or in ( 40 ) ) is .
( 41 ) But to complete the demonstration it should be shown that this strain is pure , becauso we have jusb assumed in equation to obtain ( 40 ) .
Now the purity of bhis strain is not obvious in the form ( 41 ) , nor in any of the similar forms in .
But we may change the expression for to such a form as will explicitly show its purity .
Tbus , we have identically , and this may be expanded to the right member reducing to the left by obvious canceflations .
Therefore by taking the square root .
So , { inally , .
( 42 ) Mr. O. .
On the Transforvnation of [ Jan. 18 , This is of the form , where is pure .
Its conjugate is therefore .
This reduces to itself if is pure .
But is pure , because it is also of the form , where and are both pure .
So our single strain depending on is pure .
Substitution of three successive Pure Strains for one .
Two ways .
8 .
This is dry mathematics .
But it is at once endowed with interest if we consider the meaning of the expression of the strain as eqnivalent to the three successive strains , and .
First , the strain ( 48 ) converts the duplex wave-surfacs to a simplex surface .
This was done before , equation ( 28 ) .
Next , the strain ( 44 ) converts the simplex alrface to another simplex surface whose vector is , and which is the index-surface corresponding to the wave-surface .
This strain ( 44 ) is , in fact , the same as ( 33 ) , and the resuIt is , ( 45 ) where .
Finally , the strain converts the simplex surface to a duplex surface , which is the reciprocal of the duplex wave-surface , the result being ( 40 ) .
The interchangeability of and shows that we may also strain from to by a second set of three successive pure strains , thus , .
( 47 ) This is the same as first straining the surface to the simplex surface ( 26 ) ; then inverting the latter , ] brings us to the simplex surface ( 32 ) ; and finally straining the last to the duplex surface Transformation of Characteristic iEquation by Strain .
9 .
In connexion with the above transformations , it may be worth while to show how they work out when applied to the characteristic equation itseIf of or H. Thus , take the form ( 7 ) , or 1894 .
] Optical Wave-Surfaces by Homogeneous Strain .
and let , ( 49 ) so that ( 48 ) becomes .
( 50 ) Now employ Hamilton 's formula ' ( 51 ) ( being here any self-coniugate operator .
Take , and we transform ( 50 ) to ( 52 ) In this use Hamilton 's formula again , with , and we obtain .
( 54 ) Or , more conveniently written , .
( 55 ) So far , is any pure strainer ; we can now make various specializations .
For example , to get rid of from the right side of 48 ) , and substitute .
Take , then which brings ( 55 ) to the form , ( 56 ) , ( 57 ) which should be compared with the other characteristic , that of which is ( 8 ) , or .
( 58 ) The above process is analogous to our transformation from the duplex wave-surface to its reciprocal .
As then , we have inversion of operators and also a crossing over from one form to another .
Derivation of Index Equation from Characteristic . .
We may also , in conclusion , exhibit how the index-surface arises from the characteristic , when done in terms of up to the last 42 On the Transformation of Optical Wave-Surfaces .
[ Jan. 18 , moment .
Start from the last equation .
Hamilton 's formula ( 51 ) makes it become .
( 59 ) The elementary formula in vector algebra , VaVbc ( ca ) \mdash ; ( 60 ) transforms ( 59 ) to ( 61 ) or , 62 from which .
( 63 ) So far we have merely a changed form of the characteristic .
But the induction is circuital .
Therefore , taking the divergence of ( 68 ) , we obtain , ( 64 ) or , which is the same , Here is the divergence of .
It is the same as Now only differs from the velocity equation ( for pJane waves ) in containing instead of the unit normal and instead of being the wave-velocity .
Thus , let ( z\mdash ; vt ) , then we shall have where , however , is specialized , being only or .
We therefore put for and for in equation ( 65 ) , thus making We may now cancel out all the 's except the last , making .
( 67 ) 1894 ] Presents .
Now throw away the operand , and we get the velocity equation pure and simple , and the index equation ( 3 ) then comes by But , although the above manipulation of the characteristic equation has some analytical interest , the process cannot be always recommended on the score of simplicity .
It is , on the , usually easier and simpler to work upon the component equations upon which the characteristic is founded .
Presents , Janu , 1894 .
Transactions .
Baltimore :Johns Hopkins University .
Circulars .
Vol. XIfI .
No. 108 . .
Baltimore 1893 ; Studies in Historical and Political Science .
Eleventh Series .
Nos. 11\mdash ; 13 .
1893 .
The University .
Medical and Chirurgical Faculty of the State of Maryland .
Transactions of the Ninety-fifth Annual Session .
Baltimore 1893 .
The Faculty .
Berkeley:\mdash ; University of California .
[ University Publications for the year 1892-93 .
] .
1892-93 .
The University .
\mdash ; Deutsche Chemische Gesellschaft .
Berichte .
1893 .
Nos. 9\mdash ; 18 . .
Berlin .
The Society .
Brussels :Acad Royale de Medecine .
] .
Tome VIII .
Nos. 5\mdash ; 9 . .
Bruxelles 1893 .
The Academy .
Academy Royale des Sciences .
Bulletin .
Tome XXVI .
Nos. .
Bruxelles 1893 .
The Academy .
Bucharest : de Sciinte Fizice .
Buletinul .
Anul Ir .
Nos. 9\mdash ; 10 . .
Bucuresci 1893 .
The Society .
Buitenzorg : Lands Plantentuin .
Mededeelingen .
Nos. 8\mdash ; 9 . .
Batavia 1891 .
The Director .
Cambridge :Cambridge Philosophical Society .
Proceedings .
Vol. VIII .
Part 2 . .
Cambridge 1894 .
The Society .
Cambridge , Mass .
:\mdash ; Museum of Comparative Zoology .
Bulletin .
Vol. .
Nos. 2\mdash ; 3 . .
Cambridge 1893 .
The Museum .
Copenhagen : \mdash ; Kongelige DanskeVidenskabernes Selskab .
Bd . .
Nos. 8\mdash ; 9 . .
Kjobe/ havn 189:3 ; Ovel.sigt .
1893 .
No. 2 . .
Kobenhavn .
The Society .
Cacow:\mdash ; Academy des Sciences .
Bullctin .
Novembre , 1893 . .
Cracovie 1893 .
Academy .
Davenport:\mdash ; Academy of Natural Sciences .
] .
Part 2 . .
Davenport , Iowa 1893 .
Academy .
Dublin:\mdash ; Royal Irish Academy .
Transactions .
Vol. .
Parts

