A. Paper was read , entitled , " Description of a Graphical Register of Tides and Winds .
" By Henry R. Palmer , Esq. , Civil Engineer .
Communicated by J. W. Lubbock , Esq. V.P. &amp; Treas .
R.S. The author having long directed his attention to the effects likely to be produced on the tides in the river Thames , in the port of Lon ?
don , by the removal of London Bridge , was desirous of obtaining a series of accurate observations during all the changes of the tides ; and for this purpose constructed a machine , which , being acted upon jointly by a time-piece and by a float resting on the water , registered of itself , upon a piece of paper , both the height of the tide , and the direction of the wind .
A number of parallel and equidistant lines , representing feet in height , are engraved and printed on long sheets of paper , the ends of which are joined together until a sufficient length is obtained for the purpose required .
This long sheet is wound upon a brass roller , which is placed near the lower part of a cylinder one foot in diameter , so that the paper may pass round it ; its contact being preserved by a roller above , pressing upon it by its own weight .
On the axis of the cylinder is a toothed wheel , which is acted upon by a clock , producing an equable motion in the cylinder , which is thus made to complete one revolution in six hours .
By means of another wheel , at the expiration of every hour a hammer is raised , whose fall strikes on an upright punch connected with a weather-cock on the top of the building ; and the figure of an arrow being cut on the lower end of this punch , an impression of the arrow is made upon the paper : as the direction of the arrow always corresponds with that of the wind , the direction of the latter is thus hourly registered .
Immediately over the axis of the cylinder , and parallel with it , is a rack carrying a pencil .
The rack is acted upon by a pinion , which receives its motion from the float on the water : so that as the tide rises or falls , the pencil is moved backwards and forwards through a space which bears a determinate ratio to the actual rise or fall of the float : and thus , by the combined motions of the cylinder and of the pencil , the one regulated by the clock and the other by the tide , a line is traced on the paper , giving a representation of both .
The float , which rests on the water , is a hollow plate iron vessel , suspended by a chain , which passes twice round a light cast-iron barrel , and then descends , having a counter wreight attached to it .
The float is placed in a well communicating with the river , through a fine wire gauze , which prevents the undulations of the surface from affecting the water in the well .
The author concludes by an account of an application of similar machinery to the determination of the precise times of high water , and the construction of accurate tide tables .
He proposes , with this view , an instrument which shall record the height of the tide at every minute , and promises to give to the Society a full description of such a machine when it shall have been completed .

