Account of a Series of Observations , made in the Summer of the Year 1825 , for the purpose of determining the Difference of Meridians of the Royal Observatories of Greenwich and Paris ; drawn up by J. F. W. Herschel , Esq. M.A. Sec. R.S. Communicated by the Board of Longitude .
Read January 12,1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part II .
p. 77 .
] The operations , of which this paper contains an account , were undertaken by the British Board of Longitude , in conjunction with the French Ministry of War , at the invitation of the latter , for the purpose of connecting the Royal Observatories of Greenwich and Paris , by means of signals contemporaneously observed along a chain of stations established for that purpose between them .
The signals employed were the explosions of proper quantities of gunpowder , elevated to a great height in the air by rockets fired at three stations , two on the French , and one on the English side of the Channel , and observed at the observatories , and at two stations intermediate between those at which they were fixed .
These two stations were Lignieres on the French , and Fairlight Down , near Hastings , on the English side .
The operations at the former were made by Captain Sabine and Colonel Bonne ; those at the latter by Mr. Herschel and Mr. Largeteau ; thus securing two independent lines of communication , a British and a French , between the extreme stations , and observers at each station exchanging observations at the termination of the whole operation , which was continued for twelve nights , ten signals being made at each station per night ; and though the whole of them could not be employed , it is stated that the final result , which makes the difference of longitude between the two observatories equal to 9 ' 21'1 6 , is not very likely to be found one tenth of a second in error , and extremely unlikely to prove erroneous to twice that amount .
The observations are then stated in detail ; and the mode of combining them in the most impartial manner , so as to deduce from them the most advantageous result , is next investigated ; and a general formula deduced applicable to all operations of the kind , and including all the necessary corrections .
This formula is then applied to the actual observations , and the result above mentioned deduced .
The two results deduced by considering separately the observationsof the British and of the French observers , at the intermediate stations , exhibit a remarkable coincidence , their difference amounting to only a single hundredth of a second .

