" Thirteenth Series of Tide Researches .
" By the Rev. William Whewell , B.D. , F.R.S. The first part of this paper , " On the Tides of the Pacific , " forms a sequel to former papers by the same author , especially to his first memoir on this subject , printed by the Royal Society in 1833 ( 'Essay towards a first approximation to a map of Cotidal Lines ' ) , and to the Sixth Series published in 1836 ( ' Results of an extended series of Tide Observations made on the coasts of England and America in June 1835 ' ) .
Among the results obtained in the latter paper , it appeared that all the " cotidal lines " which have been most exactly traced , meet the coast at a very acute angle ; and for that and for other reasons stated in other memoirs , the drawing of cotidal lines across wide oceans is a very precarious process .
In addition to this consideration , the scantiness of our materials has hitherto made it impossible to trace the tides of the Pacific in a connected form ; and the absence of lunar tides in the central parts of that ocean ( as at Tahiti ) makes it difficult to represent the course of the tides by means of cotidal lines at all .
We are thus led to consider in what other way the course of the tides over wide spaces may be represented : and it is stated by the author , that either a stationary undulation , or a rotatory undulation , of the central parts of an ocean , with a border of cotidal lines proceeding outwards from the central undulation into bays and arms of the sea , would represent , in a great measure , the tidal phenomena of the Atlantic and Pacific , as far as they are known .
The rotatory undulation here spoken of need not be understood to be a rotatory motion of the water , but a geometrical rotation of the cotidal line , such as takes place in the German Ocean ; the tide in the central part ( that is , the rise and fall of the surface ) variishing , as was shown by the observations of Capt. Hewett , though the tidal currents at that point alternate regularly .
Such a movement of the cotidal line may perhaps represent the phenomena of the North Pacific .
The author has collected materials for a Tide Map of the Pacific from various navigators ; -Cook , Flinders , King , Captains FitzFRoy , Sir E. Belcher , Sir James Ross , Stokes , Killet , and others of our own countrymen ; Malaspina , Freycinet , Du Petit-Thouars , Wrangel and Admiral Liitke , and other Spanish , French and Russian navigators .
The result of these appears to be , that on the eastern coast of the Pacific , the tide comes from the west ; arrives first at the coast near Acapulco and Nicoya , and is later and later both to the north and to the south of this point ; passing to the eastward round Cape Horn , as observed by King , and to the northward along the coast of North America , and then to the westward along the Aleutian Isles , and so to Kamtschatka , as stated by Admiral Liitke .
The tides in the centre of the Pacific are too small and anomalous to allow us to trace the connection among them .
At Tahiti , according to the observations of Sir Edward Belcher , the solar and lunar tides appear to be equal .
The tides have been traced along the coasts of New Zealand and Australia by Cook , Flinders , and other succeeding navigators .
They come from the east ; and the cotidal lines which mark their progress appear to have a north and south range , except when deflected by passing round promontories and the like .
When we pass westward from the eastern coast of Australia , the cotidal lines are too much broken and complicated by the intervention of islands , to be traced with our present materials of knowledge .
The second part of the memoir , " On the Diurnal Inequality , " treats of the difference of the two tides of the same day , which has also been discussed in former memoirs by the author , and its laws so fully made out , that this inequality has been introduced into the tide tables for Liverpool and for Plymouth .
This inequality depends mainly on the moon 's declination .
In England it is small : it is very marked on the coasts of Spain , Portugal and North America , as was shown by the observations of 1836 : but in the North Pacific and in the Indian seas , it reaches an enormous amount , and shows itself with curious differences .
In many places in those seas , the diurnal inequality is much larger than the differences of spring and neap tides , and is so large as utterly to confound the usual modes of estimating the " establishment " of a place .
This inequality affects the tides of various parts on the coast of Australia to a very great amount , and with very remarkable differences .
It is seen at Adelaide on the south , and Port Es:ington on the north coast ; and at each place it produces a difference of several feet between every two successive tides , when it is at its maximum : but this difference affects mainly the high waters at Adelaide and the low waters at Port Essington* .
Also on the west coast of Australia , near Swan River , the diurnal inequality appears with another peculiarity , affecting the times of high water rather than the .
heights .
These differences , the author remarks , show that the , diurnal wave travels separately from the semidiurnal wave ; but our materials do not at present enable us to analyse the compound tidei into these two waves , and to trace the course of each .
The author observes , in conclusion , that our knowledge of the tides is not likely to be completed , nor even much advanced , by tide observations made by navigators and surveyors voyaging with other main objects .
The later observations of the Pacific ; though made with great industry , have added little to the knowledge derived from Cook , Flinders and King , because they were not geographically connected with each other : and the great discrepancies of the obser* These results follow from a series of tide observations made at Adelaide by Mr. Bealten , and at Port Essington by Sir Gordon Brermer .
vations at the same place show how little correctness the mean of them , or the result , however obtained , can pretend to .
The results of the recent observations , with which the author has been furnished by various navigators and by the Hydrographer 's Office , have been obtained by throwing the observations into curves , according , to methods formerly used and described by the author .
This labour has been carefully performed by Mr. D. Ross of the Hydrographer 's Office .

