320 On Diselectrification produced by Magnetism .
" On Diselectrification produced by Magnetism .
Preliminary Note .
" By C. E. S. Phillips .
Communicated by Sir William Crookes , F.RS .
Received June 13 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1899 .
.* The writer has found , that , under certain conditions , an electrified body rapidly loses its charge when in the neighbourhood of a magnetic field .
Nor does it , so far , appear essential that there be any relative motion between the lines of magnetic force and the charged body itself .
Preliminary experiments have been made with apparatus consisting of a glass tube six inches long and one inch in diameter , at the centre of which there was cemented upon both the inner and outer surfaces , a strip of tin-foil one inch wide .
Suitable connections were then arranged for the purpose of charging either , of these metallic layers by means of an electrical machine .
The pole-pieces of a powerful electro-magnet projected into each end of the glass tube , through an air-tight flange , and in such a manner as to ensure the production of a strong magnetic field at the central portion of the tube .
A Sprengel air-pump was used to rarefy the gas within the tube , and , in the first instance , the inner coating of tin-foil was charged positively .
This charge gave rise to the well known free positive and a bound negative charge upon the outer tin-foil coating , the presence of the former being indicated by the divergence of the leaves of an electroscope connected to that coating .
While the pressure of the gas within the glass tube was varied over a range of from atmospheric pressure to that represented by 02 mm. of mercury , the charge upon the inner coating being either positive or negative showed no appreciable indication of being affected by the turning on or off of the magnet .
But at pressures lower than 02 mm. , and when the inner coating was positive , the sudden collapsing of the electroscope leaves pointed to the removal of the charge through the action of starting or stopping the magnetic flux .
Although the effect was more powerful at the moment of making or breaking the magnet circuit , it persisted in a modified degree as long as the magnetic field existed .
No such effect was observed when the inner coating was negatively charged , nor was there any action even in the first case when the magnetic pole-pieces , projecting into the tube , were magnetised so as to be either both north or both south .
The leaves of the electroscope were then connected to one of the internal pole-pieces , and it was seen that if sufficient positive electricity were supplied to the inner coating while the magnet was excited , it became rapidly withdrawn , and ultimately resided upon the pole-pieces themselves .

