III .
" On the Distillation of Mixtures : a Contribution to the Theory of Fractional Distillation .
" By J. A. WANKLYN , Esq. Communicated by Dr. FRANKLAND .
Received April 17 , 1863 .
There are many points in the boiling of mixtures which are obscure .
The tension of the vapours at the temperature whereat the mixture boils , and the proportions in which the constituents of the mixture are present , are not the only factors which determine the relative rates at which the constituents distil .
There have , for instance , to be taken into account the adhesion of the liquids to one another , and the vapour-densities of these liquids .
On the present occasion I have to call attention to the influence of this latter element , which influence seems to have been lost sight of by most of those who have applied themselves to this subject .
Leaving out of account for a moment the influence of adhesion , and simplifying the influence of the proportion in which the ingredients are present by taking equal weights of two liquids of different boiling-points , we may set down the rates at which these ingredients will distil as determined by the tensions of the liquids and the densities of the vapours .
In the first instant of time the quantity of each ingredient which distils will be found by multiplying its tension at the boiling-point of the mixture by its vapour-density .
It thus appears that the liquid with the highest tension will not of necessity distil the quickest , for what the other liquids want in tension they may make up by the greater density of the vapours which they give off .
And so when we mix a more volatile with a less volatile liquid and proceed to distil the mixture , we shall now and then find that the less volatile liquid distils faster than the more volatile one .
I will here bring forward an experiment to illustrate this point .
Vapour-density .
Methyl-alcohol boils at 66 ?
C ... ... ... 1 107 Iodide of ethyl boils at 72 ?
C ... ... ... 5-397 I took 18 grammes of methyl-alcohol and 17 grammes of iodide of ethyl , mixed them , and distilled off rather more than one-third of the mixture .
The distillate consisted of 6'0 grammes methyl-alcohol , 8ยง 7 grammes iodide of ethyl , 14'7 which shows that in this case the less volatile constituent had boiled the faster , the less volatile iodide of ethyl having a very much higher vapour-density than methyl-alcohol .
It will be obvious that when the vapour-densities and tensions are inversely proportional , the mixture must distil over unchanged .
This influence of vapour-density goes a great way to explain why homologous bodies are so difficult of separation by means of fractional distillation .
The more complex the formula the higher the boiling-point , but also the higher the vapour-density , and therefore the greater the value of the vapour .
Why oils , &amp;c. distil so readily in steam is also explained ; for aqueous vapour is one of the lightest , while oily vapours are generally heavy .

