]\gt ; Parallel Cylindrical Conductors in Electrical oblems .
465 a small change in current produces a large change of the same sign in the wave-length .
This property could be applied , for example , to give modulation of wave-length , such as is sought in wireless telephony , or to form the basis of a new method of amplification .
In this case the electrical stimulus to be amplified would be introduced into the filament circuit by means of a transformer .
The consequent change in would be the index showing the receipt of the stimulus .
\mdash ; Parallel Cylindrical Conductors in Problems .
By F. J. W. WHIPPLE , M.A. ( Communicated by Dr. C. Chree , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1919 .
) In a recent paper* Dr. Alexander Russell has called attention to the practical importance of the electrostatic problem of determining the distribution of charge and of potential when parallel cylindrical conductors are electrified .
Russell points out that the same analysis will serve for the calculation of the current density and the magnetic flux when currents of high frequency pass along the parallel conductors .
The solution he tgives for the case of equal and opposite charges ( or currents ) iu the two conductors is exact , but in the general case a more elaborate investigation is necessary .
In the present paper the problem is solved by the method of conjugate functions .
For the most part , the results are given in forms convenient for numerical calculation .
The investigation is confined to the case in which the two cylinders are of the same size ; for case ordinary Jacobian elliptic functions suffice though in general theta-functions are required and the algebra is rather heavy .
It is hardly to be supposed that a problem of such a simple character in a favourite field of investigation has not been solved before .
It is desirable , however , to the solution in an accessible form .
2 .
Notation.\mdash ; The problem to be considered is virtually in two dimensions , the cylinders being represented by circular sections .
Let be the radius of either circle , the distance between the centres , the distance between the limiting points and Take the origin midway between the centres and the axis of X along the * Electrical Theorems in connection with Parallel Cylindrical Conductors Phys. Soc. Proc vol. 31 , p. 111 ( 1919 ) .
Mr. F. J. W. Whipple .
Equal Parallel line joining them .
The position of a point may be defined by curvilinear co-ordinates and such that the angle , and , which relations are equivalent to the equation or to ( 2 ) with ( 3 ) The two conducting circles are given by where satisfies the equations cosech ( 4 ) .
and .
( 5 ) 3 .
Equal Cylinders with Equal Charges.\mdash ; The potential function and the conjugate function suggested for consideration are determined by the equation , ( 6 ) in which is the charge per unit length of either cylinder , is the real quarter-period of the elliptic function , and is an bitrary constant .
The form of the function on the right is such that is a periodic function of with period .
The condition that the potential may be constant over the surfaces is , ( 7 ) where 2 is the imaginary period of the function To prove this we have sn and therefore so that , if ( 7 ) holds good , ( 6 ) gives when .
( 8 ) The fimction has no poles in the finite part of the plane outside the cylinders , and as it has the same constant value over the two cylinders it represents the potential when they carry equal charges .
Cylindrical onductors in Electrrical Problems .
It is of interest to notice that , where , defined as , is the quantity usually denoted by that letter in the theory of elliptic functions .
4 .
Potential at a Great Distance ( charges ) potential at a great distance from the conductors is determined by the asymptotic equation , ( 9 ) where is the radius vector from the origin .
If the zero of potential is on , it follows from ( 8 ) that On this convention the potential at a great distance is given by , ( 10 ) and is therefore asymptotic to that due to a total charge per unit length distributed over a cylinder of radius , where $K .
( 11 ) This equivalent radius is given in Table II .
Table I.\mdash ; Dimensions .
Table II.\mdash ; Potential and Force .
Mr. F. J. W. Whipple .
Equal rallel 5 .
Distribution of Lines of Force , etc.\mdash ; To determine the distribution of the charge on either cylinder , a knowledge of the variation in is necessary .
Equation ( 6 ) may be written ( 12 ) where On writing it is that at points on the cylinder as before , whilst sd ( 13 ) where is an integer .
In passing round the cylinder increases continually , and so does the first inverse tangent , but the second one oscillates about zero .
If we take , the formula gives when ; when ; when 6 .
Density of the Charge.\mdash ; To find , the density of charge , Equation 12 may be differentiated .
Since , where is the arc on the circumference of the cylinder and is the element of the normal , it follows that cn .
( 14 ) The mean surface density is given by .
( 15 ) It follows that , the density at the points of either cylinder furthest from the other , and , the density at the points which are nearest , are related to by the equations ( 16 ) and ( 17 ) respectively .
The ratio of these densities is given by ( 18 ) where The ratios and are tabulated in Table III .
They are graphed as functions of in fig. 1 .
Cylindrical Conductors in Blectrical Problems .
Table III.\mdash ; Concentration of Charge .
FI l.\mdash ; Surface densities at points on a common diameter of cylinders carrying equal charges .
( Mean density over a cylinder unity .
) Mr. F. J. W. Whipple .
Equal Paratlel between axes ( imeCer of eiCher cylinder ) FIO .
2.\mdash ; Surface densities at points on a common diameter of two cylinders , one charged , the other uncharged .
( Mean density on charged cylinder unity .
) 7 .
Potentinon the Axes.\mdash ; The way in which the potential varies along the axes is of interest:\mdash ; ( a ) For , i.e. , for the continuation of a common diameter of the cylinders , the equation gives ; , ( 19 ) where the dash is to indicate that the complementary modulus is used .
( b ) On the part of the common diameter intercepted between the cylinders , and therefore ; .
( 20 ) ( c ) On the axis of , and therefore ; .
( 21 ) 8 .
Potential on the Orthogomxl Cirde.\mdash ; As an additional guide for drawing the equipotentials and lines of force , their intersections with the circle , which cuts the conductors orthogonally and symmetrically , are required .
The circle is specified by Over this circle and are given by , ( 22 ) and which may be derived from ( 12 ) .
Cylindrical Conductors in Etectrical Problems .
9 .
Repulsion between Cylinders Carrying Equal Charges.\mdash ; The repulsion per unit length is where ( 23 ) the integral being taken round the circumference .
On substitution it is found that cn .
( 24 ) On integration this equation reduces to where , ( 25 ) being the second elliptic The formula ( 25 ) has been used in computing the repulsion in Table II .
The results are shown graphically in fig. 3 .
It will be seen that for cylinders whose distance is large compared with their radii , On the other hand when the cylinders are very close so that the repulsion between equal cylinders in contact carrying equal is the same as that between line charges at a distance equal to three radii , a result which can be veritied by independent analysis of this important special case .
* 10 .
Equat ; Any Charges.\mdash ; By combining the foregoing solution for equal positive with the well-known one for equal and opposite charges , viz. , , the distribution of potential in the general case can be found .
If the charges are on and on , and if the zero of potential is at the origin , then sn .
( 26 ) The potentials of the two cylinders are given by , ( 27 ) * The solution depends on the equation Mr. F. J. W. Whipple .
Equal Parallel whilst the potential at a great distance is given by .
The of the charge on the cylinder can be computed from the formula , ( 29 ) and the repulsion between the cylinders is determined by ( 30 ) , where A is defined by ( 25 ) .
The force is negative , i.e. , there is an attraction when is large compared with .
The condition for the force to vanish is .
( 31 ) When one of the cylinders is uncharged , so that there is an attraction weeT .
Diameber of either cylinder ) FIG. 3.\mdash ; The force between two cylinders .
For the case the surface densities at the points where and are tabulated in Table III and shown graphically in flg .
2 .
Cytindrical Conductors in Electrical Problems .
11 .
Potential and Capacity \mdash ; In the ordinary treatment of potential in three-dimensional problems , it is taken as zero at a great distance from the conductors under consideration .
When dealing with cylinders which are regarded for the purpose of analysis as infinite , the difference of potential between them and an object at a great distance increases as the arithm of the distance and this distance must appear 'explicitly in the formulae .
In the present problem we are tually compelled to complete our system of two cylinders with charges QI and , by supposing them to be surrounded by a very large cylinder , which may be supposed to have a radius , and to be symmetrically placed with regard to them , and to have zero potential .
It carries on its inner surface the charge .
The potential of the first cylinder is now given by so that if ( 34 ) we have and ( 35 ) being written for , ( 36 ) 'or in the notation of S4 for Numerical values of the coefficients , are set out in Table II and shown graphically in fig. 4 .
The charges can be written down in terms of the potentials in the form where the capacity coefficients are given by the relations .
( 37 ) It will be noticed that as the capacity coefficients remain finite ; Mr. F. J. W. Whipple .
rallel of FIG. 4.\mdash ; Potential coefficients .
These relations are not of direct service however : they merely indicate that , as long as is small compared with , the total charge on the two cylinders is negligible and that approximately .
It is of interest to compare the potential coefficient with that of a single isolated cylinder of radius , which is .
The difference is equal to and , therefore , independent of .
This indicates that bringing another conducting cylinder to the neighbourhood of a charged cylinder changes the potential of the latter by a finite amount .
Calculation shows that as long as the distance is considerable the effect is small .
When the gap between the cylinders is equal to the diameter of either , the difference is only 11 .
cent. of its value when the gap is infinitesimal .
12 .
The electrostatic energy of the system per unit length is where .
( 38 )

