XI .
" Results of the Magnetic Observations at the Kew Observatory .
-No .
III .
Lunar Diurnal Variation of the three Magnetic Elements .
" By Lieut.-General EDWARD SABINE , P.R.S. Received June 21 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) The subject of this paper is the lunar-diurnal variation of the magnetic declination and of the horizontal and vertical components of the magnetic force , derived from a seven years ' series of photographic records obtained at the Kew Observatory between January 1 , 1858 and December 31 , 1864 .
The discussion which it contains has for its objects-st , to exemplify the consistent and systematic character of the llnar-diurnal influence thus derived ; and 2ndly , to serve both as a guide and as an encouragement to the several establishments at home and abroad which have adopted , or are Op. cit. p. 794 .
t " On the arrangement of the Muscular Fibres in the Ventricles of the Vertebrate Heart , " by the author , Phil. Trans. part iii .
1864 , p. 451 .
adopting the Kew methods of magnetic investigation .
The completeness of the photographic process is shown by the fact , that of 175,344 hourly positions which should have been recorded in the interval under notice , there were only 1497 failures from all causes whatsoever ; and even of these few a considerable portion is shown to be due to the employment of the instruments in other experimental investigations .
The paper contains a full statement of the processes of tabulation from the photograms , and of the different stages of reduction through which the tabular results were passed , for the purpose of deriving from them the facts connected with the lunar influence on the terrestrial magnetic elements .
A lunardiurnal variation is shown to exist in each of these elements , of very small amount , but having peculiar and well-marked systematic characteristics .
It is further shown that these characteristics present a similarity and accordance , which it is impossible to regard as accidental , with the results obtained at several other and widely-separated localities in the middle latitudes of both hemispheres , as for example at Iobarton , Toronto , Philadelphia , Pekin , and the Cape of Good Iope .
A magnetic variation shown to be thus obviously dependent upon the moon 's position relatively to the terrestrial meridian , and agreeing in its principal features in such various localities , is urged by the author as being ascribable with great probability to the direct magnetic action of the moon , made sensible at the surface of the earth through the production of phenomena which , in the present state of our knowledge as regards the magnetism both of the earth and of the moon , it is as yet difficult wholly to explain , but which are likely to lead to a considerable advance of our knowledge in both these respects .
The further prosecution of the investigation , both at Kew and elsewhere , is recommended as highly deserving the attention of those who occupy themselves in the pursuits of inductive philosophy .

