A paper was read , entitled , " On the valuation of the mechanical effect of Gradients on a line of Railroad .
" Bv Peter Barlow , Esq. , F.R.S. The exact amount of the influence of ascents and descents occurring in the line of a railway on the motion of a load drawn by a locomotive engine having been differently estimated by different persons , the author was induced to investigate the subject .
A few observations are premised on the erroneous assumptions which , he conceives , have in general vitiated the results hitherto deduced .
The first of these is that the expenditure of power requisite for motion is equal to the resistance to traction ?
whereas it must always greatly exceed it .
No account , he remarks , has been taken of the pressure of the atmosphere on the piston , which the force of the steam has to overcome before it can be available as a moving power .
Another source of error has been that the statical and dynamical effects of friction have been confounded to ?
gether ?
whereas they are the same in amount only when the body is put in motion by gravity ; but not when it is urged down an inclined plane by an extraneous force .
In the latter case these effects are no longer comparable j friction being a force which , in an infinitely small time , is proportional to the velocity , while that of gravity is constant atall velocities - , or , in other words , the retardation from friction is proportional to the space described , while that from gravity has reference only to the time of acting , whatever space the body may pass over in that time .
It is an error to assume that the mechanical power of the plane is equivalent to a reduction of so much friction ; for the friction down the inclined plane is the same as on a horizontal plane of the same length , rejecting the trifling difference of pressure j and the whole retardation inpassingover the plane , orthe whole force required to overcome it , is the same at all velocities , and by whatever force the motion is produced ; but the assisting force from gravity is quite inde ?
pendent of the space or of the velocity .
In the investigations which the author has prosecuted in this paper , he assumes that equal quantities of steam are produced in the same time at all velocities ; and he adopts for his other data , those given by Mr. Pambour in his Treatise of Locomotive Engines .
He deduces a formula from which , the speed on a level being given , we may compute the relative and absolute times of a train ascending a plane ?
and consequently also the ratio of the forces expended in the two cases ?
or the length of an equivalent horizontal plane ?
that is , of one which will require the same time and power to be passed over by the loco ?
motive engine as the ascending plane .
The nextobjects of inquiry relate to the descent of trains on an in ?
clined plane , and comprise two cases : the first , that when the power of the engine is continued without abatement ; and the second , that when the steam is wholly excluded , and the train is urged in its de ?
scent by gravity alone .
The author arrives at the conclusions , that in the first of these cases , when the declivity is onein 139 , the velocity .
on becoming uniform , will be double that in a horizontal plane : and that for a declivity of one in 695 , the uniform velocity of descent will be one fifth greater than on the horizontal plane - , and this , he observes , is perhaps the greatest additional velocity which it would be prudent to admit .
A plane of one in 695 is therefore the steepest de ?
clivity that ought to be descended with the steam-valve fully open ; all planes with a declivity between this and that of one in 139 require to have the admission of steam regulated so as to modify the speed , and adjust it to considerations of safety ?
and lastly , all planes of a greater slope than this last require , in descending them , the application of the brake .

