384 Mr. W. H. Cripps on a [ Apr. 29 , atmosphere or envelope .
Notwithstanding the somewhat conflicting statements which have appeared since writing my Note No. I. , as to the phenomena seen at certain stations , and pending the authoritative decisions which may hereafter be pronounced , it appears to me probable that height of station , inferiority of instruments , insensibility of eye to faint lights and shadows , and other causes , are likely to conspire towards producing a ligament ( or jpecw-drop ) at the internal contacts , provided there is an atmosphere or envelope around the planet to afford a first cause .
Dehra Doon , 17th December , 1874 .
II .
" On a Continuous Self-registering Thermometer .
" By W. Harrison Cripps .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received March 17 , 1875 .
The object of this paper is to explain the working of a continuous selfregistering thermometer , the detail of which I have been for some years endeavouring to perfect , though it is only recently that I have brought my instrument to the perfection necessary for practical demonstration .
I am aware of many imperfections in the instrument , but trust that these will be remedied after some further experiments .
The object of my invention is to produce a thermometer that shall not only register the highest and lowest temperature occurring in a given time , but shall also , by a pencil indicator , mark automatically every minute variation occurring during the time the instrument is at work .
This thermometer will , I hope , be of value for meteorological observations ; for it will show the exact variations taking place from minute to minute during day and night , and by this means determine the exact amount of alterations in temperature occurring simultaneously at various places during different periods of the month or year , without the trouble of photographic registration .
By a simple modification of my instrument , I believe that I shall be able to produce a thermometer of such form and size as shall enable the physician or physiologist to learn with accuracy the exact hour and minute when any alteration of temperature in the human body takes place , and automatically to register these variations .
As regards the barometer , many beautiful self-registering instruments are in use ; for the lower surface of the mercurial column being exposed , offers an easy method of producing a motive force .
In the thermometer the case is different , for no means of communication exist between the registering machinery and the mercury in its hermetically sealed tube .
So far as I know , the only instrument of this kind ever suggested is the one by Merey ; but from the fact that air is the motive force used by 1875 .
] Continuous Self-registering Thermometer .
385 him , acting upon mercury in an open tube , his instrument must be regarded more as a barometer than as a means of measuring the temperature of the atmosphere .
My instrument is divided into two portions :\#151 ; 1st , the thermometer , which marks the degrees ; 2ndly , the clockwork , which indicates the hours and minutes .
The thermometer shall be first described .
The form in which it was originally made , and which perhaps serves best for illustrating the principle , was the following :\#151 ; A glass bulb , rather more than an inch in diameter , ends in a glass tube 12 inches long , having a bore of | inch .
This tube is coiled round the bulb in such a manner as to form a complete circle 4 inches in diameter , the bulb being in the centre of this circle .
Fixed to opposite poles of the bulb , exactly at right angles to the encircling tube , are two needle-pointed pivots .
These pivots work in minute metal depressions fixed to the sides of two parallel uprights .
It will be seen from this arrangement that the bulb with its glass tube will rotate freely between the uprights , and the pivots will be the centre of a circle , the circumference of which is formed by the glass tube .
The bulb is filled with spirit in such quantity that at 60 ' Fahrenheit the spirit will fill not only the bulb , but about 4 inches of the tube .
Mercury is then passed into the tube till it comes into contact with the spirit , and in such quantity as to fill up about 3 inches of the remaining portion of the tube .
The spirit is now heated to 120 ' , and as it expands forces the column of mercury in front of it till the mercury comes within \ inch of the end of the tube .
The tube is then hermetically sealed , enclosing a small quantity of air .
If the thermometer be now arranged with its needle-points between the uprights , it will be observed that , as the spirit contracts on cooling , it draws the column of mercury with it .
This immediately alters the centre of gravity , and the bulb and tube begin to revolve in a direction opposite to that of the receding mercury .
On again applying heat , and the mercury passing forwards , the bulb regains its original position .
By this simple arrangement , the two forces , heat and gravity , acting in contrary directions , generate a beautifully steady rotatory movement .
The method by which this movement is made serviceable for moving the register will now be described .
A grooved wheel , 2 inches in diameter , is fixed to one of the central pivots , therefore revolving with the bulb .
Directly above and at a distance of 7 inches from this wheel is fixed between needle-points another wheel of exactly similar size .
Around and between these two Wheels passes a minute endless chain .
386 On a Continuous Self-registering Thermometer .
[ Apr. 29 To the chain is fixed a tiny pencil , which will be carried backwards and forwards between the wheels in a perpendicular line .
This constitutes the register worked by the thermometer .
The clockwork portion of the machine is so arranged that it causes a vertical cylinder , 4 inches diameter and 5 inches in length , to revolve once in 24 hours .
Round this cylinder is fixed a piece of paper 12 inches long , 5 inches wide .
On the paper in the direction of its greatest length are ruled 100 lines , fa inch apart , each indicating 1 ' Fahrenheit .
Across the paper , at right angles to these lines , are ruled twenty-four lines ix dark ink , indicating the hours ; between these three others , more lightlj marked , for the quarters .
The cylinder is so placed that , as it revolves the surface of the paper is fa of an inch away from the point of the pencil register moving at right angles to its surface .
A small striker is connected with the clockwork in such a manner that every 5 minutes ( or oftener if required ) it gives the pencil a gentle tap .
thus striking its point against the paper .
By this means all friction of the moving pencil against the paper is avoided , and the index is marked by a series of dots .
In the model which I bring before the Society , the arrangement of the bulb is somewhat modified , for a spiral coil of glass tube is made to take its place .
By this means not only is a larger surface of the spiril exposed to the air , making the thermometer more delicate , but also al fear of the mercury being drawn into the bulb is obviated .
The last turn of the spiral coil is made as a perfectly true circle with a diameter of 4 inches .
The spiral within this circle is made of such a size that each degree oi heat applied to the contained spirit shall force the mercury of an incl along the circle .
Since the wheel moving the register equals 2 inches diameter , or on ) half the diameter of the mercurial circle , the pencil will move fa of ax inch for each degree of heat .
In some of the earlier experiments performed , I found that in straigW tubes the spirit had a tendency to pass the mercurial column without moving it .
This , however , is not the case when the tube forms a portior of a circle , for the pressure of the mercury at the lowest portion of the segment prevents the spirit passing the mercury .
I trust that I have made this description of the thermometer intelligible ; but a glance at the working model which I have the honour oi bringing before the Society will at once explain the details of the machine .
The Society then adjourned over Ascension Day , to Thursday .
May 13th .

