187 On the Non-identity of Trypanosoma brucei , Plimmer and Bradford , 1899 , with the Trypanosome of the Same Name from the Uganda Ox. By J. W. W. Stephens , M.D. , D.P.H. ( Cantab .
) , and B. Blacklock , M.D. , D.P.H. ( Communicated by Sir R. Ross , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received December 7 , 1912 , \#151 ; Read January 23 , 1913 .
) Introduction .
Before considering our own observations it will be necessary to review briefly previous statements regarding the morphology of Trypanosoma brucei .
( 1 ) Bruce ( 1 ) states that the hsematozoa vary among themselves a good deal in shape and size and seem to take on slightly different forms in different species of animals .
He publishes four figures depicting nine trypanosomes .
Possibly one or two of the five figured from the dog might be considered to be " stumpy " forms .
( 2 ) Kanthack , Durham , and Blandford ( 2 ) state that the Nagana parasites vary considerably both in size and form .
They may be long and pointed and sometimes stouter , some individuals are short and thick with a short flagellum , their protoplasm being crowded with granules .
This description suggests dimorphism , but it should be noted that forms without a free flagellum are not mentioned .
No slides were available belonging to these observers , but Dr. Durham kindly lent us a large series of photographs .
On examining these , one or , perhaps , two show a " stumpy " form , but it is difficult to be certain , and the uniformity of the remainder is striking .
They state that " the material for our observation was obtained in the first instance from the blood of a dog infected by the disease on the voyage from Africa , and brought to England in November , 1896 , by Dr. Waghorn .
" This animal we believe to be the origin of the strain of T. , Plimmer and Bradford , 1899 , described by these authors , and at present maintained in England , so far as we can gather , solely at Liverpool .
It is not stated above from what animal the dog was infected on the voyage , nor is it stated what the exact original source of the strain derived from Zululand was .
( 3 ) Plimmer and Bradford ( 3 and 4 ) describe four forms in the blood , but neither their description nor figures suggest that they have seen stumpy forms .
They describe a large hyaline form .
" " This organism is much larger than the ordinary adult form , and is much wider , often more than VOL. LXXXVI.-B .
p 188 Drs. Stephens and Blacklock .
T. brucei , Plimmer and [ Dec. 7 , double the width , and is more irregular in shape .
The protoplasm is quite homogeneous and much more delicate , and it stains very faintly with the methylene blue .
" They are still to be found in films , and we easily found them in Dr. Plimmer 's old films , but we found only extremely rarely forms that could be called " stumpy .
" We think that if they had been present these observers would hardly have failed to have noticed and drawn attention to them , as they have a striking appearance .
( 4 ) Bruce and others ( 5 ) make a comparison between T. brucei , Uganda , 1909 , and T. brucei , Zululand , 1894 .
They state that many of the old Zululand preparations are still extant , so that it has been possible to do this .
The preparations were , however , 15 years old , and had been stained with carbol fuchsin .
The slides were got from horse , donkey , ox , monkey , dog ; 200 trypanosomes were measured from the Zululand strain and 172 from the Uganda strain .
The curves obtained in this way certainly resemble one another , though in one case the peak is at 18 / x , in the other case at 20 Also trypanosomes are figured from each strain , and there can be little doubt that there is a close resemblance , if not identity , viz. , in the fact that both possess both long and stumpy forms .
" With the evidence available the Commission consider themselves justified in considering the trypanosome recovered from the Uganda ox to be identical with T. brucei , the cause of Nagana in Zululand and other parts of South Africa .
" Further , Bruce states in another paper ( 6 ) that T. brucei ( Uganda strain ) has actually 26 per cent , of non-flagellated forms .
( 5 ) In 1911 Laveran ( 7 ) published an article , entitled " Identification et essai de classification des trypanosomes des mammiferes .
" In this article he places T. brucei in his Group I , " Trypanosomes chez lesquels le flagelle presente toujours une partie libre , " whereas he places T. gambiense in his Group III , " Trypanosomes ayant des formes a flagelle libre et des formes sans flagelle libre .
" Or , in other words , T. brucei is classed among the monomorphic trypanosomes while T. gambiense is among the dimorphic .
We have then two opposite statements as to the morphology of T. brucei , ( 1 ) that it is monomorphic and ( 2 ) that it is dimorphic .
We possess two strains of ( so-called ) T. brucei in the laboratory , viz. , the Zululand strain , of which we have given the origin above , and the Uganda strain from Surgeon-General Bruce , obtained originally from the ox in Uganda in 1909 .
These strains have been maintained continuously at ftuncorn in a variety of animals , the Zululand strain for 4\#163 ; years , and the Uganda strain for 2\#163 ; years .
In the case of the Uganda strain it was lost in 1912 .
] Bradford , 1899 , and Trypanosome from Uganda Ox. 189 1912 for a short period but was returned to us again by Prof. Mesnil , who had previously received it from us .
We made then a preliminary examination of these two strains , and found to our surprise that they could easily be distinguished morphologically .
We next proceeded to make a detailed examination of the two strains in a series of slides throughout the entire period of infection in various animals , viz. , rats , guinea-pigs , and rabbits .
As the result , we believe we have established the following facts :\#151 ; ( a ) The Zululand strain is typically monomorphic .
The trypanosomes are long , with a long free flagellum .
We must admit , however , that it is possible ( as we believe is the case also in another typically monomorphic trypanosome , viz. , T. evansi)to find by long search short forms which somewhat resemble true stumpy forms , but we must emphasise the fact that , in all the slides we have examined , prolonged search is necessary to find them .
( b ) We have also verified the fact that Laveran 's T. brucei strain also is , as he says , monomorphic .
The origin of this strain seems uncertain .
Laveran probably received it from Ehrlich , but where the latter got it from cannot now be ascertained .
Unless it came from England , there must be two monomorphic T. brucei strains in existence , not to mention the possibility of other T. brucei strains of uncertain parentage in various laboratories .
We have examined also old slides from the Zululand strain lent us by Prof. Nuttall , Colonel Skinner , R.A.M.C. , and Dr. Plimmer.* All these were monomorphic .
We repeat here that in these films , or at least some of them , it was possible by long search to find a short form somewhat resembling a stumpy form , but not having the somewhat indefinable characteristic appearance of the latter .
( c ) The Uganda strain , on the contrary , is typically , besides the usual long forms of trypanosomes , stumpy forms are readily found , even in abundance occasionally , when the infection is well marked .
Bruce ( 6 ) , as we have noted above , states that this trypanosome has 26 per cent , of non-flagellated forms .
The typical stumpy form we may define as a short , thick trypanosome , 12-14 p , almost straight or slightly curved along one edge , while along the other the membrane is thrown into bold folds , there being no free flagellum , or at times a very short or doubtfully free one .
It is thus easy to distinguish a typical Uganda specimen from a Zululand specimen , and , in fact , we may express the difference in this way , that it is * We desire here to express our thanks to these gentlemen for their kindness in sending us slides .
190 Drs. Stephens and Blacklock .
T. brucei , Plimmer and [ Dec. 7 , impossible to match a typical Uganda slide by any slide from the Zululand strain .
We have stated in the above history of the Uganda strain that it was recently returned to us by Prof. Mesnil , who remarked in his letter that he had maintained it in mice ( for nearly a year ) , and that it showed now very few " trapues " forms .
This we have been able to verify in the films made from the infected mouse sent to us .
But , as soon as we had re-inoculated it into guinea-pigs , it again showed numerous stumpy forms .
But the same does not hold good for the Zululand strain ; in guinea-pigs , as in rats and rabbits , the strain is typically monomorphic , i.e. it does not show stumpy forms .
We therefore conclude that the two strains , as we now possess them in the laboratory , are different .
How , then , are we to explain these facts ?
There seem to us three possibilities:\#151 ; 1 .
That the strain we now possess , which we have been designating T. brucei , Zululand , ' is not this strain at all , but some other trypanosome inoculated erroneously during the course of inoculations extending over years .
We think this view is untenable , for it would not explain the monomorphic character of the old slides we have examined , nor would it explain Laveran 's monomorphic trypanosome .
2 .
While Bruce may have been working with a dimorphic trypanosome in Zululand , and still has slides showing these characters , it is quite possible that the strain sent by him to England was something quite different .
This is all the more likely , as Bruce successfully infected dogs from a variety of wild game , viz. , wildebeeste , kudu , bushbuck , and buffalo , and , as Bruce himself states , " when T. brucei was discovered in Zululand in 1894 , it was naturally thought to be the one and only trypanosome in Africa , " and no suspicion arose at that time of a multiplicity of trypanosomes in native game .
This is the simplest explanation , and the fact that Plimmer and Bradford do not describe or figure stumpy forms , and our examination of Dr. Plimmer 's slides had the same result , makes it probable that this is the true one .
3 .
That the strain originally sent to England was dimorphic , but that it has now become monomorphic .
This may have come about in two ways :\#151 ; ( a ) The strain originally was a mixture of a long trypanosome and a stumpy trypanosome , and the stumpy has now died out .
If this explanation were valid , it would probably imply that T. gambiense and other dimorphic trypanosomes were also mixtures .
This we regard as a not impossible view , but one we cannot at present prove or disprove .
( b ) The strain was originally dimorphic ( but not a mixture ) , and that it has now become monomorphic .
If this were so , it would modify materially 1912 .
] Bradford , 1899 , and Trypanosome from Uganda 191 our notions of specificity of trypanosomes , at least in laboratories .
Of such a change we have at present not much evidence .
We have noted , however , above that the Uganda strain kept in mice for a year was almost ( but not entirely ) monomorphic , but that in guinea-pigs it at once showed its normal characters .
It is impossible at present to decide between these explanations .
We come back , therefore , to the fact of which we ourselves have no doubt , viz. , that the trypanosome that Plimmer and Bradford worked with , and which they named T. brucei in 1899 , is certainly now a monomorphic trypanosome , and is not the same as the trypanosome from the ox described under the same name by Bruce and others in Uganda .
We believe , then , that the facts we have brought forward prove the non-identity of the Zululand and Uganda strains .
In order to avoid confusion , we think it advisable that this Uganda trypanosome should be re-named .
We therefore propose for it the name T. ugandce .
REFERENCES .
( 1 ) Bruce , ' Further Report on the Tsetse-fly Disease or Nagana in Zululand , ' by Surgeon-Major David Bruce , A.M.S. ( 1896 ?
) , Harrison and Sons , London .
( 2 ) Kanthack , Durham , and Blandford , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1898 , vol. 64 , p. 100 .
3 ) Plimmer and Bradford , " A Preliminary Note on the Morphology and Distribution of the Organism Found in the Tsetse-fly Disease , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1900 , vol. 65 , p. 274 .
( 4 ) Bradford , J. R. , and Plimmer , H. G. , " The Trypanosoma brucei , the Organism Found in Nagana or Tsetse-fly Disease , " ' Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Sci. , ' 1902 , vol. 45 , p. 449 .
( 5 ) Bruce and others , ' Reports of the Sleeping Sickness Commission of the Royal Society , ' 1911 , No. XI , p. 147 .
( 6 ) Bruce , ibid. , 1912 , No. XII , p. 24 .
( 7 ) Laveran , " Identification et essai de classification des trypanosomes des mammifferes , " 'Ann .
de l'lnstitut Pasteur , ' July , 1911 , No. 7 , p. 497 .

