Experimental Inquiries r elative to the Distribution and Changes of the Magnetic Intensity in Ships of War .
By George Harvey , Esq. Communicated by John Barrow , Esq. F.R.S. Read Feb. 26 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 310 .
] This paper contains the details of experiments made on board several vessels , with a view of determining the influence of the iron in the ships upon the compass under different circumstances and situations .
The instrument used for determining the intensity consisted of a magnetized cylindrical bar , 2-5 inches long and three eightieths of an inch diameter , delicately suspended by a single fibre of the silkworm , to the extremity of an adjusting screw , which worked in the cap of the glass vessel enclosing the bar .
A brass wire also passed through the cap for the purpose of placing the bar at right angles to the magnetic meridian previous to its being put into a state of oscillation .
On the days devoted to the experiments on ship-board , the time of making 50 vibrations of the bar was determined in the centre of a meadow , of which the substratum was dry slate , by a mean of six sets of experiments , the time being accurately registered to quarter seconds .
The instrument was then taken on board , and placed in succession at the different stations of the ship , and the mean of six sets of experiments determined at each station with the same precautions as on land .
The times , says the author , of performing the oscillations on shore , and at each of the assumed points in the ship , necessarily gave the magnetic intensity at each station in terms of the terrestrial intensity , which in this case was represented by 100 .
Experiments on the Elasticity and Strength of Hard and Soft Steel .
In a Letter to Thomas Young , M.D. For .
Sec. R.S. By Mr. Thomas Tredgold , Civil Engineer .
Read March 25 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 354 .
] The bars of steel used in these experiments were supported at the ends by two blocks of cast iron , resting upon a wooden frame , and a scale for weights was suspended from the middle of the length of the bar , by a cylindrical steel pin , three eighths of an inch in diameter .
To measure the flexure a quadrantal piece of mahogany was attached to the frame , with a vertical bar sliding in two guides at its edge , and moving an index .
The bar and index were so balanced , that one end of the bar bore with constant pressure upon the specimen , and the graduated arc was divided into inches , tenths , and hundredths .
The thousandths were measured by a vernier .
A bar of blistered steel of file hardness , 13 inches long between the supports , underwent no permanent alteration of form when loaded with lOlbs .
The temper of the bar was then successively lowered , and it was ultimately again hardened ; but in these different states its flexure and resistance to permanent change of form remained the same .

