III .
" On some of the Products of the Distillation of Boghead Coal at low temperatures .
" By C. GREVILLE WILLIAMS , Esq. , Assistant to Dr. ANDERSON , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Glasgow .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received May 14 , 1856 .
In presenting a brief preliminary notice of an investigation of the substances obtained by distilling boghead coal at low temperatures , I may observe that I was induced to undertake it from remarking the low density of the naphtha produced in the process ; it being only *750 at 60 ?
F. , although its boiling-point , previous to the rectifications , was as high as 290 ?
F. After fifteen complete fractionations of the portion distilling below 310 ?
F. , boiling-points were obtained as low as 10 ?
, and it was found that the fluid could be separated , by careful treatment with fuming nitric , or a mixture of nitric and sulphuric acids , into two bodies , one forming a nitro-compound , the other being unacted on .
The latter was washed several times with a strong alkaline solution , and , after being digested for a few days with sticks of potash to remove adherent moisture , rectified over sodium .
In this manner I obtained a colourless and very mobile fluid with a pleasant odour , distantly resembling that of hawthorn blossoms .
Its density at 60 ?
was '725 .
I selected the fraction boiling in the fifteenth rectification at 240 ?
F. to make a preliminary experiment upon , and , after purification in the manner described , it gave in three perfectly concordant analyses , exactly the per-centage of carbon and hydrogen required for butyl ( valyl of Kolbe ) , the radical of the butylic alcohol .
Two determinations of the vapour density , taken respectively at 80 ?
and 107 ?
above its boiling-point , gave numbers closely coinciding with theory .
When it is considered that 68 ?
or more of difference of boilingpoint only cause a variation of 0'3 in the per-centage of carbon and hydrogen of bodies of this class , it becomes evident that if I had M taken the fraction boiling at 223 ?
( Wurtz ) or 226 ' ( Kolbe ) , it would have yielded the same results .
This point is now under examination .
The formula C'16 H18=4 vols .
, corresponds not only to butyl , but also to the hydruret of caprylyl , and , of course , both these bodies have the same vapour density ; but several circumstances lead me to believe the hydrocarbon I have obtained to be the radical of the butylic alcohol .
The density of the fluid , and the temperature at which it distils , are also rather in favour of this view .
It will be seen that 247 ?
F. should be the boiling-point of butyl if Frankland 's determination of that of amyl be correct , and Kopp 's law hold with these bodies .
A careful study of the papers already published on the radicals of this series , shows that more than one anomaly appears to exist in their physical properties , the gradations usually observed in homologous groups not being so distinctly marked as with most others , and this fact somewhat impedes their identification .
The large quantity of substance which becomes at our disposal from the source mentioned , will , by facilitating the study , throw light on these points .
I believe I shall be able to isolate at least four of the radicals , viz. propyl , butyl , amyl , and caprotyl , from the coal distillate .
The per-centage composition varying so little with the different homologues , I rely chiefly on vapour density and products of decomposition as the means of proving their presence .
The hydrocarbons accompanying the radicals are also quite distinct from the benzole series , as shown by the low density of the nitrocompound .
The latter is extremely difficult of reduction by sulphide of ammonium or protacetate of iron , but it furnishes a volatile oily alkaloid by distillation with an alcoholic solution of potash .
The tedious purifications and the numerous operations required before the substances can be obtained in a state of sufficient purity for analysis from the coal distillate , will probably cause a considerable period to elapse before a detailed account of all the bodies can be published .

