]\gt ; Messrs. G. F. C. Searle and T. G. Bedford .
The second view receives a certain amount of support from the fact that snch fusions are in other yeasts , e.g. , romyces Ludwigii ( Hans ) , but in these cases growth is active , and there does not seem to be any nuclear fusion .
Having regard to the behaviour of the nuclear contents and the subsequent formation of spores , the third view seems most likely .
Looking upon the process then as a sexual act of the simplest kind , in view of the fact that , while all its other characters accord with those of Saccharomyccs , it differs from the latter in the manner of its spore-formation , it is proposed to place it in a new genus , , on the analogy of the genus Schizo-saccharomyces , suggested by Beyerinck for the fission-yeasts .
" " The Measurement of netic Hysteresis By G. F. C. SEARLE , M.A. , and T. G. .
Communicated by 1rofessor J. J. , F.B.S. eceived May June 6 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) S1 .
In 1895 one of the authors described* a method of measuring hysteresis by observation of the throw of a ) allistic electro-dynamometer .
The method in its most elementary form is very simple .
An iron ring of section A and mean circumference is ulliformly woumd with Nl turns of primary wi1lding , and the primary current passes also the fixed coils of an electro-dynamometer .
A coil of turns on the ring is connected in series with the suspended coil of the dynamometer and an earth inductor , the total resistance of the circuit being S. The effects of self-induction in the secondnry being neglected , the sccondary current is An If the couplc acting on the suspcnded coil duc to the cnrrcnts bc ( , then instant Conple , qincc the otic force to is ncglcctc l. It the , the by the coil hilc C changcs from is .
F. C. of Loss of Encrgv in .
Phil. Soc. , ) ' ' vol. 9 , November , The Measurement of .
349 Now let the earth inductor ) inverted and induction , and let the current so producc a change of current at the time be , then If the throws which occur from to itnd fro1n to if bc the due to the earth ctor , then ' and thus for complete cycle , Thus the snm of the two throws ) is a ncrgy d in hysteresis complctc cyclc .
the ) , ctor of the been detcrmined , hystcrosis rapidly as measurements of induction S2 .
In developing more completc theory the mthors employ the equations NlAB the aid of the principle of the tion of , these equations to result Here is the specific resistance of thespccinlen , nnmcl i depending th the value or for of the section , ving The term is detcrmined the mometer t. The X is the energy in eddy currents in the specimen two semi-cycles , and is roughly the enel.gy spent in ting c secondary circuit .
It is shown by tions fwith .
S. key is employed to reversc the ront , X ) determined by making two ) tions for with two diffel e of the circuit , the ) the timo tdtered to produce the same ximum c , in case .
Messrs. G. F. C. Searle and T. G. Bedford .
This method of determining X has lately been used successfully at the Cavendish Laboratory by Mr. R. L. Wills in the case of specimens of large section .
In the authors ' experiments X was generaUy negligible .
As the corrections X and depend upon it is neccssary the primary current should change only gradually .
By inserting a choking coil of great self-induction in ths primary circuit , and by using key to cause the reversal of the current , this end is satisfnctorily attained .
The altthors have made many comparisons ) etween the values of found by their method and those calculated from the rens of cyclic B-H cnrves obtain ed by a ballistic nometer , and found satisfactory greement .
S3 .
By nsing ballistic galvanometor in addition to the dynamometer , the uthors were able to make ltaneous observations of the of the gnetic indnctio1l and of th ) energy dissip in each cycle .
The of the mttgnetic force was also observed .
It was that the cyclic B-H cve is not ] divided two of by the line .
The cffect is wcll rked in the case of an iron wire freshly annealed , and sometimcs does not disappcar in spitc of Vhcn the magnetic force is reversed many times both .
The effect is nlost })rent in soft freshly jccted tgnetic force .
Thus the limits of were , in the first cycle fter t .
In the forty-first cycle S4 .
an iron wire is stretched by a riable 1 is put through cycles with the linlits , the first pplic of the rebults in in both W. As the tcnslol inCl.eascs , laximtt then effcct is nlorc marked when is small thau when it is large .
Thus with of section cm a load of 16 kilos .
raised from 1233 to from 494 to 3820 , with A series of experiments upon the effects of torsion .
When is kept , as the torsiou there caso ) th .
Thus in the of soft wirc when sion v the stic linlil from to 1070 to 276 .
nrther , both and exhibit hysteresis with respcct to the torsio1l .
vere in which the torsion till the broke .
In other experime1lts the nthors studied the influence of llent t set upon the effects of cycles of tolsion .
They mined the developmeut of cyclic stale , .
cyclos of torsion , nent t set .
of netic Hyst .
351 In these experiments , the c.urves showing in term stress , ) a close reseml ) lance to those of the stress .
To this point , curves terms of the varies with is kept constnnt how the stress .
vnried varying For sion and torsion curve for a give1l of takes the form of a aight line hook end .
The sti'aight portions of the separate cul'ves for diffel .
of all , on , throngh a sllgle on the line .
Thus the are represented by ) ) .
ing gainst H it is thus the ecomes Where ( .
It is found that this formulesents 1 closely vaty ovel aconiderable in theneighl ) rhood of the ) ximnm p ility , the no free stress .
both B given lin]its showed the ) ected effect occurs , a curl.ent of lgh { virc mm. in diameter by per cenf .
S6 .
The alucs of the quaIltity hich o , in S2 , in the for the hent produced the currents in the specimen , in AppeIldix I for lods of both circnlar and S7 .
Iu inlents the nsed straight iron cm .
11 lcngth .
They ( Iiscns the eHect of the etising force duc to the dnced mgnetism of the specimen , to pply collcctions to the of the formula , where is the tetic foroc dnc to the cnrrent , trld B ' is the gnctic i the of the give of these Crcctions .
Appendix II imcn t fter muctic cyclcs limits cntl e of sig oppositc to of the polctlCC ltl Exchan .
exhibits very hysteresis with respect to and B. Over a part of the cyclic curve , the direction of is opposite to that corresponding to the direction of the induction at the centre of the wire .
The resuIts obtained show that the method of ' ' shearin \ldquo ; usually adopted to correct B-H ( jurves for the effects of the de-magnetising force must be used with great caution .
The paper is illustrated by diagrams of apparatus and by curves showing the experimental results .
" " Adjustment and ] in Monotremes and Marsupials.\mdash ; A Study in the Developnlent of Homothernlism By C. J. , D.Sc .
, Professor of in the University of Ielbourne .
Communicated by E. H. .
Received May June 6 , 19 ( Abstract .
) A .
of tions on the lel:tions etween the body temperature , the ture of the medium , on the respiratory in otremes and pials recorded .
The esults with those obtained in control experiments with c The conclusions ived at 1 .
Echidna is the vest in the of nimals .
Its nothermism fail to the of when the euvironment from to ) the cold weather , hibernates for four months , at this tinlc its temperittnre is only a few tenths of a degree abov of ndings .
The production of in is to differetlce ture b ollment .
At , it does not increase the cpth of its resl ) .
It possesses no veat gln1lds , ot loss of ) vnso-motor meant oi btll ) vesscls sponsc to 2 .
is .
Its tnre though 10 is .
It posscsses mdant love e he proction of Iic ) of nnlent citlt lnodify h-loss oduction .
of ts do ) ci .
of in exteIlt hy lcns .
less .
Thei ] ' ' in nnml ) es .

