THE BAKE RIAN LECTURE was delivered by JOHN W. DAWSON , LL. D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. , Principal and Vice-Chancellor of M'Gill College , Montreal , " On the Pre-Carboniferous Floras of North-Eastern America , with especial reference to that of the Erian ( Devonian ) Period .
" The following is an Abstract .
The attention of the author was first directed to the Devonian as distinguished from the Carboniferous flora by the discovery , on the part of Sir W. E. Logan , in 1843 , of some remarkable remains of plants in the Sandstones of Gasp , Canada .
In 1859 , after visiting Gasp to study these plants in situ , the author published descriptions of them , and more particularly of the two characteristic Lower-Devonian genera Prototaxites and Psilophyton , in the Journal of the Geological Society .
Subsequently additional material was obtained by personal investigation of the Devonian of Maine and New Brunswick , and , through the kindness of Prof. James Hall , from that of New York .
These additional plants were also published in the Journal of the Geological Society .
Still more recently , a thorough re-examination of the Gasp beds , the systematic exploration of the plant-bearing beds near St. John by Prof. IHartt , and fresh collections made by Prof. Hall have enabled the author to prepare a catalogue of 121 species , and to attempt a thorough revision of the Erian flora , and an investigation of its conditions of growth and relations to the Carboniferous flora .
The term " Erian " is applied to the formations included between the top of the Upper Silurian and the base of the Carboniferous , on account of the uncertainties which have attended the subdivision and limitation of the Devonian of Europe , and also on account of the immense area occupied by these beds on the south and west of Lake Erie , and their admirable development with regard to subdivisions and fossils .
The name " Erie Division " was also that originally applied to this typical series by the geologists of the Survey of New York .
A large part of the paper was occupied with the revision of the Erian flora , including the description of twenty-three new species , and more ample descriptions of others previously known only in fragments .
Large trunks of Prototaxites , from the base of the Lower Devonian , were described , and full details given of the form , structures , and fructification of two species of Psilophyton .
The new genus Ormnoxylon was described .
The genus Cyclostigma was noticed , as represented by two species in America , and its foliage and fruit described for the first time .
The genera of the Erian Ferns were examined and corrected , and several interesting trunks and stipes belonging to Tree-ferns were described .
The fruits of the genus Cardiocarpum were illustrated with reference to their structure .
The occurrence of Lepidophloios , Calamodendron , and other forms in the Middle Devonian was noticed for the first time .
The third part of the memoir was occupied with comparisons and general conclusions .
At the close of the Upper-Silurian period there was a great subsidence of the land in Eastern America , proved by the wide extent of the marine beds of the Lower Hlelderberg ( Ludlow ) group .
It was on the small areas of Lower-Silurian and Laurentian land remaining after this subsidence that the oldest land plants known in the region flourished .
Re-elevation occurred early in the Devonian period , and the known flora receives considerable extension in the shallow-water beds of the Lower Erian .
The subsidence indicated by the great Corniferous limestone interrupted these conditions on the west side of the Appalachians , but not on their eastern side .
At the close of this we find the rich Middle-Devonian flora , which diminishes toward the close of the period ; and , after the physical disturbances which on the east side of the Appalachians terminated the Erian age , it is followed by the meagre and quite dissimilar flora of the Lower Carboniferous ; and this , after the subsidence indicated by the Carboniferous limestone , is followed by the Coal-formation flora .
If we compare the Erian and Carboniferous floras , we find that the leading genera of the latter are represented in the former , but , for the most part , under distinct specific forms , that the Erian possesses some genera of its own , and that many Carboniferous genera have not yet been recognized in the Erian .
There is also great local diversity in the Erian flora , conveying the impression that the conditions affecting the growth of plants were more varied , and the facilities for migration of species less extensive , than in the Carboniferous .
In comparing the Erian flora of America with the Devonian of Europe , we meet with the difficulty that little is known of the plants of the Lower and Middle Devonian in Europe .
There are , however , specimens in the Museum of the Geological Survey which show , in connexion with facts which can be gleaned from the works of continental writers , that Psilophyton occupied the same important place in Europe which it did in America ; and in the Upper Devonian the generic forms are very similar , though the species are , for the most part , different .
In Eastern America no land flora is known below the Upper Silurian ; and even in that series the plants found are confined to the genus Psilophyton .
Independently , however , of the somewhat doubtful Lower-Silurian plants stated to have been found in Europe , there are indications , in the Lower-Erian flora , that it must have been the successor of a Silurian flora as yet almost unknown to us ; and the line of separation between this old flora and that of the Devonian proper seems to be at the base of the Middle Devonian .
In applying these facts and considerations to the questions relating to the introduction and extinction of species , and the actual relations of successive floras , it was proposed to compare what might be called specific types , -that is , forms which in any given period could not be rationally supposed to be genetically related .
Of such specific types , at least fifty may be reckoned in the Erian flora ; of these , only three or four are represented in the Carboniferous by identical species , while about one half are represented by allied species .
The remainder have no representatives .
A Table of specific types of the Erian was given , and its bearing shown on the questions above referred to ; and the hope was expressed that by separating such types from doubtful species and varietal forms , some progress might be made towards understanding , at least , the times and conditions in which specific types were introduced and perished , and the range of varietal forms through which they passed .

