P P Philos. Trans. No.386 .
Plate I. Z T Fig. 1 .
BLh Fig:2 .
HBM L I G VWGM l H EI QN OK R OS RAD F CE B Fig 3 .
Fig.4 B E 670 670 1577.54 1577.54 300 705.5 600 600 FADCGAF 1411 D 1411 A Dissertation concerning the Figure of the Earth , by the Reverend John Theophilus Desaguliers , LL. D. F. R. S. THAT the Earth ( that is , our Terraqueous Habitation ) is of a spherical Figure , or nearly such , has been proved so often , and by so many unanswerable Arguments , that to repeat them here must needs be tedious to this learned Society .
But , as a little Variation from a true Sphere ( besides the Irregularity of high Hills and deep Vallies ) does not hinder us from calling the Earth a Globe ; so , to determine what that Variation may be , since modern Philosophers are divided about it , may be a Subject not ungrateful at this Time .
Monsieur Cassini says : ` ` That the Earth is an oblong Spheroid , higher at the Poles than the AEquator , making the Axis longer than a Diameter of the AEquator about thirteen French Leagues , which he deduces from comparing his Father 's Measures of the Meridian , from Paris to the Pyrenaeean Mountains , with those of Monsieur Picard ; of which an Account may be seen in the Memoirs of the Royal Academy for 1713 .
But having afterwards continued the Meridian , which is drawn through France , from Paris to Dunkerque , he still draws Consequences to prove the Earth an oblong Spheroid ; but then makes the Axis exceed the AEquatorial Diameter 34 Leagues .
Sir Isaac Newton makes the Earth higher at the AEquator , and , consequently , flatted towards the Poles , reckoning its AEquatorial Diameter 34 English Miles longer than the Axis ; which he proves from the Principles of Gravity , and the Centrifugal Force that arises from the Diurnal Rotation of the Earth ; and , to confirm this , mentions several Experiments on Pendulums , which have been made shorter , to swing Seconds , near the AEquator , than in greater Latitudes .
' ' These are the two Opinions which have divided Philosophers , and which we propose to examine here .
Monsieur Cassini , taking the Measures above-men tion 'd to be exact enough , not only to determine the Magnitude of a Degree of the Earth , corresponding with a Degree of the great Circle of the Heavens , but also to show the Difference in the Degrees of the Earth ~ ( reckoning those , that were measured in the South of France , to exceed those towards the North , by a certain Number of Toises and Feet ) demonstrates , that if the Degrees of the Earth are longer towards the AEquator than the Poles , the Plane of the Meridian must be an Ellipse , whose long Axis is that of the Earth .
Here follows his first Demonstration .
[ See the French Memoirs for the Year 1713 ] Let BDCR* be an Ellipse that represents a Meridian of the Earth , whose Poles B and C are at Ends of the great Axis B C , and whose Foci E and F are taken at Pleasure .
Now , to divide this Ellipse into ` Degrees , that is , to find several Points H , I , V , such , that the Distance , from the Pole to the Zenith , of every one of them , shall be of any given Number of Degrees .
* Fig. 1 .
From E , one of the Foci of the Ellipse , draw the Line E T , so that it may , with the Axis B C , make the Angle BET equal to the Distance given from the Pole to the Zenith .
From the other Focus F , with the Distance BC equal to the Axis , draw an Arc , to cut the Line ET at T. I say , that the Line F T , drawn from the Point T to the Focus F , will cut the Ellipse at the Point H ; which Point is such , that the Distance of the Pole , from its Zenith , contains the given Number of Degrees .
DEMONSTRATIO N. From the Point H , raise H Z , perpendicular to the Ellipse which will pass through the Zenith Z ; and , being produced inwards , will meet the Axis of the Earth at O , and ( by the Property of the Ellipse ) divide the Angle EHF into two equal Parts .
From the Point H , draw likewise H P , parallel to the Axis B C , and directed to the Pole P , supposed at an infinite Distance .
The Angle PH Z , or PO Z , measures the Distance , from the Pole to the Zenith , of an Inhabitant dwelling upon the Earth at the Point H. FT is equal to the Axis B C , by Construction ; but , by the Property of the Ellipse , BC is equal to EH plus H F ; taking away from both F H , which is common , EH will remain equal to H T. The Angles ET H , TE H , will therefore be equal , and , consequently , each of them will be half of the external Angle EH F ; but the Angle EHO is likewise equal to half of the Angle EH F ; therefore the Angles TE H , EH O , will be equal to one another ; and , consequently , the Lines ET and HO will be parallel to one another ; and the Angle PO Z , which measures the Distance from the Pole to the Zenith of the Point H , will be equal to the Angle BE T , which was , by Construction , taken equal to the given Distance of the Pole from the Zenith ; which was to be demonstrated .
Now , if the Proportion of the longest Diameter of the Ellipse BC to E F , the Distance of the Foci , be taken at Pleasure , one may by Calculation find all the Points of the Ellipse as H , to determine the Degrees by this Analogy .
As F T , or B C : Is to E F : : So is the Sine of the Angle PET ( the given Distance from the Pole to the Zenith ) : To the Sine of the Angle ET F , or TE H : whose Quantity will consequently be known .
This Angle TEH being added to the Angle PE T , the given Distance from the Pole to the Zenith of the Point H , will give the Quantity of the Angle BE H , which a Line drawn from the Focus to H , the Point required , makes with the Axis of the Ellipse .
Then in the Triangle EH F , whose Side OF is known , as well as the Angle EH F , which is the Double of the Angle TE H , and the Angle FEH Supplement of the Angle BE H ; one shall have the Length of the Side E H , known in Parts of the Axis B C. After the same Manner , may be found the Angles BE I , BE V , &amp;c. and the Length of the Lines E I , E V , to determine the Distance , from the Pole to the Zenith , of all the Degrees of the Circumference of the Earth ; and in the rectilinear Triangles HE I , IE V , whose Sides H E , E I , E V , are known as well as the Angles comprehended between the Sides H E , E I , I E , E V , which are the Differences of the Angles BE H , BE I , BE V , determined above ; one shall find the Length of the Chords H I , I V , comprehended between each Degree .
Mons. Cassini , in the Memoirs for the Year 1718 , repeats the same Demonstration ; except that , before it , he shows , that if several Points be taken upon a Terrestrial Meridian , on the Surface of an Elliptic Earth , as G , H , I , K , * in such Manner , that their respective Zeniths Z , L , M , N , are distant from one another , an equal Number of Degrees measured in a Celestial Meridian .
The Lines Z G , L H , M I , NK ( which are perpendicular to the Ellipse ) being produced , will meet in the Points O , R , and S , making equal Angles ; but as those angular Points are not equally distant from the Curve of the Ellipse , that Elliptic Arc must be the longest whose angular Point is farthest off .
Now , by the former Demonstration , it appears , that those Arcs , which are taken nearest to the lesser Axis , will have their angular Points farther removed , &amp;c. If Mons. Cassini 's Measures of Terrestrial Degrees , decreasing from the AEquator towards the Pole , were grounded on Observations liable to no Error , he wou 'd have fully proved his Figure of the Earth .
But since those Measures ( however accurately taken ) are not built upon a mathematical Certainty , his Premises may be called in Question , and his Conclusion , tho ' mathematically drawn from these Premises , is only probable .
Now therefore , if I can show from undoubted Phenomenon , that his Conclusion will lead to an Absurdity , his Measures must be false ; because his Reasoning from them is just .
This I shall endeavour to do first , which will disprove his Figure of the Earth ; and afterwards endeavour to point out some of the Errors which I I suppose to have occasioned the Mistake in the Measures .
Mons. Cassini , as well as the English Astronomers , believes that the Earth makes one Revolution about its Axis , once in 23 Hours 56~ , because in that Time , the Plane of any Meridian returns to the same fixed Star from which it had departed .
Let *H be taken in any Parallel of Latitude , as for Example , in the Latitude of 51 ~ 46~ , a Plumb Line , L H , will be perpendicular to the Curve B H , at H , and produced pass thro ' the Zenith of the Point H , if the Earth had no Diurnal Rotation ; but since the Earth moves round its Axis , all Bodies upon its Surface , endeavour to fly from the Axis of their Motion with a Force proportionable to their Distance from it in a Direction along the Plane of that Parallel , in which they are .
Let that Force ( explained by Mons. Huygens , and called a Centrifugal Force ) be represented by the Line H l , or its Equal and Parallel L h ; now a Plummet placed at L , if the Earth stood still , would descend in the Line L H , but as it is at the same Time acted upon by the Force Hl in the Direction L h , it will move in the Direction Ll Diagonal of the Parallelogram H l , according to the known Laws of Mechanicks ; and the Plumb Line L H , instead of being perpendicular to the Curve at H , will in the Latitude 51 ~ 46~ make an Angle of 5~ with H L. This Angle will be less towards the Poles , till at the very Pole it quite vanishes , as it also does at the AEquator .
The Demonstration of the Quantity of this Angle , I shall give before I end this Dissertation .
Now since there is no such Angle observed , but in all .
Water Levels we find the Plumb Line always perpendicular to the Line of Level , the Surface Surface of the Earth must be depressed towards G , and rise farther from the Axis towards I , in order to become perpendicular ( that is , to have its Tangent perpendicular ) to the Line L l , in which we have shown that the Plumb Line must descend .
If there is any Body so fond of Monsieur Cassini 's Hypothesis , as to deny the Diurnal Motion of the Earth for the sake of it , I hope they will be convinced , when I show the Measures , upon which it is founded , to be insufficient for determining the different Lengths of the Degrees of a Terrestrial Meridian .
But here I would not be thought to endeavour to lessen the Praise due to the Gentlemen of the Royal Academy , for carrying on a Meridian the whole Length of France , from Dunkerque thro ' the Royal Observatory at Paris , quite to the Pyrenaean Mountains on the Borders of Spain .
Astronomy and Geography are doubtless much indebted to the Encouragement given by the French Government , and to the Care of their Mathematicians , who have omitted no proper Method for drawing their Meridian , and correcting it as they went on .
So many Observations of the rising and setting Sun , so many equal Altitudes of the same Stars accurately taken , so many Digressions of Stars , so many other Observations made with the Telescope and good Pendulum-Clocks all compared together , for the true settling of the direct Way of this famous Meridian , leave no Doubt but that it is as perfect as the Nature of the Thing is capable of .
And , certainly , by the Help of this Line , and the several Triangles made use of for carrying it on , a better Map of France is made , than has ever been of any Country before : Nay , besides , I believe we may , at a Medium , very well receive their Number of 57060 , or 57061 Toises , for the Measure of a Degree of a Meridian of the Earth , one with another .
But to say , that those Gentlemen cou 'd observe the Latitude so nicely , as to find a Difference in the Length of the Terrestrial Degrees , and that only of eleven or twelve Toises , ( when they made it the least ) or of thirty-one Toises , ( when they made it the most ) is attributing to them an Exactness , so far beyond the Nature of the Instruments which they made use of , that it wou 'd be rather a Dispraise than a Commendation to insist upon it .
For in the first Place , the Instrument , with which they took Observations for the Latitude at the two Ends of their Meridian , was a ten Foot Sector ( which was worse than that which Mons. Picard had made Use of before , because the Telescope of his Sector was of ten Foot , whereas Mons. Cassini 's was but of three Foot , tho ' applied to the ten Foot Sector ) where the two hundreth Part of an Inch answers to eight Seconds of a Degree : Now the two hundredth Part of an Inch , being one of the least visible Parts that we can see in a divided Line ; they could not take an Angle nearer than that ; nay , their Instrument , according to their own Description of it , was divided but to every twenty Seconds .
Now they allow , that sixteen Toises , upon the Surface of the Earth , answer to one Second in the Heavens ; and they do n't pretend to have taken an Observation nearer than to about three Seconds , which therefore cannot determine a Difference less than forty eight Toises ; whereas the Degrees are only supposed to decrease at most , thirty one Toises each , from Collioure to Dunkerque .
But an Error of eight Seconds wou 'd make a Difference of one hundred and twenty eight Toises , on the Surface of the Earth ; above ten Times greater than the Difference of Degrees in the first Supposition , and four Times greater than that Difference in the last .
Besides , the Latitude was not observed in the intermediate Places between Paris , and Collioure , with the abovemention 'd Instrument of ten Foot Radius ; but they made Use of a Quadrant , whose Radius was only thirty nine Inches , and sometimes an Octant of three Foot Radius .
Nay , they say themselves , in their Account , that it is not the Observations made at the Ends of the Meridian , that we are to deduce the Difference of the Length of a Degree from , but the Altitudes taken at several Places between the Extremes ; and , if we grant , that they can take an Angle very well , to four or five Seconds , with the great Instrument , they cannot come nearer than twelve or fifteen Seconds , with the Quadrant or Octant , which we must depend upon for the Difference of the Measure of Degrees : So that upon the whole , we are to determine a Length of thirty one Toises , by an Instrument which is liable to err above two hundred .
If any Consequences of this Kind cou 'd be drawn from actual measuring , a Degree of Latitude shou 'd be measured at the AEquator , and a Degree of Longitude likewise measured there ; and a Degree very northerly , as for Example , a whole Degree might be actually measured upon the Baltic Sea , when frozen , in the Latitude of sixty Degrees .
There , according to Mons. Cassini 's last Supposition , a Degree wou 'd be of 56653 Toises , whereas , at the AEquator , it wou 'd be of 58019 Toises , the Difference being 1364 Toises , about the two and fortieth Part of a Degree , which must be sensible ; and likewise the Degree of Longitude wou 'd , according to him , be of 56817 Toises , less by 1202 , or the forty eighth Part , than a Degree of Latitude at the same Place .
But here it may be objected , that tho ' the Latitude was not taken with the ten Foot Sector , in the intermediate Places between Paris and Collioure , yet the Latitude was taken with that Instrument at Dunkerque , Paris , and Collioure , and therefore the southern Part of the Meridian , containing 6~ 18~ 56~ may be compared with the northern Part of it , which contains 2~ 12~ 16~ ; and that the former appears to contain more Toises , in Proportion to the Difference of Latitude at its Extremities , than the latter .
To this may be answered , that , even in this Case , the Observations made cannot be nice enough to determine the Difference of the Length of Degrees ; but there is another Error , which might considerably mislead the French Gentlemen , and make the Degrees appear longer in the South of France ; that is , the Error in taking the true Height of several Mountains in Auvergne , Languedoc , and among the Pyraeneans , For if they have allow 'd too much for the Air 's Refraction ( which , by the Observations of Travellers , is greater towards the northern Regions , and diminishes as we go Southward ) the Heights of those Mountains will be taken too little , and their Bases consequently longer , which will make the Degrees appear bigger than they are .
Let ABC D , * for Example , be a Mountain , as the Mountain of Rodez , in the Latitude of 44~ 21~ , whose Height BD is 300 Toises , and whose Sides AB and BC ( supposed to make an Angle of 26~ 33~ , with the Horizon ) are found by Trigonometry , to be of 670 8 Toises each ; if by a Mistake , in taking the Height , it be supposed only equal to E D , or 257 Toises , then the Lines AB and BC will become OF and E G ; so that the Base A C , which before was of 1200 Toises , will become equal to F G , which will appear to be 1279 , 6 Toises , by Eucl .
47 .
1 .
Now one such Mistake , in one Degree , will give a Difference above twice as great as the supposed Difference rence of Degrees in that Latitude , which they make of 31 Toises .
And that there was a Mistake of this Kind in taking the Height of that Mountain , I shall show .
The Vapours , that generally float in the Air about the Tops of high Hills , make it so difficult to take their Height exactly , that Experiments , made with the Barometer , will , by observing the Fall of the Mercury , show the Height nearer than any Thing else we know of .
There were , indeed , several Experiments made with the Barometer , *where the Differences of the Height of the Mercury , from the Heights at which it stood at the Royal Observatory , are said to answer to so many Toises ; but of nine Observations mentioned by Mons. Cassini , there are not two where the Number of Toises , said to correspond to the Heights of the Barometer , do agree together .
The first Experiment of the Barometer there mentioned , made at Collioure , was this , ` ` At the Height of 11 1/ 2 Toises above the Sea , the Barometer was set up , and the Mercury stood 3 1/ 3 Lines higher than at the Royal Observatory ( in the Tower of the eastern Hall ) at the same Time ; and therefore , since that Tower is 44 Toises higher than the Sea , 3~ Lines of Mercury must answer to 32 1/ 2 Toises .
Now , reducing these Toises to Feet , and dividing by 3 1/ 3 it will appear that an Height of 58,5 Feet will answer to the Fall of one Line of Mercury in the Barometer .
Let this be taken as the Standard , and the other Observations be compared with it .
This may be done by the following Table , where the first Column shows the Place where the Observation was made ; the second , the Fall or Rise of Mercury at each Place expressed in Lines , or 12th Parts of a French Inch ; the Hh2 third , * Mem. of the Royal Academy , for 1718 , ch .
10 .
third , the Heights or Depths answering to those Lines of Mercury , which , in the Memoirs , are given in Toises , but here reduced to Feet ; the fourth , the Number of Feet answering to one Line of Mercury in each Observation , which is the Quotient of the Feet in the third Column , divided by the Number of Lines in the Second .
Said to correThe Fall of one Line Observations of the BaroLines of spond with of Mercury ameter made at Mercury .
Feet .
swers to Feet .
I. Collioure 03 1/ 3 195 58,5 II .
The Tower of Massane .
31 2382 76,8 III .
Bugarac 42 3636 86,5 IV .
Rupeyroux 30 2181 72,7 V. Rodez 24 1647 68,6 VI .
Rodez 20 1425 71,25 VII .
Courlande 54 4812 89,1 VIII .
Cost 54 4890 92,4 IX .
Clermont 03 200 66,6 A Sight of this Table will convince any one , that these Observations are not to be depended upon for determining the Height of the Mountains in the South of France ; for the Differences are not small , such as might happen in making the Experiments ; but such as render the Observations useless for the Purposes abovemention 'd .
For Example , the first and the seventh differ almost ~ : And if 58,5 Feet were allow 'd for the Fall of one Line of Mercury in the seventh Observation , instead of 944 Feet , then the Mountain of Cost would be but 3085 Feet , instead of 4890 .
Nay , upon examining the Memoirs , I find that in several Observations the Number of Toises , said to correspond to a certain Height of Mercury , are only answerable to the Height of the Mountain above the Level of the Sea found by Trigonometry , from which the Height of the Royal Observatory , above the Sea , is substracted ; though , by the Manner of the Expression , a cursory Reader would imagine , that the Number of Toises named , was always proportionable to the Fall of the Mercury , and think all the Experiments and Observations very accurately made , when they seem to agree so well in every Respect .
Now after all , I do not question but that the Height of the Barometer , might be as it is set down in the Memoirs , and well enough observed ; but it was wrong to compare the Height of the Mercury in the South of France , with the Height that the Mercury was at in the Barometer of the Royal Observatory at the same Time ; for , at that great Distance and Difference of Latitude , the Weather ( and consequently the Pressure of the Air and Height of the Barometer at the same Level ) might very much vary .
Even when there is fair Weather all over France , it does not follow that the Barometer shall stand at the same Height .
Let us suppose , for Example , that a North Wind blows : Where-ever the Air is checked by a Chain of Mountains that run East and West , it will be accumulated over those Mountains , and consequently press more as its Columns are higher ; which will make the Mercury rise higher than it wou 'd do with the same Wind , if there were no Mountains , or if they ran North and South .
The Way , to have made the Experiments with the Barometer exactly , wou 'd have been to have observed the Height of the Mercury at the Bottom and at the Top of the Mountain , and that with a Tube of a pretty large Bore ( with a proportionably large Cistern for the stagnant Mercury ) because , in a small Tube , the Mercury will often stick to the Sides , and rise irregularly , as it will also in inclined Barometers .
Simple Barometers are the best , and a magnifying Glass may be made use of to observe small Rises or Falls , having two fine and well made Indices to the Tube .
Dr. Edmund Halley , our Royal Astronomer , has , some Years ago , given us , in the Philosophical Transactions , the Falls of Mercury in the Barometer , corresponding with the Heights to which the Barometer must be carried to produce those Falls .
The first tenth Part of an Inch in the Fall of the Mercury , he makes to answer to an Height of 90 Feet ; the next tenth , to an Height something greater , and so in Proportion , as the Air diminishes in Density , according as we rise in Height .
The Proportion of the first Tenth of the Mercury 's Fall , he has built upon the Comparison of the different Specific Gravities of Air and Mercury ; and taking Mercury to be 13 1/ 2 Times heavier than Water , and Water ( in cold Weather ) to be 800 Times heavier than Air ; it follows , that 13 , 5~800 , will give 10800 ; which Number , if it be taken in Feet , and divided by 120 ( the Number of the 10th of an Inch in a Foot ) we shall have 90 Feet answerable to the 10th of an Inch , and 75 Feet to a Line or the 12th Part of an Inch .
As the Doctor 's Tables may be of use to the Curious , I have inserted them here .
I. ATABLE showing the Altitude , to given Heights of the Mercury .
Inches .
30 0 Feet .
29 915 28 1862 27 2844 26 3863 25 4922 20 10947 15 18715 10 29662 5 48378 1 91831 0 .
5 110547 0 .
25 129262 0 .
1 29 Miles or 154000 0 .
01 41 Miles or 216169 0 .
001 53 Miles or 278338 II .
ATABLE showing the Heights of the Mercury , at given Altitudes .
Feet .
0 30 00 Inches and Tenths .
1000 28 91 2000 27 86 3000 26 85 4000 25 87 5000 24 93 1 Mile 24 67 2 20 29 3 16 68 4 13 72 5 11 28 10 4 24 15 1 60 20 0 95 25 0 23 30 0 08 40 0 012 Now , as very few Mountains in the World are 3 Miles high , and , generally speaking , those that we look upon as high Hills , ( except the Andes , and some others in America ) are not much above a Mile high ; we may , for finding the Height of Mountains , take a fixed Number of Feet in Altitude to answer to every 10th or 12th of an Inch in the Fall of the Mercury ; because 90 Feet are by Dr. Halley only taken for the first Tenth , and greater Heights for other Tenths , increasing with the Fall of the Mercury .
Therefore I wou 'd propose another for a round Number , namely 96 Feet for every Tenth , and 80 Feet for every 12th of an Inch , very near the Number that I have found by my Calculation , which is Fine Mercury ( such as is made use of in Barometers ) is , generally speaking , 13 2/ 3 times heavier than Water ; and , I found some brought from the East-Indies , to be 14 times heavier .
I have found Air in Summer , to be near 900 times lighter than Water ; and 800 times in Winter ; therefore I take 850 at a Medium .
Now 850 ~ 13 2/ 3 = 11606,6 , which , divided by 120 , gives 96,7 Feet , for 1/ 10 of an Inch of Mercury , or 80,5 Feet for 1/ 12 of an Inch .
This Number , taken invariable , will , in taking the Height of several Hills , agree pretty well with the Numbers that come out , when Dr. Halley 's Table is made use of ; and with the Experiment made by the late Professor , Mr. J. Caswell , who , having taken the Height of Snowdon Hill in Caernarvanshire very accurately , and finding it to be 3720 Feet above the Level of the Sea , tried how much lower the Mercury wou 'd stand in the Barometer upon that Hill , than at the Level of the Sea , and observed it to subside 39 Inches .
I am sensible that it will be alleged , that the Air will be denser than I may imagine on the Top of high Hills , because of the great Cold , since they are generally covered with Snow ; but then we are to consider , that when we are got above a Mile higher than the Level of the Sea , the incumbent Atmosphere has lost almost a 5th Part of its Weight * ; and therefore the Air at the Top of the Hill , being so much less pressed , will , notwithstanding the intense Cold , be more rarefied than at the Bottom of the Hill .
* If the whole Air was reduced to the same Density , as it is near the Level of the Sea , the Atmosphere wou 'd be but between five and six Miles high ; whereas , in its present State of gradual Rarefaction , it is above 50 Miles high , as we find by several Phenomenon of Meteors observed to float in the Air , so high at least .
Now if we go back to the Observations of the Barometer , made by the Gentlemen that drew the Meridian in France , we shall find , that on the Mountain of Rhodez , in the Latitude of 44~ , 21~ the Barometer fell 24 Lines below the Level of that in the Observatory , and they allow 'd only 2741/ 2 Toises to correspond to that Fall ; whereas , according to Dr. Halley 's Proportion of a Tenth of an Inch for 90 Feet , they shou 'd have taken 300 Toises ; and tho ' the Hypotenuses A B , and B C , * were taken longer than the bare Declivity of the Mountain ( which wou 'd make the Error less than the 79 Toises I mentioned above ) yet if my Proportion be made use of , viz. of 80 Feet for each Line of Mercury , that will make the Mountain 320 Toises , which , being higher , will therefore show the Base to be yet shorter , and consequently the Error , at that Rate , will be greater .
This Error ( and such like , if any more were made ) will increase the Measure of the 44th Degree of Latitude on the Earth ; and , by observing what was done in the next Degree , we shall find that that Degree was taken too short .
In the Latitude of 45~ , 38~ , the Mountain of Cost is made 815 Toises high ; whereas the 54 Lines of the falling Mercury in the Barometer , said to answer to that Height , will give but 705,6 Toises ( which we will call 705,5 ) even according to my Computation of 80 Feet to a Line , which is the greatest Allowance .
If we suppose this Mountain to rise in an Angle of 26~ , 33~ , as we did that of Rhodez , the Sides of the Mountain , or Hypotenuses A B , and B C , ~ will be each equal to 1577,54 Toises , and the whole Base A C , to 2822 Toises .
Now , when the Height of this Mountain is called 815 Toises , the Base A D , or DC ( by * Fig. III .
~ Fig. IV .
( by Eucl .
47 .
1 .
) becomes only equal to FD or DG= 1350,7 Toises ; and its Double , or FG the whole Base , will be but 2701,4 Toises , less than the former by 120,6 Toises .
This Error is so great ( so much more than the Difference of 31 Toises for a Degree ) that tho ' I supposed the Lines found by Trigonometry , which terminate at the Top of the Mountain , to be much longer than the Hypotenuse A B , yet there will be Error enough to make the 45th Degree of Latitude appear much shorter than it is .
Supposing ( because of the Length of the Lines A B , or the great Distance from which the Mountain might be observed ) that these Errors were four times less than I made them ; yet , at that Rate , one must add near 20 Toises to the 44th Degree of Latitude , and take away above 30 from the 45th Degree , which will make the 44th of 57080 Toises , and the 45th , of only 57030 ; and this will give a Difference of 50 Toises ; so that if an Angle can be taken to two or three Seconds , to which 32 , or 48 Toises , are said to answer upon the Surface of the Earth , such a Difference might be visible .
And much more so , if other Errors of the same Kind shou 'd happen to have been made the same Way ; or if those Errors were nearer my first Supposition than this last .
Nay , tho ' the 45th Degree of Latitude may be 13 Toises bigger than the 44th , it might by this Means appear to be considerably less .
Such a Mistake might be the Occasion of making the Hypothesis of the Earth being an oblong Spheroid , especially because in this Hypothesis , the Degrees , differ most in Length from one another about the 45th Degree ; and , when once an Hypothesis is set on Foot , we are too apt to draw in Circumstances to confirm it ; tho ' , perhaps , when examined impartially , they may rather weaken , than strengthen our Hypothesis ; otherwise , the Author of the History of the Royal Academy , for the 1713 , wou 'd not have alleged , that the late Mons. Cassini observed Jupiter to be oval , as a Proof of young Mons. Cassini 's Hypothesis ; because Jupiter is oval the other Way , that is , an oblate Spheroid flatted at the Poles , as the said late Mons. Cassini gave the Proportion of the Axis , to the AEquatorial Diameter , to be as 15 to 16 .
And our late ingenious Astronomer , the Reverend Mr. Pound , with a Telescope of 123 Foot Focus , and an excellent Micrometer , has given those Proportions as 11 to 12 .
If a Proof is to be drawn from Analogy , or what is observed in other Planets , this must destroy Mons. Cassini 's Hypothesis , and confirm Sir Isaac Newton 's .
The Opinion of Dr. Burnet ( the Theorist ) quoted in the Memoirs , for the Year 1713 , is but a very weak Argument in favour of Mons. Cassini 's Hypothesis , on Account of the Reason Dr. Burnet gave , to prove the Earth higher at the Poles , than the AEquator ; for he says , ` ` That the Velocity of the Parts of the Earth , in its Diurnal Rotation , being greater at the AEquator than towards the Poles , all the Water must be driven towards the AEquatorial Regions ; from whence , being repelled by the Resistance of the Air , it must run off again towards the Poles ; and so the Figure of the Water was lengthened out into an oblong Spheroid , and consequently the Crust of the Earth over it did put on the same Figure , &amp;c. But why the Air shou 'd resist more towards the AEquator than the Poles , the Doctor did not give any Reason to show ; and , if it had been , so , the same Force , that drove the Water towards the AEquator , must have kept it there .
The Doctor , in the latter Part of his Assertion , forgot what he had said in the former ; for the Water cou 'd not run off towards the Poles , whilst the Earth continued its Rotation with the same Velocity .
For if he had considered , he wou 'd have found his Argument in other Words to be this .
Because Bodies , that move in a Circle , always endeavour to recede from the Axis of their Motion ; therefore the Water , by that Endeavour , comes nearer to the Axis of its Motion ; which is absurd .
But Dr. Burnet , afterwards , altered his Opinion , as I am credibly informed .
Having thus given my Reasons for disapproving of Mons. Cassini 's Opinion , concerning the Figure of the Earth ; I come now to consider Sir Isaac Newton 's , who makes it higher at the AEquator , than at the Poles ; but before I enter upon it , I beg Leave to quote a Pararagraph out of the History of the Royal Academy for 1713 .
These are the Words of the Author .
` ` Reasonings drawn from the different Lengths of a Pendulum in different Climates , or from the Inequality of the Centrifugal Force arising from the Diurnal ` Motion of the Earth , are , perhaps , too nice to produce a certain Conviction ; nay , perhaps , we are not well enough assured of the Principles , and the Consequences may sometimes be different .
And therefore it is evident , that the best Way in this Enquiry , is only ( as Mons. Cassini does ) to make use of unquestioned Observations , which serve directly to decide the Question .
That Mons. Cassini has not made use of unquestioned Observations , and the Measures , he mentions , are not able to decide the Question , appears from what I have already said .
We must therefore show , whether the Principles , from which Sir Isaac Newton has deduced his Figure of the Earth , are fully proved or not : Whether the Conclusion drawn from them is plain and evident ; and whether the Experiments on Pendulums , that confirm the Theory , are easy to be made , and may be depended upon .
Tho ' Sir Isaac Newton , in his Principia , has not endeavoured to give the Cause of Gravity , or to determine whether it be owing to an Impulse or not ; yet he has shown what its Effects and Laws are , from plain Experiments made by others and himself .
From the Laws of Gravity , and from the Observation of a Comet , * he has deduced the Annual Motion of the Earth ; and it must have a Diurnal Motion , if it has an Annual one , otherwise , it will not agree with the Phenomenon .
The Laws of the Centrifugal Force , or that Force by which a Body , whirled round in any Circle , endeavours to recede from the Center of its Motion , have been demonstrated by Mons. Huygens .
These are the Principles from which Sir Isaac Newton draws his Conclusion ; and tho ' some Persons , that will not be at the Pains to examine them , may deny them by the Lump , yet no Body has yet been able to show any Flaw in the Demonstrations that relate to them .
NB .
This Dissertation will be continued in our next .
* Princip .
Lib. 3 .
Prop. 12 , 13 , &amp; 42 .

