On the Composition of the Compound Sulphuret from Huel Boys , and an Account of its Crystals .
By James Smithson , Esq. F.R.S. Read January 28 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 55 .
] Mr. Smithson gives a particular description of the form of the sulphuret of lead , antimony , and copper , because that which was laid before the Society in 1804 appeared to him materially inaccurate and imperfect ; and he further offers some observations upon Mr. Hatchett 's experiments , which he deems essentially necessary to our rightly understanding this substance , as well as many other chemical compounds to which the same principles extend .
The author conceives it not to be probable that this ore is a direct quadruple combination of the three metals , lead , antimony , and copper , with sulphur ; but thinks it much more credible that it consists of the three sulphurets of these metals .
On this presumption he makes experiments , to determine the proportion of these sulphurets to each other ; and since 10 grains of galena produce 12 ' sulphate of lead , he thence infers the quantity of galena indicated by 60 19 grains of sulphate of lead , obtained by Mr. Hatchett .
So also with respect to sulphate of antimony ; as 10 grains yield 11 of precipitate from muriatic acid by water , he is enabled to determine the quantity of sulphuret of antimony , corresponding to Mr. Hatchett 's precipitate of 28-64 grains .
With respect to sulphate of copper , his method is not so direct ; for as he had none of this sulphuret on which to make experiments , he only presumes that the remainder of the ore consists of this compound ; and hence he obtains the following results : sulphuret of lead , 49-7 ; sulphuret of antimony , 29-6 ; sulphuret of copper , 20 7 .
From the near agreement of these numbers with the simple proportions of 50 , 30 , and 20 , he thinks it no great violation of probability , to suppose that experiments affected with no error would , in fact , have given these integral results instead of the former decimal parts .
Mr. Smithson proceeds further to express his doubts , not only of the existence of quadruple , but even of strictly triple compounds .
He believes that all combination whatever is binary , and is inclined to consider the present compound as consisting of equal parts of galena and fahlertz ; the latter being also a binary compound of the sulphurets of antimony and of copper , in the proportion of three of the former to two of the latter .
The author next computes the proportion of the four ultimate elements ; and these , being deduced from assumed simple fractions , are simply as the numbers 1.2 , 25 , 15 , and 8 .
These , he remarks , are sexagesimal parts of this ore , as were those also which in a former paper he assigned to calamine .
When in that communication he offered a system founded on the results of his own experiments , he is apprehensive that he may have been supposed to be influenced , even unconsciously to himself , by a favourite theory ; but the present case he thinks not liable to the same objection , since no fondness for theory affected the experiments of Mr. Hatchett , which nevertheless accord with its principles when viewed in a proper light .
Mr. Smithson , conceiving it established that chemical compounds consist of elements united in simple proportions by weight , observes , that greater accuracy is to be expected from correct theory than can be obtained in chemical experiments .
The principles of his theory require that simple ratios should always obtain in binary compounds ; and he gives instances from the subjects of the foregoing experiments , which any chemist can , by careful repetition , confirm .
The ratios which he assigns to the compounds of lead are such , that two parts of lead make three of sulphate of lead , and five of lead make six of sulphate of lead .
So also five of antimony make six of sulphuret , and three of antimony make four of powder of algaroth .
From the only crystalline form which Mr. Smithson believes to exist of the triple sulphuret , he infers that its primitive form is a cube , and not a tetrahedral prism , as stated by Count Bournon ; and he observes , that the angles given by the Count are at variance with each other .

