3 .
" An Experimental Inquiry undertaken with the view of ascertaining whether any , and what signs of current Force are manifested during the organic process of Secretion in living animals " ( continued ) .
By H. F. Baxter , Esq , Communicated by R. B. Todd , M. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 30 , 1852 .
The present communication is a continuation of a series of experiments , the first part of which was published in the Phil. Trans. for the year 1848 .
The object is to show that the changes which occur during the organic process of secretion in : living animals are accompanied with the manifestation of currentforce ; and the principal facts upon which this conclusion is founded are the following:1st .
It was found that when the electrodes of a galvanometer are brought into contact with the secreted product and the venous blood flowing from the same organ , an effect upon the needle is produced , indicating the venous blood to be positive .
This fact was established in the liver , kidneys and mammary gland .
2ndly .
The effect could not be referred to the heterogeneity of the fluids without assumingthat the blood was acid and combined with the secreted product ; nor could it bc referred entirely to thermoelectric effects , inasmuch as the current varied in each organ , and was capable of traversing a liquid conductor .
The effects , however , may be partly due to catalytic actions on the combining power of platinum ' ; and this last supposition tended to confirm the opinion originally entertained by Wollaston , that the changes ' which occur during secretiun are analogous to those which take place in the decomposing cell of a voltaic circle .
Without giving any definite opinion as to the lungs performing the office of a secreting organ , it was found , that when one electrode was in contact with the mucous surface , and the other in contact with the blood in the pulmonary veins , an effect occarred upon the needle .
indicating the blood ( arterial ) to be positive .
This fact appears to afford some explanation of the failures of Muller , Pouillet and of the author in his early attempts to obtain evidence of current force being manifested when a circuit was formed between an artery and a vein in the living animal .

