176 Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
[ Feb. 27 , M. Pisani has ascertained that the variety from Montebras yields :\#151 ; Fluorine ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2 " 27 Phosphoric acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
34-30 Alumina ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
38-25 Water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 26-60 Specific gravity 101-42 2-33 February 27 , 1873 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communication was read:\#151 ; \#171 ; On Leaf-Arrangement .
" By Hubert Airy , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Charles Darwin , F.B.S. Received January 21 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) Assuming , as generally known , the main facts of leaf-arrangement , \#151 ; the division into the whorled and spiral types , and in the latter more especially the establishment of the convergent series of fractions , S , f , S , f\#165 ; , j8t , |f , 1-1 |f , t\6t , \amp ; c. , as representatives of a corresponding series of spiral leaf-orders among plants , \#151 ; we have to ask , what is the meaning that lies hidden in this law ?
Mr. Darwin has taught us to regard the different species of plants as descended from some common ancestor ; and therefore we must suppose that the different leaf-orders now existing have been derived by different degrees of modification from some common ancestral leaf-order .
One spiral order may be made to pass into another by a twist of the axis that carries the leaves .
This fact indicates the way in which all the spiral orders may have been derived from one original order , namely by means of different degrees of twist in the axis .
We naturally look to the simplest of existing leaf-orders , the two-ranked alternate order f , as standing nearest to the original ; for it is manifest that the orders at the other extreme of the series ( the condensed arrangement of scales on fir-cones , of florets in heads of Composite , of leaves in close-lying plantains , \amp ; c. ) are special and highly developed instances , to meet special needs of protection and congregation : they are , without doubt , the latest feat of phyllotactic development ; and we may be sure that the course of change has been from the simple to the complex , not the reverse .
This point will be illustrated by experiment below .
1873 .
] Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
But first , what are the uses of these orders ?
and at what period of the leaf 's life does the advantage of leaf-order operate ?
The period must be that at which the leaf-order is most perfect : not , therefore , when the twig is mature , with long internodes between the leaves , but while the twig and its leaves are yet in the bucl ; for it is in the bud ( and similar crowded forms ) that the leaf-order is in perfection , undisturbed by contortions or inequalities of growth ; but , as the bud developes into the twig , the leaves become separated , the stem often gets a twist , the leafstalks are curved and wrung to present the blades favourably to the light , and thus the leaf-order that was perfect in the bud is disguised in the grown twig .
In lateral sh oots of yew and box and silver fir we see how leaves will get their stalks twisted to obtain more favourable exposure to light ; and if general distribution round the stem were useful to the adult leaves , we should expect the leaves of a vertical eZm-shoot ( for example ) to secure such distribution by various twists of stalk and stem ; but the leaf-blades of the elm keep their two ranks with very great regularity .
This goes to show that it is not in the mature twig that the leaf-order is specially advantageous .
In the bud we see at once what must be the use of leaf-order .
It is for economy of space , whereby the bud is enabled to retire into itself and present the least surface to outward danger and vicissitudes of temperature .
The fact that the order \ does not exhibit this advantage in any marked degree , supports the idea that this order is the original from which all the more complex spiral orders have been derived .
The long duration of the bud-life as compared with the open-air life of the leaf gives importance to the conditions of the former .
The open-air life of the bud is twelve months , and adding the embryo life of the bud , we have about a year and a half for the whole life of the bud ; and for the twelve months of its open-air life it is in a state of siege , against which a compact arrangement of its embryo-leaves within must be of great value .
But the open-air life of the unfolded leaves is ( except in evergreens ) not more than six months .
That the order \ would under different degrees of contraction ( with twist ) assume successively the various spiral orders that exist in nature , in the order of their complexity , 5 , -S , S , -pg- , \amp ; c. , may be shown by the following experiment:\#151 ; Take a number of spheres ( say oak-galls ) to represent embryo leaves , and attach them in two rows in alternate order ( | ) along opposite sides of a stretched india-rubber band .
Give the band a slight twist , to determine the direction of twist in the subsequent contraction , and then relax tension .
The two rows of spheres will roll up with a strong twist into a tight complex order , which , if the spheres are attached in close contact with the axis , will be nearly the order 5 , with three steep spirals .
If the 178 Dr- H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
[ Feb. spheres are set a little away from the axis , the order becomes condensed into ( nearly ) f , with great precision and stability .
And it appears that further contraction , with increased distance of the spheres from the axis , will necessarily produce the orders ( nearly ) S , -f\r , fj , \amp ; c. in succession , and that these successive orders represent successive maxima of stability in the process of change from the simple to the complex .
It also appears that the necessary sequence of these successive steps of condensation , thus determined by the geometry of the case , does necessarily exclude the non-existent orders , .
] , | , 4y , \amp ; c. Numbering the spheres from 0 upwards , it appears that , under contraction , the following numbers are brought successively into contact with 0 , alternately to right and left:\#151 ; 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 8 , 13 , 21 , 34 , 55 , 89 , 144 , \amp ; c. None of them stands vertically above 0 while in contact with it , but a little to the right or a little to the left ; and so far the results of this experiment fall short of the perfect fractions f , S , T5F \amp ; c. : but in this very failure the results of the experiment are more closely in agreement with nature than are those perfect fractions themselves ; for those fractions give the angular divergence only in round numbers ( so to speak ) , and lose account of the little more , or the little less , which makes all the difference between a vertical rank and a spiral .
In the large majority of spiral-leaved plants , one has to be content with " f nearly " or " S nearly , " and it is difficult to find a specimen in which the fraction represents the order exactly .
The geometrical relations of the members of the above series 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 8 , 13 , \amp ; c. are as simple as their numerical relations .
Analysis of the order seen in the head of the sunflower and other examples , by consideration of their several sets of spirals , presents a striking agreement with the above synthetical process .
In the sunflower , a marginal seed taken as 0 is found to be in contact with the 34th , the 55th , and the 89th ( counted in order of growth ) , and even with the 144th , if there is not contact with the 34th .
The dandelion , with a lower degree of condensation , has 0 in contact with the 13th , the 21st , and the 34th in large specimens ; the house-leek in its leaf-order has 0 in contact with the 5th , 8th , and 13th ; the apple-bud has 0 in contact with the 2nd , 3rd , and 5th ; and thus we see that in nature the very same series of numbers is found to have contact-relation with 0 , which we have already seen possessing that relation in the experimental condensation of the order Difference of leaf-order in closely allied species ( e. g. major and P. coronopus ) is found in close relation to their different habits and needs .
The prevalence of the order \ in marine Alger , and in a lowdeveloped gregarious group , and its singular freedom from indrvidua 1873 .
] Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement 179 variation in that group and in elm , beech , \amp ; c. , support the view that this order is the original of the spiral orders .
In many plants we find actual transition from the order | to an order more complex , as , for instance , in Spanish chestnut , laurels , nut , ivy ; and these instances agree in presenting the complex order in the buds that occupy the most exposed situations , while they retain the simple \ in the less exposed lateral buds .
Several kinds of aloe have the order | in their basal leaves and a higher order in the remainder .
A species of cactus often contains a complete epitome of phyllotaxy in a single plant or even in a single shoot .
Shoots of acacia often present a zigzag disposition of their leaves , on either side of the branch , which seems unintelligible except as a distortion of an original two-ranked order .
The prevalent two-ranked arrangement of rootlets or roots seems to be a survival underground of an order which originally prevailed through the whole plant , root , stem , and branch .
In the whole Monocotyledonous class the first leaves in the seed have the order | .
In the Dicotyledonous class the first leaves in the seed have the simplest order of the whorled type .
As the spiral orders have probably been derived from a two-ranked alternate arrangement , so the whorled orders have probably been derived from a two-ranked collateral ( two abreast ) arrangement .
This is illustrated by an experiment similar to the former ; and it is seen that successive parallel horizontal pairs of spheres are compelled under contraction to take position at right angles to one another , exactly in the well-known crucial or decussate order .
These whorls of two contain potentially whorls of three and four , as is seen in variations of the same plant ; but the experiment does not show the change .
The reason of the non-survival of the ( supposed ) two-ranked collateral order lies in its manifest instability ; for under lateral pressure it would assume the alternate , and under vertical the crucial order .
The bud presents in its shape a state of equilibrium between a force of contraction , a force of constriction , and a force of growth .
To sum up , we are led to suppose that the original of all existing leaf-orders was a two-ranked arrangement , somewhat irregular , admitting of two regular modifications , the alternate and the collateral ; and that the alternate has given rise to all the spiral orders , and the collateral to all the whorled orders , by means of advantageous condensation in the course of ages .
vol. xxr .
Q

