On the Shoulder Girdle fyc .
III .
" On the Shoulder Girdle in Ichthyosauria and Sauro-pterygia .
" By J. W. Hulke , F.R.S. Received April 11 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The author discusses the structure of the shoulder girdle and the * homologies of its several parts in these families .
He shows that the : alleged existence of a precoracoid in the Ichthyosauria rests on an I insufficient foundation ; offers proofs that in Plesiosauria the anterior ) ventral ray is not only theoretically but actually precoracoid ; and !
also that the dorsal ray in the girdle is homologous with the shoulder-I blade in Testudinata and other Reptilia .
| IV .
" On the Embryology of Angiopteris evecta , Hofm .
" By J. Bretland Farmer , M.A. , Fellow of Magdalen College , Oxford .
Communicated by S. H. Vines , M.A. , F.R.S. Received March 28 , 1892 .
During a recent visit to Ceylon I took the opportunity of collecting young plants and prothallia of Angiopteris , with the view of working out the embryology of this type of the eusporangiate Filicineas , since the development of the embryo is not as yet known in any member of this group .
Most of my specimens were obtained from clay banks in the vicinity of Peradeniya , where the plants are not uncommon .
The prothallia are easily distinguished from those of other Ferns by their somewhat orbicular shape , with crenate edges , as well by their strikingly deep-green colour .
They resemble the thalli of Anthoceros rather than a common Polypodiaceous prothallium , and indeed are not easily distinguished from the former when the two plants are associated on the same bank , as is frequently the case .
The germination of the spore and the development of the prothal-linm have been described by Jonkman , * who also observed the formation of the sexual organs .
The antheridium is formed from a superficial cell of the prothallium , which divides by a wall , parallel to the surface , into an outer shallow cell and an inner cubical cell .
The former , by walls at right angles to the free surface , gives rise to the cover cells ; while the inner one , by successive bipartitions , originates the antherozoid mother-cells .
This Fern is a very favour-able type for exhibiting the development of the antherozoids from the ttoeleus of the spermatocyte , on account of the relatively large size 0 the structures in question .
* De geslaclitsgeneratie der Marattiaceeen , ' door H. F. Jonkman .

