1901 .
] On tlu Strain Theory of Photographic Action .
185 shows the effect of light of a given intensity .
It will be noticed that fight makes the acted wire cuproid .
But the action of mechanical vibration ( see lower curve in same figure ) makes the acted wire zincoid , and after several trials I found that a vibration with an amplitude of 3 ' produced a series of curves similar , but of opposite sign , to those produced by light .
Thus mechanical vibration produced a molecular effect opposite to that of light .
I next allowed both the disturbing influences to act simultaneously on one of the wires , and the light action was then found to be exactly balanced by the action of mechanical vibration , an increase or diminution of either at once upsetting the balance .
The molecular effect of mechanical vibration thus appears , at least in the case of tin , to be opposite to that produced by light .
This may be the case in general : the exception might be when one of the two stimuli is normal and the other sub-normal .
" On the Strain Theory of Photographic Action .
" By Jagadjs Chunder Bose .
Communicated by Lord Bayleigh , F.B.S. Received April 18 , \#151 ; Read June 20 , 1901 .
Our uncertainty with regard to the correct theory of photographic action is due to great experimental difficulties in studying the problem .
As for instance :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) There is reason to believe that every substance is molecularly affected by radiation , but detection of change is rendered impossible by the imperfections of methods hitherto available , and also by the subsequent self-recovery of the substance in darkness .
The effects can be detected in a few cases only when the changes produced happen to be visible , or become visible on development .
( 2 .
) As regards direct chemical tests , if we take , for example , the case of AgCl , the quantity of radiation product is exceedingly small , and occurs in the presence of a very large amount of unchanged chloride .
The isolation of the minute traces of changed product has baffled all effort .
Again , there are produced various secondary reactions which complicate the phenomenon .
To arrive at a correct idea of the changes produced , it is necessary to measure the minute effects produced by radiation on the extremely thin layer\#151 ; perhaps only a few molecules deep\#151 ; of the sensitive substance .
In order to ascertain this , it is desirable to begin with the study of some elementary substance in which its effects are attended with few secondary complications .
And , lastly , it is necessary to have , some means of studying all the stages of change in a continuous 186 Prof. J. C. Bose .
[ Apr 18 manner , so that the important preliminary phase of " molecular nego tiation " may not be missed .
I have in my two previous papers shown how the above ideal requirements may be realised by taking advantage of the conductivity or electromotive variation methods .
These methods not only enable us to detect extremely minute molecular changes produced by radiation , but also to follow the changes moment after moment in a continuous manner .
I have described in the two previous papers the various molecular effects produced by light , electric radiation , and mechanical disturbance under .different conditions .
The consideration of these will give a clear insight into various obscure phenomena connected with photographic action , among which may be mentioned the following :_____ 1 .
Photo-chemical induction .
2 .
Relapse of invisible image .
3 .
Recurrent reversals .
4 .
The development of pressure marks .
1 .
" Chemical " and " Physical " Theories of Photographic Action .
It is an arbitrary distinction to call a phenomenon either physical or chemical when it happens to be on the common borderland .
I have shown that when a substance is molecularly strained by light , its chemical activity is modified in consequence of the physical strain .
The acted and the unacted portions will therefore be unequally attacked by a developer .
In the case of a compound , the strain produced by light may cause a modification which renders it susceptible to decomposition by the action of a reducing agent .
The observed evolution of chlorine when moist AgCl is exposed to the long-continued action of intense light is often adduced in support of the chemical nature of photographic action .
This extreme case of dissociation cannot , however , be regarded as representative of the action of light in the formation of latent images .
In ordinary photographic action we have merely the effect of a moderate stress producing the corresponding strain ( with concomitant variation of chemical activity ) , and not the disruptive effect of a breaking stress .
With reference to photographic action , various facts are known which cannot be well explained from purely chemical considerations .
In connection with this the following experiment of Professor Dewar is suggestive .
It is found that at the low temperature of - 180 ' C. , there is a cessation of all chemical action .
Even such an extremely active substance as K does not show any action when immersed in liquid oxygen.* Now at these extremely low temperatures , where the action of such an active substance as K is suspended , an Eastman film was still found fairly sensitive to photographic influence .
* Dewar .
Friday Evening Discourse at Eoyal Institution , June 26 , 1891 .
1901 .
] On the Strain Theory of Photographic Action .
187 In the above case , it is difficult to see how light could have produced any chemical action in the relatively inactive silver salt .
It is more likely that the effect produced was of the nature of some physical strain .
That light does produce molecular strain even at such low temperatures \#151 ; a strain which may remain latent\#151 ; is shown from Professor Dewar 's experiments on phosphorescence .
Ammon .
Pt. Cyanide cooled to - 180 ' C. in liquid air absorbs light , but emits feeble radiation .
But as the temperature is raised the stored-up light is emitted with very great intensity .
_ .
I now proceed to consider the photographic interpretations of the various molecular response curves taken under the action of radiation , as detailed in my previous papers .
2 .
Substances may be Sensitive and yet give no Photographic The photographic effect on a sensitive plate is usually demonstrated by appropriate development , long after the exposure .
The after-effect of light on the sensitive substance may be fugitive or persistent .
There are numerous gradations of this persistency of after-effect .
In order that the effect of light may be developed , " it is therefore necessary that the portions corresponding to the image should not in the meantime have recovered from the strain due to radiation ; for otherwise there would be nothing to distinguish the light-impressed portions from the other portions not affected by light .
Though almost all substances are molecularly affected by radiation , yet there is a great difference in the permanence of after-effects .
The recovery , as has been mentioned before , is very quick in some cases , whereas in others it may be protracted .
It is obvious that any method which attempts to develop the aftereffect a long time after the exposure will not be successful in cases where there is quick self-recovery .
It will only be successful where the strain effect is more or less permanent .
It is thus seen that it is quite possible for a substance to be sensitive to radiation , and yet seem to show no effect capable of photographic development , owing to rapid self-recovery .
3 .
Relapse of the Invisible Image , The above considerations afford a simple explanation of the very obscure phenomenon of the relapse of the invisible image .
Recovery is merely a question of time .
With certain substances it is immediate , with others it takes a little longer , as in a daguerreotype , where the latent image only disappears in the course of several hours .
In ordinary photographic plates the recovery may not take place for several years .
We have seen how the strain effect of electric radiation was transient in some cases , whereas.it was persistent in others .
,188 Prof. J. C , Bose .
[ Apr. 18 , j| i It is evident that in order to make the after-effect more or less\#174 ; permanent , and thus render it developable , self-recovery should bed retarded .
There are two ways in which the after-effect may bed rendered comparatively permanent : ( 1 ) Even a highly elastic sub- h stance may be rendered more or less permanently distorted by l straining it beyond the limit of elastic recovery ; or ( 2 ) the presence o of a retarding substance may prevent the self-recovery of the sensitive v material .
One of the chief functions of the so-6alled sensitisers may 1 be to prevent self-recovery and make the after-effect permanent . .
4 .
Permanence of the Affect-effect by Overstrain .
Thus in many cases where images cannot be obtained with ordinary I exposure , they can be obtained with excessive strain caused by pro- I longed exposure .
Thus Moser obtained an invisible image on a clean 1 silver plate by exposing it to the sun for 2 hours or more .
The I invisible image was afterwards fixed by development with mercury 1 vapour .
A similar result was obtained with copper .
Major-General Waterhouse describes a very interesting series of 1 investigations* in which by prolonging the exposure , printing-out I impressions were obtained on silver .
These could be developed not I only by mercury or water vapour , but also by ferrous sulphate or | pyrogallie developers .
Images were also obtained on lead and gold .
\#166 ; All these results derive an additional interest from the fact that 1 most of the phenomena that occur by the exposure of ordinary photo- I graphic plates containing haloid compounds of silver can also be 1 , observed upon a silver plate exposed to light .
In my experiments on j molecular effects produced by electric waves , I found all metals sensitive J to electric radiation , owing to the extremely delicate nature of the 1 conductivity .method of detection .
The molecular effects of visible | radiation on various substances are also exhibited by the electromotive ] variation method .
In the experiments of Waterhouse , a considerable j number of metals were found to be sensitive to visible radiation , the | effect being rendered more or less permanent by overstrain .
5 .
Electromotive Variation Curve due to Light .
I give below one out of several similar curves , showing the effect of ] continuous light on one of the two plates in a photo-electric cell of AgBr f ( see fig. 17 ) .
In this curve several distinct stages are noticeable .
( 1 .
) A short latent period , where there is apparently little or no \gt ; .
action or even a transitory negative action .
The curve given had to be contracted to put in all the different phrases , and the peculiarities of the first part cannot be very well shown .
* Waterhouse , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' April , 1900* 1901 .
] On the Strain Theory of Photographic Action .
Figk 17\#151 ; E.M. variation curve for AgBr cell , under the continued action of light .
Note the preliminary negative twitch .
I have previously remarked that the molecular strain curve in general is in the first part slightly convex , then straight , and in the last part concave ; this is true not only when the strain is produced by light , but also by mechanical vibration .
( 2 .
) After this stage , the curve of response rises almost in a straight line .
This is the stage of increasing action .
( 3 .
) The curve then reaches the maximum and becomes horizontal ; after which it begins to fall , till it reaches the original neutral line .
( 4 .
) After very prolonged exposure I have sometimes found the curve proceeding in the negative direction , thus exhibiting molecular reversal . .
I have before explained the similarities of the molecular strains produced by light and mechanical vibration .
The recurrent reversals are also sometimes obtained with mechanical vibration , as in the , following electromotive variation curve for nickel ( see fig. 18 ) , which was kept for a long time under constant mechanical vibration .
Time .
* Fig. 18.\#151 ; Recurrent reversals obtained with a Ni cell under continued vibration .
6 .
Photo-chemical Induction .
The first part of the curve , or the latent period , is very suggestive as regards the obscure phenomenon of photo-electric induction .
Thus " Quantitative measurements have shown that the action of light is not instantaneous. .
On the contrary , it gradually develops , and requires a considerable time before it attains its full strength .
When a mixture of chlorine and hydrogen , which have been kept in the dark , is exposed VOL. LXX .
0 Prof. J. C. Bose .
[ Apr. 18 , to the light , there is either no hydrochloric acid or only a very small quantity formed in the first moment ; but the rate of formation increases so that the quantity formed in a given time , a minute continues to increase until it attains a maximum value .
Bunsen terms the gradual increase in the action induction .
If the gaseous mixture has been once exposed to the light , it will retain in the dark , for about half an hour , its capacity for forming HC1 in the light .
If the gas has remained in the dark for a short period and is again brought into the light , it requires a very short period of induction ; but the period of induction will be lengthened by keeping the mixture in the dark for a long time .
[ This is evidently due to self-recovery.\#151 ; J. C. B. ] Exposure to the light renders the gaseous mixture capable of entering into combination , but it does not bring about combination itself."* The latent period of the curve , due to molecular inertia , would thus appear to offer an explanation of induction .
In connection with this it is interesting to note the well-known fact that a very slight preliminary exposure of the photographic plates considerably enhances their sensitiveness .
It would also appear from the inspection of the curve , that the general law of photo-chemical action , which regards the total action as proportional to the product of the light intensity multiplied by the time of exposure , is subject to several modifying conditions .
During the latent period , this cannot hold good in the first part , nor can it be true after the maximum is reached .
It can hold good only in the second stage when the action proceeds uniformly .
7 .
The Effect of Intermittence in Modifying the Law of Photo-chemical Action .
But even after the substance has arrived at the second stage of uniform action , there may still be deviation from the above law .
If in one case light be intermittent , and in the other continuous , the effects may be quite different , though the total durations be equal .
For in the former case , during the continuation of light we may have distortion or molecular swing proceeding in a given direction , but on the stoppage of light , the swing stops too , sooner or later ( sooner if the distortion has been considerable , when the force of restitution becomes great ) , and owing to self-recovery may even become reversed .
After an interval , when the light is again allowed to act , it has not only to overcome the molecular inertia , but may have in certain cases to reverse the negative swing .
In the case of continuous radiation , on the other hand , the molecular action proceeds without hindrance .
This is very well seen in the curve given below , which shows the difference in the extent of molecular effects produced in an AgBr * Meyer , * Modern Theories of Chemistry , ' p. 507 .
1901 .
] On the Strain Theory of Photographic Action .
191 11 w interrupted and continuous illuminations of the same total duration .
( See fig. 19 .
) Though light acted for the same length of time in both cases , yet in that of interrupted illumination the molecular effect as measured by the galvanometer deflection was only seven divisions , whereas with continuous illumination the deflection was 11*5 , or one and a-half times as great .
ra\gt ; ( bt i ff ' C\f \ ?
f Time .
Fig. 19.\#151 ; Effect of ( a ) intermittent and ( b ) continuous illumination .
In ( a ) there are four interrupted illuminations of 15 " each , the total duration being 1 .
In ( 6 ) there was continuous illumination for 1 .
It is thus seen that owing to self-recovery , the effect of light with intermittent illumination is less .
It is also evident that the greater the period allowed for self-recovery ( during the interval of darkness ) the less will be the resultant effect .
In connection with this , the experiments of Abney are very interesting .
In experimenting on the difference between the effects on photographic emulsion of a continuous exposure and a series of intermittent illuminations , he finds that in the latter case the effect produced was always less , and that the longer the interval between the exposures , the smaller was the effect .
8 .
Photographic Effect Modified by Time-rate .
It will thus be seen that the photographic effect is not solely governed by the total amount of radiation , but by the time-rate also .
The influence of this factor appears to be exhibited in the three following cases .
Cases ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) derive an additional interest from the fact that the effects are probably due not to absorption of radiation , as is usually the case in photography , but to the emission of radiation .
( 1 .
) In photographs of lightning , the line of discharge often comes out dark ( the so-called dark lightning ) .
It has been shown that reversals are produced by intense radiation ; we may thus have reversals of the first , second , and succeeding higher orders .
Now it is possible that the reversal , or the dark-lightning effect , may be obtained , not only by a subsequent diffuse illumination ( Clayden effect ) , but also by the action of lightning itself , provided that the intensity of illumination is sufficiently great and sudden to produce the reversal .
The luminous intensity of lightning discharge is incom- 192 Prof. J. C. Bose .
[ Apr. 18 parably higher than any that can be produced by a spark from an electric machine .
Mr. R. W. Wood* obtained reversal with a single spark , when the photographic lens was wide open , but there was no reversal with four sparks , the lens aperture being reduced to one-fourth .
The quantity of light was the same in the two cases , but the time-rate of illumination was different .
This curious result would no longer appear anomalous , if we bear in mind the experiment in which the influence of time-rate was shown .
( 2 .
) In trying to obtain photographs by heat radiation on sensitised papers coated with a mixture of silver and mercury iodides , the following curious effect was observed .
The sensitised paper'was exposed to heat radiation and became uniformly reddish in colour .
A mask with cut-out letters was now put on it , and the sensitised paper was allowed to cool .
The rate of cooling was very rapid at the .
places exposed by the cut-out letters , whereas at the covered portions the rate of cooling was very much less .
After a long time when the sensitive paper had cooled down to a uniform temperature , prints were still visible , the effect being evidently due to the different rates of emission in the screened and unscreened parts .
'(3 .
) Major-General Waterhouse in his paper !
mentions an anomalous case which seems to be explicable from considerations given above .
He took a polished silvered glass plate , and put it into a printing frame with a cut-out paper mask and mica screen in which were cutout initials , just as if it were going to be exposed to the sun ; but instead of exposure to light the plate was gently warmed for about 5 minutes over a spirit lamp , and then developed with mercury .
The cut-out initials came out distinctly in dark lines .
It seems to me that in this experiment , as the plate was uniformly warmed , the difference between the screened and unscreened portions could only be in the different rates of emission .
9 .
Phenomenon of Recurrent Reversals .
The fourth stage in the curve for the action of light ( see fig. 16 ) will ' be found specially interesting with reference to photographic reversals .
These reversals are found to be recurrent .
Thus , starting with a neutral condition , we obtain the first negative with a moderate exposure ; longer exposure will tend to reduce the intensity of the negative and give rise to a neutral condition .
Further exposure gives rise to a positive , then a second neutral , and again a succeeding negative stage , and this often goes on in recurrent series .
Such recurrent reversals are also exhibited ( see fig. 18 ) by a substance under continuous mechanical vibration .
In my paper on " Elec# 1 Nature , ' November 30 , 1899 .
f Loc .
cit. 1901 .
] On the Strain Theory of Photographic Action .
try Touch " * I have given similar instances of reversals produced by the action of long-continued electric radiation .
10 .
Other Methods of obtaining Latent Image .
If molecular strain be the basis of all photographic phenomena , then it ought to be possible to obtain latent images by other methods of producing molecular strain .
An instance of this is seen in the development of mechanical pressure marks .
Images produced by electric strain are seen in the " inductoscripts .
" 11 .
Conclusion .
It is thus seen\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That molecular strain is produced by the action of light .
( 2 .
) That as the physico-chemical properties of a substance are changed by strain , it is possible to develop the latent image through the difference in the following properties between the exposed and unexposed portions produced by light\#151 ; ( a. ) Difference in adhesive power , development of daguerreotype by mercury vapour , development by water vapour .
( b. ) Difference in chemical stability , e.g. , development by reducing agents .
( 3 .
) That molecular strain may not only be produced by visible or invisible radiation , but also by ( a ) electric induction , ( b ) mechanical distortion .
Latent images produced by such means may be developed , e.g. , inductoscripts , development of pressure marks .
( 4 .
) That nearly all substances are sensitive to radiation , but the effect cannot in all cases be rendered visible , ( a ) owing to want of suitable chemical developers , ( b)owing to quick self-recovery .
The molecular effect due to radiation can , however , be demonstrated by the conductivity or electromotive variation methods .
( 5 .
) That the latent period of overcoming inertia corresponds to the photographic induction period .
( 6 .
) That the relapse of image is due to self-recovery .
( 7 .
) That owing to the tendency towards self-recovery the radiation effect does not solely depend on the total quantity of light , but depends also on the time-rate of illumination .
Hence the photographic effects of intermittent and continuous illuminations are not the same .
( 8 .
) That the continuous action of radiation produces recurrent reversals .
( 9 .
) That the molecular effects produced by light and electric radiation are similar .
# ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 .
VOL. LXX .
P

