165 A Contribution to our Knowledge of the Protozoa of the Soil .
By T. Goodey , M.Sc .
( Birm .
) , Mackinnon Student of the Royal Society , Rothamsted Experimental Station .
^Communicated by A. I ) .
Hall , F.R.S. Received May 19 , Read June 1 , 1911 .
) [ Plate 4 .
] CONTENTS .
PAGE Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
165 Part I.\#151 ; Protozoa Found .
a. Methods ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 167 b. Systematic ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
168 c. Active Protozoa Found on the Surface of the Soil . .
169 Part II.\#151 ; Experimental .
d. Thermotaxis ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
170 e. Galvanotaxis ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
171 / .
Excystation Experiments ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
177 g. Summary and General Conclusions ... ... ... ... ... ... .
178 Literature and Explanation of Plate .
Introduction .
In the 'Journal of Agricultural Science , ' Yol .
Ill , Part 2 , 1909 , Drs. Russell and Hutchinson of this laboratory published an account of their investigations on the effect of partial sterilisation of soil on the production of plant food .
In this paper it is shown that , when soils are heated or treated with certain volatile antiseptics , and brought again under conditions favourable to plant growth , they show a great increase in fertility .
It is further shown that , although the bacteria are at first reduced very considerably in numbers , yet under conditions of temperature , moisture , and aeration favouring growth , they subsequently increase enormously in numbers .
Pari passu with this increase in the number of bacteria , there is an increase in the production of ammonia in the soil , and it is to this that the soil owes its greater power of production .
In explanation of these results , the theory is advanced that the treatment by heating or with volatile antiseptics has removed some factor which in the untreated soil normally limits the growth of bacteria , and thus the rate of ammonia production .
This limiting factor is looked upon as being biological in character , but not of a bacterial nature .
It was found in cultures of untreated soil in suitable nutrient media that certain animal organisms belonging to the phylum protozoa became very 166 Mr.^T .
Goodey .
A Contribution to our [ May 19 , , abundant a day or two after the culture had been made .
On the other hand , cultures of treated soil failed to reveal these protozoa , which aro much more susceptible than the bacteria to the sterilising agents employed .
These organisms included certain amoebae , flagellates , and infusorian ciliates , known to be devourers of bacteria when living in a liquid .
To these protozoa , therefore , the authors assign the function of limiting the-activity of bacteria in the soil , though they point out* that they by no means wish to imply that they are the only limiting factor .
Various workers have recorded the presence of protozoa in the soil , especially of amcebae .
Greefff gives an account of four species of amoeba which he found in association with damp earth and moss , etc. Beijerinck , ^ Celli , S Frosch , || TsujitanilT describe certain small amcebae which they obtained in cultures made from garden soil , and give methods for obtaining these organisms in pure culture on various nutrient media of a solid nature .
Stormer** found that several colonies of amoebae developed in plates-inoculated with 1 mgrm .
of soil .
Hiltnerff speaks of finding numerous amoebae , flagellates , and ciliated protozoa in cultures made from soil , and suggests that the presence of these animal organisms has some vital connection with the properties of the soil .
Hartmann and Nagler , \#163 ; \#163 ; and Nagler , SS have published important con* tributions to our knowledge of the life-history and nuclear changes of several small amoebae , three or four of which came from cultures made with soil .
Wolff llll speaks of a characteristic protozoan fauna in certain irrigated soils .
He attributes various functions to the protozoa , viz.:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Carrying disease germs ; ( 2 ) taking up and killing algae , fungi , and bacteria ; ( 3 ) absorption of useful material from the soil water , thus preventing it from sinking to the deeper layers of soil ; and ( 4 ) power of living at all seasons of the year , so long as the ground is sufficiently moist and is not frozen .
He gives a plate with drawings of protozoa .
* * * S ** * * SS * Loc .
cit. , p. 142 , S 42 .
+ Greeff , B , .
, ' Arch , fur Mikroskop .
Anat .
, ' 1866 , vol. 2 , p. 299 .
+ Beijerinck , ' Centr .
fur Bakt .
, ' 1896 , vol. 19 , Pt. 1 , p. 257 .
S Celli , ibid. , p. 1025 .
|| Frosch , P. , 'Cent , fur Bakt .
, ' 1897 , vol. 21 , Pt. 1 , p. 579 .
IT Tsujitani , J. , ' Cent , fur Bakt .
, ' 1898 , vol. 24 , Pt. 1 , p. 666 .
** Stormer , K. , ' Jahrsber .
d. Vereinigung f. angewandte Botanik , ' 1907 , No. 5 , p. 113 .
++ Hiltner , L. , ibid. , p.'200 .
Hartmann , M. , Nagler , K. , ' Sitz .
Ber .
d. Naturf .
Freunde , ' 1908 , Berlin , vol. 4 .
SS Nagler , K. , ' Arch , fur Protistenk .
, ' 1909 , vol. 15 , p. 1 .
llll Wolff , ' Mitt .
a. d. Kaiser Wilhelm-Instit .
f. Landw .
Bromberg , ' 1909 , vol. 1 , Heft 4 , p. 382 ; Abst .
, ' Cent. f. Bakt .
, ' 1909 , vol. 24 , p. 465 .
( Only abstract seen .
) 1911 .
] Knowledge of the Protozoa of the Soil .
Peck* found protozoa in the mannite medium used for the cultivation of Azotobacter from soil .
However , no comprehensive account of the various species of protozoa found in the soil has as yet been published , and , in view of the fact that such highly important functions have been attributed to them , it is very desirable that our knowledge of them should be extended .
It is with this object in view that the present paper is put forward as a preliminary communication .
Part I.\#151 ; Protozoa Found .
( a ) Methods.\#151 ; The method of cultivation which has been chiefly used is as follows:\#151 ; To a quantity of sterile 1-per-cent , hay infusionf contained in a small Erlenmayer flask or test tube are added a few grammes of the soil , the protozoa of which it is desired to investigate .
The mixture is shaken up , a plug of cotton wool inserted in the mouth of the vessel , and the culture placed in the incubator either at 20 ' or 30 ' C. After allowing it to stand for a day or two , numerous protozoa can be taken from the surface of the liquid .
As an intra-vitam stain , neutral red diluted 1/ 100,000 has been found very useful for showing up food vacuoles .
For instantaneously killing the organisms with their flagella or cilia fully displayed , the preparation is exposed to the action of osmic vapour for a few seconds .
A saturated solution of methyl green in 1-per-cent , acetic acid has proved very serviceable for quickly staining and showing up nuclei .
It has been used in the following manner:\#151 ; A small drop of the culture solution is taken on the sterilised platinum loop , and spread out on a cover-slip .
This is then exposed to the action of osmic vapour for a short time and a small drop of methyl-green solution is added .
The cover-slip is then inverted over a cavity slide or placed on an ordinary slide and examined .
It can be waxed down by painting round its edge with the hot wick of a candle , the flame of which has been just previously blown out , and thus kept from drying up for a long time .
* Peck , S. S. , ' Bull .
34 , Hawaiian Sugar Planters ' Expt. Stat. , ' September , 1910 .
t The hay infusion used throughout has been slightly alkaline in reaction ; sufficient N/ l NaOH solution being added to the boiled and filtered liquid to render it just alkaline to litmus .
Other media found useful , especially for film preparations , are 4-per-cent , hay infusion+egg albumen , 0*75 per cent. NaCl solution-}-egg albumen ; to each 100 c.c. of liquid is added in each case about 15 c.c. of fresh white of egg .
Cultures of amoeba and other protozoa can be made on the agar medium made up according to the recipe given by Berliner ( ' Arch , fttr Protistenk .
, ' 1909 , vol. 15 ) .
A filtered soil extract has also been used as a liquid medium .
[ May 19 , Mr. T. Goodey .
A Contribution to our ( b ) Systematic.\#151 ; The following list of organisms includes all that it has been possible to classify and name up to date .
The scheme adopted is simple , all the different families , sub-families , etc. , to which any particular organism belongs are not given .
It must not be supposed that all the forms have been found in any one culture ; some cultures may yield a large number of different species , whilst others give only a few .
Some species , e.g. , Cercomonas and mcullus and Col. steinii , are very commonly met with , whilst others only occasionally occur .
Notes have been added to the different species tabulated , indicating their abundance , etc. Class.\#151 ; Mastigophora ( Dies ) .
Order.\#151 ; Protomonadina ( Blochmann ) .
1 .
Cercomonas sp. ?
( Duj .
em. Biitschli ) .
( PI .
4 , fig. 1 .
) 2 .
Dimorpha radiata ( Klebs ) , These forms have two flagella arising from the nuclear area ; they ingest food by amoeboid movement and are very common , occurring in practically all cultures and from all soils .
3 .
Oicomonas ( Kent ) , two species , one much larger than the other , occasionally found .
4 .
Bodo lens ( Ehrb .
) , has occurred in a few cultures , from a pasture soil .
Order.\#151 ; Euglenoidena .
5 .
Anisonema sulcatum ( Duj .
) , found in culture from one particular soil .
Family.\#151 ; Choanoflagellidse ( Stein ) .
6 .
Codosiga botrytis ( Ehrb .
) , only seen on one occasion , in a culture from a pasture soil .
Two other flagellates have been encountered , but so far it has not been possible to classify them .
Class.\#151 ; Rhizopoda ( von Siebold ) .
Order.\#151 ; Lobosa .
7 .
Amceba " Umax " ( PI .
4 , fig. 2 ) .
The amoebae found are all placed provisionally in the " " group on account of their size , and lobose pseudopodia .
They are of frequent occurrence and vary considerably in size ; some are 8\#151 ; 10 ft in diameter , others 20\#151 ; 40 ft , whilst one form reached 100 in length .
Before these can be definitely named according to their particular species , it will be necessary to work out the structure of the nucleus and to follow the nuclear changes in division , etc. The recent work of Nagler ( loc. .
) and others on different amoebae of the " limax " group shows this to be essential .
Order.\#151 ; Monothalamia ( M. Schultze ) .
8 .
Arcella vulgaris ( Ehrb .
) , in an old culture of sewage soil .
9 .
Diffiugia globvlosa ( Duj .
) , shell built up of cells of dead algae , in an old culture of sewage soil .
10 .
Trinema enchelys ( Ehrb .
) , in an old culture of a manured arable soil .
11 .
Order.\#151 ; 'Mycetozoa ; numerous active zoospores have been encountered in a few cultures , from arable , pasture , and garden soils .
Class .
\#151 ; Ciliata .
Order.\#151 ; Holotricha ( Stein .
) .
12 .
Spathidium spathula , only occasionally found , from manured arable soil .
Knowledge of the Protozoa of the Soil .
1911 .
] 13 .
Enchelys sp. ?
, a small form , occasionally found from arable and pasture soil .
14 .
Chilodon sp. ?
( Elxrb .
) ( PI .
4 , fig. 3 ) , fairly common from arable and pasture soil .
Has only two contractile vacuoles .
15 .
Colpoda cucvllus(O .
F. M. ) ( PL 4 , fig. 4 ) , very widely distributed and extremely common in arable and pasture soil .
16 .
Colpoda steinii ( Maup .
em. Enriques ) ( PI .
4 , fig. 6 ) , as common as Col. cucvllus .
17 .
Colpoda maupasii ( Enriques ) , only found once or twice from a pasture soil .
18 .
Balantiopkorus elongatus ( Schew .
) ( PI .
4 , fig. 7 ) , fairly common in arable and pasture soils .
19 .
Balantiophorus minutus ( Schew .
) , found in culture from only one soil .
20 .
Cryptochilum nigricans ( Maup .
) , fairly common from a manured arable soil .
21 .
An unclassified ciliate .
Order.\#151 ; Hypotricha ( Stein ) .
Some difficulty has been experienced in accurately placing the different species of this order .
Nos. 22 , 26 , and 27 are only provisionally placed .
22 .
Qastrostyla steinii ( Engel .
) , a very large form , found on two occasions from arablesoil , devouring Col. cucullus .
23 .
Urostyla grandis ( Ehrb .
) , found in cultures from a manured arable soil .
24 .
Qonostomum ajjine ( Stein ) ( PI .
4 , fig. 9 ) , rather widely distributed , found in many arable and pasture soils .
25 .
Pleurotricha grandis ?
( Stein ) ( PI .
4 , fig. 8 ) , same remarks apply as to 21 .
26 .
Pleurotricha lanceolata ( ?
) ( Ehrb .
) , a long , flexible form , with pointed posterior end , from an arable soil .
27 .
Oxytricha sp. ( ?
) , a form from a manured garden soil .
Order.\#151 ; Peritricha ( Stein ) .
28 .
Vorticella microstoma ( Ehrb .
) ( PI .
4 , figs. 10 , 11 ) , fairly common in occurrence , from arable soil .
29 .
Vorticella putrinum ( Kent ) , found in cultures from a sewage farm soil .
30 .
Epistylis coarctata ( C. and L. ) , rather large organism from a pasture soil .
( c ) Active Protozoa found on the Surface of the Soil.\#151 ; About the middle of December , 1910 , some wet , rotting mangold leaves were collected from the surface of Barnfield , Plot 2 .
There had been an abundance of rain and the ground was very wet .
Some of the water from the surface of the leaves was sucked up and then examined under the microscope .
There were numerous free living Cercomonas , some small Amoeba Umax , a few Colpoda cucullus and many Urostyla grandis ; all of them belonging to species found in soil cultures .
On other occasions , wet grass leaves and stalks from the surface of the soil , or from very close to it , have been examined .
On these I have found active Cercomonas , Colpoda cucullus , Amoeba verrucosa , Amoeba Umax , Epistylis coarctata , and a small hypotrichous ciliate which I have not been able to classify .
One would , of course , expect to find active protozoa in situations such as these , where there is an abundance of moisture for them to swim about in .
170 Mr. T. Goodey .
A Contribution to our [ May 19 , Activity on the surface of the soil must not , however , be confused with activity in it .
Part II.\#151 ; Experim Perhaps the most important point to determine is the state in which the protozoa are present in the soil .
We know they are there , but to exercise the function which has been attributed to them by Russell and Hutchinson they must he present in a free-living , active condition , capable of a certain amount of movement consequent upon their need for food , moisture and oxygen .
On account of the opacity and texture of the soil , it presents insuperable difficulties in the way of direct microscopic observation of such minute organisms as protozoa .
Even when finely teased out in a liquid and spread in a thin layer in a glass trough , it has never been possible to find free-living organisms .
Further , the method employed for cultivating them described above does not throw any light upon their condition .
There is nothing to tell us whether the forms which occur in the culture have developed from a free-living or from an encysted condition .
For the elucidation of this question various experiments have been carried out , both " indirect , " i.e. designed to give certain data on which inferences could be based as to the condition of the protozoa , and " direct , " i.e. designed to affect the activities of any free-living protozoa in the soil and induce them to leave it .
In the following pages an account is given , first , of the direct attempts , and second , of an indirect method which has proved very useful .
( d ) Thermotaxis.\#151 ; A piece of apparatus was constructed on the same principles as that described by Jennings.* It consisted of three glass tubes about 8 mm. in diameter , supported in a horizontal position at exactly the same level , by being passed through holes in a block of wood .
The tubes were placed 1 inch apart and so arranged that a glass slide rested evenly on each , giving complete contact of the surfaces .
Indiarubber tubes were connected to the ends of the glass tubes and attached , on the inflow side , to water taps , one supplying water at about 15 ' C. and the other leading from a geyser , by means of which water at any required temperature from 15 to 60 ' C. could be obtained .
The waste water was led off by rubber tubes emptying into a sink .
A glass trough was made by cementing strips of glass to a slide 3 inches by 1*5 inch with Canada balsam ; the trough was about 6*5 cm .
long , 1*5 cm .
* H. S. Jennings , ' The Behavior of Lower Organisms , ' Carnegie Institution , " Washington , 1904 , No. 16 , p. 11 .
1911 .
] Knowledge of the ProtozQa of the Soil .
wide , and 2 mm. deep .
Examination of the contents of the trough was carried out with a powerful hand lens and with low power objectives .
The preliminary trials with this apparatus , using active free-swimming Golpoda and Pleurotricha in a culture , proved that the method was not precise enough .
A second piece of apparatus was then devised , similar in essentials to the first , but , in place of the glass tubes , three zinc tubes f inch square in section were substituted .
These were corked at each end and through the corks glass tubes were passed , and to these , rubber tubes gave connection with the water supply , etc. , as before .
The zinc tubes were clamped in a horizontal position between two strips of wood , and carefully arranged so as to give good contact with the glass trough when placed on them .
cucullus and Pleurotricha grandis in a culture liquid were found to respond quite well , especially when the trough was slowly moved more and more on to the tube conveying water at the higher temperature .
The tropism was always negative , the organisms moving away from the source of heat towards the region of lower temperature .
The movement was fairly precise and general , but there were always a few stragglers , apparently swimming about quite indefinitely .
A culture containing numerous active ciliated protozoa was mixed with a small quantity of sterilised soil , the mixture put in the glass trough and placed on the tubes .
The object of this was to see if it were possible to cause active ciliates to leave the soil particles and collect in the clear liquid at one end of the trough .
No satisfactory results were obtained , the presence of soil particles in the liquid appearing to prevent the organisms from responding to the stimulus of heat .
They could shelter behind and under the tiny masses of soil , and there can be little doubt that local disturbances of temperature were set up also .
Moreover , it must be borne in mind that the object of the experiments was to attempt to discover any free-living protozoa in fresh soil .
Eor this reason it was not possible to carry on the experiment for any length of time , owing to the fact that encysted forms might hatch out and so mar the results .
Fresh soil was taken on one or two occasions and teased out in sterile 1-per-cent , hay infusion in the glass trough , and treated as described above , but no free-living protozoa were found .
The method was therefore discontinued .
( e ) Gralvanotaxis.\#151 ; Verworn* gives an account of the way in which certain protozoa respond to the stimulus of a continuous electric current .
It is there shown that when a liquid containing amoebae or certain ciliated protozoa has a continuous current passed through it by means of two non-polarisable electrodes , the organisms move through the liquid and assemble at the * ' General Physiology , ' English translation , 1899 , p. 455 . ?
VOL. LXXX1V.\#151 ; B. O if2 Mr. T. Goodey .
A Contribution to our [ May 19 , cathode .
On these lines it seemed possible to devise a method of applying the electric stimulus to the soil protozoa , and cause them to leave the soil and come to a point convenient for observation , assuming , of course , that they were present in a free-living condition .
In preliminary experiments , the current was passed into the culture liquid through two non-polarisable electrodes ( see fig. ) similar to those described by Verworn.* Each consisted of a glass tube about 8 cm .
long by 6 mm. in diameter , one end of which was plugged with fresh moist clay , f and into this a tip of porous clay was inserted .
A concentrated solution of zinc sulphate was placed inside the tube and Non-polarisable electrode .
a. Rubber band .
b. Amalgamated zinc rod .
c. Concentrated zinc-sulphate solution .
d. Moist clay plug .
e. Tip of porous clay .
into this an amalgamated zinc rod dipped , kept in position by means of a rubber band surrounding it and fitting the mouth of the tube .
The upper end of each rod was fitted with a screw so as to serve as a terminal .
By inserting a milliammeter in the circuit the current passing could be read off .
Actively swimming ciliated protozoa in culture liquid quickly responded to the current and collected at the cathode .
The presence of soil-particles , however , in any considerable quantity prevented the ciliates from assembling * Loc .
cit. , p. 455 .
t Care must be taken to renew the moist clay plugs each day during their use , and to keep the porous clay tips clean and free from ZnS04 which gradually soaks into them .
1911 .
] Knowledge of the Protozoa of the Soil .
173 rapidly , and for this reason it did not seem possible to cause protozoa to collect at a given point by directly applying the current to the soil .
The following method was finally arrived at:\#151 ; In a larfjje Petri dish , 11 cm .
in diameter and 2 cm .
deep , a fairly large quantity ( 2\#151 ; 5 grm. ) of the required soil is placed : 20 c.c. of sterile 1-per-cent , hay infusion is then added and the soil quickly teased out as finely as possible .
The culture is then put into the 30 ' C. incubator\#151 ; incubation has in all cases been carried out at this temperature .
After a time , the culture is carefully taken from the incubator and the supernatant liquid pipetted off , without much agitation , so as to avoid taking up any quantity of soil particles .
This liquid is put into the two tubes of a small hand centrifugal machine , and centrifugalised at high speed for a few minutes in order to bring down any protozoa present to the bottom of the tubes .
The bulk of the liquid is then taken up as quickly as possible by means of a pipette , and put back into the culture in the large dish .
The remaining few cubic centimetres at the bottom of the tubes are then agitated and taken up by a small pipette and put into a shallow Petri dish 6 cm .
in diameter .
This is placed on the stage of the microscope , and submitted to the electric current for a few minutes .
The current passes between the two non-polarisable electrodes dipping into the liquid and connected up with the storage battery and the milliammeter .
An E.M.F. of 12 volts and a current of 0*0002 to 0*00028 ampere have been used in most of the work .
By focussing a low-power objective ( 1-inch ) on to the cathode or close to it , it is possible to watch the ciliates come swimming into this region under the influence of the \#166 ; electric stimulus .
It has been possible by this means to find , in a few minutes , a few or even solitary ciliates in 5 or 6 c.c. of culture liquid .
If , after the passage of the current for about 5 minutes , no protozoa are found in the region of the cathode , the conclusion is that none are present , and the liquid is put back into the main culture .
For further observation , under high-power objectives , of the ciliates caused to aggregate at the cathode , it has been necessary to extract them from the culture liquid .
For this purpose capillary pipettes have been used .
Placing the fine end of one of these under the low power , and then , having the required organism in focus , following it carefully by moving the dish with the left hand , the pipette is brought down on to it , with the result that the organism is suddenly sucked up into the tube .
From this it is usually transferred to a cover-slip by blowing down the broad end of the tube .
Here it can be treated in whatever way is desired .
As mentioned in Part I , the protozoa in the ordinary soil culture do not Mr. T. Goodey .
A Contribution to our [ May 19 , occur in any abundance until two or three days after inoculation .
It was necessary , therefore , to determine , if possible , the period of time elapsing between inoculation and the appearance of the first active protozoa in the culture .
Preliminary experiments revealed the fact that active ciliated protozoa could be obtained in a soil culture in the short time of four and a half hours , and by using the galvanotactic method just described it has been possible to obtain a considerable amount of information .
In the following experiments , different soils have been used and comparatively large quantities have been taken in order to increase the chance of finding any possible free-living protozoa in the soil .
The larger the quantity of soil , within limits , the more probable is it that active protozoa , if present , will come out into the culture liquid .
No. 1 , \#151 ; Manured soil from Barnfield , very moist .
After 1 hr .
40 m.\#151 ; 1 Colpoda cucullus , only seen once , protoplasm rather granular at posterior end .
1 Vorticella microstoma , free swimming , cylindrical , aboral ciliary ring , no food vacuoles , protoplasm clear .
" 4 " 0 " \#151 ; 1 Enchelys sp. t , protoplasm clear .
This soil had been stored for six weeks under conditions favourable to bacterial activity , and presumably to protozoal activity also .
No. 2.\#151 ; Same soil as in 1 .
After 4 hr .
25 m.\#151 ; 1 Col. cucullus , protoplasm rather granular , not stained with neutral red , no food vacuoles .
Many Col. steinii , protoplasm clear .
3 or 4 Gonostomum affine , protoplasm very clear , nuclear areas easily visible .
No. 3.\#151 ; Manured soil from Barnfield .
After 0 hr .
40 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
" 1 " 30 " \#151 ; 1 Col. cucullus , protoplasm rather granular , no food vacuoles .
1 Col. steinii , rather granular , nucleus very clear on staining .
1 Balantiophorus elongatus , protoplasm clear .
" 3 " 0 " \#151 ; 1 Col. cucullus , 2 or 3 Col. steinii , 1 Gonostomum affine , 2 Balantiophorus elongatus , 2 Spathid spathula .
This soil had been air-dried , subsequently moistened and stored at laboratory temperature since October , 1910 , in a bottle plugged with cotton wool .
No. 4.\#151 ; Manured soil , Hoosfield , fresh and moist .
After 1 hr .
20 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
" 2 " 0 , , , , , , " 3 " 45 " \#151 ; 1 Col. steinii , very active , protoplasm clear .
1 Bal .
elongatus , protoplasm clear .
No. 5.\#151 ; Manured soil as in 1 .
After 0 hr .
30 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
\#187 ; 1 \#187 ; 1\#174 ; JJ \#187 ; V 2 " 15 " \#151 ; \#187 ; 5\gt ; 1911 .
] Knowledge of the Protozoa of the Soil , ( j.\#151 ; Manured greenhouse soil from " Waltham Cross , moist .
After 1 hr .
10 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
" 6 " 10 " \#151 ; 1 or 2 Col. cucvllus , many Col. and Gonostomum all having protoplasm clear and finely granular in appearance .
This was a " sick " soil , i.e. , it no longer possessed the power of yielding heavy crops .
The factor limiting bacterial activity was exerting itself fully .
No. 7.\#151 ; Soil as 6 .
After 1 hr .
35 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
\#187 ; 3 , , 20 , , , , " " 7 " 10 " \#151 ; Many active Col. steinii and Gonostomvm affine .
No. 8.\#151 ; Soil as in 6 and 7 .
After 1 hr .
30 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
" 4 " 0 " \#151 ; Several Gonostomum affine , 1 or 2 Col. and 1 Vorticella storm , , free swimming , cylindrical , aboral ciliary ring .
Protoplasm of all organisms clear , no food vacuoles .
No. 9.\#151 ; Manured soil from Barnfield , fairly moist .
After 1 hr .
40 m.\#151 ; 1 or 2 Col. steinii , 1 Bal .
el protoplasm clear .
" 2 " 30 " \#151 ; 5 or 6 Col. steinii , 2 or 3 Bal .
elongatus .
" 5 " .20 " \#151 ; Many Col. cucullus , Col. steinii , Gonostomum afine , 1 or 2 Bal .
elongatus and Enchelys .
The soil had been stored in the same way as 3 since October , 1910 .
No. 10.\#151 ; Manured soil from Bamfield , fresh and moist .
After 0 hr .
25 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
\#187 ; 1 \#187 ; \#174 ; it\#187 ; ) ) 4 O A _____ w ii * ity \#187 ; \#187 ; \gt ; \#187 ; " 4 " 35 " \#151 ; 1 Col. cucullus , 2 Bal .
elongatus , protoplasm clear and finely granular .
No. 11.\#151 ; Soil same as 9 .
After 0 hr .
50 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
" 1 " 30 " \#151 ; 1 Col. cucvllus , protoplasm clear , nucleus easily seen , without staining , under high power .
" 3 " 20 " \#151 ; 2 Col. cucvllus , protoplasm clear , one caught showing nucleus well , without staining .
" 4 " 30 " \#151 ; 1 Col. cucvllus , dark in appearance , having a fair number of food vacuoles .
4 or 5 Gonostomum afine , 2 caught showing clear protoplasm and nuclei without staining .
No. 12.\#151 ; Soil same as 10 .
After 1 hr .
20 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
" 2 " 15 " \#151 ; 2 Col. steinii , protoplasm clear .
\#187 ; 5 " 0 " \#151 ; 1 Col. steinii , 1 or 2 Bal .
elongatus , protoplasm clear , 1 Gon .
afine , nuclei showing well without staining .
\#187 ; 7 , , 0 , , \#151 ; Many Col. cucullus , Col. steinii , Bal .
elongatus , all having clear protoplasm , and a few food vacuoles .
1 Epistylis coarctata , cylindrical , free swimming , 1 or 2 food vacuoles .
No. 13.\#151 ; Soil , a mixture of toluene-evaporated+ 50 per cent , untreated soil , fairly moist .
After 1 hr .
10 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
" 1 , , 55 " \#151 ; 1 Bal .
elongatus .
\#166 ; n3 " 30 , , \#151 ; No active forms .
\gt ; ' 6 " 0 " \#151 ; 1 Col. cucullus , 5 or 6 Col. steinii , protoplasm clear and nuclei showing well .
176 Mr. T. Goosey .
A Contribution to our [ May 19 , The soil used in the following tabulated Experiments 14-18 had received the following treatment : It was first partially sterilised with toluene , and the antiseptic thoroughly evaporated .
This treatment brought the water content of the soil down to 3 or 4 per cent. By adding distilled water , the water content was brought up to 10 per cent. , and the soil was left in a corked bottle for two days , in order to allow the water to distribute itself evenly The water content was next brought up to approximately 20 per cent. , by the addition of a culture of hay infusion which contained an abundance of active Colpoda cucullus and Pleurotricha grandis .
The soil was spread out in a thin layer , and the liquid added as evenly as possible by means of a fine pipette .
After this it was put up in a small bottle plugged with cotton wool , and kept either at 20 ' C. or at laboratory temperature .
The purpose of this treatment was to give every opportunity for the active ciliates added to continue in their free-swimming condition , if that were at all possible .
For this reason the culture was not added directly to the dry soil , as it was thought that the bulk of the liquid , on being taken up rapidly by the soil , would do considerable violence to the rather delicate protoplasm of the protozoa , hence the moistening up to 10-per-cent , water content was carried out before the addition of the culture .
No. 14 .
After 1 hr .
30 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
" 2 " 40 " \#151 ; 1 Col. cucullus , protoplasm fairly clear , a few granules , no food vacuoles .
" 4 , , 5 " \#151 ; No active forms .
No. 15 .
After 1 hr .
30 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
" 3 " 45 " \#151 ; 1 Col. cucullus , protoplasm rather granular .
" 6 " 15 " \#151 ; 1 Col. cucullus , 1 Col. steinii , protoplasm fairly clear .
" 7 " 20 " \#151 ; No active forms .
No. 16.\#151 ; -The above soil , air-dried .
After 3 hr .
20 m.\#151 ; 2 Col. cucullus , protoplasm clear , one with 3 or 4 food vacuoles .
" 4 , , 10 " -\#151 ; No active forms .
, , 5 " 15 " \#151 ; 2 Col. cucullus , not captured .
" 16 " 0 " \#151 ; Many Col. cucullus .
No. 17.\#151 ; 8-6 grm. of the above soil , air-dried .
After 4 hr .
0 m.\#151 ; 1 Col. cucullus , protoplasm clear , no food vacuoles , very distinct nucleus without staining .
" 6 " 15 " \#151 ; 3 Col. cucullus , two rather small , protoplasm fairly clear , with a few food vacuoles ; one larger and with quite a large number of food vacuoles .
" 8 " 0 " \#151 ; 2 Col. cucullus .
No. 18.\#151 ; 8*6 grm. of the soil , undried .
After 1 hr .
45 m.\#151 ; No active forms .
" 4 " 35 " \#151 ; 2 Col. cucullus .
" 7 " 15 " \#151 ; 1 Pleurotricha grandis , fairly numerous food vacuoles .
1911.1 1 Knowledge of the Pro the 177 ( f ) Excystation.*\#151 ; Concurrently with the above experiments with soil , a series on the development of free-swimming ciliated protozoa from their resting cysts have been carried out .
These have been done chiefly with the ' cysts of Coljpoda cucvMus .
' ; Rhumblerf speaks of obtaining active by excystation from \#171 ; dauercysten " in about six hours .
It became necessary , therefore , to determine the length of time required for the excystation of A supply of resting cysts was obtained from the sides of a flask containing an old culture of this ciliate , and a large number of these cysts were slowly air dried on a filter paper .
Undried cysts have also been used .
The experiments have been conducted chiefly in hanging drop cultures , either over cavity slides or glass rings , and incubation has in all cases been carried out at 30 ' C. During excystation the outer wall of the cyst , ectocyst , which is generally rather rough and is very resistant , ruptures and permits the transparent-walled endocyst to come out .
Within the latter the organism begins to rotate , and it is seen that the contractile vacuole begins to pulsate .
The endocyst gradually swells up and its wall gets thinner and thinner ( Plate 4 ; fig. 5 ) .
During this process , the cilia of the Colpoda are moving rapidly , causing it to revolve within the endocyst , and setting in constant motion the mass of defsecated excretory matter extruded during encystation .
Finally the endocyst wall gives way and the organism swims away freely .
The protoplasm is generally finely granular in appearance , and in the endoplasm there are varying quantities of larger granules .
Sometimes the latter are quite large and rather dark in appearance . !
It is almost always possible for one to distinguish quite easily the situation of the meganucleus as a spherical area , more dense in appearance than the rest of the protoplasm .
There are , of course , no food vacuoles in the endoplasm , for these are only found after the organism has been obtaining food for some time .
No. 1.\#151 ; Col. cucvllus emerged in 4 hr .
from dried cysts .
" 2.\#151 ; Col. cucvllm emerged in 4^ hr .
from dried cysts and in 6J hr .
from undried cysts .
" 3.\#151 ; Many Col. cucullm emerged in 3 hr .
25 m. from dried cysts .
" 4.\#151 ; One or two Col. cucullm emerged in 3\#163 ; hr .
from undried cysts .
" 5.\#151 ; One Col. cucvllm emerged in 2 hr .
35 m. from dried cysts which had been standing on a filter paper moistened slightly with hay infusion On the previous evening .
' n 6.\#151 ; One Col. cucvllm emerged in 2 hr .
from cysts treated as in 5 , only moistened for about 30 hr .
with hay infusion . . . .
* - \#171 ; \gt ; * \#166 ; i .
\lt ; 's - 1 1 - . . . .
.\gt ; * \#166 ; * i .\#166 ; ..* .
' ... .
v ' .
ixi .
* This word is used to designate the stages up to and including the emergence of active protozoa from their resting cysts .
t Ehumbler , L. , 'Zeitschr .
fur wissen .
Zool. , M888 , voh 46 , p. 571 .
; .
it .
Ct 178 Mr. T. Goodey .
A Contribution to our [ May 19 , The foregoing experiments with soils and resting cysts show that , as regards time , the first ciliated protozoa were revealed in soil cultures only after about one and a half hours .
This is the shortest time observed , and no ciliated protozoa have been found earlier than this ; as a rule the incubation period is rather longer .
The incubation period for the excystation of Col. cucullus from resting cysts is from two to four hours .
In appearance , the first ciliated protozoa to occur in soil cultures are clear , and have a finely granular protoplasm with a varying quantity of larger granules .
\gt ; They have no food vacuoles , and it is often possible , without staining , to distinguish the nuclear area as a denser region of protoplasm .
In one or two cases the meganucleus with its micronucleus has been well seen in Col. cucullus without staining .
Especially noteworthy are the three free-swimming , cylindrical vorticellid forms ( Plate 4 , fig. 11 ) .
The ordinary form of Vorticella is stalked and attached , whilst the cylindrical , free-swimming form , without food vacuoles , is characteristic of but recent emergence from a resting cyst .
Recently excysted Col. cucullus are easily recognisable by their clear protoplasm , their readily distinguishable nuclear area , and by the absence of food vacuoles .
( g ) Summary and Conclusions.\#151 ; 1 .
Given the opportunity for ciliated protozoa to live actively and multiply on the surface of the soil , with the production of resting cysts on the occurrence of conditions adverse to further growth , it is possible to account for the ciliates which develop in soil cultures .
The resting cysts produced on the surface would gradually be washed down into the soil , where they would remain .
Many of these would , no doubt , lose their vitality after a long time , whilst others would be capable of excystation when once they came to the surface and conditions favourable to their growth prevailed .
2 .
The incubation periods observed for the first ciliated protozoa which appear in soil cultures ( 1\#163 ; to 3 or 4 hours ) and for the earliest Colpoda to emerge from resting cysts ( 2 to 4 hours ) are comparable .
Comparable periods required for appearance indicate a similarity in the condition of the protozoa at the commencement of the experiment , viz. , the encysted condition .
3 .
The first Colpoda to occur in soil cultures are very similar in appearance to those which have just emerged from resting cysts .
The protoplasm is generally clear , the nuclear area is distinct and easily visible without staining , and no food vacuoles are present .
If the Colpoda had been free-living and actively devouring bacteria in the soil , they must certainly have possessed food vacuoles .
This indicates that the ciliated protozoa of the soil are present only in the condition of resting cysts .
1911 .
] Knowledge of the Protozoa of the Soil , 179 4 Soils stored under conditions very favourable to bacterial activity , and presumably to protozoal activity , if such is possible in the soil , give every indication that the first ciliated protozoa to occur in cultures have developed from resting cysts .
Moist soil fresh from the field only yields ciliates slowly .
The first Colpoda to appear from the soil to which they had been added in active condition , only occur after sufficient time has elapsed for emergence from resting cysts .
The protoplasm resembles that of recently excysted Golpoda .
These facts indicate that the free-living organisms added to the soil had not remained in the active condition , but had encysted .
General Conclusion.\#151 ; The ciliated protozoa which are so characteristic a feature of cultures made from soil only exist in the soil in an encysted condition .
In consequence , they cannot function as the factor limiting bacterial activity in the soil .
From the nature of the methods employed in the galvanotaxis experiments it is only possible , as yet , to deal with ciliated protozoa ; amcebse and flagellates are not dealt with .
For this reason the inferences drawn only apply to ciliates .
In conclusion , I desire to offer my best thanks to Mr. A. D. Hall , and to the Laws Agricultural Trust , for the facilities afforded me to carry out the work at this station .
Especially grateful am I to Dr. H. B. Hutchinson , with whom I have been intimately associated during the course of the work , for the unfailing assistance which he has given me , both by suggestion and criticism .
To Prof. F. W. Gamble I should also like to express my thanks for bringing me into touch with the work and for much valuable criticism .
I am also indebted to the Birmingham Natural History and Philosophical Society for a grant from the " Endowment of Besearch Fund .
" LITERATURE .
1 .
Biitschli , O. , Bronn 's ' Klassen des Thier-reichs , Protozoa , ' 1889 .
2 .
Dobell , C. C. , " The Structure and Life History of subtilis " * Q. J. Micr .
Sci. , ' 1908 , vol. 52 , p. 75 .
3 .
Doflein , F. , 'Lehrbuch der Protozoenkunde , ' Jena , 1909 .
4 Enriques , P. , " Sulla Morfologia e Sistematica del Genere , " 'Arch , de Zool. , ' 4th Series , p. 8 ; ' Notes et Revue , ' p. 1 .
5 .
Hickson , S. J. , in ' A Treatise on Zoology .
Part 1.\#151 ; Protozoa , ' 1st and 2nd Fascicles , 1903 and 1909 .
6 .
Kent , S. , 'A Manual of the Infusoria , ' London , 1880\#151 ; 1882 .
7 .
Kiister , E. , ' Kultur der Mikroorganismen , ' Leipzig , 1907 .
S. Maupas , E. , " Contrib. a l'6tude morph , et anat .
des Infusoires cilies , " 'Arch , de Zool. , ' 1883 , 2nd Series , vol. 1 , p. 427 .
Goo day .
J 180 " ContriiM| W Knowledge of tU Proton of ^ .
tJnn and Systematic Arrangement of the Infusoria 9 .
gchewiakoff , W , The ^"l^age ) , 'Mem .
Acad. Sci. , St. Petersburg , 'p|| asperotricha fw ^ Series 8 , voL 4 .
jn Engler and Prantl 's ' Pflanzenfamilien , ' Leipzig ; 1900 .
EXPLANATION of PLATE 4 .
Fig. 1.Fig .
2 \#151 ; Fig. 3.\#151 ; Fig. 4.\#151 ; Fig. 5\#151 ; Fig. 6\#151 ; Kg .
7^mZS^hormdongaMs .
x 1200 .
Lateral view , stained methyl green , mega-an !
micro-nucleus showing .
, Eig .
8.\#151 ; Plewrotricha grandis ?
x 610 .
Ventral view .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; Qmwstrmvm affine , x 760 .
Ventral view .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; Vorticella microstoma .
x610 .
From a living example of the stalked form .
Fig. II , \#151 ; iVoriicella microstoma.x760 .
The free-swimming , recently excysted form with aboral ciliary ring .
The figures were all drawn with the aid of the camera.lucida .
X1200 .
Stained with methyl green , showing the two flag* arising from the o^r^nud^m^zone|eid^nhain , s hematoxylin .
^ X1200 ; Dorsal view , showing mega-and micro-nucleus .
G9H itTem^roflnd *-w cgZZUm. .
x610 .
An example developing within the endocyst .
Nuclei La Shown as a dense circular area .
Mass o( excretion matter also present Colpoda steinii .
X1200 .
Stained with methyl green ; showing mega-and micro. .

