412 Mr. J , Starkie Gardner .
Fossil Plants and the [ Dec. 17 , II .
" Second Report on the Evidence of Fossil Plants regarding the Age of the Tertiary Basalts of the North-East Atlantic .
" By J. Starkie Gardner .
Communicated by Sir J. D. Hooker , K.C.S.I. , E.R.S. Received November 30 , 1885 .
I have the honour to make known the results attending the expenditure of \#163 ; 75 , placed in my hands by the Government Grant Committee for the purpose of investigating the fossil floras of Scotland , which has been expended at Ardtun Head .
The position and physiography of this headland in the Isle of Mull has been fully described by the Duke of Argyll .
It is the point of land separating Loch Laigh and Loch Scridain , and is about two miles in circumference and a mile across .
It is composed mainly of two sheets of basalt with remains of a third sheet , on some eminences and along the shore of Loch Laigh .
These are almost horizontal , with a slight dip east , up Loch Scridain , and a considerable dip in the same direction up Loch Laigh .
The upper sheet is not less than 40 to 50 feet thick , crystallised into rude massive columns , now much fissured and weathered , whilst the lowest presents a thickness of 60 feet , visible above low ' water , the upper two-thirds being amorphous , and the rest fashioned into slendei and most perfect columns , bent in every direction , like those of the Clam-shell cave at Staffa .
The beds are so exceedingly horizontal towards the seaward direction , that no one can doubt the columnai basalts of Staffa and the Tresnnish Isles , Geometra and the mainland of Mull , being on the same horizon , if not parts of the same sheet .
Between the two great lava beds at Ardtun is intercalated a bed of sedimentary deposit , reaching a maximum of 60 feet thick , and consisting of pale very fine-grained clay and limestone at the base , then sand and gravel , black laminated shales , whinstone , gravel , and laminated sands .
The gravels are made up of flint , pebbles , and subangular rolled fragments of older lava beds , in a matrix of broken-down volcanic material .
They present all the ordinary lines of current bedding , beautifully weathered out , and the pebbles are drifted precisely as in ordinary river gravels .
There can be no question whatever , indeed , but that the gravels are the deposits of the waterway of a river , and the shales , its overflow 's and backwaters .
The river must have been of some magnitude , as its deposits traverse the whole seaward face of the headland , and theii extension inland seems to be marked by the occurrence of two beds of coal , w'hich have , to a small extent , been worked , one near Bunessan and the other nearer Ardtun village .
An intrusive sheet of fine compact basalt rises on one side of the head , cutting a devious wav 1885.J Age 'f ^ie Tertiary Basalts of the A tlantic .
through each bed in turn , and dipping beneath the sea at the other extremity On the coast , near the centre of the head , occurs a small Aine apparently dne to the weathering out of a vertical dyke , which Ss Jut through the gravels and shales , and left them m a very accessible position ; it was here , accordingly , that I resolved to excavate \#166 ; f.Vlom __ A .
ir with the assistance of the Duke of Argyll 's energetic factor , Mr. Sinclair men and tools and a barrel of powder were forthcoming , and after a few days ' work and the removal of a mass of the intensely indurated shingle bed , to the extent of perhaps hundreds of tons , many square yards of the whinstone and the underlying black shales were exposed The large specimens of Platamtes acerordes and Onoclea hebridica , now exhibited , were the results The new specimens of the latter including fertile as well as barren fronds , give a very different idea of its growth to what would have been imagined from those formerly known , and we see that the pinna , were produced on very long and stout naked stems .
The ravine , however , proved an unfor-tunate selection , for the whinstone became poorer in fossils as we got farther in , and the underlying black shales though crowded with leaves , proved so squeezed and full of slickensides or faulted surfaces , and , consequently , so brittle as to he practically vatoeless for coilect .
ins purposes .
The lighter limestone is wholly absent at this spot .
From the condition of the shales and calcined appearance of the travels\#151 ; here of a steely-grey colour , intensely hard with pure white \#166 ; fnd occasionally cherry-coloured flints , it is evident that he ravine must be the site of an old dyke , and if proof were wanting of a violent upthrust at this spot , it is to be found in the upturned edges of the bottom bed on the west face .
The succession of beds in the section we had been so laboriously working at in the ravine , ^ no way prepared me for the discovery I made subsequently , that within 100 yards there existed , many feet below the lowest sedimentary bed present m the ravine , a deposit of limestone , rivalling in fineness and texture the celebrated lithographic stone of Solenhofen , and containing , as expressed by Professor Newberry , " most exquisitely preserved leaves .
On removing some turf , in order to obtain a true section , I was overjoyed to find this deposit , so completely different in character to any previously seen in the basalts .
It may seem strange that itshould have been overlooked by the many geologists who have visnted t e spot ; but the beds are in a very inaccessible position , and to wort them dangerous , until sufficient had been worked away to attord standing room .
Quarry men could not be induced to work t ere a all , but two boatmen did not make any objection .
It is too early to attempt as yet to give any account of the new flora , which seems to differ considerably from that of the shales above Very large leaves of many kinds occur in the clay at the base , which 414 Aye of the Tertiary Basalts the Atlantic .
[ Dec. 17 , was so friable , however , that only fragments could be secured .
The leaves in the limestone are smaller and very sparsely scattered through it ; there are , moreover , no cleavage planes , and hence much patience is required to obtain and develop them .
I have obtained about twentv species of dicotyledon from it , the most prevalent being Grewia Hr .
, and Corylus MacQuarrii , Forbes , and Acer Hr .
, all of which are also found in beds of the same age in Greenland .
There are no ferns and only three conifers , a large variety of Guilago toides , Unger , a new Podocarpus , the most northerly species I believe yet found , and Taxus Gamphelli .
The fragments from the clays show about eight additional species , and altogether I should judge that both floras were very rich .
All the conifers occur also in the shales , and a specimen of Guilago has long been in the collection at Inverary .
The most characteristic plants of the shales are those described by the Duke of Argyll and Edward Forbes , Platanites aceroides and nites multinervis .
Ta , xites Gamphelli is not , as affirmed by Heer , identical with Sequoia Langsdorfii , but appears to be a true Taxus .
Some other leaves are certainly referable to and we have representatives apparently of leaves determined as Alnus , Gornus , Berchenia , Populus , and Corylus\#151 ; but among them there are none , so far as I can ascertain , that have ever been found in European beds of Miocene age .
This is a point , however , upon which I do not wish to insist at present , farther than to say , that the flora seems to bear a prima facie resemblance to cretaceous floras of America rather than to any yet known from Europe .
The resemblance of the Coniferm to those indigenous to China at the present day , is too remarkable to be overlooked .
It has become evident that the fluviatile rocks of the British basalts are of far greater extent and importance than had hitherto been imagined .
Before the complete account of them , which I hope later on to prepare , can be proceeded with , their position in the series has to be fixed , their lateral extension to be mapped .
The first of these points is fortunately not difficult to settle .
The base of the basalts is exposed at Burg Head on the opposite side of Loch Scridain , resting upon Jurassic rocks and fragmentary masses of chalk .
The base of the series seems formed of two immense sheets of ash , the lowest of which is full of scoriae , and about 100 feet above these , resting upon columnar basalt , in every respect similar to that of Ardtun Head , are fluviatile beds , sands and clays from 9 to 12 feet thick .
Overlying these is a bed of rudely columnar basalt , and taking account of all the circumstances , there cannot be much doubt about the fluviatile series on both sides of the loch being upon the same horizon .
The beds are , in fact , seen to be horizontal to the west as far as the eye can reach .
The horizon of the Ardtun gravels would , therefore , seem to be about 150 feet from the base of the series .
41 r\gt ; 2^35 - ] On Trichophyton tonsurans .
Taking into account the superior thickness of the basalts in Mull , and above all the presence of ash beds at their base , it seems probable that they were nearer the vents than Antrim , and that their lowest beds are at least not newer , so that the Mull leaf-beds at 150 feet from the base should be much older than the Glenarm and Ballypaladv leaf-beds at 600 feet from the base .
The horizontal extent of the fluviatile beds of Mull is more difficult to estimate .
Gravel is mentioned as present at Loch Truadh , to the north-west , and at Carsaig to the east .
In the latter locality it is , perhaps , thicker and more extensive than at Ardtun .
The horizon should also be found in two of the Treshnish isles and round the north-west coast of Mull , and there can be little doubt but that deposits of plants exist in many localities besides Ardtun .
Black shales , with identical leaves , have been found in Canna , and leaflets \#166 ; oi Taxus or a similar foliaged conifer at Uig .
Though the fluviatile beds at Bourg are unfossiliferous , a very interesting relic of the Eocene vegetation occurs there , for a large tree , with a trunk 5 feet in diameter , has been enveloped as it stood to a'height of 40 feet , by one of the underlying lava beds .
Its solidity and o-irth enabled it to resist the fire , but it subsequently decayed , leaving a hollow cylinder filled in with debris and lined apparently with the charred wood .
There is also the limb of a larger tree in a fissure not far off .
The wood proves to be coniferous , belonging possibly to the Podocarpus whose leaves are so conspicuous in the beds above .
Ill " Addition to a former Paper on Trichophyton tonsurans .
( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 33 , p. 234 .
) By George Thin , M.D. Communicated by Prof. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received December 3 , 1885 .
In the " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 33 , p. 234 , 1881 , a paper of mine is published on " Trichophyton tonsurans .
Since the time that the investigations recorded in that paper were made , the study of parasitic fungi has been greatly facilitated by the introduction by Dr. Koch of gelatinised meat juice as a medium foi cultivation , and having again studied the development of trichophyton with the advantages derived from the use of this medium , I believe that two results which I have obtained might be usefully published as a supplement to the paper referred to .
The gelatinised meat juice which I used was peptonised and neutralised , and trichophyton grew on it readily and with certainty .
In my previous experiments ( in which I used vitreous humour ) I had succeeded in growing the fungus when the hairs containing the

