]\gt ; 1888 .
] Linear Diferential Eqnations .
II .
" " Invariants , ovariants , and Quotient Derivatives associated with Linear Differential Equations By A. R. SITH , , F.R.S. , Fellow of College , Cambridge .
Received January 7 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The present memoir deals with the covariantive forms associated with the general ordinary linear diiferential equation ; it is strictly limited to the consideration of those forms , without any discussion of their critical characte The most general transformation , to which such equation can be subjected without change of linearity or of order , is one whereby the dependent variable is transformed to by a relation , and , at the same time , the independent variable is changed to and , when these transformations are effected on so that it becomes there are relations between the coefficients and ; and and may manifestly , without loss of generality , be taken equal to unity .
It is shown that , from these relations , can be deduced which are of the type , where is an algebraical function of the coefficient their derivatives .
Such a function is called an invarianl of index ; and irreducible invariants are of two classes , fundamental and derived .
It is convenient to have expressions for the invariants when the differential equation has an implicitly gene canonicaI form .
In the first place it may be supposed and are both zel .
O ; otherwise both equations can by substitutions of for and for be reduced to forms in which the terms the differential coefficients of the dependent variable do not occur .
The relation between the dependent variables is now Mr. A. B. Forsyth .
lnvariants , ; [ Jan. 12 , and the expressions of the simplest invariants are ' similar expressions being obtained for and .
The expression for each of the invariants of this class is shown to consist of two parts , one of which is linear in the coefficients and their derivatives , the other of which is not linear but every term contains as a factor either or some derivative of It is then proved that there is an implicitly general form of the equation for which both and vanish ; this form , taken as the canonicaI form , is obtainable ( as is known from earlier investi by the prevlous determination of the multiplier of the dependent variable and by the determination of the independent riable from the equation or its equivalent , where For this canonical form of equation the expressions of the foregoing invariants are g1ven in the form where is unity and , for values of greater than 1 , These invariants are called priminvariants .
The proof of these results occupies the second section of the memoir .
The first section is devoted to a short historical sketch of the growth of the subject , reference being made to the investigations of .
Cockle , Laguerre , Brioschi , Malet , and , especially , of HaIphen , all of whom have , so far as concerns the heory of forms , discussed either seminvariants only or , with the single exception of for the ntic , inassociated with ations .
variants of the cubic and the quartic in forms which differ from the c.anonical form herein adopted .
In the third section derived invariants are obtained , all in their canonical forms ; they are derived from the priminvariants by one or other of two processes called the iderivative and the Jacobian .
irreducible invariants are anged in classes according to their degrees .
The quadrinvariants of functions , and of independent functions of the form ; and every class of iants of degree higher than the second contains invariants , each in class associated one of the priminvariauts in successive derivation to the law Propositions relating to the dependence of the derived invariants are proved in the section ; and simpler equivalent forms are obtained later in the memoir .
In the fourth section covariants are discussed .
The transformation of the dependent variable in the second section shows that , with the adopted definition of invariance , reproduction save as to a power of , the dependent variable is a covariant .
A set of dependent variables , with the original dependent variable , is obtained by the application of a theorem due to Clebsch .
Denoting these by , . . . .
, , for the untransformed equation , and by , . . . .
, , for the ormed equation , we , so that these associate variables are covariants .
The variable satisfies a linear differential equation of order ; and , in is the variable of Lagrange 's " " adjoint\ldquo ; equation .
The following inferences relating to these variables and equations are made:\mdash ; ( ae ) The dependent variables form a complete system , that is , functional combinations of them , similar to those by which are obtained , are expressible in lerms of membel .
S of the system ; The associate linear equations in variables which have the same index are mutually ; The invariants of the associate linear equations are ible in terms of the invariants of the original equation . .
A. B. orsyth .
\amp ; c [ Jan. 12 , In the fifth section these dependent variables are treated in the same manner as the priminvariants in the third , and give two classes of covariants , which in their canonical form involve dependent variables only , and mixed covariants , which involve dependent variables and coefficients of the original equation .
The former class includes series of covariants , each involving only one of the dependent variables ; the law of successive formation is for each of the associate variables .
But other functions which involve more than one of the variables , e.g. , the Jacobian of two of them , are omitted , .
they can be algebraically compounded by means of the mixed covariants .
The number of independent identical covariants in the succession is one less than the order of the equation satisfied by the variable : but a modification of this number is necessary when they are considered as covariants of a differential quantic instead of being considered covariants of a differential equation .
For in this case we must either retain the quantic and all derivatives \mdash ; when is no modification of the number of identical covariants ; or the number is unlimited , and then the quan'tic and its derivatives are composite .
The mixed covariants which are irreducible are proved to consist only of first Jacobians of some one of the invariants and all the dependent variables in The aggregate of the concomitants is constituted by the three clnsses of functions thus obtained , , invariants , identical covariants , and mixed covariants .
In the sixth section the results derived are applied to equations of the second , the third , and the fourth orders ; solely , however , for the sake of illustration and not for purposes of critical disoussion of classes of these equations .
For the equation of the second order the only result obtained is a reproduction of Schwarz 's theorem ; the equation has no invariant .
For the equation of the third order , the canonical form of which is and which has a single priminvariant , one or two questions are solved ; in particular , the differential equation satisfied by the quotient of two solutions of the cubic is obtained , and there thence deduced a quotient-derivative , which the analogue of Schwarz 's derivative for the quadratic .
For the equation of the fourth order there are two canonical forms , 1888 .
] qsociated with Linear Equations .
to which the explicitly general quartic can be reduced by the solution of linear differential equations of the second and the third order respectively .
The differeniia ] equation satisfied by the quotient of two solutions of the quartic is obtained ; and in this connexion there rises a quartic quotient-derivative .
Finally , the associate equations of the qual'bic are formed ; and it is veriIied that all their invariants are expressible in terms of the invariants of the original } The seventh section is really a ession from the main subject of the ttper ; it concerned with the special class of functions which occur ] preceding section and are called quotient-derivatives .
The quotient-derivatives of lowest order are ; ; and so on ; in these the differential coefficient of highest order occul.s is of odd order , and thence these derivatives are said to be odd order .
The two most important propositions which relate to them are , first , if then where ; and second , that the law of change for homographic transformation of both variables is There is then investigated the series of similar functions of even in the form ' and so on ; a connexion between the two classes is given .
NIT .
Forsyth .
Linear rential Equations .
[ Jan. 12 , Up to this point the results in the memoir which relate to the derivation of covariantive forms have been synthetically obtained ; the eighth ( and last ) section relates to their analytical derivation .
It is shown that , for a homographic transforrllation of the independent riable applied concurrently with the proper transformation of the dependent variable , the canonical form of the differential equation is maintained .
These t , ransforma , tions are applied to prove , by the method of infinitesimal variation , that every concomitant in its canonicaI form satisfied the linear partial differential equation where This is called the form-equation .
Such a concomitant also satisfies the equation where is the index of the concomitant .
This is called the index equation ; and , when the form of is know .
, it merely determines which can be written down from an inspection of the concomitant .
These equations are applied , ( i ) to the identical covariants in , \mdash ; ( ii ) to the invariants derived from \mdash ; for each of which simplffied equivalent functions are obtained for derivaGives of order higher than the third , \mdash ; and ( iii ) to verify that the Jacobian of a priminvariant and any of its derived invariants satisfies the equaGions .
Lastly , by means of the theory of partial differential equations , it is proved that the aggregate of concomitants obtained in tho earlier part of the memoir complete , that is , that any concomitant can be expressed as an gebralcal function of the members of that aggregate .

