On the Change in the Plumage of some Hen-Pheasants .
By William Yarrell , Esq. F.L.S. Communicated by William Morgan , Esq. F.R.S. , March 19 , 1827 .
Read May 10 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 268 .
] The last shooting season having been unusually productive of henpheasants , which have assumed more or less the plumage and appearance of the male , much discussion in consequence has arisen on the cause of this change ; and the author having had many opportunities of examining the facts , both as respecting the pheasant and domestic fowl , was induced to notice the internal peculiarities which invariably accompany this transformation .
According to an opinion of Mr. J. Hunter and of Mr. Butter , this change only takes place at an advanced age ; but the author considers the facts in his possession as at variance with this idea , and that the appearances in question may occur at any period of life , and may even be produced artificially .
In all the instances examined by him , the sexual organs were found diseased , and to a greater or less extent in proportion to the change of plumage .
The ovarium was shrunk , purple , and hard ; the oviduct diseased , and the canal obliterated at the upper part , immediately preceding its funnel-shaped enlargement at the bottom of the ovarium .
Having opened a hen-pheasant in its natural plumage , for the sake of comparison , he found a similar diseased state of the organs to exist ; thus proving that the disease must exist some time before the corresponding change of feathers takes place .
He then observes , that it is no uncommon thing to find , among numerous broods of pheasants reared by hand , some females , which , at the age of only four months , produce the brightest plumage of the male ; and in two instances of birds shot in a wild state , the nest feathers had not been shed , proving them to have been birds of the year .
A partridge , having a white bar across the breast , and the first three primary feathers in each wing white , being opened , exhibited the same sort of organic disease ; and from circumstances adduced , it appears that this was also a bird of the year .
All variations in plumage , however , are not traceable to this cause .
In most of the excepted instances , however , the individuals are dwarf birds , and the author attributes their variety of plumage to defective secretion , the effect of weakness .
When the sexual organs are artificially obliterated in the common fowl ; in the male bird , so soon as this operation is performed , he ceases to crow ; the comb and gills do not attain their full size ; the spurs remain short and blunt ; and the feathers of the neck assume an appearance intermediate between the hackled appearance of the cock , and the ordinary web of the hen .
The operation on the female being performed ( by obliterating the oviduct ) , the ova cease to enlarge ; she makes an imperfect attempt to crow ; the comb increases in size ; and short and blunt spurs make their appearance .
The plumage also alters both in colour and form , and approaches that of the cock ; and the bones of the lower part of the back never acquire that enlargement requisite for giving a proper breadth to the pelvis .
In short , the two sexes by this process approximate so nearly in character , that it is frequently difficult to determine the sex .
In the case of hen-pheasants , they assume the plumage of the male at best but imperfectly , and it is probable that they do not live many years after the change .
The author concludes by regarding it as a general law , that where the sexes of animals are indicated by external characters , these undergo a change , and assume a neutral appearance whenever original malformation , subsequent disease , or artificial obliteration , has deprived these organs of their true influence .

