]\gt ; sticity of Rubber Balloons Hollow Visc By Prof. W. A. OSBORNE , with a Note by W. LAND .
( Communicated by Prof. J. N. Langley , F.R.S. Received July 5 , 1909 .
) From Laboratory , University Melbourne .
Int ?
oductory In an elastic balloon the relation between the internal excess pressure and the tension of the wall can be readily calculated if we assume that the balloon is spherical and that the material is neous and of negligible weight .
If we suppose the balloon divided into two hemispheres by a plane horizontal partition , the area of this partition will be and the downward force on the upper surface due to the excess pressure will be .
The balloon wall meets the partition at right angles a .
Hence if is the tension in the ] , the upward force exerted by this tension on the partition is .
But as these two forces must be equal we have , so that When such a balloon is filled without s the wall the pressure inside is equal to the prevailing atmospheric , and the radius may be termed the initial radius .
If we assume that the balloon is perfectly obedient to Hooke 's law , then ; but from ( 1 ) we learn that ; hence , by substitution , ) , .
or K. ( 2 ) That is to say , the will increase with radius asymptotically to 2 , and if we plot radius against pressure we cQhall obtain a hyperbola .
The of the research was to the elastic behaviour of various hollow viscera .
Before so I decided , , to calry out a of with rnbbel balloons , the ) found with arying radii as ftldamental data .
This xessarcll ] ) leted before I became , from a in ' der ischen ysik , a similaltiou 1beell ( on by R. du -Reymond , and the ) bliQ iu ' ) rift fiir ' On tainiug the latter , 1 found suliicient cliftereuce in ttUent of lbject to warraI ) publicntio ] ] of this .
[ A Mallock , ' .
Soc. ' , p. 4 ] VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; B. ) Prof W. A. Osborne and Mr. W. Sutherland .
[ July 5 , Methods .
The balloons were of the common variety sold as children 's toys , and were of varying sizes .
A balloon was firmly tied to a capillary cannula and held vertically in a glass flask which was immersed up to the neck in an Ostwald thermostat .
The temperature of the latter was kept ( with a maximum variation of C. ) at C. The glass cannula was connected by means of fine-bore pressure-tubing to one limb of a capillary -piece , a second limb of which led to .
a water manometer , whilst the third limb was connected with a burette for admitting measured volumes of air .
The connecting tubes were made as short and of as narrow bore as possible so that the contained volume of air could be neglected in calculation .
The burette at its lower end was connected with a levelling tube containing mercury , and at its upper end had a three-way tap .
In one position of the tap a sample of air of definite volume and at atmospheric pressure could be taken from the outside air ; on the tap being turned this air could be driven through the connecting tubes into the balloon , the mercury being accurately brought to the beginning of the bore of the tap .
Conversely , the balloon could be deflated in measured decrements by the same burette .
The water manometer consisted of a straight glass tube of 3 mm. bore firmly tied to a vertical scale , and connected at its base with a shorter vertical tube on which was a mark .
By means of a three-w taP , capable of connecting the manometer either with the outside air or with an elevated reservoir of water , the level of the water in the shorter limb could be brougl ) to its mark , allowing direct readings to be made from the scale as well as in the volume of the tube system .
The radius of the balloon was calculated from the volume of the air admitted by usual formula .
This involved two , first that the balloon was spherical , and secondly , the volume of the enclosed air { 09 .
] Elasticity of Rubber lloons and Hollow Viscera .
487 was the same as that of the air admitted at atmospheric pressure .
With the exception of the early stages of inflation and last stages of deflation , when the radius approached the initial value , the balloon could be arded as a true sphere .
As , further , the greatest pressure within the balloon was always a negligible fraction of the prevailing atmospheric , I have not it necessary to make any calculated correction os to the volume of the contained air .
When experiments were performed on a hollow viscus , some water was placed in the yartially immersed flask , and a few drops placed in the interior of the viscus itself so that the air within and without should be saturated with water vapour .
Experiments on Balloons .
When air was admitted in measured increments to a fresh balloon , and the reading taken a definite time ( three minutes ) after entrance of each increment , it was found that the pressure rose quickly to a maximum and then on continued inflation fell slowly .
This is typically exemplified in the experiment illustrated graphically in fig. 2 .
FIG. 2 .
It will be seen from this experiment that , over a considerable , two values radius can be given for each value of pressure .
This can be demonstrated as a class experiment in the way : Two balloons of Prof. W. A. Osborne and Mr. W. Sutherland .
[ July 5 , equal dimensions are tied to two limbs of a -tube and inflated by the third limb , can be closed by a tap .
As a rule one of the balloons inflates well , ) other remaining small .
On closing the tap in the inflating tube tlJe contents of one balloon can be discl ) arged into the other by with the hand .
If the air be worked backwards and forwards a few times to equalise the " " history\ldquo ; of each , it will be found that if the balloons are approximately equal in volume they will remain so for a few seconds , in a state of unstable equilibrium , and then one of the balloons will partially deflate itself the other .
The balloon which is now the , if squeezed until its volume is slightiy less than that of the other and then let go , will continue to deflate until equilibrium is reached .
These ) ental results appeared to be utterly at variance with what was deducible from the theory of a perfectly elastic balloon .
Amongsb the many articles with the elasticity of rubber to which I had access , I found one which promised to throw some light on my results .
O. Frank* assumes a somewhat modified Hooke 's law .
According to him the pressure in a sample of section and length associated with a shortening is iven by the formula in which unit initial length and unit initial cross sectional area are not considered , but length and area such as they are when the change is produced .
If is the .
original length and the final , he calls the specific extension .
For the total tension in a strip of unit width and of initial thickness his final resuIt on p. 608 can be written this value of in equation ( 1 ) , we get But in the case of the balloon the specific therefore .
to this equation the pressure an balloon will rise to a when , and will approach to zero when increases indelinitely .
But I may say at once that this approach to zero pressure is never given in balloon experiments , so that Frank 's analysis ails to explain the results .
One may indeed state priori Chat as alen der s-k , vol. 21 , p. 602 , 1906 .
1909 .
] Elasticity of Rubber Balloons and Hollow Viscera .
489 on elasticity are generally confined to substances where the maximum extension is always a small fraction of the initial length , and as Frank 's experiments did not follow rubber further than linear extensions to double the initial , it would be almost idle to expect that laws deduced from these experiments could be applicable to the large and two dimensional of an inflated balloon .
The difficulty explainintY the rise of pressu1e and the subsequent partial fall on inflation is , I belieye , more apparent than real .
This crest is due , I take it , to a disturbing factor which , for lack of a better name , may be called initial rigidity .
This view is supported by the facts:\mdash ; 1 .
If fresh balloon is inflated , so that the pressure is anywhere on the rise or fall of the crest , it will be found that the pressnre does not remain at a constant value .
but tends to fall .
In fact , to obtain a yraph such as , the convention had to be adopted of the pressure after a iven interval of time\mdash ; 3 minutes .
But the fall had by no means stopped when the reading was taken , and could ) detected even some honrs after inflation .
An attempt to } inter the pressure after a loncro interval of time when no further fall be expected , failed owing to the fact that some of the air diffused out , as was proved by deflating the balloon in IlJeasured decrements .
2 .
If a balloon is inflated a second time ( care taken that the elastic limit has not been reached in the first inflation ) the crest is always less pointed than in the first inHation .
A third inHation ives a more obtuse convexity than the econd , and so on .
The a balloon remains collapsed the steeper is the rise and fall of pressure 011 inflation .
This is particularly marked if the collapsed balloon is exposed to 3 .
Wherl an inflated balloon is deflated in measured decrements and the corres o pressures recorded , in the vast majority of cases the pressnre falls to zero withont ally rise manifested .
I obtained this pronounced hysteresis constantly in my earlicr iments , and inclined to look upon it as the iable bviour of a tion .
raphs for two typical tances .
But a rise of ) ressure t ) obCained 011 tion if conditions are fulhlled .
) } be in good inflation ) not be taken fttr past the nunl pressnre , and the return by tion sonld be catl.ied out at once .
lise of pressure , ever , is never than a few illilnetres of better condition the tbber is the blunter is inflation crcst the less } ) is of ) Convelsely , the the rubbcr been exposed in deHated state to is the and nor abrupt is Prof W. A. Osborne and Mr. W. Sutherland .
[ July 5 , meCres .
FIG. 3 .
I may mention in this connection that if inflation be carried out immediately after deflation the rise of pressure does not follow the same gradient as the deflation fall .
It is much steeper , and a crest may be obtained .
An illustrative specimen is the following ( fig. ) It is easy to demonstrate , however , that the more a balloon is inflated and 1909 .
] Elasticity of Rubber Balloons Hollow .
491 deflated , provided that the elastic limit is not approached too closely , the nearer does the inflation pressure radiant approach the deflation .
We may regard this as due to the partial removal of the disturbing initial idiGy .
4 .
If a balloon be inflated until the pressure , after the usual crest , falls and tends to remain constant , and be kept inflated for some time , say 24 hours , and then be rapidly deflated and once more inflated in measured increments , the graph displays no crest and may be a true hyperbolic curve .
The following experiment illustrates this important fact : A balloon was inflated until the pressure ceased falling , and was kept inflated in the thermostat for 24 hours .
It was theu rapidly deflated and the usual inflation by the burette commenced .
On pressure against radius ( fig. 5 ) , I was struck by the regularity of the raph , and recollecting that a balloon of perfect icity would a ular hyperbola , Radius in FI proceeded to ascertain if such were the case here .
If this were a hyperbola , the asymptotes parallel to the co-ordinate axes , it to satisfy the equation To calculate and I used the ordinary method .
The value for was found to be , that of From radius to dius the product is a constant .
To illustrate this we can plot ainst the reciprocal of , and should obtain a line passing the origin .
This is shown in Prof W. A. Osborne and Mr. W. Sutherland .
[ July 5 , 4 6 8 r-aI4 FIG. 6 .
As another instance of the applicability of this equation to a balloon , the deflation values already given in fig. 3 may be cited .
Calculation by the three-point method gives here Conclusive as these values are that the rubber balloon , when initial rigidity is removed , follows the equation , it will be at once obvious , from the values of and found here , that this is certainly not the behaviour of a perfectly elastic substance equation ( 2 ) .
For one thing , the value for is far removed from zero and is close to that of the initial radius in the two cases inyestigated .
I abandoned the theoretical analysis of my results at this stage , and handed over my data on balloons and on bladders to Mr. William Sutherland , who has kindly complied with my request to comment upon them ( see p. 497 below ) .
Rubber at the Elastic In the course of this research a curious result was obtai with every balloon hich I beyond the elastic limit .
I invariably fonnd that , before the balloon burst , the pressure , ' a considerable , was a lin ear function of the vohlme .
Of the many instances obtained I will pick out two , one ivino a close approximation to a line volume inst .
of the more types that iven in fig. 8 , which is a cotttinuation of the satt ) xperin as As rnle , straight line rises discontinnity in the 1909 .
] Elasticity of Rubber Hollow FIG. 7 .
oIume cubic FIG. 8 .
Expc Hollow Visc In these experiments attention was chieHy to the bladder , its shape approaches nor closely to the spherical than other viscertL .
xpel i ments on proved impossible , owing to the enlal kably low sting pressure of the snperficial air cells .
A number of observationS were made with bladders taken from the recently killed , but the behaviour of the living muscular tissue did not allow of a debnite prcssure assigned to any of flation .
Consistent resnlts only be ined by with bladders some time ( 24 hours ) after of the animal .
Prof W. A. Osborn and Mr. W. Sutherland .
[ July 5 , Fig. 9 shows the results of an experiment with the bladder of a large Newfoundland dog 24 hours after death .
As with the balloon , I anticipated that here a hyperbolic curve was present , and calculated by the three-point method the value for to be to be 179 .
Here it will be seen that from radius to radius a distinct approximation to a ular FIG. 9 .
hyperbola is manifest .
But even here , though can be made zero without appreciably altering the constancy of , the value for likewise does not allow us to apply to this bladder the formula for a perfectly elastic substance .
A number of bladders of various animals were investigated .
I give here the results obtained with the bladders of two monkeys and a cat ( fig. 10 ) .
It must be remembered that the elastic tissue of a viscus is not a homogeneous membrane , but a web of elastic fibres with a variable amount of inextensible white fibres intermixed .
This fact must always complicate physical investigations on the elasticity of animal membranes , even if the isolated elastic fibres present obeyed some simple physical law .
* When we A research on the elastic constants of the ligamentum nuchoe is at present being conducted in my laboratory .
909 .
] Elasticity of Rubber lloons and Hollow .
495 consider the complex aeolotropism of a visceral wall , it is indeed surprising that approximations to uniform behaviour , such as are illustrated in should be shown at all .
1 3 3 .
4 Radiu FIG. 10 .
R. du Bois-Reymond has conjectured that in hollow viscel'a the pressure may fall with volume .
I may state at once that I have never found this .
What sometimes does happen ( and to this Du Bois-Reymond 's statement is possibly due ) is that , on extensive inflation , one of the coats of the organ may give way and lead to a marked drop in pressure .
The suddenness of the drop will always indicate the true nature of the fall , and if the be deflated and then inflated again , a consistent rise of pressure will be obtained .
Moreover , as I have endeavoured to show , a fall of pressure on continued inflation is only found in balloons lity , and such initial idity is altogether absent animal membranes kept moist .
A bladder always displays some hysteresis on deflation , but I have found that this hysteresis can be made ibly small\mdash ; ( l ) if the elastic limit is not approached too closely ; ( 2 ) if the inflation and deflation are car1ied out very small increments and decrements respectively ; and ( 3 ) if on deflation Prof W. A. Osborne and Mr. W. Sutherland .
[ July 5 , some time be allowed to elapse at each stage before reading the pressure , as this always tends to rise somewhat .
When the elastic limit of a bladder is reached , the radient of the pressure rise is very steep and the rise is not a linear function of the volume .
There is always a danger that in ations on elasticity one may forget that the viscus in question in the living animal is supplied with reactive muscle , and that only when this muscle is fully inhibited can the pure physical elasticity of the walls play a predominating part .
It is a mistake to describe the flow of blood in the systemic arteries as a flow of liquid in elastic tubes .
Such is certainly the case in the aorta , and possibly in the larger arteries , but in the arterioles and smaller arteries only when the muscle is fully inbibited or killed .
To describe the circulation as through a system of muscular tubes , with some elastic tissue the muscles , would be more accurate .
Similarly with the bladder and other hollow viscera ( except the , the elastic tissue acts merely as an adjuvant to the muscle , economisiIlg the work of the latter ; but it is the muscle which plays the preponderating part in determining the tension of the visceral wall .
Conclusions .
1 .
When initial idity is present in a rubber balloon , the pressure on inflation rises rapidly at first , then falls , and tends to remain at a constant value until the elastic limit is reached .
2 .
Such a balloon on deflation displays a marked hysteresis .
Only rarely will the pressure rise on deflation .
3 .
If initial rigidity be abolished by keeping a balloon inflated some time and then rapidly deflating , the pressure on a new inflation rises consistently .
On plotting pressure against radius in such cases a rectangular hyperbola may be obtained , the equation where is in order of magnitude to the initial radius , and is a constant greater than behaviour of such a balloon is , however , far removed from that of a sphere of perfectly elastic and isotropic material .
4 .
When the elastic limit is reached in a rubber balloon the pressure is a linear function of the volume .
Hollow viscera approximately spherical , such as the bladder , do not display initial rigidity , and never a fadl of pressure with increasing volunle .
When the elastic limit is ched , the pressure is nob a linear function of volume .
1909 .
] Elasticity of Rubber Balloons and Hollow Viscer 6 .
In the bladder of a large dog , ooiving sufficient between the assumption of lobular form and the elastic limit to allow analysis of the graph of pressure ainsC radius , it was found that the equation was followed .
In case was practically zero ; but like the rubber the behaviour was not that of a perfectly elastic and isotropic substance .
on the forego Papcr W. SUTHERLAND .
From the purely physical point of the simplest way to prepare for a theoretical itlterpretation of experiments such as these is to fix attention in the first instance on te lsiou per unit area .
Let the tension per be in the balloon or bladder which has radius , and thickness .
Let initial values of these , when , be and Consider the equiliblium of a hemisphere .
It expericuces a pull from the other hemisphere .
But on account of the excess ' of the pressure , inside the sphel.e over that outside the hemisphere is subject to a thrust ; thus or If , as in study n the surface tension of bubbles , we fix attention on , the total tension across unit width of cross-section of the bounding , and calI it , we have According to Hooke 's , we write where is a of elasticity appropriate to the conditions of the experiment , in the prescnt case are eqnal tensions in two dimensions and no external stress in the third dimensiotl .
substances such as rubber most aIlic t have a colllpressibility , small in isou with mabilily , for small is twice the 's nlodulns for s1nall strains .
But when are used , as in these experi1ncnts , call be treated a coustallt .
It is function of when we collparc of .
) Ollle 's formula vitfi ( 1 ) after elillination of by the relation a colll)licated function of Prof. W. A. Osborne and Mr. W. Sutherland .
[ July In the experiments with the bladder , : is nearly , so that this takes the simpler form , which is still too awkward for interpretation .
But to connect the results for the tissue of 's bladder with those for other tissues the modulus of elasticity can be regarded from a different point of view .
In experiments on dead muscle , for instance , the lluscle is stretched by different weights , the amount of by each being recorded .
As the muscle is lengthened its -section is diminished , but , as a rule , no account is taken of this fact .
This is because more interest is taken in the behaviour of the muscle as a whole , or of a representative muscle fibre , than in the intensity of the tension or the tension per cm.2 of cross-section of the muscle .
For the gastrocnemius of the frog stretched by amounts , by weights up to 95 grammes , C. Henry has shown*that the following formula holds : , ( 5 ) expressed in mm. and in grammes weight .
For other tissues with a wide of elastic properties , A Goy finds the same formula to apply with appropriate values in place of and .
But the physical explanation given for ( 5 ) by Henry is not sound , as he interprets in the form to mean that there is at the beginning a tonus of the muscle equivalent to a weight grammes .
If there is stress in the muscle at the beginning it must be self-equilibrating , and it is not correct mechanics to fix upon one parb of this internal stress , called the tonus , and treat it as a of a not otherwise demonstrable external force denoted above by .
But , guided by the success of ( 5 ) , we can arrive at a simpler formula which is capable of fitimate and easy physical explanation .
Let us suppose that the ation l caused by is related to by the following equation : , ( 6 ) where and are constants for a given tissue .
This means that the ation caused by unit weight , that is to say , diminishes with increasing in such a way that the diminution is linear in the total elongation produced by .
When , we have the usual Hooke 's law for small strains .
It is possible to give a theoretical molecular explanation of ( 6 ) , it would not be approprlate here .
In the case of the frog 's gastrocnemius , for values of from 30 to 95 grammes , it gives the ation l , with a maximum error of per cenlt .
, and from to 30 grammes with a maximum error of 16 per cent. , the 'Compt .
Rend vol. 162 , 1906 , p. 729 .
Ibid. , p. 1158 .
1909 .
] Elasticity of Rubber Balloons and Hollow Viscera .
499 corresponding error for ( 5 ) being 17 per cent. But it is probable that in neither case are these really errors of formula , because with the smaller there is liability to considerable experimental uncertainty while " " up the slack\ldquo ; of the specimen .
It is interesting to see how the type of formula ( 6 ) applies to Prof. Osborne 's experiments on the bladder of a .
We must treat the experimental facts so that they are as similar as possible to those of ] If we return to ( 1 ) we see that corresponds with the weight used to stretch muscle , although it stretches the bladder wall in two directions at right angles to one another .
The chief effect of this stretching in two directions is to replace as measured on a strip cut from the bladder wall and stretched only in one direction by 2 E. From the experiments we get , ( 7 ) with the following comparison:\mdash ; exper .
14 40 55 63 68 77 87 calc . . .
35 50 58 64 68 76 82 exper .
107 117 217 410 560 620 calc .
95 116 142 182 243 318 033 At the two lowest pressures after the discrepancy between calculation and experimenG is , but can plainly be ascribed to the taking up of slack in the experiments .
The formula fits the facts satisfactorily over the very reat eation from to .
Beyond that the formula ceases to give the connection between and in a useful manner , but on that account it by no means loses its physical significance .
If we write ( 7 ) in the form , ( 8 ) we see that for values of greater than 3 the difference becomes small compared with either or .
Hence a small error in produces a much relative error in this fact ill view it appeal .
S th gives a good account of the physical happenings in the wall of the bladder during the large elongations up to The form ( 7 ) can be applied to the experimenfs on a deflated rubber balloon , but not to those on an inflated .

