484 Dr. A. B. Garrod .
On Place of [ June 10 , The state of the muscle after section of its nerves is that of " tonus .
" Atropine by acting directly on the unstriped muscular tissue , and paralysing it , can produce a greater dilatation than mere section of the third nerve , and so also on section of the third nerve eserine directly stimulating the muscular fibre gives rise to extreme contraction .
The intra-ocular muscles therefore have a similar anatomical , histological , and physiological action , and they also are associated together during the act of accommodation .
The pupil contracts on accommodating , and dilates on relaxation of the ciliary muscle ; the former action is by means of the third as motor nerve of the pupillary and ciliary muscles , and the latter is through the long ciliary nerves from the nasal branch of the fifth .
The ordinary light reflex of the pupil takes place by the third , as the motor nerve , and the cervical sympathetic as the inhibitory nerve giving rise to dilatation of the pupil .
The two chief actions of the pupillary muscle are thus divided off from one another in mammals .
In birds possessing voluntary control over their irides this is not so , and the cervical sympathetic has no power over the pupil , the nerve producing dilatation of the pupil being the trigeminus .
V. " On the Place of Origin of Uric Acid in the Animal Body .
" By Alfred Baring Garrod , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 8 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The endeavour of the author in this communication has been to show the place of origin of uric acid in the animal body , and to ascertain which of the two hypotheses on the subject is correct , viz. , whether uric acid is first present in the blood and then secreted from the blood by the kidneys , or whether it is formed by the kidneys themselves .
To enable him to satisfactorily prosecute many of his observations , the author has devised a new method for discovering the presence of uric acid in very minute quantities of blood .
The results of his investigations are embodied in the form of the nine following propositions :\#151 ; Prop. I.\#151 ; -Uric acid is secreted by the kidneys as ammonium urate , and in the case of birds and reptiles , whose urine is semi-solid , it is found in a definite physical form , more in the vitreous condition than in the truly crystalline shape .
Prop. II.\#151 ; Uric acid , when present in the blood , is found under the 1886.J Origin of Uric Acid in the Animal Body .
485 form of sodium urate , and , when deposited from the blood during life in any tissue , it is also as sodium urate in its characteristic crystalline form .
Prop. III.\#151 ; The daily quantity of uric acid in relation to their body-weights secreted by different animals varies extremely .
In some , as the carnivorous mammalia , the ratio may be less than 1 to 1,000,000 , whereas , in others , as birds , it may be as 1 to 85 .
In man it may be regarded as about 1 to 120,000 .
Prop. IV.\#151 ; The quantity of uric acid contained in the blood of different animals has little relation to that secreted by the kidneys .
In birds , secreting daily so large a quantity , the blood is often found to be as free from uric acid as it is in animals whose daily elimination of uric acid is excessively small .
Prop. V.\#151 ; When uric acid is absorbed from the alimentary canal the blood becomes strongly impregnated , and , in fact , often almost saturated with it , so that its presence is readily discovered by any ordinary test .
Prop. VI.\#151 ; One cause of the appearance of an unusual quantity of uric acid in the blood of birds in health is the presence of uric acid in the water they drink , and occasionally in their solid food .
Prop. VII.\#151 ; When uric acid is taken into the stomach of man , or other animals , the secretion of this principle from the kidneys is not increased , although at the time the blood may be rich in it .
Prop. VIII.\#151 ; Uric acid is found in varying quantities in the blood obtained from different veins in the same animal .
It is found in larger quantity in that from the efferent renal veins of birds than in that from the portal afferent , or from the jugular veins ; and the same test which freely exhibits uric acid in the blood from the former , often fails to show it at all in that from the latter two .
Prop. IX.\#151 ; The quantity of uric acid secreted daily by the kidneys of a bird is in close relation to the quantity of nitrogen-ised food taken during the time .
Having brought forward proofs to confirm these propositions severally , the author draws the following conclusion , viz. , that every argument is in favour of the hypothesis that uric acid is formed by the kidney-cells , in the form of ammonium urate , and that the traces of sodium urate ordinarily found in the blood are the result of a necessary absorption , slight in amount , of the ammonium urate from the kidneys into the blood , and its subsequent conversion by that fluid into sodium urate .

