]\gt ; R. .
H. GRIIiFITHS ON THE LATENT I think the preceding sum the remarks of on the detelminations at low tempelature now add some remarks of my own .
REGNAULT compelled to the duration of these experiments as muoh as possible , vise his correction for ths loss 01 gain by ladiation .
etc. ( which was at best but a somewhat uncel { one ) became large as compared with other mngnltudes to be .
The length of experiment was about five , thongl ] in one or two extreme cases it extended to 11 minutes ; in this time he )bout 5 grams of and thus he was compelled to rednce the in the lenser very siderably below the pressure of satul.ats the pstature of the calorimetel .
He was , therePore , unable to diminish the sources of error ( subsequently dwelt upon by WINKELNANN ) in the manner he might hove done had he not been thus limited in time .
, referring to the difference between pressure in the condenser and in the calorimeter , rites as follows : " " La iffeence entre les deux tensions doit meme etre assez grande ; pour que l'experience se fasse dans des conditions favorables d'exactitude ; il faut que distillation soit assez rapide , atin que la correction ne soit jamais qu'une fraction tres petite de Again , another atter of importance is the .
On p. 692 ( ibid. ) says : " " Les tres mercure des calorimetres ont etes gradues avec le plus and soin , un degre centiglade occupe la tige du thermometre du calorimetre C. ; par suite 1o vaut ; , , 1 , , Il est fitcile d'appr6cier avec titude le dixieme des divisions , -dire de degre dans les lunettes lorizontales avec lesquelles on observe les tres.\ldquo ; The only other reference is on p. 707 , where he remarks } ) he reduced the readiags from the melcuy to the air by means of the table given ou p. 239 of his ] ) apex " " De la mesure des I have searched the paper throughout some mdication as to the thermometers actually used , in the hope that I might able to identif } them with ] some one of those of whose comparison with the air he gave an account in another ; but the above are the only references to the thetmometry I have been able to find .
Had a direct comparison betwee ] ) these thsrmometels and the air thermometer been made , it is most probable that TtIX ) would have mentioned it ; we may , therefore , assume that , lIad ) meas od the of et aporahng water , me$tus of vapou lessurc in the condensor , the ) objections would their force .
'Memoir .
de Acad , ' vol. 21 , 1847 , p. 716 .
lJemoir .
Institut , .
HEAT OF EVAPORATION OF WATER .
If the calorimeter at the commencement and end of an experiment was at exactly the sams temperature as the surrounding walIs , then if their tempel.ature was unchanged , the term old vanish ; but although this term throughout these expel.iments was of small dimensions , it could not be entirely ignored .
Let and be the temperature of the surrounding walls at the beginning and end of an experiment ; suppose the calorimeter temperature to exceed the surrounding temperature by the commencement and at the end of an experiment .
Then fall in temperature of calorimeter Hence the } ) given out by the calorimeter in consequence of fall in temperature is where is the capacity for of calorimeter and contents at ths temperature If we neglect any small loss by radiation , \amp ; c. , to the differeness and between the temperature of the ] orimeter and the walls , we may that the whole of the heat tbus evolved by the calorimeter wcts expended in the evaporation of water , hence . . . . .
( 8 .
) Hence ( 4 .
) In order to convey an idea of the relative importance of the terms in equation ( 4 ) I will here give the approximate mean value of each term resulting from ) ments described in succeeding pages .
TABLE IL This apparently clumsy method of representing quantity oi hoat evolvsd or tilken up by the calorimeter dopted b ) , as the method of experiment involved rate dminatiotJb of , d ' and the actual temperlature of the calorimoter hmo could bc obtained ) is manner .
IIDCCCXCV .
\mdash ; A. 2 Although , of course , I , when commencing these experiments , no exact knowas to the compalative values of terms , some preliminary observations bled me to form a rough estimation of their magnitudes and of the of attention which should be devoted to thei1 accurate meastlrement .
Section .\mdash ; TITE METHOD or THE SPACE OUNDING I CALORJMETDIt AT A CONSTANT I have , in J. , given an CCOLlut of the ) ratus employed for this purposs , full details plates will be found on pp. 374-378 ( ibid. ) .
In order , } ) owever , to give a general idea of the arrangements , and to save the reader the trouble of reference , I will heal quote the brief description given in the trnct of that paper:\mdash ; ' ' The was suspended an air-tight steel chamber .
The walls and floor of this chambsr were double , and the space between them lilled with mercu .
The whole structure was placed in a tank containing about 20 of water , and } ) orted in such a matmer that there were about inches of water both bove neath it .
The merc/ lry connected by tube with a gas 1 ) lator of a novel form , which ] contl olled tlJe s pply of gas to a number of jets .
Above these jets was placed a flat silver tube , through which tapvater was continllalJy flowing into the tank , adl parts of which we1e maintained an equal by the rapid otation of a large screw .
Thus , the calorimeter may regarded as suspended a charnbor in the bulb of a large thermometer \mdash ; the merc( in that bulb weighing 70 .
A change of C. in the teml)sraturs of the tter caused the in the tnbes of the app.aratus to rise millims. arrangements were made by hich it was possible to set the appa1atus so that the walls Stll .
the imeter could be maintained for length time required temperaturc , that tap-water ( in summsr bout 1 C. , wlnter up to .
or I thi the above , together with the section on Plate 4 , A ill convey tt fficicnt idett of ths apparatus .
ince 1892 , I have tain implovements , which I briefly describe .
J. expetiments ) of temperature about C. to C. In uent e inlonts lvhen I have 1 to at Iugher ratures , it WclS found that the oscillations in teml ) became erious , in some ( to C. due to the teml ) erature lag of the large nlRSS of that the loweled by action of the reguIator the resulting , of cold ered tl tank tempelat before the melcury had contracted to he the .
In A. I hnve described follows the alra]lgements made to meet this difficulty nged , working above tatures a C , asmall motor acts as aheart , and , the tap-water being off , the vater itself round the silver tube placed above the OF EVAPORATION OF WATER .
but a small effect on the temperature ) ; ( b ) its elecbtic conducbivity , whioh would have necessitated the covering of the platinu)-silver coil with some insulator .
I therefore gave my first attention to { he selection of some more suitable liquid .
The ideal one ought to have small " " volume heat *and should be a perfect insulatot and therefore I at first selected aniline .
I determined specific heat a range of from to C. , and found that in some respects it suited my purposes admirably .
A foll description of this work will be found in paper A. arly in September I had , in of an accident , to ke the calorimeter to pieces and withdraw the anilme .
I was then alarmed by darkening in colour which it had undergone .
In the discussion on the paper nbove referred to , Dr. ARMSTRONG expressed his opinion thab the change in constitution by this change in colour was not of a to render it likely that it would produce any appreciable effect on the specific heat , as it was probably due to ) formation of a body whose ties wexe ) to those of aniline .
I may that ofessor RAMSAY independently expressed an opinion to the same effect .
My observations show that no Mteration in the specific heat of aniline had been dicated by the change in colour referred to , I am of opinion that it be regorded as a liquid admirably adapted for calorimetric purposes , as it is but arely that it wotlld ired for experiments over a } ) eriod of months or If I am able to carry out my invest , gations the latent heat of evaporation of water and other lids according to the platt I have designed , it is probable that the enquiry will occupy my leisure time for some years , and as the exact determination of the capacity heat of the calorimeter and contents throughout a range of temperature is a most laborious one , I was anxious to employ some liquid about the constancy of whose composition I should have no anxiety .
At this time , Mr. THOMAS suggested to me that I should try a kind oleum oil supposed to consist of hydrocarbons only .
This is a larly limpid oil , withont colour , smell , or taste .
I tested its insulating vely seve ) over a range of tempelature 1 to C. , and lthough I placed ] arge electrodes a quarter of an inch of each other , ) used potential diffelence of 10 volts , I could cause no permanent deflection in a high resistance galvanometer throughout this ature .
Its specific gravity at , and , as I shall show hereafter , its " " volume heat\ldquo ; is smaller than that of alliline .
After sevelal experiments dilfexent kiods , I came to the conclusion this oil was a most suitttble liquid for my purpose .
The replacement of by oil necessitated a -determioation of the capacity * I propose to use ) abos term to denote the capacity for heat of ) volumo of a subs as compared the ])acity for heat of an equal of ater .
The phrase bas already been llscc/ ) a similar sense by DFDLtY , ' Chem. Soc. Journ , p. 854 .
This oil appears to me to be well adapted to many physical purposes .
See note at end of this Section .
for heat of the calorimeter and its contents throughout my range of temperature , and as regards the purposes of the present enquiry , a portion of my on niline was rendered useless .
The method employed during the aniline investigation a repetition of the experiments with dilferent masses of aniline and with ditferent eloctromove forces .
As , however , those experiments had given me a very exact determi ) ation of the capacity for heat of the imeter itself throughout the range of ture 1 to C. , the whole of the labour had not to be gone throogh , for ( the equivalent\ldquo ; of the calorimeter being known ) it was not necsssary , when oil , to repeat the expeliments with ferent masses .
In Appendix IL , I give palticulars of the method employed for determining the capacity for heat of the calorimeter and contents at dilferent temperatures .
The following table gives the esults , and as the vahle of the specific heat of oil at different temperatures may be of use to other experimenters , I have also given ( in telms of a unit at C. ) the capacity for heat of calorimeter and contents at ( scale ) , and the ific heat of the oil .
The mass of oil ( corrected to ) ) grams , The tables in Appendix II .
show } ) the lumbers in Column IIL are chrect results , " " smoothed\ldquo ; in any way .
It is noticeable that the value of is a linear tion of throughout the above range , lthough the ature of the line giving the capacity for heat of the calorimeter is very rrked .
these results are to better than 1 in 1000 ( see Appendix II but , as pection of Table II .
wilJ show , an order of accuracy of 1 in 101ould have been sufficient .
As , however , the accurate determination of and involved ( by the method adopted ) little more labour than an approximate determination , I thought it advisable to ascertain the specific heat of the oil with accul.acy .
Since and varied from 307 to 323 , it is obvious that if was to be kept small , the changes in aIJd d be very limited , such changes must be measured with extreme care .
Having already described the manner in which the temperature of the surrounding walls was kept constant , the way in which any small variations in were ascertained , I now indic the method of measuriug the values of , the initial and OF EVAPORATION OF WATJJtl .
of the mula ou p. 286 ) gives the oge in temperatule ( the scale ) collesponding to change of box ohm in thermometer TABLE Now the of the mean of the npet a was box ohm , hence the following Table which ( col .
2 ) gives the dilference in indicated by a difference of 1 mean bridge-vire millim. from the -wire nullpoint at the given tempelature , and ( col .
3 ) the ence in temperature indicated by a of 10 when the contact-maker is the ]-point .
an experiment , the contact-maker was set , with the aid of a glass , to the exact null-point COlTesponding to the temperature at which the meant to be condnted , and it was left untouched throughout the expe ) iment .
The initial and the final rarely exceeded , and could be read with a limit of of 2 , when only one observation was taken , and as , at these times , three observations were meaned ( they were , by the way , usually identical ) , the * As AB the crsod in imeter it is with c in its chiefly to do .
An of 05 millim. in settiug of the vould COlUespond to dilIercuce of at , and , radiation , \amp ; c. , due to such a diffcnence would be ible .
TlIo , \amp ; c. , of this calorimetel ) full was aboub pet per .
or the loss , to a di\amp ; rence would be abon grums per ' the capacity as , thus ) difference of lghout au experiment would have caused loss or of 1 thermal gram .
Of course , the differences in tempel ture r ely to and again , the were alternately , so the ladiahon , \amp ; c. , or gain evidently negligible .
The , \amp ; c. , coefficienb can be the uents on the of lise the no of ( Append IIDCCCXCV .
2 1 probable certainly less than 2 , and , I believe , less than 1 ) .
Assume the erlor to be as great as 2 , it follows that the } ences of temperature could be determiued to 0004o , aod I am confident that differences of could IJS detected .
can be little doubt therefore that the ntity } could be determined to a ffi higher , ree of accuracy than subsequent experience proved to be necessary NOTE .
Dece ) , 1894 .
At .
HEYCOCK'S suggestion , I have to-day tested as follows ) oil supplied to me by .
THOIIAS , and referred to in the p1eceding .
We a lump of sodium in a filled with the , and gradually 1aised the ture to above No action whatever was visible , and ) surface of the melted sodium remained as bright as that of pure mercury .
We may , that tbc are jtlstified in their statement that it consists of carbolls only , and the probability that different samples would possess approximately the same compositio ) is sufficient to make the ) nation of its specific heat of some value .
Section YII.\mdash ; THE HrAI DUE To THE IRRING ( .
I have already pointed out the necessity for lapid stirring .
Throughout these experiments the tirrer revolved at a 1ate of about 310 to 320 revoIutions per minute , which is a slow rate as compared with that during my enquiry into the value of J. The conditions , however , fferrt In my work I had at times to make vations with the calorimeter ) partially filled with liquid , and I found that unless the water was thrown every part of the calorime , its capacity for heat valied with the depth of the hquid .
Throughout my work the meter was full , the liquid almost touching the hd , and , in consequence , I considered owsr rate sufficient to au even distribution of temperature .
In my aniline experiments previously referred to , I eliminated the etfect of the stirring-heat by finding the at which the stirring supI ) exactly balanced the Ioss by radiation , \amp ; c. , and thus the rate of at enabled me to the offect of the electrical supply .
As throughout my observatious on latent hsat I had to mamtain the of the calorimeter at an equality with the sulroundiog tvalls , mode of eliminatio ] ] was not })licable .
Two methods of finding the of the mechanical supply suggested themselves .
I. That of finding tloe mass of water which it was necessat:y to evaporate per hour order to the cimeter at a constant temperature , when the supply of heat was due to the ring only .
IL That of determining the rate of 1ise across the null-point when the heat supply woe thnt to only ; hen the heat was due to the and a glven potenti diiference .
HEAT OF EVAPORATION WATER .
I. I made a large number of determinations by bhis metl ) pecially dming the " " preliminary experiments of which an account is given Section IX .
, where the evaporation was promoted by passing a current of dry gas through water .
AF I shall give details of the operations when describing the " " experiments I will not enter into here , but I may now mention that the results by this method wele by no means satisfactory , either as 1egards the determination of the stirring heat supply ( Q. ) of values of L. Ths disctepancies in the value of are , however , not alone sufficient to explairl the comparative of this method of finding , for when both the te and the nperature wsre the same , the variations in never ined to 1 in 20 , and as was but edth of the total supply , ) approximation nearly .
I omit arly detailed account of these experiments , as I made no nse of them in my ] ) calculations , and it would needlessly fill much space .
I will , hove give ths conclusions they led to , as the lesults obtairled by the method ally lopted .
Let of water evaporated per 1 second by the supply , and rate of stirring umber revoIutions second ) .
When diminished , the value of increased , and this rate of was much greater after the aniline was rt , placed by oil ; the change being evidently due to the increase of viscosity as the temperature diminished .
When the took })lace in aniline ried very no ) as , but when oil was tb liquid varied nearly as In a former pape I have proved that when the liquid was water the ring heat valied almost exactly as , and I gave particulars of 108 experiments bealmg out that conclusion .
Again , in Paper A. , I have shown that when using Jiliue with a different form of stirrer approximately .
Now the same stirrer as that used in alliline we get with oil ; at the power of old be higLer , at lower temperatures rather smaller .
These differences , although are none the less real .
In the case of water the conditions were so dilferent about 30 instead of about 5 ) that no comparisons could be drawn , but , in the case of the aniline and the oil , the conditions were almost My edulity with respect to the relabons between , and led to considerable delay , as I lepeated these experiments unnecessarily , and it was not ltil a ent method of observation led to the conclusion I felt any confidonce- in the results . .
I now pass to the method indicated in Ir .
, in which no weighings were involved , and ) also able to dispel ) with the air lrolIgh t apparatus .
*Paper J. 292 } .
H. GRIFFTTHS ON THE LATIiNT Let be the time of rising through a small of ft om below to the surronnding temperature lf the leat supply is in one cass due to both electric current the only , , . . . . . .
( ) , is the tempelatu of the calorimeter , and the suffix denotes the nature of the supply .
And ( using the notation on pp. 272 and 273 ) , and therefore . . . . .
, Eq. ( II .
) be tr on any scale , and thus it is unnecessary to cotlvert the readings into degrees C. , and since , . . . . . . .
( III .
) , if , nnd be known , we find \amp ; . . . . . .
Thus , can be found , although ) capaoity for heat of the calorimeter contents and also the scale of temperature are unknown .
If convert the bridge-wire degrees into C. degrees ( N. thel mometer ) then , since we get ( .
) , tnus can )uutl .
In Appendix I. I give })articulars of the experiments by which the values of for ferent values of were found .
I regret that the observations are so few in number Unfortunately I did not adopt this mode of experiment until the eleventh hour , and as ) experiments were vely , 1 should consequently have been to complete direct dsterminations of to establ its value at the two points to which want of time compelled me to limit the investigation .
On comparing the with those obtained in oil by the previous method , I found that the agreement tvas sufficiently close to warrant a postponement of further HEAT OF ]VAPORATION OF WATER .
investigation on this point , and I am contident that the values of given in the following correct to better than 1 in 50 , temperatures and , although I leffi csrtain about the at C. The latter , , ate required for the purposes of this paper , except in so far they fact the specific of the oil in Table ams per sec. at rate revoluti , ns Let be the thermal grams per second due to a rate Then , there Hence Tempernture , then I do not , of course , suppose that is the exact elation .
I have al1eady indicated that was too small at high , and too great at low temperatures .
It must be remembered , that the variations in were smalI , and thus the relation is sufficiently cIose for the corl.ection of such riations as occnrred during these experiments .
If we assuule that the work done ( for a given value of r ) is proportional to the cosity , the values of denote how great a change in viscosity is pro uced by raising the temperature from to I repeat , however , that the values at and must be regarded with suspicion .
I ve no ) experiment by the .
method ) at , nnd ) ono ) Appendix Ir VIIT .
0F THE HEAT } BY THE CURItENT .
A sketch of electl i)xtions is boive ] ] in Plate 6 , fig. 3 , and a full tvill be in P , tper ) erefore I will here give only a iption .
of Leads and vere connected with ) storage cell leads 1 and 3 with ) the cells .
A special of rheochord was used consisting of two long barometer tubes ( 7 feet in ) ) , which were so arlanged that they could be raised 01 lowered by the rotation of handles ; thus the length of the vacuous space could be alteled at will .
PIatinum wires passed down these tubes into the mercury .
The wires were placed in parallel arc and thus one acted as a shunt to the other .
The change in 1esistance depended , therefore , not only on the movement but on the atio of the two resistances , ) the instrument could bs set so that a large movement caused but little change , or rice The contact between platinum and was found to be vely tisfactory .
The resistance of the storage could thus be altered at will .
The Clalk cell circuit contained a high rssistance galvanometer , with a esistance of about 9000 ohms , and joined ths circuit at of ( at NI and , small sketch , Plate 6 , fig. 3 ) .
By the the of the exteual resistance of the storage cuit to the coil resistance could be altered at will , so that the D.P. at the ends of the coil became equal to that of Clark cells , and the ance was maintained by watching the indications of , and , when necessary , adjusting the .
The spot of from passed down a tunnel 4 feet in length on to a sheet of ground-glass placed opposite the rheochotd .
In Paper J. , p. 384 , I have given ) experunental numbers on which the statement was based:\mdash ; " " It thus ppears that the valiations in ( the potential difference at the ends of the coil ) were certainly within of the mean value during the experiments , and changes , consequent on changes in the coil resistance , or the E. .
of the storages , could be disregarded The effect of any elror in determining be se1ious ( the quantity being nsed in the reductions ) , and hence its accurate surement was of great importance .
I am s , ttisfied , ] ) owever , that ( assuming the value of for the Cavendish standard Clark cell to , ave been accurately determined ) no error in the measurement of is due to as to the potential diffelence .
The thirby-six Clark cells used have been fnlly described , in J. , pp. 385-388 , as well as in the Paper by Messrs. and .
They have been compared with each other at legular intervals up to present time , and their relative changes are small .
At three of these cells wele always placed in parallel .
Sometimes when Phil. Trans , 1892 , pp. 622-624 HEAT OF }VAPORATION O WATER .
working with a D.P. of four cells at least sixteen were leally use .
these experiments they ined at a ature close to C. , by rt legulator wluch the tank when below C. and rned tap-water the when ttbove C. As full are given in the pages of Paper J. , I think the above summa ) will be sufficient .
There is one alteration in the electrical cotlections to I to draw attention .
In former experiments some time always elapsed , fter the curl.ent WclS tablished , before auy observatioos were taksn .
It , however , appeated in this wotk I should occasiorlally have to cut off and put on the cut1ent during an expeliment .
some time after the of the cuttent , constant -ddjustment of the rheochord was required , as the temperature of the 11 , \amp ; c. , forming the external cilcuit was gradually retised , and the external resistance in consequence creased .
Dming this period of adjustment the balance could uot be as tely maintained as when the temperature of the extarnal wiles had become steady .
In older to avoid this adjustment , a coil of the same and resistance as that in the imeter ucted and placed in a tube containing the same oil as that in the calorimeter , this tube as fixed in the tank at Plate .
At a key wa , so arranged that one moveluent ought the stolaget , mto colmection with the calorimeter coil by means of leads 2 and 4 , while anothet movecaused the CUtTent to leave the calorimeter circuit artd ough F. second key ( not shown in fig. 3 ) , the Clal k cell to be also connected to The curlent was sent through for 10 minutes or so and the b.alance adjusted , ument commenced .
On moving the key at , the was switched 011 to the imeter , the Clark cell circuit was then also shifted and the balaI ) more made pelfect .
Thus the current thxough the e , was kept constant hethel it was passing through the calorimeter or not , the heocho1 lequired far less mallipulation .
Again , the key was so allanged that whenever the current was shil.tcd , connection in a chronograph circuit estnblished , and tbus the times of " " and breaking\ldquo ; calorimetric current were automatically ) egisteled .
, the marked time was in each case a fraction of second before the " " bleak the of the intervals was truly recolded .
oj holes in ) paraffin blocks and Plate contained n/ elcm onnection could made cross pieces copper betweer ) of and any of the holes in These copper rods , when in position , rested on the wires passed through the bottom of the holes .
Denoting the sistance of the coil by , that of the leads from , to the lid of the caIorin ) by it is evident that by ) ovelnent of the lods , the following lesistances could be , vi :\mdash ; lf , I , and the lsslllting numbers , ws get JJld there is no necessity that , and should be equal .
value of vays o in the above mner , and then expressed in terms of the box ohm at A full account is given Paper J. , pp. ) , of the comparisons of individual coils of my resistance box with the B.A. Standards , and the values of 1educed to true ohms the nlanner thele indicated , with the oorrections giveu in a later communication In Appendix III .
I give an example observation together with the reductions .
It was next to find the increase in due to the of temperature caused by the culrent .
was done in substantially the sams manner as that described in Paper J. , pp. 404-407 ; SR was in this case found to be very small\mdash ; as sholvn by the following table .
The lssltiug ( as in other cases ) practically a ) there rectiou was necessary for the heat developed iu leads 2 and 4 in thu poltiou ) passed from the steel to the calorimeter lid .
Their total lesi t WelS 0068 .
We assume ffiat half the heat hete genel.ated passed into the calorimetel , helefore C thei ) lesistance as 0034 ohm Now the points kept at a constant D.P. tvere between these wires and the coil , and since , et the etfective resistance The table gives the valut , S ( after the application of all corrections ) of at the tempelatu ] es at the experiments wele performed , the )otential d ; being denoted by the suflix .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc .
S5 .
HEAT OF EVAPORATION WATER .
per 1o C. This coil has shown no signs of any changs throughout its history .
As , I have now indicated how the value of could be accurately ascertained .
Had full details of the method not been given in previously published papers , it would have been necessary for me to give further particulars as to the various There can , I think , be little doubt that the value of could be determined with great certainty .
I have already pointed out that even if my value of be in error , it is the correct value to use for these experiments , and that even if ( the D.P. of a Clark cell ) and the units in which is measured , the of a ' trus ohm are in error , the results are , unaffected , provided that no have taken place iu my Clark cells , or the coils of the resistance box since they were used for the determination of the value of J. [ Note , , 1895.\mdash ; During the spring of this year my Clark cells were carefully -compared with the Cavendish standard , RL Comparisons were made at regular intervals , and Mr , SxIliNIiR was so kind as to take some independent observations .
The differences are expresse in hundred-thousandths of the E.M.F. of the standard .
The highest of the thirty cells exceeds I by 40 such units .
The lowest is less than I by 36 .
The mean value of the whole set is less than I by 3 such units by volt ) .
Thus , although the individual cells show larger discrepancies , the mean value is almost exactly that of the Cavendish standard .
The prsvious history of that that it had remained unchanged ring the interval of eight years which had elapsed between the absolute determination of its E.M.F. by Lord RAYLEIGH in 1888 , and that by ]4essrs .
GLAZEBBOOK and SKINNBIt in 1891 .
There is no reason to suppose that it has altered since the latter date , and this conclu } .
is borne out by comparison with other standards at the Cavendisl ) Laboratory .
I , that I am justified in assuming that the mean E.M.F. of my cells remains practically unaltered .
ells 3 to 42 have been compared at Manchester by Professor SCHUSTER his standard .
These six the highest mean E.M.F. of any of 11ly sets .
Their meall value exceeds I by , and they exceed Professor ScIIUSTIlR'S standard by 298 MR. Il .
H. ON THE LATENT 70 units .
It would thus appear that I exceeds Profossor SCHUSTER'S standard by 48 units , , by about 0007 volt .
It must , however .
be remembered that between these parisons the cells had been subjected to transits by railway .
] asurement of Time , The chronograph was controlled by the electric dock described in Paper J. ( p. 414 ) .
The clock has remained untouched from July 16th to the present ember 18th , and that time it has gained 12 nutes , i.e. , a gaining rate of about 1 iu 15,000 .
The gain has been regula ) .
ttnoughout the interval , the clock being singularly indifferent to small changes of temperature .
I therefore consider that the measurements of time require no correction .
Section IX.\mdash ; TIIE BESULTS OF EXPERIMENTS 1N wmcH EVAPORATION WAS PROMOTED BY THE PASSAGE A GAS .
I have hitherto referred to the I describe in this section as " " pre\ldquo ; for want of a better name ; but I had originally hoped that the method would have given satiofactory resuIts .
Although these experiments have had but little influence on my conclusions , I will brielly describe them , as I am yet at a loss to for their comparative irregularity .
Dry air , other gas , was forced in a contiI ) uous stream through the water to be evaporated , the cooling caused was balanced as before described , and the weight of water evaporated determined by the increase in weight of drying bulbs .
I wished to adopt this )thod , because by the flow of air the rate of loss of heat could be ( by proper arrangements ) regulated with icety , and the thermal balance maintained with great accuracy .
When water is made to boil by diminished pressure , the regulation of the oooling presents many manipulative difficulties that I was anxious to avoid .
The experlments were conducted as follows .
About 20 .
centims. ot water were placed in the flask Plate 6 , fig. 1 water force-pump set going , and the air first passed throngh the bottles and " " tower\ldquo ; , then through the -tube and drying tower P\mdash ; both containing .
It the1J passed through the 3-way tap into the 30-feet copper coil in the tank water , thus attaining the tem- perature of the tank , and after traversing the immersed tap , bubbled through the water in the silver flask .
The air and vapour now rose up through the 18 feet of silver coil withiIl the calorimeter , passed out through the 4-way tap , which was opened in such a manner as to direct the air current into some bulbs ( not tigure is only , and conveys no iden of dimensions or actnal position .
For examplc , the coil surrounded the steel , and the 4-way tap was on the same side of the apparatus as the tap .
The pipes , \amp ; c. , crossed and -crossed other in such a manner as to render any direct tion impossible .
The drying bulbs and conuections are not indicated in the figure , as they were afterwards replaco , by the condenser ( and mauometer HEAT OF LVAPORATION OF WATER .
in figure ) containiug the same depth of as the bull ) to be weighed .
Thus when was afterwards so tmned as to change the direction of the to the eighing bulbs , no alteration took place in the rate of flo , which wafi adjusted as required in the following manner .
A -piece ( not in sketc was inselted in the tube between the drying tower and the tap tical leg of the piece a wide graduated tube , open at its lower extremity , and imme1sed in a deep , vessel ( a hydtometer jar ) filled with If air vithm bhe pipes was greater than that due to ths column of above the open end 01 this leg , ) excess of gas bubbled up through the and escaped mto the open .
Thus by raisin ot lowering the vessel the pressure and quantity of passmg ough the wh apparatos could be regulated with exactne , ss .
I found it possible to so adjust the flow that when the heat supply was and , the } ] vanonteter sowed no change for nearly an hour A further ffivanbge of this I could close any tap without increasin , the pressute the appalatns , the of ) g.as then passing out through the 1egulator .
The of the gas fl.ask was on the manometer , which had two wide bulbs near base , the merc fillmg the lower bend and three-quarters of the bulbs .
The row tube on the ) side contained water resting on the mercnry , ) thus a very ) scale was obtained .
The inst ) ument was carefully standardised , a movement of 778 centims. in the level corresponded to a change in the pressure of 1 centim. of .
The watel completely cut off by the mercury from all communication with the gas tubes .
Tbc electric connections having been and the heochod usted } ltil the high galvanometer showed that the 1).P .
ab onds of the that of the cells ( I shall speak of this hereafter as tho " " nlce , \ldquo ; of the adjustment of the loss or gain of as the " " thelmal the gas flow was then diminished until the platinum mometer galvanometer ed at slightly exceeded calorimeter temperature , tempet of .
The current was then switched on to the alternative coil .
3 , decleased at the moment when the cm 1ent was switched back the key itself recording the time on the chgaph tape .
) the salI ) ) the tap was tnrned so as to causs the escaping to pass , the bulbs .
This time had not to be recorded , nor was there necessity that it bc nearly or at all coincident with time of establishing the electnc current .
If , however , did not exactly equal at the } meant of swing of the galvanometet .
was recorded and the tap only closed at the eud of an experimsnt ) the swing was with the mitial one .
When the thermal balance was maintnioed , 2 , 01 , solllc 3 houts by adjusting the flow of gas .
At the cIose of an allowed to rise slightly above , the curlent itself recol ( time ) and as descended the Iap was turxled back to its old hell .
R. FITHS ON THE ] or when the swing was the same as the initial one .
The taps and , were then tulued so thac the dry air instead of passing through the tank , \amp ; c. , went straight through to the weighing bulbs , and thus any moisture left in the connecting tubes was swept into bulbs .
The swing of the galvanometer was rarely as much as 50 ( indicating a difference of about between and ) throughout one of these experiments , and when such oscillations occurred care was taken to aIter the adjustments so ) a swing to the light as invariably ) by a similar swing to bhe left .
The whole apparatus could easily be managed by two observers and , on occasions , it was unnecessary to make an alteration of any kind for half-an-hour at a ) As before stated , the sbirrer automatically recorded on the chronograph tape the time of each 1000 levolutions .
The bulbs were of peculiar construction and specially designed for this .
The gas passed through four washings of and then through tube of , on the further sids of which was attached a tube .
The latter was not cludsd in the weighings , but only used to prevent any access of the laboratory air to the when the gas current was not passing .
The weighing bulbs connected with the exit tube by a mercury had simply to be lowered place , no fitting of rubber tnbes being necessary .
To avoid condensation , the mercury trough and also the whole of the exit tube rior to the tank were maintained at a temperature above by means of small gas jets .
At the close of an expetiment ) weighing-bulbs were removed ( with their similar tares ) to the balance case .
A careful weighing was made about an hour after the experiment , and again next morning ; an apparent increase of about gram generally presenting itseIl As ( especially in the stirring experiments ) small dilferences in weight had to be measured , I took every precaution I could devise , and I also followed the suggestions of friends whose experience in this matter was greater than my own .
The balance a short-beam one by yBItBEcx and POCKHOLDT , and was constructed so as to a swing of 25 divisions per 1 milligram when loaded up to 500 grams .
The actual weights to be msasured were about 120 .
I made special efforts to keep the temperature of the balance case steady , and noted ths effects of changes in temperaon of the alms , etc. The weights used were by tessrs .
LINO , and -standardised by them last year .
inclease in weight the ical experiments varied from to the increase during the stirring exp.riments from06 to 08 gram .
I think it certain that the weighing error was never so ) as 002 gram , and it was probably mnch less ; thus I do not believe that any discrepancies in the values of Lgl.eater than 1 in 1000 can be due to errors of this description .
As described ( p. 291 ) the mass of ater evaporated by the upply was Neithel bulbs ough are sbown in flg .
1 , Plate 6 .
302 MR. .
H. GRIFFITHS ON THE LATliNT I have included in the abovs table all the experiments with the exception of two , which were on the same day ( Ssptember ) , and whose extreme divergence from the others led to the discovery that the of one of the leads had fallen off In consequence , the value of was uncertain .
veen s 3rd and 11th the whole apparatus taken to pieces and fitted with new leads and lators .
From this time nwatds the calorimeter was filled with oil in place of amline ( see Paper A. , p. 77 ) .
I think it is evident that the discrepancies are greater than can be accounted for by errors in weighing , as they sometimes amount to nearly 1 per cent. I at first suspected that some moisture was escaping uncaught by the bulbs , or that the entering air was not dry .
I , for two reasons , that this was not the case .
( 1 ) The bulb , through which the gas { inally passed , in no case increased in weight by as mtlch as gram , alffi usually only by about gram , which showed how completely the moisture had been removed by the .
( 2 ) Before entering the apparatus the gas passed also through and , therefore any quantity of moisture which escaped these drying agents would be likely to escape the similar agents at the exit end , and thus would not alfect their weight .
I had good evidence that was the cass , for I thoroughly the flask and tubes at a temperature of , and then ) assed the gas through the apparatus into the weighmg bulbs for an hour and a half ; but the of weight in that time was not as much as 0005 gram Again , if the gas was more completely dried at one en than at the other , the effect ould have been to make all the values of too low or too high .
Of course , I was entirely in the at the time of these imerJts as to the real value of , but I now find that the mean of each group gives a close approximation to the true value , hence there was no permanent raising or lowering cause at work , It will be noticed that the rate of flow of air was greatly changed during these experiments ; when three cells were used the rate of evaporation had to be nine times as great as when the D.P. was that of one cell .
Inspection of the table will that the variatioJ ) in the values of do 1lot appear to bs functions of the rate .
For some I fancied " " riming \ldquo ; might be taking place , but , if so , the experiment ; with a rapid flow vould probably all have given lower values than those with 1 slow flow , the carryin of rticles of unevaporated water being much more probable when the velocity of the gas current was increased nine times .
Again , it has been suggested that , as the pressure of the gas diminished during its passage through the apparatus , some heat would in consequence disappear .
1 would point out that the only constricted portions of the passage er the air ones Pntered the tank ) the calorirneter , and , if all the wolk done by the gas was performed within the calorimeter , the coolin to expansion , would be just balanced by the warming of the the constricted points .
Also , a persistent lowering of the values of would be caused , and ( as above pointed out ) I now find that is not the case .
To test this mattel at the time , however , I obstilved the OF VAPORATION OF WATER .
rate of rise due to the " " stirring supply\ldquo ; \mdash ; firstly , when no air was passing ; secondly , when the air was passing through the dry flask and tubes and I could detect no difference .
So as the thermal balance is mttintained with the same potential difference , the rate of evaporation must be the same , whatever method is adopted .
I cannot see that the external work to be done is likcly to alter because the space above the water is rated by passing a gas instead of removing the saturated vapour by an exhaust , and this view is borne out by the cIose nent between the of groups and my later experiments .
There is one curious fact which may possibly throw some light on the matter .
I performed two experiments ( August 22 and September 13 ) , passing nitrogen instead of air .
Of course I at that time no means ofjudging of the comparative value of the different experiments , and therefore was ignorant of the close approximation of the nitrogen lues and my final ones .
Had I then been aware of the coincidence , I have continued the nitirogen experiments in order to in if the agreement was fortuitous .
The cIose agreement is hown in the following table:\mdash ; TABLE X. When time allows , I propose to repeat ) nitrogen experiments , in the hope that soms light may thereby be thrown on the matter ; in the meantime , I am unable to suggest any sufficient explanation of this phenomenon .
Section X.\mdash ; THE METHOD 1'1NALLY .
" " EXHAUST " " A study of the resuIts obtained from the experiments described in the last section led me to conclusion that it necessary to seek some other method of the problem .
I have not described many of the precautions I gradunlly adopted during those experimer1ts , but since none of them had produced any appreimprovement it was evident that the real canse of the irregularities had not been ascertained .
Even the entire change involved by the replacement of aniline by oil , the removal and refittin of the calorimeter , \amp ; c. , appeared to had no effect of any kind .
I deteImined , therefore , to adopt an alternative method of evaporation , viz , by reducing the total pressure below the of the saturated vaponr .
It possessed the following great advantages : ( 1 ) there would be no necessity for the passage of gas through the apparatus , ( 2 ) the weighing-bulbs , \amp ; c. , for catching the aqueous vapour couId be dispensed with .
I was , however , reluctant to adopt this method , for I anticipated that sevel.al practical difficulties would present themselves ; example , it would be necessary to insert a known weight of water into the flask , and contin the experiments until the whole of that water was evaporated , thus 1 should not be able to finish the expel.iment at any time when , as was ths case the " " pressure\ldquo ; experiments .
It would also be more difficult to maintain the thermal balanco at such perfextion as in the former experimsnts , for it would be less easy to control the rate of evaporation .
Again , when air was passing through the apparatus , the water in the llask was efficiently stirred and its temperature in consequence approximated closely to that of the calorimeter , even when the rate of evaporation was rapid .
A thermomster , during the preliminary experiments , as described in Section V. , with its bulb near the bottom of the flask , and I found that the difference in temperature between the water and the calorimeter liquid did not , in the greatest case , exceed C. If no gas was passing , the water would Ilot be stirred , and it appeared probable that the dilference in temperature might gl.eatly exceed this amount .
In this caae not only wouId the observed temperature exceed the real temperaturs of the water , but also the vapour when through the coil would abstract heat from the calorimeter , and thus ( as pointed out by criticisms of experiments ) the resulting value of would be too great .
It did not appear possible to determine the interior { lask temperature accurately by means of a mercury thermometer , whose bulb was placed in a chamber where the pressure was reduced to something between 10 and 100 millims. , and if I placed a platinum thermometer in the flask , a third electrical cuit and galvanometer lvould have had to be added with a third observer to read the indications\mdash ; additions which circumstances did not render possible .
I did not feel that it would be of any use to adopt method of determining the temperature by the vapour pressure ( see Section IL ) , and I endeavout:ed therefore to find some means of preventing the temperature of the evaporating water from falling below that of the walls of the It was evident that the smaller the quantity of contained water , the more nearly would its temperature approximate to that of the surface upon which it rested .
If it was possible to discharge the water drop by drop on to the silver surface , the difference ture would probably be negligible , and after some trials I found a method of this , A glass tube , exactly fitting into the communicating tube ( Plate 5 , fig. 1 ) was closed at one end , the other end being drawn out so that it would pass through the constriction at the calorimeter lid see , and the narrow tube which thus projected into the , terminated in a very fine opening .
H AT OF ]APOR ATION WATI H. A tube of kind ( which , I shall call a " " opper is sllown in in Pbte fig. 1 .
It was filled with same mantlet as " " lometer.\ldquo ; To ascertmin its action , I placed it ) a wide glass tube wh et end Wctb closed .
A constriction in the wide enabled me to stand the 'dropper\ldquo ; within it , so that the narrow portion pzojected ( without touchiog the botton ) ) in the same manner as it would do when above the flask .
The ) end of snclosing tubo was connected with the exhaus6 pumps , a clamp bemg hxed on the connectious .
I found that when the p fell below that of the queous vaponr , the nter i the dropper tvas discharged into the surrounding cham in a of small , but that the communication with ) closed ) csased .
If the vacuum was maintained , the , st on the wdlls while a fresh supply was ejected .
I concluded when the space was .bsolutely ated there was equilibriu ) , and I found ) the of that , caused by an almost imperceptible decrease in the , was snfficient to maintain the flow .
The size of the orifice of the dtopper did not appeal to be of ollsequence , as I asceltained by .
Of a celtam mount of must h been formed to satul the space left within the d1opping as the vater retrsated .
lt is evident , howevel , that the quantity thus be very small .
At the highest tempelatu at which I have yet vorked specific of water-vapour is what below ] 2,000 , and as the volume of the ( hoppers used did not exceed .
centims. , eight of water to ate this space would be about gram , and temperatures less .
The reater portion of the heat required for such ation ever , have been from the , for the shouldet of the droppet rested on the metal ring at the base of the tube ( Plate 5 , fig. 1 ) , nnd ring a poltion of the imeter .
In order to make celtain of this matter , I lowered the filled into place , the contained watel being ] ightly c than the teml ) ature , and deduced its equivalent in the manner ibed in Appendix II .
, where I show how the capacity of t'ne ) ermometer ( asceltained .
The } eight of water and glass in the dropper being kno , its waterquivalent could also be elnatively obtained by calculation .
It was difficult to accurately asceltain the ture of the dropperjust before Iowering it into the experim ntal lesults in practical agreeme } ) witL calculated OnlPA , disappeared within the dropper have been taken the lorimetel .
It is thus evident that no correction is 1endered necessmy by this ation .
The adoption of the exhaust metlJod involved ce1tain ) anges in } ] cxteliol connections .
The weighing bulbs and mercury trap were ) by the bottle ( Plate 6 , fig. 1 ) .
The connectmg tubes which passed into is bottle to fit and no corks were used .
The calorimeter exit tube did not dip into the but terminated about an inch above the sulface of the acid .
) nometel CCCXCY .
H. ITHS ON THJI LATENT ison with the metel ) tloe of the in the condenser .
tube ) nched i ; one connected with a pump , by hich could be to ttt 20 millitus .
, and the other with a GI of cm WclS Itel n cooling , ' and was allowed to stand 11 ) vessel of water until the temperature had fallen to aboub above to it to exposed the liment .
After renloval from ffie water it nally and placed in a short glass tube closed at both ends by 1 corks , a precisely simi tube closed the same manner being used tare .
The and pper w full hedo about 20 grams .
The filled some homs before an experiment and placed in the balance caso ) wanted .
After the tank tempetatme had become steady tloe its case , having been weighed , wele placed within a larger tube in the tank atel .
The connections of the electric ci ] cuit having been completed , the calorimeter temperature idcnt w the tmk } ) erature ( , the current being tlJell s on to the alternative coil , and thus ( as explained ) the tcmt)turc of external resistances was kept stcndy .
even the current not imctet .
The dloppel and case were then lemoved tloe tank , a silk ) wns passed ] a loop , fused into the top of , and it was loweed its phce at the bottom of the tube Plttte .
) ead tvas and an air-tight piston , consisting of a section ubber nted oglass 1 , was down until it arrived top of the oppCl .
A htly I conical rubber cork , mounted on the closed top of the tnbe eIore all dilfusion evaporation up the ecting ttlbe prevented , and no difficulty was experienced in closing it in a mnnner as to ) absolutely air-tight .
It ) } as to dehy the commoncelnent of the experiment until the dropper atel had assumed the tempetature of the calorimeter .
This took some tims , altbough the } ) elRtUle of the must ( owing to the previous tauk ) have been very nearly .
Observation of the thermometerthe of the cooling by ) introduction of the opping tube .
) btvitcl ) on equalled , the nometel)bsel tUld the } ) rocess repeated until no lrther cooling effect visible .
It possible thut slight evaporation lough the fine opening of the dropper might during be the of some cooling , and I was for a time very it tvas to fix a small capill .
tube [ thin the opper , obherwise the copta ned used to stal boiling when the external was lemoved .
HEAT OF EVAPOR A ] ; uneasy about this point .
I found , ever , that if ) ' was in a desiccatol for 12 with eled , tl lcgs was less than ) ) glam ; it was , tberefote , ) } evaporation took ce ing the pied by } Agnin , ) , afte ] being ] , ) ) fi the beakel tem pe1ature that of the tank , so thnt immelsion vould not to the expulsio]l of any water , provided th the formed at lowel ( the was cooleel in ) balance case did into uppet of ) case the 1e-heating would cttuse a small expulsion , ving to of ) -bubble , } ) vionsly absent the tube .
I it just possible ) this ] ) in ) of the expel inents ( Nos , I. to but , fter No. , I dopted a new of tube , the lower end was turned up fot about 1 , and then any air-bubble formed durmg the coolmg ined at the open ) , and the WiJter , when ultimdtsly expelled ; was the side of the ffisk ( see Phte .
esults of expeliments performed ) fter t ) teration a ) closer eement preceding ones .
When } as found by ation to become quite teady , the contact maker of idge was carefully to the bridge oint ( see p. 288 ) , ( il any ) of the anometer as read .
If was found to be lotv .a futther djustment w. In cases whel 8}.ceeded adj was possible withont ) the } ) ) , so , ence ) conside nble ( , a bwing or 60 , tl1at is , a difference 01\ldquo ; about C. , see Table the meant was proceeded with .
bsel atioJls taken of the the was malked the secolld obseAV{ tion .
gave the ) of of ) the stirring ] ] had to be estimated .
in the c besn evionsly b belotv ) expeliment , and , after the ) at the had regi : , teted tlIe , the ) .
The manometer ] once owed n incrense of ue to ) { lbes into condenser The expal ) of this a cooling eflect , catlsing a of about 90\mdash ; equivalent to ly C. ablo y .
The mannel in this loss } ill bc ) The ater )ving been cut off ) tnp ) brought into action .
the ) om tlIe ) commenced indic.ated th grcat by tlJe gcccl by No. urrent at to cuit ( the ction r itself on the ) lectri , if not perfect , immediately adjusted by Observer No. I. Owing to the alternativecircuit method previously described , only a very adjustment as a rule ed. Observer had now to direct his attention to the maintenance of the thermal balance .
This , as I have )ticipated , was found at first to be matter of some clifficulty , but p ) actirx ; rendeled the task comparatively easy .
The discrepanciss able i ) the expeliments ( Table XL ) are , I expect , measure due to fluctuations in the value of .
As a general rule , the ttion at the start was too the pressure having been too much reduced the Iast stroke of the pump\mdash ; the galvanometer swing amounting to as much as or ( nearly The tap was closed and ( evaporation being prevented ) the electric current was allowed to raise until ) galvanometer ; announced by Observer II .
was about to the previous negative swing ; the time lpied by these two large oscillations being only a minute or two .
lvas then partially opened until it was found that was slowly .
When became equaI to ) rate of cooling was further decreased aIJd during the remainder of experiment the galvanometer swing ( which was called aloud by Observer II .
or 20 seconds ) rarely exceeded 50 or 60 about and in many cases the difference and did not exceed C. in the course of halfAs the whole of the aqueous vapour into the condenser was ) at once bed by the , the pressure slowly increased , and thus gave a further power of adjustment .
The large bulb of the Geissler was kept vacuous and thus , by the tap pressure in the condenser could at any time be decreased .
By one lapid turn of the tap an almost impsrceptible rise of the manometer was catlsed , and a veIy slight difference essule produced a able aIteration in the cooling rate ; thus , if was lising , a smgle revolution of the tap would check the rise , ano old probably give the cooling a slight mastery .
The operations by which ) thelmal was maintained may , as I have described them , ) pear both cumbersoms and difficult .
I can only say that ( after ) first three or four experiments ) the control was nearly perfect and a single oscillation of much as C. }vould have besn considered excessive .
From beginning to end of each experimer ) gleat care was that each positive oscillation should be ; uceeeded by a ldmg negative one .
The electric was also intained by Observer ; but as the temperaturs of the coil did not appxeciably alter ghout , this balancs required but little The taps , ) , as ell as ) handles of the rheochord and all the electric keys , , so placed as to be within leach of Observer I. without change of position .
The high istance galvanometer screen was tely in front of him , and also the mnnometcu , , whose readings were constantly observed .
Near the commencemer ) and end of an e.xperiment the physical strain was great , but when both HEAT OF EVAPORATION OF WATER .
thermal and electrical balances had been finally adjusted there were often intervals of than ten minutes when no alterations had to be made .
From beginning to , the task of was that of announcing the galvanomettl swings\mdash ; a monotonous and tetesting operation , hich , however , required constant attentiou .
When the experiment was approaching its termination a close watch had to be kept , for , unless cutlent was switched off the instant a sudden all the water had been evaporated , the lapse of a few secotlds would have ised cousidstably above .
If , on the othex hand , the cllrrent turned too , it ways possible to switch it on again and raise up to .
After the expeliment it was easy to calculate ( knowing the weight of the empty and the full droppex ) the approxitnate time of ending .
As a rnle I cut off the current tv or three seconds before that time , then ) creased the conside1ably to make sure of evaporating off the last drop of water , again established the curlent , and to just below , repeating this process as often as necessary\mdash ; all the actions recolding themselves on the chronograph .
When had become tely steady , ot only showed the slight increase due to the stirring , it was to absume that all the water had been ated .
The tap as then finally closed , the tap slowly opened , and the air from the drying bottles and allowed to pass in through the 30-feet coil , , in Che tank .
The increase of caused by the complession of this air found , by observation , to be the same as the depression ( previously referled to ) which took place during ustioo , and it was to allow for this rise that set slightly below .
When the internal and extexnal pressures had become eqnal , was closed and the lrrent again switched on if necessary , until the swing became the same the initial swmgs .
If , vever , exceeded , this was not possible , and a correction had :fterwards to be made any differe repeated observation had shown that was steady , Observer II .
tead , as before , galvanometer swings , pressing his chronograph the middle one .
This lecord gave the mination of the , the during which the riug heat hnd to be estimated .
It will be seen from the preceding accouot that , always considerably exceeded the time of electrical supply .
The plugs closing the tube ( Plate 5 , fig. 1 ) wele now ithdrawn , a wit ending hook passed down the tube , the dropper extracted by of its platinum loop , and immediately returned to its case , which was at once corked plttced on the balance , and afierwards weighed , with the valious precautions referled to .
The only operation was that of the taph tape hich the value to second of , and the titue of thousnnd revolutions of the stirrer .
Remarks on Tables XI .
to XIII .
Tables XI .
, XII .
, and give the experimental results ; Table XI .
tlJose at ting to ; Table XII .
those at temperatures near to ; and Table XIIL two experiments at , where the rate of evaporation was but of the former rate .
Any the values of , and 2,1 wonld in these last experiments tell with double force .
Also , the rate of evaporation so ished , it was ) that any depression of the temperature of the evaporating water below vould be about ] of whttt it was when four cells were used , and the magnitude of ) error , caused by such depression , would be indicated .
Had time mitted , I should have repeated these experiments with a still slower of evapolation .
I was , howevel , surprised to find that it was more difficult to maintain the thelmal balance with the with the higher D.P. A number of rently shaped and sized " " oppers \ldquo ; were used , hence the difference in the values of M. As I preferred to aIter the conditions as much as possible , no effort was de to keep the stir1ing rate same for ditferent expeximents .
In most cases the })pers when lemoved aftel an expetiment appeared to be absolutely dry .
In two cases , however , ioms sigus of moisture were visible .
I am at a loss to accounb for this , as I feel sure that evaporation had ceased , and that there was no wntel left on the sulface of the silver fiask .
The moisbore thus remaining was , of cou1se , included in the weighing , and would not therefore introduce any error provided the flc was dry .
It is noticeable , however , that the two experimonts at the end of which this moisture was visibls ( Nos. V. and ) give , as by Table XI .
( b ) , ) highest values for L. * The value of ' will be noticed as high in No. I. Here ws had no idea of the ) when the } ) eliment would finish , and did not allow for the rise caused by the oduction of dry the ) , hence the close of the experiment fonnd too by nearly C. AIso we could only approximate to the valu of , having the of the initial experiment gotten to mark the time of finish .
The )embrnnce of a casual observation of the cl howeveJ , enabled to fix it approximately .
An seconds in would in ) experiment an of quite in , and ) valus rned to is probably within a minute of the During Expeximent II .
a portion of the culy the core of tap became , olving to careless manipulation , sucked the appaIatus , and in some unexplained manner stopped the evapol.iltion for nearly ten , during which the electric cutrent had to be switcbed ever , the accident had but little elfect on the resulting value of L. No. Xl .
was almost ) fact experiment , the thermal balance being maintained vexy closely .
I do not think that the tions in during this experiment at any time amounted to C. , and the external temperature remained , denticaI .
Sltmc dandound tbedwater removed from ) beaker after lilIing , and as the beaker was only roughly Jght to a temperature bove , the values of HEAT OF LVAPORATION OF R. as shown by Col. 1II .
, absolutely unchanged .
It is noticeable that its [ .
is almost exactly the mean value of Experiments .
to I have included in these tables every expe1iment pelformed ) ' the exhaust with exception of one , durmg a portion of which the chronograph ceased to lather matked continuously .
Both accident and its cause wers ouly discovered at the end of the ximent , when it was found that loose piece of wire had shortcuited the ) ograph circuit .
Notation us ed in to XlII .
I. mber of experiment and date .
II .
nperature of the sxpeme ) on the scale .
III .
the initial mass of oppel and contents , the ; hence mass evapol a cases ecterl , , .
Time ( seconds ) ) which the cnrrent tvas passmg the calorimeter ( in seconds ) during which the stirring supply of heat was maintained .
dutation of experiment .
VI .
Number of revolutions pet second of stirler .
Difference between the initial and final tempel.ature of the Jing walls .
This is essed ni trogen scale , of each millimstre of thermon eter aving [ ) previously determined by the ) to in Section , , VlIL nitial cmeter t exceed by , and let ( hual imeter })ature ) exceed by Then this gives of deduced the galvanometet by Table , , IX .
Gives the capacity f'or heat of calorimeter and contents at the temperature of the calorimeter ( Tabls III X. Ths temperaturc of the Clark cells dning the expel iment .
XI .
value of at temperature from Table VI1 .
, Section VIII .
XII .
The average pressurs in the denser d the experiment ( in millimetres of , , .
The approximate essure of saturated vapour at the temperature ( from REGNAULT'S tables ) .
XIV .
The difference betweeu Cols . .
and XII .
This mit of fall of pressure from the flask to the condenser , , along 19 feet of 1larrow tubing .
It must be remembered owin to the presence of tbs the in the fell off gleatl } Col. XIII .
is only useful as indicating value xably exceeding the real ditference between and \ldquo ; No use is ) of this quantity in the reduction of the observ .
) MR. ] .
H. GRIFFITHS ON THE LATEttT of th Observations given in Tables XI .
( a ) to XIII .
( See Tables XII .
( b ) to XIII .
) Col. .
gives the value of The ection for temperature of the cells was made by Lord RAYLBIGH'S coefficieut ( 00077 ) , but , as an inspection of Col. X. ) will show , the correction was in evely case very ] , except in XI .
During the night of ) the Clark cell tank).egulator ceased to work , and I found the cells at a temperature of the next I cotlsidered it better to keep them at that temperature throughout the day than to luise it to few before an experiment , The correction in this ) amounts to 1 iu 1500 , bub is probably accurate to 1 in 5000 .
In colnmumcation to the Royal Society , on , 1894 , Professor SCIIUSTER lntod o in my tion of value of that I had not made rection for the pecihc heat the displacsd by ater , for the lnetl I gttve the diffetence in late of rise when a certain space was { illed hrst with ] and then with wnter .
This ection 1ttises my valne ot by 1 4000 .
the reductions I assulne place of As 1 belore pointed out , if consequence of errols in , \amp ; c. , my ue of is inaccurate , it is still the right value to insert / , where I use the same standards , for of the kind referred to are thus eliminated .
Col. .
The value of , as deduced from VI .
by means of Table Section , , XVII .
The " " stirrmg supl ) \ldquo ; from Cols . .
and V. XVIIL The term from VIII .
, and IX .
, , XIX .
Gives the sum of Cols .
, XVII .
, and XVIII .
, that is , the total number of thermal grams used in evaporating the mass ( Col. IIL ) . .
Iiepeats the value of , in order to render the reference less trouble , , XXI .
The v.due of , deduced from should pptied to the valuos of tho specilic hoat of aniline given in Paper A. In cukc the also depcnded ) the ) SClvations of dvffet ences , and if the corrected valtle of was used , } ' ) cction ior the specific heat of the ail displaced by the aniline wonld } to bc mndc , the lucs l .
E. H. GRIFFITHS ON THII LATENT I have eady remarked that I ttach more value to Experiments .
to Xl .
than to the ones , and I shall SSttms the value of at as 57260 .
The close nent b the means of Nos , XII .
to .
and Nos. XVIL XVIII .
is very .
tiQfactory when it is remembered that the rate of el'aporation is the last case nearly lved .
I need say that , had time permitted , I should have performed more expeliments , especially at .
I do not , howevellsider that the evidence would have been greatly strengtbened .
In the whole of the series from , after the adoption of the bent foll of droppel ) there is experiment gives lesults differing from the mean at tnre by mole than 1 in t430 , and in the groups at the eatest is 1 in 2900 .
The probable mean error of a small roup of experimental results of this kind is therefore less ) the probable errol of some of the constants on which our conclusions are based , and a larger accumulation of such experimental nbers would not necessnrily bring us aJly nealer to the value .
TeInperatnre .
Value of Nitrogcn etcr .
( torms of tIhermal ) at . .
Section 0F TH11 From at in the last section we ( over the ange to C. Suppof , ewi assume with that is a linear function of , it follows that when I admit the ] of to extlapolate to such an extent we have no evid thnt givcn by the experiments .
It 13 a dilferent hen we can dent evidence .
In Section 11 .
1 upon the portance of the experiments of DIETERICI at low , of at tures , the between the values obtained by those ) ones 1es from the above apolation is so extrathat I } detail numbels .
As stated in , the mean value of all expe1iments was 5968 at He , ever , of the experiments ( whose results are given in his Tables II .
and ) as of grenter value othels , because the watel }uded in a instead of a glass and thus its This of 63667 at would become .
If we assume that 1 gram of wate ) gives out 100 thermal units in cooling from to , we get at VALUES of L. I have leaxJled to regard experimental coincidexJcesw ith suspicion , they are so often misleading , but such an uuusual case as the above merits attention .
coincidences the more extraordinary on account of the following considerati DIBTEnICI assumed as his thermal unit the " " mean thermal \ldquo ; from to 10 C. Nolv according to the ratio of the " " mean thermal unit\ldquo ; to the thermal unit at is as 1005 to 1 .
If we assurne ROWLAND'S or BARTOLI ) determinations of the changes below ( my olVD have not e , xtended below that temperature ) we should get " " menn them ) \ldquo ; 1006 unit approximately , and thus DIETERICI'S value of , if expressed in telms of the same tbermal unlb as I have , would be increased to Again , according to RECYAULT ve ought to subtlact from in order to obtain the vtdue of .
This would Some further considerations , however , tend to show that the agreement at both of the line given by my observations is not mereIy fortuitous .
We can deduce the values of lesulting from my exhaust\ldquo ; experiments ( at any temperature ) by the formula , . . . .
Now the minar experiments ( see Table IX .
, exper men see a IX .
, ) although , carry some weight and the of each is in fair agreement with formula .
" " Dc Chnleul Specifique ' de Acad dcs Sciences , ' tome 21 .
HEAT OF VAPORATION OF WATER .
I see nothing impossibIe in this .
As stated in Section IT .
the ) is sufficisnt dence that at low temperatures the capacity for heat ses with rise of temperatu1e .
ROWLAIID foumd a indicated near .
If ) capacity for heat iocreases gradually above some , btl ) near , it is qnite conceivable that the " " mean thelmal utlit\ldquo ; closely oximate to the " " thermal unit at Our only expel )lelltaleviderlce to the contrary is that given by RBGNAULT in his papet , " " De ) \ldquo ; We know that his }lusions at temperatures are mcortect , I do not see that those at higher temperatures have greater value , for his methods of )ltnd experiment were , in this case , unaltered .
The matter , of course , can only be cleared up by a direct Ietelmmlhon of the capacity for heat of water over the ) to In the meantime I contend thnt the evidence in favoul of the f ) nula : total heat \ldquo ; is than that upon which WJNKFLKANN'S formulae are based .
At temperatures above the aloes of " " the total heat ' deduced ) would be higher than REGNAULT'S exper1mental numbers .
The pacity for heat of water at gher temperatures is so ) , and it so ) influence on the lues of at high temperatules when dednced from the " " total he\ldquo ; that I do not feel that a discussion on these results onld at present of any The results of the experimental work described in preceding sections , of the evidence brought forward in tlos section , may be summarise 1 :\mdash ; THE VALUES OBTAINED BY DIETERICI AT , BY EGNAULT AT TO C. , AND BY ]IFFITHS AT INTLBMEt)IATB TAbSU ICQUALITY OF THB ' bIEAN THERMAL IINIT ' AVD try T C. CL0S11LY 1 EP1t1lS1lNTBD BY THE } [ Note , May 7 , t895.\mdash ; The that the thermal )\ldquo ; does rJot exceed the " " thermal unit at has been criticized as over bold .
It is , with peculiar pleasure that I indude in this a commnnication 11 luch I to day received Dr. JOLV , to whom I my sinoere thanks for bis Jission to publish it .
Dr informs me that he egards his expeIiments as their importance , however , is undoubtedly gleat .
They are ) first expotiments since those of ) any on the ) two units .
It will be seen that and to the changes in the capacity { or of .
from to ) the ults Dr. JOLY'S experiments indicate that the ratio in terms ?
the , by moaos of the dinm i acccptc(1 compnrison of ) alnrs ective thermal units , their diiference becomes cxcv .
Mcan ) uuit .
in place of It is parent that thele is sufficient evidence to justify scepticism as to the lity of commonly accepted ratio , ) I hope that the demonstration of this further investigation the actual value of this importan stant .
Note JOLY , on the Ratio of the Latent Heat of Steam to the IIeat of lVater .
Upon receiving from Mr. nIFrITHS a copy of the abstract of his paper on the latent heat of steam , I determine , upon making some eriments with the steam neter on the ratio of the latent heat of steam to the an specific heat of over the rarlgs air tenlpe atuI e to .
Pending tbs completion of a form of alorimett ) which will enable me to make this comparison ovet suitable ' delinite ranges of tempetature , .
add , at .
GRIFFITHS ' request , the following nots on the experiments endy The of water operated upon was 12 grms This was endosed in a thin glass bulb , sealed while the water was boilmg , and having an internal volume of 15714 cllb .
centims. ) experiments were made\mdash ; these were in close agreement .
The mean ature was ; the mean steam temperature .
The st ture was determined by a Kew-corrected thermometer reading faenths on open scale ; ) second tempe , lature determined by a standard barometer .
The meRn weight of steam condensed was ) ) To correct for the effect of the glass vessel , six experiments were made on the laitet when containing dry only .
there t , Olrections were made for evapolation wlthin the vessel ) ) taining water , ( b ) for buoyancy or cement effect on the apparent weight of the vesseL the densities being not qui the same in the experiments on the filled and npty vessel , ( c ) for the specific heat of the air contained the vessel when empty of water .
A total subtractive ( , orrection of .
was obtained .
If we now calculate the mean specific heat of water between and assnming the value of the htent heat of steam given by ' formula , , where has the value , we get I have little doubt that this emain \mdash ; closely\mdash ; the mean speciiic heat , to the steam calorimeter .
It will , of course , be } ecessary to check the result by furthet .
It is true I made experiments in the steam HEAT OF EVAPORATION OF WATER .
orimeter and obtained a higher , but it was in an early and defective form of the instrument , and errol of positive sign , as [ afterwards found , very certainly obtained in those dering this numbel in the light of Mr. GRIFFITHS ' lemarks , it tainly supports his contention that ]GNAULT made an elror of excess in his valus of ] lean c to .
The above number is howeve ] , even less than the value supposed by Mr. TIlS to be the true number .
For , as 1 understand , Mr. GRIFFITIIS ' is calculated on the calorie at C. unity .
If this is also -as Mr. GRIFFITBS suggests as probable\mdash ; m close agreement with ths mean calorie , to , then the mean specific heat from 12 should come out only a very little less than ) nity .
In fact , by plotting BARTOLI and ) vabons below , we can estimate what the mean specific heat from to to be if the meaIl from to 100 is the sams as the specific heat at and both equal unity .
A rough estimate gives this to be Mv value is thersfore too low to be in with the supposition that the mean calorie and the unit are identical .
The value of the latent heat of ste is , of trse , involved , for the steam calorim can only give a ratio , and , if the number now obtained is correct , it follows that either the latent heat assumed is too low , the specific heat of water is even lower than it is supposed to be , or possibly both are somewhat incorrect .
J. JOLY .
Physical Laboratory , l'rinity College , Dubhn .
] S , ction XII.\mdash ; THE DENSITY AND SPECIFIC VOLUME SAIITRATED VAPOUIt DEDIJCED BY IIEANS Ol ' THE THEIIIIODYNANIC FIiOlI THI } VALUES OF L GIVEN BY RMIILA ( WINKELHANN ( as previously stated ) assigns to what he terms the " " theoretical density\ldquo ; of water-vapour the value 6225 ( air ) .
He gives , however , no informntiol)regalding the data for this statement .
The most l.ecent investigation of the } ) arative volumes in which oxygen and hydrogen combine is that by SCOIT , whose conclusions are as follows : * ' ' That 100,000 volumes of oxygen unite with 200,245 volumes of hydrogen to folm wabet .
Applying this to the density of oxygen found by Lord RAYLI ) to be 15882 , get for the atomic weight of oxygen \ldquo ; In clost agreement with this conclusion we have\mdash ; DITTMAR ) S66 .
' .
Trans ' , 1893 , p. 567 .
cicnco PfCSb , , lb04 L. H. FITHS ON THE LAThNT suImng SAYLEIGH vahes we get\mdash ; weight of vapour in pointed out that })sions us to the ( of volumes of ) and , as NAULT had cd Jange in volume of the bulb consequeIlt on changes in pressul.e .
plied this and finds the resuIting comparative densities of aml ogeu to be as follows:\mdash ; ( deduces these nmllber : ) the veights of 1 litre at and 76 , as Air , 129349 rama Hydrogen , 08988 gram .
Hence ) get ' ' sity \ldquo ; of watel-vapour .
I roceed to the density , various temperatures by means of the equation I assume tJle values of the valios quantities to be as follows after SCHUSTEB'S conection for } specific heat of the iisplaoed air , see p. 314 , . . . .
alues of arc leduction experimental aoe as follows : 4 ' PI .
Boy .
Soc , vols .
43 'Comptos Rendus , vol. 106 , pp. 1662-4 , 1888 .
2nd , p. 181 .
S Trav .
et lIem .
du Bur .
Intcrn .
lJcs .
, A lb61 .
HNAT OF ] WATER .
The numbers in Column IIL are obtained by uming g and density of mercury .
resulting values of ( specific volume ) and lsity , are given in the able : TABLE Ths speclfic volume of air was calculatsd by the value of at low temperatures is not known with sufficient to enable us to attach any weight to the resulting values of .
For example , if we take millim. at 0intead of Yllillim .
, we get } place of 6184 .
At temsratules abov \ldquo ; not only is the va[ue of koown greater certainty , but the elfect of any small or is ished .
A nparison of the " " Theoretical Density\ldquo ; ( 6206 ) with the numbels in of the last table , indicates that aqueous vapo at low pressures oximates density to that of a fect gas , but that , at higher , its density exceeds that of a perfect gas .
Above a pressure of about 140 millims. , it appears to attain a density abont 1015 time that of ) " " ) eoretical " " one .
the followmg table shows th lesults of all those experiments at different rates vbere TABLB XXL iments II .
and III .
were only pelformed 1 } ith the object of ascertaining the elfect of changes of late Altl]ougl the differences between may considerable , it must be emembeled that this was only required in order to reduce experiments at lates to soms standard rate ; in reality , wheo we consider that we dealing with the fourth power of the mity is remarkable .
If we plot the values of from the formula . . . . . . . .
( ) , the results are in doss eement with the expelimental ones , especialIy when the l.ats is ( the sxtl enits of late the Latent Heat experiments , the being ) ) .
, if assume our results would ) nearly as dose over the above limited allge , but iments II and 1II .
indicate that the true relation is mole nearly by the previous expression .
In al1y case , the diffsrence between the ) the results as deduced from ( A ) do not differ by 1 in 100 over the above range of rate , and a ditference of 1 in 100 in old only cause a difference of about 1 in 10,000 L. TABLE .\mdash ; The ) eriments at the following results .
HEAT OF EVAPORATION WATER .
If assume we get . . . . . . . .
( ) .
And here the dilferences between the experiments the results from ( B ) are much bslow 1 cent. at rates between 52 and 55 , and again the experiment at higher speeds ( Expt. y ) indicates that is more constant than Applying formulae ( A ) and ( B ) , can deduce the riss fot a rate of 5'300 .
Values of at rate Now ( see Appendix IL , Expsriment IV .
) it vas found that when a similar experiment was performed at , where ths heat supply was thnt due to a potential xence of three Clark cells at together with a stirring supply ( at rate 5277 ) , then mean milhm Now ( from A ) we get at rate 5 ) , therefore 14695 , tb erefore hencs at late 5300(supra ) Now the corrected resistance at this ( Table VIIL ) was ohm the D.P. was that of one Clark cell , and since sec. , we have therma 1nererore ( rate 5 ) thermal ) .
lu the same manner ( Appendix IL , Experiments y. and VI .
) it was found that at , and mula B cnce thermal gram per , ( rate 5 ) thermal Now ssumiDg ( and ( B ) , it follows that , is ) stant , and we can deduce that if 1 be any rate and 5300 the standard rate At temp. ) .
( ) .
I formed oxperin ) at and two at and I give the resnlts only , as the of these ) not required for the reduction of the experiments ibed in this paper I unable ( for want of time ) to prove how nearly the elfect of changes of late could be expressed in the same manner as at and , but as the lats was , the corrections introduced by the reduction to late very small .
The lesults of use , as on plotting the curve of at the four different temperatures it showed no signs of irregularity .
and thus gave additional strength to the determinations at and .
The values are as At temp. 5 0000030 . . . .
( E ) .
At temp. . . . .
( F ) .
The values of , at and receive a tain amount of support from the periments leferred to in SectIon Although my results by that method aried ably amongst themselves , the mean of five experiments at gave 00000802 gram of ) orated per 1 sec. by the stirring aftel .
reduction to , and { he meat1 of experiments at gram of ated p HEAT OF EVAPORATION OF WATER .
Now , if assume at and at , we deduce the of , which are as foIlows:\mdash ; At .
results diffet from those withont nny weighing or passing of air and by 1 in 77 and 1 lespectively .
As order of nccuracy of 1 tvas sufficient my purpose , considered this independent evidence valuable , although I believe ) former llethod to bs by far the most exact .
I also performed a mination of , at by an evaporating experiment .
gave 00000521 gram per Assuming , this would give Q. far too high a as compared with t given by equation ( E ) .
This ltion iment was a very unsatisfactory one , vever , and I attach but little impoltance to any case , the doubt would not affect the values of L. To conclude this portion of the snbject , I admit that it ; oulrl have been advisable to perform more of these ring e , at and , but at the same I think the eilence is sufficient to warrant the assumption that ths values of cannot be in error by as much I ) ) md obably rect to better Appendix II.\mdash ; DDTAILS or T11D ElIlIliNTS BY 1HE CA HBAT OF IRE AS ASCBRTAINED temperature of the } was adjusted in the same manner as described in Appendix I. The time of transit across five bridge-wire divisions about le dings 5 , and 70 ceutims .
was taken , and the times at 60 , 60 , and 70 deduced .
I particulars of Experiment , as that was the one quoted in Appendix , from which the of at 401 was deduced .
HEAT OF EVAPORATION OF WATER .
1 millim. of No. II .
millims. of , and 88240 llillims .
-wire null-point millims. Hence we get 15367 and 14330 as the values of at 55 and 65 centims. .
We can thus dednce the valus at the -point .
We get Now ( Appendix I. ) the value of , for rats 5 , thelefore Now gives the lise per second in deglees C. with unit and unit potential difference , where is the resistance in the ohms of the coil at tempelature the number of Clark cells of P.D. volts , and the value of the bridge-wire milfim .
C. , expressed in terms of the thelmometer ( see p. 289 ) .
Hence if is the time of C. , we get s77 ( see Table VIII therefore cJnd whele capacity heat , , thermal grams .
The following table gives the lents m ) object of obtaining th !
v.llues of HEAT OF EVAPORITION OF WATER .
In Paper A. I have given a full of bhe determination of the valor equivalent\ldquo ; of calorimster , and I have evsry conlidence in the alues there given .
From .
of that Paper I extract the thess experiments , the sllver f contained a mercury was used , during my earlier experiments , to indicate the internal } ' of the flask .
As describsd , a metal conical tube had been cast on to stem of this thermometer by means of the alIoy , and the tube carefully ground into the no ( , of the flask to prsvent any ( sion of vapour up the glass tube , down the thermometer passed .
Afte ] I adopted the " " exhaust\ldquo ; method of perform the experiments , this thermometer was from the appa ] atus ; tlus occul.t.ed between Experiments III .
and lV .
, Table XXIV .
I had forgotten the circumstance , and when I reduced ) results , I was much bled as to dilferent values of given by ExperiInents IL and IV .
, at the same .
It was some time before the cause of the discrepancy suggested itself to me .
I then obtained pproximation to the cnpacity for beat of ) mometer G and tubs , as folIovs : The temperature of both caIorimeter and being steady , the bridge adjusted uIltiI the galvanometer ceased to swing .
Thermometer as then spsnded above the tube communicating with ) iiask , and its temperature lead } ) the scope .
It was then rapidly lowered its place , and observed nntil its temperatule becume ( this took in about 4 to 5 ) .
The tank ) at and the external tsmperature about the thermometex rise about a small error reading as of little consequence .
The contact-m ) -adjusted , and the change in temperature of the deduced on ] the drlference in the readiogs , Hence tho capacity for heat of could be foumd .
experiments ere with the ving resuIts :\mdash ; ( 1 ) 1 52 ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 162 ( 4 ) 1 .
: ) 8 Mean 159 NfDCCC XCV .
2 X HEAT OF VAPORATION 0 the method the leads they pasbed the lid of the .
at and ( fig. 3 ) , ) also the the whele they )assed t tho steel lid see small sketch , Plate , fig. PLATE 6 .
Fig 1 is diagrammatic only , for the various tubes , \amp ; c. , repeatedly crossed each othel .
The on entering passed ough H at , then at afterwards though t. coil indicated at , and thus attained to the tempexattne of the tank water .
] is open scale manometer to show the essule of the gns when entel the flask F. Leaving this flask neJI the top , the vapout avelsed the coil C. ' and ined i of the calorimeter ; it then passed the four-way on ging f om the tank ssed over a ) of small gas jets , shown at G. The tubes between and could swept by ) use of and .
All the )ratus the dotted hnes in the Fig. ttangements of the and the The coil of AB is in series ith the compensatols of CD and Fig. 3 shows the electrical connections with the calorir ) ) etel coil .
A coil in the tank at was of the same as ) calorimete1 coiL By means of the key bhs cultent could be itchsd o to eithel coil .
] also connected with the in manner that all its movs1nents were lecotded .
By means 01 the of the thellb ( leads 2 and 4 ) could be so adjusted that the D.P. at the points ] ways that of the Clark cells .
es uumbeled 1 and 3 are iu cell citcuit .

