1903 .
] The Acquirement of Secondary Sexual Characters .
49 ( t ol)s6rvci/ tions upon th6 Ac^uirGincnt ol Sficondcii j k^exual Characters , indicating the Formation of an Internal Secretion by the Testicle."* By S. G. Shattock and C. G- .
Seligmann .
Communicated by Professor J. B. Bradford , F.R.S. Received December 14 , 1903 , \#151 ; Ptead January 28 , 1904 .
The Problem Stated .
The question taken up in the present communication may be concisely stated as follows :\#151 ; The most prominent and obvious function of the testicle is the formation of the sperm .
Under normal circumstances this is discharged ; it constitutes , that is to say , an external secretion .
In spermatogenesis the male attributes culminate .
There is , however , another element in maleness , of a different kind , less essential , yet in many cases well pronounced , viz. , the acquirement of certain external characters which distinguish the male from the female in many groups of living forms .
That the development of such secondary characters is related to some function of the testicle , appears from the results which follow castration when carried out before the advent of sexual maturity .
On what , then , does the production of these characters depend 1 It is conceivable that the result may be due to a nervous reflex arising out of the physical function of the sexual mechanism .
This view our observations seem to us to disprove .
The genesis of the external male characters must , in our opinion , be transferred from the influence of the nervous system to the realm of chemistry .
It depends , with more probability , upon the formation of a second secretion by the testicle , the absorption of which into the circulation induces the metabolic changes that reveal themselves as secondary sexual characters .
The suggestion that such an internal secretion might be elaborated by the " interstitial cells , " which lie in groups between the tubuli , was put forward by one of us ( S. G. S.)t in 1897 .
The experiments to be recorded were , in fact , primarily designed with the object of eliminating any part that might be played by the tubuli in this connection , and so of determining whether any function could be ascribed to the cells named .
They consisted in ligation of the vasa deferentia in the young of certain forms in which the male exhibits marked secondary characters .
* Towards the expenses of this research a grant was made by the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons ; and by the British Medical Association , on the recommendation of the Scientific Grants Committee of the Association .
t 'British Medical Journal , ' Feb. 20 , 1897 .
VOL. LXXIII .
E 50 Messrs. S. Gr .
Shattock and C. G. Seligmann .
[ Dec. 14 , It appeared possible that the epithelium of the testicular tubuli would , under these circumstances , on proliferating , undergo degeneration and atrophy from the pressure due to its own accumulation , whereas the interstitial ceils of the stroma might remain intact .
This result , however , did not-ensue , but others , which we venture to record as bearing on the problem under consideration .
The forms selected were a breed of sheep ( Herdwick ) , the male of which is furnished with long recurved horns , of which the female is quite destitute , and the common fowl .
Observations upon Sheep .
We owe to the kindness of two friends the opportunity of observing many castrated sheep , as well as a certain number of others on which some form of obliteration of the vas deferens had been practised .
Besides the horned ( Herdwick ) sheep already referred to , we made observations upon the hornless Southdown , in which the results , though less striking , are none the less constant .
The results of occlusion of the vasa deferentia in the Herdwick breed have to be compared with those following castration , and both with the normal standard .
Lambs of the same age were selected , and the procedures mentioned were carried out at about the same time .
The occlusion of the vas deferens was effected a short way above the testicle by the application of a silk ligature in two places and division of the duct between .
The animals were examined at different periods during their growth , and were killed when fully developed at ages of from 10\#151 ; 14 months .
In those castrated either no horns appeared externally , and on preparation the skull exhibited only two low osseous tubercles or horn-cores , or very diminutive horns were produced , and beneath them a slightly more prominent core than in the first case .
In the ewe of the Herdwick breed there is no external trace of horn , nor does the prepared skull show any osseous core .
As contrasted with the results of castration , those of vasotomy are very striking .
The horns attain their full size , and the skull its complete male characters , so that the head in no way differs from that of the normal or intact ram .
The form of the skull is modified by castration , not by double vasotomy , the modification in question being obviously correlated with the absence of horns .
The skull of the castrated sheep , or wether , is less rugged , and the bones thinner , but besides such general differences the plane of the os frontis is continued backwards behind the orbits at a very obtuse angle .
In the intact ram , and equally after vasotomy , the plane of the 1903 .
] The Acquirement of Secondary Sexual Characters .
51 frontal behind the orbit lies almost at a right angle with the interorbital portion of the bone , the horn-cores arising from the upper or horizontal area .
Although the skull generally is thicker in either case than in the wether , this alone does not account for the difference in external form ; the cranial cavity presents a corresponding extension in the frontal region .
In the configuration of its skull , as in the absence of horns , the castrated animal precisely resembles the hornless ewe of the breed .
We have studied the effects of the same procedures upon sheep of a well-known pedigree Southdown herd .
The result in such animals is less striking than in the Herdwick , partly because each sex is hornless , and partly because amongst Southdowns individual variations in the form of the head are not uncommon : thus , whilst the head of the wether usually offers a marked contrast to that of the ram , in certain cases the characters of the two so nearly approximate that even an expert may find it difficult to distinguish between them , the ram under such circumstances being commonly called " wether-headed .
" In the Southdown there is not ( as in the Herdwick ) any marked difference produced by castration in the form of the forehead , the angle between the pre- and post-orbital portions of the frontal bone being equally obtuse in the vasotomised sheep and the wether , and this , for the reason that both are equally destitute of horns .
That the occlusion of the vas had been complete in all the cases observed , was proved by a careful dissection of the testicles after the animals were killed .
Seeing that the full development of male characters proceeds in spite of double vasotomy , it becomes interesting to inquire into the condition of the testicles and into the sexual physiology of the animals themselves .
To take the latter first .
A Southdown , the subject of double vasotomy when a lamb , and kept apart until full grown from any female , was turned loose with a couple of maiden ewes ; he at once copulated , erection and intromission being complete .
The two ewes were not again admitted to the flock , but were kept apart , with the result that neither afterwards proved to be in lamb .
This animal was killed 18 months after the vasotomy .
The testicles had , from the first , grown symmetrically , and had reached the normal size ; dissection revealed a complete interruption of each vas close above the gland .
In certain cases one of the testicles underwent a marked diminution , i.e. , it not merely failed to grow but rapidly wasted .
In the other cases both organs attained the full dimensions .
These differences are to be ascribed to differences in the condition of the blood-supply ; when the vas is cleanly isolated and divided after ligation without the inclusion of vessels , or without the subsequent occurrence of thrombosis , no atrophy of the gland ensues .
When atrophy of one testicle arises , e 2 52 Messrs. S. G. Shattock and 0 .
G. Seligmann .
[ Dec. 14 , the other suffices singly to bring about the full development of the male characters .
A careful dissection , carried out in all the cases of vasotomy examined and cited , showed that the vas had been completely occluded ; not only was its continuity interrupted , but the noose of the ligature was demonstrated on the end of each segment of the divided duct .
The epididymis after occlusion of the vas may become notably larger than normal ; this is especially obvious in the lower end or globus minor , and is to be ascribed to its over-distention with the secretion transmitted from the body of the gland .
Microscopic sections of the testis of the normal adult Herdwick sheep and of that from the vasotomised animal of the same age and killed at the same date , show similar histological pictures .
The tubuli are filled with epithelial cells , and in nearly every one spermatogenesis is in progress.* Experiments v/ pon Fowls .
Even still more striking are the results of double vasotomy in the cockerel of the common fowl .
In the fully grown cock the exposure of the vasa deferentia and their ligation is not particularly difficult , but in the young bird it is otherwise ; and the results cited are limited to those cases where careful dissection afterwards proved that this difficult procedure had been successfully carried out , the continuity of the duct being found interrupted , and the noose of the ligature discovered at the site of operation .
The method of proceeding was as follows:\#151 ; The vas is exposed is its course over the kidney by a curved incision carried through the lateral wall of the abdomen ; the duct having been ligatured as near to the testicle as possible , is then cut across a short distance below the ligated spot , no ligature being placed on the lower segment .
The vas of the other side is afterwards similarly dealt with through a second incision carried through the corresponding side of the abdomen .
Owing to the difficulties of this operation , vasotomy was in some cases performed on one side only , the testicle of the other being removed .
The anaesthetic used was chloroform , and the material of the ligatures , silk .
The results of double vasotomy , or of one-sided vasotomy combined with one-sided castration , are in all cases alike .
When carried out upon the young , immature , bird , or cockerel , the development of the male characters proceeds without any notable interruption , and reaches its full degree .
The birds used in the experiments were so young that it needed an * It may bo incidentally remarked that whilst in the castrated lamb the prostate fails to grow , in those submitted to vasectomy the gland comes to equal in size that of the intact ram .
The same is true of the vesicuhc seminales .
If one testicle is removed and the vas of the other ligatured and cut across , the prostate and vesicuke acquire the full size , and this without asymmetry .
1903 .
] The Acquirement of Secondary Sexual Characters .
53 expert to determine their sex : examination , moreover , of the testicles removed from cockerels subjected to the combined castration-vasotomy just referred to , as well as of those removed from birds of the same brood , showed that no spermatogenesis had arisen at the age selected for operation .
We may adduce examples in order to give the full grounds for the general statement set forth with regard to these experiments .
Double Vasotomy .
\#151 ; Impure " Plymouth Pock , " 7\#151 ; 8 weeks old .
Nine months after the operation the head was male in type ; neck-hackles well developed ; tail beginning to assume male characters ; spurs indicated .
Twelve months after the date of operation the spurs were stout , though short ; head thoroughly male ; neck- and saddle-hackles moderately well developed ; tail short , male in kind , with sickle feathers .
The bird remained in the same condition , and was killed 12 months after the date of the operation .
At the autopsy , the testicles were found to be of full size ( about that of a pigeon 's egg ) , and in their general aspect quite normal .
In connection with the right there was a spermatocele about as large as a haricot bean ; this , on being punctured , gave exit to a whitish fluid which microscopically showed numerous spermatozoa , some of them motile .
The superior segment of the divided vas , or that in connection with the testicle , was dilated ; the upper end of the lower segment was traceable into scar tissue in which it terminated .
On the left side there was no spermatocele in connection with the gland , but the tubuli of the epididymis were abnormally evident .
On each side the noose of the silk ligature was found in situ on the upper segment of the vas , above the level of the lower border of the testicle .
As a second instance we may recount the following :\#151 ; Double Vasotomy.\#151 ; " Plymouth Pock , " about 8 weeks old .
In the summer of the year following the operation the head and neck-hackles were typically male , saddle-hackles fairly so ; tail short , carried almost vertically , contained a number of short curved feathers ; spurs short and stout .
In the winter of the same year the neck- and saddle-hackles were typically male ; tail short , bushy , feathers curved ; spurs long and sharp .
The bird was killed in the spring of the following year .
Dissection showed the left testicle to be of full size , 4 cm .
in longer diameter ; in connection with the upper end of the epididymis is a retention cyst filled with white secretion , and about 1 cm .
in diameter ; the epididymis is , as a whole , enlarged from distension .
The upper end of the lower segment of the vas terminates a short distance above the lower border of the testicle .
The ligature lies situ on the end of the epididymal segment of the vas , which is separated by a distinct interval from the other .
The right testicle is slightly smaller than the left , the epididymis 54 Messrs. S. G. Shattock and C. G. Seligmann .
[ Dec. 14 , distended , and the continuity of the vas interrupted ; the ligature lies in situ on the lower end of the upper segment of the duct .
As an example showing the results of unilateral vasotomy combined with unilateral castration , we may select the following :\#151 ; " Buff Orpington , " about 8 weeks old .
Nine months after the operation the bird was thoroughly male , the comb and wattles being well developed , as well as the neck-hackles and sickle-feathers of the tail .
Twelve months after the date of operation the spurs were sharp .
On being put with a hen the bird immediately copulated , although it had had no previous opportunity of approaching one .
Eighteen months after the operation it was killed .
On dissection the right testicle was found to be of full size , about 3-5 cm .
in the longer diameter ; the epididymis was slightly distended .
A scraping from the divided body of the gland revealed the presence of spermatozoa .
The lower segment of the vas was found to taper off and end quite distinctly about a quarter of an inch below the level of the testicle .
The noose of the ligature was covered with a thin layer of connective tissue , and lay on the posterior surface of the organ .
The position of the ligature may be explained by the general growth of the gland ; this growth would naturally lead to an extension in all directions , and that in the downward direction would , relatively to the testicle , raise the site of the ligature .
On the left side no trace of testicle was found .
Microscopic examination of the body of the testis from the case of double vasotomy first cited shows the tubuli to be full of cells , and spermatogenesis in high activity , all the typical histological pictures being present .
The same holds true of the right testicle from the case of combined vasotomy and castration last detailed .
These results offer a striking contrast to those following a double castration when carried out upon the immature bird .
Double castration was performed through a lateral incision on each side , the testicle being exposed to view , and afterwards carefully disconnected from its attachments with fine forceps , and withdrawn .
In ideal experiments the gland was withdrawn entire ; in others rupture occurred during the process of detachment , the organ being then remoATed piecemeal .
Results of incomplete canonisation.\#151 ; In certain of our experiments it happened that the testicle gave way during its detachment , and that minute fragments were unintentionally left behind .
Sometimes such remnants , as told by subsequent dissection , were left in their normal position ; at others they were dislocated and transplanted upon the adjacent viscera , or abdominal wall .
Under such circumstances the cockerel assumed in different degrees the character of the male .
The actual number of gland remnants left at such imperfect operations , and the position of the grafts resulting from their displacement , varied considerably .
Thus , in one case the dissection of the fully 1903 .
] The Acquirement of Secondary Sexual Characters .
55 grown bird , which had been castrated when from 6\#151 ; 8 weeks old , showed on the left side a spherodial mass of testicular substance , 2 cm .
in diameter , lying in front of the upper part of the kidney , and into the lower end of which the vas deferens is directly traceable .
Hanging in the mid line from a loose " mesorchium " is a spheroidal graft 1-5 cm .
in diameter .
On the right side there is a bi-lobed mass 2-3 cm .
in the chief vertical diameter , with the lower end of which the right vas is directly connected ; closely adherent to the front of the upper lobe of this , though slightly movable over it , is a spheroidal mass 06 cm .
in diameter .
A further oval nodule 07 cm .
in chief diameter is closely adherent to the surface of a coil of the small intestine in the neighbourhood of the liver ; a scraping from this graft when cut through in the recent state showed large numbers of spermatozoa .
Lastly there is a graft of about the same dimensions intimately adherent to the under surface of the liver itself .
The external characters acquired by this bird were fully male throughout .
It may be remarked , in passing , that such grafts do not bear classifying with glandular tumours or adenomata , since they do not grow independently of the general requirements of the body .
For the whole sum of a series of such grafts and hyperplastic remnants does not exceed the volume of the two fully developed testicles .
In this the remnants behave like those of thyroid tissue left experimentally after partial excision of the thyroid gland ; or as do the dormant accessory thyroids after the complete removal of a goitre , when the accessory gland after attaining a certain size ceases to increase further .
or the process , again , resembles the reproduction and hyperplasia of hepatic tissue which follows partial excision of the liver , of a fourth or even half its bulk.* In the most perfect cases of reproduction , each gland attains its full normal size .
A bird was castrated when quite young , 6\#151 ; 8 weeks old .
Six months later , the comb and w'attles presented a medium degree of development ; the spurs were very small .
Nine months after the date of operation , the spurs were still small , and the general male characters ill developed .
Twelve months after the operation , the spurs were short but stout .
Seventeen months after the operation , the comb and wattles were thoroughly male , the neck- and saddle-hackles fully deAreloped , and the spurs long , stout and sharp .
The bird was killed 21 months after the date of the operation .
Each testis was found to be of normal form and full size ; the epididymis well pronounced , and without retention cysts .
Each vas was in every respect normal and filled with white secretion , which microscopically showed countless actively moving spermatozoa .
The history , as above given , shows a marked delay in the development of the male characters , * Ponfick , ' Centralblatfc f. Med. Wiss .
, ' 1894 ; Yon Meister , ' Centralblatt f. Allg .
Path , und Anat .
Path .
, ' 1891 .
56 Messrs. S. G. Shattock and C. G. Seligmann .
[ Dec. 14 , and indicates that these developed pari passu with the reproduction of the testicles , until they ultimately became fully pronounced .
That a comparatively small volume of testicular tissue will suffice to bring about the development of male characters appears from the following result , in which the bird grew to be fully male with the slight exception that the neck-hackles were somewhat less closely set than is normally the case .
" Buff Orpington , " of about 8 weeks , at which time double castration was performed .
Eight months after the operation , the comb was well developed and bright in colour ; the plumage in general , somewhat pale and sparse ; neck-hackles moderately developed spurs small .
Eleven months after the operation , the comb and wattles were well developed ; neck-hackles moderate ; saddle-hackles fairly male ; tail feathers beginning to take the male curve ; spurs grown to the normal male extent .
The bird was killed 17 months after the operation , its condition being as last noted .
Dissection shows on the left side no trace of testicle in its normal position , but an inch and a half lower down , and three quarters of an inch anterior to this spot , there is an oval graft 2'5 cm .
in chief diameter , loosely connected with the lateral wall of the abdomen .
Above it , separated by a distance of 1*5 cm .
and intimately incorporated with the peritoneum , is a second graft 05 cm .
in chief diameter ; and behind or dorsally to this is a further minute nodule 02 cm .
in diameter , and likewise inseparably adherent to the peritoneum .
The vas is extremely fine and traceable to the vacant , original , site of the testicle .
On the right side in the situation of the testis there are two small flattened nodules , the larger , lower , of which , is 08 cm .
in chief , vertical diameter .
Into the lower end of the inferior the vas , diminished in size and empty of secretion , is directly traceable .
A third nodule which lay about 1 cm .
anteriorly to these and slightly lower in the abdominal cavity was removed for microscopic purposes : scrapings from its divided surface disclosed the presence of spermatozoa .
Histologically the largest graft ( that on the left side of the abdomen ) shows closely applied tubuli of full size , every one of which presents the histological pictures typical of active spermatogenesis .
The lumen of the tubuli contains free spermatozoa .
All the cell nuclei are throughout perfectly stained with nuclear dyes , proving that the tissue is living and not in an obsolete or necrotic condition .
The amount of inter-tubular stroma is very small , and supports well formed arterioles and other vessels .
The much greater size of the dislocated graft on the left side of the abdomen , and its high state of activity , suggest that it is the chief element 1903 ] The Acquirement of Secondary Sexual Characters .
57 concerned in the production of the male characters .
This graft is strictly ductless , and is , moreover , entirely disconnected from its proper nervous relations .
But much smaller grafts than any of these may he met with m imperfect castration , and in such circumstances the male characters are correspondingly ill-pronounced .
One must in fact regard the external character of maleness as a quantity which varies proportionally with the amount of gland-tissue present .
As an example of a minimal development of .
such characters associated with a correspondingly small amount of gland-tissue , we may adduce the following observation A cockerel ( impure breed of Plymouth Rock ) was castrated when about 6 weeks old .
The bird was killed 10 months after the date of the operation , when it exhibited the following characters .
The head presented no male development of comb or wattles .
As indications of maleness , however , are the full development of the neck-hackles , a certain development of saddle-hackles , the presence of a few stiaggling badly curved feathers amongth those of the tail , and the growth of short blunt spurs on the legs .
It may be noted that the occurrence of spurs in the hens of this breed is not known , except in the case of old birds .
The bird took no notice of the hens with which it was habitually kept .
On dissection , no trace of either testicle was discovered at the normal site , and no graft , with the exception of a minute nodule the size of a hempseed , which was adherent to the surface of one of the coils of intestine .
Microscopic examination of this minute nodule proved it to consist throughout of testicular tubuli distended with epithelial cells and large numbers of spermatozoa , spermatogenesis being in active progress .
Conclusions .
From the fact that in the young of the Herdwick sheep and fowl , occlusion of the vasa deferentia does not inhibit the full acquirement of secondary male characters , it is clear , in the first place , that the discharge of the sperm is not in any way the factor responsible for the production of the characters referred to .
This conclusion admits of being extended to mean that the production of secondary characters is not due to metabolic changes set up by a nervous reflex arising out of the mere physical function of the sexual mechanism .
This is made still more forcible by the results of incomplete caponisation in those cases where the grafts were found in situations far removed from the normal , and altogether disconnected from the nerve supply proper to the testicle in its natural position and connections .
Such grafts , devoid as they are of any channels communicating externally , and consisting as they do , of tubuli only , are virtually 58 The Acquirement of Secondary Sexual Characters .
[ Dec. 14 , ductless glands , and the metabolic results arising from their function must , as in analogous cases elsewhere , be attributed to the elaboration of an internal secretion and its absorption into the general circulation .
What particular cell elements are concerned in the production of such a secretion cannot as yet be stated .
Various possibilities arise which demand the test of further experiment .
The function of spermatogenesis , although not itself the whole or sufficient cause , may be the initial factor of a dual or even a more complex process .
It is quite within the bounds of possibility that certain of the epithelial cells within the tubuli may produce a pro-secretin such as is produced within the intestinal epithelium ; that the chemical changes accompanying spermatogenesis in other of the cells of the tubule may lead to the conversion of this pro-secretin into a secretin , much as the acid chime does in the case of the pro-secretin present in the intestinal cells ; and that the secretin so formed may , without being shed into the lumen of the tubule , be transferred to the lymph spaces , and thus eventually reach the general circulation , and incite those metabolic changes in distant parts of the body which disclose themselves as secondary sexual characters .
The intimate connection that arises in the process of spermatogenesis between the spermatoblasts and the " sustentacular " cells is a phenomenon not yet explained ; this phenomenon possibly coincides with ' the interaction suggested .
In regard to .
the interstitial cells of the stroma , they have characters so unmistakeably glandular that some secreting function , probably a sexual one , must be assigned to them , and they may , of course , take a part in the elaboration of such a secretion as that suggested .
But the great variation in the proportion of such cells present in different forms of mammals makes it difficult to formulate any hypothesis to test by way of experiment , and we are not as vet in a position to make any statement in regard to them .
We have to acknowledge our indebtedness to Mr. George Jonas , of I)uxforcl , for much technical information ; to Mr. Marcus Van Eaalte for generous help in defraying portion of the expense incurred by the work ; and to Mr. C. S. Wallace , Mr. H. J. Marriage , and Dr. H. C. Jonas , for assistance in various ways and on various occasions .
Preparations illustrating the various observations referred to are now in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons , London .

