]\gt ; ( pre on the ecific Heaf Sc. .
PRANCIS GALTON , , Vice-Prcsideut , in the Chair .
The communications were read : I. " " On the Specific Heat and other physical racters of of Methylic Alcohol and Water , and on certam relations existing between the Specific Hcat of a Mixture or Solution and the Heat evolved or absorbed in its formation By A. DUPRE , Ph. D. , Lecturel .
on at the lVestminster Hospital .
Communicated by W. ODLING , M.B. Received Apri14 , ( Abstract .
) The pure methylic alcohol used these experiments was prepared from rectified wood-spirit according to a process of E. Th. Chapman , being a modified chloride-of-calcium process as inally recommended by Sir Robert Kane .
The lrous alcohol obtained had a specific gravity of at C. ; it boiled at a temperature of C. under a pressure of millims. , had a speciiic he of between the temperatures , and was perfectly miscible with .
in every proportion .
When oxidized with excess of bichromate and sulphuric acid , it yielM nothing but carbonic acid and water .
Section 1 .
Heat .
This is estimated in the usual manner , by heating a known weight of the liquid enclosed in a suitable vessel to a certain temperature , and plunging it , vessel and all , into the water of a calorimeter ; the rise in perature produced will , with the necessary corrections , furnish the requil.ed for th } calculation of the specific heat sought .
This lvas performed by help of the following formula : \mdash ; wherein is the specilic heat cquired ; the water-value of the calorimeter and contents ; ture of the calorimeter at the beginning ; of xtures of Nethylic Alcoh and @37 wheel in the inner cylindric1 space to serve as stirrer .
The steam-oven is heated by the pour of methylic / Icohol .
The mean resuIts are giren in the Table:\mdash ; TABLE I. Section 2 .
Heat produced by Jleth ?
This is estimated by the and water , in the reqnired proportion , iu on annuJar essel similar to the one used for the estimation of the specific heat , and observing the tion of temper ture produced iu the water of a calorimeter in which the annular vessel is immersed .
The units of heat evolved in the of 5 grms. of each mixture were thus cnlculnted and found to be:\mdash ; 10 per cent. ) . . . .
, , . . . . . . . .
60 ccnt . . . . .
, , . . . .
, , . . . .
, , . . .
, 13.164 The erature at hich the mixing took ranged betneen 1 and C. Section 3 .
-points .
The mixtures were boiled in a { lask connected with a condenser , by which the vapours condensed and made to run into the flask ; the composition of the mixture is thus kept as uniform as possible .
The cold liquid runuing is preveuted from by having to pass down a tube placed inside the flask , which it ecomes leated nearly to boiling before it flows into the boiling .
The following Table gives the results , the barometer at millims. The numbers in column 3 are calculated ou the assumption thnt Section 4 .
Attraction .
This is estimated by means of an apparatus similar to the one employui by Gay-Lussac , the height being measured by a cathetometer .
Two capillary lubes are employed , and the mean taken .
The third Table .
gives the length of a column of water equal in weight to the thrui of alcoholic mixture in the second column , and affords , therefore , a of the relative strength of the molecular } ction in the ious m The heights in column 4 are calculated 011 the assumption that they will proportional to the of the constituents .
The experiments are made at a temperature of C. TABLE l@fl ] of Mixtures of Methylic Alcohol and Water .
Section 5 .
Specifl( : Gravity and Rate of xpansion .
Table .
gives the specific gravities of the various mixtures at the temperatures of and C. , water at C. taken as unit , together with the calculated specific vities at C. , and the difference between the speciflc gravities as observed and calculated .
Table VI .
gives the expansion of 100 volumes of the mixtures when heated from to C. , calculated from the data of previous Table .
The figures in column 4 are calculated on the assumption that the expansion is proportional to the volumes of the constituents , the contraction taking )lace on mixing being allowed for .
TABLE weight .
Diffe .
Section 6 .
is eslimated by means of an apparatus similar to the one employed by RegnauIt and Grassi .
-Instead of a reservoir of compressed air a TABLE of Mixtures of Alcohol and Water .
Relation existing between the specific heat of mixtures and the hcat evolved during their formation:\mdash ; 1 .
The difference between the number of heat-units during the mixing of given weights of two substances , at the temperatures and respectively , is equal to the difference veen the number of heat-units required to raise the mixture , and reqnired to aise the two constitueuts taken tely , from the lower to the higher .
Or let and be the units of heat evolved by and at the temperatures respectively , , and the ) ecific h of the mixture and its constituents .
and , then 2 .
Ifmore units of are eL'olved at the higher than at the lower temperature , the specilic heat of the resulfing mixture will be below the calculated mean ; on the other hand , the specific heat of the mixture will be above the meRt , if the number of heat-units be evolved at the temperaturc* .
3 .
The absorption of a lesser Ilumber of heat-units bc of course equivalent to the evolution of a grcatel ) , while the absorptiou of a greater will be to the of a smaller number of heat-units .
A series of Tables ncxt given ] thnt the following mixtures , namely , ethy alcohol and vater , methylic alcohol { acid and water , ylic alcohol and hide of rbon , aqneous solutions of potassium cbloridc , sudium ssium nitrate , and potnssium hydrate , conform to proposition 2 , and all , except the mixture of ethylic nlcohol and ulphide of , also conform { closely as be expected with proposition 1 .
Perfcct is only possible if the specific of each constituent , as well as that of mixture , has been accurately determined between the two temperatures for which the heat evolved on mixing } ) estimated ; and this not , in the mnjority of cases , been done as yet .
The author next points out that , at , the above observations may be explained by ming that a in the constitution of the mixture is produced by a change of temperature .
In some cases a rise in temperature may produce a certain amoullt of decomposition or dissociation , while a fall would be accomI ) Rnied by recombinfttion ; the aPparent specific heat of the mixtnre would thel.eby become ised .
In other cases the reverse may ] ] ) , and the spccific heat of the mixture would fall below mean .
This supposition scems , incompatible lvith the observed rate of expansion of turcs , both of ethylic and methylic alcohol and water .
In these the of expansion some of the mixtures below the mean , ting apparently a more intimate union takes place 011 he , in others the rntc of nsion relation had alrcady been ggcsted by erbJlclot .
has already been pointed out by Pfttundler , as Ivell its by ] The author linally shows that if these propositions should prove to4 an exposition of a general law , they will enable us to calculate the speci4 heat of one constituent of a mixfure or solution , if we know the spec14 heat of the other constituent , the specific heab cf the mixture , and heat evolved or absorbed at two different temperatures between specific heats have been nated .
It may thus be possible to com. pare the specific heat of liquid and solid substances when both are plaoed under similar conditions , and relations may be discovered which at present are masked in consequeuce of the diiference in the physical conditions ot the substances to be compared .
II .
On Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
Part III.\mdash ; On a relatioR between the Surface-tension of Liquids and the Supersaturatio$ of Saline Solutions.\ldquo ; By CHARLES TOMLINSON , F.R.S. , ad G. VAN DER MENSBRUGGHE .
Received Apri16 , 1872 .

