40 Dr. A. D. Waller .
schrift , ' considers that Leva 's observations establish with certainty that the p.-g .
phenomenon depends upon the sweat glands .
Leva 's evidence is particularly strong : he states that in 10 cases the response was abolished by the subcutaneous injection of 1 mgrm .
of atropine sulphate , After 10 to 15 mins , galvanometer deflection , as before , , , 15 " 25 " " " distinctly smaller , " 30 " " " invisible .
A very graphic description indeed , sufficient to convince any unprejudiced hearer , but nevertheless not in my opinion finally conclusive .
Leva is obviously a firm believer in the abolition by atropine , it is possible for a firm believer to watch a more or less steady galvanometer and to responses before atropine and to not see responses half an hour later .
I had in my laboratory , working at this point for months , a very convinced believer , Mrs. Markbreiter , B.Sc. London , whose report I subjoin .
For my own part I do not consider Mrs. M. 's results to be confirmatory of Leva 's statements and I regard the latter as inconclusive .
The Effect of Atropine on the Emotive Response .
By Bita Markbreiter , B.Sc. Lond. Otto Yeraguth in 1904 gave the name psycho-galvanic reflex to the following phenomenon , namely , if a current is passed through the body of a subject who is then excited emotionally , either psychically or through one or more of the sense organs , the said current is increased .
Investigators at once asked themselves the question which set of nerves and what cells of the body were concerned in this electrical change .
Certain facts pointed to the sweat glands being primarily concerned , and it was thought the emotions aroused caused secretion of the sweat glands to take place , and so gave changed conductivity .
Atropine has the effect of temporarily stopping glandular secretion , and therefore provides an obvious means of proving the above statement .
Yeraguth was the first to carry out an atropine experiment : he placed a belladonna plaster on his subject for several days , then took it off , washed the hands with atropine sulphate , and connected the subject with the instrument-He found that the p.-g .
reflex was much smaller than in the normal subject , but not entirely extinguished .
Dr. J. Leva in 1913 experimented to find out whether different parts of the body gave different psycho-galvanic results .
He found that the field Concerning Emotive Phenomena .
of sweat glands and the field of the p.-g .
reflex corresponded with one another in a very close manner .
To add a conclusive proof he again carried out atropine experiments .
The following is an extract from his paper :\#151 ; " Ten subjects , who showed the p.-g .
reflex in a normal manner were injected subcutaneously on any spot chosen with 1 mgrm .
of atropine sulphate .
The subsequent observations were as follows:\#151 ; Directly after the injection , and for the next 10 to 15 minutes , the galvanometer movement was of normal size .
After 15 to 25 minutes it became noticeably smaller , and after about 30 minutes , even after the strongest stimulus , no galvanometer reaction could be noticed .
" As neither Yeraguth nor Leva publish photographs nor give any very detailed accounts of these experiments , it was thought worth while to carry them out yet once again .
Apparatus .
In the first two experiments a single circuit was used , and only the atropinised hand was connected to the instrument\#151 ; the circuit consisted of two Leclanche cells , a resistance box , the subject , shunt , and galvanometer ; the resistance box and subject being put into the circuit separately or simultaneously by means of keys .
It was thought , however , that no conclusive results could be arrived at unless simultaneous records were taken of an atropinised and a normal hand , therefore the remaining experiments were carried out on Dr. Waller 's apparatus , which consisted of two circuits , each of which was a Wheatstone bridge\#151 ; in one arm of which is placed the subject , and in the other a resistance box , so that the resistance of the subject can be read directly without any subsequent calculation .
The electrodes used were zinc discs covered with blotting paper soaked in ZnS04 .
The galvanometer excursions were photographed .
Experiment 1.\#151 ; On November 3 , two pieces of 1 per cent , belladonna plaster were put on the palm of the left hand and forearm respectively .
On November 8 the plaster was taken off , and the subject put into the circuit with the electrodes placed where the plaster had been .
The stimulus given was a single sharp blow .
The electrodes were then placed on the normal right palm and forearm , and the same stimulus applied .
The results obtained from the two hands did not differ appreciably from one another .
Experiment 2 , November 16.\#151 ; At 2.25 p.m. the subject was injected in the left palm with 1/ 200 grain atropine sulphate ( 0'000325 grm. ) .
At 3.5 p.m. the subject was put into the circuit , and a record was taken .
Dr. A. D. Waller .
There was no apparent electrical reponse to three successive stimuli of smelling " xylol .
" However , it is noteworthy that on this occasion the resistance of the hand was very high , so that any alteration of resistance , due to the stimulus , of less than 1000 ohms would hardly be noticeable with the given sensitivity of the galvanometer .
In the record taken of the normal hand , the same stimulus did give an alteration of less than 1000 ohms , but in this case it is quite noticeable , because the initial resistance was so much lower .
In the following experiments the subject was put into the double circuit , which Dr. Waller very kindly worked .
In this apparatus , by adjusting the resistance box and the shunt , so as always to bring the spots of light back to zero , the sensitivity of the two galvanometers can be made almost identical , whatever difference of resistance exists between the two hands .
Experiment 3 , November 30.\#151 ; At 1.25 p.m. subject injected in the left palm with 1/ 200 grain ( 0-000325 grin .
) atropine sulphate .
Subject put into the circuits at 3.15 p.m. Stimulus by a whiff of nitro-chloroform .
No difference in reaction to be seen between the atropinised and non-atropinised hands .
y O i Z Fig. 6 .
Concerning Emotive Phenomena .
Experiment 4 , December 12.\#151 ; At 2.30 p.m. subject injected as before ( 1/ 200 grain ) .
At 2.45 p.m. subject put into the circuits .
The resistance of .the atropinised hand was low at first , but as the atropine began to take effect it became higher and higher .
Record taken at 3.15 p.m. Various stimuli were used .
The results were negative as in Experiment 3 , i.e. , emotive responses persisted in both palms .
Experiment 5 , January 3.\#151 ; At 2.0 p.m. the subject was injected in the left palm with 1-5 mgrm .
atropine sulphate .
At 2.30 p.m. the subject was put into the circuits , various stimuli were used .
No appreciable difference was noticed between the response of the atropinised and that of the normal hand .
Experiment 6.\#151 ; To make quite sure of these results , Miss De Decker very kindly allowed herself to be injected with 2 mgrm .
( 000195 grm. ) of atropine sulphate .
She was then put into the circuits , and the results were observed by two witnesses .
On applying a stimulus , equal responses were obtained from both hands .
The drug took full effect , great dryness , parching of the throat , and a headache resulted .
( Details of this experiment are given by Dr. Waller , p. 38 .
) Conclusions .
I cannot feel that any very definite conclusions can be drawn from these experiments .
For instance , the discrepancy between these results and those of Dr. Leva may be due , it seems to me , to one of two reasons .
( 1 ) It may be due to the different effect of atropine on different people\#151 ; a fact well known to doctors ; this could only be decided by carrying out the same experiment on a great number of subjects .
( 2 ) It may be due to technical errors .
Dr. Leva does not give any details of his technique , nor does he state whether or not he noted the resistance of his subjects .
As seen in Experiment 2 , if the resistance is very high the change due to the stimulus may not be seen on a mediumly sensitive instrument\#151 ; there should be some means of altering the sensitivity of the galvanometers according to the resistances so as to get all results comparable to one another .
Atropine , in stopping the secretions , makes the resistance higher , so that it is quite possible that in Dr. Leva 's experiments the response really took place , but was not detected by the galvanometer .
In these experiments at any rate atropine had no effect on the emotive response .
My best thanks are due to Dr. Waller for all his help .

