Degenerative Changes in Sensory End Organs of 61 oon as , with the increase in size and complexity of the spore-bearing dant , a vegetation capable of affording shade came into existence , he conditions suitable for the persistence of the more primitive , lga-like , sexual stage in the life history would be present .
The atter has , of course , also been modified in various ways .
In the concluding portion of this paper , the theories of antithetic md homologous alternation are compared by considering the expla-lations they afford of the facts .
The general conclusion reached is -hat , while both afford a possible explanation of the facts of altercation in archegoniate plants , any evidence which would render one or the other untenable is wanting .
The reasons on which either is considered more probable depend on the views held as to the lines of descent which have been followed , and the degree to which the different groups of archegoniate plants have had a common origin , or represent actual steps in the process of evolution of the sporo-phyte .
Under these circumstances the question must be regarded as an open one until the available lines of evidence have been more fully investigated .
I am especially indebted to Dr. Scott and Professor Bower for their assistance and advice ; the work was commenced in the Jodiell Laboratory of the Royal Gardens , Kew , and subsequently carried on in the Botanical Laboratory of the University of Glasgow .
" Experimental Observations on the early Degenerative Changes in the Sensory End Organs of Muscles .
" By F. E. Batten , M.D. Communicated by Professor Victor Horsley , F.R.fe .
Received February 17 , \#151 ; Read March 3 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments described in the following paper were undertaken in order to show , firstly , that degeneration occurred in the first place in that part of the neuron most remote from the cell , and secondly , to reproduce within the muscle-spindle , if possible , certain changes which had been shown by the author to be present in the case of tabes dorsalis in man .
The method of experiment was as follows : \#151 ; Dogs were selected , and the mixed roots of the 5th cervical to the 1st dorsal inclusive were divided , and the animals killed at the following periods after section of the nerve , viz. , 24 , 48 , 72 , 96 , 120 hours , and 7 and 14 1 days .
From the biceps muscle after being treated by Sihlers met io mnscle-spindles were teased out ; some of these were mounted with i out further staining , others were treated by Marchi 's method , otlicis were stained by the Marchi-Pal method .
62 degenerative Changes in Sensory JCnd Organs of Muscles .
The normal muscle-spindle showed the existence of a spiral form of nerve termination in connection with the large nerve fibre tha passes to the equatorial region of the spindle , this spiral nervt termination is shown to wind round a muscle fibre , which at this point contains large cells , at one point completely filling the musch fibre and interrupting the striation , but tailing off in either direc tion so that the cells come to lie in the centre of the muscle fibre .
It is then shown that in twenty-four hours after section of the nerve changes may be seen in this spiral termination , and that in forty-eight hours after section of the nerve the spiral is no longer recognisable , oval and elongated granular cells now making their appearance .
Changes then appear in the large intramuscular cells .
The musculo-spiral nerve was then examined in three parts of its course , ( 1 ) in the muscle , ( 2 ) at its entrance into the muscle , ( 3 ) near its origin , at various periods after section of the nerve .
No obvious change could be found in the nerve till between the fifth and seventh day after section of the nerve , and at that time degeneration was as marked in the central portion of the nerve as in the peripheral ( Marchi and Marchi-Pal methods were used ) .
The existence of a spiral form of nerve termination has already been described by Ruffini as encircling a muscle fibre , and other authors refer to a spiral within the muscle-spindle ; but it has not , I believe , been shown that the spiral encircles the large intramuscular cells first described by Kiihne .
Early degeneration was first described by Cattaneo in the nerve termination in the musculo-tendon organ twenty hours after section I of the nerve .
Both these investigators used the gold-chloride j method , in the present research Sihler 's method has been used .
The results of the research have been to show_ ( 1 ) That within the muscle-spindle a spiral form of nerve ter-1 mmation exists surrounding a fine muscular fibre , in the centre of which are large , clear , non-nucleated cells .
( 2 ) That changes take place in the spiral in twenty-four hours 1 alter section of the nerve , and that such changes become marked in I forty-eight hours .
( 3 ) That degeneration of the medullated sheath of the nerve takes 1 in ^ e course of the nerve at the same time after section 1 or the nerve .
( 4 ) That no fatty change could be demonstrated in the intramuscular cells by the Marchi method similar to those found in the case or tabes dorsalis in man .

