'474 Dr. G. L. Johnson .
Contributions to the received from the Society for the last five years during which investigations on Electric Radiation have been in progress at the Presidency College .
I may say that the difficulties have been very numerous and disheartening , and that without this encouragement the work which it has been my good fortune to carry out would in all probability have remained unaccomplished .
The Government of Bengal has also been pleased to evince a generous interest in these investigations .
My assistant , Mr. Jagadindu Ray , and my pupils , Messrs. P. K. Sen , B.A. , and B. C. Sen , B.A. , have rendered me active assistance .
] " Contributions to the Comparative Anatomy of the Mammalian Eye , chiefly based on Ophthalmoscopic Examination .
" By George Lindsay Johnson , M.D. , E.R.C.S. Communicated by Hans Gadow , F.R.S. Received May 7 , \#151 ; Read May 17 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) Observations were made on the eye of the living animal , 181 different species being examined , and frequently several individuals of the same species .
The species comprise representatives of all the Mammalian orders except the Cetacea and Sirenia .
The conclusions arrived at can be summed up as follows \#151 ; The colour of the Fundus oculi in animals devoid of a Tapetum is mainly determined by reflection from the choroidal pigment ; in those with a Tapetum cellulosum ( Carnivores ) by the colour of the retinal pigment ; in those with a Tapetum fibrosum ( Ungulates ) by the structural colour of the Tapetum modified by the colour of the retinal pigment .
All the animals examined may be classed under three types \#151 ; red , yellow , and green .
The vascularisationof the retina can be summarised as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
Indirect supply by means of osmosis from the vessels of neighbouring parts .
A. Hyaloid supply .
( ) The corpus vitreum is nourished by a processus falciformis , the hyaloid vessels lying well inside the corpus vitreum ( Elasmobranchs ) .
( b ) The hyaloid vessels spread over the surface of the corpus vitreum , being in consequence in the immediate vicinity of the retina ( .
, holosteus and many teleosteous fishes ) .
Hereto belong also the Amphibia and most of the Reptiles devoid of a pecten .
B. Choroidal supply .
This is probably the chief supply of the retina in those animals which possess a well-developed pecten ( most Sauropsida ) , but are devoid of superficial hyaloid vessels .
This choroidal supply by osmosis is also with certainty demonstrated in the Mammalia for at least part of the thickness of the retina .
2 .
Direct supply .
A. From the superficial hyaloid vessels .
This is Comparative Anatomy of the Mammalian Eye .
475 known to be the case when the hyaloid vessels are directly continued into the retina , where they produce two vascular layers .
B. From special retinal vessels cumulating in the art .
centralis .
This mode is restricted to the Mammalia and some of the Snakes .
The vessels of the falciform process of the fishes and the central hyaline artery , wherever this occurs , are essentially the same .
The falciform process and the pecten are analogous , but not homologous , structures .
In Reptiles and Birds the hyaloid artery is superseded by a new development , viz. , the Pectinal system .
In some of the lower Mammalia both systems actually occur side by side , but both are rendered unnecessary by the development of a third system of supply , viz. , special retinal vessels , which ultimately culminate in the possession of an art .
and Vena centralis retinae .
Some of the normal conditions observable in certain animals closely resemble those which we find in Man as congenital defects or vestigial .
1 .
Membrana nictitans .
A fully developed nictitating membrane active enough to sweep the whole cornea , exists only in the Ungulata , and not even throughout this order .
In the Carnivora and Marsupials it is much less developed , whilst throughout the Primates , Rodents , Edentata , and Echidna it is still more reduced , and , with rare exceptions , entirely without movement .
The primary use of this third lid , viz. , that of cleaning the corneal surface , is lost within the class of the Mammalia , and seems to serve chiefly to protect the eye in the animals which graze and poke their heads down into the long and sharp grass .
2 .
The retractor muscle of the eyeball is of frequent occurrence , chiefly in Marsupials , Edentates , Rodents , and Ungulates , i.e. , in the lower orders of Mammals .
3 .
Opaque nerve fibres .
All stages of opacity occur congenitally in Man , and are to be found normally throughout the Mammalia .
Opaque nerve fibres are most marked in some of the Rodents and Marsupials .
4 .
Physiological cup and congenital discoloration of the disc frequently occur in Man .
An appearances similar to the physiological cup occurs in all the Felidae , and in a considerable number of the other Carnivora ; also in the Flying Squirrels and some of the other Rodents .
White and grey discs occur normally in a number of animals widely separated in classification , such as the Skunk , Rhinoceros , Porcupine , Armadillo , and Echidna .
5 .
Structures protruding from the disc into the corpus vitreum .
A. Persistent hyaline artery .
This congenital defect in Man is found as a normal condition in nearly all the Ruminants and in a large number of Rodents , B. Vestiges of a pecten .
In some of the Rodents , more especially in all the Agoutis , a button-shaped vascular pigmented " rudimentary pecten protrudes from the disc into the vitreous .
It is remarkable to find in the Mammalia a relic of this Sauropsidan organ/ In a number of Marsupials vascular protuberances from the disc into the vitreous occur in different forms .
6 .
Colobomata .
The papillary 476 Dr. G. L. Johnson .
Contributions to the coloboma ( Fuchs ' Coloboma ) has its analogy in a white or coloured scleral ring , which is normally met with in a large number of animals .
7 .
Retinitis pigmentosa .
In the Galagos and Lorides a spreading of pigment occurs circumferentially in the retina , which greatly resembles Retinitis pigmentosa .
If these nocturnal animals are exposed for prolonged periods to daylight the pigment advances concentrically , similar to the manner in which it progresses in Man , so that the animals gradually go blind .
8 .
Visible choroidal vessels and stippled fundus .
Visible choroidal vessels occur in most of the Simiae below Hylobates , and in a number of the other orders .
They are most marked in the Macropodidae , and some of the other Marsupials , which present the appearance observable in the extreme cases of the analogous congenital defect in Man .
Stippled fundi are found in the feline Douroucouli and in the Lemurs , an appearance occasionally met with in Man .
9 .
Ectropion of the Uvea .
In a number of the Ungulates , which have large oval pupils , pigmented excrescences of the iris are met with , and these evidently serve to screen the eye against glare , since their pupils only contract moderately to light .
In the Hyracoidse we meet with a distinct specialised organ , which can be projected from the iris towards the cornea , like a small screen , and this I propose to call the " Umbraculum .
" The divergence of the optic axes follows the classification to a marked degree .
The higher the order the nearer the axes approach parallel vision .
Parallel vision with the power of convergence only occurs in those animals which possess a true macula , viz. , Man and all the Simiae .
In other words , convergence appears to be the necessary outcome of a macula .
This macula , which is bounded by a reflex ring , exists in all the Simiae without exception , and in no other Mammals , so that it ceases with the last of the Simiae .
If we eliminate the domestic animals in which the refraction varies over considerable limits in all directions , we find throughout the Mammalia , with a few notable exceptions , vision is hypermetropic .
The eyes of amphibious and marine Mammals are adapted for vision in two ways .
Those which live in fresh water have immensely developed ciliary muscles and proportionally increased accommodative power , enabling them to compensate for the loss of the refractive power of the cornea when the eye is submerged .
In the marine Mammals , i.e. , Pinnipedia and Cetacea , not only is this ciliary muscle greatly developed , but there is always a large area of the cornea which is flattened in the horizontal meridian , producing an extraordinary degree of astigmatism .
Binocular Vision.\#151 ; It seems that if Mammals below the Simiae have binocular vision , they do not rely entirely on it .
With the exception of Man and the Simiae , Mammals very rarely move their eyes for the purposes of vision , but move their heads instead .
Comparative Anatomy of the Mammalian Eye .
477 In all the Mammals below the Simise which have no macula we find a larger sensitive area .
Sensitive areas of restricted dimensions ) omitljng those cases in which the area is limited to a macula , exist in the Carnivora , in which order the divergence is not great .
In the Ungulates , Rodents , Edentates , and Marsupials , where we find great divergence of the axes , large cornese , and nearly spherical lenses , the sensitive areas are larger , and probably the degree of difference in perception over such areas , compared with the more peripheral parts , is but little .
The great transparency of the retina and the extreme brilliancy of the reflecting surface of the choroid in the vast majority of Mammals , and an extraordinary prevalence of colours of every hue , lead one irresistibly to the conclusion that the rays of light do not form an image on the retina as usually taught , but that the image is formed behind the retina on the brilliant surface of the Tape turn or fusca pigment layer of the choroid , and is then reflected back on to the terminals of the bacillary layer .
This arrangement for vision certainly bears a close resemblance to Lippmann 's method of obtaining coloured negatives .
He obtained negatives in natural colours by placing a reflecting mercury surface in direct contact with the sensitive film , thus reflecting the light which had traversed the film on to the particles of sensitised silver .
In the eye the light passes through the nearly transparent retina ( which is analogous to the photographic film ) to be reflected from the Tapetum , or choroidal pigment , on to the terminals of the retinal elements ( which may be compared to the particles of silver haloid ) .
In Lippmann 's device the colours are produced by interference .
If we venture to carry our analogy still further , we may presume the same occurs in the eye .
One difference between the two methods is that in nature the reflecting surface is always coloured , and only reflects a portion of the incident light .
The colour of the fundus , however , is remarkable for the absence of blues and violets and the great prominence of red , yellow , and green colours .
Yellow and orange are the prevailing colours in nocturnal animals .
The peripheral area , which is characteristic of animals possessing a Tapetum , is usually dark brown , and reflects but feebly .
It is probably nearly insensible to light , as it never occurs in animals having great divergence of the optic axes .
The eye is no exception to the rule that domestication greatly increases variability .
The colour of the Fundus oculi of domesticated races differs not only from that of the wild species from which the races are supposed to be derived , but the colour varies also individually , an occurrence almost unknown in wild species .
The influence of domestication is also indicated by the frequent occurrence of myopia and astigmatism .
Myopia , is almost unknown in wild animals , but it may occur in wild specimens which have long been kept in captivity .
478 Mr. L. Hill .
The Influence of Increased Atmospheric Although no sound classification can be based on one single organ , a striking concordance exists between an attempted arrangement of the Mammalia according to the Fundus oculi and the most modern classification .
The cases of disagreement are wonderfully few .
These are restricted to the following:\#151 ; Chrysothrix leans towards the Arctopitheci .
I find it necessary to separate the Galagos from the rest of the Lemurs\#151 ; at least , as a subfamily .
In the smaller Carnivores it is advisable to establish a separate family , the Cynididce , to include the otherwise viverrine genera , Cynictis and Galictis , together with Mephitis , hitherto placed with the Mus-telidse .
The Sciuromorpha should be divided into Sciuridse and Ptero-myidse , and Castor should decidedly be removed into the Hystricomorpha group , perhaps into the vicinity of the Octodontidae .
The Bats rank very low so far as the eye is concerned , possibly on account of their nocturnal habits .
Among the Marsupials the Diprotodontia are decidedly lower than the Polyprotodontia chiefly on account of the high degree of development of the eyes of the Didelphidae and Dasyuridae .
Since we meet with genera of the lowest type along with others of the highest type of retinal vascularisation , and again some without and others with the additional relic or specialisation of a Tapetum , it follows that the details of the vascularisation and of the Tapetum have been developed independently in the various main branches of the Mammalia .
In fine , the whole Fundus oculi affords a striking illustration of the working of progressive evolution , an example all the more valuable , since it illustrates the direct modifying effect of external factors upon a highly specialised organ\#151 ; in the present case the continued influence of light upon the eye .
" The Influence of Increased Atmospheric Pressure on the Circulation of the Blood .
( Preliminary Note .
) " By Leonard Hill , M.B. Communicated by Dr. Mott , F.R.S. Received March 22 , \#151 ; Read May 17 , 1900 " .
Paul Bert* recorded the arterial pressure in two dogs which he introduced , together with the kymograph , into a chamber , and submitted to a + pressure of 53 cm .
Hg .
The atmospheric pressure was raised to this height in the course of three-quarters of an hour .
The mean arterial pressure rose in one dog 16 mm. Hg .
, in the other 46 mm. Hg .
; the pulse frequency fell in the first from 216 to 200 , and the respiration from 41 to 29 per minute .
The respiratory oscillations of blood-pressure became increased .
Bert ascribes the results * ' l'ression BaromStrique , ' Paris , 1878 , p. 838 .

