[ 779 ] VII The Pathology of the ( Edema which accompanies Passive Congestion .
Walter S. Lazarus-Barlow , M.D. , M.R.C.P. { From the Pathological Laboratory , Cambridge .
) Communicated by Professor C. S. Roy , Received December 22 , 1893 , \#151 ; Read January 25 , 1894 .
Section I.\#151 ; Introductory .
xperiments detailed in the following pages refer solely to the so-called passive i , the active , hydrsemic , chlorotic , and cachectic varieties not being taken into eration .
The view usually held at the present day is that the oedema m on results from an obstacle to the return of blood by the veins to the heart , or flow of lymph through the lymphatics , or to both combined ; in other words b is of mechanical origin .
Section II.\#151 ; Authorities .
3 literature of the subject of oedema begins so far as I can learn with Richard eb* who in his ' Tractatus de Corde , ' in 1680 , stated the view that the oedema *diac disease depends upon venous obstruction .
This view was not univei sally ted , but in 1823 , BouiLLARDt by his work strongly supported Lower .
In , AndralJ came to the conclusion that the obstruction of many veins is neces the free anastomosis of the veins readily allowing the blood to proceed towards ieart after the obliteration of one\#151 ; even if that be the main trunk of the limb .
369 , RanvierS repeated Lower 's experiments , but failed to obtain any oedema , fterwards modified Lower 's method of ligaturing the inferior vena cava , by ng thereto section of the sciatic nerve on one side .
On this side oedema appear , other limb remained free from it .
The first evidence of oedema was visible nd the tendo achillis , and came on about an hour after section of the neive .
* Lower , ' Tractatus de Corde , ' \amp ; c. , 1680 , p. 81 .
t Bouillard , " De l'obliteration des veins , " ' Arch , gener .
de Med. , ' 1823 , vol. 2 , p. 188 .
t Andral , * Path .
Anat .
, * cited by Perls , ' Lehrb .
d. Allge .
Path .
, \amp ; c. , p. 53 .
| Raryier , ' Comptes Reudus , ' 1869 , vol. 69 , No. 25 .
23* 11\#187 ; 94 Bouillard , who was present at the reading of the paper before the French Acad regarded this as another variety of oedema , but in no way as contradicting the ; \#166 ; rence of passive oedema from obliteration of veins which he had himself pr'd^[ experimentally in several cases , and had seen clinically produced hundreds of t* Cohnheim , * who did more work on the whole subject of oedema than any pre\u investigator , regarded the cardiac or passive variety as " the result of two prcssfeg , venous obstruction , and arterial pressure , which , acting against one another else an outpouring of fluid through the walls of the thinnest vessels , the capillaries lIK ' probably also the smallest veins .
" Banvier 's results he regarded not as showing importance of the vaso-motor nerves , as their author insisted , but he explained oedema by pointing out that " the congestion resulting from section of the nerveerv unfavourably modifies the inequality between inflow and outflow .
" In 1875 , Vrlia^ gave the account of an experiment in which he tied the inferior vena cava a th below the kidneys .
The animal only lived twenty hours , but before deatl"i very evident commencement of oedematous infiltration of the two limbs hacbeo noticed .
" In 1879 , SotnitschewskyJ working in Cohnheim 's laboratory .pro duCed oedema by obliteration of the vein and its collateral branches wr a injection containing plaster of paris .
In 1881 , Cornil and BanvierS statedha " if in an animal in which one has tied a vein , the vaso-motor nerves be cu : th arteries being dilated , a larger amount of blood reaches the part and the tisio becomes sufficient to lead to transudation of serum .
This increased tension ti true cause of dropsy , if this tension be sufficient , independently of obliteration f ti veins , oedema will occur .
All kinds of oedema , except , perhaps , the oedema of cacexi may be referred to the same cause .
" In 1889 , Wooldridge|| wrote , " If a static of fibrinogen be injected into the circulation through the jugular vein and the finer vein be then ligatured , the effect is most pronounced , and is as follows : eitbr tl most extensive and rapidly developing simple oedema of the leg occurs , or arenc mous haemorrhage " per diapedesin " takes place throughout the tissues of theiml or the two are combined\#151 ; there is haemorrhage and oedema .
" Since that time i chief work that bears upon the subject of oedema is that by Waymouth Bel which he showed that the absorption of fluid by the frog 's skin and by the in is not osmotic but depends upon some process which he calls " vital secretory far as his work goes , though he has not turned his attention to oedema as a sears question , it is the basis of that view of oedema which is held by Sir { Jo\#174 ; * Cohnheim , 'Allge .
Path .
, ' Berlin , 1877 , vol. 1 , p. 121 .
-j- Vttt.pta~nt , ' Lemons sur l'Appareil vaso-moteur , ' Paris , 1875 , vol. 2 , p. 591 .
X Sotnitschewsky , " Ueber Stauungscedem , " * Virch .
Arch. , ' 1879 , vol. / 7 , p. 85 .
S Cornil and Ranvier , 1 Histologie Pathologique , ' 2nd ed. , Paris , 1881 , vol. 1 , p. 491 .
|| Wooldridge , " On Auto-infection in Cardiac Disease , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , 1889 , vol. 45 , p. .
Waymouth Reid , 'Brit .
Med. Journ. , ' 1890 , vol. 1 , p. 165 ; ibid. , 1892 , vol. 1 , Peb .
18i|j^ 28th ' Journ. of Phys. , ' vol. 11 , p. 312 .
the oedema which accompanies PASSIVE CONGESTION , 781 * aQ(j which regards the outpouring of oedema fluid as the result of a vital .y action of the smaller blood-vessels , tm up , passive oedema has been regarded as : Mechanical .
( a. ) The result of venous obstruction .
( b. ) The result of inequality between inflow and outflow ( Cohnheim ) .
( c. ) The result of increased tension dependent upon vaso-motor dilatation ( Cornil and It an vie r ) .
( d ) The result of venous and lymphatic obstruction .
[ .
Vital secretory ( Johnson ) .
I The result of auto-infection by tissue-fibrinogen ( Wooldridge ) .
Section III.\#151 ; Methods .
1 .
Of obtaining Venous Congestion .
1 cases this was done by means of a ligature placed round the limb of a dog , + \gt ; experiments are divided into two classes .
Tne first and largest class is those \gt ; h a simple piece of indiarubber tubing was tied round the limb and included loral artery .
The second class is those in which a piece of tubing was tied the limb excluding the femoral artery , which was raised from its bed in ordei le ligature might be passed beneath it .
When the artery is included in the e the blood-pressure is diminished on the distal side , by the friction to which iod is exposed in the constricted portion : this is avoided by exclusion of the but the advantage so gained is probably counterbalanced by the interference he flow that the necessary stretching of the artery over the ligature occasions , iction in the first class too , is in most cases not great , for the blood flows ap- ; ly with undiminished force from a cut artery on the distal side of the ligature , lis reason , and also because as little injury as possible was necessary in view of nvesti gat ions , the artery was as a rule included in the ligature , nevertheless ras always taken that the pulse was perceptible in the lower part of the limb , i- ligature of this description insufficient to obliterate the pulse below that is rated .
in the subsequent figures and text as " Medium Ligature .
2 .
Of measuring the 'pressure in the Femoral Vein .
is was done directly and indirectly .
For the direct measurement a vein was ohnson , ' Proc. Roy .
Med. and Chir .
Soc. , Lond. , ' 3rd series , vol. 4 , p. 115 ( Discussion on a Paper , .
Howship Dickinson , " On Renal Dropsy " ) . .
./ .
Doga were the animals used throughout the whole investigation , except in sub-section 8 , on e. 'd of estimating the absorption of fluid by muscle after stimulation .
Frogs were here used , thetie was either ether or ACE mixture : in no case was curare administered .
782 DR. W. S. LAZARUS-BARLOW ON THE PATHOLOGY OP laid bare close to its " embouchement " into the femoral vein .
Into this inferior a cannula was tied which was connected with a mercury manometer .
From the t ness of the walls of the veins it is quite easy to invaginate the small vein and ^ the end of the cannula beyond the valve at the entrance into the femoral vein , an estimate the pressure from that vein directly ; when the pressure had been registied the cannula was withdrawn from the femoral vein into the small vein , the valve aim closed the entrance and the flow went on in the main trunk without the present* 0f any foreign body .
This method is much easier of performance and much less op to objection than the use of a T-shaped cannula inserted into the main vein .
Ther^as then placed round the limb an elastic ligature the tightness of which was regnted as was thought fit .
When sufficient pressure had been produced in the vein , as sWi by the manometer , the ligature was made fast and the only precaution necessary to take the pressure from the main vein as above shown from time to time .
The indirect method was by means of a piece of intestinal tube , which , afteiprc-paration by drying , removal of fat and soaking in glycerine and water , was tl at each end on the two arms of a T-piece .
This formed a ring which could be mc\lt ; e tc press with varying degree of force upon the limb , by filling it more or less with ir oi some other fluid .
The upright of the T-piece was connected with a manometei I was found however after repeated trial that the difficulties in the employment othi method were very great .
In the first place the pressure inside the gut requiredo b high , and very frequently caused rupture , and in the second place\#151 ; apartfroi leakage\#151 ; the pressure in the veins registered by the manometer diminished .
, ppa rently this was due to the fact that the ligature expelled the blood and lymplfroi the superficial parts of the limb , which therefore yielded and consequently dimiishe the pressure on the limb .
This method was given up therefore and an elastic htui with direct measurement of the venous blood-pressure was adoped as the usual ntlio of procedure .
The actual blood-pressure was only measured in a certain numer i cases , in which it was necessary .
In the greater number of the experiment ti ligature was regulated to such a degree of tightness as would correspond to abut I or 30 millims. of venous pressure .
In these cases it was more important tht tl arterial flow should not be stopped than that the venous obstruction should great , and therefore the pulse , as above stated , was taken as a guide .
Iou| pressure , however , was always applied to make saphenous vein tense .
3 .
Of obtaining evidence as to Increased Transudation from the Blood-vests , Inasmuch as the evidence of oedema given by eyesight , measurement , and |ttil on pressure , are not sufficiently trustworthy , and in the case of a small amon oedema may be completely overlooked , numerical values obtained from observe on the specific gravity of the blood , of the blood-plasma , of muscle and ot skn \#171 ; taken as the evidence of oedema .
The specific gravity of the blood was THE oedema which accompanies PASSIVE CONGESTION .
783 lethod and arterial and venous blood were considered separately , the respective p blood being taken from an artery and from one of its venae comites .
The gravity of the blood-plasma , also taken separately in the case of the artery and ein , was obtained after the addition of potassium oxalate and centrifugalising .
n amount of oxalate solution of known specific gravity being added in each \amp ; true specific gravity of the plasma was* a simple matter of calculation , specific gravity of muscle was arrived at in the following way :\#151 ; isele being exposed , a piece , about l centim. square , was removed with the ; possible rapidity and the least possible injury .
This piece was placed on per to remove any traces of blood or serum and the remaining part of the on was done by a modification of Roy 's method for obtaining the specific of the blood which was suggested to me by Professor Roy himself .
Small i of the piece of muscle removed were gently dropped into solutions of different gravity previously arranged in tubes on the table .
That fluid in which the muscle neither floated nor sank was taken as the correct one , and a perfectly ece of an , as yet , untouched part of the same muscle was taken and used as a The method is simple , and gives good results after a little practice , but there sral points concerning its employment to which attention must be paid , e first place , the muscle must not be roughly handled , and the time occupied investigation must be as short as possible , for the changes undergone by dying may possibly , # and drying from exposure to air will certainly , introduce serious It is for this reason that a fresh piece has always been taken from some part muscle at a distance from the original injury , in order to control the first This , the second point of importance , takes but a small fraction of the time ry for the first determination .
Thirdly , it is necessary to pay attention only first few seconds after the immersion of the piece of muscle ; it so rapidly i glycerine ( with which the solutions are made up ) that it invariably sinks he lapse of a very short time , even though it may have floated at first , ly , no bubbles of air must be allowed to remain in contact with the piece of when it is immersed in the solution , as they infallibly vitiate the result* They letimes a source of great annoyance ; I have found it best to take portions cut long axis of the muscle , as the air-bubbles attach themselves principally to the ms verse surfaces , and consequently the smaller this is the better may this ity be avoided .
In connection with this point , it must also be added that the 5-sheath should be cleared away as well as possible before removal of the piece sole from the body : the air-bubbles are particularly prone to become entangled 1 ^asc^a\lt ; The use of boiled solutions has also been tried , and this obviates the ly to some extent .
Lastly , for purposes of comparison , corresponding muscles evaporation be prevented the specific gravity of muscle rises about three degrees during the first \gt ; ur after removal from the body , i.e. , during death ; the specific gravity undergoes no further ^tion during the subsequent twenty-four hours .
Sept. 29 , 1894 .
CCCXCIV.--B .
5 H DR. W. S. LAZARtTS-BARLOW ON THE PATHOLOGY OP must be used in each limb , as there is frequently a considerable differ gravity among the various muscles of a limb .
Estimation of the specific gravity in the case of the skin is a much more diflk operation than in the case of muscle .
In the first place , the skin of the \q % animals must be shaved , and there is always a possibility that some of the supe^ layers of the epidermis , which are the most compressed and therefore have !
le highest specific gravity , may be removed on one side and not on the other .
Secohy in one specimen a larger amount of the loose sub-epidermal fibrous tissue mate taken up in the piece for examination .
Thirdly , the difficulty arising from k. bubbles is much greater than in the case of muscle .
Consequently , though he greatest pains have been taken to obtain accurate results , I regard the spefic gravities of the muscle in the subsequent account of my experiments as more ndy correct than those for the skin .
Inasmuch , however , as corresponding parts oijjif limbs were used in all cases , the numbers obtained for the skin are fairly capah oi comparison among themselves .
4 .
Of obtaining Evidence as to the Amount of Lymph Secreted .
ence in speci .
This was done by measuring the quantity that flowed from an opened lympati vessel in a known time .
The saphenous vein having been dissected out andth lymphatics that run in its sheath being laid bare , a cannula was tied into ce c them , and all the others that were visible were securely ligatured .
The lim wa kept in a state of rest during the observations , but immediately before the id \lt ; each observation it was raised and rapidly and firmly pressed from the paw upird so as to expel any fluid that might be in the lymph channels .
They were thu le : empty at the very beginning and the very end of an observation , so that the aoui of lymph collected represented as accurately as possible the amount secr.fi Inasmuch , however , as the general tendency for the lymph is to find out fcrtss anastomotic channels , after an experiment has lasted for some houis , the finil are always below the mark .
If , therefore , the amount registered at the experiment be equal to that registered at the beginning , it is certain that the ^ amount secreted at the end must have exceeded the amount secreted at the sg1 ing .
This is a point which must always be borne in mind when consieri investigations into the amount of a lymph secretidn .
The period of time observation was one hour , unless anything to the contrary be expressly said .
tion is absolutely comparable with the secretion of saliva js not^proven^an , j incompatible with such a view , purely \lt ; 4 mechanical .
" The -word is to be taken only in the sense of being differ\#174 ; THE ( EDEMA WHICH ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
785 5 .
Haemostasis .
term will be frequently used in the following pages , and it refers to a condition imb obtained in the following way .
A piece of india-rubber tubing was tied round the limb , as high up as possible , in order to stop completely not only ous but also the arterial flow through the limb .
The limb was subjected in to previous treatment and was simply cut off from the rest of the circulation latever blood it might contain for a certain period of time .
As a rule , to jut few exceptions were made , this period was one hour .
At the end of that e " haemostatic " ligature was removed and the limb was again put into eon-with the general circulation .
In some cases after haemostasis the pressure to he vessels was subjected was that exerted by the otherwise unaltered circula-i others the venous pressure was raised by means of a " medium ligature,5 ' as id in Sub-section 1 of this section .
On no occasion was the blood in the limb ed found to have coagulated .
6 .
Anaemia .
term in the following pages will be used in two senses , either as comparative , or as absolute anaemia .
The context will easily show which of the two is in any individual case .
Absolute anaemia was obtained by bandaging the limb the paw upwards as tightly as possible .
Over this bandage , which was an y linen one , an Esmarch 's elastic bandage was tightly wound and was firmly .
above , so that no blood could possibly enter the limb .
The period during the limb was thus kept anaemic was from two-and-a-half to three hours .
After noval of the bandages the limb was either left untouched or the venous e was raised by a " medium ligature , " as was necessary in the case of any ual experiment .
It is obvious that by this method not only is the limb 3d absolutely anaemic , but also during the process of bandaging much of the is driven out of it .
7 .
Of 'performing Ranvier 's Experiment .
only difference instituted was that the inferior vena cava was tied through an n in the abdomen , instead of from behind , as was Ranvier 's practice .
One however , was regarded as essential .
The ligature of the inferior vena cava and ction of the sciatic nerve on one side , were carried out as nearly simultaneously ssible .
The ligature was passed beneath the vessel in readiness for tying , and erve was dissected out and a director passed beneath it , and , when both these the experiment had been done , the ligature was drawn tight and the nerve ed , the two operations not taking together more than a few seconds .
Ranvier Wo indication as to his actual method of procedure in his original paper , but it 5 H % is imperatively necessary that no long interval of time should take place between two operations .
In fact , the general absence of any information as to time is \ evident throughout the whole literature of oedema .
And yet , in pbysiolo^i matters , time cannot be neglected ; in fact , during a neglected period , some ev^ may have taken place\#151 ; and , indeed , in the case of oedema they can be shown to place\#151 ; which afford the key-note of the whole question , while , if time be ignored ^ conclusions derived from otherwise accurately observed facts are extremely like t be erroneous in whole or in part .
8 .
Of estimating the Absorption of Fluid by Muscle after Stimulation .
This was also done by the specific gravity method , to which reference has abach been made .
The two gastrocnemii of a frog were taken with a length of ary , attached .
Immediately after removal from the body , they were slightly dri\lt ; \#171 ; filter paper and placed under oil .
One muscle was then stimulated by an interred current of increasing strength , until the strongest current produced a barely pesepi ible contraction .
Both muscles were taken out from the oil simultaneously , te o rapidly removed with blotting paper , and were then placed in normal saline soldo ] After a varying period , they were again simultaneously removed from the ilk solution , rapidly dried , and the specific gravities taken in the ordinary way .
E taking portions from the muscles alternately , the differences from drying , \amp ; c , wei made as nearly constant as possible , while there was no danger of comparing difret parts of the muscles , such , for example , as a piece taken from the belly of one ith piece taken from near the tendon of the other .
As has already been shown by a reference to the literature of passive ceden , t , general tendency is to explain it upon purely mechanical grounds .
If this exlan tion be true , it is obvious that increased exudation must follow " immediately increase of venous pressure .
It is not sufficient to find after a varying bu lo period , reckoned by hours , that there is an increase of exudation .
Upon a mecuw explanation , the exudation ought to appear in the tissues without any interval 1 the determination of this point experiments were done , and they had references 1 following questions , viz.:\#151 ; j* M a. Does an increase in the specific gravity of the blood as a whole , and* plasma , coincident with a diminution in specific gravity of the muscle and of t \#174 ; occur immediately after the blood-pressure in the veins has been raised ?
* b. Is an increase in venous pressure accompanied by a corresponding inCJ*$ the amount of lymph flow per unit of time ?
* It must be remembered that veins also obstructed the flow of discussed in Section V. the method used for increasing the venous pressure in lymph .
The effect of an obstruction to the flow of MJ latter question was obviously necessary , even though the former might be .ed in the negative , since it was quite possible that any excess of exudation , I of showing itself by any modifications in specific gravity in the blood , muscle , ight be carried off by the lymphatic vessels , an increased rate of flow acting in \gt ; ensatory manner .
; e two questions will now be considered in detail .
dtion IV._The Effect of Increase of Venous Pressure in a Lumb .
1 .
On the General Blood-pressure .
ond an initial fall which accompanies , or very soon follows upon the application ligature used to increase the venous pressure , and which is very constant , the on the aortic blood-pressure are somewhat uncertain .
The mercury in the letter usually recovers its former position in a few minutes after the application ligature , but then its tendency is to fall again .
The excursions are not , er , great , rarely exceeding 10 millims. of mercury .
2 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial .
he venous pressure in a dog 's hind limb , which is usually less than 5 millims. of ry , be raised to a considerable degree , care being taken that it be not raised bin some sensible difference from the pressure in the femoral artery , the flow of through the limb is impeded , but not completely stopped .
Under such con-ls , the mechanical explanation of oedema requiring that fluid should pass out of Lood-vessels which is of lower specific gravity than the blood , the blood of the m , as a whole , must of necessity be raised .
Experiment shows that this is not y means the case .
Thus the venous pressure was raised in various experiments -75 millims. of mercury , the pressure in the carotid being over 100 millims. of ury in each case .
In some cases the specific gravity of the blood as a whole ined absolutely constant , in others , a very small rise or fall occurred , sufficiently l , however , to come almost within the range of experimental error .
It must be remembered that apart from any interference the specific gravity of the blood rise or fall slightly .
Had a small rise been constant , it would have been signifi-as showing that the constant drain from the vessels was able to raise the specific rity of the whole blood in the body to a certain small extent , but inasmuch as a 11 fall is as common as a rise , this explanation cannot hold good .
_ therefore conclude that increase of the venous pressure in a limb for one hour in any way affect the specific gravity of the arterial blood of the body as a whole .
3 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial Blood-plasma .
Partly because the normal specific gravity of the plasma is so much lower ti that of the blood as a whole and differs but little from the specific gravity of lymph , and partly because the plasma forms so considerable a portion of the vol of the blood , variations in the specific gravity of the plasma are rarely so consider e as those of the blood as a whole .
Inasmuch as the specific gravity of the pla^ could only be taken conveniently after the addition of potassium oxalate and ce\#187 ; i fugalising , and as its estimation involved several operations which need some nicy the liability to experimental error was greater than in the case of the blood , hi much , however , as the rise or fall in any individual case was less than *5 ' , ancin most cases the specific gravity remained absolutely constant , I conclude that enormous increase of venous pressure in a limb for one hour has no influence upoihe specific gravity of the arterial blood-plasma .
4 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Venous Blood .
It is obvious that the conditions in the case of the venous blood are wish different from those in the case of the arterial blood .
The quality of the bod reaching the two limbs , whether obstructed or not , must be the same .
In ict , since the blood that enters the femoral artery on either side is , to all mints and purposes , the same as when it was mixed in the aorta , the arterial blood has hi the necessary purposes , always been taken from the side on which no experiment was being done .
The object of this was to interfere as little as possible withifchc blood-supply of the limb that was specially under observation .
In the case oftlie veins , however , the case is very different .
In the limb in which the venous retin w impeded , the blood remains for a longer time than it does in its fellow , and heie the tissues requiring their nutriment , whether there be obstruction to the bloodies or no^-each volume of the blood on the obstructed side has to give up a l g\#171 ; portion of the contents of its plasma than is the case on the unobstructed side 11 is , therefore , only to be expected that the effect of increase of venous pressure0 * limb should vary according to whether the obstructed area or parts other that ^ obstructed area , are considered .
In the former case the alterations are very not exceeding 1 ' in specific gravity .
The alteration too may be either in direct\#169 ; ^ a rise or of a fall .
In the latter case a rise in specific gravity invariably takes in some experiments amounting to over 6 .
It follows , therefore , that increase of venous pressure in a limb for one ^ in its effect upon the specific gravity of the venous blood according as obstructed area , or parts other than the obstructed area , are under consideration .
J the former case there is invariably a rise in specific gravity ; in the latter specific gravity remains unaltered , the oedema which ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
789 5 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Venous Blood-plasma .
same remarks which have been made in Sub-section 4 , as to the difference the effect of an increase of the venous pressure in a limb upon the venous that limb , and the venous blood in other parts , also holds good in the case of aous blood-plasma ; the venous blood-plasma of the system , as a whole , remains at in specific gravity , that of the obstructed limb rises in some cases as much The rise in specific gravity of the plasma of venous blood proves that the watery r the plasma has been chiefly removed during the passage through the limb , jcurs in the normal state , so that the blood does not lose plasma as such during sage from an artery to a vein , but something less than plasma .
At the first this rise suggests that , since water has left the plasma , the limb must have become itous .
Such , however , is not necessarily the case , and , in fact , the constancy of isma in other parts of the body shows that the total amount that left the i for the supply of the needs of the tissue was not excessive though each volume 3ma in the veins of the obstructed part , owing to its prolonged sojourn in the ost a larger quantity of water than an equal volume in any other part where journ was shorter.* nclude , therefore , that the effect of increase of venous pressure in a limb for one is to raise the specific gravity of the venous blood-plasma in the limb itself but as the venous blood-plasma of other parts is , it is without effect .
6 .
On the Specific Gravity of Voluntary Muscle .
smuch as any fluid which passes out of the blood vessels must present itself , at ate for a time , in the muscles as part of the tissues surrounding the blood-vessels , ace was sought here as to the effect of venous pressure in a limb .
As it was isable to injure the limb which was destined afterwards to bear the ligature , the ninary estimation of the specific gravity of the muscle was always made upon ontrol limb .
It was assumed\#151 ; and previous investigations had warranted the aption\#151 ; that the specific gravity of corresponding muscles in the normal state is ical on the two sides .
At the end of the experiment the specific gravity ol aer as yet untouched portion of the same muscle upon the unligatured limb was a , while this was compared with the corresponding muscle upon the ligatured \gt ; Not only , therefore , was it determined whether the muscle on the ligatured underwent an alteration in specific gravity , but also whether the muscle of rt other than the ligatured limb underwent alteration .
In all cases where the ific gravity of muscle is being taken , the divergence or parallelism of the In some experiments the specific gravity of the whole blood fell , though that of the plasma rose j hers , the converse took place .
This suggests that the amount of .water in the blood-corpuscles 58 Under different circumstances , and within fairly wide limits , for the number of blood-corpuscles jot vary to any very important extent during the period of the experiment .
lines drawn from the common starting point is of much greater importance R any consideration from data given by one side alone .
If , for example , the muscle * the ligatured side he found at the end of an experiment of lower specific grant th that which obtained in the muscle of the unligatured side , we might assume that t ' muscle on the ligatured side had taken up water as the result of increased veno pressure ; but if on examination we find that the muscle on the unligatured side V also fallen in specific gravity , we are certain that the access of water on the ligatuH side is not due intrinsically to the increased venous pressure .
All experiments on this point show clearly that an increase of venous pressure unaccompanied by any change in the specific gravity of the muscle , either in | ligatured or in the unligatured limb .
That an access of fluid does cause a diminum of the specific gravity of the muscle , and vice , will be shown in a kr section .
I therefore conclude that increase of venous pressure in a limb for one hour hem effect upon the specif cgravity of muscle either in the limb itself or in parts other im the limb .
7 .
On the Specific Gravity of Skin .
The curve given by the initial and final specific gravity of skin is absoluiy identical with that of muscle , excepting as regards the 'actual figures , and thesere sometimes higher , sometimes lower than that of muscle .
The remarks made ven dealing with muscle concerning the essential importance of divergence or parallelan , and the comparative unimportance of actual numbers , are equally true in the cas of skin .
That the specific gravity of skin is an indication of the amount of water wlch it holds , and that it may vary considerably will he shown in a later section , i. is here sufficient to state as my conclusion that increase of venous pressure in a limlfor one hour has no effect upon the specific gravity of the skin , either of that limb i oj other parts .
8 .
On the amount of Lymph-flow .
If a cannula be inserted into one of the lymphatic vessels of the hind limb f a dog and all other lymphatics be ligatured , the amount of lymph collected givespbe amount secreted under normal conditions .
If the amount thus collected for a ceiaw length of time ( in the actual experiments , one hour ) be registered , and th\#187 ; s " medium " ligature be applied above the part investigated , and the amount of under these altered conditions be again collected for the same length of turn aI indication is given of the effect of an increase in venous pressure on the lymph-m* This was done , and it was seen that the amount secreted with an increase of W\gt ; u* pressure was either identical with or slightly less than the amount secreted whent* venous pressure was normal : in no case was it greater .
It was evident , that the increase of venous pressure had no after-effects upon the lymph-flow , a the oedema which accompanies PASSIVE CONGESTION .
791 \#166 ; collected during the hour after removal of the " medium " ligature was , in all he same as that collected during the hour previous to its application .
conclusion to which I am led , therefore , is that an increase in venous 'pressure in for one hour is not accompanied by an increase in the amount of lymph-flow , On the Circumference of the Limb and its Appearance as concerns ( Edema .
ng the actual period when the ligature is around the limb the blood-vessels sually full of blood , and hence the circumference of the limb , measured over ed line a little above the paw , is greater than that of its fellow measured in responding position .
To draw a fair comparison , it is necessary first to remove ature , and allow the limb to empty itself of its excessive amount of blood , kes but a very few seconds , and if now the limb be measured it is found to be tly the same circumferential size as at the beginning of the experiment .
As the ordinary appearances of oedema are concerned , they are completely ref ore conclude that an increase of venous pressure in a limb for one hour is not l either by an increase of circumference of the limb or by any of the ordinary ances of oedema .
pion V.\#151 ; The Effects of Obstruction to the Lymph-flow in a Limb .
much as the elastic ligature which was used to produce venous obstruction in periments described in Section IV , was placed round the whole limb , it is s that the lymphatic vessels , together with other parts , were placed under the onditions as the veins .
Though , therefore , the pressure in the lymphatics was \gt ; asured , as it was in the case of the veins , there can be no doubt that there was ction to the lymph-flow .
Indeed , in several instances this was seen by the eye to be the case , as , on dissection , they were found to be dilated , sometimes i to the size of a crow-quill .
The results given in Section IY .
are consequently if increase of " lymphatic " pressure be substituted for increase of " venous ire .
lerefore conclude that increase of lymphatic pressure in a limb for one hour is ompanied by any alteration in the specific gravity of the blood or blood-plasma , -al 0Md venous , of muscle or of shin , and also that it does not lead to any alteration ' circumference of the limb or any of the ordinary appearances of .
t is necessary again to draw attention to the fact that the conclusions stated are true only for the L during which the increase in venous pressure lasted , viz. , one hour .
Such an increase in venous lre as was experimentally produced could obviously not exist for an indefinite period without ucing some modification other than venous obstruction .
PCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. 5 I Section VI.\#151 ; The Effect of Venous Obstruction in conjunction with Lymphatic Obstruction in a Limb .
It follows as a corollary to Sections IV .
and V. that increase of venous pressur conjunction with increase of lymphatic pressure in a limb for one , is unacc\lt ; panied by any alteration in the specific gravity of the blood or art , ] and venous , of muscle or of skin , and also that the two together do not lead to alteration in the circumference of the limb or any of the ordinary appearance^ ' oedema .
It is a matter of some interest to know for how long a period a condition of increied venous pressure may be kept up without the occurrence of oedema .
The experimits referred to in this paragraph were carried out in a much more rough manner ar-those detailed above , nevertheless they throw some light on the question .
Afraid and myself placed elastic bands around one of our arms below the bend of the and of sufficient tightness to cause distension of the veins on the backs of our hods , but not sufficient to stop the radial pulse .
The pressure required was somenat great , and I was obliged to remove my ligature at the end of three hours , as the pressure on my ulnar nerve caused considerable pain .
My friend , however , confined to wear it for twenty hours from its first adjustment , though after the first four \m he loosened it slightly .
In neither case was the slightest trace of oedema to beeer in the hand , * while the only place where oedema was visible was immediately Mos the ligature in my friend 's arm for a distance of one inch downwards .
In experimtf on dogs no oedema was visible in the paw , in one case after the ligature had eer applied for seven and a half hours , in a second for seven hours , in a third also for ivei hours , and in a fourth for six and a half hours , though in all these cases there is ; small amount of oedema in the neighbourhood of the ligature .
I afterwards found n ; VulpianI speaks of the same appearance " first of all in the thigh , later in the fw\#171 ; part of the limb .
" An additional point of interest which showed itself in the experiments on dogwa that a certain amount of oedema almost invariably appeared on the proximal the ligature .
The amount was never as great as that on the distal side , but iw\lt ; very evident , and pitted deeply on pressure .
Reference to this fact will he \#187 ; a later .
It is sufficient here to state that careful dissection showed that the parts flov the ligature did not drain into a vein which opened into the main trunk on the is-side of the ligature , and hence that the oedematous parts above the ligature wei n\lt ; the seat of venous obstruction .
* In my friend 's Land there was perhaps a doubtful trace , hut it disappeared a few minute** removal of the elastic ligature .
f Vui , PiAN , * Lemons sir l'Appareil yaso-moteur , ' Paris , 1875 , vol. 2 , p. 592 , THE CEDEMA WHICH ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
793 ion VII.__The Effect of Section of the Sciatic Nerve in a Limb .
\gt ; ason of the great importance attached by Ranvier to section of the sciatic pon the occurrence of oedema , it was necessary also to investigate this point , cific gravity of the muscles was the chief , though not the only subject of con-m .
but , inasmuch as to repeat the results obtained would be to needlessly i this paper , these subsidiary points will not be touched upon , it being L that the specific gravity of the muscles is a sufficient indication as to \#166 ; fluid has passed from the blood-vessels .
1 .
On the Specific Gravity of Muscle .
a dog , the inferior vena cava be completely obstructed , and at the same e sciatic nerve be cut on one side , the side on which the nerve was cut was y Ranvier to become oedematous , while the limb in which the nerve was left lid not become oedematous .
The explanation given by Ranvier of his results it oedema was dependent in some way upon vaso-motor action .
Subsequently , r , he modified his view by regarding the vaso-motor action as being indirect acting through the medium of the arterial dilatation which follows upon section nerve .
The question of time , so far as can be determined from the writings mentioned , has not been taken into consideration .
In my experiments the i gravity of the muscle was taken as being more trustworthy evidence of oedema lere eyesight .
curves given by the muscles of the two sides are , as far as can be expected , al in shape , their parallelism being only slightly modified at the end of the meant .
Even here all that is shown by the curves is that the muscles of the rib are slightly in advance of the other .
Thus about 6 hours after the comment of the experiment the muscle on the side on which the nerve was cut a specific gravity , while the muscle of the side on which the nerve was left does not rise until an hour later .
It is possible that this is by reason of the al dilatation in the former limb which , in normal cases , is accompanied by more metabolism .
This , however , comes under the later effects of section of the 3 nerve .
With these we are not now concerned , it is sufficient for the present ichide that section of the sciatic nerve has no immediate effect upon the specific tie of the muscles supplied by that nerve .
will be well here to summarize the facts that have already been obtained , as they form a basis for the latter portion of the paper .
e propositions that commenced Section IW , were , that on the assumption of the lie mechanical causation of passive oedema , the exudation must show itself by ms modifications in specific gravity , and further , that if increased exudation 5 i 2 ?
94 DR. W. S. LA5^ ARtJS-fiARLOW Otf THE PATHOLOGY O occurred , but were not to be recognized in the tissues , it would be explained b increased rapidity in the flow of lymph per unit of time .
It has been shown by experiment , that increase of venous pressure in a limb h up to a very high point for an hour , does not cause any modification of the spec* .
gravity of the blood , or the blood-plasma of the system as a whole , either arteria ' venous ; that it does not cause any modification in the specific gravity of the mus\lt ; g or skin either in the body as a whole , or in the limb in which there is increased ven pressure .
In the second place it has been shown that increase of venous pressure not accompanied by a corresponding increase in the rapidity of the lymph-flow .
M propositions , therefore , have been answered in the negative .
It was next shown that section of a nerve has no influence upon the specific gra|v of muscles supplied by it , : this is contrary to what should occur upon Ranvier 's \ !
W of the exudation as being the result of increased tension .
The explanation of passive oedema as a purely mechanical phenomenon , duty increased rapidity of filtration through the walls of the blood-vessels , is thereforeiot borne out by experiment .
Reference has already shortly been made to the fact that a ligature placed a a dog 's limb often causes oedema to appear not only on the distal but also onthc proximal side of the ligature .
In itself , this is a powerful argument againsttht influence of venous congestion as a direct cause , since the parts on the two sick o the ligature are obviously in very different conditions , so far as concerns Venn congestion .
Section VIII.\#151 ; The Effect of Haemostasis in a Limb .
So far as the specific gravity of the arterial blood and blood-plasma , the veoa blood and blood-plasma , muscle , and skin of parts other than the affected lim are concerned , the effects of haemostasis are practically nil .
It has no effect , moreover , poi the specific gravity of the muscle or skin of the affected limb , but it occasions a re i the specific gra vity of the blood and blood-plasma , and the blood becomes intest'l dark in colour .
The flow of lymph ' is much diminished in quantity but in* completely stopped .
The blood-pressure in the carotid undergoes a small risevit the application of the haemostatic ligature , which is , however , of very brief dunioi On removal of the ligature , the blood-pressure suddenly falls but rapidly recovei ii normal height .
Jj The changes induced by haemostasis are consequently those entirely depeder upon a stagnant condition of blood , and only show themselves in that stagnant i and the fluid ( lymph ) which is normally derived from the blood .
It , howe produces some profound modifications in the tissues of the affected limb which ^ Unrecognizable by any alteration in specific gravity but which show themselvesi ^ the haemostatic ligature has been removed , in the mannei given in detai following sections .
ITO CEiDEMA WHICH ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
795 before conclude that hcemostasis in a limb Jot one hour has no effect upon the , gravity of the arterial blood or blood-pla , the venous blood or blood-i ( except in the affected limb ) , or of the muscle or shin .
It causes , however , its existence a diminution in the flow of lymph from the affected limb .
N jx._The Effect of Increase of Venous Pressure on a Limb after Haemostasis .
as just been stated that haemostasis does not cause any alteration in the ; gravity of the muscle or skin either in the limb affected by it or in the \gt ; onding limb .
Bearing in mind the general association of an increase in ; pressure with the occurrence of passive oedema , the effect of this condition 3 considered after haemostasis , a means whereby a powerful modification of the on of the limb can be brought about .
The experiments which will be described are , in the main , those which had been introduced after the effect of venous tion alone had been determined .
The advantage of this method is that the l had been under observation for some little time and , therefore , that any cations which showod themselves upon an increase of venous pressure after stasis were known with certainty not to have shown themselves before that cation was introduced .
1 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial Blood .
" medium " ligature be placed round the limb of a dog in which haemostasis has d for an hour , the curve given is a very different one to that which occurs with sed venous pressure before haemostasis .
Then there was no modification of the ic gravity , now the specific gravity rises with almost invariable certainty .
In during the whole series of experiments of this kind only one example was of a fall , the explanation of which , however , I am not able to give .
This rise icific gravity of the blood is not due to the anaesthetic , for Roy and Cobbett , # eir work on " Collapse , " have shown that an anaesthetic , such as chloroform or , though its use be prolonged for several hours , does not cause any alteration m ipecific gravity of the blood .
It is obviously due to the abstraction of water , ?
h certainly not pure water as such , and , as will be seen hereafter , that water is 1 in the limb which is under investigation as oedematous fluid .
The rises shown curves are great , and inasmuch as the fluid leaves the blood-vessels after tostasis to a greater degree than before only in the affected limb , the rise in the ific gravity of the blood is a good indication of the amount of oedema .
Thus , in experiment the rise was only one of two degrees , whereas in another it was one* even degrees .
It is obvious , therefore , that the amount of fluid which left the * Roy and Cobbett .
" On the Pathology of Collapse .
" Being published . ?
96 t\gt ; R. W. S. LAZARUS-BARLOW Otf THE PATHOLOGY OP blood-vessels to become oedema-fluid in the latter case was greater in proportion t the total mass of blood in the animal than it was in the former .
It does not course , follow that the amount of recognizable oedema is proportionate exactly to'tl rise in specific gravity of the blood , though as a rule such is the case .
Where tl lymphatics are patent , for example , the fluid drains away and hence the oedema-flu is not recognizable as " oedema .
" Nevertheless , the rise in specific gravity oft ] blood is a certain indication of the amount of fluid that has passed through ti vessel-walls in the affected part .
1 therefore conclude that after hcemostasis increase of venous pressure leads to 4 increase in the amount of exudation through the blood-vessel walls of the affected as shown by a rise in the specific gravity of the arterial blood of the system as a wh\#187 ; , 2 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial Blood-plasma .
The general rule is that the arterial blood-plasma rises in specific gravity , butiis not uncommon for a fall to occur .
Moreover , though it is generally true that a risen the specific gravity of the blood-plasma goes hand in hand with a rise in the spedc gravity of the blood , a fall in specific gravity of the blood-plasma does not , by ay means , so generally accompany a fall in the specific gravity of the blood .
It as already been said that a fall in specific gravity of the blood is very uncommon as no result of an increase of venous pressure after haemostasis , but as regards the bkl-plasma , a fall occurs in a notable percentage of cases .
This can either mean that be corpuscles lose water , or that fluid leaves the blood-vessels of higher specific gra'-ty than the plasma .
My conclusions upon this point are , therefore , as follows .
As the result ojan increase of venous pressure in a limb , after hcemostasis , the specific gravity arterial blood-plasma generally rises , but a certain number of cases it falls , in of a rise in the specific gravity of the blood itself In these cases we must assume tai the blood-corpuscles give up a portion of their water to the plasma , or the blood-vessels in the affected limb of higher specific gravity than the blood-plasm 3 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Venous Blood .
Inasmuch as the length of time during which a given volume of blood reman , w the limb which is subject to an increase of venous pressure , is greater than that dm which an equal volume remains in an unobstructed limb , it is reasonable to esec that in the former case the changes produced , and amongst them those i _ ^ .
the specific gravity of the blood , should be greater than in the latter case .
clearly shown to be so by the curves given by experiments , and in this respec ^ differ only in degree from those given in Section IV .
, Paragraph 4 .
I e vr nevertheless , is greater after haemostasis than it is before , which means the oedema which accompanies PASSIVE CONGESTION .
797 1 o\#163 ; \#163 ; u-q leaving the blood-vessels of lower specific gravity than the blood is v per unit of time than it is before haemostasis .
The main difference , however , n the effect of an increase of venous pressure on the specific gravity of the i blood is shown by the venous blood of the system as a whole . .
Whereas haemostasis it remained constant , after haemostasis it rises with almost invari-ertainty .
Usually it keeps its normal superiority in specific gravity over the in the corresponding artery , but this is not always the case .
Frequently the nee at the end of an experiment ls less than it was at the beginning , and in a tses the specific gravity of the venous blood ends by being lower than that of -erial blood .
Inasmuch as the blood used in these experiments is taken directly he artery or vein , as the case may be , the possibility of a chance admixture of is obviated .
The only explanations possible are that in these cases the body hole is abstracting from the blood not so much water as some of the solid ments of the plasma , for there is no reason to suppose that the specific gravity vein is lowered by reason of any alteration in the mass of the corpuscles , or he corpuscles themselves are taking up water , or , thirdly , that the tissues as a are supplying water to the blood to , meet the drain which it has to expect in 'ected limb , and that to an excess .
It will be seen hereafter that the tissues of st of the body do throw water into the circulation to meet an excessive exuda-1 the affected limb , and though they cannot do so in sufficient quantity , as a iO obviate the rise in specific gravity of the blood , arterial as well as venous , it bable that in some cases they may more than meet the demand , with the lesult he specific gravity of the venous blood of the whole system actually sinks .
For eason I regard the last given as the most probable explanation of what is ibtedly a fact , though not one commonly observed .
A rise in the specific :y of the venous blood in the affected limb is invariable .
herefore conclude that the influence of an increase of venous pressure in a limb haemostasis is to raise the specif c gravity of the venous blood in that and to ater degree than before haemostasis , and also , as a rule , to raise the tie of the venous blood in the system at large , though this is not always the case , specif c gravity , moreover , of the venous blood in the body as a whole sometimes to approximate to the specif c gravity of the arterial blood in the body as a whole .
4 .
On the Specif cGravity of the Venous Blood-plasma .
3 in the case of the venous blood , so here the difference between the alteiation pecifie gravity before and after haemostasis , so far as concerns the affected \gt ; is one of degree and not of kind .
But , in the system as a whole , there is urked difference in the changes in specific gravity of the arterial and of the venous* 'd-plasma .
It was shown that the arterial blood-plasma generally rises in specific dty after haemostasis , but a rise is uncommon in the case of the venous blood- plasma , and even if it occur it is small , whereas the general tendency is for it ^ ^ 1 It will be observed that a regular gradation shows itself ; the arterial blood ah invariably rises in specific gravity , the arterial blood-plasma generally rises { venous blood , as a rule , rises , but shows a tendency to lose its normal superiorit specific gravity over the arterial blood and to approximate to it , the venous bloc plasma generally falls .
A reason for this will be given wThen we come to consider t changes induced in muscle and skin , for the present it is sufficient to note the fact I therefore conclude that the effect of an increase of venous pressure in a limb ajr haemostasis is to raise the specific gravity of the blood-plasma of the limb ) anc a greater degree than before hcemostasis .
As far as the venous blood-plasma of the g of the body is concerned , there is a general , though not quite invariable , tendency w increase of venous pressure in a limb after hcemostasis to cause a lowering gravity .
5 .
On the Specific Gravity of Muscle .
The effects of an increase in venous pressure after haemostasis show themselvein the muscle of the limb which has been the subject of haemostasis , but also in o:ier parts of the body .
In the limb itself the specific gravity of the muscle invariably falls , and as a ale the fall is sufficiently great to be quite out of the range of experimental error .
In the corresponding muscle of the other limb , as a general rule there is a rig in specific gravity , though this is not always the case , for the specific gravity may sre remain constant .
The rise on this , the unaffected side , never appears to be replied by a fall , that is to say , the identity of the specific gravity of corresponding mules on the two sides after haemostasis no longer remains , but the lines connecting vaniu pairs of observations always diverge .
So far as curves themselves go that are mds up of observations on different muscles ( though corresponding muscles be usedoi each pair of observations ) at the beginning and at the end of the experiment , 5 is possible that a fall may be observed in the curve given by junction of the firstinc final results on the unligatured side , though this fall is not so great as idh case of the ligatured side .
A divergence therefore exists , but it is impossbi to state more as a conclusion than that the specific gravity of the muscle onth ligatured side has fallen .
No information concerning the unligatured limb is thereby .
In certain experiments , therefore , one muscle was used throughout .
I * Sartorius was chosen on account of its length of muscular fibre and its geera absence of tendon , and also of its accessibility .
With care , it is possible to fe*e very large portion of the muscle uninjured , and covered by its overlying ti#\#171 ; From this portion further observations may be taken without great danger osau , error being introduced .
In a large dog , in this way , half-a-dozen or more obs tions may be taken from the same muscle on each side , and thus truly eompaifcn curves may be obtained .
As the result of such a method of investigation , it I\#174 ; that not only does the muscle on the affected side fall , but also that the mup c the oedema which accompanies PASSIVE CONGESTION .
799 affected side rises in specific gravity .
This rise is not necessarily equal to the the affected side , and probably it is , as a rule , not so great ; though , on this I have not sufficient data to speak with safety .
Upon the analogy of the however , it seems reasonable to expect that such will be proved to be the case .
conclusions , therefore , are that an increase in venous 'pressure in a limb after asis causes not only a fall in the specific gravity of the muscle the affected ut also a rise in the specific gravity of the muscles of the body as a 6 .
On the Specific Gravity of Skin .
changes undergone by the skin are similar in kind to those undergone by Here it is definitely seen that the rise on the unaffected side is not so great fall in the corresponding skin of the affected side .
irefore conclude that an increase of venous pressure a limb after hcemostasis a fall in the specific gravity of the skin on the affected side , and that it also a rise in specific gravity of the skin on the unaffected , but that this rise is great as the fall in the affected limb .
7 .
On the Amount of Lymph-flow per Unit of Time .
Fig. i. Cubic CentimcTtts .
1-0_________ l0\#153 ; # Jfo jfafM Median Mzdfi Jded^ MdJ ?
No MuV ?
Lig !
Ugf Lig- Lig* Lige-pm .
pm .
pm .
pm .
pm .
p.m. p.m. pm .
pm .
pm .
lime '(\#163 ; 3436 7 6 9 10 irves stowing the influence of the venous pressure in a limb after haemostasis on the amount of lymph-flow per unit of time .
^ was left untouched between 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. ; in B it was applied at 5 p.m. and " he curves are not meant to indicate any degrees of venous pressure bay on norma pressur , ra ely great obstruction , and complete obstruction .
frceexciv.\#151 ; b. 5 k DK .
W. S. LAZ AKUS-BARLO W Otf THU PATHOLOGY OP The amount of lymph-flow per unit of time is a very valuable indication of amount of fluid that leaves the blood-vessels ; and in that it is continuously observation during the whole of the experiment , whereas observations upon specific gravity of muscle and skin are more or less disjointed , it shows more read the real effect of an increase of venous pressure .
The curves given above show conclusively that the amount of lymph-flow at haemostasis increases with an increase of venous pressure , but they show also tit directly that increase of venous pressure is removed , the amount of lymph-fw diminishes .
During haemostasis only does the amount of lymph-flow apparently^ in a contrary manner , but since in haemostasis the whole of the blood-supply to limb is temporarily cut off , haemostasis can hardly be regarded as coming underm category of an increase of venous pressure , though it is granted that the blood inhe limb under haemostatic conditions becomes excessively venous in character .
The point that needs elucidation is in curve A. It will be noticed that betw*n 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. there is a considerable fall in the amount secreted , whereas the on dition of venous pressure remains unaltered .
It was noted at the time of the exfi .
meant that there was during this hour a sudden and rapid onset of oedema with ping on pressure to " fully the depth of a quarter of an inch over the front of the g. ! !
This point is of some importance , as it shows that a condition of lymphatic obstruion is not essential to the occurrence of oedema .
In this experiment , on the other bid the lymphatic vessel was patent with the definite object of collecting the lyEph while the normal assistance given to the lymph-flow by muscular movement roughly imitated by the rapid squeezing of the paw from below upwards , whit , a already mentioned in Section III .
, was an essential portion of my method of colleoinj the lymph .
The importance of this part of the observation lies in the fact ths it tendency is completely to negative Cohnheim 's assumption that oedema is tb result of diminished absorption .
" I therefore conclude that , after haemostasis , the effect of an increase of men jpressure in a limb is to increase the amount of lymph-flow per unit of , that increase of the amount of lymphflow gives place to a diminution as soon venous pressure in the limb is allowed to return to normal .
A subsidiary conclusion is the following t\#151 ; ( Edema may show itself in a with full patency of the lymphatic vessels , and consequently a free exit for thelytp'1 ' THE ( EDEMA WHICH ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
, * Amount of Lymph-flow in a Limb in which the Sciatic Nerve has been , during and after Complete Ligature of the Inferior Vena Cava .
Fig. 2 .
prrt .
p.m. p.m. p.m. pm .
pm pm .
Time1\#153 ; ?*1 Lowing the amount of lymph-flow per unit of time in a limb in which the sciatic nerve has been cut , during and after ligature of .
the inferior vena cava ( Ranvier 's experiment ) , da experiment there was one hour between the section of the nerve and the ligature of the vena cava .
The ligature on the inferior vena cava , moreover , was of such a kind that it could ed and retied at pleasure .
It is obvious that the severed condition of the sciatic nerve was the it condition throughout the experiment .
3 curve given above shows , in the first place , that the immediate effect of section e sciatic nerve is a sudden fall in the amount of lymph-flow .
Ligature of the or vena cava increases this amount somewhat , though it does not allow it to L the normal outflow .
The conditions that are represented by Banvier 's experi- ' are consequently seen to be accompanied by a diminution in the amount of h-flow , which is contrary to what would be expected upon Banvier s explana of oedema .
With the removal of the ligature from the inferior vena cava , the )h-flow is again diminished , to be again increased on readjustment of the complete ur on the inferior vena cava .
More effective in increasing the amount of lymph is a medium ligature on the thigh , as is seen by the rise of the curve after 5 p.m. 7 p.m. his series of experiments has been placed here rather than under Section VIL The diminution in the amount of lymph , being contrary to expectation , coagulation m the cannula always carefully excluded as a possible cause .
because the results are more those depending upon variations of venous V after a modification has been introduced ( complete ligature of the inferior ve for two periods of an hour each ) which probably is nearly akin to haemostasis n flow of venous hlood from the limb being almost entirely stopped , since the anas6 moses cannot be very numerous between the inferior and superior venae cavae \#166 ; supply of arterial blood must rapidly diminish and come to almost a standstill r[4 the two conditions are not quite the same is shown by the increase in the amount lymph-flow caused by ligature of the inferior vena cava , whereas haemostasis accompanied by a diminution .
Both , however , agree in that , while they exist Q. amount of lymph-flow is very considerably below the normal .
The conclusions to be drawn from the curve given above are firstly , that of the sciatic nerve is followed by a diminution in the outflow of lymph , and that after ligature of the inferior vena , the lymph-flow in a limb , which , he sciatic has been cut , varies in quantity with the pressure in the veins , being when the pressure is increased , and diminishing when the pressure in the veins to normal* 9 .
On the Circumference of the Limb and its Appearance as regards ( Edema After haemostasis the limb becomes larger as the result of an increase in veous pressure ; the increase in size , moreover , is considerable .
Frequently the limb athi end of the experiment had increased in circumference by a quarter .
This , howrer , is not the greatest increase that has been met with in the course of these exeri ments .
In one case the limb increased in circumference by more than one-half , t it probable that the results obtained on the unaffected side are not absolutely corset With perfect measurement it is reasonable to suppose that the limb instes .
o : remaining of constant size , as was practically found to be the case , would sbw small diminution in circumference .
It is by reason of the general rise in speifir gravity that takes place in the muscles and skin on this side that such is thougt t\lt ; be probable .
This point , however , is* of much less importance than the other , that there is a considerable and unmistakable increase in circumference of the mil that has undergone haemostasis .
In all cases , the measurement of the aflectediml was taken immediately after the venous congestion had been relieved by remod e the ligature .
The actual appearance of the limb is that met with in typical oedema .
Theikil pits on pressure , the natural depressions on each side of the tendo achillis bemi* filled up , and the lower part of the limb becomes more or less cylindrical .
The shows itself first , and to the greatest extent , in the paw and the lower part o tb limb , in contra-distinction to those cases in which , as the result of a simple h\amp ; -ul * Though the amount of lymph-flow varies dire with the venous pressure , there is no evideei the above curve that it varies proportionately with the venous pressure .
the oedema which ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
803 has been applied for some considerable time , it shows itself in the neighbour-f the ligature first , if not alone .
In fact , the appearance is in every respect .able to the oedema which occurs in the lower extremities of persons suffering irdiac disease .
oscopically the fibrous tissue which lies beneath the cutis vera is found to be ed while the normal interspaces between the meshes are widely distended , the preparation have been made by previously boiling ( Posner 's method ) the sfore cutting sections , the interspaces are found to contain a coagulated aous material .
The fibrous tissue between the muscular bundles is similarly [ ed , and the actual bundles are further apart from one another than is the case )rmal muscle .
There is an indication that the muscular elements themselves o some modification , as they are found to take up picro-carmine more readily Le muscular elements of the other limb , in the case of a frog whose limb has endered oedematous by a ligature , and into whose circulation a solution of irmine is subsequently injected .
This part of the subject ha3 , however , not \#166 ; n worked out fully .
ref ore conclude that the effect of an increase of venous pressure in a limb after asis is to increase the circumference of the , and that this increase in -ence takes place first and to the greatest degree the distal portion of the limb .
.oscopically the tissues which have thus increased in size show that this increase to a distension of their fibrous supporting meshwork by an albuminous fluid , are also indications that the muscular elements an oedematous limb undergo wdification in nature .
ummarise the results observed as the effect of an increase of venous pressure in after haemostasis , we have , be affected limb , a rise in specific gravity of the arterial blood and blood-plasma , b rise in the specific gravity of the venous blood and blood-plasma , a fall in the s gravity of the muscle and skin , an increase in the lymph-flow , an increase circumference of the limb , and , lastly , the general appearances of oedema ; he unaffected limb , which may be taken as more or less completely representing ist of the body , there is a rise in the specific gravity of the arterial blood and .plasma , a rise , but less marked than that of the arterial blood , or sometimes a fall , in the specific gravity of the venous blood , a fall in the specific gravity of -nous blood-plasma , and a rise in the specific gravity of the muscle and skin .
on X.\#151 ; The Effect of Active Congestion in a Limb after Haemostasis .
is unnecessary to give the results of active congestion after haemostasis , in detail , iey differ , with the exceptions noted below , in degree only from those obtaining r conditions of increased venous pressure after haemostasis , and these have already fully described .
The notable differences are those which concern the arterial blood-plasma and certain changes in the limb itself .
The latter may be sho disposed of in the present paragraph , but the changes in specific gravity 0f arterial blood-plasma are sufficiently marked and unexpected to warrant ti consideration in a separate sub-section .
The differences to be observed in the lij which is the subject of active congestion are , firstly , that it becomes marki warmer than its fellow , whereas , when it is the subject of increased venous pres^e it is as a rule colder , and secondly , the enormous rise that takes place in the spefk gravity of the venous blood and blood-plasma of the limb in which there is incre^l venous pressure , is no longer found .
The specific gravity of the venous blood-pla^ it is true , is slightly higher than it is in the unaffected limb , but there is no'app ; ept difference to be made out between the specific gravity of the blood taken from vei ; on the two sides .
The modifications in the case of active congestion after haemostasis are smaller nan in that of increased venous pressure after haemostasis .
This is no doubt becausthe disturbing cause is not completely removed when a ligature is applied in dei to raise the venous pressure .
I therefore conclude that the effects of active congestion in a limb after are , in the main , similar in hind to those occurring ivith an increase of mom \lt ; pressure in a limb after hcemostasis , though they are smaller in degree .
Impctan differences , however , are to be found in the affected limb where there is an abseie o that extreme rise in specific gravity of the venous blood and blood-plasma ivhich in a limb in which the venous pressure is increased , and also the substitute o a raised temperature in the case of active congestion for the lowered which occurs along with an increase of venous pressure .
1 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial , The result is not what might be expected , seeing that the specific gravity * th whole blood rises , for the arterial blood-plasma constantly falls in specific gravit is difficult to see in what way these two facts may be reconciled , unless it be tit tl corpuscles give up water to the plasma , although the blood loses water as a who .
is , of course , obvious that the removal of water which occurs in the affected liib h to be met , and this supply of excessively watery plasma to the limb is such a ay meeting it .
It is possible , however , that the fall in specific gravity may be dueto I excessive amount of lymph poured into the vascular system from the afledffedh !
The specimen of blood taken from the femoral artery , though it would have suftred removal of water in the lungs , would not as yet have been subjected to te I greater removal of water in the kidneys .
For this purpose it would have to pa^o times through the heart instead of the twice which it has accomplished when reiov* for observation .
- , .
Whatever the explanation , the fact remains clear that active congestion m after hcemostasis causes a fall in the specific gravity of the arterial blood-plasm THfi ( EDEMA WHICS ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
805 ition XI.__The Effects of Prolonged Complete Anemia of a Limb .
effects of prolonged complete anaemia of a limb are considerable , and very it from what would be expected from a consideration of the effects of haemo-It is necessary to know them in order to judge of the after-effects of active :ion and increase of venous pressure , but the actual information given is of e importance , not so much from the point of view of oedema , as from that of onditions with which we are not now immediately concerned .
1 .
On the General Blood-pressure .
r than an initial rise on the application of the bandage that produces the te anaemia , and a fall on the removal of the bandage , both of which are and of short duration ( the blood-pressure returning to normal in two or three ; s ) , the effects of prolonged complete anaemia are not evident in any modification general blood-pressure .
erefore conclude that the effects of prolonged complete anaemia of a limb upon leral blood-pressure are confined to a rise on the application and a fall on the il of the bandage producing the anaemia , both of which are small and of short m. 2 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial .
i a dog a limb be rendered completely anaemic , the effect upon the specific \#166 ; f of the arterial blood is very marked .
During the first hour there is a rapid \gt ; nsiderable rise in specific gravity , but after that time the rise becomes less md the blood becomes constant in specific gravity , but at a higher level than r commencement of the anaemic period .
This course of events is not quite able , for the specific gravity of the arterial blood in some cases may remain ; hout the anaemic period the same as it was before the bandage was applied , aowever , obtains only in a small minority of cases .
ierefore conclude that the effect of prolonged complete ancemia of a limb on the e gravity of the arterial blood is to produce at first a rapid and considerable nd that the blood remains constant at this new level so long as the conditions vmia remain unaltered .
3 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial Blood-plasma .
6 arterial blood-plasma rises in specific gravity during complete anaemia or a The rise is not necessarily great , but no exceptions have been found to the that a rise occurs .
therefore conclude that complete ancemia in a limb leads to a rise in the specific 'f the arterial blood-plasma .
4 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Venous Blood .
The changes that occur in the specific gravity of the venous blood are in the ^ direction as those for the arterial blood .
As a rule , however , at the latter na t complete anaemia , lasting three hours , the specific gravity of the venous blood appi- ; mates to that of the arterial blood , and , therefore , tends to lose the superiority it normally has .
In a minority of cases the specific gravity of the venous bloocat the end of the experiment has increased its primary superiority over the arty blood .
From the greater difficulty , however , of obtaining the venous blood witkit clotting , owing to its slower flow , I have not a sufficient number of trustwouy observations between the initial and final observations taken during complete anseiia and hence my conclusions only refer to the final effects .
From the point of vie of an investigation on oedema these are sufficient , but it is evident that they ust properly be supplemented by intermediate observations if the effect of anaemia an\#171 ; be the main subject of investigation .
My conclusions , therefore , are that prolonged complete of a limb haafor its final effect an increase in the specific gravity of the venous blood , and that tkujl the specific gravity of the venous blood tends to lose its normal superiority over ha of the arterial blood , in a minority of cases it actually increases that superiority .
5 , On the Specific Gravity of the Venous Blood-plasma .
Here also a rise in specific gravity takes place , but it is not so great as in theas of the arterial blood-plasma .
6 .
On the Specific Gravity of Muscle .
Complete anaemia of a limb induces a fall in the specific gravity of the muscle i. th other limb .
This fall begins immediately upon the application of the bandage cash anaemia , and is most marked during the first portion of the anaemic period .
In on ) cases the specific gravity continues to fall slightly for a short time after remod \lt ; the Esmarch 's bandage , in the majority it reaches its limit of fall before the reiov\lt ; of the bandage , and maintains that lower level.* I therefore conclude that complete ancemia of a limb causes a fall gravity of the muscle of the opposite limb , that that fall principally takes place t it first portion of the anaemic period , and that when it has reached its lower fait remains constant during the rest of the ancemic period .
* The specific gravity of the muscle in the anaemic limb was not taken , as it was necessary in subsequent investigations to injure it as little as possible .
Inasmuch as all blood and , removed from the limb by the very nature of the bandage and its tightness it is presuma muscle was raised in specific gravity .
the ( EDEMA WHICH ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
807 urn up the changes that occur in prolonged complete anaemia , they are princi-rise in the specific gravity of the arterial blood , which occurs chiefly in the \gt ; rtion of the anaemic period , and a fall in the specific gravity of the muscles , also chiefly occurs in the first portion of the anaemic period .
When these sached their respective limits they tend to remain constant , and so create a sition of equilibrium for the body .
The changes that are found in the blood ' of artery and vein and in the venous blood are subservient to these two great 3 .
he purpose of our investigation , therefore , the new levels obtained at the end anaemic period must be regarded as the starting points for comparison with 3sults produced by other modifying circumstances introduced .
It must be jered , however , that the results obtained are not simply those obtained from iig nutriment to a starved tissue ; but , inasmuch as it has been seen that an 3 of volume of blood circulating in the body ( that removed from the limb the process of applying the Esmarch 's bandage ) produces certain changes in gravity , it must be assumed that allowing the circulation again to flow i the anaemic limb ( which practically amounts to decreasing the amount of diich was circulating in the body ) must also not be without its effect.* Section XII.\#151 ; The Effect of Active Congestion in a Limb after Prolonged Complete Anaemia .
-ccordance with the well-recognized physiological law that active congestion i upon anaemia of a part , it was found , in the experiments which are to be d below , that the temperature of the limb rose when the ligatures and jes were removed .
At the same time it became manifestly swollen and the tion was evidently more rapid through it than through its fellow .
1 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial Blood .
active congestion which follows on complete anaemia of a limb of a dog , kept three hours , has apparently no effect upon the specific gravity of the arterial is obvious from the results obtained above that the volume of blood circulating in the body is latter of so little importance as was formerly supposed .
It was usually taught that the veins , rticularly the veins of the splanchnic area , could accommodate a large iucrease of blood or othei This occurred without any permanent rise in the general blood-pressure .
So far as the general pressure is concerned this teaching is no doubt true , but the other part of the doctrine , so far as us the veins , must evidently be modified by the additional statement that the muscles take up a lrge proportion of any extra amount of fluid that may be in circulation .
The part played by the 3 hus evidently been under-estimated , if not entirely ignored .
[ A communication on this subject uade by the author to the Physiological Society , May 12 , 1894 , and is to be found in the eedings of that Society.\#151 ; September 29 , 1894 .
] XJCCXCIV\#151 ; B , 5 L % blood .
Occasionally , however , a small rise is seen , but it is in no way com with the rise that occurs in the corresponding condition after haemostasis .
I therefore conclude that active congestion in a limb after lengthened ancemia has little or no effect upon the specific gravity of the arterial blood .
2 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial Blood-plasma .
The effect of active congestion after anaemia upon the specific gravity of ^ arterial blood-plasma is very marked .
A rapid fall takes place , the chief pa ; which occurs immediately upon the establishing of the active congestion .
Tl$ similar to what obtains in the case of active congestion after haemostasis .
It i U far the most marked event that occurs during active congestion in parts other nai the affected limb .
With reference to its effect upon the arterial blood-plasma I therefore concludtfa active congestion in a limb after prolonged complete ancemia leads to a rapUan marked fall in the specific gravity .
3 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Venous Blood .
The venous blood behaves much in the same way as under the correspond !
n ; coi ditions after haemostasis , and hence it is unnecessary to repeat the remarks made ler It may be shortly stated that the tendency is for the specific gravity of the \noi blood to approximate towards that of the arterial blood .
4 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Venous Blood-plasma .
The specific gravity of the venous blood-plasma during active congestionaft lengthened complete anaemia , falls , as is the case with the arterial blood-plasma , In the case of both the venous blood and blood-plasma , though it is probab ] th differences exist between the specific gravity on the two sides , such difference ha been found insufficient for detection .
\#166 ; ;* 5 .
On the Specific Gravity of Muscle .
The only change of importance occurs in the affected limb .
Here the muscle rhi by expression of blood and lymph , is during the anaemic period of higher gravity than its fellow on the opposite limb , for the first portion of the time INf congestion , remains of higher specific gravity , and may continue to do so for hour .
It soon , however , falls to the specific gravity of the muscle in the limb , but does not , - as a rule , fall much below .
The specific gravity of the the other limb apparently remains constant .
^ .Mil I therefore conclude that , as the result of active congestion after prolonged of ancemia the specific gravity of the muscle on the affected side falls until it is ||j^p the oedema WHICH ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
809 \tly lower than , that of the muscle on the unaffected side .
The muscle of the ted side undergoes no apparent alteration in specific gravity .
6 .
On the Circumference of the Limb .
ng the period of anaemia of smaller circumference than the unaffected limb the stively congested limb becomes of greater circumference .
But this excess is ally due to the increased amount of blood in the limb , and not\#151 ; as in the similar on after haemostasis\#151 ; to the occurrence of oedema .
Within a very short time , an .
less\gt ; it measures no more than it did at the commencement of the experiment , .
lie , there are to be observed none of the ordinary coarse signs of oedema .
im up , the changes that are brought about by active congestion in a limb that sn kept devoid of blood for a lengthened period are not marked , with the single on of the blood-plasma .
In the case of this fluid there is a very definite fall in i gravity .
The amount of oedema is small and transitory .
on XIII.\#151 ; The Effect of an Increase of Venous Pressure in a Limb THAT HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO LENGTHENED COMPLETE ANAEMIA .
effects of an increase of venous pressure in a limb that has been subject to ened complete anaemia are , so far as concerns the specific gravity of the blood , \amp ; c. , in all respects , save in degree , similar to those which occur after hsemo In all the experiments done upon this branch of the subject the differences in c gravity induced were less than those after haemostasis .
herefore , we compare the effects of haemostasis and of complete anaemia upon eduction of those changes , which make up ( t oedema , " it is seen that haemostasis far the more potent agent , and further that it produces a greater amount of a than anaemia , even if it be allowed to act for only one-third of the time .
The ice that anaemia leads to oedema is not large , and consists principally in a sum-a of small changes , with the sole exception of the change that occurs in the lerable fall in the specific gravity of the arterial and venous blood-plasma .
This mce between the action of haemostasis and anaemia is quite analogous to what 3 in the case of patients .
It is a matter of common observation that passive ta accompanies conditions in which the interference is with the return of venous .
Nevertheless , it is well known that in some cases of ligature of the main 7 'f a limb\#151 ; e.g. , the femoral artery , for popliteal aneurism\#151 ; the leg and foot times become oedematous .
This is by no means always the case , and it is ded by surgeons with uneasiness .
The fact , however , remains that passive Qa is met with under both conditions , namely , that of venous congestion and that isemia from interference with the arterial supply* The observations made in the ' 'laments which have formed the foregoing sections are therefore in complete accord 1 'hnical experience .
5 l 2 Section XIY.\#151 ; The Absorption op Water by Muscle , as the Result of Stimulation of the Nerve .
If the gastrocnemius of a frog be isolated with a portion of its nerve , and that no e be stimulated by the interrupted current as long as contractions are produced V maximum current , it will be found , if the muscle be not removed from the body m the stimulated muscle is several degrees lower in specific gravity than the corresp^ ing muscle on the other side .
A more accurate method has already been giveiin Section III .
On removing the stimulated muscle and its control , and placing them for the sue length of time in normal saline solution , it is found that the stimulated mule without exception , is of lower specific gravity than the control .
However njch water , therefore , the unstimulated muscle may have absorbed , the stimulated mtcb has absorbed more .
In the following table are given the results of three such experiments .
Table Showing the Fall in Specific Gravity of Muscle as the result of Stimulate Sp. gr. of gastrocnemius .
Unstimulated side .
Sp. gr. of gastrocnemius .
Stimulated side .
Length of time immersion in noral saline solution Frog 1 . . . . .
L062 1058 minutes .
3 Frog 2 . .
1063 1060 15 Frog 3 - .
1065 .
1057 30 The absorption of salt solution begins immediately after the immersion , al i evidently not completed for some considerable time .
It must be rememberediha the stimulated muscle was still capable of contraction in the experiments tyfie above , and inasmuch as the same result is to be observed in a muscle which ha nc been removed from the body , it is reasonable to conclude that the process deserild ' a normal one .
The absorption of water and consequent diminution of specific gwb of the muscle in the frog 's body , without doubt , goes on at the same time a tfi exercise of function .
In the experiment under oil it cannot do so until the mu e placed in the saline solution .
f / therefore conclude that under normal conditions prolonged contraction is followed by an absorption of water which leads to a fall in specific graving muscle as compared with the specific gravity of the corresponding muscle , kept m similar conditions , but at rest . ?
HE ( fil)EMA WHICH ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
811 jjry_^fWFj Effect of Active Congestion in a Limb after the Perstence in situ of the Waste-products of Functional Activity of its ctscle .
1 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial Blood .
a dog , a limb be rendered anaemic in the usual way , and the sciatic nerve be ted immediately after complete anaemia has been produced , the functional r 0f the muscles , which , however , cannot show itself well on account of the ss of the bandage , leads to the formation of waste-products in the muscles i by that nerve .
By still keeping the limb anaemic for a certain length of es waste-products are kept at the site of their formation .
i removal of the bandage active congestion ensues , which leads to a rise in the gravity of the arterial blood .
This rise begins to occur very soon after removal bandage , and may readily be detected in half-an-hour .
Though constant , it is wever , great j no doubt , because there is every facility afforded to the active ion to do its work .
Nevertheless a rise of two or three degrees in specific , which is very uncommon in the case ' of active congestion without stimulation aerve , is here the rule.* ref ore conclude that active congestion in a limb , after the persistence in situ of ite-products of functional activity of its , produces a greater rise in the i gravity of the arterial blood than occurs in the similar condition after -complete anaemia without functional activity of muscle .
2 .
On the Specific Gravity of the Arterial Blood-plasma .
change induced is similar but greater than that in the case of active congestion prolonged complete ansemia , viz. , a rapid and marked fall in specific gravity place .
3 .
On the Specific Gravity of Venous Blood .
effects of active congestion after the persistence in situ of the waste-products ctional activity of its muscle upon the specific gravity of the venous blood , differ ling to which limb is under investigation .
In the unaffected limb the specific y of the venous blood becomes identical with , or lower than , that of the arteiial In the affected limb it is higher than that of the arterial blood , in so much i difference of two degrees may obtain between the specific gravity of the blood o two sides .
herefore conclude that active congestion in a limb after the persistence in situ of aste-products of functional activity of its m , , in the venous , to an ' must\gt ; be remembered that " prolonged complete anaemia " was allowed to cover a period of three ' complete anaemia , with functional activity , only one hour .
approximation towards , or a fall below , the specific gravity of the arterial blood unaffected limb be under consideration , but to a rise the affected limb be under sideration .
A difference of two degrees may obtain between the specific gravity of , venous blood on the two sides .
4 .
On the Specific Gravity of Muscle .
The specific gravity of the muscle on the unaffected side rises considerably , as uA as 5 ' having been noticed .
As to what fall takes place in the muscle of the affectedide it is somewhat difficult to speak , because of the lack of information as to the spefic gravity of the muscle when in complete anaemia .
It can only he stated that itnas always been found one or two degrees lower than that of the initial specific grat\ of the muscle on the other side .
I therefore conclude that active congestion in a limb after complete persistence in situ of the waste-products of the functional activity of its muscle ad to a marked and rapid rise in the specific gravity of the muscle on the and to a fall in specific gravity of the muscle on the affected and that these ndi fications are greater than in the case of prolonged complete activity .
5 .
On the Circumference of the Limb .
The effect of persistence in situ of the products of functional activity is also o t seen in an increase in circumference of the limb .
Whereas active congestion ft* prolonged complete anaemia leads to no apparent increase in circumference c tl affected limb , similar conditions , in which functional activity is brought about ad i which the waste-products have been allowed to remain situ for a short in invariably lead to an increase in circumference of the limb .
The increase i n always great , but it is always greater than could be accounted for by expeiimnt error .
Speaking generally , the limb increases by about 6 per cent , of its ordn size in half an hour .
The condition , however , does not go on to the production* !
i amount of oedema that can be recognized beyond question by pitting .
This doubt because of the absence of any condition that could lead to a cumulative Section XVI.\#151 ; Conclusions as to the Pathology of Passive CEdem .
In the first portion of this paper it has been shown by experiments in whia t pressure in the veins and in the lymphatics was raised to a very great degree t increase of venous pressure or of lymphatic pressure , per se , is unable to cause cl\#171 ; or increase of lymph in the tissues , while it followed as the result of the methn which the experiments were performed that venous obstruction combined\#153 ; lymphatic obstruction was equally powerless .
It was further shown that cedem\#153 ; THE ( EDEMA WHICH ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
ven when the lymphatic vessels are patent .
It is therefore necessary to abandon l view that the oedema of passive congestion is of purely mechanical origin , the experiments on oedema which have been given in detail in the foregoing have been accompanied by ansemia .
But by anaemia is not here to be tood lack of blood merely , for it is evident that in venous congestion the actual t of blood in the limb at a given time is greater than normal .
The essential is that the supply of blood , however great it may be , is unequal to the needs tissues .
much , therefore , as it has been shown that oedema follows prolonged complete a and haemostasis , it follows that starvation of the tissues plays an important l the production of oedema .
dier , since the active congestion which , by a well-recognized law in physiology , 5 upon anaemia , is also present after prolonged complete anaemia and haemostatic a , as is seen by the increased temperature of the limb under observation , the nism by which oedema is produced is presumably identical with that which lly leads to active congestion after anaemia .
are , therefore , as concerns the effect of starvation of the tissues , I would suggest le occurrence of oedema is similar in kind , though excessive in degree , to what in the normal physiological condition of the limb .
Though it is not actually l that the amount of lymph that flows from a part which is the subject of 1 active congestion is increased , and therefore the amount of fluid which leaves ood-vessels is increased , such is very probably the case .
In the experimental i described above , the excessive supply of fluid by the blood-vessels does occur , pparently is only to meet the excessive demand which results from the very degree of starvation in which the tissues have been placed by the prolonged olding of blood containing their normal supply of nutrition .
; though starvation of the tissues plays a very important part , there are certain that show that it is not a complete explanation .
has repeatedly shown itself during the foregoing pages that the amount of la-fluid poured out is greater when the limb has been exposed to the action of is blood than when it has simply been deprived of all blood of whichever kind .
Hows , therefore , that however important the part may be that is played by ation of the tissues , that played by the presence of venous blood is more rtant still .
le probability that this action of the venous blood is in some way bound up with large proportionate amount of the products of tissue metabolism is supported by following considerations :\#151 ; In normal physiological conditions , functional activity is accompanied by active $estion .
It has been shown in Section XIV .
, that in the case of muscle , at all events , the reise of function is accompanied by certain modifications which lead to an absorption of water .
Inasmuch as the chief modification with which we are acquaint that is induced by functional activity , is an increase of the amount of tissue wag , products held in the part , it is reasonable to suppose that this access of fluid u some way or other connected with the removal of those waste-products .
Evenn purely mechanical principles the larger the amount of salts held within a dialyser le larger the amount of water that enters it from the outside .
c.We can , however , go further than this , for the experiments in Section XV .
that the effect of persistence of the metabolic waste-products in the part isto increase the amount of oedema .
These considerations give a satisfactory explanation of the facts stated above , : , at haemostatic ansemia is so much more effective as a cause of oedema than count prolonged anaemia , and that an increase of venous pressure after either haemostasis anaemia is more effective than active congestion alone .
The demand of the tissues under these conditions is too great for the bloo : t\lt ; supply it immediately , even with active dilatation , and hence oedema occurs , but-he possibility of its meeting that demand is still less if the active congestion , whkis the utmost that can be done by the vascular system , be hampered by the premo of an increase of venous pressure .
Here , not only is the rapidity of the bloodoi which is so essential a part of active congestion , impeded , but also the amou : c waste-products that can be removed in the blood is diminished , and hence the dean of the tissues , instead of lessening , as it should do , becomes more and more in tive , with the result that the amount that leaves the blood-vessels is increase fc an indefinite period , and consequently the amount of oedema increases .
That a functionally active part does not normally become oedematous litt ordinary sense of the term , though its tend is in that direction , is no doubdi to the fact that the products of tissue change are carried away as soon as fcm and that the accompanying active congestion is fully able to meet the demand l only when they become stored up in greater quantities than normal that they a source of danger to the part , and that the call of the tissues for their removals urgent that the fluid poured out by the blood-vessels accumulates to such an e ei as to constitute oedema . .
jj It is therefore evident that the tissues play a part that has hitherto been unico , * J ^ t h rt .
, v* 11 nf.i a n rtf f 1ATY1U , .
during the course THE ( EDEMA WHICH ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
815 lothelial cells of the smallest vessels in cases in which there was oedema , and 3 in which they were normal ; nevertheless it is certain that some modification ccur It is reasonable to suppose , therefore , that the exudation from the vessels is modified in some as yet imperfectly known manner in quality or in ap events , the chemical properties of the lymph from a normal limb lewhat different from those of lymph from an oedematous limb .
One point , has come out clearly during the course of the previous experiments : it elastic distension of blood-vessels is not the same as the active dilatation which after hsemostasis or anaemia .
r either haemostasis or anaemia the lymph-flow varies directly with the venous .e whereas before they are introduced there is no such dependence upon the pressure .
So far , therefore , the occurrence of oedema may be termed anical , " for the blood-vessels now act more or less like a dead filter or dead an .
Whether this is to be taken as indicating that the vessel walls have j damaged in some as yet unrecognized way , and have largely lost their normal of restraining the outflow of fluid as the result of mere pressure , or whether a condition compatible with a perfectly living active cellular wall , and occurs lie as a part of the phenomena known as " active congestion , " must for the fc be left uncertain.* oedema which accompanies venous congestion may , therefore , be regarded as an excess of the normal physiological process whereby the nutrition of the v and the removal of their waste-products is secured .
Normally the degree of tion and the amount of waste-products stored up in the parts are sufficiently bo be adequately dealt with by active dilatation of the arteries supplying the but if the starvation be so great , or the amount of waste-products stored up be siderable as to be beyond the powers of the circulation ( as soon as the affected s call for an increased blood supply ) , the demand on the part of the tissues still iues , and the excessive amount of fluid poured out by the blood-vessels consti-oedema .
So soon as the demand has been met , the removal of fluid by the laties exceeds the output by the vessels , and therefore the oedema begins to dis-r , but if from some cause , such as occurs in the later stages of cardiac disease , primary cause of the insufficient supply of blood depends upon a central ediable lesion , the demand continues to be greater than the supply , and there-be oedema increases .
Section XVII .
\#151 ; Summary of other Conclusions .
may , perhaps , prove convenient if the chief conclusions , other than that con-*d in Section XVI .
, arrived at in the foregoing pages be restated here .
Since modifications of the venous pressure bring in their train modifications in .the amounts of --products contained in the tissues , by more or less impeding their removal , it is possible that this ublance to " a dead filter or dead membrane " may be more apparent than real .
September 29,1894 .
bCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. 5 M 816 DR. W. S. LAZARUS-BARLOW ON THE PATHOLOGY OP 1 .
Increase of the venous pressure alone , lymphatic pressure alone , or both co bined , in a limb for one hour , has no effect upon the specific gravity of either blood , blood-plasma ( arterial and venous ) of the body as a whole , the muscle or skin of the affected limb or other parts , nor is it accompanied by any increase the amount of lymph-flow .
The venous blood and blood-plasma , however , in p affected limb rise in specific gravity .
2 .
Section of the sciatic nerve has no immediate effect upon the specific gravity muscle .
3 .
Haemostasis in a limb for one hour has no effect upon the specific gravity of hf arterial blood or blood-plasma , the venous blood or blood-plasma ( except in b affected limb ) , or of the muscle or skin .
It causes , however , during its exists a diminution in the flow of lymph from the affected limb .
4 .
As the result of an increase in venous pressure in a limb after haemostasis !
) specific gravity of\#151 ; ? .
The arterial blood of the system as a whole rises . ? .
The arterial blood-plasma generally rises , but in a certain number of ca\amp ; j falls , in spite of a rise in the specific gravity of the blood itself .
c. The venous blood and blood-plasma in that limb rise , and to a greater dm than before haemostasis .
The venous blood of the rest of the body geneill rises , but tends to lose its normal superiority over the arterial blood , fl venous blood-plasma of the rest of the body generally falls .
d. The muscle and , to a less extent , the skin on the affected side fall ; oitl unaffected side they rise .
5 .
The effect of an increase in venous pressure in a limb after haemostasis s increase the amount of lymph-flow , but that increase of the amount of lymplfi gives place to a diminution as soon as the venous pressure in the limb is allow !
return to normal .
6 .
The effect of an increase of venous pressure in a limb after haemostasis s increase the circumference of the limb , and this increase in circumference takes\#187 ; lc first and to the greatest degree in the.distal portion of the limb .
7 .
( Edema may show itself in a limb along with full patency of the lympa vessels , and consequently a free exit for the lymph .
IT 8 .
Section of the sciatic nerve is followed by a diminution in the outflow of 1\#174 ; 9 .
After ligature of the inferior vena cava , the lymph-flow in a limb in which \lt ; sciatic nerve has been cut , varies in quantity with the pressure in the veins , \#187 ; \#171 ; increased when the pressure is increased , and diminishing when the pressure \gt ; veins returns to normal .
J[| 10 .
The effects of active congestion in a limb after haemostasis are , in then* similar in kind to those occurring with an increase of venous pressure in a HIM haemostasis , though they are smaller in degree .
Important differences , howeY\#187 ; to be found in the affected limb , where there is an absence of that extreme ri8*\#187 ; THE ( EDEMA WHICH ACCOMPANIES PASSIVE CONGESTION .
817 * gravity of the venous blood and blood-plasma which occurs in a limb in which ftoiis pressure is increased , and also the substitution of a raised temperature in ie of active congestion for the lowered temperature which occurs along with an 0 of venous pressure .
Active congestion in a limb after haemostasis causes a fall in the specific gravity arterial blood-plasma .
Prolonged complete anaemia of a limb has no effect upon the general blood-.e beyond a rise on the application , and a fall on the removal , of the bandage ing the anaemia , both of which are small and of short duration .
Asa result of prolonged complete anaemia of a limb the specific gravity of\#151 ; The arterial blood rises rapidly and to a considerable degree , and remains constant at this new level so long as the conditions of anaemia remain unaltered .
The arterial blood-plasma and , to a less extent , the venous blood-plasma rise .
The venous blood ends by rising and , though it tends to lose its normal superiority over that of the arterial blood , in a minority of cases it actually increases that superiority .
, The muscle of the opposite limb falls rapidly and remains at this lower limit during the rest of the anaemic period .
Active congestion after anaemia leads to a rapid and marked fall in the specific y of the arterial blood-plasma , a fall in the specific gravity of muscle on the d side , but no apparent change either in the specific gravity of the arterial or the muscle on the unaffected side .
The effects of an increase of venous pressure in a limb that has been subject to ged complete anaemia are , so far as concerns the specific gravity of the blood , e , \amp ; c. , in all respects , save in degree , similar to those which occur after haemo-The differences in specific gravity induced are less than those after haemostasis .
Under normal conditions prolonged contraction of a muscle is followed by an ption of water which leads to a fall in specific gravity of that muscle as compared the specific gravity of the corresponding muscle kept under similar conditions , t rest .
Active congestion in a limb after the persistence situ of the waste-products notional activity of its muscle , produces a greater rise in the specific gravity of arterial blood than occurs in the similar condition after prolonged complete aia without functional activity of muscle . .
Active congestion in a limb after complete anaemia , with persistence in situ of waste-products of the functional activity of its muscle , leads to a marked and 1 rise in the specific gravity of the muscle on the unaffected side and to a fall in ific gravity of the muscle on the affected side , and these modifications are greater 1 in the case of prolonged complete anaemia without functional activity .

