302 Mr. E. Seiranck .
It is certain that this conversion of kreatine into kreatinin does not take place when mercuric chloride is added to the watery extract of flesh\#151 ; 1 .
Because abundance of kreatine is obtained after this treatment , as in portion C. 2 .
Because the kreatinin obtained from flesh differs in properties from the one obtained by action of HgCl2 upon pure kreatine , the gold salt of the former kreatinin being soluble in ether , and decomposed only during evaporation ; whilst the gold salt of the latter is insoluble in ether , but is at once decomposed thereby .
i if- f j- i r ft lit r It Jet \#165 ; l " Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
No. IV .
" By Edward Schunck , F.R.S. Received June 16 , \#151 ; Read 1 June 18 , 1891 .
t Action of Alkalis on Phyllocyanin ( ).\#151 ; In Parts I and III of this memoir I gave an account of the action of aqueous alkalis , , on phyllocyanin , and of the products thereby formed.* By the action of caustic alkali in a state of fusion phyllocyanin undergoes a more | profound decomposition , leading to the formation of several products , | one of which I shall now describe .
When caustic potash lye to which phyllocyanin has been addej is boiled down nearly to dryness a green mass is left which still contains phyllocyanin , for on dissolving a little of it in water , adding an excess of acetic acid , and shaking np with ether , a solution is obtained which shows the spectrum of phyllocyanin .
On heating the green mass to near the point of fusion its colour suddenly changes to brown , and the phyllocyanin is now completely altered .
In order to ensure complete decomposition water is added , and the solution is then- boiled down , and the residual mass again heated to near the point of fusion .
The mass is then dissolved in water , and to the reddish-brown solution there is added an excess of acetic acid , which gives a voluminous brown precipitate .
The whole is now shaken np with ether without any previous filtration .
The ether dissolves a portion of the precipitate , acquiring a red colour , and , having been separated in the usual manner , is slowdy evaporated .
During evaporation the solution deposits a dark-brown mass , which is filtered off and treated with boiling alcohol .
The latter acquires a red colour , j leaving behind a good deal of impurity , which is filtered off .
On \#166 ; adding zinc acetate to the filti'ate a brown precipitate falls , while the j , liquid acquires a bright purple colour .
The latter after filtration is * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 39 , p. 355 , and vol. 44 , pp. 418\#151 ; 454 .
Contributions to the Chemistry Chlorophyll .
305 Derated .
During evaporation it deposits an amorphous red powder , which is filtered off and washed with a little cold alcohol .
This red Wowder is a zinc compound ; when burnt it leaves a residue of zinc oxide .
On being treated with hot alcohol to which a little hydrochloric acid is added the powder dissolves , yielding a crimson solution , which after adding water and shaking up with ether divides into two layers , an upper brown ethereal one and a lower one which is acid and has a bright crimson colour .
The two liquids having been separated , the upper one is found to leave on evaporation a brown amorphous residue , while the lower one , after partial evaporation , gives with water a brown precipitate .
The latter , having been filtered off , is dissolved in boiling alcohol ; the alcoholic solution deposits on stand-ins ; fine lustrous crystalline needles .
The properties of the substance prepared as just described are as follows:\#151 ; In mass it appears plum-coloured , and shows much lustre .
: Under the microscope it is seen to consist of small , regular , prismatic crystals , which are reddish-brown by transmitted light .
Heated on platinum it melts to a brown mass , which on being further heated burns , leaving much charcoal .
When heated in a tube it gives off fumes , but yields no crystalline sublimate .
It is soluble in boiling alcohol and ether , the solution having a red colour inclining to ; crimson .
It is also soluble in chloroform , but insoluble in carbon di-sulphide even on boiling .
It dissolves in glacial acetic acid and in concentrated hydrochloric acid , the solutions exhibiting a fine crimson i ; i colour .
The solutions show well-defined absorption bands , but their if spectra differ interse ; those of the alcoholic and ethereal solutions l are nearly alike , but that of the solution in hydrochloric acid is vei y different .
The spectra are remarkable for the entire absence of bands at the red end , but they need not be further described , as they aie represented on the plate accompanying this paper .
I give no name to this substance , as it may possibly turn out to be .i identical with one or other of the bodies obtained by Hoppe-Seylei .
as products of the action of caustic potash on his chlorophyllan , * one of which he has named " dichromatic acid , " while to another he f| applies the term " phylloporphyrin .
" I may state that the spectium of the hydrochloric acid solution of my substance corresponds exactly J with that of a purple-coloured solution ( containing unfortunately very little substance ) labelled " phylloporphyrin , " which I owe to the kindness of Dr. Schuchardt , of Goerlitz .
The yield of my substance m relation to the quantity of phyllocyanin employed is exceedingly small , as the account of my method of preparing and purifying it would , " p indeed , lead one to conclude .
Large quantities of one or more other substances are formed at the same time , but , being brown , amoiphous , and humus-like , they do not invite examination .
* ' Zeits .
f. Physiol. Chem. , ' vol. 4 , Heft 3 .
Mr. E , Schunck .
This may , I think , be a suitable place for a few remarks on the \#163 ; somewhat altered sense in which I use the terms phyllocyanin and phylloxanthin , names bestowed by Fremy on what he supposed to he constituents of chlorophyll .
In his first memoir on the green colour-ing matter of leaves Fremy* maintained that by acting on chlorophyll * with a mixture of ether and hydrochloric acid he had caused it to ?
split up into two colouring matters , one of which passes into the f acid , imparting to it a bright blue colour , while the other dissolves in f the ether , which it colours yellow , the two together causing by their combined presence the ordinary green colour of leaves and other i organs .
I need not here refer to the fact , sufficiently manifest to any one who has paid attention to the subject , that Fremy was in error in supposing that his two colouring matters pre-existed as such in the cells of plants , and was not aware that they were , in part at least , products of the decomposition of chlorophyll .
I merely wish to remark that the author 's two colouring matters must have been , considering the mode of preparation employed , mixtures of several substances , some of which , so far as we know , are not in any way connected with chlorophyll , using the latter term in the stricter sense as being the substance to which the green colour of leaves , \amp ; c. , is due .
At the same time I think it right to say a few words to justify myself in retaining Fremy 's names , and at the same time applying them in a somewhat different sense .
Returning to Fremy 's first experiment with ether and hydrochloric acid , I think I have proved , by what is stated in the first part of this memoir , that the author 's blue liqilid is in fact a solution in hydrochloric acid of a substance which is a product of decomposition of chlorophyll .
This substance I call phyllocyanin .
It is a weak base , forming with acids unstable compounds of a blue colour , Fremy 's phyllocyanin being in fact such a compound .
It also combines with bases , though not without at the same time undergoing a change , a description of which is contained in the third part of this memoir , f To have given it another name would probably have led to misunderstanding on the part of those not specially conversant with the subject , and to confusion in its terminology .
A similar instance of the retention of name presents itself in the case of the alkaloid berberin .
The berberin of the original discoverer was subsequently found to be the hydrochloride of a base which then retained the name berberin , though not identical with the original substance so called .
In his second memoir^ Fremy takes quite another view of the constitution of chlorophyll .
Having acted on chlorophyll in alcoholic solution with caustic baryta he obtained an insoluble compound , which he called phyllocyanate of baryta , and * ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 50 , p. 405 .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 44 , p. 448 .
\#163 ; 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 61 , p. 188 .
Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll 305 which by decomposition with acid yielded phyllocyanic acid , while his phylloxanthin remained dissolved in the alcoholic liquid , and was left behind on evaporation in yellow or red crystals resembling bichromate of potash .
This process the author considers to be one of saponification , chlorophyll itself being a species of fat , which by the action of bases splits up , the process being described by him as follows:\#151 ; " La chlorophylle , espece partieuliere de corps gras colore , eprouve done par Faction des bases energiques un sort de saponification dont la phylloxanthine , corps neutre jaune , serait la glycerine , et l'acide phyllocyanique serait l'acide gras colore en vert bleuatre .
" The process may , however , be explained in a simpler manner .
On coming into contact with caustic baryta chlorophyll simply combines with the latter forming an insoluble compound , and is again set at liberty by a strong acid , but is at the same time decomposed by the acid yielding phyllocyanin , the so-called phyllocyanic acid being simply identical with the latter .
The properties of his acid , as described by the author , are just those of phyllocyanin in my sense of the term .
It is hardly necessary to refer here to Fremy 's third memoir* in which he endeavours to prove that the colouring matter of leaves is a mixture of phylloxanthin and pliyllocyanate potash , of a conclusion even less probable than those previously arrived at .
As regards Fremy 's phylloxanthin , it is evident that it must , considering the method of preparation employed , have consisted of several more or less yellow substances , some of which may have been present as such in the solution of chlorophyll taken , while others were formed by the action of the hydrochloric acid on the chlorophyll in solution .
In his first memoir Fremy states that his phylloxanthin is , in his opinion , identical with the yellow colouring matter of leaves developed in the dark as well as that of yellow autumnal leaves .
Whether the colour of etiolated and that of faded leaves is due to the same substance , and whether the latter is identical with the yellow colouring matter which always accompanies chlorophyll in healthy gieen leaves is uncertain , but there can be no doubt that the latter , the constant companion of chlorophyll , was present in Fremy 's phylloxanthin solution .
Though still an imperfectly known substance , its general properties have been ascertained , and it is now usually called xanthophyll .
In his second memoir Fremy gives a description of his phylloxanthin , from which it is evident that the substance obtained by his new process was identical with Hartsen 's ehrysophyll and Bougarel 's erythrophyll , a body yielding beautiful red crystals , giving solutions of a deep yellow colour , and apparently present in all green leaves .
This then is the second constituent of Fremy 's phylloxanthin , but there is yet a third , which , though overlooked by that chemist , must have been present along with the two others , at * ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 84 , p. 983 .
Mr. E. Schunck .
least when the process first described , using ether and hydrochloric acid , was employed ; and it is this , following the example of Tschirch that I propose to call phylloxanthin in the stricter sense , inappropriate as the term is in some respects .
Phylloxanthin is a product formed along with phyllocyanin by the action of strong acids on chlorophyll , and is left dissolved in ether when to an ethereal solution of the two concentrated hydrochloric acid is added , the phyllocyanin passing into the acid .
When the process described in the first part of this memoir , the first stage of ' which consists in passing hydrochloric acid gas into an alcoholic extract of leaves , is employed , the xanthophyll , chrysophyll , and any other colouring matter that may be present remain in solution , while the phyllocyanin and phylloxanthin formed by the action of the acid are deposited along with some fatty matter .
Having thus explained the seuse in which the terms phyllocyanin and phylloxanthin are employed in this memoir , I will now proceed to give an account of the mode of preparation and properties of Phylloxanthin .
Although the quantity of this substance formed by the decomposition of chlorophyll with acids is much larger than that of the phyllocyanin accompanying it , its preparation in a state of purity is mach more difficult , and the product even at the best is never free from impurities of a fatty nature .
The olive-green ethereal solution containing phylloxanthin , after being separated from the lower acid one containing phyllocyanin , and shaken up with concentrated hydrochloric acid , so as to remove any of the latter substance that may be present , is left exposed to the air in shallow vessels , so as to allow the greater part of the ether to evaporate , when it leaves a quantity of matter in dark brown cakes floating in an acid liquid .
The latter having been removed , the cakes are washed with water , and then left to drain on paper .
That the mass thus obtained contains , besides colouring matter , a large quantity of fat is evident , for on rubbing a small portion between the fingers it softens , and it melts completely in boiling water .
The fatty matter may , to a great extent , be removed by treating the mixture with concentrated hydrochloric acid , in which the colouring matter after a time dissolves leaving the fatty matter behind ; but the former undergoes a change by this treatment , and is no longer unaltered phylloxanthin , as I shall show further on .
By the action of alkalis , too , a change is effected , so that it is necessary to use other solvents for the purification of phylloxanthin .
For this purpose the crude substance from the ethereal solution is first dissolved in a small quantity of chloroform , and the solution is then mixed with several I f t t f W p 'll ; e t t Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
307 time9 its volume of alcohol and left to stand , when it deposits a great part'of the phylloxanthin , much of the fatty matter herng left in ^The^eposit is then filtered off , washed with alcohol , dried , and dissolved in boiling glacial acetic acid .
This solution on cooling and standing yields a copious deposit of phylloxanthm , which is filtered off and may again be dissolved in boiling glacial acetic ac.d_ The second deposit is filtered off , washed with alcohol , and dissolved in hot ether .
The ethereal solution is then slowly evaporated in beakers .
During evaporation a dark mass is deposited , which after about three-fourths of the ether have evaporated is filtered off and redissolved in ether .
The ethereal solution is evaporated , and the portion which first separates out is filtered off as before .
This process may be repeated several times if it is thought necessary .
The quantity finally obtained after this lengthy process is , of course , relatively small .
Unfortunately , too , it is after all not absolutely pure ; it contains fatty matter , as may be easily ascertained by treating a little of it with moderately strong boiling nitric acid , when the colouring matter is decomposed and dissolved , leaving the fatty matter , which floats about in the boiling liquid in oily drops .
There is no reason , however , to suppose that this contamination with fatty matter interferes with the reactions of the substance , so far at least as its behaviour to various solvents and the colour or changes of colour which it presents are concerned .
The properties of phylloxanthin resemble those of pliyllocyanin so closely as to lead to the conclusion that the two substances must be closely related , that they are perhaps isomeric , and that possibly one of them might be converted into the other by some process still to be discovered .
In the following description , therefore , I shall refer only slightly to those properties which the two substances possess in common .
When prepared in the way above described and then dried phylloxanthin appears dark green , almost black , thus differing from phyllo-cyanin , which always sliows a dark indigo-blue colour .
It is amorphous , even under the microscope , though it may occasionally be obtained by very slow evaporation of its ethereal solution in small rosettes , which are rust-coloured by transmitted light .
When a very minute portion is placed on a glass slide , then moistened with ether under a cover-glass , it is seen to resolve itself under the micioscope into a number of long whip-like filaments and pseudo-crystalline needles , much curved and twisted , which are brown by transmitted light .
Chlorophyllan , according to Hoppe-Seyler , shows the same behaviour under the microscope .
Phylloxanthin is soluble in boiling absolute alcohol , but a gieat part separates out again on the solution cooling as a granular amorphous deposit .
It is more soluble in ether , carbon disulphide , Mr. E. Schunck .
benzol , and aniline than in alcohol ; it also dissolves in ligroin but f the best solvent is chloroform .
These solutions are less distinct ] ^ green , and more brown , than those of phyllocyanin ; they are flU0If 1 escent , and when dilute exhibit a marked reddish tinge , of which K nothing is seen in the case of phyllocyanin .
The ethereal solution shows five bands closely resembling those of phyllocyanin , as regards ' ' both position and relative intensity , with this difference , however"that 1 the first and second bands lie further away from the red end than ' with the latter , while the space between the fourth and fifth bands is so much darkened that when the solution is concentrated the two 1 bands appear as one .
When the ethereal solution is shaken up with P concentrated hydrochloric acid , the latter remains colourless , unless phyllocyanin is present , when it acquires a blue colour .
It would , 5 however , be a mistake to suppose that if , on standing , a blue colora- f tion makes its appearance in the lower liquid , the presence of phyllo-cyanin is indicated , for by the action of hydrochloric acid phylloxanthin E undergoes a change whereby it becomes soluble in the acid , leaving 5 the ether in which it was previously dissolved .
That this is the ease is evident from the fact that the blue coloration commences where the ether and the acid are in contact , and extends from above down- I wards .
Phylloxanthin , like phyllocyanin , may be heated for several hours at 130 ' without undergoing any change , but at 160 ' decomposition commences , and at 180 ' the substance is completely decomposed , I yielding a charred mass , which is entirely insoluble in chloroform .
I When heated on platinum phylloxanthin burns with a luminous i flame yielding a bulky charcoal , which burns away with difficulty , j leaving a little dark-coloured ash ; this ash consists of ferric oxide .
Since all the specimens of phylloxanthin I have prepared leave on burning moie or less ferric oxide , the presence of the latter cannot be altogether accidental .
Those who maintain that iron in some form or other is an essential constituent of chlorophyll may not be surprised at its being found in one of the products of the decomposition of chlorophyll ; but it is difficult to understand why the iron , if originally present , should not have been removed during the treatment with hydrochloric acid and acetic acid to which the product was submitted , and should still be present after repeated solution of the substance in ether .
On adding a little nitric acid to a saturated solution of phylloxanthin m glacial acetic acid the colour of the solution changes to a eep yellow ; the solution deposits nothing on cooling ; it gives with water a brown flocculent precipitate , the filtrate from which is yellow , and shows no absorption bands , while the precipitate after washing dissolves in alcohol , giving a yellow solution which shows absorption bands , and leaves on evaporation a yellow brittle amorph""I i\#187 ; \#165 ; n i ml !
U a :e*i W iJ frt IM \#166 ; \gt ; - 0 cas tef lie* t* fgl :|eii .tres*1 ; m \#187 ; tf A Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
309 ous residue .
Chromic acid acts in a similar manner .
Treated with boiling concentrated nitric acid , phylloxanthin is decomposed , a quantity of yellow semi-fused fatty matter being left behind ; the filtrate leaves on evaporation a crystalline residue , consisting mainly 'fAchloroformic solution of phylloxanthin when exposed to sunlight in a loosely stoppered bottle gradually becomes paler , and at last almost colourless .
No difference in the rapidity of bleaching could be observed when a solution of phyllocyanin of as nearly as possible the same strength was exposed to the action of light along with the solution of phylloxanthin .
The process is doubtless one of slow oxidation under the influence of light .
On adding a little bromine to a chloroformic solution of phylloxanthin the colour of the latter changes to a bright grass-green , resembling that of chlorophyll solutions , but its spectrum differs from that of chlorophyll , as well as from that of phylloxanthin ; it shows one very broad band , extending over a great part of the red and the whole of the orange , with a faint band in the green , and an indication of one nearer the blue , together with much obscuration at the blue end .
The solution leaves on evaporation a little amorphous residue , which is purple by reflected , and dark green by transmitted , light , and contains bromine .
On adding an excess of bromine to a chloroformic solution of phylloxanthin the colour of the solution changes to a deep yellow , but it still shows a band in the red .
On treating phylloxanthin with concentrated hydrochloric acid in the cold no change takes place at first , but after some time a great part of the substance dissolves , yielding a dark greenish-blue solution , while part remains undissolved as a green fatty mass , which may be separated by filtration through asbestos .
The filtrate appears slightly more green than a solution of phyllocyanin in hydrochloric acid , but it shows nearly the same spectrum as the latter , though the bands of which it consists are far less distinct and well marked .
The solution , when shaken up with ether , imparts no colour to the latter , behaving in this respect like a solution of phyllocyanin , which shows that phylloxanthin by treatment with hydrochloric acid undergoes some change .
Nevertheless , when the product of the action is precipitated from the acid solution by water the precipitate , after filtering off and washing , dissolves in ether , yielding a solution which shows the colour and absorption spectrum of a solution of phylloxanthin .
The precipitated product dissolves also in glacial acetic acid boiling , and the solution on cooling deposits a portion which , when filtered off and dried , appears dark blue , like phyllocyanin , and when viewed under the microscope shows the same indistinctly crystalline form as the latter .
In all other respects , however , it gives the same reactions as phylloxanthin , so that it is certain no trans- Mr. E. Scliunck .
formation into phyllocyanin is effected by the action of acid .
The behaviour of phylloxanthin to concentrated sulphuric acid closely resembles that just described .
When cupric acetate is added to a solution of phylloxanthin in boiling glacial acetic acid the solution becomes dark green , and a compound is formed very similar to that which phyllocyanin yields when treated in the same way .
The solution , on cooling and stand-ing , gives a dark-coloured deposit , which , after filtering off and treatment with dilute hydrochloric acid , so as to remove any excess of cupric acetate that may be present , is redissolved in boiling glacial acetic acid .
Prom this solution the compound crystallises out in small scales , which are purple and lustrous by reflected light and pale green by transmitted light .
It closely resembles the corresponding phyllocyanin compound ; its solutions show the same absorption spectrum as those of the latter , though they have less of a blue tint , and appear more green .
When the same experiment is made using zinc acetate instead of cupric acetate no change of colour takes place , and the acetic acid solution on cooling deposits unaltered phylloxanthin ; in this respect the two substances show a marked difference , since phyllocyanin yields a double compound with zinc and acetic acid , as described in Part I of this memoir .
When ferrous oxide and argentic oxide are employed along with phyiloxanthin and acetic acid compounds are formed similar to those yielded by phyllocyanin , but their properties are not of sufficient interest to merit detailed description .
Towards lead acetate phylloxanthin , like phyllocyanin , behaves with complete indifference .
When metallic tin is added to a solution of phylloxanthin in concentrated hydrochloric acid the phenomena are similar to those observed in the case of phyllocyanin .
After standing some time the bright bluish-green colour of the solution changes to olive , and it now gives with -water a brown precipitate .
On allowing the hydrochloric acid solution to stand in contact with metallic tin for some time longer , it becomes red , and now gives with water a red floccu-lent precipitate , which on being filtered off and washed turns brown , and then dissolves in alcohol with a brown colour ; the alcoholic solution shows only a faint band in the green , but on the addition of a little caustic alkali it turns yellow , and now shows three bands , which are not , however , very distinct .
Phylloxanthin does not dissolve readily in aqueous alkali , but it does so with ease when alcoholic potash or soda is employed .
When treated with boiling alcohol to which a little alcoholic potash is added phylloxanthin dissolves at once and entirely , yielding a red solution , which on continuing to boil turns green .
On standing for some time the solution gives a dark-coloured deposit , which is filtered off , washed with alcohol , and dissolved in water .
The watery K n K \#187 ; J Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
311 solution gives with acid a greenish-brown precipitate , which is filtered off and dissolved in a little boiling glacial acetic acid .
The solution on being left to stand for some days yields a deposit , which is filtered off , washed with a little alcohol , and dried .
This product corresponds to the phyllotaonin obtained by the action of alkalis on phyllocyanin , but its properties , though similar , are less characteristic .
When dry it appears almost black and amorphous ; under the microscope , however , it is seen to consist in part of prismatic crystals .
It is soluble in alcohol , ether , chloroform , and glacial acetic acid , but is insoluble in petroleum ether .
The solution in ether has a pink colour , and shows a spectrum consisting of four bands , of which two , viz. , one in the red and the other in the green , are very dark .
On diluting the solution until only a slight tinge of colour is left , the band in the green becomes very faint , while that in the red splits up into two nearly equal narrow bands ; the band in the green remains single , however much the solution may be diluted , whereas the analogous derivative of phyllocyanin , after its solution has stood for some time , shows a characteristic double band in this part of the spectrum .
The description of phylloxanthin just given shows that the properties of the substance closely resemble those of its companion phyllocyanin .
Until the composition of the two substances has been ascertained , it is impossible to say in what relation they stand to one another ; it is probably a case of isomerism .
All attempts to transform phylloxanthin into phyllocyanin , or vice , failed .
It is certain , howevei ' , that the two substances are not formed simultaneously , unless strong acids , such as hydrochloric , are employed .
When , for instance , a little acetic acid is added to an ethereal solution of chlorophyll there is an immediate change of colour in the solution accompanied by the formation of phylloxanthin ; it is only after some time that phylloc}7anin makes its appearance ; at least , such is the conclusion derived from spectroscopic examination of the solution .
This phenomenon may be explained by supposing that the two substances phyllocyanin and phylloxanthin are formed by the decomposition of two distinct bodies .
The researches of Stokes , Sorby , and others have led to the conclusion that ordinary chlorophyll is a mixture of several colouring matters , two of which Mr. Sorby has named " blue chlorophyll " and " yellow chlorophyll " respectively .
In a written communication which Sir Gr .
Stokes has kindly addressed to me , he informs me that'he has satisfied himself that by decomposition with acids blue chlorophyll yields phyllocyanin , whereas yellow chlorophyll gives phylloxanthin .
This interesting fact affords a striking confirmation of the views held by him regarding the complex uature of chlorophyll .
The literature of chlorophyll contains descriptions of several sul)VOL .
L. Y Mr. E. Sehunck , stances the properties of which closely resemble those of phyllo .
xanthin .
One of these is Pringsheim 's " hypochlorin .
" After im. mersing tissues containing chlorophyll in dilute hydrochloric acid , Pringsheim observed the formation , after some time , of peculiar brown crystalloid , sometimes even crystallised , bodies , attached to , and proceeding from , the chlorophyll corpuscles of the cells , and which he supposed to pre-exist in the latter , the acid merely serving to eliminate them .
They constitute his hypochlorin .
I have re-peated Pringsheim 's experiments with the leaves of various plants , and found the phenomena under the microscope exactly such as he describes .
On examining the properties of the hypochlorin obtained , more especially the absorption spectrum pf its solution , I arrived at the conclusion that they do not differ from those of phylloxanthin , and that the two substances are , in fact , identical .
Action of Alkalis on Chlorophyll .
The action of alkalis on chlorophyll has been less frequently and less minutely studied than that of acids .
This may be easily accounted for , seeing that , by the prolonged action of alkalis on solutions of chlorophyll , no marked changes as regards colour or other outward properties take pi ace* in the latter , some authors going so far as to say that no change whatever is effected by the action , the chlorophyll merely combining with the alkali to form a saline compound .
That alkalis do not effect so profound an alteration in chlorophyll as acids do is true ; still , there can be no doubt that the former do lead to the formation of a substance having quite distinct properties , as I think I shall succeed in showing .
Chautard , * who was , I believe , the first to study the action of alkalis on chlorophyll , states that when caustic potash is added to an alcoholic solution of chlorophyll , which is then heated , a change takes place in the spectrum , which consists in the splitting into two of the band in the red , called by him " band specifique , " the addition of an excess of acid causing it to appear single again , the doubling reappearing with alkalis , and so on .
The fainter bands of the chlorophyll spectrum disappeared almost entirely in Chantard 's experiment .
On adding potash or soda to a chlorophyll solution Russell and Lapraikf observed a change in the spectrum , which consisted in the fading out of all except the least refrangible or dominant hand , the latter at the same time spreading towards the blue .
With a considerable excess of alkali the dominant band divided into two distinct hands , in accordance with the observation of Chautard .
TschirehJ devotes a whole chapter of his " Investigations " to an * 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 76 , pp. 570 , 1273 .
t ' Journal of the Chemical Society , ' vol. 41 , p. 334 .
t \#166 ; Cnterauckungen ub .
da* Chlorophyll , ' Berlin , 1884 .
I i % I .iij P| k\ bta lin a A silj i it [ ff SI lea ctiff rf ' i red M A ifck pelf tel'1 bald ltt } A Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll 313 account of the action of alkalis on chlorophyll .
The conclusion he arrives at is that the action induces a complete change in the chlorophyll , leading to the formation of a distinct substance which he calls " chlorophyllic acid .
" The compounds of this substance with alkalis show , when in solution , two bands in the red , one of them being very thin/ By the action of hydrochloric acid chlorophyllic acid undergoes decomposition ; the ethereal solution of the product of decomposition shows a spectrum which is , apparently , that of phyllocyanin .
Hansen in his memoir , entitled " Der Chloropnyllfarbstoff , * assumes that chlorophyll undergoes no change by the action of alkalis , and even submits the crude colouring matter to a process of saponification in order to obtain it in a state of purity .
The final product obtained by Hansen appeared in sphaero-crystals , and consisted , according to him , of chlorophyll , or , as he prefers to call it , " chlorophyll-green , " in the highest possible state of purity .
The fact that its solutions show the ordinary chlorophyll spectrum would seem to prove the accuracy of this viewr .
Nevertheless , it is evident from the description of its mode of preparation and properties that chlorophyll-green must have been a sodium compound ; and this , indeed , is acknowledged by the author himself who , in a subsequent memoir , f describes a process for obtaining the colouring matter free from sodium , which , from the fact of the substance being very sensitive to the influence of acids , must be conducted with care . .
In a memoir , entitled " Extraction de la Matiere Verte des h evils , + Guignet describes a method for obtaining the sodium compound of chlorophyll in dark green , crystalline needles , of which he says that its solutions show exactly the same absorption bands as those of ordinary chlorophyll .
I have repeated the experiments of Hansen and Guignet , but have not succeeded in obtaining a crystalline compound as they did , probably from want of manipulative skill on my part .
The product prepared by Guignet 's process , though amorphous , did , however , on decomposition with acid yield a result which plainly showed that the body acted on was by no means unchanged chlorophyll ; the product of decomposition gave the reactions not of phyllocyanin or phylloxanthin , but of phyllotaonin .
In order to confirm or otherwise the results arrived at by my predecessors , I devised a new and comparatively simple method of preparing what has been called " alkaline'chlorophyll .
" The process I adopt may bo described as follows:\#151 ; Fresh leaves , preferably of grass , are treated with boiling spirits of wine containing about 80 per cent , of alcohol .
The green extract is filtered hot and , after standing for a day or two , yields a dark green voluminous deposit containing * * Arbeiten d. Bot. Institute in Wurzburg , ' vol. 3 , p. 1 .
t ' Arbeiten d. Bot. Institute in Wurzburg , ' vol. 3 , p. 3 .
X ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 100 , p. 434 .
Mr. E. Schunck .
a considerable portion of the chlorophyll of the extract along with other matters .
The deposit is filtered off and then treated with a boiling solution of caustic soda in strong alcohol .
The boiling should be continued for some time before the liquid is filtered .
Through the dark green filtrate a current of carbon dioxide is then passed for some time .
The gas produces a green deposit which settles rapidly , the liquid only retaining a pale yellowrish-green colour .
After standing some time the deposit is filtered off ; it consists in great part of crystalline particles of sodium bicarbonate , together with the product of the action of alkali on chlorophyll combined with soda .
The mass on the filter is now washed with cold alcohol as long as the latter takes up colour , and is then treated with water , in which the greater part dissolves , a little nicely crystallised chrysophyll being generally left undissolved .
The filtrate is now mixed with several times its volume of a saturated solution of common salt .
This gives a green flocculent precipitate which settles slowly , leaving a supernatant pale green liquid .
The precipi-tate is filtered off and washed with saturated salt solution until the percolating liquid is no longer alkaline .
It is then treated with boiling alcohol , which dissolves the greater part , leaving undissolved a small quantity of green powder consisting of calcium and magnesium compounds formed by double decomposition from the calcium and magnesium chlorides with which common salt is usually contaminated .
The filtered alcoholic solution leaves on evaporation a dark green residue along with a quantity of salt .
The latter may be in part removed by treatment with a small quantity of cold water , and the rest remains behind when cold absolute alcohol , in which the green compound is soluble , is added .
The solution in absolute alcohol is of a pure dark green , and leaves on evaporation an amorphous resin-like residue , which is purple and lustrous by reflected and bright green by transmitted light ; it may be easily pulverised , yielding a dark green powder .
The product thus obtained is a sodium compound , and is soluble in water .
The aqueous , solution gives green precipitates with barium chloride , lead acetate , cupric acetate , and silver nitrate ; the silver precipitate blackens at once on boiling the liquid .
In order to obtain the substance with which the sodium is combined , the product is dissolved in water and just sufficient acetic acid is added to set the green substance combined with the sodium at liberty .
The whole is then shaken up with ether* which dissolves the green flocculent precipitate , giving a dark green solution .
The latter is washed several times with water in order to remove the free acid and sodium acetate , and is then evaporated spontaneously , when it leaves a residue which cannot be distinguished by its appearance from the sodium compound from which it is derived .
The substance thus obtained possesses properties by which it may jftfl s'- it !
\#174 ; It , , ' r ' ot i ) ' t I i it [ t f I Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
315 be easily distinguished from chlorophyll , and which give it the character of a substance suigeneris .
I would propose to call it , until i a better name can be found , alkachlorophy a name pointing at the l same time to the agent by which it is formed and to its resemblance * to the mother substance .
It shows no signs whatever of crystalline structure , is quite insoluble in boiling water , but easily soluble in \#187 ; alcohol , ether , chloroform , benzol , aniline , and carbon disulphide , but i insoluble in petroleum ether .
Its solutions have a brilliant green t colour with a pronounced bluish tinge , by which they may be easily .
distinguished from ordinary chlorophyll solutions , and a marked red \#166 ; fluorescence .
The ethereal solution shows no less than six absorption !
bands .
Of these , the two in the red probably correspond with those first observed by Ghautard , while the one in the blue is in a part of ; the spectrum in which total absorption takes place with ordinary f chlorophyll solutions .
Alkichlorophyll in solution shows a remarkable degree of pei-i manence when exposed to the combined action of air and light as jj compared with chlorophyll .
Having prepared an ethereal solution of i alkachlorophyll , and also an ethereal solution of ordinary chlorophyll , ( from fern fronds , as nearly as possible of the same depth of coloui as j the difference of tint would permit , I exposed the two solutions in , loosely stoppered bottles to the action of alternate sunlight and , diffused daylight in a window facing the south .
The experiment commenced on the 21st February .
On the 27th of the same month ; the chlorophyll solution had lost its green colour and become yellow , the chlorophyll bands having disappeared , those still remaining being due to pliyllocyanin , the formation of which was doubtless due to decomposition of part of the chlorophyll .
The solution of alkacliloro- , pbyll , on the other hand , was still green , and still showed the six original bands , though it was found to have lost in intensity of colour when compared with another portion of the same solution that had been kept in the dark .
On the 11th March the solution had become pale green , and now only showed four bands .
On the 25th March the solution still showed the bands in the red and blue , though they appeared very faint .
On the 8th May a slight green tinge was still visible , but the bands had nearly disappeared .
The relatively great stability of alkachlorophyll when exposed to air and light is of itself sufficient to prove that by the action of alkali chlorophyll undergoes a 'borough change .
The action of acids on alkachloropbyll is especially interesting , be-cause the products to which it gives rise differ entirely from those drived from the decomposition of chlorophyll with acids .
When acetic acid is added to an alcoholic solution of alkachlorophyll the solution on heating loses its green colour , which changes to a dirty I'uuple .
The substance is now completely decomposed , but no phylloMr .
E. Schunck .
cyanin is found among the products of decomposition , the chief product nearly resembling phyllotaonin , with which it is indeed probably identical .
The solution , on being evaporated nearly to dryness , gives a dark coloured deposit , which being filtered off may be dissolved in boiling glacial acetic acid .
The solution left to stand yields a semi-crystalline deposit , which , filtered off , washed with cold alcohol , ' ' and dried , appears purple by reflected light ; it dissolves , though not i readily , in ether , giving a purplish solution which shows the same .
absorption bands as phyllotaonin acetate or ethylphyllotaonin .
0n , treatment with alcoholic potash it dissolves , giving a bright green solution which on boiling turns brown , and on now adding acetic acid and shaking up with ether a solution is obtained which has the colour and shows the same bands as a solution of phyllocyanin .
These reactions would seem to indicate the presence of pliyllotaonin among the products of decomposition of alkachlorophyll ; the simultaneous presence of other products , especially fatty acid , renders its purification difficult .
The method of preparing alkachlorophyll as above described does not of course preclude the possibility of its containing an admixture of fatty acid ; still I cannot help thinking that a portion at least of the fatty acid found is actually formed during the process of decomposition with acids .
In order to see whether , in addition to the one just described , some other product or products possibly soluble in water were formed by the action of acids on alkachlorophyll , a quantity of the substance was treated with boiling dilute sulphuric acid .
The acid liquid filtered from the undissolved matter was coloured blue .
On being neutralised with barium carbonate the blue colour disappeared , and the liquid having been filtered and evaporated left a slightly coloured residue which was treated with absolute alcohol .
This dissolved a portion , and left after filtration and evaporation a pale yellow glutinous residue .
This residue was soluble in water , but insoluble in ether .
The watery solution had an alkaline reaction ; it did not react with Fehling 's solution .
The alcoholic solution gave with platinum chloride a pale yellow crystalline deposit .
The quantity of the substance obtained in this experiment was too small to allow of its identification .
Should it turn out to be an organic base , as its reactions would seem to indicate , the fact would tend to confirm the view taken by Hoppe-Seyler , who obtained cliolin as a product of decomposition of his chlorophyllan , and hence concluded that chlorophyll itself might have a constitution similar to that of lecithin .
Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
317 Absorption Spectra of Substances described in this Paper .
1 .
Product of the action of melting caustic potash on phylloeyanin dissolved in alcohol .
2 .
The same dissolved in ether .
3 .
The same dissolved in concentrated hydrochloric acid .
A Phyllocyanin in ether.* Phylloxanthin in ether .
3 .
Product of the action of alkali on phylloxanthin in ether .
The same , dilute solution .
8 .
The same dissolved in acetic acid .
9 .
Alkaehlorophyll in ether .
10 .
Product of the action of sulphuric acid on alkachlorophyll in ether .
Product of the action of acetic acid on alkachlorophyll in ether .
* This spectrum , which has already been figured , is here given again for the sake comparison with the following one .
VOL. L. z

