Occurrence of the Element Gallium Clay-Ironstone .
35 There is still evidence of liquation of gold towards the centre , but \#166 ; comparison of fig. 12 with those which immediately precede it will show how greatly the arrangement of the alloy has been modified by the presence of the additional 8 per cent , of silver .
The proportion of silver in this alloy was proved by assay to be 15'5 per cent. As there was still evidence of liquation , the metal was cast with still more silver , making 20 per cent , of silver in all .
The alloy , when cast into a mould , proved to be almost uniform in composition , the difference between the centre and the extreme portions being very slight .
Liquation had practically ceased , a fact which proves incontestably that silver is the solvent for the base metals , zinc and lead , when they are alloyed with gold .
Conclusions.\#151 ; ( 1 ) Alloys of gold with base metals , notably with lead and zinc , now largely often met with in industry , have the gold concentrated towards the centre and lower portions , which renders it impossible to ascertain their true value with even an approximation to accuracy .
( 2 ) When silver is also present these irregularities are greatly modified .
The method of obtaining " cooling-curves " of the alloys shows that the freezing points are very diffei*ent when silver is present and when it is absent from the alloy .
( 3 ) This fact naturally leads to the belief that if the base metal present does not exceed 30 per cent. , silver will dissolve it and form a uniform alloy with gold .
( 4 ) This conclusion is sustained by the experiments illustrated by figs. 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , which , in fact , gradually lead up to it , and enable a question of much interest to be solved .
\#166 ; " On the Occurrence of the Element Gallium in the Clay-Ironstone of the Cleveland District of Yorkshire .
Preliminary Notice .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and Hugh Ramage , A.R.C.S.I. , F.I.C. , Assistant Chemist in the Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Received April 13 , \#151 ; Read May 7 , 1890 .
In the course of an investigation of flame spectra at high temperatures ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 185 , pp. 1029\#151 ; 1091 ( 1894 ) ) extended to the basic Bessemer process , the authors were occupied last July and August in observing the flames from the converters at the North -Eastern Steel Company 's Works , at Middlesbrough-on-Tees .
A large number of photographs were taken in series during the pro- .
gress of the " blow , " and also of the " after blow , " but these will 3(5 Occurrence of the Element Gallium Clay-Ironstone .
form the subject of another communication dealing with the chemistry of the process .
Some of the photographs were remarkably fine in definition , and they extended from the less refrangible limit of the red rays to the ultra-violet , about wave-length 3240 .
It may be mentioned here , however , that every line and band in the different spectra was identified .
Some of the photographs afforded evidence of very unusual constituents in the mixture of gases and vapours , which by their combustion and incandescence give the Bessemer flame .
The identity of these could have been established only by means of very complete investigation of oxy-hydrogen blowpipe spectra .
Apart from all technical considerations which were kept in view , and of such purely scientific questions as were involved in similar previous researches carried out by one of us , the examination of these spectra was of great interest , more especially because of the proof of the rare element , gallium , being present in the Bessemer metal , and in the roasted ore from which it was extracted .
It was shown by very careful analyses that the gallium was concentrated in the iron , but all details of the operations involved in its separation and of the quantitative determinations are reserved for a future communication .
The evidence of the existence of gallium in the ore and in the metal rests on the measurements of the wave-lengths of the lines in a large number of photographed spectra and upon the relative strengths of the lines in the different materials examined and in the precipitates obtained therefrom .
The following examples show the nature of this evidence:\#151 ; .
1 .
Evidence from the Bessemer Flame Spectra .
Seventy-six of the photographed spectra of the Bessemer flame contain a strong line with wave-length about 4171'5 , which does not appear to be related to any other line in these spectra , and belongs , therefore , to some other element than those otherwise identified .
2 .
1Evidence from the Spectrum of the " Mixer Metal and of the different substances separated by its Chemical Treatment .
The " mixer metal " heated in the oxy-hydrogen flame gives a spectrum of iron with a strong line having a wave-length of 4171'6 .
The residue left after dissolving the iron by boiling with hydrochloric acid also gives this line 4171*6 very strongly .
Precipitates obtained by boiling the solution of the iron with ammonium acetate give the line 4171*6 and also a weaker line , wavelength 4032*7 .
Electromotive Properties of Electrical Organ of Malapterurus .
37 The latter line is seen only in the absence of manganese , as it very nearly coincides with one of the group of strong manganese lines ; it is , therefore , obscured in the spectra of the Bessemer flame and of the crude iron .
The oxide of gallium was separated as far as possible from all other substances and heated in the oxy-hydrogen flame and the characteristic spectrum was then photographed from this oxide .
3 .
Evidence from the Boasted Ore , and substances separated therefrom .
The roasted Cleveland ore was heated alone for thirty-five minutes in the oxy-hydrogen flame , it gave only a very faint indication of one line in the spectrum of gallium .
The solution extracted from the ore by digesting it with warm dilute hydrochloric acid of double normal strength , when boiled with ammonium acetate gave a pi'ecipi-tate , the spectrum of which contained the line 4171*6 fairly strong .
The silicious residue insoluble in strong hydrochloric acid , when decomposed by fusion with caustic potash and subsequent boiling with water , after concentration of the solution so as to retain the gallium , gave a spectrum containing both lines , 4171*6 and 4032*7 .
AH other elements had been removed .
The wave-lengths given are on Rowland 's scale .
The lines were measured on many plates and also repeatedly on the same plate , the results being the same in each case .
" The Electromotive Properties of the Electrical Organ of Malapterurus electricus .
" By FRANCIS GoTCH , M.A. ( Qxon .
) , F.R.S. , and G. J. Burch , M.A. ( Oxon .
) .
Received April 2 , \#151 ; Read May 7 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments were made upon six specimens of Malapterurus electricus , 12 to 15 cm .
in length , brought from the River Senegal by Mr. A. Ridyard ( ss .
" Niger " ) , and generously placed at the disposal of the authors by the Liverpool Corporation Museum Committee , to whom and to Ur .
Forbes , the Director of the Museum , the authors desire to express their thanks .
Three of the specimens were killed , in order to carry out experiments upon the isolated organ .
The instrumental methods employed by the authors for determining for the first time the characters and time relations of the activity of the organ response were chiefly the following :\#151 ; ( a. ) The record of the frog nerve muscle galvanoscope .
( b. ) The galvanometer connected with a suitable rheotome .

