Experiments and Observations on the Motion of the Sap in Trees .
In a Letter from Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read February 16 , 1804 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1804 , p. 183 .
] Some experiments are here described , the tendency of which is to prove , what the author had advanced as a conjecture in a former communication , that the vessels of the bark which pass from the leaves to the roots , are iii their organization better calculatedto carry the fluids they contain towards the roots than in the opposite direction .
In the first of these experiments several strong horizontal shoots of vines were depressed about their middle ; and at that part , buried in the mould , contained in pots about ten inches in diameter : after some months of vegetation , when the shoots had nearly filled the pots with roots , they were separated from the parent stock , having at each side above the earth a certain length of the layer , with at least one bud upon each .
The end towards the stock was called the inverted , and the other the proper end of the layer .
If the author 's above-mentioned conjecture of the retrograde motion of the sap be founded , it would follow that in the subsequent vegetation the inverted would display a more vigorous growth than the proper end ; and this accordingly was soon found to be the case , with this additional circumstance , that the parts beyond the buds on the inverted ends were observed to increase considerably , while the same parts on the proper ends not only withered , but even gradually died away .
In another experiment a number of cuttings of gooseberry and currant trees were planted , some in their natural erect , and others in an inverted position .
Many of these , especially the gooseberry cuttings , failed altogether ; but in those that survived , the same accumulation of wood was observed on the upper ends of the inverted cuttings as on the vine shoots : similar effects were likewise observed in inverted grafts of the apple-tree , and in some respects also in cuttings from the sallow-tree , where , however , they being of some .
length , the accumulation of wood did not take place at the summit , but about the base of the cuttings .
It will be needless to dwell minutely on these results , since they may all be deduced from the author 's theory , which , in addition to what has been above stated , is , nearly in his own words , -that the vessels of plants are not equally well calculated to carry their contents in opposite directions ; and that the vessels of the bark , like those which constitute the venous system of animals ( to which they are in many respects analogous ) , are provided with valves , imperceptible indeed to our eye on account of their extreme minuteness , but whose effects in directing the course of the sap are sufficiently obvious .
The paper concludes with some strictures on the experiments described by Hale and Du Hamel , and the reasons why these naturalists did not arrive at the same conclusions which are here brought forward , and an experiment which illustrates some parts of the paper the author gave last year on the descent of sap in trees .

