76 Messrs. J. H. Gray and J. B. Henderson .
[ Mar. 2 , occur in the day and only one in the night .
In the former case the negative portions of the component correspond with the reduced morning and afternoon temperatures of the short day , and in the latter the two positive phases correspond with the higher temperature of the mornings and afternoons of the longer day .
These conclusions are in conformity with those previously indicated .
The available data are insufficient to enable us to say whether the corresponding results connected with the fourth component are as fully supported by observation as in the case of the third , but the facts so far as they go confirm this view .
It may also be pointed out that , if instead of reckoning the epochs of maximum from midnight , that nearest to noon had been adopted , it would have been seen that there is a distinct tendency for all these epochs to approach noon , affording evidence , which is perhaps hardly required , that they are all closely dependent on the passage of the sun over the meridian .
For Greenwich the results would be\#151 ; Winter .
Equinox .
Summer .
1 st component ... . . .
222 ' 215 ' 210 ' 2nd " . .
200 198 181 3rd " . . . . . .
194 \#151 ; ( 193 ) 4th " . .
190 ( 193 ) 196 In the case of the third and fourth components , the figures enclosed in brackets are epochs of minimum .
II .
" The Effects of Mechanical Stress on the Electrical Resistance of Metals .
" By James H. Gray , M.A. , B.Sc. , and James B. Henderson , B.Sc. , International Exhibition Scholars , Glasgow University .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , P.R.S. Received February 10 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) This investigation was begun for the purpose of obtaining an easily worked method of testing the effect of any mechanical treatment on the density and specific resistance of metals .
For alteration of density , copper , lead , and manganese copper wires were tested .
The effect of stretching was always to diminish the density , the alteration being small however : for copper about \#166 ; | per -cent .
, and for lead per cent. The effect of drawing through holes in a steel plate was somewhat greater , showing at first an in1893 .
] Effects of Mechanical Stress on Electrical Resistance .
77 crease of 2 per cent. ; and , when the drawing was continued , the density began to diminish till , after drawing from diameter 2 mm. to 1*3 mm. , it showed an increase on its original value of per cent. Several other interesting results on alteration of density were obtained .
The most important part of the investigation , however , relates to the alteration of specific resistance of copper , iron , and steel wire due to stretching ; and , in connexion with this , the authors wish particularly to emphasise the advantages to be gained from using the unit of specific resistance introduced by Weber , who always defined it in weight measure , that is , as the resistance of a length of the metal numerically equal to its density and section unity .
Taking the expression for the resistance Rof a wire , of section w , length l , and volume specific resistance \lt ; r\#187 ; , R = \lt ; r"(Z/ w ) , we have R = ( Ttp(ljwp ) ( where p is the density of the wire ) = = \lt ; rvp(ljw)l \#151 ; \lt ; rw(JHw)l , w being the weight of the length l , and awe the weight specific resistance of the wire .
We have thus obviated the necessity of making the troublesome and uncertain measurement of the section of the wire , and only require to measure the length and the length per unit of weight , both of which can be done with great accuracy .
Moreover , the weight specific resistance is found to be more nearly constant than the volume unit .
Also , when only a comparison of specific resistance is required , it is not even necessary to weigh the wires , but only to measure lengths , thus making it possible to detect very small changes with great ease and accuracy .
The method used was a modification of what is known as Thomson 's ( Lord Kelvin 's ) Double Bridge Method ( " New Electrodynamic Balance for Resistance of Short Bars or Wires , " 'Phil .
Mag. , '4th series , vol. 24 , 1862 ) .
The method being a zero one , the galvanometer could be made so sensitive as to be almost unstable , so that a change of 1 in 10,000 could be easily detected .
The tests showed that the maximum permanent stretching produced a permanent alteration in the weight specific resistance of copper of 1 per cent. After the maximum stretching had been produced , it was found that there was no permanent alteration of weight specific resistance due to renewed application of stress .
In the tests of steel wire no permanent stretching was obtained , but the effect of applying weight was to cause a very small permanent decrease of specific resistance , 0'06 per cent , at first , and when additional weight was applied there was found to be an increase of 0*06 per cent. These values are very small however , compared with the temporary alteration of 16 per cent. In the tests on soft iron wire the permanent alteration due to permanent stretching was found to be -S- per cent. After the maximum stretching had been obtained stress was again applied , and it was Presents .
[ Mar. 2 , found , as in the copper wire , that there was no permanent alteration unless there was permanent stretching .
Hitherto the results on specific resistance have been given by all investigators on this subject , except Lord Kelvin , in volume units , but , as the alteration in density is in every case very small , the results obtained in the present investigation are in very good agreement with those of former experimenters .
The conclusions arrived at are that for practical purposes any mechanical treatment , however severe , does not affect the electrical properties of the metals tested .
As contrasted with this , it is interesting to note that the smallest impurity in the metal produces a greater change than the most severe mechanical treatment .
For example , an impurity of -f per cent , lowers the electrical conductivity by 13*5 per cent , while an impurity of \#163 ; per cent , lowers it as much as 30 per cent. III .
A New Hypothesis concerning Vision .
" By John Berry Haycraft , M.D. , D.Sc .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received February 16 , 1893 .
[ Publication deferred .
] Presents , March 2 , 1893 .
Transactions .
Adelaide:\#151 ; Royal Society of South Australia .
Transactions .
Vol. XV .
Part 2 .
Vol. XVI .
Parti .
8vo .
1892 .
The Society .
Berlin :\#151 ; Gresellschaft fiir Erdkunde .
Zeitschrift .
Band XXVII .
No. 5 .
8vo .
Berlin 1892 .
The Society .
Calcutta:\#151 ; Asiatic Society of Bengal .
Journal .
Vol. LXI .
Part 1 .
No. 3 .
8vo .
Calcutta 1892 ; Proceedings 1892 .
Nos. 8 , 9 .
8vo .
Calcutta 1892 .
The Society .
Charlottenburg:\#151 ; Physikalisch-Technische Reichsanstalt .
Vor-schlage zu gesetzlichen Bestimmungen fiber Electrische Maasseinheiten .
Von Dr. E. Dorn .
8vo .
Berlin 1893 .
The Institute .
Cracow :\#151 ; Academy des Sciences .
Bulletin International .
1893 .
Janvier .
8vo .
Cracovie 1893 .
The Academy .
EssexEssex Field Club .
The Essex Naturalist .
Vol. VI .
No. 12 .
8vo .
Buckhurst Hill 1892 .
The Club .
Kazan:\#151 ; Imperial University .
Scientific Notes .
1893 .
No. 1 .
[ Russian.']8vo .
Kazan 1893 .
The University .

