On the Passage of the Ovum from the Ovarium to the Uterus in Women .
By Sir Everard Home , Bctrt .
V.P.R.S. Read May 1 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 252 .
] No physiological subject has attracted more attention than the first formation of the embryo in the class Mammalia ; and although it has been ascertained that an ovum is formed in the ovarium of the quadruped , the circumstances respecting its impregnation have not been ascertained .
Harvey , and John and William Hunter , have each failed in this inquiry ; Haighton and Cruikshank were equally unsuccessful .
In this state of our knowledge , says Sir Everard Home , accident has led to that which no predetermined experiments could have accomplished , and has enabled me to detect the ovum in the human uterus .
It is so small , that had not the uterus been previously hardened in spirit , it would probably have escaped observation ; and , says the author , it would have been difficultly identified as the ovum from which a child was to be produced , had it not been for the assistance of Mr. Bauer , the only person who could so correctly apply the powers of the microscope as to enable him accurately to delineate its organization .
The history of the case and dissection is as follows .
A servant maid , twenty-one years of age , left her master 's house the 7th of January , 1817 , for several hours in the forenoon .
On returning in the evening she complained of sickness , and went to bed .
Next day she continued unwell .
The period of menstruation had arrived , but did not come on .
She appeared much distressed in her mind .
On the 13th she had an epileptic fit , became delirious , and died on the 15th .
On examining the uterus it showed signs of pregnancy ; and circumstances proved that she must have been impregnated on the 7th of January , that is eight days before her death .
The right ovarium had a small torn orifice upon the most prominent part of its external surface , which led to a cavity filled up with coagulated blood , and surrounded by a yellowish organized structiure .
The inner surface of the uterus was covered with coagulable lymph , among the fibres of which , near the cervix , was the ovum .
It was ovalshape ; and though at first partly semitransparent , became opake from the action of the spirit .
It was immediately taken to Mr. Bauer , who compared it to the egg of an insect , and succeeded in pointing out the effects of impregnation in two projecting points , the rudiments of the heart and brain .
The corpus luteum has always been regarded as the effect of impregnation , -a notion which the present case has enabled the author to disprove , by showing it to be a glandular structure in which the ovum is formed ; and after its expulsion the blood which fills the cavity is absorbed , leaving a small empty space as the former situation of the ovum .
Sir Everard Home examnined several ovaria , where it was impossible that impregnation should ever have taken place , and found small cavities round the edge of the ovarium , showing that diuring the state of virginity ova had passed out .
And it appears , that whenever a female quadruped is in heat , one or more ova pass into the uterus , whether she receives the male or not .
In the drawings belonging to this paper , the changes which take place in the ovarium , for the purpose of forming the ova , are shown , and also the internal surface of the Fallopian tube at the time of the passage of the ovum .
The dilatation of this tube at a small distance from the fimbrike , seems to be both for the reception of the ovum and of the semen ; and it is probable that the ovum is retained there for several days , so as to prolong the opportunity of its being impregnated .
The formation of ova in the ovaria , and their appearing in that organ in succession , induces the author to entertain an opinion contrary to that commonly received respecting menstruation , which has been considered as a necessary preparatory step for utero-gestation , whereas the present case shows that su .
h periods are not connected with the formation of the ovum , the process of its leaving the ovarium , or its impregnation .
When , however , impregnation does not take place , such a discharge seems necessary for the relief of parts to which there had been so copious a determination of blood .
The paper concludes with Mr. Bauer 's account of the appearance of the ovum , and of the drawings which are annexed to .
the paper .

