The Croonian Lecture .
Microscopical Observations on the following Subjects .
On the Brain and Nerves ; showing that the Materials of which they are composed exist in the Blood .
On the Discovery of Valves in the Branches of the Vas breve , lying between the Villouns and Muscular Coats of the Stomach .
On the Structure of the Spleen .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read December 7 , 1820 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 25 .
] By a microscopic examination of the retina and optic nerve , Mr. Bauer found them to consist of globules of - , g to - , ,of an inch diameter , united by a transparent viscid and coagulable gelatinous fluid : the brain also , according to the same observer , consists of the same globules , united by the viscid jelly , and forming a fibrous arrangement .
After describing the peculiarities in texture of the different parts of the brain , Sir Everard adverts to the circumstance of lymphatics never having been found in that organ , and shows that the veins are supplied with valves , and perform the office of absorbents , carrying their contents into the superior longitudinal sinus , which appears rather to be a reservoir than a vein , for the fluid that passes through it is not simply circulating blood , but contains the colouring matter in a decomposed state , and is black as ink .
There can be little doubt , says Sir Everard , that the communication of sensation and volition is more or less dependent upon the viscid mucus which links the globules of the brain and nerves together ; he then proceeds to show its existence in the blood , and that it is the medium by which the colouring matter is attached to the surface of the red globules .
It would appear therefore , continues the author , that the principal materials of which the body is composed are found in the blood , with the exception of fat ; fat , however , is found in the blood of the skate and salmon , and perhaps is united with the alkali in human blood .
Sir Everard next details the result of his examination of the veins of the coats of the stomach , and of the vasa brevia , which are also supplied with valves , and which act the part of absorbents .
In tracing these veins towards the cavity of the stomach , they became indistinct just as they entered the villi .
This paper concludes with some observations respecting the structure and uses of the spleen , from which Sir Everard concludes that it is a reservoir to receive the superabundant serum carried into the circulation from the stomach into the splenic vein ; and not only of the serum , but of the coagulable lymph , globules , soluble mucus , and colouring matter , which are carried to the thoracic duct when wanted .

