142 Sir Norman Lockyer .
that the pelvic girdle in different specimens is not homologous\#151 ; an assumption which at present seems unjustifiable .
( 3 ) The different variations observed are not discordant with the view that the limb is capable of migrating along the body , on which view it must be supposed that a secondary rostral migration has followed a primary caudal one .
Moreover , such a view receives confirmation from the existence of a posterior collector and of a more extensive anterior collector in certain embryonic stages .
" Further Observations on Nova Persei .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received and Read March 7 , 1901 .
[ Plate 1 .
] Since the preliminary note on this star was communicated to the Royal Society on February 28th , observations have been possible on the nights of February 28th , March 1st , 3rd , and 5th , and twenty-four photographs of the spectrum have been taken with the instruments before detailed .
It may be stated generally that the light is slowly waning .
On February 28th the star was only slightly brighter than a Persei .
On March 1st it was estimated as about equal to a Persei , about 2 0 magnitude .
When it was again visible on the evening of March 3rd , it was distinctly less bright than / 3 Persei , and its magnitude probably near 2'5 ; on the 5tli its estimated magnitude was 2 i. The above refers to the visual brightness .
A photograph of the region occupied by the Nova on March 3rd showed it to be photographically brighter than a Persei .
General Description of the Spectrum .
The photographs show that the bright hydrogen lines are successively feebler as the ultra-violet is approached , and the whole of the series of hydrogen lines have during the past week become relatively brighter with respect to the remaining lines and the continuous spectrum .
The spectrum extends far into the ultra-violet .
Among the changes which have taken place in the visible part of the spectrum , it may be mentioned that while the lines of hydrogen have become relatively brighter during the past week , the remaining lines with the possible exception of the prominent one at A 5169 , have become distinctly dimmer .
There has also been a diminution of the intensity of the continuous spectrum .
The line , m the yellow , the identity of which has not yet been definitely determined , has gr ac ua decreased in intensity with the diminution of brightness of the star .
line of green iant .
id and lity of iserva-\gt ; ssible , during lour of o note ides to erence d that ; r new isified .
ons of scribed 2jed by at He th the Further Observations Nova In the visible part of the spectrum the bright green-blue F line of hydrogen has become more conspicuous as the neighbouring green lines have become fainter , and the bright C line is intensely brilliant .
From all these causes , which give us blue light on the one hand and red on the other , the star should present to us the precise quality of red which has been observed .
Colour .
At discovery the star was described as bluish-white .
No observations on its variation in hue during its brightening were possible , owing to unfavourable weather conditions .
The observations during the peiiod of decline have indicated a change to the present colour of a decided claret red .
In comparison with this , it is interesting to note that in the case of the Nova which appeared in 1604 , Kepler alludes to purple and red tints assumed by the star .
Changes in the Photographic Spectrum .
Between February 25th and March 5th , to take the extreme difference of dates on which photographs were obtained , it has been noted that while some of the dark lines were absent at the later date , either new lines had come in or previously feeble lines had become intensified .
There has not yet been time to determine accurately the positions of these lines ( see Plate 1 ) .
The appearance of the bright lines of hydrogen which I described as being reversed on February 25th , had very materially changed by March 3rd .
In inspecting the dark band representing the bright hydrogen at He two darker fine lines are seen nearly coincident in position with the edges of He in the spectrum of a Persei .
To my eye the light curve is as follows :\#151 ; n IU1 The appearance is different in the case of the F line ( H/ l ) , a light curve of which I also give\#151 ; Sir Norman Lockyer .
Hfi red .
No doubt the differences in the appearances are due to the fact that at He we are dealing with the lines both of hydrogen and calcium .
Rough measurements on the bright line H/ 3 show that the interval between the centres of the two extreme maxima shown in the light curve corresponds to about 25 tenth-metres .
This would give a differential velocity of 960 miles per second between the different sets of hydrogen atoms in the bright-line swarm itself .
It may be then that the appearances described as reversals of the hydrogen lines on February 25th , were but the beginning of the subsequent changes .
The comparisons with stars which have been taken with the slit spectroscope on each evening of observation , indicate that no gieat change in the velocity of the dark-line component has occurred .
So much , however , cannot be said of the bright lines , in which a change has been observed .
In addition to the hydrogen lines the strong lines in the green already ascribed to iron , appear to be double in the photographs most recently obtained .
Comparison with a. Cygni .
The view of the apparent similarity between the spectra of Nova Persei and Nova Auriga to which I drew attention in my previous paper , has been strengthened by the comparisons which have since been made . . .
The bright lines in the spectrum of Nova Persei are so broad , especially in the blue and violet , that accurate determinations of their wave-lengths are difficult to obtain .
The lines less refrangible than I , however , besides being more isolated , are narrower than those in the more refrangible part of the spectrum .
A direct comparison of these with the lines in the spectrum of a star which is known to contain the enhanced lines of iron , \amp ; c. , has been considered a better method of arriving at some definite conclusion as to the connection between the Nova lines and the enhanced lines , than that of determining the wavelengths of the broad lines and comparing the results with the know n wave-lengths of the enhanced lines .
Farther Observations on Nova The best star for this purpose is a Cygni , but unfortunately no good photograph has been obtained at Kensington of the green portion of the spectrum of that star .
The star most nearly approaching a Cygni in relation to enhanced lines is a Canis Majoris , which in the Kensington classification has been placed nearly on a level with the former star , but on the descending side of the temperature curve .
In the spectrum of this star the enhanced lines of iron AA 492441 , r 5169*07 5018-63 , j 5169.22 and 5316-79 occur as well-marked lines .
This spectrum has been directly compared with that of Nova Persei taken with the same instrument , and the fact that all the lines apparently coincide , affords good evidence that the connection is a real one , and that the first four strong Nova lines beyond P on the less refrangible side are the representatives of the enhanced lines of iron .
These are the only enhanced lines which occur in that part of the iron spectrum , with the exception of a weak one at A 5276-17 .
There is only a trace of this line in the spectra of either the Nova or a Canis Majoris which have been compared .
In the spectra of the Nova obtained with lower dispersion , however , a line is distinctly shown in this position , though it is considerably weaker than the four lines previously mentioned .
The absence of the strong lines which are .
familiar in the arc spectrum , and in the ordinary spark spectrum in this region , is to be ascribed to higher temperature ; experiments which are in progress show that under certain conditions , the two lines A 5018-6 and A 5169 are by far the strongest lines in the spectrum of iron between A 500 and D , while that at A 4924 " 1 is distinctly stronger than any of the well-known group of four arc lines in which it falls .
The published wave-lengths of the lines of Nova Aurigse show that the same lines were present in that star .
Further investigations of the spectrum of Nova Aurigse have strengthened the conclusion that most of the lines , after wTe pass from those of hydrogen , are enhanced lines of a comparatively small number of metals .
AV hen the inquiry is extended into the region more refrangible than H/ 3 , the evidence in favour of the similarity of the spectra of the two Novae with that of a Cygni is not so conclusive , because of the greater breadth of the lines ( since the spectra have been obtained by the use of prisms ) and because of the fact that in this region the enhanced lines of iron frequently occur in groups .
In the region between IIS and Hy , however , there is a well marked enhanced line of iron at A 4233-3 and also two doubles at AA 4173*7 , 4179-0 , and AA 4296-7 , 4303-3 , and a comparison of a Cygni with Nova Persei indicates that these fall on broad bright bands of the Nova spectrum .
It is not claimed that all the enhanced lines which appear in the spectrum of a Cygni are represented in that of Nova Aurigie .
There 146 Meeting of March 14 , 1901 , and List of Papers read .
is , however , a sufficient reason why at a. particular stage in the spectrum of such Novae the enhanced lines of certain substances should predominate .
Thus , in y Cygni , titanium is most strongly represented by enhanced lines ; in a Cygni , iron , chromium , and nickel ; in / 3 Orionis , silicium and magnesium , and so on .
We may thus expect to find the lines of different substances most prominent at different stages in the history of the star .
In the wTork above referred to I have been assisted as follows:\#151 ; The new photographs have been taken by Dr. Lockyer and Messrs. Fowler , Baxandall , Shackleton , Butler , Shaw , and Hodgson .
The detailed examination of the photographs has been made by Messrs. Fowler and Baxandall .
The visual observations have been chiefly made by Messrs. Fowler and Butler .
The photographs have been enlarged and the illustrations for this paper prepared by Sapper Wilkie .
To all , my best thanks are due .
March 14 , 1901 .
Sir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; - I. " The Action of Magnetised Electrodes upon Electrical Discharge Phenomena in Rarefied Gases .
" By C. E. S. Phillips .
Communicated by Sir W. Crookes , F.R.S. II .
" The Chemistry of Nerve-degeneration .
" By Dr. Mott , F.R.S. , and Professor Halliburton , F.R.S. III .
" On the Ionisation of Atmospheric Air .
' By C. T. R. " Wilson , F.R.S. IV .
" On the Preparation of Large Quantities of Tellurium .
By E. Matthey .
Communicated by Sir George Stokes , Bart. , F. R.S.

