January 18 , 1844 .
SIR J. W. LUBBOCK , Bart. , V.P. , in the Chair .
" On a new Method of Analysis .
" By George Boole , Esq. Communicated by S. Hunter Christie , Esq. , Sec. R.S. , &amp;c. The purport of this paper is to exhibit a new form of analysis , and to found upon it a new theory of Linear Differential Equations , and of Generating Functions .
The peculiarity in the form of the analysis consists in the linear differential equation , instead of being represented , as it has hitherto been , under the type du _dn 1u x0 d +x , -+ Xl : .
X , dxn d Xo , Xl , &amp;c. being functions of the independent variable x , being exhibited in the form fo(D ) u+ f ( D ) eu ... . .
+f , ( D ) E= U ; in which a= x , andfo ( D ) , f , ( D ) , &amp;c. imply functional combinations of the symbol D , which , for the sake of simplicity , is written in d place of- .
This the author calls the exponential form of the dd equation ; and he , in like manner , designates the analogous forms of partial and of simultaneous equations .
What he conceives to be the great and peculiar advantage of the exponential form , both as respects the solution of linear differential equations , and the theory of generating functions , is that the necessary developments , transformations and reductions are immediately effected by theorems the expression of which is independent of the forms of the functions fo ( D ) , fi ( D ) , &amp;c. Accordingly it may be shown that various formulm which have been given for the solution of linear differential equations , with those in which Laplace 's theory of generating functions is comprised , interpreted into the language of the author , are but special cases of theorems dependent on the exponential form above stated , and which are susceptible of universal application .
The common method of effecting the integration of linear differential equations in series fails when the equation determining the lowest index of the development has equal or imaginary roots .
In a particular class of such equations of the second order , Euler has shown that log .
x is involved in the expression of the complete integral : but this appears to be merely a successful assumption ; and the rule of integration demonstrated in the present paper admits of no such cases of exception whatever .
The finite solution of linear differential equations may be attempted by resolution of the proposed equation into a system of equations of an inferior order .
This method applied to the linear equation under its usual forms leads to the well-known solution of equations with constant coefficients : and when applied to the same equation under the exponential form , it gives a result embracing the solution not only of equations with constant coefficients , but also of a large class of equations with variable coefficients .
The author treats , -1 st , of the solution of linear differential equations , total and partial , in series ; 2ndly , of their finite integration ; 3rdly , of the theory of series , or inverse method of development ; 4thly , of linear equations of differences , total and partial , of certain miscellaneous applications , chiefly in the field of definite integrals , single and multiple .

