]\gt ; On the rticles Reflected by Sheets of Matter of Different Thicknesses .
By W. WILSON , M.Sc .
, Exhibition Scholar of the University of Manchester , Wollaston Student of Gonville and Caius College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 27 , \mdash ; Read May 9 , 1912 Int roduction .
The properties of the rays reflected when a beam of -particles strikes an object in its path have been the subject of a large number of ations .
It has been found by many observers , Eve , * S. J. Allen , Schmidt , McClelland , S and Kovarik that the scattered radiation is more easily absorbed than the primary .
concluded from considerations of the distribution of the scattered radiation that it consists of two parts , which he considered to be real secondary and reflected primary rays .
Schmidt , the other hand , has advocated the view thab all the phenomena observed can be explained by mere scattering or reflection of the primary beam .
The following experiments were undertaken in order to determine how the absorbability of the reflected rays depends on the thickness of the reflector , the primary beam one is absorbed by matter to an exponential law .
Experimental Details .
The primary rays used those given out by uranium X , and had an absorption coefficient of 14 cm . .
A very strong source of radiation was obtained from 50 kgrm .
of uranium nitrate by a method devised by Prof. H. W. Schmidt .
The uranium X thus obtained was contained in a brass capsule and was spread out in a thin layer over an area of about 1 sq .
cm .
The layer was so thin that there was very little absorption of the radiation inside it .
It was covered with a thin sheet of mica which protected it from the air and absorbed Che slow groups of rays ( absorption coefficients 500 and 300 c ) which are given out by uranium X and uranium * Eve , ' Phil. Mag 1904 , vol. 6 , p. 8 .
S. J. Allen , ' Phys. Rev 1906 , vol. 23 .
H. W. Schmidt , ' Phys. Zeit 1907 , vol. 8 .
S McClelland , ' Dublin Trans 1905 , vol. 8 .
Kovarik , 'Phil .
Mag November , 1910 .
T McClelland , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1908 , , vol. 80 .
Schmidt , ' Ann. der Phys 1907 , ( 4 ) , vol. 23 .
-Particles Reflected by Sheets oj .
Different Thicknesses .
101 The apparatus used is shown diagrammatically in fig. 1 .
The capsule A containing the uranium X stood on a lead block which prevented the -rays from the ionisation vessel and electroscope .
The -particles struck a screen and were scattered by it , some entering the ionisation vessel , whose central electrode was.connected through an amber plug to the gold leaf electroscope .
The top of the ionisation vessel was closed by a thin sheet of ninium leaf of thickness cm .
The primary beam was prevented from entering the ionisation vessel by the small lead screen F. By measuring the ionisation in when sheets of aluminium of various thicknesses were placed on the top of it , the rate of absorption of the rays reflected by the screens could be determined .
Now the ionisation in the electroscope is due not only to the particles scattered back by the reflector , but also to the -rays , the -particles scattered back by the air above the oscope , and those set up when the -rays strike the reflector .
The quantities not required can be eliminated as follows : was found that the ionisations in the vessel were substantially the same when sheets of lead were placed directly on the uranium X or on the vessel , which shows that the amount of -radiation set up in the reflectors by the -rays is negligible .
By a separate experiment it was found that the -radiation scattered by the air came mostly from the region between the source of radiation and the reflecting screen , and further that this radiation was very easily absorbed , .
almost negligible compared with the radiation scattered by the thicker screens after passing thr.ough about of aluminium .
Mr. W. Wilson .
On rticles Reflected by [ Mar. 27 , Thus , when the reflector was in position , the ionisation in the electroscope was due to the -rays scattered by the screen , those scattered by the air , and the -rays .
When the reflector was absent the ionisation was due to the two latter only and the intensity of the rays reflected by the screen was given by the difference of the two readings .
Results .
Experiments were made with aluminium , copper , and lead as reflectors .
The results obtained for aluminium are shown in fig. 2 , where the intensity sThickness .bsorbing s cm FIG. 2 .
of the reflected radiation is plotted against the thickness of matter traversed for the rays reflected from screens of different thicknesses .
The curves correspond to reflectors , and mm. respectively .
It will be seen that on the whole the rays reflected by thin layers are much more easily absorbed than those reflected by thick ones .
The results are also shown in fig. 3 , where the logarithm of the ionisation is plotted against the thickness of the absorbing screen .
From these curves it will be seen that the reflected radiation can be roughly divided into two parts , an easily absorbed radiation and a more penetrating one .
The coefficient of absorption of the latter is seen to vary with the thickness of the reflector , reater for thin sheets than for thick ones .
The proportion of the penetrating radiation to the whole increases , as would be expected , with the thickness of the reflector .
Similar results were found for lead and copper .
proportion of the penetrating radiation in the whole beam reflected from a thick screen was found to be ooreatest for lead and least for aluminium , while the absorption coefficient of the reflected radiation was greatest for aluminium and least for lead .
12 .
] Sheets of Matter of Different Thicknesses .
The absorption curves for the rays reflected from thick sheets of lead and copper are also shown in fig. 3 , curves and The values of the final absorption coefficients in aluminium of the reflected rays from the three substances examined are given in Table Table I. Experiments were also made , using very thin sheets of aluminium as reflectors and absorbers , to obtain an approximate value for the absorption coefficient of the slow group of reflected rays .
In each case the final straight line of the arithmic curve was produced backwards , and from it Mr. W. Wilson .
On -Particles Reflected by [ Mar. 27 , the ionisation due to the penetrating rays found by extrapolation .
On subtracting the thus found from the ionisation due to the whole beam , we obtain the ionisation due to the slow group of -particles alone .
results are shown in fig. 4 , the curves given being obtained with FIG. 4 .
reflectors and mm. thick respectively .
Owing to the small amount of radiation of this type , results could not be obtained to any great degree of accuracy .
The mean absorption coefficient found was 235 c The fact that the radiation scattered back by sheets of aluminium is apparently of two distinct types seems at first sight to support the view of McClelland that the radiation sent back by a screen consists of a real secondary radiation set up in the screen by the impact of and of a scattered beam whose velocity is only slightly less than that of the primary rays .
The rays given out by uranium X are , however , heterogeneous , and this explanation is not a necessary consequence of the experimental data .
The splitting up of the reflected radiation into two types may be merely arbitrary , the reflected rays to the slower portion of the primary beam being more easily absorbed than those corresponding to 1912 .
] Sheets of Matter Different Thicknesses .
the more portion .
Furbher experiments to test this point are now in progress at the Cavendish Laboratory .
That both types of rays are due to the group of uranium X rays an absorption coefficient 14 cm .
, and not to the slower groups , was shown by placing screens of aluminium over the capsule containing the uranium X. The results obtained with a piece of aluminium mm. thick over the uranium X were exactly the same as when the preparation was uncovered except for the mica .
A series of experiments was made on the absorption of the rays reflected from the air above the electroscope .
The rays were mostly of a very absorbable type , whose coefficient of absorption was 300 c approximately .
There was also a small amount of a more penetrating radiation , whose absorption coefficient was approximately 70 cm .
Variation of Intensity of Reflected Radiation with thickness of Reflector .
In theory for the reflection of -particles which are absorbed according to an exponential law there is a large discrepancy between the calculated and experimental results for elements .
Thus in the case of aluminium for thin sheets a discrepancy of as much as 50 per cent. is found .
Schmidt assumed that the absorption coefficients of the reflected and incident radiations were the same , whereas we ave seen not only that is this not so , but that in the case of light elements a considerable proportion of the reflected radiation is of a very absorbable type .
With the small amount of data at our disposal regarding the reflection of particles of different penetrating powers it is impossible to construct a theory which like that of Schmidt takes account of the boundary conditions , but an expression can be worked out , using simple assumptions , which agrees almost exactly with experiment .
From the fact that the -rays from uranium X are absorbed by matter according to an exponential law it follows that the properties of the rays falling on any thin layer as regards absorption and reflection must be the same no matter what the position of the layer in the material .
Now the rays passing through any layer in the direction of the primary beam are made up of rays which have come straight through the matter and rays which have been scattered by the material they have traversed .
As is found by experiment , however , the intensity of the whole beam decreases according to an exponential law with the thickness of matter traversed , and , usin this fact , we take into consideration not only the rays which have gone straight through the material but also those which have been reflected across * H. W. Schmidt , 'Ann .
der Phys 1907 , 4 , vol. 23 .
Mr. W. Wilson .
On -Particles Reflected by [ Mar. 27 , the layer any number of times .
This , of course , is not rigidly true near the boundaries .
Now , since the rays falling on all layers have identical properties , we can assume that the amount of radiation scattered back by any thin layer is proportional to the intensity of the radiation falling on that layer .
Thus , if is the intensity of the radiation incident on a reflector , the amount of radiation scattered back by a layer of thickness at a distance from the surface is where is a constant and the coefficient of absorption of the rays .
From the foregoing experiments , however , we have seen that the reflected radiation can be considered as consisting of two parts with different absorption coefficients .
We can thus write for the amount of radiation scattered back by the layer under consideration where and are constants .
If and are the coefficients of absorption of these two types of rays in the reflector , the amount of this scattered radiation reaching the front surface will be or , if is the amount of radiation reflected by a screen of thickness which may be written .
For a thick layer Now Schmidt has determined the variation of with the thickness of the reflecting scleens , and , putting his value for the amount of radiation reflected from a thick layer , we have for aluminium Now A and are the maximum amounts of the two types of radiation reflected and their ratio can be easily determined from our absorption curve for the particles reflected by a thick sheet of .
aluminium .
The ratio of to A is found to be .
Hence The value of , as found by various observers , is 14 cm . .
The value of varies from 34 for a thick reflector to 44 for a very thin one .
The value for a sheet of thickness sufficient to reflect half the maximum amount of 1912 .
] Sheets of Matter of Di.fferent Thicknesses .
radiation is about c , and this is used in plotting the theoretical ourve .
The value of is 235 cm .
Using these values , we can calculate the value of for any thickness of the reflector .
The results obtained are shown raphically in .
The Thickness of reflecCor .
theoretical curve is drawn , and points obtained from Schmidt 's experimental curve are marked .
The agreement is seen to be very good .
Unfortunately , results were not obtained for the absorption by lead of the rays reflected from lead .
However , Borodowsky*has shown that , for a large 1lumber of substances , the rate of absorption of different types of -particles in those substances is proportional to that in aluminium .
Applying this to the values obtained for the absorption coefficients of the rays reflected by lead in aluminium , and taking the value of in lead to be 103 c , the values of and are found to be 149 cm .
and 1100 cm .
respectively .
The results obtained , using these values , are also plotted in fig. 5 , and the agreement with experiment is again seen to be good .
It has been shown by McClelland ( loc. cit. ) that the amount of reflected radiation obtained varies with the angle of incidence of the primary beam .
In the experiments described above , the incidence was more or less normal , but the pencil of rays was so diffuse that we may consider the results obtained as representing an average effect .
* Borodowsky , ( Phil. Mag April , 1910 .
108 -Particles Reflected by Sheets of Diferent Thicknesses .
( 1 ) The radiation reflected when the -particles from uranium X strike a screen can be split up into two parts , one with a very large coefficient of absorption , and the other with absorption coefficient of the same order as that of the primary beam .
( 2 ) The absorption coefficient of the more penetrating part of the reflected beam decreases with increasing thickness of the reflector .
( 3 ) The final absorption coefficients of the rays reflected from thick sheets of aluminium , copper , and lead are , and c respectively .
( 4 ) The coefficient of absorption of the easily absorbed part of the radiation reflected by aluminium is about 235 c .
The absorption coefficients of the corresponding reflected from copper , lead , and air have not been determined with any degree of accuracy , but are of the same order of magnitude as that of the rays reflected by aluminium .
( 5 ) An expression has been obtained for the variation of the amount of reflected radiation with the thickness of the reflector , and has been shown to be in good agreement with the results obtained experimentally by Schmidt .
These experiments were carried out in the Physical Laboratories of the University of Giessen , and I wish to express my best thanks to Prof. JConig for placing the resources of the laboratory at my disposal .
I also wish to express my best thanks to Prof. H. W. Schmidt for the great help he gave me in the separation of the uranium X , and for the kind interest he showed in the work while it was in progress .

