]\gt ; 242 Dr. W. Marcet and Mr. B. B. Floris .
difference is only one of per cent. , and the mean differeuQ not exceed 34 calories on 34,462 , amounting to per cent. on may therefore be concluded that the present calorimeter has ; itseIf very accurate for the determination of the heat the combustion of a given volume of hydrogen gas ; and quently it can be accepted as equally reliable for the tion of the heat radiated from the human body or from that fairly large animal .
" " An Experimental nquiry into the Heat given out by Human Body By .
MARCET , M.D. , F.R.S. , and FLORIS , F.C.S. Received March 10 , \mdash ; Read 1898 .
From tory University College , London .
Dr. Marcet 's calorimeter been fulIy described in the paper , the present conjoint authors now submitted themselver experiment , one of them remaining np in the chamber , usnaI for the space of an hour , while the other was engaged outsido regulate the temperature of the chamber and note the readings the thermometers .
When eathing was carried on inside the imeter , it migl be thougbt that the air of the amber became too full of or deficient in oxygen for the purposes of respiration .
Such , was not the case , and no discomforb whatever was experienced in tb course of an hour 's incarceration .
It is easy to calculate from a sumption of , say , grams of per hour that supposing tb calol'lmeter to be absolutely .-tigLt , a condition which was nc actually realised , would bo fall of oxygen , after one hou spent in tlIe calorimeter , equal to a reduction of pressure for 760 mm. to 668 mm. , and respond to an elevation about 7000 feet ( metres ) above the sea level .
Such an altilud vould ctainly not be trying to the respiration .
The experiment was carl'ied out follows in every instance : Previons to } the chamber the subject of the experimen sat in the atory to rest , in lllan instances taking temperature , sublingual , with a clinical thermometer .
the menntime a of ice varying between 10 lbs. .
( to kilograms ) , according to circumstances , was into blocks abou or 3 inches drameter , and placed in the ice where the disposod as n1ucb as sibls in a position to allow the air from the itator to circulate freely between them .
temporary receivel for the water the melting ice was to into the Heat given out by the Human .
243 soldered to the tube delivering the ice water , for which receiver of a capacity of over a litre was snbstituted on starting the in the chamber .
hen all was ready , the person under expel.iment stepped into calorimeter and sat down on a wooden chair .
Immediately wards the ice holder was hung up in the chamber to a strong fastened to the roof ; then the tube from upper agitator 1 connecbed with the ice holder , and the flask with a thermometer , lsly weighed , was substituted for the temporary small iver of the melted ice .
At that very instant the stop-watch was , ted to register the time spent in the chamber , the door was and screwed down , and the two itators w set in motion .
Tlight here be observed that the person in the calorimeter felt no , as the air from the lower itator was driven up behind him ' a rose-jet , and that from the upper agitator fell in front of on its exit from the ice holder .
Iudeed no sensation of cold was el.ienced , or any discomfort whatever , the temperature in the mber l'emailling exactly the same within few tenths of a degree tigrade ougbout the experiment .
In those cases where the 1 .
expired had to be collected ' analysis , this was done by means face-piece strapped to a cap fitting back of the head .
The -piece was supplied wit , a glass tube , which was taken between 1 lips and used for expiration , another tube served for .
nasal inspiration from outside of the chamber , without the lex.vention of any valves .
Fresh was thus inspired throu .
-.i nose and expired throug.h the method of breathlllg .
which we vere familial ' .
The com municated bh the external ough the walls of the chambel .
S , while the was connected at will eithel .
with bell-j or the en air .
The bell-jars were suspended in a way that the in the chamber never knew when he was breathing into the en air or into the air holders .
bell-jars in use , and ny cases an india-rubber bag , faced with oil-silk , was into 1vice , so as to allow of the collection of an increased volume exred air .
The volume of ' collected , though only including the a pired d from twenty minutes to half an hour , taken atintel'Yals rough the whole time , certainly ves an rate estlmat]0ll composition of all the breathed while in the meter , that the person in a perfect repose lring that time , except , perhaps , for a minute the amber .
On one occasion the whole of the air expired in one .
was ollected , and in that experiment it was found the volume air expired in half an hour , takell $t different of time , proportional to the volume expired in the whole hour .
244 Dr. .
Marcet and Mr. B. B. Floris .
The observer , whose duty it was to read the thermometers , up on a stool ready to wolk the regulators of the dynamos , and y ' constant attention the temperature of the metal of the copr chamber was not allowed to fall or rise beyond about nitial reading .
After an hour , measured to a second with the stop-watch , of the thermometers was taken at the same a sigl was made to the person in the chamber by showing him a light , he immediately closed the stopcock of the tube letting the mel I water into the flask .
By this means the water collected was out exactly in one hour .
the tators were stopped , and the under experiment fin let out .
As soon as the door was open , { .
temperature of the ice water in the flask was recorded .
The sublinoual temperature when required was again taken time , if ib ] not been determined in the last few minutes the stay in the chamber .
next process was to weigh the flask with the ice water thel'mometel\ldquo ; and by subtracting the weight of the empty flask thermometer , that of the melted ice was obtained .
In one houI experiment the water from the melted ice amounted to rather 1000 grams , but its weight varied on each occasion .
The counte in connection with the agitators were now read .
Tbis completed the data for the calcuIation of the calories covered in the chamber .
The calculabion , a very simple one , is trated in the ] lowing table , which gives the particulars of experlment taken at random:\mdash ; Illustration of the Observations and Calculations required in hxpcriment .
Two preliminary Test Experiments with Agifators to determine given out .
Upper agitator .
itator .
1st counters .
1 Initial , , Final reitdings 677,156 Number of . .
2nd counters 1 , 852,831 Number of evolutions . .
180 , Sum of revolutions found .
1st . . . . . . . . . .
1:3,813 12,527 Means . . .
Enquiry into the Heat given by the Human .
245 Experiment with Subject in Calorimeter .
Upper agitator .
Lower agitatol. .
Counters 13.3,791 13,244 : 11 , : , S55 Chambel. .
P.lf .
C. 4 .
4 .
4 .
15.62 4 .
15.28 4 .
15.74 4 .
' ference of extremes space .
C. C. 15.26 15.32 15.32 15.35 Time spent in calorimeter , one hour .
Weight of ice water , grams .
Temperature of water , C. found .
Calories .
Ice water Ice water 11,784 From air in annular space . . . . . . . . . .
From copper . . . . . . . .
air in chamber . .
38 Correction for itators Heat emitted in one hour , say , calories found 104 , number of calories bsol .
by the melting of 1 gram of The figures 5832 for copper , 214 for air of chamber , and of anllular ace are constants obtained by multiplying the individual weighrs by their col'l'Conding s heat .
246 Dr. W. Marcet and .
R. B. Floris .
Determination of Oxygen consumed or absorbed .
litres of air expired reduced ) in 26 minutes .
Per minute .
found . . . . . . . .
Surplus absorbed ( weight of llitre of O ) minutes grams absorbed per hour .
calories , corresponding to 1 gram sumed .
The first set of experiments was undertaken in order ascerttl whether in the course of an ] there is any variation in the : given out by the same person , and , with this object in view , the : mitted by each of us in turn was determined throughout the : and second half-hours pent in calorimetel .
It was found sary to in a -way cock into the tube delivering the from the melted ice into the flask ; three-way cock diverted stream at will inbo one or other of two flasks hanging to the leadino from the ice-holder .
The results obtained were as follow:\mdash ; Calories in two half-hotlrs in Huccession .
W. M. R. B. F. half-hour .
half-hom .
half-hour .
55,327 52,16 ] 49 , 128 53,812 Means Difference per cent. Difference per cent. decrease in second ] increase in second halfhour on first half-hour .
hour on first half-hour .
Total for the eleven expel.iments , per cent. increase in secon : half-houl .
( Calculation from total figul.es .
) Thereforc , in the case of W. M. , the mean of five experim ents adifferenco of only per cent. in the calories emitted during two cessive half-hours , while , in case of R. B. F. , the mean difference : nquiry into the Heat given out by the Human .
247 xperiments was only by per cent. The mean difference ( from figures ) the two persons in eleven experiments amounted per cent. , showing that practically the mean heat emitted was same in each of two consecutive half-hours .
There were , howences , though usually slight , in each of experiments )metimes an increase , sometimes a decrease\mdash ; the reason of which ifficulb to assign .
he lories given out by the persons tted upon taken generally between lunch and dinner , say at a mean time bout t hours after a full luncheon , and therefore under the lediate influence of food .
But towards the end of the inquiry a of experiments were made just before lunch , corrending with othel .
S made after lunch , in order to determine in a eral way the effect of a full mid-day meal on the of the body .
The mean of seventy-two expel'iments on four respectively 15 , 27 , 28 , and 69 , gave 102,907 calories -hour , varied from 80,639 to 137,078 .
In other words , the given out in one hour was such as would raise 102,907 of water by 1o centigrade ( from to ) .
he next point we submitted to enquiry was the relation , if any , the oxygen absorbed from the air breathed , and the calories tted at the same time .
he vgen absorbed was determined by ] the air expired 1 bhe person in the calorimeter , and estimating the and conin the expired air .
This was done by methods fully described previous papers ( by W. need not be further insisted .
We ound the method of breathing for collecting the air ired ( ation through nose and expiration through mouth ) be satisfactory in every way , the subjects for these experiments all used to this mode of breathing .
is important to observe at the outset that , while there were xt differences between the calories found for each perso ] ] , gen abso the air in every individual case did not ibit such mal.ked variations ; moreover , except a very , the absorbed failed to vary in proportion with the nber of calories emitted .
These experiments include the } number made , most of ence of a full , but few fasting , or the .
Of only bc expec.ted to give a of mean lorios cmitted by the amount of heat lvitl evel.ydili.ereut person , rent conditions as to food malty othol circumstances . .
LXIII .
figures for calories with an asterisk ( .orrespond to euts made he calorlmeter an overcoat on .
The effect of the increased clothing cient to infiuence the general means .
alories emitted in one hour corresponding R. B. F. lndcr experiment .
250 .
W. bIarcet and .
R. B. loris .
These lists include thirty-six experiments on three different in all of which the taken from the air , while in the chamber , was determined .
At the outset a striking similarity is observed between the means of the calories pr.oduced for 1 gram of oxygen absox.bed .
( Mean of 17 ) With .
M. that figure is . . . .
4042 , , R. B. F. , , . . .
4022 , , E. R. , , . .
, .
3916 It is , therefore , obvious that there is a definite relation of to effect in the absorption of towards the production of aIJlmal heat .
These figures must not be considered as final ; they show that undel similar cumstances relating to time of food , \amp ; c. , the mean calories produced gram of oxygen absorbed are the same for different persons , at all ents as far as can gathered from the three ects experimented upon ; and , moreovet , it may be concluded that the true figure closely 4000 ( small ] caiorles ) .
, from his experiments , ives 5 calorles for fram of oxygen exoeeds our figure to extent .
Tf the volume of oxygen absorbed from the air Yvas proporbionalto tho calories given out during the same time , then , by placing iu a tabulal folm the numbers the calories , beginning with nquiry into the Heat given out the Human Body .
251 ghest number and ending with the lowest , and also inscribing ( posite these figures those the oxygen absorbed in each ( rresponding experiment , it would be expected that the figures for tygen absorbed would follow in succession those for the calories , beginning with the highest and ending with the lowest .
owever , is far from being the case .
Thel'efore , except in a ry way , as shown by our means and under similar circur nces with reference to food , the oxygen taken the air es not produce heat the to amount absorbed .
this may be taken as a clear indication that the absorbed a given time is not a measure of the heat produced during that me time .
Should tables now be made of the in numerical order , ginning with the highcst , placing the for " " calories for oxygen absorbed\ldquo ; its respective ca , lories , a peculiar currence is observed .
Tt will be seen readily by a consideration of foregoing tables that if the calories found in one hour and ose calculaled for 1 gram oxygen absorbed be grouped three three ( or even two by ) , the calories vgen )sorbed decrease regularly together with the falling for the -calories ( so when taken two by two ) , and this takes place the case of three different persons , and cannot ) accidental .
It follows that 1 gram of oxygen absorbed from the is attended the emission of either dories , as extl'emes for one person , and for eithel L55 or 3433 calories , and again for a third either 4126 or 3:398 dories .
The readiest explanation of this phenomenon is the assumpou of a storage of oxygen in the tissnes , which is use of , though unaccounted for oxygen at the time .
Still , relation of the oxyg.en absorbed to the heat emitted remains le same , being as nearly as possible 4000 calories for 1 gram ygen absorbed under similar conditions .
This shows that whatever be the mode of action of the absorbed rygen it repeats itself in a genel.al way , if taken at similar periods ith eference to food , \amp ; c. There is a circumstance in these experiments which should be into account concerning the frequent change of temperature [ our bodies while in the calorimeter , as ascertained by bservations with a clinical thermometer .
The reached an Klreme of C. , though usually only or C. , but it much in diflerent experiments , while on some occftsions there no change , and even onceo1 twice a rise was obsel.ved .
fall ftempel'ature was thought at { irst to be due to the of ice in the chamber ; but the same effect was observed by taking .
M. 's sublingnal temperature while sitting quite quiet for hour 252 Dr. and Mr. .
B. Floris .
An out of the calorimeter , when a distinct and fall in the lingual temperaffire occurred to the extent of C. We looked carefully through the results obtained , in ascertain whether this cooling of the body while undsr had any appreciable iuence either on the heat emitted , or on oxygen absorbed , but failed to observe any phenomena which be ascribed to stlch a ; it must , however , be attended with S01 effect .
A few experiments made on bhe influence of food iu a way by comparing the heat given out in the calorimeter by the sar individual , shortly before , and one .
two hours after the midd .
meal , the meal consisting of a full allowance of meat , potato ; brea and a glass of beer .
The expel.imeats before luncheon are , ther , in a comparatively condition , and those after lunche may be looked upon as being under the infiuence of a full meal .
W. M. Per cent. Before lunch .
After lunch .
increase after lunch .
92 , 3.95 ( 90,844 87,314 fall ) 24.39 80,985 96,050 R. B. F. 99,309 8.53 116,874 117 , 131 .
R. 11.97 126,872 129,028 135,870 704 ( 118,087 121,868 ( 114 , 98,643 104,922 109,078 Fi .
F. 114,377 fall ) 110,495 fall ) 109,730 108,952 112,780 Enquiry into the Heat given out the Bod.y .
) out of nineteen experiments only three a fall in amount of heat emitted after lunch .
Of these three , one ( W. M. ) easily accounted for from bhe digestion of the person under ( periment being on day somewhat out of order , and very food being taken .
In the other instances , in which the ]abotory boy was in the calorimeber , be acknowledged finding it diffito sit quiet , and movement may easily account for the irregular sult .
It follows from these experiments that the rule is an increase in emission of heat from the body after a meal .
Finally it was of interest to ascertain how far the heat emitted by le body is in proportion to the weight of the body .
The following Jble shows clearly that this relation is subject to great tions ; l lightest person under experiment , also the youngest xteen years of age ) , gave out a mean amount of heat per kilo .
eight greatly exceeding all the others .
When the work connected with this paper was nearly completed , occurred to us that there were two important omissions in the nquiry .
The first was the neglect to take into account the heat lost rom the calorimeter by the air when it was collected for the other occasions the air was expired into the caloimeter , and therefore there was no loss of heat from that cause .
now made a few experiments , taking the temperature of the air xpired at its exit from the chamber .
The excess of this jure over that of the air inspired was used for calculating the heat ost , and the col.rection introduced where necessary .
This figure raried somcwhat for each person under experiment .
The secolld )mission was leaving the carbonic acid which might have collectod * Supposing the air expired was found on its exit from the to be C. higher than the air , tlnd this volume of air red bo litres in 25 minutes , this would give weight of of air , multiplied by the specifio heat of au ( 0.2375 ) and by 8 , the cxcess tennperature calories , for hour 6 lorics ) of calories , the thus lost would only amount to per ) Dr. W. Marcet and Mr. B. Floris .
in the calorimeter unaccounted for .
Some must be derived * the skin , and pel.haps some small quantity of air might possibly escaped from face- into the chamber .
The calorimeter was conveniently available for the } of the , which mi have collected in it , as the chamber perfectly closed , whatever minute there were being mn too small to .
allow of any diffusion out of the chamber .
This teSted experlmenbally the coursc of the present enquiry explrlng air into the bell-jars , while out of the , calorimeter ; afterwards the same pel.son entered the chamber and breathed it for forty minutes or an .
hour .
The mean of eight experimor gave figures for the and out of the cbamber exactty same .
* The determination of the in the air of the chamber ) hing the external air was made by putting on the on entering the calorimeter , and after the door was closed , rinsing dry flask ( holding about 6 ]itres ) with air the upper agitato this flask was then stopped with an india-rubber col.k , having a tul with a stopcock inserted through it .
After sixty minutes anoth , dry , full of fine , dry sand , was suddenly } ) tied of its tents , and closed with a cork similar to thab used with the oth ' flask .
determination of was made in each flask with standard solution of hydrate , by Pettenkofer 's method .
in the chamber was obtained by subtracting the weight volume ) of found in the chamber at the very beginning of th expel'imenb from the weight of the in the chamber the subject had remained an hour im it .
This varied somewha with the three pel.sons who submitted to experiment ; the value for each of us was used for the of the oxygen at ; this correction was , however , but small , varying from abou 1 to 3 per cent. of the in the air collected in th .
belI-jal The results obtained from the present enquiry may be summarise ' as follows : \mdash ; 1 .
The amoullt of heat given out from the human body lvher arspe minute Time fectingiu bambper minute.er Mins .
Secs .
181.5 3 176.1 176.0 214.6 200.1 194.7 187.9 200.2 into Heat given out )Human Body .
255 on two successive half-hotlrs found to be the same when the rans of the calories are taken , in each separate experi- 1 nt the emitted may vary to some extent .
The heat emitted by the same persoll , and the extent of ts variation is wider in some subjects than in others ; thus in 1 M. case the calories emitted in one hour from twenty-six experimts varied from 122,124 to 80,639 , or by per cent. of the lger ligure .
In the twenty-one experiments of R. B. F. they varied 106,839 to 80,985 , or by per cent. With .
R. , elevell eriments , from 1.37,078 to 111,754 , or by per cent. 3 .
As a fact irrespective of theory the mean number of calories from three different persons , under similar circumstances of , \amp ; c. , COl.responding to 1 of oxygen absorbed from the ; was the same , and can be stated in round llumbers at 4000 .
rd more experiments been done fasting , this figure would have a slight tendency to fall .
4 .
Although the calories per individual for 1 ) sorbed under similar cumstances of food , \amp ; c. , are the samo , still the experiments taken singly , the number of correspondto 1 oxygen absorbed , vary , and this in a regular way .
le greater the heat given out , the greater the calories produced gram oxygen , and vice .
Therefore , either a glven tlount of oxygen absorbed can produce differen qnantities of heat , the oxygen found as absorbed does not represent that to which heat is ; this second alternative appears the more probable .
5 .
The influence of a meal , as ascel.tained on three different rsons , is well marked .
Taking the midday meal , when mixed od is eaten , generally a good appetite , the calories mitted two hours after lunch an increase over out three or four hours after breakfast .
The excess varies in ( fferent ) persons , and ' to the and amount of food takell .
6 .
The calories emitted per kilo .
weight of the body are subject variations in different persons .
A few experiments were made the influence of clothing 011 the eat emitted , buIi we thought it best to that subject for a 1ture communication .

