An Intimation of divers Philosophical particulars , now undertaken and considered by several Ingenious and Learned men ; here inserted to excite others to join with them in the same or the like Attempts and Observations .
FIrst , we have notice given us , that at Paris the Excellent Signior Cassini hath lately detected again Spots in the Sun , of which none have been seen these many years , that we know of .
It is hoped that that learned Astronomer will shortly publish a Description of what he shall have observed of this kind .
Mean time we cannot but acquaint the Curious , that , as far as we can learn , the last observation in England of any Solar Spots , was made by our Noble Philosopher Mr. Boil , who , upon an occasional discourse of this Subject , was pleased to communicate what he had observed of this kind , as he found it registred in his Notes , viz. Friday , April 27 .
1660 .
about 8 of the clock in the Morning , there appeared a Spot in the lower limb of the Sun a little towards the South of its AEquator , which was entered about 1/ 40 of the Diameter of the Sun , it self being about 1/ 160 in its shortest Diameter , of that of the Sun ; its longest , about 1/ 40 of the same .
It disappeared upon Wednesday Morning ( May 9th ) though we saw it the day before about 10 in the morning to be near about the same distance from the West ward limb a little South of its aequator , that it first appeared to be from the East-ward-limb , a little South also of its aequator , It seemed to move faster in the middle of the Sun than towards the limb .
It was a very dark spot almost of a quadrangular form , and was enclosed round with a kind of duskish cloud , much in this form and in this proportion to the Spot .
We first observed this very same Spot both for figure , colour and bulk , to be re-enter 'd the Sun May 25th , when it seemed to be in a part of the same line it had formerly traced ; and was entered about 4/ 33 of its Diameter about 7 of the clock in the afternoon .
At the same time there appeared another Spot , which was just entered and appeared to be entered not above 1/ 132 part of the Sun 's diameter .
It appeared to be longest towards the North and South , and shortest towards the East and West .
There seemed to be dispersed about it divers small clouds here and there .
These Observations were made , as the Noble Observer told us , with an excellent Telescope , in the presence of divers Curious and Ingenious persons , one of whom was Mr. Hook .
And discoursing of the thoughts he had entertained touching the Effects of such Spots , he suggested this Inquiry , Whether they might not cause a considerable alteration both in the Body of the Sun it self , and in our Air and the Bodies in it upon their dissipation ?
Secondly , we understand , that at Paris the Royal Observatory , now a building for making Celestial Discoveries , is very far advanced , and will shortly be in a condition to be employed for the use intended ; whence we may expect a considerable advancement of the Astronomical Science .
In the same Edifice , which the said Observatory makes a part of , we are informed that there is , besides many other rooms fit for Philosophical uses and purposes , a very deep Cave , having an hundred threescore and ten steps of descent ; wherein many sorts of Experiments are intended to be made , being of that nature , that they require to be remote from the Sun-beams and the open Air ; such as are Thermometrical ones , and such as concern Refrigerations , Coagulations , Indurations , and Conservations of Bodies , and a thousand things more .
Thirdly , we hear , that the Learned Monsieur Mariotte is publishing two very desirable Discourses , the one of Vision ; upon which subject he hath discovered something new and considerable : the other of the Art of Levelling , wherein he delivers many remarkable particulars about Refraction , and the Errors , that may , upon the account thereof , be imposed upon men ; together with several New Instruments of Levelling exactly .
Fourthly , we find by Letters out of Germany , that the learned Physician Dr. Kornmannus , is printing a Book concerning the Tinctures or Essences of the Excretions of Infects , which having fed upon several herbs and flowers , yield such dungs , wherein the tincture , colour and virtue of these vegetables are to be found : Thus for example , he can extract a curiously red tincture out of Excrements of Worms that have fed upon Roses , &amp;c. Fifthly , we find by Letters out of Italy , that a very Ingenious person there , upon the consideration of what hath been lately intimated touching certain Experiments for finding out , whether there be a Circulation of Sap in Trees , resembling that of Blood in Animals ; Offers it to the consideration of Naturalists , Whether it be likely to find a place in Vegetables , whence the Sap may part , and whither it may return , such as is the Heart in Animals ; adding , that whereas Vegetables are always to put forth new branches , leaves , &amp;c. it seems to be sufficient for them , that there be a continual and plentiful course and supply of Juice , to thrust out every way , without any necessity of such a Circulation .
Sixthly , whereas it hath been more than once mentioned in these Papers ; * Mulierum testes esse Ovario analogos ; nec tantum in nuptis &amp; facundis Mulieribus , sed etiam in Virginibus esse Ovavera , &amp;c. We cannot but signify here , for further inquiry , that there hath been very lately made by two Physicians at Paris a dissection of a Cow , in cujus testiculis ova reperta fuerint , uti Kerkringius observasse se scripserat in Anthropogeniae suae Iehnographia ; and that there they intend to pursue this Inquiry , inviting others to make the same research .
Wherein since the learned Dr. Walter Needham , an English Physician , and a worthy Fellow of the R. Society , hath heretofore already been conversant to good purpose , it is here publicly wished , that he would make a further progress in the same ; plures institu* See Numb. 32 .
p 628 , and Numb. 70 .
p. 2136 .
instituendo dissectiones , catellarum imprimis valde juvenum , &amp;c. ad rei certitudinem majorem .
Seaventhly , from Germany we are informed , that in the University of Jena in Upper Saxony , one Mr. Weighelins , Professor of the Mathematicks there , hath invented several in genious Instruments and Engins ; As first , an Astronomical one , which he calls Astrodicticum , by the means whereof very many persons shall be able at one and the same time to behold one and the same Star .
Secondly , An exceeding great Globe of the World , capable of ten persons to fit in it all at once , and to behold the motions of the celestial Bodies , &amp;c. Thirdly , An odd Bridge , or a kind of Stairs , by which a man shall descend and yet really be raised upward , and going as 'twere upon a plain shall , from a lower , by gently subsiding , arrive to an upper story , &amp;c. Of these and other particulars , said to be in part already done , and in part designed by the said Mathematician , we hope we shall in time obtain a more satisfactory account .

