A Letter from Father Bourzes to Father Estienne Souciet , concerning the Luminous Appearance observable in the Wake of Ships in the Indian Seas , &amp;c. Taken from the Ninth Volume of Letters of the Missionary Jesuits .
Reverend Father , AS I was ready to embark for the Indies , I received your Letter , in which you desire me to allow some time for making Inquiries into Arts and Sciences , as far as the necessary Business of my Mission will permit me , and to communicate to you such Discoveries as I shall make .
I met with in this Voyage some Things which I believe would have been acceptable to you ; but wanting instruments , which you know are absolutely necessary to make any Observation with exactness , I was forced to content my self with such Observations only as I could make with my naked Eye , without any other Assistance .
I shall begin with a Phenomenon in Natural Philosophy , which has something new in it to those that never were at Sea ; and perhaps those that have been there , never observed it with sufficient Attention .
You have read what Philosophers say concerning those Sparkles of Light which appear in the Night time on the Surface of the Sea ; but you must observe at the same time , that they pass over this Phenomenon very slightly , or at least endeavour more to give a reason for it , that may be agreeable to their own Principles , than to explain it as it really is .
Before they undertake to account for the Wonders of Nature , in my Opinion they ought to enquire very well into all Particulars ; which I thought necessary to do on this present Subject .
I. When the Ship ran apace , we often observed a great Light in the Wake of the Ship , or the Water that is broken and divided by the Ship in its Passage .
Those that did not view it nearly , often attributed it to the Moon , the Stars , or the Lanthorn at the Stern ; as I did my self , when I first perceived it ; But having a Window that looked directly down upon it , I was soon undeceived ; especially when I saw it appear more bright , when the Moon was under the Horizon , the Stars covered with Clouds , and no Lights in the Lanthorn , or any other Light whatsoever cast upon the Surface of the Water .
II .
This Light was not always equal ; some Days it was very little , others not at all ; sometimes brighter , others fainter ; sometimes it was very vivid , and at other times nothing was to be seen .
III .
As to its Brightness , perhaps you may be surprised when I tell you that I could easily read by it , tho ' I was 9 or 10 Foot above it from the Surface of the Water ; as I did particularly on the 12th of June and the 10th of July 1704 .
But I must inform you that I could read only the Title of my Book , which was in large Letters : Yet this seemed incredible to those I told it to ; but you may believe it , and I assure you that it is a real Truth .
IV .
As to the Extent of this Light , sometimes all the Wake appeared Luminous to 30 or 40 Foot distant from the Ship ; but the Light was very faint at any considerable distance .
V. Some Days one might easily distinguish in the Wake such Particles as were Luminous from those that were not : At other times there was no difference .
The Wake seemed then like a River of Milk , and was very pleasant to look on ; as it appeared particularly on the 10th of July 1704 .
VI .
At such times as we could distinguish the bright Parts from the others , we observed that they were not all of the same Figure : Some of 'em appeared like Points of Light ; others almost as large as Stars as they appear to the naked Eye .
We saw some that looked like Globules , of a Line or two in Diameter ; and others like Globes as big as ones Head .
Oftentimes these Phosphori formed themselves into squares , of 3 or 4 Inches long , and one or two broad .
Sometimes we could see all these different Figures at the same time ; and particularly on the 12th of June , the Wake of the Vessel was full of large Vortices of Light and these oblong Squares , which I have been speaking of .
An other Day , when our Ship sailed slowly , the Vortices appeared and disappeared again immediately like flashes of Lightning .
VII .
Not only the Wake of a Ship produces this Light , but Fishes also in swimming leave behind 'em a luminous Tract ; which is so bright that one may distinguish the largeness of the Fish , and know of what Species it is .
I have sometimes seen a great many Fishes playing in the Sea , which have made a kind of artificial Fire in the Water that was very pleasant to look on .
And often only a Rope placed cross-wise will so break the Water , that it will become luminous .
VIII .
If one takes some Water out of the Sea , and stirs it never so little with his Hand in the dark , he may see in it an infinite Number of bright Particles .
IX .
Or if one dips a piece of Linen in Sea Water , and twists or wrings it in a dark Place , he shall see the same thing ; and if he does so , tho ' it be half dry , yet it will produce abundance of bright Sparks .
X. When one of the Sparkles is once formed , it remains a long time ; and if it fix upon any thing that is solid , as for instance on the side or edge of a Vessel , it will continue shining for some Hours together .
XI .
It is not always that this Light appears , tho ' the Sea be in great Motion ; nor does it always happen when the Ship sails fastest : Neither is it the simple beating of the Waves against one another that produces this Brightness , as far as I could perceive : But I have observed that the beating of the Waves against the Shore has sometimes produced it in great plenty ; and on the Coast of Brazil the Shore was one Night so very bright , that it appeared as if it had been all on Fire .
XII .
The Production of this Light depends very much on the Quality of the Water ; and , if I am not deceived , generally speaking , I may assert , other circumstances being equal , that the Light is largest when the Water is fattest and fullest of Foam ; for in the main Sea the Water is not every where equally pure ; and sometimes if one dips Linen into the Sea , it is clammy when it is drawn up again .
And I have often observed , that when the Wake of the Ship was brightest , the Water was more fat and glutinous ; and Linen moistened with it produced a great deal of Light , if it were stirred or moved briskly .
XIII .
Besides , in sailing over some Places of the Sea , we find a Matter or Substance of different Colours , sometimes red , sometimes yellow .
In looking at it , one would think it was Saw-dust : Our Sailors say it is the Spawn or Seed of Whales .
What it is , is not certain ; but when we draw up Water in passing over these Places , it is always viscous and glutinous .
Our Mariners also say , that there are a great many heaps or Banks of this Spawn in the North ; and that sometimes in the Night they appear all over of a bright Light , without being put in Motion by any Vessel or Fish passing by them .
XIV .
But to confirm farther what I say , viz. That the Water , the more glutinous it is , the more it is disposed to become luminous , I shall add one particular which I saw myself .
One Day we took in our Ship a Fish which some thought was a Boneta .
The inside of the Mouth of the Fish appeared in the Night like a burning Coal ; so that without any other Light , I could read by it the same Characters that I read by the Light in the Wake of the Ship .
It 's Mouth being full of a viscous Humour , we rubbed a piece of Wood with it , which immediately became all over luminous ; but as soon as the moisture was dried up , the Light was extinguished .
These are the Principal Observations that I made upon this Phenomenon : And I leave you to examine if all these Particulars can be explained by the System of such as assert , that the Principle of this Light consists in the Motion of a subtle Matter , or Globules , caused by a violent agitation of different kinds of Salts .
I shall add next a word or two concerning Marine Rain-bows , which I observed after a great Tempest off of the Cape of Good-Hope .
The Sea was then very much tossed , and the Wind carrying off the tops of the Waves , made a kind of Rain , in which the Rays of the Sun painted the Colours of a Rain-bow .
It is true the common Iris has this advantage over ours , that its Colurs are more lively , distinct , and of longer Extent .
In the Marine Iris we could distinguish only two Colours , viz. a dark Yellow on that side next the Sun , and a pale Green on the opposite side : The other Colours were too faint to be distinguished .
But in recompense for this , these Iris 's are in a greater Number ; one may see 20 or 30 of 'em together ; they appear at Noon-day , and in a Position opposite to that of the common Rain-bow , that is to say , their Curve is turned as it were towards the bottom of the Sea .
Tho ' in these long Voyages one sees nothing but Water and Sky , yet each of 'em affords such Wonders in Nature , as may well employ the time of those that have Knowledge enough to discover them .
Lastly , to put an end to these Observations upon Light , I shall add only one more , concerning Exhalations in the Night , that form in the Air a long Tract of Light .
These Exhalations make a Tract of Light much larger in the Indies than they do in Europe .
I have seen two or three that I should have taken for real Rockets : They appeared near the Earth , and cast a Light like that of the Moon some Days after her Change .
They fall slowly , and in falling make a Curve Line ; especially one which I saw on the main Ocean , at a great distance off at Sea , on the Coast of Malabar .
I am , &amp;c. De DOURZES .

