8 Mr. C. B. Lockwood .
The Arteries of the Abdomen .
[ Dec. 11 .
III .
" On the Development of the Arteries of the Abdomen and their Relation to the Peritoneum .
" By C. B. Lock-wood .
Communicated by W. S. Savory , F.R.S. Received November 18 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) The paper begins by explaining that it records an endeavour to elucidate the course and relations of the abdominal blood-vessels upon developmental grounds .
The earliest stages of the development of the midgut and its mesentery are first 'described ; and it is shown that vessels extend at very frequent intervals from the dorsal aorta to the intestine , reaching the latter by way of the mesentery .
The development of the stomach is mentioned , and the gastric artery is identified as one of the original arteries of the mesentery .
The effects which the various alterations in the position of the stomach have upon its blood supply are discussed , and are considered to account for peculiarities in the course of the gastric artery , The splenic artery is reviewed next , and it is explained how both it and the spleen are developed between the layers of the mesogastrium ; evidence is adduced to show that the vessel , even in the adult , reaches its destination by passing through the mesogastrium , and it is maintained that this fact determines the relations of the artery to the greater and lesser cavities of the peritoneum .
Next the very long arterial loops of the great omentum are discussed ; as the omentum is nothing but .
the elongated mesogastrium it is argued that they represent the original vessels of that fold .
The hepatic artery comes next , and the protrusion of the liver from the midgut is described , and afterwards the development of the lesser omentum .
The hepatic artery is shown to be one of the original arteries of the mesentery of that part of the gut from which the liver grew .
This fact is shown to explain the relations of the vessel to the peritoneum and foramen of Winslow , and also it is made uSe of to explain certain abnormalties of the artery .
It is pointed out that as the original function of the hepatic artery in the embryo is to supply the bowel s6 it continues to afford branches to it in the adult .
The arteries of the small intestine and pancreas are reviewed .
With regard to the latter it -is explained how the organ is developed from the duodenum , and extends along the mesoduodenum into the mesogastrium where it impinges upon the spleen and its artery ; this , it is argued , accounts for the sources of its blood supply .
The manner in which the pancreas becomes situated behind the peritoneum instead of between the layers is afterwards attributed to the unfolding of the peritoneum between the mesogastrium and the transverse mesocolon ( i.e. } the original 1884.1 On Limnocodium Sowerbii , Allman and 9 mesentery of the transverse colon before it becomes related to the omentum ) .
The colic arteries are briefly dismissed with the exception of the middle ; this vessel is discussed at greater length owing to the doubts which exist concerning the development and .anatomy of the transverse mesocolon .
An attempt is made to refute the adhesion theory advocated by Haller , and to explain how it is quite possible for the mesocolon to consist of two layers instead of four .
In conclusion the following principles are deduced :\#151 ; First .
That the arteries of the abdomen , including the splenic and hepatic , were originally derived from the dorsal aorta for the supply of the midgut .
Second .
That they reach their destinations by passing through the mesentery .
Third .
That they participate in all the changes the mesentery undergoes .
Fourth .
That if an organ is developed in the mesentery or from the gut , it will obtain part at least of its blood " supply from the vessels of the mesentery or gut , and that these will conform to the preceding rules .
It is finally remarked that although these observations have only been applied to the human subject , yet they appear so simple and so likely to be true that it is probable that they have a rdueh wider applicability .
IV* " On the Occurrence of a Hydroid Phase of Limnocodium Sowerbii , Allman and Lankester .
By Alfred Gibbs Bourne , Assistant Professor of Zoology in University College , London .
Communicated by E. Ray Lankester , M.A. , F.R.S. Received December 8 , 1884 .
It is now four and a-half years since the Medusas of Limnocodium were discovered by Mr. Sowerby , in the Victoria tank in the gardens 'Of the Royal Botanic Society , at Regent 's Park .
Since that time Professor Lankester has continued to make observations and experiments , in which I have assisted , with the view of elucidating their life-history and the conditions of their somewhat anomalous occurrence .
" We discovered , however , nothing which threw any light upon the subject .
On November 27th we had an opportunity of seeing the tank at the Botanical Gardens , immediately after the withdrawal of the water , and I then collected and examined at Professor Lankester s request a large quantity of the sediment and portions of various roots and other submerged objects .

