9 .
" On the Structure of the Dental Tissues of Marsupial Animals , and more especially of the Enamel .
" By John Tomes , Esq. Communicated by Dr. Grant , F.R.S. The author of this communication , after examining microscopically the teeth of many marsupial animals taken from the majority of the families that make up the order Marsupialia , finds that they possess a structural character by which they may be distinguished from other mammalian teeth , subject only to one of two exceptions ; in which exceptions , however , the teeth are small and may readily be distinguished from marsupial by their external character .
They are the teeth of the Hyrax Capensis , the British Shrews , and the molar teeth of the Jerboa .
The author states , that so far as he has had opportunities of examination , the teeth of the various species may also be distinguished , the one from the other .
He points out , for instance , that , on comparison , the teeth of Dasyurus ursinus may be distinguished from the D. macrourus .
The peculiar characteristic of marsupial teeth exists in the continuation of the dentinal tubes into the enamel ; so far as the author has investigated them , he finds but one exception , and that in the Wombat , the representative of the rodents in the marsupial order .
This creature , he finds , has teeth that are nearly allied in structure as well as external form to the teeth of rodents , and more especially to the Hare and Rabbit .
The author states , that he has observed that the dentinal tubes in the human and other teeth are sometimes continued for a short distance into the enamel .
This he considers a rudimentary condition which is fully developed in the marsupial teeth .
The author observes that the dentinal and enamel pulp become firmly united to each other previous to the commencement of calcification in either , and that it is highly probable that the linear columns of the two pulps are joined end to end , and that the columns of the enamel pulp so joined become developed into tubes instead of into solid enamel fibres .
He considers this the more probable , as he has observed that the enamel fibres in an early stage of development are partially tubular in the teeth of several animals whose enamel fibres are ultimately solid .
The teeth described and figured are those of theMacropus giganteus .
Petaurus sciureus .
Hypsiprymnus penicillatus .
Dasyurus macrourus .
minor .
ursinus .
Phalangista vulpina .
Thylacinus cynocephalus .
Phascolomys Wombat .
Didelphis virginiana .
Petaurus taguanoides .
The author considers that the facts stated in his paper justify two conclusions of a general character : first , that the existence of prolonged and fully-developed tubes in the enamel , continuous with those of the subjacent dentine , is common to the great majority , if not all , of the marsupial animals , excepting the Wombat ; and , secondly , that the enamel and dentine are so closely related , that they should be regarded as modifications of each other , rather than as tissues of a wholly different nature .

