1880 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
On the Spectrum of Carbon .
461 were absent , and from the fact that the mixed product ( for only a portion of the 14 mgrms .
was clear diamond ) contains nitrogen , I am inclined to believe that it is by the decomposition of a nitrogenous body , and not the hydrocarbon , that the diamond is formed in this reaction .
The experiments are , however , too few , and the evidence too vague , to draw any conclusions , as there are even very few negative experiments from which anything can be learned , most of the results being lost by explosion .
I intend , when my other work\#151 ; which I laid aside for the diamond experiments\#151 ; is finished , to begin a series of experiments on the decompositions of carbon compounds by metals , to find whether a more easily controlled reaction may not be discovered .
VII .
" Further Note on the Spectrum of Carbon .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 11 , 1880 .
The preliminary discussion of a considerable number of photographs of the spectra of various carbon compounds has brought to light a relationship which I think may be worthy of notice in the Proceedings ; it was noticed orally in connexion with the paper read before the Society on April 29th .
A comparison of the photographs of the various carbon compounds .observed under various conditions enabled us to isolate the lines in the blue and ultra-violet portions of the spectrum ( wave-lengths 4300\#151 ; 3800 ) .
Tn this manner the constant lines seen in the photographs of the spectra of CC14 , C10H8 , ON , CHI3 , CS3 , C02 , CO , \amp ; c. , have been mapped , and the coincident lines and flutings thus marked .
The phenomena thus seen with more or less constancy are a blue line , with a wave-length of 4266 ; a set of blue flutings , extending from 4215 to 4151 ; and another set of ultra-violet flutings , which .extend from 3885 to 3843 ( all approximate numbers ) .
Eia .
1 .
Action of three different temperatures on a hypothetical substance , assuming three stages of complete dissociation .
In a photograph of the spectrum of the electric arc ( with a weak 462 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
On the Spectrum of Carbon .
[ May 27 battery ) from carbon poles in an atmosphere of chlorine , the blue flutings alone are visible , while , when the spark is similarly photographed , the ultra-violet flutings and the blue line ( 4266 ) are also visible , while the blue flutings become fainter .
From this we may assume , in accordance with the working hypothesis of a series of different temperature furnaces , as set forth in the paper of December , 1878 ( see fig. 1 ) , that the different flutings and the line correspond to different temperature spectra , the blue flutings to the lowest and the blue line to the highest temperature , while the ultra-violet flutings occupy an intermediate position .
Fie .
2 .
Spectra of the hypothetical substance in intermediate furnaces , assuming that the vapours are not completely dissociated .
Furnace A Inter- ( * mediate 1 ^ Furnace B Inter- C* mediated ^ Furnace C Highest temp. According to this working hypothesis , there should be a series of heat-levels forming a perfect gradation between the spectrum which contains the blue line alone and that which contains the blue flutings-alone ( fig. 2 ) .
In comparing the spectra of carbon under different conditions , I find this to be true .
The blue line never appears in conjunction with the blue flutings , unless the ultra-violet flutings are also present .
In other words , the highest and the lowest hypothetical temperature spectra are never visible together without the spectrum of the intermediate hypothetical temperature .
But this is not all .
By placing the spectra of the substances at different heat-levels , so to speak , I am enabled to construct a diagram which not only indicates the mere presence or absence of the lines and their relative intensities , but shows that there exists a perfect gradation between the spectrum which contains the line alone and that which contains the blue flutings alone ( fig. 3 ) .
I would point out that there is nothing theoretical in this diagram .
All the heat-levela Presents .
1880 .
] depicted are copied from photographs of carbon under the conditions indicated , and theory has merely enabled me to arrange them .
Fig. 3 .
The photographed spectra of some carbon compounds .
Spark in Highest temp. Spark CO. Arc in Cl ( B ) .
Lowest temp. This map I submit , therefore , bears out the hypothesis of differences of temperature indicated above , for it is seen that , while the blue line gradually thins out , the ultra-violet flutings appear first and grow in intensity .
As these increase , the blue flutings become visible , and further as the latter augments and the line disappears , the ultraviolet flutings gradually die out altogether .
It is philosophical to infer from these observations not only that the line and flutings in question are produced by carbon , but that the blue line ( 4266 ) , since it is visible at the highest temperature , corresponds to the most simple molecular grouping we have reached in the experiments , and the flutings to others more complex .
Presents , May 13 , 1880 .
Transactions .
Barnsley :\#151 ; Midland Institute of Mining Engineers .
Transactions , Yol .
VII .
Part 49 .
8vo .
Barnsley1880 .
The Institute .
Graz:\#151 ; Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fur Steiermark .
Mittheil-ungen .
Jahrg 1879 .
8vo .
Graz 1880 .
Das Chemische Institut der K.-K .
Universitat Graz von Leopold von Pebal .
4to .
Wien 1880 The Association .
Jena :\#151 ; Medicinisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft .
Denk- schriften .
Band II .
Heft 4 .
4to .
Jena 1880 .
The Society .

