260 Dr. G. W. Royston-Pigott .
Observations , \amp ; c. ( continued ) .
Paris 1879 .
Supplement au Catalogue .
8vo .
Paris 1880 Pilot de la Mancbe : C6tes nord de France , Tome I 8v Paris 1880 .
And thirty Charts and Plans .
Rangoon :\#151 ; Report on the Irrawady River .
By R. Gordon .
Fom* Parts , folio .
Rangoon 1879-80 .
The Auth\#174 ; Righi ( Augusto ) Contribuzioni alia Teoria della Magnetizzazione dell ' Acciaio .
4to .
Bologna 1880 .
The Author Savery ( Tho. ) Navigation Improved : Or , the Art of Rowing Ships of all Rates , in Calms , With a more easy , swift , and steady Motion than Oars can .
4to .
London 1698 .
[ Reprint .
J Mr. R. B. Prosser .
Wartmann ( Auguste-Henry ) Reeherches sur l'Enchondrone , son Histologie et sa Genese .
8vo .
Geneve et Bale 1880 .
The Author .
Williamson ( Benjamin ) , F.R.S. An Elementary Treatise on the Integral Calculus .
8vo .
London 1880 .
The Author .
Zollner ( Johann C. F. ) Transcendental Physics .
Translated by C. C. Massey .
8vo .
London 1^80 .
Mr. " W. " FT .
Harrison* " Microscopical Researches in High Power Definition .
" By G. W. Royston-Pigott , M.A. , M.D. Cantab .
, F.R.S. Received May 23 , 1879 .
Read June 19 .
[ The portion between square brackets received November 20 .
j Part I. [ Plates 3 and 4 .
] In the present communication it is intended to advert to the subjects\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Minimum visibility .
( 2 .
) The effects of excessive angular aperture in obliterating minute molecular structure .
( 3 .
) Minute measurement and a micrometer gauge .
( 1 .
) Minimum Visibility .
Spider-lines miniatured down to the fourteenth part of the hundred-thousandth of an inch have been made distinctly visible to ordinary good eyesight under proper microscopical manipulation .
The question then arose whether an actual thing so small as the millionth of an inch could be descried in the microscopic field of view .
According to recent researches , it would appear from formulae derived from the undulatory theory of light , that brilliant disks are developed from points of light which vary inversely in diameter with the increase Microscopical Researches in High Power Definition .
261 of angular aperture of the objective employed , and directly as the svave-length of the kind of light employed.* Professor Helmholtz and Professor Abbe have independently arrived at this beautiful law .
And Professor Helmholtz cautiously states , however , there may be some conditions which may modify this law .
It follows from this principle that thin brilliant lines of light can be best separated by glasses of the highest angular aperture ; and the separating power can be measured by the sine of the semi-aperture .
w for wave-length we may thus tabulate them ( when ^X , = 100,000 ) :\#151 ; Aperture .
180 .
160 .
140 .
100 .
60 .
40 ... 20 .
15 .
10 .
5 .
1 .
j , 2 * The Values of e for Different Apertures .
( \#171 ; , ) the limit of proximity of bright lines or disks .
... ... ^ ... .
, ... ... ... .
100,000th of an inch .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
98,480th " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
93,970th " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
76,600th " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
50,000th ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
34,200th ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
17,300th , , ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
13,000th ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 8,700th ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 4,360th " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
870th , , ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
436th " Such values as these have accordingly been generally accepted as limits to the resolvability of close lines with objectives of given apertures .
Further , it is said that lines drawn at the rate of a hundred thousand to the inch represent the limit of microscopic visibility .
In a paper on this subject by the author it has been shown that a bright space enclosed between two spider-lines , miniatured so as to iform a bright interval ^-3oVd o\gt ; was distinctly visible , whilst the webs actually were about the -ewooan(l toVo 'f an inch in thickness .
J Under these circumstances , it was interesting to determine whether 2 .
sin a a = wave-length ; a = semi-angular aperture ; s the distance between the centres of the disks in contact .
t Sir John Herschel estimates the wave-lengths as follows , in parts of an inch\#151 ; X ... ... Green ... ... ... ... ... .
47,560th .
X ... ..Intermediate ... ... ... ... 49,320th .
X ... ..Blue ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
51,110th .
In round numbers , for bright blue illumination , X = z~GqGT\gt ; * t " Proc. Camb .
Phil. Soc. , " yol .
iii , p. 217 .
Dr. G. W. Royston-Pigott .
real objects could be detected by the microscope of the surprising degree of attenuation represented by the millionth .
For this purpose a long search was instituted for many months , both for the finest attainable defining powers and for suitable objects .
Minute mercurial particles have appeared to furnish very interesting evidence .
If these be very finely smashed with a small piece of watch-spring , the experiments will be promoted by inserting a minute drop of petroleum beneath the " cover , " which should be very thin and clean ( fig. 9 ) .
A reflex illuminator is then used to converge rays downwards through the objective upon the preparation .
The most extraordinary minute disks ( in a darkened room ) may be then observed ( of a circular form chiefly ) .
Some of them are irregular , and upon some of them will be detected clusters of the most wonderful degree of smallness , consisting of minute black points , visible with a power of 1,000 diameters .
And what is so surprising is the entire absence of any diffraction effects at the edges of these black points .
For convenience of ready reference , I have found micrometer spiderlines of service for comparative estimation .
There are three thicknesses carefully measured:\#151 ; No. 1 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1- 5,000th of an inch .
No. 2 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1- 8,000th " No. 3 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1-10,000th Comparing these black particles floating on the surface of the mercury with the apparent diameter of the thinnest spider-line , some of them appeared decidedly smaller .
This observation has been confirmed by several persons to whom they were exhibited .
Under 1,000 diameters the particle was magnified just one hundred times in the micrometric focus .
It then appeared less than the spider-line xo-^q-q of an inch thick .
Its real diameter was therefore less than the xtro fhi\#174 ; magnitude , or less than the millionth of an inch , a microscopic unit which I propose here to represent by in .
Under a power of 2,000 diameters the finest spider-line would represent the quantity \ ttl .
The accompanying drawing fairly represents the appearance of the spider-lines seen on a dark field when mercurial particles , as already described , are examined with the micrometer under a power of 1,000 ( Plate 3 , fig. 9 ) .
( The webs appear too coarse in the plate .
) A positive eye-piece utterly spoils the finest defining powers , and a Huyghenian is generally substituted.* The very beautiful phenomena observed by means of brilliant illumination of these minute mercurial disks , flattened by pressure or * Definition may be further improved by substituting a crossed lens for the field** and an achromatic magnifier for the eye-lens .
Microscopical Researches in High Power Definition .
263 moving freely in the fluid , I propose to describe in another portion of the present research .
Suffice it to say , that they fairly and surprisingly imitate the starry lustre of a midnight sky\#151 ; the Milky Way and the Various phenomena of the closest double stars.* They display too under the finest attainable amplification the most accurate diffraction rings I have ever witnessed , and as such give admirable indications of quality iand correction in the lenses employed .
In this case floating mercurial molecules , f uncompressed , reflect astonishingly minute focal images .
From these observations the conclusiou may safely be drawn that real objects of unsuspected minuteness may be microscopically displayed , as well as minute miniature images , such as I have elsewhere described .
J There is only one objection to this result .
It may , perhaps , be said that bright diffraction diminishes the apparent diameter of these black points .
But they may be observed almost touching each other .
The great difference in diffraction in the case of black particles seen on a flat illuminated disk of mercury , and black particles seen by transmitted light , so soon as the objects are illuminated from beneath , is most striking .
Besides this , continued observations of another kind confirm the conclusion arrived at .
The question of the minimum visible regarded as visual angle is of equal importance in telescopic as in microscopic researches , and is well illustrated by the appearance of minute stars in large telescopes of great excellence .
There the actual angular aperture is infinitesimally small , as the rays enter the instrument in a state of parallelism .
As , however , an object may be supposed to move up towards the instrument , the angular aperture gradually assumes a tangible quantity .
For instance , a fly 's foot viewed with Lord B-osse 's gigantic reflector of 6 feet diameter , formed an angular aperture of 5 ' 44 " , the object being 60 feet distant .
At a certain point , as the focus is shortened , a telescope becomes a long focus microscope .
The instruments are , indeed , convertible .
A very long focussed microscope is in reality a shortened telescope .
At this point the laws of vision apply identically , and the angular aperture is the same for each .
The question , then , of vision in the microscope , when only small aperture is engaged as in the telescope , may aptly be illustrated by minute astronomical observations .
The eye , too , engages a near object at a small angular aperture : the pupil is then the base , and the object the apex of an isosceles triangle measuring the angular aperture , as much perhaps as a couple of degrees in short sight , but infinitesimally small as in the telescope when directed to a star .
The * Great pains were taken to secure brilliant illumination in a dark room .
t These very minute mercurial globules move freely , as though floating .
t " Phil. Trans. , " 1870 ; " Month .
Jour .
Roy .
Mic .
So .
, " " Testing Objectives by Miniatures of Mercurial Globules , " vol.i , 1875 ; " Limits of Vision , " vol. i and vol. ii , 1876 .
Dr. G. W. Roy ston-Pigott .
limit of visibility measured by visual angle is reached , equally by the eye-lens of a microscope or telescope , or by a simple magnifying glass , when the object subtends too small an angle to be sensible to the retina.* Both instruments require identical eye-pieces .
( Two seconds of arc is the limit in general of human vision .
) Comparing , then , the minimum visible in both instruments , and beginning with the telescope , it may be urged that the spurious disks of the minutest stars visible , such as the 17th or 20th magnitude , must subtend an exceedingly small visual angle .
It is then fair to inquire under what visual angle such disks can be glimpsed in an eye-piece , used indifferently in either microscopef or telescope .
Great loss of light in defining these minute points is prevented by very accurate curvature in a reflecting mirror .
J Accordingly the Uranian satellites have been seen in an 18-inch silver glass reflector .
The extreme minuteness of these bodies is illustrated as follows : \#151 ; A double star between ( 31 and / 32 Capricorni may be discovered whose components are of the 16th and 17th magnitude .
Yet Sir J. Herschel declares , that in comparison with the Uranian satellites , these two minute stars are splendid objects .
The visual angle at which these satellites are seen in Calver 's 18-inch mirror must be exceedingly small indeedS ( see mercurial double stars , fig. 9 ) .
Sir John Herschel records an extremely fine observation of the double star E2 , composed of two minute equal stars nearly as small as the 9th magnitude ; seen at the Cape with a 20-feet reflector armed with a 24-inch mirror:\#151 ; " Charmingly divided with 320 ; the disks , like two grains of * * * S * The spurious disks of stars of excessive minuteness are very much smaller than those of the larger kind .
But the usual mathematical expression for this size is independent of star magnitude , and is in this respect incomplete .
Such disks are therefore matters of observation , and their size in some degree conjectural .
f The mercurial illuminated star disks are here alluded to .
J The same economy of light is secured in microscopic object-glasses of great ' perfection , which disperse the otherwise inevitable white fog of spherical aberration .
The visibility of .
these Uranian satellites in Calver 's 18-inch silver glass mirror is doubtless due to a similar cause .
S Compare this with the satellites of Saturn , 280,000,000 distant:\#151 ; ; diameter , 500 miles ; visual angle , 0"'85 ; magnitude , 12 .
is reckoned mag- nitude 13 ; / Enceladus , 15 ; Mimas and Hyperion , 17 .
If the law could be applied , that the light being the same , visibility varies as the square of the diameter , and the next magnitude is half the magnitude preceding , the visual angles subtended by the Saturnian satellites might be guessed at with a power of 500 :\#151 ; Rhea .
Dione .
Tethys .
JEnceladus .
Mimas and Hyperion .
Magnitude ... ... 10th 12th 13th 15th 17th " Visual angle ... .
160/ / 67 " 4/ 7 " 16 And this very nearly agrees with the limits assigned .
Microscopical Researches in High Power Definition .
265 mustard seed , separated by one-third the diameter of either .
according to Struve , but at least per vicince : dist. between centres 2-3rds of a sec."* Recurring again to the law of brilliant disks in the microscope diminishing in diameter with the increase of objective angular aperture , I beg to call attention to the observation that in examining miniatures reduced 1,000 times , the details of these miniatures appeared 'entirely free from diffraction effects so long as the light was subdued .
But the instant the sun shone every reflecting point or polished surface became entirely disguised , concealed , or obliterated in its details by the strong diffractions.f It is on this account that mild daylight observations from light received from a white cloud have been found so serviceable in minute research as already described .
Unfortunately , the attainment of the most delicate microscopic * From these data , if 6x be diameter of each , 2x is the dividing space or " black division , " so that 3x + 2x + 3a ?
= f " .
Whence 6a ?
or diameter of disk 2x or division =\#163 ; // .
Hence the angle subtended by either disk with power 320 , 0 = 320 xf = 160 " .
The angle subtended by dividing black line , 0 = 32Oxi , , = 53 " .
The last result corresponds to a black line 1-400,000th of an inch magnified 1,000 times in the field of the microscope .
A short table is here inserted for reference .
If the millionth of an inch be taken as the microscopic unit of reference ( m ) , and a particle or line of this size be magnified 1,000 times , it will subtend to the eye of the observer , as an image 10 inches distant , an angle ten times greater than the human limit , viz.:\#151 ; 20/ /,6265 .
Diameter of object .
Yisual angle .
Power .
1-10,000,000th n 2 1,000 1- 1,000,000th 20* 1- 500,000th 41 1- 400,000th 51* 1- 300,000th 69 1- 200,000th 103 1- 100,000th 206 1- 50,000th - 412* 1-1,000,000th 41 2,000 1-1,000,000th 60 2,500 t See u Circular Solar Spectra , " by the writer , u Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 21 , p. 426 Dr. G.W. Royston-Pigott .
research is beset with many difficulties and variable factors , some of which may easily be overlooked or even unsuspected .
As nearly all organic tissues teem more or less with minute mole-cules , their variable behaviour and optical appearances have received close attention for many years , and I have concluded that__ A. \#151 ; A refracting molecule changes its appearance and phenomena according to the nature of the fluid by which it is surrounded also with the fluid in which the objective may be immersed.* B. \#151 ; It changes also , in an extraordinary manner , according to the angular aperture of the objective employed , according to the refractions of the media , and the direction of illumination and the parallelism or degree of convergence or divergence of the illuminating pencil transmitted .
C. \#151 ; Other interesting factors are the residuary aberrations of the compounding lenses of observation and the greater or less intensity of diffraction phenomena introduced by the mode of illumination .
In a short paper , it will be convenient partly to deal with these questions as they arise in the experiments rather than seriatim .
( 2 .
) Excessive Angular Aperture considered .
The principal and chief , I may say the most valuable , feature in the appearance of a refracting molecule is the extraordinary variability of the blackness and thickness of the marginal annulus .
This thickness and consequent visibility is dependent on the value of the refraction into the given media , and the angular aperture of microscopic observation : partially also upon the situation of the focal point of the lenticular illumination .
Example 1.\#151 ; A glass spherule ( 0"'l diameter ) is examined with a pocket lens .
An intensely black broad ring is seen against the light .
The same black ring is visible in bubbles frequenting plate glass in windows .
The angular aperture of the pupil of the eye is about a degree for an image seen at 10 inches distance .
Melted glass filaments are also instructive ( see figures a , / 3 , 7 , 8 , e , \#163 ; , g , O ' ) .
* It is not many years since lines on diatoms were all that were searched for .
But as these are formed by an aggregation of siliceous spherules , they present extraordinary opportunities for investigating optical characters which must necessarily belong to them\#151 ; of a degree of minuteness of a highly satisfactory order\#151 ; such as black annuli , focal points varying with chromatic refraction , shadows varying in contour according to the extinction of transmitted rays by obliquity of illumination : appearances changing with the refractive index of the media in which they are immersed .
Only the very finest glasses extant can display the black margin of a diatomic spherule the nrhvo'f an inch in diameter ; and very few , if any , can be obtained capable of displaying focal points and the natural coloured foci at different chromatic foci .
Microscopical Researches in High-Power Definition .
267 Example2.\#151 ; A microscope with ten degrees aperture considerably diminishes the relative thickness of the black annulus .
Example 3.\#151 ; With forty degrees it is much attenuated and it vanishes altogether when the angular aperture reaches a certain relation to the lenticular refraction .
The vanishing limits vary with the nature of the refracting spherule , and also with the angular observing aperture and the direction of the axis of illumination.* If it be formed of plate glass whose index of refraction into air is r500 , the vanishing angular aperture is 83 ' 36 ' .
But as the index is higher , this angle increases with heavy flint glass ( m=1*988 ) to 164 ' 6 ' .
In both these cases the black defining annulus of the spherule is in these limits attenuated almost to evanescence .
Glasses , therefore , of small angular aperture develope the broadest black outlines in a minute refracting molecule .
The change of appearance of translucent bodies composed of masses of refracting molecules is very finely shown in observing a variety of | scales forming the dust of moths and butterflies .
Example 4.\#151 ; Featherlets of the death 's head moth .
Low angular aperture , 10 ' .
The whole animal bristles with black feathers , armed with three or four long black spines \#166 ; all of a dark but rich umber colour , tipped intensely black ; each spine shows an exceedingly thin line of light running centrally up between two broad intensely black margins .
( Exactly what is seen when examining a thread of spun glass with low aperture .
) ( Eig .
1 , Plate 3 .
) Increasing Aperture.\#151 ; Colours pale .
Light flashes through .
The spherules begin to appear edged with black annuli , which gradually attenuate with higher angled glasses .
( Direct light .
) ( Pig* 2 .
) ( Pig-* , ?
- ) It is remarkable bow the colour changes as the aperture increases , through paler shades , until a general sparkling radiance appears to steal through the mass of molecules formerly darkling with the universal presence of black annuli due to low aperture .
The black edgings also of terminating membranes extending from spikelet to spikelet , and those of refracting tubules become indistinct .
The obliteration of marginal shadows is well shown by first using low and then large aperture on another very beautiful object , viz. : Example 5.\#151 ; Plumelets of the Hipparchus Janira .
Aperture 20 .
Power 200 .
The filaments of the plume and their clubbed ends are all intensely black ( Plate 4 , fig. 13a ) .
* *J The use of a new Aberrameter , for testing Aberration and the Effect ox Aperture , " " Quart .
Jour .
Mic .
Science , " January , 1871 .
The angles subtended by the black shadow are there calculated and tabulated .
Dr. G ' .
W. Royston-Pigott .
Aperture 44'.\#151 ; All still intensely sharp and black with the fW definition of a Wray " half-inch .
" Aperture 55'.\#151 ; Wray glass .
Margins thinner ; the filaments begin to be translucent and at the spherically clubbed ends a focal point of light appears .
Aperture 94'.\#151 ; A remarkably fine l-6th by Beneche of Berlin Power 600 .
Increase of translucency at every part ; black margins attenuated .
Club margin much thinner ( fig. 136 ) .
Aperture 140'.\#151 ; Fine l-8th .
Power 800 .
Black margins almost attenuated to invisibility ; clubs translucent altogether ; no annulus .
It is interesting to state that the thickness of the filaments of this plume vary between F6^ob and oohm\gt ; yet these are beautifully distinct ( aperture 12 ' and 60 diameters 2-inch objective ) , and yet under this amplitude a single filament subtends* less than 20 seconds of arc .
The exceedingly black and sharp appearance of these filaments doubtless accounts for their actual visibility under this very small visual angle .
Now this exactly represents a line 1-1,600,000th thick ( considerably less than a millionth of an inch ) seen under a power of 1,000 diameters.f If then the minute fibril]aa of the plume can be clearly distinguished as closely packed black lines , at a visual angle of twenty seconds , with low aperture of twelve degrees , this result is fatally opposed to the popular idea that very close lines , or very minute lines or bodies , can only be distinguished with large angular aperture .
These lines were most sharply seen , though less than 1-80,000th thick ( fig. 13a , Plate 4 ) .
But besides the black sharply defined ring or annulus always developed in a refracting molecule by using low aperture , oblique illumination produces a thorough change in this black ring : it is transformed into various black crescents ; and a row of such molecules approximately appears as\lt ; a continuous black line sometimes notched .
A tubule also produces a variety of marginal shadows according to the angular aperture of observation and according to the arrangement of internal molecules , and their combined shadows produce a variety of effects of an important character ( fig. 6 ) .
It follows from these considerations that researches upon inex-hausted structures ( those inadequately resolved for instance ) , must be conducted with especial reference to the development and detection of shadow annuli or bands , or notched black lines , and with special * Q \#151 ; arC X PQWer _ TcTUoTS v 5Q^ 1 6\#151 ; 13 " .
rad .
10 inches 16000 4 .
a arc I-7-I6OOOOO i aaa T 6=-----x power=------------x 1000= rad .
10 Microscopical Researches in High Power Definition .
269 regard to the angular aperture of the most effective kind , whether modified by the limitation of illuminating rays or by reduction of aperture ; or by the refractive media concerned , viz. , immersion fluids and " mountings .
" ( Fig. 10 ) .
| Very striking examples of the disappearance of distinctive shadows , and consequent obliteration of structural molecules , are afforded by jfche coarser Podura scales ; principally due to the use of excessive angular aperture ( figs. 3 , 5 ) .
It is now eighteen years since a single observation suggested the present research , which has been followed up almost continuously towards the attainment of transcendent high power definition .
Dark molecules suddenly started into view under accidental manipulation , but were most difficult of reproduction , and in finer objects of the same kind were often utterly unattainable .
The questions naturally arose\#151 ; are certain optical zones in the objectives more effective ; the spherical aberrations existing there as a minimum ; or are there other occult causes of occasional yet splendid definition under high powers ?
This did not appear at all to be a question of the minimum visible because the objects exceeded the 1-50,000th of an inch in diameter .
These points may be illustrated by the records of some observations made by the writer .
Although the molecules of the scale from the insect Podura domestica are large , the 1-45,000th , a stringlet of these baffles the powers of the finest glasses now extant , as ordinarily employed , whilst those of the finer test scales ( the Podura ) are hopelessly attempted by every observer who trusts to excessive angular aperture { Pod .
domestica , fig. 3 , Plate 3 ) .* Example6.\#151 ; Data for Resolution .
2-3rd objective as condenser : a U-shaped stop aperture placed on its front lens.-f " Powell and Lealand 's l-50th objective .
Direct light of petroleum lamp .
Result.\#151 ; A grand display of long rows of whitish molecules in continuous contact ( power 2,500 ) , fig. 4 , and between these rows are Been closely packed rouleaux of a dark lead-blue colour in a parallel higher plane .
The molecules appear like a pearl necklace , in stringlets of twenties and thirties , which can be easily counted , as each molecule appears to be about three degrees of visual angle in diameter .
J Remove the U-shaped stop , and the whole beautiful resolution disappears ( fig. 5 , left half ) .
If , now , - instead of using this difficult * See Plates 73 , 74 .
" Monograph of the Collembola and Thysanura , " by Sir John Lubbock , Bart. ( Bay Society ) .
T This method causes a slight obliquity of illumination , besides considerably reducing the angular aperture of the objective .
Aperture of condenser 30 ' .
t \#174 ; ==T5o(To'j ' 10 * 2500=^ = 3 ' nearly .
VOL. XXXI .
XI Dr. G. W. Royston-Pigott .
glass , a very fine l-8th is used , at the same time that very oblique light illuminates the object , by tilting the axis of the condenser , black crescentic annuli are clearly developed ( fig. 6 ) .
There is no doubt the view manipulated is entirely due to shadow thus developed and the preservation of marginal darkness .
In this way the object may be shown with a very fine half-inch objective .
The molecules are indeed huge compared with other visibilities : perhaps the explanation here given may enable other observers to confirm their existence in this comparatively easy object .
The magnificent Oil Immersion Lens , by Zeiss , of Jena , utterly fails with its full aperture to show the appearances just described .
It displays grandly indeed the long corrugations , tubules , or ribs crossing each other irregularly , but entirely misses their beautiful contents : fully charged though they be with spherules ( see fig. 7 , Plate 3 ) .
The total disappearance of this interesting structure , on the field of such a glass , is both surprising and instructive to the beholder .
Experiment 7.\#151 ; Lata of Resolution .
Inferior l-8th P. and L. 140 ' Objective , 1862 .
Aplanatic condenser 44 ' of aperture ( Wray halfinch ) .
February 5th , 1879 .
Power 800 : cloudy daylight .
Direct light .
The ribs are interrupted and alternately mottled blue and rose colour , slightly pink-coloured molecules without shadow annuli just discoverable peeping between the interrupted ribs .
( The lowest focal plane must here be diligently searched .
) Example 8.\#151 ; Lata .
Objective by Powell and Lealand of exceed-6ne quality .
( Screw collar has 2^ turns and was opened to 25 ' from zero .
) Cloudy daylight ; Same illumination .
Result.\#151 ; Eidolic black dots very much smaller than spherules discernible between very decisive appearance of spines or exclamation markings ( ! ! !
) .
At a very high plane of focal vision , spines alone , the familiar optical test ( fig. 8 ) .
This singular result requires investigation .
Eidolic black dots are generally discoverable on a focal plane above the centre of refracting molecules .
Example 9.\#151 ; Newest form of P. and L. l-10th immersion , a glass of remarkable precision .
Lowest attainable focal plane , with " collar " fully open , so that " nose " is in contact with the " cover .
" Daylight as before .
Aperture of direct illuminating cone 44 ' , formed by Wray half-inch .
Result.\#151 ; The spines are broken into double rows of minute black dots .
Shadowy white beads are glimpsed ( with most scrupulous attention to focal and collar adjustments ) between the spines .
But when the condenser is tilted , strong dark crescentic annuli suddenly appear on the shadowy whitish molecules .
Example 10.\#151 ; Lata .
3 p.m. Sun dimly visible : Powell and Lea-land 's diaphragm No. 2 , diameter 0'2 to reduce angular aperture of Microscopical Researches in High Power .
271 5eiss oil lens used as condenser .
Objective Wray 1-lOtb immersion if extraordinary precision of definition ; same object as before .
[ Result\#151 ; Whenever the sunshine was dimmed with clouds both ulpaces between the spines and the spines themselves are thoroughly ^solved into molecules at the same instant .
( A very difficult Operation .
) A slotted U-stop replacing the small diaphragm aperture aow displayed both black and yellow molecules , the spines having totally disappeared . .
" As it now seemed only fair to Herr Zeiss ' splendid oil immersum the aperture of the achromatic condenser was reduced to 44 ' , its Axis being coincident with the optical .
In place of using cedar oil the glass was immersed in a mixture of Rangoon and olive oil .
Long straight chains of red beads appear shaded black at their margins , and yellow ones dotted black and in a lower focal plane ( fig. 10 ) .
Shaded ribs filled with spherules finely seen with l-16th imm . !
Grundlach .
The aperture of this glass was further reduced by using only a five-inch tube , and separating the front lenses as much as J possible .
This also corrected the spherical aberration ( introduced by the tube being shortened ) as well as reduced the angular aperture .
In these very difficult resolutions , skill , even in full practice , frequently fails .
Fortune may , however , surpass it , and I may record here a remarkable instance of it :*\#151 ; Herr Beneehe , of Berlin , has made for the writer a very excellent glass , which , however , performs best with direct central light ( l-16th immersion objective ) .
It will be now seen how important a factor m delicate observations is the thickness of the " cover " glass * Example 11.\#151 ; Data .
Beneche .
Sleeting sky\#151 ; same object .
The nose touches the cover ; slight action of the screw collar compresses the spherules .
The Podura oil , natural to these scales , is seen slowly to permeate within the now flattened sac forming the scale .
Rows of molecules vanish one after another .
Upon releasing gently the slight pressure , they reappear at will one at a time .
A molecule remaining still in contact with the cover appears dark .
They lie in rows , by twos and threes , and here and there form Y 's by anastomosis .
Placing the correction collar at the most favourable point for finest definition , intensely dark , almost jet-black , spherules appear like shot to occupy each rib .
But the scale appeared utterly spoiled by pressure .
The next day , however , it had entirely recovered its former appearance by the force of capillary attraction .
Again , the native oil was squeezed gently along its many channels at a venture , by means of the fine focal adjustment .
* Benech\amp ; particularly insists , very properly , upon this : as , after all , the collar , adjustment is but a coarse compensation for the peculiar aberrations introduced by a thin plate of glass of varying quality and thickness .
272 Dr. G. W. Royston-Pigott .
Result .
Many V-shaped rows are visible : double molecules henil and there cross between the ribs .
Rapid but delicate changes erf pressure cause minute oil globules to flash up and down with focal points .
An interesting demonstration of the molecules completely fillin up the scale , may be given by rotating the object so as to receive oblique pencils successively .
The black crescentic shadows of the molecules may then be seen in different positions relative to the rih\#171 ; of the scale ( fig. 6 ) .
Fig. 10 .
I must confess that in my earlier attempts to account for the extreme and often insurmountable difficulty attending the demonstra-tion of minute crowded molecules in many translucent organic forms it was erroneously concluded that residuary aberration was the only cause of their obstinate obscuration .
I am now able to amend this conclusion by adding another obstacle , excessive angular aperture , which I found attenuated margin .
Indeed , upon patiently reducing the residuary errors to a minirmiT^ by means of supplementary lenses , as described in the Transactions of the Royal Society , * it was further discovered that the mode there described very considerably reduced also angular aperture .
This result necessarily followed the very considerable shortening of the posterior foci of the objectives employed : at the same time , notwithstanding the full aperture of the lenses is engaged , the residuary aberration of the whole is reduced also , in consequence of angular aperture being at the same time reduced : this large aperture being indeed the great source of spherical error .
The angular aperture may be reduced in the same objective by introducing stops between the back sets of lenses .
It is better , however , to have a series of objectives of excellent quality of graduated apertures .
Aperture can always be reduced by shortening the eye-tube , or by using low power objectives and deeper eye-pieces to get the same power .
It may also be reduced in a manner by using an illuminating cone of light , whose aperture can be diminished at will .
There is , it may be said , something unnatural in the mode of vision intrinsic to very high angled glasses .
It is undoubtedly true that such a glass presents an all-round vision .
It really conveys visual rays from a given brilliant particle , at every inclination in azimuth and altitude ; and this too at one and the same instant .
To illustrate this position , a minute die may be imagined the hundred thousandth broad .
The highest angled objective really enables the * " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 160 , 1870 .
" On a Searcher for Aplanatic Images , " by the Author .
Microscopical Researches in High Power Definition .
273 bserver to collect rays emanating from four sides , and the top at the same instant .
The human eye could at most view three sides at once , doubtless , the effect of this angular vision all round the corners , lauses particles to look spherical when sufficiently minute , even if \#166 ; ubical .
To these considerations we may add the complete attenuation of tnnuli ( which are black in refracting molecules with low angular aperture ) , and the comparative invisibility of masses of molecules .
It may be remarked here , that the resolutions described have chiefly oeen accomplished by placing the objects in a condition to develope black annuli or crescentic shadows , and chiefly by reducing the aperture .
It is also remarkable that the popular markings of the Podura scale lie in a higher plane than the molecules , and having been sought hitherto in a wrong focal plane , were naturally missed .
In cases , however , where the composite spherules are much more crowded and much more minute , mere reduction of aperture is inadequate to discover their existence .
Their excessive delicacy of form and translucency of substance , the difficulties introduced by unmodified diffractions , and by searching the wrong focal planes , mismanagement of shadow-phenomena and uncorrected residuary aberration combine together to present such formidable obstacles to success , that few can congratulate themselves on the complete resolution of 'this celebrated test object .
[ It having been pointed out that the apparent headings on gnat scales have been degraded by the application of the term spurious , it may be said in reply that no proper explanation of these appearances has been given .
On the other hand , spherules much finer may be distinguished on several delicate scales .
Mr. De La Rue pointed out many years since the beaded character of insect striated scales ; * Mr. Stephenson has minutely described those of the gnat scale ; and Mr. Slack other beaded scales , in " Student , " vol. v. In order to place the matter beyond reasonable doubt , and to clear up the structure , diligent search has been made among a considerable variety of these objects , and in the 2nd Plate drawings are given from * " Trans. Mic .
Society , " vol. iii , December 20th , 1848 .
In this paper Mr. De La Hue was able to show that with a l-12th Ross , the ribs of the butterfly scales of Amathusia Horsjieldii , were from the 1-6,000th to 1 -10,000th apart centre to centre , and that cross striae , under a power of 850 , showed protuberances on beaded lines , and the latter focussed at their summits appeared as brown dots .
The scale viewed from the under side exhibited the lower membrane as slightly undulating , probably from being dry , p. 36 .
He proceeds : " Some of my friends thought the constricted appearance of the cross striae is due to overlaying pigment cell : this , in my opinion , is not correct , as I have convinced myself by repeated examinations , more especially from the under side , that the striae themselves are really beaded .
" Dr. G. W. Royston~Pigott .
the objects in view under powers varying from 1,000 to 3 000 diameters , by the aid of the camera lucida .
Scales seen in profile " end on " Figs , a , b , c , represent the fortunate vertical appearance of a scale of the Petrobius mciritimus , a Podura frequenting the coast limestone rocks .
The scale was luckily caught between the slide and cover during the process of remounting ( a ) .
A slightly deeper focus showed appearance ( 6 ) , deeper ( c ) ; a little more pressure caused the scale to turn over and lie nearly flat , recovering its vertical position on the removal of the pressure .
This phenomenon solved the problem once for all , that the under side is smooth , the upper ridged .
Black beads could be detected in ( c ) at the tips of the ridges .
Having secured this fact , attention was next turned to examination of the tips of the spikes with a very exquisite definition of 2,000 diameters .
On search-1 ing many specimens , a full-grown scale was found and accurately !
drawn from the microscope by an assistant .
Never was a search better rewarded , for not only were the great ribs found beaded on both sides , but up to the very tip ( fig. 12 ; while transversely three or four spherules stretched across , in short rows , apparently supplemented by another parallel set placed in contact in a lower focal plane .
Increased pressure being applied the scale was ruptured ; the scale oil then flowed out , but returned , insinuating itself along some of its old channels ; but while pressed out , the whole molecular structure became visible in the obliterated part ; attempted to be shown in the engraving .
Besides these a great number appeared to have burst forth from the disruption .
Podura macrotoma.\#151 ; This little dark-brown leaping insect is very commonly found in the early- spring under old timber and brick-bats .
A young scale is represented faithfully in fig. 14 , a full grown one in fig. 15 , and the cross beading under a power of 3,000 in fig. 16 , the ribs being quite out of focus in an upper focal plane .
In fig. 15 several spherules have escaped and lie irregularly upon the surface and outside the spikelets , each showing a bright focal point and annulus , f It should be here stated that an object-glass was used as condenser of only 15 ' angular aperture .
Large aperture renders the spherules faint and almost invisible .
Direct light was employed and lard oil with a Seibert l-32nd , or No. XI objective of excellent quality .
Great niceties were also attended to , such as\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Varying the length of the observing tube between 5 and 16 inches , changing the eye-pieces and especially altering the aberrations by the screw collar .
( 2 .
) Varying the immersion fluid .
( 3 .
) Varying the illumination by means of a series of objectives as condensers having angular apertures between 10 ' and 85 ' .
Microscopical Researches in High Poioer Definition .
275 The full and brilliant display of these minute spherules is , therefore , ttended with no little patient research .
( Direct light used only .
) j i wish to call attention to the appearance of a fine full-grown scale if the Podura macrotoma under from 2,000 to 3,000 diameters in jhree different focal planes .
[ pig .
18 represents the upper focus , j Fig. 19 represents the middle focal plane .
Fig. 20 .
The lowest .
The Podura macrotoma appears very much to resemble in its scales shose of the Petrobius maritimus .
Younger scales show single rows of ipherules on the ribs , and also between them .
Fig. 21 .
A strongly-marked scale , showing the appearance of large spherules .
] Method of Estimating very Minute Bodies by means of the Micrometer Gauge .
A series of fibres of spun glass is arranged according to thickness , with free ends projecting into the middle of the field of view of the eye-piece , also spider-lines placed across the stop : Thickness of No. 1 accurately measured 1- 1,750th'of an inch .
" No. 2 " " 1- 2,000th Spider-line No. 3 " \#187 ; 1 " 6,000th " " No. 4 " " 1- 8,000th " No. 5 " " 1-10,000th If a positive eye-piece be employed magnifying ten times with an objective of l-10th focal length , the posterior focal image of the glass presents an image magnified 100 times , the total power being 1,000 .
If , then , No. 1 appears to gauge the size of a magnified object really 100 times less\#151 ; ( No. 1 .
) Its size=1- ?
Vo\gt ; \lt ; r^o = 1-175,000th .
( No. 5 .
) The size would be TTnhn\gt ; * t\#163 ; o=1-1,000,000th .
The micrometer guage is not difficult of construction , as the projecting glass fibres can readily be cemented to the stop within the eye-piece .
An object is much better compared by bringing it apparently to the free extremity of the fibre , so as to be in juxtaposition .
Examples of Measurement:\#151 ; 1 .
Fibrilloe of the 3 .
Janira Moth .
1-80,000th to 1-90,000th of an inch thick .
Black margin of the stem of the fibril about one-fourth of- this : thickness of black margin between 1-300,000th and 1-400,000th .
( Fig- 135 .
) 2 .
The delicate Membrane uniting the Minute Spihelets of the Scale of the Gnat.\#151 ; It may be observed that whenever a membrane is duplicated and flattened a dark black line is formed ; the edge is , in fact , semi-cylindrical , and transmits no light .
Dr. G. W. Royston-Pigott .
If the spider-lines be employed , careful microscopic examinatioi should be made and their actual thickness measured .
When thal eannot be exposed , a very long focus objective must be employed wit } a deep eye-piece and a long tube .
It should be noted whether the\ are simple or complex in structure .
Method of Estimating the Size of a Minute Molecule or Contact is apparently made ; first , with the outside of the spider-lines , the micrometer is then read .
Inside contacts must now be noted .
* The mean will be the true size of the molecule , whether the spider webs are of the same thickness or are of different thicknesses.* If a fine membrane be folded over tightly , the line of flexure appears exceedingly black and straight , and somewhat thicker than the membrane .
The folded edge may then be considered at any point as a refracting semi-cylinder , of special optical beauty and precision of form unrivalled in organic life .
To ascertain roughly the nature of this black line , gold beater 's skin was folded over and pressed ; at the line of flexure a very sharp black hue appeared , when examined with a pocket lens .
This line appeared about one-third thicker than the free edge of the skin forming a section .
Gold leaf exhibits similar dark lines of flexure , f upon the malachite green of the gold under transmitted light , if there be but little alloy present .
On the whole , this line is thicker than the leaf , or about 1-100,000th , but it is not nearly so sharply displayed as in the flexure of insect scales ; in many cases of which the breadth of this black line is even lessj ( particularly in the finest gnat and Podura scales ) .
Example.\#151 ; In the gnat 's scale the membrane , including the molecules of its structure , stretches in graceful little curves from spikelet * If It he the first , B/ the second reading 5 , S ' , the thickness of the webs , it is evident , if A be true diameter of molecule , It = A + , E'= a\#151 ; K + R ' = 2a , a R + H ' the mean , which is independent of the size of the webs .
t One grain of gold can be hammered into leaves sufficient to cover 56\#163 ; square inches ; its thickness will then not exceed 1-282,000th of an inch.\#151 ; u Encyclopaedia Britannica , " Article " Gold .
" The skin is really a tough French paper .
I This line has in general resisted every attempt at resolution ; yet , when a corrugated scale is folded over , not too sharply , a serrated edge must necessarily exist .
I have never been able to define this serration perfectly , except with object-glasses of the highest excellence and reduced aperture , which of course darkened and sharpened the defining shadows .
A very fine view was obtained by means of the posterior focus of a l-50th being shortened to about two inches , which very considerably reduced the aperture and admitted considerable separation of the front lenses , to correct the aberration thus introduced .
Microscopical Researches in High Power Definition .
277 j -0 gpikelet , and is very black and distinct at the edge with , a first-class ^lass , the objective aperture being reduced by using a condenser of ibout 15 ' aperture .
i 1 One of these terminators was placed between the spider-lines of a , i delicate micrometer in such a way that the lined edge was apparently half way between , and the interval on each side between them equal jo the thickness of the lined edge or terminating curve .
Neglecting \#163 ; the semi-thickness of the spider-lines , the distance between the latter was read 15 millionths ( 15ttl ) ; one-third of this is 5|J| , or the 200,000th of an inch , whilst the general black margins of the ribs appear very much less . !
As against transmitted , light , causing diffraction , the extremities |of the spikelets were barely visible and did not appear one-third the thickness of the black line edge or margin , or about the 600,000th of an inch .
Between the ribs forming the spikelets rows of about four molecules could be seen stretching across like the rounds of a ladder .
The ribs were 1-50,000th thick ; the molecules about one-jfchird of this in diameter .
On one occasion a scale was discovered " end " on .
The ribs then appeared rounded off and prominent , and of an intensely blue-black \#166 ; colour ; projecting nearly the same amount in relief as they are separated by the corrugated channels between them as semi-cylinders '(fig .
22 ) on one side , the other being quite smooth .
The most surprisingly minute lines I have been able to detect were seen in examining an extremely small species of gnat .
Mounted fresh and dry , the plumule hairs , about the 1-100,000th thick , were themselves hairy !
\#151 ; ciliated hairs .
The antennae displayed central grooves also ciliated .
And the secretory organ , whence the plume hairs issued , formed a boss or cup , around which a fringe of cilia of very minute magnitude was erected , j Comparing these with the familiar images of spider-lines reduced in miniatures 140 times , I should not hesitate to estimate these objects at !
a size approaching the millionth or microscopical unit ( til ) .
An extraordinary instance of accidental magnification of these usually invisible cilia with perfect distinctness , indeed , I might say , with the most vivid definition ( probably a power of 10,000 diameters ) was discovered to-day .
See description of Plates , fig. 17 .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
Figures 1\#151 ; 2 .
Insect scales .
Death 's head moth under very low and high aperture .
Figure 3 .
Ordinary appearance of Degeeria Figure 4 .
Resolution of Podura domestica ( same object as fig. 3 ) into dark and light molecules , l-50th Powell and Lealand objective .
Figure 5 .
The approved appearance of the spines of the domestica ( left half ) .
VOL. XXXI .
X 278 Microscopical Researches in High Power Definition .
Figure 6 .
Crescentic and tubular shadows .
domestica .
Figure 5a .
Same object obliquely illuminated , after Mr. McIntyre .
Figures a , ft y ... 9 .
Refracting globules of melted glass filaments and refract .
1 spherules .
The black annulus varies in thickness , as described accord .
to the conditions of refraction and the degree of angular aperture .
Figure 9 represents the spider-lines in the field of view .
Minute black d J appeared on some of the mercurial mirrorlets , but too small for t writer to depict .
Where the spider-lines crossed the minute reflect .fi circlets they appeared intensely black , but otherwise were seen plaiifj| black upon a dark grey ground .
The experiment is difficult of BuccJi ful performance .
Figure 10 .
Highly magnified Degeeria spherules , with l-50th object-glass .
Figure 11 .
Spherules of Degeeria , after Mr. McIntyre .
" Monthly Micros^* pical Journal , " 1870 , p. 5 , vol. iii .
Figures a , 5 , c. Successive views of spikelets of scale , " end ouj\gt ; J and in different focal planes , an extremity being one spherule .
Plate |ij Figure 12 d.Black beaded appearance of spikelets and ribs .
Same scale .
Figure 13a .
Plume of Meadow-brown seen with low aperture , 1-80,000th inch thifaj being size of the fibrils .
( H .
) Figure 135 .
The same , with large angular aperture .
Figure 14 .
Young beaded scale of Podwra macrotoma .
Figure 15 .
Mature scale $ cross rouleaux of molecules developed j loose spheruhi^ escaped after pressure .
Figure 16= Highly magnified spikelets and transverse spherules in lower focal planjfi ] Power 3,000 , Seibert of Berlin l-32nd , No. XI objective .
Figure 17 .
Extraordinary double or compound amplification of ciliary hairs growing on antennae of male gnat ; produced by an irregular oil globule adhering to the stem .
The most wonderful power ever seen by the writer , ani^ suggestive of further experiment , the cilia here being otherwise invisible !
ii Figures 18 , 19 , 20 , and 21 .
Different appearances of the Pod .
macrot .
in higher | middle , and lower focal planes , 21 being a strongly marked beaded scale \gt ; s Figure 22 .
Gnat scale fortuitously discovered , and one similar to the scale shown ; ** figs , a , b , c , Plate 4 .
One surface being ribbed , the other perfectly^ smooth .
The intense blue-black is not shown : caused by the arrest of ; rays of light and the beauty of the definition as in lunar shadows .
'RoystcrvPigoit .
Proa.tioy .
So .Vol .
St PI 3 .
WMMeeUy Ta\amp ; u ~We\amp ; t- , 'TT\amp ; tfrrncvn \amp ; Cc i*np .
\ystcrvJPvgotL .
Proa .
Roy .
Soc,.Vo~L.31 .
PL .
4 , i \#171 ; 1 .
ft 1 CL " W , jf ] .
Vu\amp ; v , yfesb , JTevrrrucun^ \amp ; " l'mf

