118 Lord Rayleigh on the Application of [ June 15 , VI .
" On the Application of the Principle of Reciprocity to Acoustics .
" By Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received May 27 , 1876 .
In a memoir published some years ago by Helmholtz ( Crelle , Bd .
lvii .
) it was proved that if a uniform frictionless gaseous medium be thrown into vibration by a simple source of sound of given period and intensity , the variation of pressure is the same at any point B when the source of sound is at A as it would have been at A had the source of sound been situated at B , and that this law is not interfered with by the presence of any number of fixed solid obstacles on which the sound may impinge .
A simple source of sound is a point at which the condition of continuity of the fluid is broken by an alternate introduction and abstraction of fluid , given in amount and periodic according to the harmonic law .
The reciprocal property is capable of generalization so as to apply to all acoustical systems whatever capable of vibrating about a configuration pf equilibrium , as I proved in the Proceedings of the Mathematical Society for June 1873 , and is not lost even when the systems are subject to damping , provided that the frictional forces vary as the first power of the velocity , as must always be the case when the motion is small enough .
Thus Helmholtz 's theorem may be extended to the case when the medium is not uniform , and when the obstacles are of such a character that they share the vibration .
But although the principle of reciprocity appears to be firmly grounded on the theoretical side , instances are not uncommon in which a sound generated in the open air at a point A is heard at a distant point B , when an equal or even more powerful sound at B fails to make itself heard at A ; and some phenomena of this kind are strongly insisted upon by Prof. Henry in opposition to Prof. Tyndall 's views as to the importance of " acoustic clouds " in relation to the audibility of fog-signals .
These observations were not , indeed , made with the simple sonorous sources of theory ; but there is no reason to suppose that the result would have been different if simple sources could have been used .
In experiments having for their object the comparison of sounds heard under different circumstances there is one necessary precaution to which it may not be superfluous to allude , depending on the fact that the audibility of a particular sound depends not only upon the strength of that sound , but also upon the strength of other sounds which may be heard along with it .
For example , a lady seated in a closed carriage and carrying on a conversation through an open window in a crowded thoroughfare will hear what is said to her far more easily than she can make herself heard in return ; but this is no failure in the law of reciprocity .
The explanation of his observations given by Henry depends upon the peculiar action of wind , first explained by Prof. Stokes .
According to 1876 .
] the Principle of Reciprocity to Acoustics .
119 this view a sound is ordinarily heard better with the wind than against it , in consequence of a curvature of the rays .
With the wind a ray will generally be bent downwards , since the velocity of the air is generally greater overhead than at the surface , and therefore the upper part of the wave-front tends to gain on the lower .
The ray which ultimately reaches the observer is one which started in some degree upwards from the source , and has the advantage of being out of the way of obstacles for the greater part of its course .
Against the wind , on the other hand , the curvature of the rays is upwards , so that a would-be observer at a considerable distance is in danger of being left in a sound-shadow .
It is very important to remark that this effect depends , not upon the mere existence of a wind , but upon the velocity of the wind being greater overhead than below .
A uniform translation of the entire atmosphere would be almost without effect .
In particular cases it may happen that the velocity of the wind diminishes with height , and then sound is best transmitted against the wind .
Prof. Henry shows that several anomalous phenomena relating to the audibility of signals may be explained by various suppositions as to the velocity of the wind at different heights .
When the distances concerned are great , comparatively small curvatures of the ray may produce considerable results .
There is a further possible consequence of the action of wind ( or aaiiable temperature ) , which , so far as I know , has not hitherto been remarked .
By making the velocity a suitable function of height it would be possible to secure an actual convergence of rays in a vertical plane upon a particular station .
The atmosphere would then act like the lens of a lighthouse , and the intensity of sound might be altogether abnormal .
I his may peihaps be the explanation of the extraordinary distances at which guns have sometimes been heard .
The difference in the propagation of sound against and with the wind is no exception to the general law referred to at the beginning of this communication , for that law applies only to the vibrations of a system about a configuration of equilibrium .
A motion of the medium is thus excluded .
But the bending of the sound-ray due to a variable temperature , to which attention has been drawn by Prof. Eeynolds , does not interfere with the application of the law .
An experiment has , however , been brought forward by Prof. Tyndall , in which there is an apparent failure of reciprocity not referable to any motion of the medium* .
The source of sound is a very high-pitched reed mounted in a short tube and blown from a small bellows with which it is connected by rubber tubing .
The variation of pressure at the second point is made apparent by means of the sensitive flame , which has been used by Prof. Tyndall with so much success on other occasions .
Although the flame itself , when unexcited , is 18 to 24 inches high , it was * Proceedings of the Eoyal Institution , January 1875 ; also Prof. Tyndall 's work on Sound , 3rd edition .
120 Lord Rayleigh on the Application of [ June 15 , proved by a subsidiary experiment that the root of the flame , where it issues from the burner , is the seat of sensitiveness .
With this arrangement the effect of a cardboard or glass screen interposed between the reed and the flame was found to be different , according as the screen was close to the flame or close to the reed .
In the former case the flame indicated the action of sound , but in the latter remained uninfluenced .
Since the motion of the screen is plainly equivalent to an interchange of the reed and flame , there is to all appearance a failure in the law of reciprocity .
At first sight this experiment is difficult to reconcile with theoretical conclusions .
It is true that the conditions under which reciprocity is to be expected are not very perfectly realized , since the flame ought not to be moved from one position to the other .
Although the seat of sensitiveness may be limited to the root of the flame , the tall column of highly heated gas might not be without effect ; and in fact it appeared to me possible that the response of the flame , when close to the screen , might be due to the conduction of sound downwards along it .
Not feeling satisfied , however , with this explanation , I determined to repeat the experiment , and wrote to Prof. Tyndall , asking to be allowed to see the apparatus .
In reply he very kindly proposed to arrange a repetition of the experiment at the Royal Institution for my benefit , an offer which I gladly accepted .
The effect itself was perfectly distinct , and , as it soon appeared , was not to be explained in the manner just suggested , since the response of the flame when close to the screen continued , even when the upper part of the heated column was protected from the direct action of the source by additional screens interposed .
I was more than ever puzzled until Mr. Cottrell showed me another experiment in which , I believe , the key of the difficulty is to be found .
When the axis of the tube containing the reed is directed towards the flame , situated at a moderate distance , there is a distinct and immediate response ; but when the axis is turned away from the flame through a comparatively small angle , the effect ceases , although the distance is the same as before , and there are no obstacles interposed .
If now a cardboard screen is held in the prolongation of the axis of the reed , and at such an angle as to reflect the vibrations in the direction of the flame , the effect is again produced with the same apparent force as at first .
These results prove conclusively that the reed does not behave as the simple source of theory , even approximately .
When the screen is close ( about 2 inches distant ) the more powerful vibrations issuing along the axis of the instrument impinge directly upon the screen , are reflected back , and take no further part in the experiment .
The only vibrations which have a chance of reaching the flame , after diffraction round the screen , are the comparatively feeble ones which issue nearly at right angles with the axis .
On the other hand , when the screen is close to 1876 .
] the Principle of Reciprocity to Acoustics .
121 the flame , the efficient vibrations are those which issue at a small angle with the axis , and are therefore much more powerful .
Under these circumstances it is not surprising that the flame is affected in the latter case and not in the former .
The concentration of sound in the direction of the axis is greater than would have been anticipated , and is to be explained by the very short wave-length corresponding to the pitch of the reed .
If , as is not improbable , the overtones of the note given by the reed are the most efficient part of the sound , the wave-length will be still shorter and the concentration more easy to understand* .
The reciprocal theorem in its generalized form is not restricted to simple sources , from which ( in the absence of obstacles ) sound would issue alike in all directions ; and the statement for double sources will throw light on the subject of this note .
A double source may be thus defined :\#151 ; Conceive two equal and opposite simple sources , situated at a short distance apart , to be acting simultaneously .
By calling the two sources opposite , it is meant that they are to be at any moment in opposite phases .
At a moderate distance the effects of the two sources are antagonistic and may be made to neutralize one another to any extent by diminishing the distance between the sources .
If , however , at the same time that we diminish the interval , we augment the intensity of the single sources , the effect may be kept constant .
Pushing this idea to its limit , when the intensity becomes infinite and the interval vanishes , we arrive at the conception of a double source having an axis of symmetry coincident with the line joining the single sources of which it is composed .
In an open space the effect of a double source is the same as that communicated to the air by the vibration of a solid sphere whose centre is situated at the double point and whose line of vibration coincides with the axis , and the intensity of sound in directions inclined to the axis varies as the square of the cosine of the obliquity .
The statement of the reciprocal theorem with respect to double sources is then as follows:\#151 ; If there be equal double sources at two points A and B , having axes A P , B Q respectively , then the velocity of the medium at B resolved in the direction B Q due to the source at A is the same as the velocity at A resolved in the direction A P due to the source at B. If the waves observed at A and B are sensibly plane , and if the axes A P , B Q are equally inclined to the waves received , we may , in the above statement , replace " velocities " by " pressures , " but not otherwise .
Suppose , now , that equal double sources face each other , so that the common axis is A B , and let us examine the effect of interposing a screen near to A. By the reciprocal theorem , whether there be a screen or not , the velocity at A in direction A B due to B is equal to the velocity at B * July 13 .
I have lately observed that the flame in question is extremely sensitive to one of Mr. F. Gallon 's whistles , which gives notes near the limits of ordinary hearing .
VOL. XXV .
K Prof. T. E. Thorpe on [ June 15 , in direction A B due to A. The waves received at B are approximately plane and perpendicular to A B , so that the relation between the velocity and pressure at B is that proper to a plane wave ; but it is otherwise in the case of the sound received at A. Accordingly the reciprocal theorem does not lead us to expect an equality between the pressures at A and B , on which quantities the behaviour of the sensitive flames depends .
On the contrary , it would appear that the pressure at A corresponding to the given velocity along A B should be much greater than in the case of a plane wave , and then the relative advantage of the position A would be explained .
It will be seen that if the preceding arguments are correct , Prof. Tyndall 's experiment does not bear out the conclusions that he has based upon it with respect to the observations of the French Commission at Villejuif and Monthery ; No acoustic clouds could explain the failure of reciprocity then observed ; and the more probable hypothesis that the effect was due to wind is not inconsistent with the observation that the air ( at the surface ) was moving in the direction against which the sound was best heard .
Further experiments on this subject are very desirable .
VII .
" On Phosphorus Pentafluoride .
" By T. E. Thorpe , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the Yorkshire College of Science .
Received June 6 , 1876 .
Arsenic trifluoride acts violently upon phosphorus pentachloride with the formation of arsenic trichloride and the liberation of a heavy fuming gas , which analysis shows to be phosphorus pentajluoride .
The production of the new gas may be represented by the equation 5 AsF8+3 PC15 = 5 AsC13 + 3PF5 .
Direct experiments have shown that the amount of arsenic trichloride actually produced in the reactions agrees closely with that demanded by this equation .
The accuracy of the formula was further controlled by determinations of the density of the gas .
Three experiments made by two independent methods gave the numbers\#151 ; I. ... ... 62-98 II 63-33 Ill 63-39 The number demanded by the formula PF5 is 63- ' , hydrogen being the unit .

