XXX .
Geometrical Solutions of three celebrated Astronomical Problems , by the late Dr. Henry Pemberton , F. R. S. Communicated by Matthew Raper , Esq ; F. R. S. LEMM A. TO form a triangle with two given sides , that the rectangle under the sine of the angle contained by the two given sides , and the tangent of the angle opposite to the lesser of the given sides , shall be the greatest that can be .
Read June 4 , 1772 .
Let [ T A B. XII .
Fig. I. ] the two given sides be equal to AB and A C : round the center A , with the interval A C , describe the circle CD E , and produce BA to E ; take BFa mean proportional between BE and B C , and erect the perpendicular F G , and complete the triangle AG B. Here the sine of BAG is to the radius , as FG to A G ; and the tangent of ABG to the radius , as FG to F B : therefore , the rectangle under the sine of BAG and the tangent of ABG is to the square of Philes .
~ Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
~ HG G DK I H ML EAIFLCBEAFCBE K GG Fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 .
H I Fig. 6 .
IFF DD A CCA KEBHBE KONR P FHD MLQ GM Fig. 7 .
DL CA CBK AE Fig. 8 .
BEHF Philes .
Trans. Vol. LXII .
Tab. XII .
p. 435 .
Fig. 3 .
N G P O T V S AQCB R F Fig. 6 .
C AE G B RSC P QB FIGA Fig. 9 .
the radius , as the square of F G , or the rectangle OF C , to the rectangle under AG ( or A C ) and F B , But , EB being to BF as BF to B C , by conversion , EB is to OF as BF to F C , and also , by taking the difference of the antecedents and of the consequents , OF is to twice AF as BF to F C ; and twice AFB is equal to OF C. Now , let the triangle BAH be formed , where the angle BAH is greater than BA G. Here , the perpendicular HI being drawn , the rectangle under the sine of BAH and the tangent of ABH will be to the square of the radius , as the rectangle EIC to the rectangle under A C , I B. But IF is to FB as 2AFI to 2AF B , or OF C ; and 2AFI is greater than A Fq A Iq ; also A Fq A Iq together with OF C , is equal to EI C ; therefore , by composition , the ratio of IB to BF is greater than that of EIC to OF C ; and the ratio of ACxIB to ACxFB greater than that of EIC to OF C : also , by permutation , the ratio of ACxIB to EIC greater than the ratio of ACxFB to OF C. But the first of these ratios is the same with that of the square of the radius to the rectangle under the sine of BAH and the tangent of AB H ; and the latter is the same with that of the square of the radius to the rectangle under the sine of BAG and the tangent of AB G ; therefore , the latter of these two rectangles is greater than the other .
Again , let the triangle BAK be formed , with the angle BAK less than BA G , and the perpendicular KL be drawn .
Then the rectangle under the sine of BAK and the tangent of ABK is to the square of the radius , as the square of KL to the rectangle under A C , B L. Here , FL being to FB as 2AFL to 2AFB or OF C , and 2AFL less than A Lq A Fq , by conversion , the ratio of LB to FB will be greater than the ratio of ELC to OF C ; therefore , as before , the rectangle under the sine of BAG and the tangent of ABG is greater than that under the sine of BAK and the tangent of AB K. COROLLARY I. BF is equal to the tangent of the circle from the point B ; therefore , BF is the tangent , and AB the secant , to the radius A C , of the angle , whose cosine is to the radius as AC to A B. Therefore , AF is the tangent , to the same radius , of half the complement of that angle ; and AF is also the cosine of the angle BAG to this radius .
CORO L. 2 .
The sine of the angle composed of the complement of AG B , and twice the complement of AB G , is equal to three times the sine of the complement of AG B. Let fall the perpendicular AH ( Fig. 2 .
) , cutting the circle in I ; continue GF to K , and draw A K. Then B Fq =EBC=GB L. Therefore , G B : B F : : B F : B L , and the triangles GB F , FBL are similar .
Consequently FL is perpendicular to G B , and parallel to A H ; whence GH being equal to H L , GM is equal to M F , and MK equal to three times G M. Now , the arc IK=2IC+G I ; and the angle IAK=2IAC+GA I ; also GM is to MK as the sine of the arc GI to the sine of the arc I K , that is , as the sine of the angle GAI to the sine of the angle IA K. Therefore , the sine of the angle IAK ( = 2IAC+GA I ) is equal to three times the sine of the angle GA I ; but GAI is the complement of AG B , and IAC the complement of AB G. CORO L. 3 .
If ( Fig. 3 .
) any line BN be drawn to divide the angle AB G , and AN be joined , also AO be drawn perpendicular to B N , and continued to the circle in P , the sine of the angle composed of NAP and 2PAC will be less than three times the sine of the angle NA P. Draw NQR perpendicular to A B , cutting AP in S ; join A R , and draw QT perpendicular to B N , and parallel to A O ; then B Qq =NB T. But B Qq is greater than the rectangle EB C , that is , greater than the rectangle NB V , under the two segments of the line BN drawn from B , to cut the circle in N and V : therefore , TB is greater than V B , and NO greater than O T. Consequently NS is greater than S Q. Hence RS is less than three times N S ; and therefore , the sine of the angle PAR ( = NAP+2PA C ) is less than three times the sine of NA P. PROBLEM I. To find in the ecliptic the point of longest ascension .
ANALYSI S. Let ( Fig. 4 .
) ABC be the equator , ADC the ecliptic , BD the situation of the horizon , when D is the point of longest ascension .
Let EFG be another situation of the horizon .
Then the ratio of the sine of EB to the sine of FD is compounded of the ratio of the sine of BG to the sine of G D , and of the ratio of the sine of AE to the sine of A F ; but the angles B and E being equal , the arcs E G , GB together make a semicircle ; and , by the approach of EG towards G B , the ultimate magnitude of BG will be a quadrant , and the ultimate ratio of EB to FD will be compounded of the ratio of the radius to the sine of DG ( that is , the cosine of B D ) and of the ratio of the sine of AB to the sine of A D. Draw the arc DH perpendicular to A B. Then , in the triangle BD H , the radius is to the cosine of B D , as the tangent of the angle BDH to the cotangent of HB D. Also , in the triangle BD A , the sine of AB is to the sine of AD as the sine of the angle BDA ( or BD C ) to the sine of AB D ; therefore , the ultimate ratio of BE to DF is compounded of the ratio of the tangent of BDH to the cotangent of AB D , and of the ratio of the sine of BDC to the sine of AB D ; which two ratios compound that of the rectangle under the tangent of BDH and the sine of BDC to the rectangle under the cotangent and the sine of the given angle AB D. But , when D is the point of longest ascension , the ratio of BE to DF is the greatest that can be ; therefore , then the ratio of the rectangle under the tangent of BDH and the sine of BDC to the given rectangle under the cotangent and sine of the given angle ABD must be the greatest that can be ; and consequently , the rectangle under the tangent of BD H , and the sine of BD C , must be the greatest that can be .
In the triangle BD A , the sine of BDH is to the sine of HD A , as the cosine of ABD to the cosine of BA D. Now , in the preceding lemma , let the angle BAG of the triangle AGB be equal to the spherical angle BD C : then will the sum of the angles AB G , AGB be equal to the spherical angle BD A. And , if AG in the triangle AG B , be to AB as the cosine of the spherical angle DBA to the cosine of DA B , that is , as the sine of BDH to the sine of HD A , the angle AB G , in the triangle , will be equal to the spherical angle BD H ; and the angle AG B , in the triangle , equal to the spherical angle HD A. Therefore , by the first corollary of the lemma , that the rectangle under the tangent of the spherical angle BDH and the sine of BDC be the greatest that can be , the cosine of BDC must be equal to the tangent of half the complement of the angle , whose cosine is to the radius , as AG to A B , in the triangle , or as the cosine of the spherical angle ABD to the cosine of the spherical angle BA D. If IK be the situation of the horizon , when the solstitial point is ascending , in the quadrantal triangle AI K , the cosine of KIC is to the radius as the cosine of IKA ( = DBA ) to the cosine of IAK .
Therefore , fore , the cosine of BD C , when D is the point of longest ascension , is equal to the tangent of half the complement of the angle , which the ecliptic makes with the horizon , when the solstitial point is ascending .
But , the sine of the angle composed of DA B , and twice AB D , must be less than three times the sine of the angle BA D. In the spherical triangle AB D , the angles BA D , ABD together exceed the external angle BD C. Therefore , in the third corollary of the lemma , let the angle BAN be equal to the sum of the spherical angles BA D , AB D : but here , AN is to AB as the cosine of the spherical angle ABD to the cosine of BA D ; and AN is also to AB as the sine of ABN to the sine of AN B , that is , as the cosine of BAP to the cosine of NA P ; consequently , since the angle BAN is equal to the sum of the spherical angles BA D , AB D , the angle NAP is equal to the spherical angle BA D , and the angle BAP equal to the spherical angle AB D ; but the sine of the angle composed of NAP and twice PAB is less than three times the sine of NA P ; therefore , the sine of the angle composed of the spherical angle BAD and 2ABD will be less than three times the sine of the angle BA D ; otherwise no such triangle DB A , as is here required , can take place , but the point A will be the point of longest ascension .
If the sine of the angle A be greater than one third of the radius , the point A can never be the point of longest ascension ; but when the sine of this angle is less , the angle compounded of BAD and twice AB D , may be greater or less than a quadrant ; and therefore , the magnitude of the angle AB D , that A be the point of longest ascension , is confined within two limits , of which the double of one added to the angle A , as much exceeds a quadrant , as the double of the other added to that angle falls short of it ; therefore , double the sum of those two angles , together with twice A , makes a semicircle ; and the single sum of those two angles added to A makes a quadrant .
PROBLEM II .
To find when the arc of the ecliptic differs most from its oblique ascension .
ANALYSI S. If ( Fig. 5 .
) BD be the situation of the horizon , when CD differs most from C B , as before , the ultimate ratio of BE to DF will be compounded of the ratio of the radius to the sine of DG ( or the cosine of D B ) and of the ratio of the sine of CB to the sine of C D : but , when CD differs most from C B , BE and DF are ultimately equal ; therefore , then the cosine of BD is to the radius as the sine of CB to the sine of C D. Draw the arc CHI of a great circle , that DH be equal to D B ; then , BH being double B D , half the sine of BH is to the sine of BD or D H , as the cosine of BD to the radius ; therefore , half the sine of BH is to the sine of DH as the sine of CB to the sine of C D ; but the sine of the angle BCH is to the sine of BH as the sine of the angle CHB to the sine of C B ; whence , by equality , half the sine of BCH is to the sine of DH as the sine of CHB to the sine of C D : but as the sine of CHB to the sine of C D , so , in the triangle CH D , is the sine of DCH to the sine of H D : consequently , the sine of DCH is equal to half the sine of BC H. Hence , the difference of the angles BC H , DCH being given , those angles are given , and the arc CHI is given by position .
Moreover , in the triangle BC H , the base BH being bisected by the arc C D , the sine of the angle CHD is to the sine of the given angle CB D , as the sine of the given angle HCD to the sine of the given angle BC D ; therefore , the angle CHB is given ; in so much , that in the triangle CBH all the angles are given .
The sum of the sines of the angles BC H , DCH is to the difference of their sines , as the tangent of half the sum of those angles to the tangent of half their difference ; therefore , the tangent of half the sum of BC H , DCH is three times the tangent of half BC D. In ( Fig. 6 .
) the isosceles triangle AB C , let the angle BAC be equal to the spherical angle BC D , and let AE be perpendicular to B C ; also , CF being taken equal to C B , join A F : then OF is equal to three times E B ; and as OF to E B , so is the tangent of the angle EAF to the tangent of EA B ; but EAB is equal to half the spherical angle BC D : therefore , the angle EAF is equal to half the sum of the spherical angles BC D , BC H ; and consequently , the angle CAF equal to the spherical angle DC H. Here , AF is to CF as the sine of the angle ACF to the sine of CA F ; and CB is to AB as the sine of the angle BAC to the sine of AC B : therefore , CF being equal to C B , and the sine of ACF to the sine of ACB , by equality , AF is to AB as the sine of the angle BAC to the sine of CA F , that is , as the sine of the spherical angle BCD to the sine of the spherical angle DC H. Let ( Fig. 7 .
) the triangle AGB have the angle ABG equal to the spherical angle CB D , and the side AG equal to A F. Then , AG is to AB as the sine of the spherical angle BCD to the sine of the spherical angle DC H , that is , as the sine of the spherical angle CBH to the sine of the spherical angle CH B : but AG is to AB also as the sine of the angle ABG to the sine of AG B ; therefore , the angle ABG being equal to the spherical angle CB H , the angle AGB is equal to the spherical angle CH B : and moreover , when the angle ABG is greater than AB F , that is , when the spherical angle CBH is greater than the complement of half BC D , the three angles AB G , AGB and BAC together exceed two right .
Hence , ( Fig. 8 .
) towards the equinoctial point C , where the angle CBD is obtuse , a situation of the horizon , as B D , may always be found , wherein CD more exceeds CB than in any other situation : and when the acute angle DBA is greater than the complement of half BC D , another situation of the horizon , as KL M , may be found , toward the other equinoctial point A , wherein the arc of the ecliptic CK will be less than the arc of the equator , and their difference be greater than in any other situation .
But , if the angle DBA be not greater than the comL ll2 plement plement of half BC D , the arc of the ecliptic , between C and the horizon , will never be less than the arc of the equator , between the same point C and the horizon .
In the two situations of the horizon , the angles CHB and KMA are equal .
SCHOLIUM 1 .
To find the point in the ecliptic , where the arc of the ecliptic most exceeds the right ascension , is a known problem : that point is , where the cosine of the declination is a mean proportional between the radius and the cosine of the greatest declination .
In the preceding figure , supposing the angle CBD to be right , then , because when CD most exceeds C B , the cosine of BD is to the radius as the sine of CB to the sine of C D , and , in the triangle CB D , the sine of CB is to the sine of CD as the sine of the angle CDB to the radius , also the sine of CDB is to the radius as the cosine of BCD to the cosine of B D ; therefore , the cosine of BD is to the radius as the cosine of the angle BCD to the cosine of the same B D , and the cosine of BD is a mean proportional between the radius and the cosine of BC D. SCHOLIUM 2 .
In any given declination of the Sun , to find when the azimuth most exceeds the angle which measures the time from noon , is a problem analogous to the preceding .
PROBLEM III .
The tropic found , by Dr. Halley 's method * , without any consideration of the parabola .
The observations are supposed to give the proportions between the differences of the sines of three declinations of the Sun near the tropic ; but the sine of the Sun 's place is in a given proportion to the sine of the declination ; therefore , the same observations give equally the proportion between the differences of the sines of the Sun 's place , in each observation .
Now ( Fig. 9 .
) , let ACE be the ecliptic , AE its diameter between ~ and ~ , and its center F ; let B , C , D be three places of the Sun ; B G , C I , DH the sines of those places respectively .
Draw C K , BL parallel to A E , which may meet H D , in N and M. Then , by the observations , the ratio of DM to DN is given .
Therefore , if BD be drawn to meet KL in O , the ratio of BD to OD is given ; and the ratio of BD to DC is also given , they being the chords of the given angles BF D , CF D : hence the ratio of CD to D O , in the triangle CD O , is given ; and consequently , the angle COD will be given : which angle is the distance of the tropic from the middle point of the ecliptic between B and D : for , FPR being perpendicular to O C , and FQS perpendicular to D B , the angle QFP is equal to QO P , the points O , P , Q , F , being in a circle .
* Vide Philosophical Transactions , No 215 .
THECALCULATIO N. D N : DM : : rad .
: t. &lt; ~ s. 1/ 2 BF D : s. 1/ 2 CFD rad .
: t. &lt; ~~~ 45~ : : t. 1/ 4 BF C : t. COD~DC O/ 2 If ~ &gt; 45~ , &lt; COD &gt; DCO And if ~ &lt; 45~ , &lt; COD &lt; DC O. If the intervals between the observations are so small , that the sines differ not much from the arches , the arches B C , CD may be counted in time , and the calculation may be abbreviated thus : D M : D N : : arc .
B D : Z ( for D O ) DC+ Z : 2D C : : 1/ 4 B C : S R. Or , DMxDC+DNxB D : DMxD C : : 1/ 2 B C : S R.

