The following papers were read:1 .
" On the Temperature of Steam and its corresponding Pressure .
" By John Cur , Esq. Communicated by J. Scott Iussell , Esq. , F.R.S. The author states that it is intended in this paper to propose a simple law to determine the pressure of steam corresponding to any given temperature , irrespectively of experiment , taking as the sole datum , that the vaporizing point of water under a given pressure is 100 degrees , that number being taken to correspond with the scale of Celsius ; also to construct formula in accordance therewith ; and afterwards to compare their resultswith the actual experiments of the Academy of Sciences of Paris .
He further states that the rationale of the subsequent formule is expressed as follows .
Let it be conceived that a given quantity of water is vaporized under the condition that the pressure thereon is increased in the same ratio that the volume is increased , or that at intervals of temperature 1 , 2 , S , &amp;c. the volume is increased the same or in equal proportions ; the temperature of the volume will be increased exactly as the square of the temperature indicated by the thermometer , supposing the instrument to be a true measure of temperature , and as the square of the volume ; and the same of the pressure .
Steam being generated from an indefinite quantity of water and confined within a limited space , as in the usual boiler , he considers the foregoing case is reversed ; for the volume being constant , the action of the fire is entirely exerted in producing increased elastic tension of the vapour ; therefore the temperature of the steam at the interval 1 to 2 degrees is increased inversely in the duplicate ratio of the ratio in the ?
case first described ; that is , the pressure is increased directly at the square of the square , or fourth power of the temperature ; whence the following law .
The pressure of steam generated in the usual steam-boiler is directly proportional to the fourth power of its temperature , when measured by a true scale .
It being assumed that 100 degrees is the tenmperature of steam when its pressure is in equilibrium with a column of 30 inches of mercury , or with the pressure of one atmosphere , then F being the pressure in atmospheres , t any temtperature tA conmparison is instituted between theoretic experiments of the Academy of Sciences and the results of this forimula , from which it appears that the temperatures deduced from the formula are invariably in defect , the greatest difference being S'51 , and the least 202 .

