]\gt ; Mr. W. D. Nivcn on the Calculation [ May of certain corals , the author discusses the , classificatory position of the vegetable form .
Naming it Achlya penetrans , he suggests that it belongs to a group whose life-cycle is complicated by marine and subaerial conditions , and infers that Achlya , Saprolegnia , tis , Peronospora , sina , and possibly Bryopsis are so many names of the same organism under these different collditions .
Believing in the necessity of an arbiname , he prefers of Achlya .
an instance of a parasite what is ferax , Ktz .
, in a littoral coral is II .
the Calculation of the Trajectories of Shot .
By W. D. .
Communicated by J. CLERK MAXWELL , ofessor of Physics in the niversity of Cambridge .
Received March 24 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) The soIution of the equations of motion of a shot is necessarily approximate , because the resistance cannot be expressed by a single exact formula , and , moreover , are vely few formulae which are capable of nifording an easy solution .
The results which Hutton obtained by means of the ballistic pendulum were exhibited in the shape of a simple formula ; and in almer Piobert and Didion , also used the ballistic pendulmn , reduced their results , and were able to give simple formulae .
No one call ever , that , in point of accuracy and extent of information , results ferior to those ) Mr. Bashforth obtained by means of his screens .
Now the formulae which ppJy ouly to spherical shot ; and even for that of shot they do not with l. Bashforth 's results except for a limited rang of 1 elocities .
] ] .
Bashforth mnkes no attempt to his esults , but produces them the shape of two Tables , one for spheriffi shot , the olher for nature of the reductious of his experiments , the fortunate circumsta1lce that for a large } of lues of the ocity t varies lleiLrly as the cube of the velocity , rellder it to cxprcss the resistauce in the form here is the and iable c. In fact , if is diameter of the cross se of the shot inches , and eigbt in , the remrdation due to , is where is a lmber which is ) ulated for feet of velocity .
The question , then , the problenl of of a shot in motion and agreement ith the Tables for K. ) roblem is a very mportant one , only to the gunner but the -maker , there being many practical questions , for mple , cfed the dimen- 1876 .
] of the Trajectories of Shot .
19 sions of shot , which couId be with if there existed all easy method of calculating ranges .
Mr. Bnshforth solution in his treatise , and the object of this paper is to give other .
The expressions here proved depelld upon three , which be defined for -headed shot as follows:\mdash ; Of these the last have beeu tab forth : the is now given as as culated between every 10 feet , for which the of hrithmetical mean of K ovel .
the interval being Let A be a the of a shot ; let the ious al A be and , and the components of the city at .
Then it is that the inclillation of the hord A is in ascending in the ) It it ssnmed that the of Dlotion eeu A and tlIe alue the ing he { lroY tiot t of roblelJl , the linlits of the such ) to the t.eHtlts from { he assumption tnnte 1 case:\mdash ; , . . . . . . . . .
( a ) nber of degrees iu the A ; Mr. W. D. Niven on the Calculation . .
X , being the horizontal and vertical distances respectively between and , and the tims .
The first equation gives ; and it will in geleral be sufficient in that equation to put , because the secant of a small angle varies slowly .
If , however , the angle of projection is large , it will be necessary to operate twice with the equation ( a ) , the first time to determine an approximate value of , the next time to determiDe a more accurate value after having obtained an approximation to the correct value of .
In the ( b ) and ( c ) equations the more accurate value will be employed in the cosine and sine , which occur as factors outside of the integrals .
As an example of the method , take the case of a shot fired from a 38-ton gun .
The following are the data :Diameter of shot inches , weight 810 lbs. , angle of projection , velocity 1400 feet , height of muzzle above ground 14 feet .
Let the work be first taken over the whole of the ascending branch .
The first thing to do is to find from the formula We have log ; From the Table , Agam , Iog ' from the Tables find 1876 .
] of the Trajectories of Shot .
More accurate value of :\mdash ; 1o FronI Mr. 's Tables for and Difleremce The iectile having ascended feet will have to fall through .
In the descending branch we shall again over , because a good deal of the calculation then hitve been done for us in the work for the scending branch .
Our here is the of the last arc , so that ; ; Difference of Difference of 3912 , .
R. J. Moss on Condensation of feet to A let us gct We now put of :\mdash ; tion of 's :\mdash ; of flight The ran time of in and 4 sec. .
" " Condensation of Vapour of cury on Selcnium the Sprengel Vacuum By R. J. F.C.S. , Chemical Laboratory , Royal Dnblin Society .
Communicated by G. STONY , F.R.S. Received March 25 , 1876 .
In he course of experiments on the electrical of selenium , a bar of this substance in the vitreous state losed in a glass ttlbe hich was attached to the exhaust-tnbe of a Sprengel pump .
The bar of selenium millims. long and millims. in diameter .
Platinum wires attached to the ends of it and passed through the sides of the tnbe .
tnbe was exbausted , and ] lowed to attached to the pump for four days .
It now that the selenium had acquired a conductivity greatly exceeding th of the pure element in its most highly conducting condition .
The experiment was repeated ith the intention of observing the time reqnired to produce .
In forty-two hours the needle of a sensitive gnl-

