Interruption of A fferent and Efferent Tracts of Cerebellum .
199 " Phenomena resulting from Interruption of Afferent and Efferent Tracts of the Cerebellum .
" By J. S. RlSlEN Russell , M.D. , M.R.C.P. , Research Scholar to the British Medical Association , Assistant Physician to the Metropolitan Hospital , and Pathologist to the National Hospital for the Paralysed and Epileptic , Queen 's Square .
Communicated by Professor Victor Horsley , F.R.S. Received June 17 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1896 .
( From the Pathological Laboratory of University College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) The research was undertaken in the hope of obtaining evidence in support of or against the view that the cerebellum exercises a direct-influence on the spinal centres , as opposed to any indirect influence exerted through the agency of the cerebral cortex .
The inferior peduncle of the cerebellum was accordingly divided on one side , the organ itself and its other peduncles being otherwise left intact , and the results obtained by this procedure were controlled by experiments in which the lateral tracts of the medulla oblongata were divided on one side without injury to the pyramid on the one hand or to the posterior columns and their nuclei on the other .
Further control experiments consisted in dividing transversely the posterior columns and their nuclei a few millimetres above the calamus scriptorius , on one side , without including the lateral tracts of the medulla in the lesion .
The results obtained by these different experiments were supplemented by others in which the electrical excitability of the two cerebral hemispheres was tested and compared , immediately after division of one inferior peduncle of the cerebellum , and at some later period , such as three weeks , after the section of the peduncle ; also after partial hemisection of the medulla in which all the structures on one side were divided , with the exception of the pyramid which was left as far as possible intact .
Other experiments consisted in observing the way3 in which convulsions , induced by the intravenous injection of the essential oil of absinthe , were modified by division of one inferior peduncle of the cerebellum , by partial hemisection of the medulla in which the pyramid was the only structure left intact on one side , and by transverse section of the posterior columns and their nuclei , on one side , a few millimetres above the calamus scriptorius .
Considered in conjunction with results previously obtained by the author and others after ablation of one lateral half of the cerebellum , and after intracranial section of the auditory nerve , the results now 200 Dr. Russell .
Phenomena resulting from Interruption obtained afford valuable information with regard to many of the functions of the cerebellum ; but they are not claimed as supplying definite information on the important question as to whether the cerebellum exercises a direct downward influence on the spina ] centres or not .
Many of the results obtained suggest the possibility of such a downward influence ; but most of the effects can as readily be explained by supposing that they are the result of the interruption of afferent impulses passing from the periphery to the cerebellum .
The direction of rotation was towards the side of the lesion after division of one inferior peduncle , or in other words if , as was always the case , the left peduncle was divided , the animal rotated like a right handed screw entering an object .
The direction of rotation was thus the same as after intracranial section of the auditory nerve , and the reverse of what results on ablation of one lateral half of the cerebellum .
The bulk of the afferent impulses , whose interruption is responsible for this phenomenon , probably reach the inferior peduncle from the auditory nerve , but that all the impulses are not derived from this source was shown by the fact that lateral section of the medulla below the auditory nerve and its nuclei may result in similar rotation .
The disorders of motility which followed division of one inferior peduncle corresponded exactly with those observed after ablation of one lateral half of the cerebellum .
In view of the results obtained by Claude Bernard , and by Mott and Sherrington , as regards impairment of movement after section of sensory spinal roots , it is suggested that the defects of movement which result from section of one inferior cerebellar peduncle may be due to the interruption of such afferent impulses passing to the cerebellum , rather than to the cutting off of efferent impulses from the cerebellum to the spinal .centres .
The way in which the sensory defects correspond in distribution to the motor , and the fact that recovery of sensory conduction commences before any improvement in motor power can be detected , are held to support this view .
Cutting off of some afferent impulses can alone be considered responsible for the ocular displacements met with .
These displacements correspond with those which are the result of ablation of one lateral half of the cerebellum , the displacement of the globes being downward and to the opposite side from the lesion .
The displacements following lateral section of the medulla were the same ; but after division of the posterior columns and their nuclei on one side , the displacement of the globes was downward and to the side of the lesion .
Spasm , which was easily detected in the back and neck muscles on the side of the lesion , causing incurvation of the vertebral axis to that side , alone furnished any satisfactory information in support of the of Afferent and Efferent Tracts of the Cerebellum .
201 possible control which the cei'ebellum may exert on the spinal centres .
The state of the knee-jerks afforded no satisfactory information on this point .
The blunting of sensibility met with is held to be further proof that the cerebellum is concerned with sensory as well as motor processes , as was contended by the author in a former paper .
Faradic excitability of the opposite cerebral hemisphei*e was found to be less than of that on the side of the lesion , both when the inferior cerebellar peduncle was divided , and when partial hemisection of the medulla was performed , leaving the pyramid intact .
The most satisfactory explanation of this phenomenon appears to be that the removal of some afferent inhibitory influence from one half of the cerebellum allows this half of the organ to further inhibit the cortex of the opposite cerebral hemisphere ; an explanation in keeping with that offered when the results of ablation of the cerebellum were under consideration .
This view is strengthened by the remarkable results obtained by the intravenous injection of absinthe in animals in whom the same lesions had been previously produced , for with the pyramidal system absolutely intact on both sides , there was an entire absence of contraction of the muscles of the anterior extremity on the side of the lesion , and diminution of contraction of the muscles of the posterior extremity on this side , as compared with those of the opposite limb .
Such was the result obtained when the convulsions were induced soon after the lesion , but when induced at some remote period , such as three weeks after , the muscles of the anterior extremity on the side of the lesion contracted , though the contractions were much less powerful than were those of the opposite anterior extremity , and were often largely tonic in character .
Transverse section of the posterior columns , and their nuclei alone on one side , did not alter the character of the absinthe convulsions in such a remarkable manner as did division of the peduncle and lateral section of the medulla .
After such a lesion the muscular contractions in the anterior extremity on the side of the lesion were less powerful than were those in the opposite anterior extremity , and there was more tonus and less clonus than in the contractions on the opposite side .
Both these characters were evident in the early convulsions of a series , but became much more pronounced in the later convulsions .
The author contents himself with recording these facts , and makes no attempt to speculate as to their probable significance .
The paper is illustrated by tracings obtained of the muscular contractions resulting from excitation of the cerebral cortex with the induced current , and from the convulsions evoked by the intravenous injection of absinthe , and demonstrate the points alluded to in that part of the text which deals with these phenomena .

