A paper was read ( &lt; 0n the hereditary instinctive propensities of Animals .
" By Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. , F.R.S. The author adduces , in support of the principle he had advanced in his paper on the economy of bees , namely , that instinctive pro ?
pensities to the performance of certain actions are transmitted , independently of education , from the parent to its offspring , several facts which have fallen under his observation in the course of various experiments commenced by him nearly sixty years ago and continued to the present time .
He relates that a young terrier , whose parents had been trained to destroy pole-cats , and a young springing spaniel , whose ancestors through many generations had been employed in finding woodcocks , were reared together as companions ; and that each of them , immediately on seeing , and for the first time in its life , the particular prey to which it was guided by hereditary instinct , pur ?
sued it with intense eagerness , while it did not appear to notice that which attracted its companion .
In several instances he found that young springing spaniels , wholly inexperienced , were very nearly as expert in finding woodcocks as their well-trained parents .
The habits of the woodcock have in the course of the last sixty years undergone considerable change , the fear of man having during that period become much stronger by transmission through many successive generations .
The author believes that by continued education these hereditary propensities might besuppressed and others substituted : thus the habits of the springing spaniel would never have been acquired , if shooting on the wing had not been practised by man .
A young dog , of the variety usually called retrievers , on account of their being trained to find and recover wounded game , performed this office , although wholly untaught , quite as well as the best-instructed dog .
The male and the female parents appear to possess similar powers of transmitting to their offspring these hereditary feelings and propensities ; excepting in the case of hybrid progeny , in which the author thinks he has witnessed a decided prevalence of the character of the male parent .
With regard to dogs , the influence of one or other of the parents , and sometimes of both , may occasionally be traced , but without any constancy as to the particular predominance of either sex .

