Account of the Dissection of a Human Foetus , in which the Circulation of the Blood was carried on without a Heart .
By Mr. B. C. Brodie .
Communicated by Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 16 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 161 .
] Mr. Brodie was induced to draw up the account of this case , although other -instances are already recorded , because the child differed much less from the natural formation than usual .
Twins were produced , both still-born , at the seventh month of pregnancy .
The placenta was not preserved ; but it was remarked that the chords belonging to the two children were , at their attachment , distant about three inches from each other .
In one of these children nothing preternatural was observed .
The other was distended , and disfigured with fluid contained in two cysts under the common integuments of the neck and thorax ; but when the fluid was evacuated , the form was nearly natural , with the exception of a hare lip , and a deficiency of some of the toes and fingers .
In the brain also , and nervous system , nothing unusual was observed .
But in the thorax there was no heart , thymus gland , or pleura ; and the substances corresponding to lungs , on each side , at the bifurcation of the trachea , were no more than one third of an inch in diameter , the thorax being filled with a dense cellular substance .
The diaphragm was merely membranous .
The stomach had no cardiac orifice ; the intestines were shorter than natural ; and there was no omentum , no liver , and no gall-bladder .
At the navel entered two vessels , an artery and a vein ; the former passing along , with the urachus , to the left groin , gave off the external and internal iliacs , and then passing upwards , joined the right iliac and became aorta , having the usual branches to the viscera and parietes of the abdomen ; and when it reached the upper part of the thorax , it sent off the two subclavian arteries , and then divided into the two carotids , without forming any arch .
The course of the veins was equally simple ; but its communication with the navel was from the right groin , instead of passing along with the artery on the left side .
In the whole course of these vessels there could be discovered no direct communication between the venous and arterial systems , as usual , but merely the union at their capillary extremities , at each termination , in the foetus , and in the placenta ; " so that the placenta must have been at once the source and termination of the circulation , and the blood must have been propelled by the action of the vessels only : " and although the circulation , under these circumstances , must be supposed unusually languid , it must be remembered that in this case the whole blood of the foetus was exposed to the influence of the arterial blood of the mother , instead of that portion alone which usually branches from the general arterial system .
Various cases ( all twins ) are next cited by the author , from Merry , from Le Cat , and from Dr. Clarke , of foetuses born without heart ; and it is remarked , that all of these were smaller and less perfect than the present subject , which , in fact , was fully equal to the other foetus of the same age with itself , in which the heart was perfect .

