142 Mr. L. F. Vernon-Harcourt .
Effects of [ Jan. 30 , Observations , \amp ; c. ( continued ) .
Hydrographic Office , United States Navy .
Pilot Charts of the North Atlantic Ocean .
June\#151 ; September , and November , 1889 .
[ Sheet .
] The Office .
U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey .
Bulletin .
Nos. 9-13 .
4to .
Washington 1889 .
The Survey .
U.S. Patent Office .
Official Gazette .
Vol. XLVII .
Nos. 10-13 ; Yols .
XLV1II-XLIX .
8vo .
Washington 1889 .
The Office : Wellington :\#151 ; Mines Department .
Report on the Mining Industry of New Zealand .
1889 .
Folio .
Wellington ; Reports on Mining Machineiy and Treatment of Ores in Australian Colonies and America .
Folio .
Wellington 1889 .
The Department .
January 30 , 1890 .
Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of notice sent to the Fellows , an election was held to fill the vacancy upon the Council occasioned by the death of the Rev. S. J. Perry .
The Statutes relating to the election of the Council and the Statute relating to the election of a Member of Council upon the occurrence of a vacancy were read , and Mr. Hullce and Mr. Stainton having been , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators , the votes of the Fellows present were taken , and Mr. William Henry Mahoney Christie , Astronomer Royal , was declared duly elected .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. u Investigations into the Effects of Training Walls in an Estuary like the Mersey .
" By L. F. VERNON-HARCOURT , M.A. , M.Inst .
C.E. Communicated by A. G. VernON-Harcourt , F.R.S. Received January 21 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) A description was given in a previous paper of the results of experiments with training walls in a working model of the tidal Seine ; * and the present investigations were carried out with a similar working * ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' vol. 45 , p. 504 , and Plates 2 to 4 .
1890 .
] J raining Walls in an Estuary like the Mersey .
model of the Mersey estuary , from near Warrington to the open sea beyond the bar , made to a horizontal scale of an(^ a vertical scale of -5 o~o , an(l with a bed formed of fine Bagshot sand .
The experiments were directed to the solution of two problems , namely , ( 1 ) The influence of training walls in the wide upper estuary on the channel below Liverpool , and across the bar ; and ( 2 ) The effects of training works in the lower estuary on the channel across the bar .
The model was first worked , without modification , till a fair reproduction was obtained of the existing conditions of the estuary .
Training walls , made of strips of tin , were then inserted in the model , following the lines of the Manchester Ship-Canal Scheme of 1884 , down the middle of the upper estuary , for which the present line of canal , in course of construction , skirting the Cheshire shore , was substituted in 1885 .
This modification soon produced a change in the model , which no previous working had effected ; for , though the channel between the training wralls was deepened , the upper estuary began to silt up as the working of the model proceeded , and the channel immediately below Liverpool began to shoal , till at last the main navigation channel below the " narrows " became very shallow for some distance .
This result solves a very much disputed question as to the effects of these training works , and , together with the results of the Seine model , affords grounds for the conclusion that training walls placed in a sandy estuary , where sandbanks exist below them , will lead to accretion behind them .
As the channel in the lower estuary of the Mersey is almost wholly maintained by the tidal water flowing into and out of the estuary above , accretion in the upper estuary would necessarily produce a deterioration in the channel below .
The model was next restored to its original form , and training-walls were inserted in the lower estuary , in continuation of the narrow channel between Liverpool and Birkenhead , gradually diverging out with a trumpet-shaped outlet , so as not to impede the tidal influx into the upper estuary .
The scour through this trained channel gradually washed away a sandbank to the north of the outlet , and eventually formed a channel to the north of the previous channel , towards Formby Point , in the model , with a minimum depth considerably more than was previously obtained across the bar .
The bed of the model was then restored to its previous state ; but the training walls in the lo\ver estuary were retained , and a sandbank impeding the outlet was removed to the level of the bar .
The scour through the trained channel , with this arrangement , produced a more direct and uniform channel than in the previous case , with a similar increase in depth .
144 Mr. C. S. Sherrington .
outlying [ Jan. 30 , These experiments indicate that , whereas training walls in the upper estuary would be injurious , owing to the resulting accretion , training walls in the lower estuary would improve the depth of the outlet channel ; and that such training walls , combined with dredging , offer the best prospect of forming a direct stable , and deepened channel across the bar .
II .
" On outlying Nerve-cells m the Mammalian Spinal Cord .
" By Ch. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.B. , \amp ; c. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received January 30 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) Gaskell has shown* that in the cord of the alligator scattered nerve-cells are to be seen at the periphery of the lateral column .
Although nerve-cells appear to be absent from that position in the spinal cord of Mammalia as represented by the rabbit , cat , dog , calf , monkey , and man , yet there are in these animals isolated nerve-cells present in the white matter of the cord , not only in the deeper portions of the lateral column , but in the anterior and posterior columns as well .
In the anterior columns occasional nerve-cells , of the multipolar kind , lie among those fibre-bundles which pass between the deeper mesial border of the anterior horn and the antei'ior commissure at the base of the anterior fissure .
They , in the instances observed , are smaller than the large cells characteristic of the anterior horn , and lie with two of the processes directed parallel with the horizontal transverse fibres among which they are placed .
Such cells have been observed in the human cord and in the cord of the dog and bonnet monkey .
In the lateral column , of the spinal cord of man and the other animals named above , it is common to find outlying members of the group of small cells of the lateral horn , Clarke 's tractus intermedio-lateralis , situated in the white matter , distinctly beyond the limits of the grey .
Some outlying cells here are placed at a great distance from the grey .
These are all probably to be considered members of the intermedio-lateral group .
Their similarity to those cells in form and size is striking .
They are generally placed upon , or at least in close connexion with , the fine connective-tissue septa which pass across the white matter .
It is probable that the cells are connected with the medullated nerve-fibres running along these septa .
The cells are fusiform , with the longer axis parallel to the direction of the nerve-fibres running in the septa .
In the part of the lateral column adjacent to the lateral reticular * ' Proceedings of the Physiological Society , ' 1885 .

