]\gt ; An Instrument for Measuring the Distance between the Centres of of the Two Eyes .
By H. S. RYLAND and B. T. LANG , F.R.C.S. Communicated by George J. Burch , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received January 9 , \mdash ; Read February 29 , 1912 .
) A knowledge of the distance between the two eyes being required in dealing with the problems of binocular vision , the instruments described in this paper may be of interest to physiologists .
All those methods which involve measurement of the distance between the pupils ( or other external parts of the eyes ) are liable to errors , for the following reasons:\mdash ; 1 .
It is difficult to eliminate parallax between the scale or index of the measuring instrument and the eyes .
2 .
The distance between the pupils is affected by the convergence of the optical axes , and still more by the abnormal direction of either .
3 .
It is difficuIt to ensure the eyes being kept still during the process of measuring .
By the method herein described , advantage is taken of the mobility of the eyes , which is the cause of this very difficulty , to measure the one distance that cannot vary , namely , that between the optical centres of rotation .
So far as we have been able to find , this has not been done before .
We have made two instruments , each involving the same eneral principles in a different form .
The first form ( fig. consists of a suitable base , shaped at one end to fit the forehead , and carrying at the other end a vulcanite plate upoIl which slides a vertical index , against a scale .
In the base itself there is a vertical index which may be placed at either or E. When in use Messrs. Ryland and Lang .
On [ Jan. 9 , the instrument is held in front of the face with the shaped end against the forehead .
One eye , say the left , is covered , and the patient is instructed , the first index being at , to move the scale index along the plate it apparently lies just behind the first index at .
Without altering the position of the instrument , a similar observation is made with the other eye , the scale index being moved to .
The first index is now moved to and similar observations taken for each eye , giving the readings and respectively for the scale index .
Then ( in fig. ) joinLR , and produce DE to and to N. Let the distance Let be the position of the right eye and that of the left , and let be the distance between the centres of rotation .
Then may be determined graphically by a simple construction , or , assuming the base line RL to be parallel to , may be calculated as follows : From fig. 1 we have and from which , or ) .
In practice , as only two variables occur in this equation , namely and a table may be computed and used with the instrument .
In the second form ( fig. 2 ) the insbrument has three fixed vertical indices , , and M. The vulcanite plate and sliding index are similar to those employed in the first form .
With the left eye covered , the white index is moved till it is apparently behind at , and at .
Similar observations are taken with the left eye , the scale index being moved till it is apparently behind the indices and at and respectively .
As with the first instrument desc1ibed , the distance may be obtained from a simple 1912 .
] Distance of Centres of of the Two geometrical construction , or , parallelism between the base line RL and the scale may be calculated from the following data : Let the distance KM Then from fig. 2 we have , or ; that is .
Since is constant for a given instrument , the values of in practics be obtained from a table computed in terms of and Further , it may be pointed out that in all the methods hitherto employeci for measuring the distance between the centres , it is essential the subject should have binocular vision , in order to enable him to fix an ob.iect with both eyes simultaneously .
By either of the methods just described it is possible to measure the distance between the centres of persons who cannot fuse the images of the two eyes , or even , provided the vision of each eye be sufficient , to measure this distance in the case of persons who squint .
Moreover , it is not necessary that the vision should be distinct so long as the eye can distinguish the index .
Good measurements can be made even though the definition is not sufficient to enable large print to be read .
Various methods may be used to increase accuracy of scale reading , such as verniers and multiplying levers .

