1873 .
] On Normal Primary Heptyl Alcohol .
393 in the specific gravities .
The cold stratum mentioned on 23rd , 24th , and 26th August was wanting .
Black-Sea Temperatures .
Endeavours were made to get a series of densities and temperatures in the Black Sea , in order to ascertain the conditions at all depths .
The steam cutter with much difficulty , not unattended with danger , obtained an offing of six miles on the 17th of October .
The wind was strong and the sea high , but time would not allow of choice of days , and the N.E. wind was almost permanent .
The results obtained show a uniform density of 1*012 from surface to bottom in a depth of 38 fathoms .
Temperatures showed great decrease at the bottom , and the cold stratum observed on the 23rd , 24th , and 26th of August was found here also . .
, ' X. " Normal Primary Heptyl Alcohol .
" By Harry Grimshaw and Carl Schorlemmer , F.R.S. Received May 6 , 1873 .
One of us has shown that by oxidizing the primary heptyl alcohol from normal heptane acid is formed , which is identical with oenanthylic acid from cenanthol* .
( Enanthylic acid is therefore a normal acid ; and as by the distillation of castor-oil any quantity of oenanthol may be obtained , this aldehyde appears to be the best starting-point for the preparation of the hitherto almost unknown normal heptyl compounds .
Some years ago Bouis and Carlet found that , by the action of zinc and acetic acid on cenanthol , a heptyl acetate is formed , which yielded a heptyl alcohol boiling at 165'+ .
If these statements be correct , this alcohol cannot be a normal compound , for its boiling-point is only 8 ' higher than that of normal hexyl alcohol .
One of us , on repeating these experiments , did not , however , succeed in obtaining a heptyl alcohol , the chief product of the reaction consisting of high-boiling condensation-products of oenantholj .
To convert oenanthol into the alcohol we have therefore made use of the excellent method which Lieben and Rossi have employed so successfully for the reduction of other aldehydes .
CEnantholwas shaken with fifty times its weight of water , and sodium amalgam and an equivalent quantity of sulphuric acid were gradually added .
The product of the reaction was a mixture of heptyl alcohol and another very high-boiling liquid , the separation of which could be easily effected by distillation .
The primary heptyl alcohol thus obtained is a limpid , somewhat oily liquid , possessing an aromatic odour and boiling at 175'\#151 ; 177 ' , if the * Phil. Trans , yol .
clxii .
p. 111 .
t Comptes Rendus , vol. 1 .
p. 140 .
+ Ann. Ch. Pharm. yol .
cxxxvi .
p. 261 .
Prof. W. C. Williamson on the Fossil [ June 19 whole column of mercury is surrounded by the vapour .
The high boiling-point is a further proof that this alcohol , as well as cenanthyhc acid , is a normal compound .
We are now acquainted with the complete series of normal alcohols up to octyl alcohol .
\#163 ; he following Table shows that the boiling-points in this series increase very regular for each increase of CH2 .
The boiling-points which are here given have been determined , either by the whole column of the thermometer being immersed in the vapour , or , if this was not the case , the required corrections were applied :\#151 ; Table of Normal Alcohols .
Boiling- point .
Difference . .
Observer .
Ethyl alcohol , C2 He 0 . .
78-4 6 Kopp .
Propyl alcohol , C3 H8 0 . .
97-98 19 Different observers .
Butyl alcohol , C4 H10 0 . .
116-0 18-5 Lieben and Rossi .
Pentyl alcohol , C5 H12 0 . .
137-0 21* Lieben and Rossi .
Hexyl alcohol , C6 H14 0 . .
157-0 20 Franchimont and Zincke .
Heptyl alcohol , C7 H16 0 . .
175-177 19 H. Gr .
and C. S. Octyl alcohol , C8 H18 0 . .
196-197 Mean ... 20 .
19-6 Renesse .
XI .
" On the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures.\#151 ; Part V. Asterophy Hites .
By W. C. Williamson , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural History in Owens College , Manchester .
Received May 17 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) On two occasions the author directed attention , in the Proceedings of the Royal Society ( vol. xx .
pp. 95 \amp ; 435 ) , to the structure of some stems which appeared to him to belong to the well-known genus phyllites , briefly pointing out at the same time their apparent relations to a strobilus of which he had previously published figures and description^ ( Transactions of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester , third series , vol. v. 1871 ) under the name of VoTkmannia Dawsom .
in the present memoir he gives a detailed exposition of the various j the plant , including the roots , rootlets , stems , branches , leaves , and irui , in different stages of their development .
This is done chie y m twj modifications of the primary type\#151 ; one from the Lower Coal-measures Oldham in Lancashire , the other from those of Burntisland .
Jn youngest state , the Oldham form first appears as a mere twig , aVjjJ| central fibro-vascular bundle enclosed in a double bark .
T e vase \#166 ; bundle consists entirely of vessels which are chiefly , if not w o y , o " Tj

