180 Mr. J. N. Lockyer on Spectrum Analysis .
[ Dec. 12 , the last four years has consisted in the elimination of the effects of impurities .
I am therefore aware of the great necessity for caution in the spectroscopic examination of various substances .
There is , however , a number of bodies which permit of the inquiry into their simple or complex nature being made in such a manner that the presence of impurities will be to a certain extent negligable .
I have brought this subject before the Royal Society at its present stage in the hope that possibly others may be induced to aid inquiry in a region in which the work of one individual is as a drop in the ocean .
If there is anything in what I have said , the spectra of all the elementary substances will require to be re-mapped\#151 ; and re-mapped from a new standpoint ; further , the arc must replace the spark , and photography must replace the eye .
A glance at the red end of the spectrum of almost any substance incandescent in the voltaic arc in a spectroscope of large dispersion , and a glance at the maps prepared by such eminent observers as Huggins and Thalen , who have used the coil , will give an idea of the mass of facts which have yet to be recorded and reduced before much further progress can be made .
In conclusion , I would state that only a small part of the work to which I have drawn attention is my own .
In some cases I have merely , as it were , codified the work done by other observers in other countries .
With reference to that done in my own laboratory I may here repeat what I have said before on other occasions , that it is largely due to the skill , patience , and untiring zeal of those who have assisted me .
The burthen of the final reduction , to which I have before referred , has fallen to Mr. Miller , my present assistant ; while the mapping of the positions and intensities of the lines was done by Messrs. Friswell , Meldola , Ord and Starling , who have successively filled that post .
I have to thank Corporal Ewings , R.E. , for preparing the various diagrams which I have submitted to the notice of this Society .
December 19 , 1878 .
W. SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; On the Spectrum of the Electric Discharge .
[ " Note of an Experiment on the Spectrum of the Electric Discharge .
" By the Hon. Sir W. R. Grove , D.C.L. , Y.P.R.S. Communicated December 19 , 1878 .
The difference between the appearances at the positive and negative terminal which an electric discharge presents in vacuum tubes has struck many observers .
The negative terminal is surrounded in what is called an air vacuum with a blue glow extending to a considerable distance from the platinum wire , and is generally bounded by a dark space separating it from the crimson light of the positive wire ; it is affected by the magnet , the light following the direction of the magnetic curves , and a deposit of platinum on the glass tube appears in time in the vicinity of the negative which is absent at the positive terminal .
I do not propose to enter more fully on these distinctions which have been largely experimented on by M. Gassiot , Professor Plucker , and to some extent by myself .
The recent announcement of Mr. Norman Lockyer of observations on the spectra of bodies which were assumed to be elementary , but which showed lines seeming to denote that they were compound , led me to repeat some old experiments of mine on the spectrum of the electric discharge , one result of which 1 have ventured to communicate to the Royal Society .
I had intended to mention them in the discussion of Mr. Lockyer 's paper , but was not able to be present at it .
On November 24th last I examined , with a small spectroscope , by Browning , the electric discharge in some Geissler 's air vacuum tubes , three of which X possessed .
In these , which were of diff erent shapes and sizes , the effects were the same .
The globes into which the negative wire protruded wTere filled with a blue light more diffused as it became more distant from the wire .
The rest of the tube was filled with a crimsou light appearing to issue from the positive wire , and this light was striated in the narrow parts of the tabes .
The spectrum from what I will call the positive light presented a series of numerous and variously coloured bands not greatly differing in brightness , and showing what has been called the fluted or channelled spectrum .
The spectrum of the negative light was extremely different .
Four bright lines divided the spectrum , viz. , yellow , green , blue , and violet respectively , the distance between them increasing towards the violet end .
There was also a faint line at the extreme red , and the red end of the spectrum was divided into two different tints , terminating with the bright yellow line .
In the positive spectrum there was a wide black band , apparently an absorption band , overlapping the yellow and a portion of the orange space .
On looking for a longer time at the spectrum of the negative light , my eye becoming more accustomed to it , I became able to detect other 182 Sir W. R. " Grove on an Experiment on [ Dec ; 19 , bands between the bright lines , and on attaching a smallprism ( with which the spectroscope was provided ) in front of the slit , so that the separate spectra of the positive and negative lights could be juxtaposed , I could trace several of the bands which appeared quite distinctly in the positive spectrum , into the negative one ; but in the latter they were very faint , while the converse case obtained with the four bright lines I have mentioned , which were brilliant in the negative spectrum and faint or normal in the positive .
Although the four bright lines standing out in strong relief in the negative spectrum was the more striking phenomenon to the eye , yet the black band in the positive appearing in the space corresponding to the bright yellow light in the negative spectrum is equally or possibly more important .
The positive light , far the brightest to the eye , is diffused into a fluted spectrum of substantially equal intensity throughout , while the negative dim light is concentrated into brilliant lines of intense luminosity .
Another tube in which the vacuum was , I have no doubt , produced by the absorption of carbonic acid by potash , and which may be called a carbonic acid vacuum , gave a very different result from the three I have mentioned .
In it the light throughout was striated and blue , or bluish , with a slight purple tinge pervading the negative glow .
With this tube the spectra were strikingly different from those in the air vacuo .
There were in the negative spectrum of this tube six bright lines , viz. , extreme red , orange , greenish-yellow , green , greenish-blue , and violet .
The same lines with one exception were visible and equally prominent throughout the whole of the tube .
That exception , which was noticed by Dr. Frankland , to whom I showed my experiments , was the extreme red line which was apparent only in the spectrum from the negative glow .
On juxtaposing , by means of the prism , this spectrum with the spectrum of the negative light in an air vacuum tube , one only of the lines coincided , viz. , the green line , the others were in entirely distinct parts of the spectrum ; this was to be expected , as the one tube would give mainly a nitrogen spectrum , the other a carbonic oxide one .
I have long been convinced , and this is now , I believe , the prevalent opinion , that the light of the electric discharge is an incandescence of the intermedium through which it passes , and of the terminals themselves ( see " Correlation of Physical Forces , " 6th edit .
, pp. 75 , et seq. ' ) .
If this be so , then , the above experiments , i.e. , those on the positive and negative spectra in the same tube , must be either different spectra of the same incandescent substances , or the attenuated gases must be differently decomposed or united in the different parts of the tube , or a different character of electric polarity must ensue in the positive 1878 .
] Spectrum of the Electric .
183 and negative portions of the gas .
The first of the above conditions can only result from difference of heat , which is known to produce different spectra from the same gas .
I do not think the effects are due to difference of temperature .
It is true that the negative electrode is more heated than the positive in the electric discharge in vacuo , but the heat disseminated by it throughout the negative glow produces in its totality but a slight rise in temperature throughout the volume of the negative glow .
1st .
If it be the effect of heat it must be what may be termed molecular heat , as the change in the character of the spectrum being comparatively sudden between the negative and positive light is against the phenomena being caused by change of temperature throughout .
2ndly .
Is it caused by chemical decomposition ?
This is possible , but a different chemical effect pervading two definite portions of the electric discharge is a new effect and not to be hastily assumed .
I have shown ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1852 ) that the electric discharge has an electro-chemical polarity when acting on attenuated gases , the positive terminal producing an oxidating , and the negative a deoxidating effect ; but this effect in my experiments only manifested itself at the terminals , although it may molecularly pervade the gas .
3rdly .
Is it due to electric polarity ?
I incline to think it is , but to a polarity so affecting the molecules of the gas , that , if not actually decomposed , they have something like a chemical polarity impressed upon them .
This would to some extent favour Mr. Lockyer 's view , though not supporting it to its full extent .
The results may help to explain the phenomena observed in some stars where one or more lines belonging to the spectrum of a given Substance is observed , while others are wanting ; and if stars have their atmospheres in a state of electric polarity , as is to some extent the case with this earth , or of electric discharge , as is the case with this earth when the Aurora Borealis or Australis is visible , the spectra would differ more or less from those normally observed here .
If the spectrum of the negative light were examined through a series of prisms , there can , I think , be little doubt that the very faint intermediate lines would be obliterated by absorption in passing through the glasses , while the bright lines would remain , and thus the spectrum of a nebula would be presented ; but it would be but a partial representation of the true spectrum , and the line spectrum seen in the nebulae may thus be a partial spectrum .
P.S. December 23 .
My attention has been called to Mr. De La Rue 's paper recently printed in the " Phil. Trans. , " which , although he kindly sent me a copy , I had not read when I made the above communication .
He finds Mr. G. H. Darwin on [ Dec. 19 , in the spectra of hydrogen vacua a notable difference in the lines j seen in the negative light , sometimes all and sometimes only one of the recognised lines of hydrogen being visible in that , and in many cases not visible in other parts of the tube .
I had tried an experiment with a hydrogen vacuum tube of Geissler ; but in that the difference was but slight between the positive and negative lights , though it was very great between the light in the narrow central part of the tube and in the wide portions on each side of it , the crimson \lt ; light in the narrow tube giving a brilliant three-line spectrum , and the blue light , both on the positive and negative side , , giving a compara- \gt ; tively dim fluted spectrum of many bands , The difference between the light of narrow and wide parts of the vacuum tubes has , I believe been noticed ; it is in this case the converse of the effects observed by / me in the air vacuum .
II .
" On the Precession of a Viscous Spheroid , and on the Remote History of the Earth .
" By George H. Darwin , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. W. L. Glaisher , F.R.S. Received July 22 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is a continuation of a previous one on the bodily tides of homogeneous viscous spheroids ( read on May 23rd ) , and it contains the investigation of the rotation of such a body as modified by the tides raised in it by external disturbing bodies .
The earth is taken as the type of the rotating body , and the sun and moon as types of the disturbing ones ; this plan not only affords a useful vocabulary , but permits an easy transition from questions of abstract dynamics to those of direct applicability to the physical history of the earth .
In the paper on tides it was shown that , if the disturbing influence be expressed as a potential , which is expanded as a series of solid harmonics , each multiplied by a simple time harmonic , then each such term in the expansion corresponds with a tide in a viscous or imperfectly elastic sphere , which is independent of the tides corresponding to all other terms .
Also the height of every such tide is expressible as a fraction of the corresponding equilibrium tide of a perfectly fluid spheroid , and the tide is subject to a retardation which is a function of the frequency of the generating term , and of the constants expressive of the physical constitution of the distorted spheroid .
The case of the moon , supposed to move in a circular orbit in the ecliptic , is treated first .
The tide generating potential , of that body ( of the type cos\#174 ; \#151 ; -j* ) has first to be expanded in the desired form ; * Terms of higher orders are shown to be negligeable .

