[ 15 ] II .
On Megaladapis madagascariensis , an Extinct Gigantic from gascar ; with Remarks on the Associated and on its Geological .
By C. I. Forsyth Major .
Communicated by Henry Woodward , LL. D. , V.P.G.S. Received June 14 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1893 .
[ Plates 5-7 .
] Contents .
I.\#151 ; -Introduction . .
, . .
... ... .
II.\#151 ; Description of the skull ... ... ... ... ... . .
III .
\#151 ; Affinities .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... IV .
\#151 ; Primitive ancestor or degenerate descendant ?
V.\#151 ; Systematic position . . . . . . . . .
VI.\#151 ; Associated Fauna . .
... . . . . .
VII.\#151 ; Geological age , . . . . . . . . . .
Page I. Introduction .
More than forty years ago , the scientific world was startled by the discovery made in Madagascar , and announced by Isidore Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire to the French Academy of Science , * of the eggs and bones of a gigantic bird , to which the name of Aepyornis maximus was assigned .
Though , these were not the first proofs of an extinct Vertebrate Fauna in that island , t the discovery of eggs , said to have eight times the volume of those of Struthio , was of a nature to excite a wider interest , and gave rise to many speculations .
* Isid .
Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire , " Notice sir des ossements et des ceufs trouves a Madagascar dans des alluvions modernes et provenant d'un oiseau gigantesque .
" ' Comptes Rend .
Acad. Sc. ' du 27 janv .
1851 , p. 101-107 .
Of .
'Ann .
des Sc. Not .
, ' 3 serie , " Zoologie , " vol. 14 , Paris 1850 , p. 206-213 .
t See ' Proc. of the Geol .
Soc. of London , ' vol. 1,1833 , No. 31 , p. 479 .
P. Gervais , in 'Diction .
des Sc. Natur .
, ' Supplement .
1841 , p. 254 : " L'Autruche d'Afrique n'a donne lieu A aucun travail nouveau que nous connaissions .
Nous dirons seulement , comme pouvant se rapporter a un oiseau du group de ces animaux , que nous avons vu , il y a plusieurs annees , des debris d'ceufs qui avoir du du volume de ceux des Autruches , et que M. Goudot avait trouves dans l'ile de Madagascar , mais sans avoir a leur sujet des renseignements positifs .
" , 6.3.94 Since that time , occasional , though not numerous discoveries , to which I shall have incidentally to refer hereafter , have somewhat increased our knowledge of the so-called sub-fossil Vertebrate Fauna of Madagascar .
\#169 ; Recently , the British Museum acquired remains of Vertebrata , discovered in a fossil condition in various parts of the island .
One of the most remarkable is a Mammalian skull of strange aspect , which forms the subject of the present communication , and for which the name of Megaladapis madagascari is proposed .
I am indebted to Dr. Henry Woodward , Keeper of the Geological Department , British Museum ( Natural History ) , for the permission to describe it .
The specimen was sent from Madagascar by Mr. J. T. Last , a collector of the Hon. Walter Rothschild , and is said to have been found in a marsh at Amboulisatra , on the south-west coast of Madagascar , together with scanty remains of several other Vertebrata , to be referred to hereafter .
II .
Description of the Skull .
The base of the skull being wanting in almost the whole length of the floor of the brain-case , the exceedingly short and low brain-cavity is exhibited .
The bullse ossese are broken away , and the foremost facia !
portion is also wanting , so that nothing can be said about the anterior parts of the dentition , the canines and incisors .
The right and left ramus of a mandibula , somewhat incomplete in their anterior and posterior portions , were found together with the cranium , and , apparently , belong to the same specimen .
The length of the whole skull may be approximately calculated at 250 millims. , and supposes an animal of from three to four times the size of a common Cat. By the worn condition of the teeth , the obliteration of most of the sutures of the very thick bones , and the strongly developed crests , it is shown that the individual was much aged .
One .of the most striking features of this cranium consists in the enormous lateral development of the interorbital region of the frontals , so as to form a broad and elongate roof over the orbits , which protrude in a tubular form outwards and forwards , and are encircled by a complete bony ring , with thick rounded margins .
Compared to the size of the skull , the diameter of the orbits is small , suggesting diurnal habits .
Beneath the postorbital bar , the orbits open freely into the temporal fossa .
The foramina lacrymalia are situated externally to the- margin of the orbits .
The lacrymal bones , as far as can be ascertained , are of small dimensions .
On account of the partial obliteration of their sutures , the limits of the nasals cannot be quite exactly determined ; these bones are not flattened , but convex from side to side , and separated by a groove from the maxillaries ; they extend backwards with attenuated dimensions as far as the middle of the orbits .
The facial portion is elongate and the maxillaries high .
AN EXTINCT GIGANTIC LEMUROID FROM MADAGASCAR .
The middle line of the frontals is feebly convex , forming an anterior continuation of the sagittal crest ; from the convex middle line the frontals slope down gently on both sides , the roof of the orbits being again gently raised , so that the frontal region between these last and the middle line is somewhat depressed .
Behind the orbits the frontals are much narrowed , and stretch backwards on the superior surface as well as laterally , the almost obliterated coronal suture being distant 31 millims. from the posterior margin of the orbits .
Corresponding to the suture we find a very slight lateral constriction of the bone , behind which the parietals extend , with a breadth about equal to that of the frontals , and separated in the middle by a sagittal crest , which is less remarkable for its height than for its extraordinary thickness and flatness .
Backwards from the orbits the crests divide into two portions , which continue anteriorly in a curved line , and come to an end on the roofs of the orbits .
Behind the molar series the maxillaries stretch upwards and backwards to an unusually great extent , and in this region are greatly inflated by aerial sinuses , which extend forward in the facial region above the molar series , and communicate behind with the frontal . .
The occipital region is truncated , and divided by a median strong and sharp crest into two hollows .
It is considerably narrowed , as is the whole of the skull , backwards from the orbits .
The vertical direction of the occipital condyles , as well as the narrow but high foramen magnum , appears to be in connection with this lateral compression of the skull .
The zygomatic arch is high and but moderately projecting outwards , thus contributing to the general narrowed appearance of the posterior portion of the skull .
The cranio-facial angle is extremely obtuse , as in most lower Mammals ; but whilst in these last thS angle is open downwards , it would seem to be open upwards in Megaladapis , in consequence of both the facial and the cranial portion being somewhat bent upwards , the first anteriorly , the second posteriorly .
Corresponding with this upward bending of the facial portion , the palate is convex in an antero-posterior direction , the convexity looking downwards .
Other characters of the cranium will be mentioned and discussed in the following paragraphs .
Mandibula.\#151 ; The symphysial suture is completely obliterated .
The inferior outline of the bone forms an almost straight line , with a slight downward bending anteriorly .
The upper alveolar margin is far from parallel with the lower one ; when this last is held horizontally it appears that the upper margin , and accordingly the series of the teeth , form an arched line , curving upwards anteriorly .
This structure corresponds to a similar upward curving of the superior dental series , and is , of course , in relation with the upward bending of the facial portion .
As a consequence , the anterior portion of the horizontal mandibular ramus is considerably higher than is the hinder ( see measurements ) .
The lower third of the horizontal ramus is attenuated , as compared to the upper two-thirds , there being a longitudinal groove on MDCCCXCIY.\#151 ; B. I ) the inner inferior part of the bone , more deepened in the posterior moiety , more shallow anteriorly , The ascending ramus is considerably attenuated , and , as far as can be judged from the part preserved ( the posterior and superior portion being broken ) , it was notably elongate antero-posteriorly .
In the right mandibular ramus four teeth are preserved , viz. , the three molar and the posterior premolar ; anterior to this last , the alveolus of a second , double-rooted premolar is visible .
The cusps of the inferior molars are obliquely disposed , the two outer ones alternating with the three inner ones , the anterior of which is very feebly developed , The two outer cusps are divided by a sulcus , which scarcely reaches the centre of the molar .
The third molar is provided with a talon , consisting of a single strong cusp .
An outer basal cingulum exists on the outer side of the three molars .
The premolar has a single outer cusp , from the anterior and posterior side of which depart two crescents , which terminate on the interior side in a moderately developed anterior and posterior cusp ; while between them a central interior cusp , somewhat stronger , and almost completely coalesced with the single outer cusp , is seen .
The superior molars ( three in number ) are of a simple tritubercular type , there being two external and one internal cusp .
This last is deeply divided from the postero-external cusp ; but from its anterior side a crest extends towards the outer part of the antero-external cusp .
The superior premolars were three in number , as far as can be judged ; two are in place , and anteriorly to them the alveoli of a two-fanged tooth are visible on the right side .
The two premolars have each one outer and one inner cusp ; and , like the molar , an inner and two outer roots .
Anterior to the alveoli is a diastema , which on the right side is preserved to the extent of 10 millims. ; further on the bone is broken .
Measurements of the Teeth .
From the posterior margin of m3 sup. to the anterior margin of the alveolus of y\gt ; 3 , 74'5 millims. mz sup. , greatest length , 17*8 millims. ; greatest breadth , 14*6 millims. m2 sup. 17 15-8 " mx sup. " 13*5 " " 127 " Pi sup. " 10 97 Pz sup. 10*3 " oo CJt Breadth of the outer margins of the alveoli of y\gt ; 3 sup. : 9*8 millims. Fragment of Eight Maxillary of a Second Specimen .
m3 , greatest length , 18*5 millims. m2 , , , 18 " ; greatest breadth ( at the base ) 15*5 millims. AN EXTINCT JGIGANTIC LEMUROID FROM MADAGASCAR .
Inferior Molars .
Length of m3\#151 ; mx ... . .
Pi " ml ... . .
" ... ... ... ... ... ... .
" w3 . . . . .
Mandibula .
52'5 millijns .
10 13 .
" 15*5 " 23*5 Height of the horizontal ramus beneath the anterior margin of 'plt 55 millims. " " " \#187 ; posterior " m3 , 40 " Dimensions of the Skull .
From under margin of foramen magnum to a line uniting the anterior margins of the alveoli of y\gt ; 3 . . . . . . ? .
* . . . .
Greatest breadth ( between the middle of the orbits ) ... ... ... ... ... Approximate length of the frontalia in the middle line ... ... ... ... .
Length of the undivided sagittal crest ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Foramen magnum to posterior part of palate . .
' ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Greatest breadth between the zygomatic arches . .
... ... ... ... ... .
Approximate greatest breadth of nasalia ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Breadth of frontalia ( narrowest part ) at sutura coronal is . . . . .
Breadth of palate between the postero-external angles of the last molars , , " " alveoli of the last molars . . . . .
Approximate length of brain cavity ( from under margin of the foramen magnum to the boundary between cerebral and olfactory fossa ) .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 195 millimSi 111 )J 47*5 yy 72*3 yy 130*3 yy 105 yy 34 yy 37*5 yy 55*8 yy 48 yy 71*5 yy III .
Affinities .
A superficial examination of the skull of Megaladapis will certainly not suggest its classification amongst the Lemuroidea , from which it seems , d prion , precluded by its comparatively enormous size .
Besides , we associate in our mind with the idea of a Lemurid cranium large orbits , approaching closely in the middle line and directed straight forward ; a rounded and relatively large cranium proper ; the covering of the brain-case due chiefly to the parietals , the frontals extending laterally backwards but slightly from the orbits , and the squamosals not rising high up vertically to meet the parietals ; almost general absence of crests , which , when present ( Tarsius , Galago , Lepidolemur ) , are but feebly developed ; a slender zygomatic arch ; long persistence of the sutures .
In all these characters the skull before us , as described in the preceding paragraph , is the exact reverse of what , judging from those Lemurids which are most familiar to us , we are inclined to consider as typical of the Lemurid skull , whereas , on the other hand , some features in the " physiognomy " of our fossil cranium seem to point to quite other directions .
These we have first to considei .
The high and moderately outward-curved zygomatic arch ; the backward prolongation of a rather narrow frontal region , which is continued with a slight constriction into an equally narrow parietal region ; the squamosals extending rather high upwards to meet the parietals , and thus partaking to a considerable extent in the covering of the brain-case ; the strongly developed sagittal crest , concealing somewhat the depressed form of the skullall these are features which at once call to mind the cranium of a Marsupial , and especially P Added to this , the narrow , short , and low brain-case , indicated externally by some of the characters mentioned ( and for which the only analogy is found amongst Marsupialia and Xnsectivora , e.g. \gt ; the Centetida , considered to be amongst the most lowly organized of all placental Mammalia ) , would seem to afford a strong aprioristic assumption against the association of Megaladapis with any of the Lemuroidea .
Besides , there are other features in the skull of Megaladapis which form some approach towards the South American Howlers ( ) .
In Megaladapis , as well as in Marsupialia ( e.g. , Thylaciuus , Phascolarctos ) , the cranial portion of the skull is situated at a considerably higher level than the facial portion when the palate is horizontal ; this , in the Marsupials , is exclusively owing to the small dimensions of the brain cavity .
In Mycetes , although this genus is provided with a much more voluminous brain-case than the Marsupials and Megaladapis , the back part of the skull is still more elevated above the facial portion , and especially above its posterior moiety .
This conformation is the result of the upward bending of the posterior part of the cranial portion , and partly of an equal upward bending of the anterior part of the snout , which result in the well-known elongate pyramidal shape of the Mycetes skull .
At the same time the palate is arched downwards antero-posteriorly .
It has already been pointed out that Megaladapis presents similar characters .
However , the bending up of the anterior facial portion , and , as a consequence , the downward convexity of the palate , are more strongly developed in Mycetes .
In relation with this conformation is the considerable ' hollowing at the roots of the nasals in Mycetes , whereas in Megaladapis , although the upper profile of its cranium slopes down abruptly from behind forwards , as in the former , the line formed by the profile is almost a straight one , there being but a very slight hollowing anterior to the orbits .
The occiput is truncated in both .
The curious shape of the Howler s skull is partly related to the peculiar modification of the hyoid bone , with which is in relation , too , the considerable development of the mandibular rami .
As far as can be judged from the somewhat incomplete condition of the mandible of Megaladapis , the ascending portion was unusually elongate antero- AN EXTINCT GIGANTIC LEMUROID FROM MADAGASCAR .
21 , posteriorly , though vertically it extends less than in Mycetes .
There exists , therefore , a strong assumption that , as in Mycetes , the Malagassy fossil was provided with vocal organs of unusual size .
This specialization , however , does not in the least imply a nearer relationship with Mycetes , for in numerous other characters of its skull dapis departs from the South American genus .
I have placed in the strongest possible light the reasons which might be advanced against ranging Megaladapis amongst the Lemuroidea ; we have now to review and weigh them , one after the other .
As to the shape and extension of the interorbital frontal region , Tarsius represents one extreme , the orbits coming almost in contact in the middle line .
But , proceeding from this genus , we meet with all possible gradations in this respect , the stages being Nycticebus , Hapalemur , Lemur , and lastly the Indrisince , in which the interorbital region is considerably extended in a lateral direction , and most so in Avahis , though still much less than in Megaladapis , which presents the opposite extreme of Tarsius .
The general depression of the interorbital region of Megaladapis is to be seen as well in the Tertiary Lemuroid Adapts ; amongst existing forms in Lepidolemur , and to a somewhat lesser degree in Hapalemur .
Neither is the anterior direction of the orbits a constant character of Lemuroids ; within the subfamilies Galagince { Chirogale ) and { Hapalemur , Lepidolemur ) we meet with instances in which the orbits are more directed outwards than in others .
Adapts presents likewise variations in this respect .
In the typical skull of the smaller form , Adapts parisiensis , the orbits show a decidedly anterior direction ; in A. magnus , as well as in a skull united by Filhol with the smaller species , * the direction is almost the same as that seen in Megaladapis , although they are far from possessing the peripheric position and the tubular form of the Malagassy fossil .
The rounded , vaulted cranial portion is characteristic for all existing Lemurids , with some variation ( e.g , , Chirogale Milii , in which the cranial portion is somewhat more flattened than in Lemur ) , as opposed to Megaladapis .
In Adapts , by the depression of this part , coupled with the enormous , though sharp , sagittal crest , a strong approach is made to Megaladapis .
The brain-case of this last is comparatively much shorter and narrower than in the first .
A very elongate facial cranium is presented by the genus Lemur .
As in many other natural groups , we meet with a great variety amongst Lemurids in this respect .
Lemur on one side , the Indrisince , with a very short snout { e.g. , Avahis ) , on the other , are the extremes .
Adapis , though possessing four premolars , has a much shorter facial portion than Lemur .
The zygomatic arch , generally slender in the Lemuridce , acquires greater strength and is higher in the Indrisince .
Still closer approach is made to Megaladapis by Adapis , in which , besides , the squamosal rises still higher than in the former .
In * ' Ann. des Sc. G4ol .
, ' 14 , 1883 , Plate 10 .
Megaladapis the vertical extension of the parietal is the double of that of the squamosal ; in Lemur the first is four times higher than the last ; whereas in on the contrary , the vertical extent of the squamosal , near the occipital crest , is scarcely less than that of the parietal , and even exceeds it , if the sagittal crest be disregarded .
In Lemur , as well as in most existing Lemurids , the great disproportion in the respective heights of the parietal and squamosal , is in relation with the greater volume of the brain-case ; this does not , however , explain the vertical development of the squamosal in Megaladapis , and the still greater in , in which last a nearer approach to the Marsupialia is given than by Megaladapis .
How little classificatory value can be attributed to this structure is sufficiently illustrated by the fact that we find very high parietal s amongst Ungulates and Rodents as well .
This same remark applies to the vertical extension of the zygomatic arch .
In a skull of Adapis parisiensis ( Br .
Mus. ) the occipital condyles approach to the vertical position exhibited in Megaladapis .
They are perfectly vertical , as in this last , in a skull of Galago from the Kilima-Njaro ( Br .
Mus. , 92 , 10 , 18 , 10 ) and in Perodicticus potto .
In other existing Lemurids , as Lemur , Hapalemur , in which the horizontal diameter of the foramen magnum is equal or superior to its vertical diameter , the anterior portions of the condyles are directed inwards , the posterior portions externally .
In some essential structures Megaladapis agrees with the Lemuridce .
Such are the orbits , which form a complete bony ring , and communicate freely with the temporal fossa beneath the postorbital bar ; the lacrymal foramen , which is situated externally to the margin of the orbit ; the horizontal mandibular ramus , which is higher in proximity to the symphysis , than further back ; in the shape of the molars , Megaladapis is closely related to Lepidolemur , and more so to the smaller forms included in the genera Microcebus and Chirogale .
The inferior molars , also , are of the same type as Adapis , with the difference that the anterior portion of the Adapis molars is less atrophied , the anterior transverse valley being better developed .
Further , in Adapis , the last molar has only two internal cusps , IV .
Primitive Ancestor or Degenerate Descendant ?
The question next arises as to whether , in the characters of its skull , Megaladapis must be regarded as a generalized or specialized member of the Lemuroidea .
In other words , is Megaladapis a primitive ancestor or a degenerate descendant ?
An answer to the question has already been hinted ; but it seems advisable to attempt a fuller discussion , dealing with the dentition and the cranium separately .
With regard to the dentition , the majority of palaeontologists would doubtless regard the molars as primitive ; the purely tritubercular type of the upper molars and the corresponding simplicity of the lower molars being usually considered to indicate a AN EXTINCT GIGANTIC LEMUROID FROM MADAGASCAR .
generalized condition .
I have , however , recently discussed this matter at length , * and it thus suffices on the present occasion merely to point out how confirms the arguments I have adduced against the validity of the " tritubercular theory .
" No Mammal fauna is more appropriate than that of Madagascar for consideration in reference to the problem , and is an important discovery in this connection .
In Madagascar , the so-called tritubercular type of molar is found in families of three distinct orders , namely , in the Yiverridae , Centetidae , and Lemuridse .
Fig.1 not .
size Fig.2*4 Fig.3*4 Fig.4x4 Fig.5 % 7 Fig. 1 .
Megaladapis madagascariensis , m2 , sup. dext.\#151 ; Fig. 2 .
Ghirogale Milii , m2 , sup. dexfc.\#151 ; Fig. 3 , Eupleres Goudoti , m1 , sup , dext.\#151 ; Fig. 4 .
Gentetes ecaudattis , mls sup. dext.\#151 ; Fig. 5 .
madagascariensis , w ?
2 , sup. dext.\#151 ; The method of numbering the homologous cusps is the same as that adopted by Winge ( ' Vidensk .
Meddel .
Naturh .
Foren .
i. Kjoebenhavn , ' 1882 .
) On the widely accepted theory , it would therefore be necessary to assume some close relationship between these three families , and also between them and Megaladapis .
I feel sure that not one of the adherents of trituberculism will venture to uphold such a view , although it would be consistent with the theory .
But it will be asserted that they must rather be regarded merely as lowly organized representatives of their respective orders .
This assertion is disposed of by the fact that each family comprises some form showing a tendency to further reduction of the cusps of the molars , viz. , the Carnivore Eupleres , the Insectivore Hemicentetes , and the Lemuroids Chirogale and Chiromys .
These same genera , as well as Megaladapis , exhibit , moreover , evidence of retrogressive evolution in other characters .
Hence it is reasonable to conclude that the tritubercular condition of the molars is the result of similar evolution , and by no means a primitive condition .
We may even go further , and combat the belief that the tritubercular type of molar has had a common origin .
If we compare , for instance , the lower molars of Centetes and Megaladapis ( or Chirogale ) , we observe that in the first , the posterior part of the * ' On some Miocene Squirrels , \#166 ; with Remarks on the Dentition and Classification of the Sciurinas " ( ' Proc. Zool. Soc. , ' London , February 28,1893 ) .
tooth\#151 ; what has been termed its talon\#151 ; is in a very reduced state ; in the Lemuroids , on the contrary , the anterior part is reduced , and the greater portion of the molar is composed by a part which , according to the trituberculate theory , is of a late development .
Similar remarks apply to the superior molars .
The obvious conclusion is that in two genera whose molars present a similar or almost similar form , this similarity may have been brought about without the cusps constituting the tooth being throughout homologous in the two forms ; in other words , that we have to do with isomorphisms , not indicating true relationship .
Fig. 1 not .
size Fig. 2X2 Fig. 3*4 Fig. 4x4 Fig.6ax7 Fig. 6hx7 Fig. 1 .
Megaladapis madagascariensis , m2 , inf .
dext.\#151 ; Fig. 2 .
Adapts magnus , m2 , inf .
dext.\#151 ; Fig. 3 .
Chiro-gale Milii , m3 , inf .
dext.\#151 ; Fig. 4 .
Eupleres Goudoti , inf .
dext.\#151 ; Fig. 5 .
Centetes ecaudatus , fw-j , inf .
dext.\#151 ; Fig. 6a .
Hemicentetes madagascariensis , m3 , inf .
dext .
( from above as all the foregoing).\#151 ; Fig. 6b .
Same tooth , from the inner side .
The outer cusps are numbered 4 , 5 ; the inner cusps , 1 , 2 , 3 .
With regard to the skull of Megaladapis , it may be remarked that the low cranium , with an almost straight upper profile and an elongate facial portion , would be regarded by most palaeontologists as primitive.* There are , however , several considerations which seem to indicate that in many cases it is in reality a highly specialized feature .
Firstly , the increase of the facial portion of a skull , both in a vertical and a horizontal direction , is often obviously due in great part to the specialization of the teeth .
The molars , generally speaking , are increased vertically and sometimes horizontally , and the canines are transformed into tusks and weapons of different kinds .
Secondly , other facts of ontogeny and phylogeny also suggest the same conclusion ; for any skull during growth from the immature state to old agef and any type of Mammalian skull ( e.g. , the Ungulate ) traced from Eocene times to the present day , almost invariably shows the gradual diminution of* the cranial and the concomitant elongation of the * Karl A. Zittel , ' Handbuch der Palseontologie , ' I. Abtbeiluug , vol. 4 , 1892 , p. 22.\#151 ; Max Schlosser , " Die Affen , Lemuren , Chiropteren , Insectivoren . . .
des europaischen Tertiars , \amp ; c. , " ' Beitrage sir Palseontologie Oesterreich-Ungarns und des Orients , ' I. , Wien , 1887 , p. 3 ) : " Die Yerkurzung der Kiefer and Yergrosserang der Schadelkapsel tritt bei alien Saugethierstammen auf und ist uberhaupt der Endzweck aller den Scbadel betreffenden Yeranderungen .
" f Hermann von Nathusius , * Yorstudien fur Gesehicbte und Zucbt der Hausthiere zunachst am Schweineschadel , ' Berlin , 1864 , p. 8.\#151 ; Wilhelm Leche , " Beitrage sir Anatomy des Myrmecobius fasciatus , " ' Yerhandlungen des Biologiscben Yereins in Stockholm , ' vol. 3 , May , 1891 , No. 8 , p. 139 .
AN EXTINCT GIGANTIC LEMUROID FROM MADAGASCAR .
facial portion .
Finally , it is evident that the change just referred to continues with increasing age , from the fact that the first dentition is more generalized than the second one , and requires , as a consequence , shorter jaws ; and as it is now proved that the first dentition is ontogenetically and phylogenetically the older , * it follows that the shortness of the facial region is the primitive condition .
There may , of course , be instances in which the reduction of the facial part of the skull is partly a secondary specialization ( e.g. , certain Primates ) , but this circumstance does not invalidate the general result .
Let us proceed to consider the remaining parts of the skull of the with a view of ascertaining whether they he primitive or specialized .
The small brain-cavity in vertical , longitudinal , and transverse directions , gives this animal , when compared with the existing Lemuroidea , the appearance of being more lowly organized , and we must look among Insectivora and Marsupialia for a similar condition .
It may sound like a paradox when I advance that the small size of the brain cavity in the two groups just mentioned , may be partially an acquired character .
I have however , strong authority on my side for the assumption that the existing Marsupialia " are greatly modified members of the metatherial type , " and " that most , if not all , of the Australian forms are of comparatively late origin .
" !
On examining a bisected skull of a Marsupial , we may see that the great reduction in size of the cerebral fossa is very largely due to the development , in the adult animal , of sinuses in the walls of the covering bones , so that the brain cavity appears not only relatively , but absolutely larger in somewhat younger animals .
The same takes place in several families of Insectivora , e.g. , the Centetidce , which are considered as some of the most lowly organized of placental Mammals , but which , to judge at least from their dentition , as well as from the suppression of the jugals , and other characters , are highly specialized ; the specialization of the teeth being carried further in one of the genera , Hemicentetes , where they have undergone a retrogressive evolution .
In Megaladapis , the cerebral fossa is likewise much reduced in size , and moreover , the olfactory fossa is greatly constricted by the lateral development of aerial sinuses to such an extent that they protrude somewhat in the cerebral fossa , the result being a reduction in size of this part also of the brain cavity , and as an obvious consequence , a partial atrophy of cerebral substance must have taken place ; both cause and effect were certainly wanting in the young animal .
The inspection of the corresponding outer parts of the skull showed us a considerable elongation of the lateral parts of the frontalia , backwards from the orbits .
This might have led to the conclusion , that compared with existing Lemuroids , in which this elongation is * W. Leche , " Studien iiber die Entwicklung des Zahnsystems bei den Saugethieren , " 'Morpholog .
Jahrbuch , ' vol. 19,1892 , pp. 580 , 531 .
t T. H. Huxley , " On the Application of the Laws of Evolution to the arrangement of the Vertebrata , and more particularly of the Mammalia , " ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' London , 1880 , p. 656 .
never met with , the cranial cavity of Megalad is very elongate in an horizontal direction ; but , as we have seen , the very reverse is the case .
As shown by the semi-diagrammatic fig. 10 ( Plate 7 ) , the front part of the cerebral fossa is narrowed to such an extent by the two frontal sinuses , that the boundary between the cerebral .
and the olfactory fossae is reduced superiorly to a mere vertical fissure , and at the base to a small triangular opening .
I know of no other instance amongst Mammalia of a similar constriction between the two .
fossae .
V. Systematic Position .
From the foregoing comparison of the characters of with the existing Lemuridce , and their discussion , the conclusion arises as to the systematic position we must assign to it .
Unique as the skull is in several respects , so that we are entitled to place the animal in a distinct family , the , a closer examination has shown us that it only carries farther several characters possessed by various groups of existing Lemuroidea , and by Adapis amongst the extinct .
In the conformation of the dentition , Megaladapis closely approaches two Malagassy genera of Lemurids ( Lepidolemur , and more closely still some of the forms which are included in the genus Chirogale ) , so that there is some ground for the assumption that an equally close analogy with will be shown by the anterior part of the dentition , which is not known for the present .
Even if this should not prove to be the case , I do not expect that it would alter the conclusions as to its systematic position .
The type of the inferior molars of Megaladapis approaches equally , as has already been stated , those of Adapis .
In the conformation of the interorbital frontal region , Megaladapis bears the most relation to Adapis amongst extinct , and the especially , amongst recent Lemuroidea .
\ There are two characters in the cranium of Megaladapis for which we failed to find analogies amongst existing Lemuroidea , viz. , the exceedingly small and low brain cavity , and the prolongation of the lateral parts of the frontals backwards from the orbits .
As to the first , Adapis approaches somewhat , so far , at least , as having a low brain case ; but the cranial cavity of the former is considerably longer in proportion .
I trust I have shown with sufficient evidence , that Megaladapis presents , in this respect , an instance of retrogression ; whereas the same character may be a primitive one in Adapis .
As regards the backward prolongation of the lateral region of the frontals , not in the least a Lemuroid feature , we meet with this character in groups remote from the Lemuroidea and from each other , viz. , in the , Insectivora , and Marsupialia ; and we have seen that it is the result of the developing of aerial sinuses , so AN EXTINCT GIGANTIC LEMUROID FROM MADAGASCAR .
27 that it reveals itself as a specialized character of secondary importance , which is totally , or almost totally absent in young animals .
It is to be anticipated that skulls of young specimens of will bear a much closer resemblance than the adult to the existing Malagassy These resemblances will prove to consist , e.g. , in a more rounded cerebral cranium , in the brain cavity being relatively much more , and probably even absolutely more voluminous than in the old specimen , as well as in a more shortened facial cranium .
The postorbital elongation of the frontals will be wanting .
By the name of Megaladapis no close approach to Adapts is implied ; although I anticipate that younger specimens will show closer relation to Adapts as well .
I consider Adapis to form another distinct family of Lemuroidea .
As some palaeontologists have assigned to this genus a more remote position from existing Lemuroids , a few words in support of my view will not be out of place here , as the argument bears close relation to the subject of this paper .
Filhol proposed for this fossil genus a distinct group of the on the ground that in its dentition it is nearly related to the Ungulata .
To this may be objected , that by placing Adapis in a distinct family , sufficient account is taken of the more generalized character of its dentition , shown by the incisors and canines , and the greater number of premolars , as compared with existing Lemuroidea .
On the other hand the researches of Grandidier and Milne Edwards have shown , that in their anatomical characters the existing Lemuroids bear curious relations to several Ungulates , so that the existing members would equally deserve the denomination of PachylSmuriens , which for this reason becomes superfluous .
And the more so , as several existing Lemuroids approach , in the structure of their molars , some smaller members of the Eocene Lophiodont Ungulates , as well as Adapis .
A similar view of the question has long ago been held by Sir William Flower , when much less of living and extinct Lemuroids was known than at present.* Schlosser has thought it advisable to establish for the genus Adapis and several American Tertiary Lemuroids a distinct sub-order , , whilst of the European Eocene , and Anaptomorphus , Cynodontomys , Mixodectes of the American , are united with the existing Lemut If Adapis deserves to be separated from these last on account of its dentition , Necrolemur has the same claims , and so has Anaptomorphus .
There is no greater difference in their dentition between Adapis on the one hand , Necrolemur and Anaptomorphus , on the other , than there is between the existing sub-families Lemurince and Indrisihce .
So that , as long as all these fossil forms are not more completely known , it seems advisable to leave them in the one sub-order , Lemuroidea , * William Henry Flower , " Extinct Lemurina , " ' Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. , ' 4th series , vol. 17 , London , 1876 , pp. 323-328 , .
t Max Schlosser , 'Die Affen , Lemuren , ' \amp ; c. , 1 , p. 19 , et seq. ,1 which would include the following families , leaving aside the less perfectly known fossil forms:\#151 ; Lemuroidea \lt ; ' 1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
- 6 .
Adapidce ( extinct ) : Adapis .
Anaptomorphidce ( extinct ) : A Lemuridce ( recent ) .
Megaladapidce ( extinct ) : Megaladapis ChiromyidcB ( recent ) , Tarsiidce ( recent ) .
VI .
Associated Fauna .
Before proceeding to the question of the geological age , a brief review must be given of the Vertebrate remains found associated in the marsh of Amboulisatra .
Those discovered by Grandidier* are the following :\#151 ; Aepyornis .
Bones of different size , which Alph .
Milne Edwards and GrandidierI are disposed to ascribe to three species : Aepyornis max , Aep .
and Aep .
The largest bones were associated under the first name with the enormous eggs found in Southern Madagascar , and the association has been generally taken for granted , the only grounds for this view being that up to the present d^fce no bones of a larger bird had been forthcoming .
Taking in consideration , on the one hand , the number and great variety of forms of the New Zealand and on the other , the circumstance that a systematic palaeontological exploration of the island is still a desideratum , some caution as regards this question was not out of place , and Dawson Bowley has long agoJ expressed strong doubts with respect to the above association .
In a recent meeting ( June 6 , 1893 ) of the Zoological Society of London , the Hon. Walter Rothschild exhibited two femora , a tibio-tarsus and a tarso-metatarsus of Aepyornis , quite recently sent over by Mr. Last from the south-west coast of Madagascar .
These bones exceed in size the largest hitherto known , and the exhibitor suggested that they more properly might be associated specifically with the large eggs .
* Milne Edwards , " Sir des decouvertes zoologiques faites recemment a Madagascar par M. Alfred Grandidier , " ' Comptes Rendus Ac .
Sc. , ' vol. 67 , pp. 1165-1167 , Seance du 14 dec. , 1868 .
t Alph .
Milne Edwards et Alf .
Grandidier , " Nouvelles Observations snr les Caracteres zoologiqn.es etles affinites naturelles de l'Aepyomis de Madagascar " ; Alph .
Milne Edwards , ' Rechercbes sir la Faune Ornithologique eteinte des lies Mascareignes et de Madagascar .
' Paris , 1866-1873 , p. 110 .
+ George Dawson Rowlet , " On the Egg of Aepyornis : the Colossal Bird of Madagascar , " '.Zool .
Soc. Proc. , ' London , 1867 , pp. 892-895 .
AN EXTINCT GIGANTIC LEMUROID FROM MADAGASCAR .
On the other hand , from a few preliminary remarks by Dames# on remains in the Berlin Museum , collected by Hildebrandt , at Sirab6 , North-Betsileo ( Central Madagascar ) , it appeared as probable that they represented an apparently new form of Aepyornis , of comparatively small dimensions .
These remains , amongst which a pelvis deserves particular mention , have been recently described and figured by R. Burckhardt as Aepyornis Hildebrandti.f Crocodilus .
A Crocodile , Crocodilus robustus , Yaill .
et Grand , , originally believed to be extinct , J but later on discovered by HumblotS as actually existing in the great lakes of the interior .
This Crocodile , stated to reach a length of 10 metres , is nearly related to the Indian Crocodilus palustris , Lesson .
|| A humerus of Crocodilus from Sirab6 , in the Christiania Museum is supposed by DamesTT to belong to the same species .
Testudo .
Two gigantic Chelonians , Testudo abrupta , Grand .
, and Testudo , Vaill.## The last mentioned form was discovered besides by Grandidier , in " Couches Sablonneuses , " at Etserd ( South-West Coast ) , tt and the remains sent to the British Museum by Mr. Last , and described by Boulenger , ^ seem to come from the same locality , in a cave .
Hippopotamus .
Finally , the remains of about fifty specimens of Hippopotamus were discovered by Grandidier at Amboulisatra , and described as H. .SS Remains of * W. Dames , " Vorlage eines subfossilen Crocodil-Humerus von Madagascar , " * Sifczungsber .
der Ges .
naturforsch .
Freunde .
' Jahrg .
1886 , No. 5 , Berlin , 1886 , p. 68 .
t R. Burckhardt , " t3ber Aepyornis , " * Palaeontologische Abbandlungen , ' Never Eolge , vol. 2 , Jena , 1893 .
J A. Grandidier et L. Vaillant .
" Sir le Crocodile fossile d'Amboulintsatre ( Madagascar ) , " ' Comptes Rend .
Ac .
Sc. , ' vol. 75 , 1872 , pp. 150-151 .
S L. Vaillant , " Remarques sir le Grocodilus robus , Yaill .
et Grand .
, de Madagascar , " ' Count .
Rend .
Ac .
Sc. , ' vol. 97 , 1883 , pp. 1081-1083 .
' v || L. Yatllant , loc. cit. G. A. Boulenger , ' Catalogue of the Cbelonians , Rhynchocephalians , and Crocodiles in the British Museum ( Natural History ) .
' New ed. , London , 1889 , p. 286 .
W. Dames , l.s.c. ** Milne Edwards , 'Surdes decouvertes zoologiques , ' l.s.c. Alfred Grandidier , " Madagascar , " ' Bull .
Soc. Geogr .
, ' 2,1871 , p. 91 .
L. Vaillant , " Remarques complementaires sir les Tortues gigantes-ques de Madagascar , " ' Count .
Rend .
Ac .
Sc. , ' vol. 100 , 1885 , pp. 874-877 .
If Milne Edwards , ' Sir des decouvertes zoologiques , ' etc. , loc. cit. G. A. Boulenger , " On Remains of an extinct gigantic Tortoise from Madagascar ( Grandidieri , Vaillant ) , " ' Trans. Zool. Soc. , ' vol. .
13 , pp. 305-311 .
SS Milne Edwards loc. cit. . . . . .
potamus have been likewise discovered in Central Madagascar .
The German explorer , Hildebrandt , obtained skeletons of this Mammal from the salt-marsh of Sirabe ( i.e. , " much salt " ) , * and forwarded them to the Berlin Museum.t KokenJ and DamesS identify this Hippopotamus with a skeleton from the same locality , obtained by Norwegian Missionaries and sent to the Christiania Museum , where they have been described by Guldberg under the name of H. madagascariensis .
11 The brief description of the H. Lemerlei , given by GrandidierIF does not enable us to decide for the present if the Sirabe specimen is identical with the H. madagascariensis , Guld .
Alph .
Milne Edwards is of opinion** that the H. Lemerlei from Amboulisatra comes very near to the H. liberiensis ( ) , a living form from Liberia .
The Aepyornis remains from the central parts being different from those of the south-west coast , and it being doubtful at present if the age of the two deposits , which we shall have to discuss hereafter , is the same , there is and priori assumption against the identification of the respective Hippopotamus remains .
The question becomes more puzzling still by the circumstance that a cranium of Hippopotamus in the British Museum , found in a swampy deposit at Sirabe+t\#151 ; the same district from which were obtained the remains in the Berlin and Christiania Museums\#151 ; is decidedly different in some essential points from the one described by Guldberg .
For some further particulars on this question , I refer to the following chapter .
* * * S ** * J. M. Hildebrandt , " Skizze zu einem Bilde central-madagassischen Naturlebens im Friihling , " * Zeitschr .
d. Ges .
f. Erdkunde zu Berlin , '16 ; Berlin , 1881 , pp. 194-203 .
R. Baron , " Notes on the Geology of Madagascar .
" ' Quart .
Joum .
Geol .
Soc. , ' London , yoI .
45 , 1889 , p. 308 , where the name is written " Antsirabe .
" f Koken , " Rest eines subfossilen Hippopotamus , Hippopotamus madagascariensis , Guldberg , " .
' Sitzungsber .
Ges .
Naturf .
Freunde .
' Berlin , 1886 , p. 55 .
W. Dames , l.s.c. J Loc .
cit. S Loc .
cit. || G. A. Guldberg , " Undershgelser over en subfossil flodhest fra Madagascar , " ' Forhandlinger i Videnskabs Selskabet i Christiania , aar 1883 .
' Christiania , 1884 , No. 6 .
Milne Edwards , ' Sir des decouvertes zoologiques , ' loc. cit. ** Loc .
cit. ff R. Bullen Newton , " On the Discovery of a Secondary Reptile in Madagascar , Baroni ( n. sp. ) ; with a reference to some Post-Tertiary Vertebrate Remains from the same country , recently acquired by the British Museum ( Natural History ) .
" ( 'Geolog .
Magazine , ' Decade III .
, vol. 10 , No. 347 , May , 1893 , p. 197 .
) Mr. B. Newton draws besides attention to the fact that a few Hippopotamus teeth from Madagascar were sent to this country as long as sixty years ago , and are preserved in the Museum of the Geological Society , the label accompanying stating them to come from a locality thirty miles from Antananarivo , which is the capital , situated in Central Madagascar .
The brief reference in the 'Proc .
of the Geol .
Soc. of London , ' ( vol. 1 , No. 31 , 1833 , p. 479 ) , runs as follows :\#151 ; 41 letter was afterwards read from Mr. Telfair to Sir Alexander Johnstone , V.P.R.A.S. , accompanying a specimen of recent conglomerate rock , from the Island of Madagascar , containing fragments of a tusk and part of a molar tooth of a Hippopotamus , and communicated by Roderick Impey Murchison , Esq , , F.G.S. " AN EXTINCT GIGANTIC LEMTJROID FROM MADAGASCAR .
The small collection obtained from the marsh of Amboulisatra by Mr. Last , consists , besides the skull of Megaladapis , of two occipital portions and bones of Hippopotamus .
Part of the pelvis of Sus which , from its fresh appearance , seems to be more recent than the other remains .
Vertebrae of a species of Potamochcerus , which may prove to be the one actually existing in Madagascar .
Some remains of Aepyornis , and of other smaller birds .
Bones and fragments of the carapace of Testudo Grandidieri , Vaill .
, identified by Mr. Boulenger .
The collection contains besides fragmentary bones of some Mammals , but so few in number , and at the same time so enigmatical , that the safer course to pursue will be to say as little as possible about them for the present .
A femur of a young individual\#151 ; the distal epiphyses are wanting\#151 ; with a very strong lesser and a feebly developed third trochanter , presents , by its antero-posterior flattening , a striking resemblance with a Manis femur , with which however , for other reasons , I do not feel inclined to unite it ; but it may be a Rodent or an Insectivore .
The length of the bone , so far as preserved , is 135 millims. VII .
Geological Age .
We have next to meet the question as to the geological age of the cranium which forms the subject of the present inquiry .
Prom Mr. Last 's correspondence it appears that the bones from the marsh of Amboulisatra were found lying between a stratum of a " white clayey substance above , and a deposit of " greenish sand and stones " below .
The white clay has a thickness of 18 inches to 2 feet , and is overlaid by 6 inches of black soil .
The matrix adhering to the bones is in fact a green quartzitic sand .
They have a very fresh appearance , and in their mode of preservation and colouring much resemble the animal remains from lake-dwellings , some of them having an even fresher appearance .
With regard to the remains of Crocodilus from the marsh of Amboulisatra , it has already been stated that this species is actually existing in the lakes of the interior .
A t.ptt- Milne Edwards and Grandidier , in their paper on the remains of Aepyornis from this same deposit , sum up in the following words the discussion as to their age : " II ressort done clairement de ces faits que a v^cu h un dpoque oh l'homme habitait d6jk Madagascar , mais que , ddpourvu de moyens de defense et probablement aussi d'intelligence , il a 6t6 rapidement d\amp ; truit , et que les voyageurs des xvi ' et xvii0 si\amp ; cles n'ont pu que recueillir sir son count les souvenirs anciens et , par consequent , meles de merveilleux que les tribus savages se trans-mettaient de generation en generation."* Reference is here made , first , to the legendary bird Roc or Rue , mentioned by Marco Polo and other travellers , influenced by which Professor Bianconi , ^ of Bologna , has endeavoured to prove in several Memoirs that the Aepyornis was a bird of prey allied to the Vulture , t The legends referring to gigantic birds may not necessarily be considered as a proof of their contemporaneity with Man , as they might have been originated by the view of the enormous eggs .
In the same manner as the fables relating to monsters and amazons inhabiting the island of Samos , and which are reported by ^Elianus and Plutarch , owe their origin to the acquaintance of the ancient Greeks with the great quantity and occasionally enormous size of ( Miocene ) bones met with in that island.^ The opinion that the Aepyornis was contemporaneous with Man is , however , strengthened by the fact stated by Milne Edwards and Grandidier , viz. , that on one of the tibiae , " On voit k Textremite superieure des empreintes profondes pratiquees a l'aide d'un instrument tranchant ; il semble Evident que ces incisions ont 6te faites en coupant les ligaments du genou pour separer les os de la jambe de celui de la cuisse , et else 'dec\amp ; lent la main de 1 homme .
S Moreover , on one of the fragments of metatarsus are to be seen , according to the same authors , some superficial cuts or scratches ( incisions ) , very similar to those found sometimes on bones from caves and considered to be the work of Man.|| On the mandibula of the Megaladapis scratches are also seen which have the appearance of age , and which seem to have been produced by some cutting instrument ; but they may also be referred to the action of sharp-pointed teeth .
Most of the eggs of the Aepyornis have been reported to be found on the seashore of South Madagascar , " on the abrupt rise of the dunes , even on the surface of the sand , when there is a crumbling of the earth , or when tropical rains heave up parts of the sand."f The dunes are considered both by Grandidier** and the Italian * Alph .
Milne Edwards et Alf .
Grandidier , " Nouvelles Observations sir les caracteres zoologiques et les affinites naturelles de VAepyornis de Madagascar , " loo .
cit. , p. 112 .
.j- Biancori , " Dell ' JEpyornis maximusmenzionate da Marco-Polo a da Fra Mauro , Memory dell Accademia dell Scienze , ' Bologna , 1862 ; ibid. , " Degli scritti di Marco-Polo e dell ' uccello Rue da Ini menzionato , " loc. cit. , 2a serie , vol. 2 , Bologna , 1862 ; ibtd .
, " Studi sul Tarso-Metatarso degli nccelli ed in particolare dell ' Upyornis maximus , " loc. cit. , 23 Aprile , 1863 , e 12 genn .
, 1865 .
J C. I. Forsyth Major , " Le Gisement ossifere de Mitylini , " * Extrait de " Samos , etude geologique , paleontologique et botanique , ' par C. de Stefani , 0.1 .
Forsyth Major , et W. Barbey , Lausanne , 1892 , pp. 1-2 .
S Loc .
cit. , p. 112 .
|| Ibid. Alf .
Grandidier , " Observations sir le gisement des ceufs de YLJpyornis , " ' Comptes Rendus Acad. Sc. , ' Paris , vol. 65 , 1867 , pp. 476-478 .
George Dawson Rowley , " On the Egg of , the Colossal Bird of Madagascar , " ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' London , 1867 , p. 892 .
** Grandidier , loc. cit. Rowley , loc. cit. / \#166 ; AN EXTINCT GIGANTIC LEMUROID FROM MADAGASCAR .
geologist , Cortese , * to be modern alluvia , the deposition of which is still in progress .
Bo that here we have another proof that the Bird to which they pertain was still in existence at a recent period , later probably than the Pleistocene .
It would seem , however , that the eggs were more frequently obtained from some marshes .
This circumstance seems to have been kept secret ; the eggs , though rare , having become , on account of the high price paid for them by collectors , a sort of article of exportation from Madagascar .
Cortese+ was the first to refer to their being found in marshes , and the geologist , P\amp ; LAGAUD , to whom the Bologna Museum owes an egg of Aepyornis , and who has more than once visited Madagascar , informed Professor Capellini as to the places where they are found and the methods resorted to in seeking for them .
J To account for the presence of the eggs in the marshes , we must suppose that the water has only recently invaded the sandy region where they were originally deposited by the Birds ; this , according to Capellini , S would be in relation with the gradual subsidence of the west coast of Madagascar , as admitted by Cortes e. || Further arguments in favour of a recent origin of the bones occur in connection with the discovery of those of Hippopotamus in Central Madagascar .
Hildebrandt , who was the first to discover remains of this MammallT in the salt marsh of Sirabd , states that the natives have various names for it , one of them being Lalom$na , which means , according to Hildebrandt , " the smooth red one"** Dr. Borchgrevink , who was an eye-witness of the discovery of the Hippopotamus skeletons , now in the Christiania Museum , has given a report of this discovery in the * * * S ** * E. Coetese , u Appunti geologici sull ' isola di Madagascar , " ' Boll , del R. Comitato Geologico d ' Italia , ' vol. 19 , Roma , 1888 , pp. 118 , 119 .
+ " La part piu .
meridionale dell ' isola , cioe 1* Antanosy , 1 ' Antandroy e il Tanala , e bassa , paludosa in gran part inesplorata .
Pare cbe negli stagni di quella regione si trovino i gusci dell gigantesche uova di Aepyornis .
" E. Coetese , " Appnnti geologici sull ' isola di Madagascar , " ' Boll , del R. Comitato Geologico d ' Italia , ' vol. 19 , Roma , 1888 , p. 119 .
J Giov .
Capellini , " Sul primo uovo di Aepyornis maximus arrivato in Italia , " ' Memory R. Accad .
dell Scienze dell ' 1st .
di Bologna , ' serie iv .
, vol. 10 , Bologna , 1890 .
In a letter transcribed on p. 26 , M. P^lagaud states :\#151 ; " Vous savez que tous ces ceufs ont ete trouves dans un marais .
" With reference to the egg sent to Bologna he writes ( p. 27):\#151 ; " II vient des environs de Nos-Vey cote sud-ouest de la grande terre .
Vous savez comme on les decouvre .
Des chercheurs sondent a Coup de lance ( sagaie ) la vase des deltas de certaines rivieres marecageuses jusqu'a ce qu'on rencontre un corps dur . . .
" Thirty years ago Professor Tenant exhibited to the Zoological Society of London a very perfect egg of the Aepyornis ( lent to him for exhibition by M. J. F. Beunet ) , which was stated to have been obtained in Madagascar , " at a depth of 50 feet , in digging a mine of iron .
" ( ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' London , 1863 , p. 438 .
) S Loc .
cit. , p. 35 .
|| Loc .
cit. , p. 127 .
*lf Now in the Berlin Museum .
** J. M. Hildebeandt , loc. cit. , p. 197 .
' Transactions of the Christiania Scientific Society.'* He , too , mentions , in connection with the Hippopotamus , a legendary monster , , provided with large sharp tusks .
According to Dr. Borchgrevink , the meaning of this word is not certain ; perhaps it signifies " the red one who dives deeply " ( Roede , dybt ) , or the red fly " ( den roede Flue ) ( ?
) .
Some accounts state this animal to have resembled a huge boar ; and tradition says that it was one of the prerogatives of the sons of kings to fight , or , as the tales have it , to play with , this monster .
The skeleton in question has been fully described by G. A. Guldberg.+ From Sibree , one of the editors of the 'Antananarivo Annual , ' we learn that the remains of Hippopotamus obtained by the Museums of Berlin and Christiania were discovered during the excavations for the foundations of a bath-house , erected by the Norwegian Mission over the hot spring of Antsirabe ; adding that there have been occasional vague reports of the existence of some huge animal in the southern parts of the islands , and suggesting that possibly the Hippopotamus is not yet extinct there , and that the half-mythical stories of the Sangdmby , TdJcandla , Laldmena , and other strange creatures , current among the Malagassy , are traditions of the period when these huge Pachyderms were still to be seen in the lakes and streams and marshes of Madagascar .
J In addition to these informations , it may be worth mentioning that Flacourt , " Directeur General de la Compagnie FranSoise de TOrient , " who resided for years in the Fort Dauphin , erected by the French on the south-east coast of Madagascar , rs a " Commandant pour sa Majeste dans la dite Isle et ds Isles adjacentes , " published in 1658 a 'History of Madagascar .
' In this work two chapters are dedicated to the fauna of the island , giving the native names of the animals with brief descriptions , S part of which are easily recognizable , their names having been confirmed by recent travellers .
Besides these , Flacourt names and describes four quadrupeds which , from the size as well as other characters assigned to them , cannot be identified with any known existing Malagassy Mammals.|| In some instances the author wrote only * * * S * Che .
Borchgrevink , " Oplysninger om et paa Madagascar fundet subfossilt Flodhest-Skelet .
" Oversigt over Videnskabs-Selskabets Moeder i 1882 , ' den 12 My ; i Mathematisk-Haturvidenskabelig Class , ' pp. 8\#151 ; 11 ; ' Forhandlinger Videnskabs-Selskabet i Christiania Aar 1882 , ' Christiania , 1883 .
) f L. s. c. , p. 24 .
+ James Sibree , jun .
, " The Volcanic Lake of Tritriva : its Physical Featnres and Legendary History .
The Antananarivo Annual and Madagascar Magazine , ' Antananarivo , 1888 , Ho. 12 ( part 4 of vol. 3 ) , pp. 468 , 469 .
S " Histoire de la grande Isle Madagascar , composee par le Sienr De Flacoort , Directenr General de la Compagnie Fran^ise de l'Orient , et Commandant pour sa Majeste dans ladite Isle et es Isles adjacentes .
Avec un Relation de ce qni s'est pass es annees 1655 , 1656 , et 1657 , non encor veue par la prendre Impression .
" Chap. 38 , " Des Animaux terrestres et des Insectes , " pp. 151-159 .
Pans , 1661 ( the first edition is of 1658 ) .
; . .
|| Loc .
citpp .
154 , 155 .
" Tretretretreon Tratratratm , c'est nn animal grand comme nn vean de deux ans , qui a la teste ronde , et un face d'homme ; les pieds de devant comme un smge , et les pieds de AN EXTINCT GIGANTIC LEMUROID FROM MADAGASCAR .
from hearsay , and may have reported some of the more or less fabulous accounts of the natives .
However , Flacourt 's information deserves mention , especially as the general trustworthiness of his statements has been acknowledged by modern explorers .
* The last set of Vertebrate remains , discovered by Mr. Last on the south-west coast of Madagascar , without indication of the exact locality , and received in England in the beginning of June of this year , contains , besides the bones of Aepyornis of exceptional size , the following remains:\#151 ; 1 .
An incomplete skull and mandibula , besides numerous bones and isolated teeth of Hippopotamus .
2 .
A skull , two humeri , as well as other bones of robustus .
3 .
Several mandibular rami and numerous bones of a slender-legged form of Bos .
The association of the last-mentioned genus goes far to prove that the extinct Vertebrata recorded , co-existed in the island with domestic cattle ; the bones of the Bos presenting the same coloration as part of the other remains ; whilst those of the Aepyomis , and several of those of the Hippopotamus show even a fresher appearance , t derriere aussi .
II a poil frisote , la queue court et lea oreilles comme celles d'un homme .
II ressemble au Tanacht descrit par Ambroise Pare .
1*1 s'en est veu un proelie l'estang de Lipomami aux enuirons duquel est son repair .
C'est un animal fort solitaire , les gens du pais en ont grand peur et s'enfuient de luy comme luy aussi d'eux .
" Antaniba , c'est nne beat grande comme un grand cliien quiala teste ronde , et au rapport des Negres , elle a la ressemblance d'un Leopart , elle devore les hommes et les veaux .
Elle est rare et no demeure que dans les lieux des montagnes les moins frequentez .
" Mangarsahoc , c'est un beat fort grande qui a le pied rond comme un cheval et les oreilles fort longues .
Quand elle descend d'une montagne elle a de la peine a voir deuant elle , a cause que ses oreilles luy cacbent les yeux , elle fait un grand cry a la fa90n d'un asne .
Je crois que ce peut estre un asne sauvage .
II y a un montagne a vingt lieues du fort Dauphin que les Francois ont nomme Mangarsahoc du nom de cette animal , y en ayans autres fois oiiy crier un .
" Breh , c'est un animal qne les Negres de Manghabei disent estre dans le pais des Antsianactes , qui a un come seule sir le front , grande comme un grand oabrit , et est fort sauvage , il faut que ce soit un licome .
" When announcing the discovery of the Aepyornis eggs , Isid .
Geoffroy-Saint-Hilaire quotes the following passage from Flacourt , referring to a bird called Vouron patra:\#151 ; " C'est un grand oyseau qui hante les Ampatres , et fait des ceufs comme l'Autruche ; c'est un espece d'Autruche .
Ceux des dits lieux no le peuvent prendre , il cherche les lieux les plus deserts " ( cit. , p. 165 ) .
Flacourt 's Youron patra has been supposed by Geoffroy-Saint-Hilaire and other writers to be referable to one of the minor forms assigned to the genus Aepyornis , and in the first line to the fragmentary egg-shells , as mentioned by P. Gervais : " qui paraissent avoir du etre du volume de ceux des Autruches .
" ( Isid .
Geoffroy-Saint-Hilaire , l. s. c. ; P. Gervais , l. s. a. ) * See Alf .
Grandidier , Madagascar ( loc. cit. , p. 82 ) : " L'Histoire de Madagascar , par Flacourt , seule , port le cachet de la verite ; ce que le gouverneur de Fort-Dauphin ecrivait , en 1661 , sir la petite peuplade des Antanosses , est vrai encore de nos jours .
" f The following account of the Madagascar cattle in the 17th century , as given by Flacourt , The evidence contained in the foregoing pages .
, shows , with a sufficient degree of certainty , that the Vertebrate remains discovered in Madagascar belonged to animals , part , if not all , of which have been seen by Man at a relatively recent date .
There is however , besides , another piece of information , though scanty for the present , which entitles us to look forward towards the discovery of a Mammalian fauna , geologically older than the one treated of in the foregoing .
From the few papers published on the geology of Madagascar , which at the present day , according to Grandidier , * possesses but a scarce number of lakes , it appears that numerous old lake-bottoms exist in the central part , as well as terraces of lacustrine origin.t From the correspondence of Mr. Last , who spent last autumn and the whole of the winter in the Antinosy country , we gather that in this almost unexplored region of Southern Central Madagascar , the beds of old lakes equally abound .
Mr ; Last further states as follows : " Now the lakes are all dry , leaving a bed of grey , marly clay , from three to five feet thick , and near the bottom of this the isolated bones are found .
" Another formation , termed by the writer a " soft red sandstone , " seems to overlay in many places the grey marl ; in one place where the river Itungansuba has cut a passage through these various deposits , a section of them is seen .
So that the suspicion arises that the grey marl of the interior is not the equivalent of the white clay in the marsh of Amboulisatra near the sea-shore , but rather belongs to a geologically older formation .
Cortese mentions^ that in the central region , extensive stratified deposits of red arenaceous clays ( sabbiose rosse ) exist resulting from the decomposition of the gneissic rocks .
These red arenaceous clays he ascribes to the Pleistocene .
If they are the same formation with Mr. Last 's " soft red sandstone " of the southern central parts , then the underlying grey marls and the fossils they contain , may be Tertiary .
Whatever may hereafter prove to be the case it appears priori highly improbable that the formation of lake basins has been limited to the Post-Tertiary period .
Whilst from the presence , in one or more districts , of lignite , S believed by Cortese acquires a peculiar interest in relation withi the above statement .
" II y a de trois sorts de beeufs en ce pais s9auoir ceux qui ont des corns ; d'autres qui se nomment Boury , qui ont la teste ronde , et n'ont point de corns , et d'autres qui ont des corns pendantes attachees a la peau de la teste seulement ( P ) , ( probably Bubalus ) " et tons ont de grosses louppes de graisse sir le chinon du col , de laquelle louppe l'on en fond la graisse pour manger au lieu de beurre : d'autant qu'elle est aussi agreeable que le beurre .
Ces beeufs quelques gras qu'ils soient , ont tres-peu de suif , ce qu'il y en a est tres-bon a fair de la chandelle .
II y a encores dans le pais des Machicores , ruin des guerres , un grande quantite de beeufs sauuages qui n'ont point de louppes .
Ils sont comme ceux d'Europe : Toutesfois sont hauts de jambe , et courent par trouppe comme des cerfs .
" ( De Flacourt , p. 151 .
) * Alf .
Grandidier , " Madagascar " ( ' Bull .
Soc. Geogr .
, ' vol. 2 , 1871 , p. 104 ) f M. Cortese , * Appunti Geologici , ' \amp ; c. , pp. 106 , 107,108 .
R. Baron , .
, pp. 306-308 .
P* + 'Appunti geologici , ' p. 117 .
S E. Cortese , " Osservazioni geologiche sul Madagascar , Boll , del R. Com. 187 .
Ibid. , ' Appunti Geologici , ' \amp ; c , loc. cit , p. 123 .
R. Baron , loc. p. 325 .
Geol .
, ' vol. 18 , 1887 , AN EXTINCT GIGANTIC LEMUROID FROM MADAGASCAR .
to be of Pliocene age , it becomes further almost a certainty that lacustrine deposits of Tertiary age exist in Madagascar .
I anticipate accordingly that a Tertiary Vertebrate fauna will sooner or later be forthcoming in the island .
With regard to this proposition I wish to call attention to another circumstance .
In the foregoing inquiry reference was made to a paper by Guldberg , containing a detailed description , with plates , of the Hippopotamus from Sirabe , in the Christiania Museum .
Guldberg supposes that this form may be identical with the H. Lemerlei , whose remains were discovered by Grandidier in the Amboulisatra marsh .
The provisional description given by the French author* does not allow us to pronounce with certainty on the matter , so that , being in doubt , Guldberg prefers to assign a new specific name to the Sirabe remains ( H. madagascariensis ) .
The Hippopotamus skull in the British Museum comes , as above stated , from this same district of Sirabe ; I was in consequence , as a matter of course , prepared to find it agreeing with the one described by Guldberg .
However , a close examination proved quite the contrary .
It can only be said , in a general way , that both are somewhat intermediate between the lower pliocene H. sivalensis and the existing H. amphibius , a remark which likewise applies to H. Lemerlei ; but otherwise the skull in the British Museum differs from the one described by Guldberg in various respects , some of the variations being such that it is impossible to account for them as being due to age or sex .
The London skull appears to be equally different from those described by Grandidier in some points in which these last agree with the Christiania skull , so far at least as one may be allowed to judge from Grandidier 's description .
Now , as it seems at first sight difficult to admit that two different forms of Hippopotamus existed in the same district , I feel almost inclined to conclude that the differences alluded to may be due to the fact of the two skulls from Sirabd being of a different geological age .
However , I do not wish to insist too strongly on this point so long as the Paris remains have not been submitted to a close comparison , in which would have to be included as well , the remains sent to Berlin by Hildebrandt .
* Milne Edwards , " Sir des decouvertes zoologiques faites recemment a Madagascar par M. Alfred Grandidier , " ' Comptes Rendus Acad. Sc. , ' vol. 67 , seance du 14 Dec. , 1868 , pp. 1165-1167 .
Description of Plates .
All figures natural size .
PLATE 5 .
Megaladapis madagascariensis , gen .
et .
sp. nov .
Fig. 1 .
View of the right side of the skull .
Fig. 2 .
Outside view of the right mandibular ramus .
Fig. 3 .
Front view of the same , to show the symphysis .
PLATE 6 .
Megaladapismadagascarien Fig. 4 .
Upper view of the skull .
Fig. 5 .
Occipital view .
The constriction between the cerebral and the olfactory fossa is visible through the foramen magnum .
Fig. 6 .
Fragment of the right maxilla of a second specimen , from below , showing the two posterior molars and the alveoli of the first molar , as well as of the two posterior premolars .
Fig. 7 .
Upper view of the inferior molars and posterior premolar ( right mandibular ramus , fig. 2 ) .
PLATE 7 .
Megaladapis madagascariensis .
Fig. 8 .
Inferior view of the skull .
ms .
, backward prolongation of the inflated maxilla , which on the left side is broken , so that the maxillary sinus is visible .
Fig. 9 .
Internal view of the right mandibular ramus .
Fig. 10 .
Diagram of the boundary between the cerebral and the olfactory fossse , as seen through the foramen magnum .
The posterior ridge of the lamina perpendicularis of the mesethmoid ( crista galli ) is visible through the opening .
/ or .
1894 | aat 11th .
INestr^ewmaoa imp .
Megalaiapis nnadagasoanerLsis , Pkvi .
Trans. 1894.B .
Plate 6 .
Megaladapis madagas earaen si s , gen .
eC s ^l\amp ; U. " West , IT^wiccirtn imp .

