395 Contributions to the Physiology of Mammalian Reproduction .
Part I.\#151 ; The ( Estrous Cycle in the Dog .
Part II.\#151 ; The Ovary as an Organ of Internal Secretion .
By Francis H. A. Marshall , Carnegie Fellow in the University of Edinburgh ; and William A. Jolly , Assistant to the Professor of Physiology in the University of Edinburgh .
( Communicated by Professor E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received May 13 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) Part I. The CEstrous Cycle in Carnivores.\#151 ; The bitch is moncestrous and has typically two sexual seasons in the year .
The wild species of the genus in their natural state have only one sexual season annually , hut in captivity they may experience two sexual seasons like the bitch .
The Cape hunting-dog ( ) in captivity has been shown to come on heat usually only once a year .
The domestic cat has three or four sexual seasons in the course of the year .
We find also that it is polycestrous and may have four heat-periods in a single sexual season .
The duration of the dioestrous cycle is about a fortnight .
The wild cat probably experiences only one sexual season in the year .
The male possesses a rutting season .
The lioness , failing pregnancy , may have several annual sexual seasons , at the same time being polycestrous .
The duration of the dicestrous cycle is said to be three weeks .
Bears , polecats , and seals , and probably most other carnivores , appear to be monoestrous and breed once a year ; but the otter , in captivity at any rate , is polycestrous , having a continuous series of dioestrous cycles , each of a month 's duration .
The periodicity of oestrus is dependent to some extent upon environmental conditions as illustrated in the case of the fox .
Domestication and captivity appear to favour increased frequency in the recurrence of the cycle .
The Histology of the Uterus during the Cycle.\#151 ; The histological changes which the uterus undergoes may be divided into the following periods:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Period of rest ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
( 2 ) " growth and congestion ... ( 3 ) " destruction ... ... ... ... ... .
( 4 ) " recuperation ... ... ... ... Anoestrum .
j\#187 ; Procestrum .
r ( Estrus .
T Metoestrum .
Messrs. F. H. A. Marshall and W. A. Jolly .
[ May 13 The second period is characterised by congestion and increase in the number of capillaries .
This is followed in the next period by extravasation of blood and emigration of polymorphs .
External bleeding is shortly afterwards observed , having been preceded by a flow of mucus , containing polymorphs .
There is considerable denudation of uterine epithelium , but the denudation does not extend to more than a single layer of stroma cells .
In the recuperation period the epithelium is re-formed and new capillaries arise .
This stage is also characterised by the large number of leucocytes that occur free in the stroma .
These are of several kinds : ( 3 ) Large mononuclear leucocytes containing iron pigment derived from the extravasated red corpuscles , ( 2 ) coarsely granular eosinophil leucocytes , and ( 3 ) basophil cells .
The latter , which occur in unusual abundance both in the stroma and in the muscle layers , are often very large .
It is obvious that the changes occurring in the uterus throughout the cycle are homologous with those which are undergone in the sheep , the ferret , the monkey , and the human female .
Ovulation and the Vitality of the Spermatozoa.\#151 ; Ovulation in the bitch takes place after external bleeding has been going on for several days .
It occurs during the period of oestrus but it is quite independent of coition or of the presence of spermatozoa in the uterus .
Ho systematic investigation as to the vitality of mammalian sperms has hitherto been attempted .
It has been ascertained by us , however , that the period of survival in the male passages of rabbits is probably not more than 10 days .
Some Theoretical Considerations.\#151 ; The fact that ovulation does not take place until after the procestrum ( or at any rate until after the commencement of the external bleeding stage of the procestrum ) is in opposition to the view that heat and menstruation are produced by ovulation , or by the corpus luteum .
It is also contrary to the theory that the degeneration stage occurs as a result of the absence of a fertilised ovum for which the preceding growth was preparing .
The theory that the destruction stage of the procestrum is of the nature of an abortion related to an ovum released at the preceding period is untenable , owing to the comparative infrequency of the heat periods ( and , therefore , of the ovulation periods ) in the bitch .
On the other hand , the hypothesis that the entire procestrous process is of the nature of a preparation for the lodgment of the ovum is in accordance with the facts .
Part II .
The Cause of Heat .
As pointed out by Brown-Sdquard and others , the ovaries , like the testes , exercise an influence on the general metabolism of the organism throughout the reproductive period .
Ovarian medication has been 1905 .
] Physiology of Mammalian Reproduction .
-Hu of | Ilk fefi ; ll| ilj : \#171 ; i|s eli iis || itionr rash1 foil iU t# 'j0 oft# eri# ili g employed to a considerable extent for disorders associated with the female generative organs , and in the majority of cases is said to have produced beneficial results .
This method of treatment , however , is in many cases purely empirical and is adopted without regard to the condition of the ovaries from which the extract is obtained .
Several investigators have experimented with ovarian grafts both in normal and abnormal positions .
From some of these experiments it would appear that portions of ovarian tissue may obtain vascular connections , and produce an effect on the general metabolism comparable to that produced by ovaries in normal animals .
It has been shown by Goltz and others that the occurrence of oestrus is not due entirely to cerebral or spinal reflexes .
Our experiments have demonstrated that " heat , " or a transient condition resembling it , can be produced by the injection of extracts made from ovaries in a prooestrous or oestrous condition , and that when such ovaries are successfully grafted into an animal previously deprived of its ovaries , the condition produced is identical with a normal heat , and that irrespective of the situation of the graft .
The Function of the Corpus Luteum.\#151 ; Of the various theories as to the function of the corpus luteum , that of Fraenkel is the only one that is supported by experimental evidence .
According to this theory the corpus luteum is the only ovarian organ of internal secretion , and exerts an influence on the generative functions generally throughout the whole reproductive period of the animal 's life .
Among its other functions , according to this theory , it produces heat and menstruation and controls the attachment of the ovum and the formation of the placenta .
This theory is only partially correct Corpora lutea are not present during the prooestrum and are therefore only functional subsequent to ovulation .
From our own experiments upon bitches and rats we draw the conclusion that the presence of luteal tissue is necessary during the first part of pregnancy , but that the corpus luteum ceases to be functional during the later stages .
In these experiments we removed the ovaries from animals at various intervals after impregnation , and found that pregnancy did not continue , except in those cases in which the operation was performed in the later stages of pregnancy .
Control experiments in which the ovaries were damaged or partially removed were also performed , when it was found that the animals brought forth young .
General Conclusions.\#151 ; The ovary is an organ providing an internal secretion which is elaborated by the follicular epithelial cells or by the interstitial cells 'f the stroma .
This secretion circulating in the blood induces menstruation aQd heat .
After ovulation , which takes place during oestrus , the corpus 398 Dr. O. Rosenheim .
Chi tin in the Carapace of [ May 27 , luteum is formed and this organ provides a further secretion whose function is essential for the changes taking place during the attachment and development of the embryo in the first stages of pregnancy .
Chitin in the Carapace of Pterygotus osiliensis , from the Silurian Bocks of Oesel .
By Otto Rosenheim , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Professor W. D. Halliburton , P.R.S. From the Physiological Laboratory , King 's College , London .
Received May 27 , \#151 ; Read June 8 , 1905 .
) Professor E. Ray Lankester , who has been interested in the constitution of the carapace of certain fossil Eurypterids found in Oesel in rocks of Silurian age , placed the matter in the hands of Mr. Bather , of the Geological Department , Natural History Museum .
In March last Mr. Bather asked Professor Halliburton 's co-operation in the chemical investigation , stating that a preliminary examination , made by himself and Mr. G. T. Prior , led them to believe that the material retained its chitinous nature .
When the small fragments of the carapace , which were all that could be spared from the duplicate specimens in the British Museum , arrived in this laboratory , Professor Halliburton placed them in my hands , and I proceeded to examine them for chitin .
Gamgee , in his ' Text-book of Physiological Chemistry , '* gives a long list of various invertebrate structures , mainly epiblastic , where chitin has been described , but the list is only approximately accurate , as Gamgee points out that , in many cases , a chitinous composition has been ascribed to a structure solely on the ground of its insolubility in caustic alkalis and dilute acids , or even in only one of these two classes of reagents .
In 1884 the list was extended by Halliburton , j- who showed that the cartilages occurring in Sepia and Limulus contain a small percentage of chitin ; this was confirmed in the case of Sepia by Krukenberg , | who found the same material in the skeletal structures in that animal .
It has further been found in certain fungi .
S * Vol. 1 , p. 299 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' No. 235 , 1885 ; 'Quart .
Journ. of Micros .
Science , ' vol. 25 , p. 173 1885 .
t 'Ber- d. deutsch .
Chem. Ges .
, ' vol. 18 , p. 993 , 1885 .
S Gilson , ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 120 ; Winterstein , ' Ber .
d. deutsch .
Chem. Ges .
, ' vols .
27 and 28 .

