Fig : 1 432+ m/ 1 ~~ + m/ 1 ~~ n Fig. 6 gGH q~ FI f West dL cP IV .
A Demonstration of an Error committed by common Surveyors in comparing of Surveys taken at long Intervals of Time arising from the Variation of the Magnetic Needle , by William Molyneux Esq ; F. R. S. THE Variation of the Magnetic Needle is so commonly known , that I need not insist much on the Explication thereof , it is certain that the true Solar Meridian , and the Meridian shown by a Needle , agree but in very few places of the World ; and this too , but for a little time ( if a Moment ) together .
The Difference between the true Meridian and Magnetic Meridian perpetually varying and changing in all Places and at all Times ; sometimes to the Eastward and sometimes to the Westward .
On which account it is impossible to compare two Surveys of the same place , taken at distant times , by Magnetic Instruments ( such as the Coircumferentor , by which the Down Survey , or Sir William Petty 's Survey of Ireland was taken ) without due allowance be made for this Variation .
To which purpose we ought to know the Difference between the Magnetic Meridian and true Meridian at that time of the Down Survey , and the said Difference at the time , when we make a New Survey to compare with the Down Survey .
But here I would not be understood , as if I proposed hereby to show , that a Map of the same place , taken by Magnetic Instruments at never so distant times , should not at one time give the same Figure and Contents as at another time .
This certainly it will do most exactly , the variation of the Needle having nothing to do either in the Shape or Contents of the Survey .
All that is affected thereby , is , the Bearings of the Lines run by the Chain , and the Boundaries between Neighbours .
And how this may cause a considerable Error ( unless due allowance be made for it ) is what I shall prove most fully .
In order to which , let us suppose that about the Year 1657 .
( at which time the Down Survey was taken ) the Magnetic Meridian and true Meridian did agree at Dublin , or pretty nigh all over Ireland ; that is to say , that there was no Variation .
And indeed by Experiment it was at that time found , as I am well assured , that at Dublin it was hardly half a Degree .
Let us suppose that in the Year 1695 .
the Variation was 7 Degrees from the North to the Westward : that it was really so , I believe I am pretty well assured , from an Experiment thereof made by my self with all diligence .
But this is not material , let us now only suppose it .
Let AB represent the Survey of two Town Lands , one in the possession of A , and t'other in the possession of B , which we will call A Town-Land and B TownLand , taken by the Down Survey , Anno 1657 .
when there was no Variation .
Let the Line NS running through the Point P be the true Meridian , and consequently the Magnetic Meridian also at that time , because of the supposed no Variation , and let this Line NS be also the Boundary between the two Town-Lands A and B. In the Year 1695 .
when the Variation is 7 Degrees from the North to the Westward , B having a Map of the Down Survey , and being suspicious that his Neighbour A had incroached on him by a Ditch P Q , employs a Surveyor to inquire into the Matter : The Surveyor finds by his Map that the Boundary between B and his Neighbour A run from the Point P through a Meadow directly according to the Magnetic Meridian SP N ; but observing the Ditch PQ cast up much to the Eastward of the present Magnetic Meridian , he concludes that A. has incroached on B , and that the Ditch ought to have been cast up alongst the Line P q , the Angle QPq being an Angle of 7 Degrees , that is the present Variation of the Needle ; and the Line Pq the present Magnetic Meridian : For which Variation , not making any allowance , he positively determines that B. has all the Land in the Triangle QP q , more than he ought to have ; and that his Ditch ought to run alongst the Line P q. It is true indeed , if the Surveyor go the whole Surround of the Lands A and B he will find their Figure and Contents exactly agreeable to the Map here expressed .
But then the Bearings of the Lines are all 7 Degrees different from the Bearings in the Map , and they will run in and out upon the adjacent Neighbouring Lands , and cause endless Differences between their Posiessors ; as is manifest from the Figure : wherein the pricked Lines represent the Disagreement in the Bearings of the Lines , protracted from the Point P ; and we see A encroaching on his Neighbours on the Westward , as he incroaches on B , and B 's Eastward Neighbours encroaching on him , and so forward and clear round .
Whereas , by a due allowance for the Variation of the Needle , all this Confusion and Disagreement is avoided , and every thing hits right .
Thus for instance in the Case before us , knowing that the Magnetic Variation has caused the present Magnetic Meridian to fall in the Line nqP s , 7 Degrees from the North to the Westward ; to Reduce this to the Magnetic Meridian at the time of the Down Survey , I must make the Meridian of my Map to fall 7 Degrees to the Eastward of my Magnetic Meridian ; as we see the Line PQ falls 7 Degrees to the Eastward of the Line P q. What is here said on supposition that the Magnet had no Variation at the time of the first Survey taken , and that it had 7 Degrees variation Westward at the time of the second Survey , may easily be accommodated to the supposal of any other Variations at the first and second Surveys , Mutatis mutandis , for knowing the Variations we know their Difference ; and if we know their Difference , this gives us the Angle QP q , by which we reduce them to each other .
The best way therefore to make Maps invariable , constant , and everlasting , were for the Surveyors , who use Magnetic Instruments to make always allowance for the Magnetic Variation , and to protract and lay down their Plats by the true Meridian .
This the wary Sailor is fully convinced of : and therefore in Steering his Course , he constantly allows for the present Variation , which he observes by the Azimuth Compass , or else he would miss his appointed Harbour oftner then he would hit it : For no two Points on the Globe keep the same Bearing to each other by the Magnetic Meridian for any time together .
And though the Variation be slow , yet in a long Course , or in times pretty distant , it may cause vast Errors , unless allowed for .
Thus for instance , Suppose in the Year 1660 .
a Sailor had steered from the Lands-end of England to Cape Fenister in Spain , by his Magnetic Compass a direct South Course ; and that at that time there were no Varation .
Afterwards , Anno 1700 .
when there was ( suppose ) 7 Degrees of Variation from the North to the Westward , another Sailor intending to make the same Passage , steers directly the same Southerly Course by his Magnetic Compass ; I say , this last Seaman will be carried far into the Bay of Biscay to the Eastward , and will miss of his desired Port by many Leagues ; but if in his Course he hath allowed for this Variation , and instead of sailing a direct Southerly Course by his Compass , he had steered 7 Degrees from the South to the Westward , he had hit his Point .
Whether these be the true Bearings of these two Places , it matters not : we go on the Supposition that they are .
Perhaps it may be objected , That Surveys may be taken without Magnetic Instruments , and that therefore this Error arising from the Magnetic Variation , and Change of the Bearing of Lines , may be avoided .
To which I Answer , first , That granting a Survey may be taken without Magnetic Instruments , this is nothing against what we have laid down relating to Surveys that are taken with Magnetic Instruments , as the Down Survey actually was , and most Surveys at present actually are taken therewith .
Secondly , Though a Survey may be taken truly without Magnetic Instruments , so as to show the exact Angles and Lines of the Plat , and consequently the true Contents , yet this will not give the true Bearings of the Lines , or show my Position in relation to my Neighbours , or the other parts of the Country .
This must be supplied by the Magnet , or something equivalent thereto , as finding a true Meridian Line on your Land by Celestial Observation .
And I doubt not but the ancient Egyptians , before the Discovery of the Magnet were forced to some such Expedient in their Surveys and Applotments of Lands , between Neighbour and Neighbour , after the Inundations of the Nile , which , we are told , gave the first Or ginal to Geometry and Surveying .
Absolute Necessity and Use having introduced these , as Delight and Diversion introduced Astronomy amongst the Chaldeans .
And this brings me to another Objection which may be made against the Instance before laid down : It may be said , That certainly the Surveyor which B employed was very ignorant , who would choose to judge of the Line P Q. rather by its bearing than by determining the Point Q , by measuring from H and G. To this I answer , What if both the Points H and G were vanished since the Down Survey was taken ?
What if the whole face of the Country were changed , save only the Point P and the Line P Q ?
How shall the Surveyor then judge of the Line PQ but by its bearing ?
That this is no extravagant Supposition , we have an Example in Egypt above mentioned , where the Nile lays all flat before it , and so uniformly covers all with Mud , that there is no distinction .
In such a Case your Bearing must certainly help you out , there is no other way .
But I answer secondly , To say that the Surveyor might have determined the Point Q by admeasurement from G and H , or any other adjoining noted Points , as from F , K , I , &amp;c. it is very true ; But then it is against our Supposition .
I am upon showing an Error that arises from judging of the Line PQ by Magnetic bearing , and to tell me that this might be avoided by another way , is to say nothing .
I my self show how it may be avoided by allowing for the Variation ; but still it is an Error , till it be avoided .
But thirdly , If B 's Surveyor do not allow for the Variation of the Needle , he will never exactly determine even the Points G , F , H , K , &amp;c. or any other Points in the Plat ; but instead thereof will fall on the Points g , h , f , k. From what has been laid down , we may see the absolute necessity of allowing for the Variation of the Magnet , in comparing old Surveys with new ones ; for want of which great Disputes may arise between neighbouring Proprietors of Lands : and it were to be wished that our Honourable and Learned Judges would take this Matter into their Consideration whenever any Business of this kind comes before them .
Hitherto an absolute Acquiescence in the Down Survey , without any of the fore-mention 'd Allowance , has been agreed upon as a standing Rule in our Courts of Judicature in Ireland ; but that many Men may be injured thereby , I suppose is manifest from what foregoes .
I have only this to add , That least I be thought herein to strike at the Truth or Exactness of the Down Survey , it is not at all the intention of this Paper , but rather to confirm it , by showing which way Men ought to Examine it truly , and not by the common ways used by them , which rather confound it , and all that claim under it .
See the Table Fig. 6 .
Although this Paper was chiefly designed for the ending of Contests in the Kingdom of Ireland about the interests of some of those whose Lands are Neighbouring , and have been Surveyed by Magnetic Instruments , yet considering its universal Use , it was thought it would be very grateful to the Curious to publish it here .

