1903 .
] Constitution-of the Copper-Tin Series of Alloys .
409 Bakerian Lecture.\#151 ; " On the Constitution of the Copper-Tin Series of Alloys .
" By C. T. Heycock , F.R.S. , and F. IT .
Neville , F.B.S. Received February 26 , \#151 ; Lecture delivered February 26 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is an attempt to fill a very serious gap in the study of alloys .
As a rule , an alloy begins to be interesting when the temperature of the liquid alloy has fallen to its freezing point .
This point , which records the moment when solid first appears in the liquid , is easily observed on account of the evolution of latent heat that occurs on the formation of solid , and if the freezing points of all the alloys of a series are determined , we can plot the freezing-point curve .
Many such curves have been traced in the last ten years : that of the copper-tin alloys is given by the upper line in our diagram .
The curve consists of several branches cutting each other in angular points .
The one thing that these curves record without ambiguity is the number of different solids that can crystallise out of the liquid alloys , for each branch corresponds to the crystallisation of a different substance .
But this is almost all that such curves tell us with certainty .
They do not tell us whether the solids forming are the pure metals , or pure compounds , or crystalline solid solutions of the metals .
Other experiments are needed to decide such questions .
The other great branch of the study of alloys consists in the microscopic examination of the solid alloys after they have cooled to ordinary temperature , that is to say , after they have , in general , ceased to undergo change .
Between these two series of experiments there is an enormous gap of temperature , it may be 1000 or 500 degrees , and it is in this range of temperature that the whole life-history of the alloy , regarded as an organism , is to be found .
The only fruitful experiments we know of dealing with this intermediate region are the cooling curves of Roberts-Austen and Stansfield .
These observers traced automatically the whole of the cooling of the bronzes and obtained some remarkable results .
They found that the evolution of heat at the freezing point was often succeeded at much lower temperatures by other evolutions of heat , and that many of these must have occurred after the alloy had wholly solidified .
These thermal changes point to important chemical or physical changes , though they do not tell us what these changes are .
They suggest , however , that the final patterns found by the microscope in the solid alloys are likely to be very complicated , as they may contain several records superposed the one on the other .
We found these patterns very beautiful , but hopelessly complicated .
410 Messrs. C. T. Heycock and F. H. Neville .
[ Feb. 26 , It occurred to us , and this is the method of the paper , that we could simplify the phenomena by a systematic chilling of the ingots at selected temperatures .
A number of small ingots of the same alloy were placed in separate tubes in a bath of tin , together with a recording pyrometer , the temperature was raised above the freezing point of the alloy , and the whole very slowly cooled , the slow cooling being an essential feature of the experiment .
Ingots were then extracted at selected temperatures and rapidly chilled by immersion in water .
The microscopic examination of these chilled ingots showed that it was quite easy to distinguish the large crystals , that had formed during the slow cooling preceding the chill , from the matter that was liquid when the ingot was withdrawn from the furnace .
Successive chills of an alloy exhibit the solid growing in amount as the temperature falls , and finally show the ingot completely full of solid .
We thus obtain , with very reasonable accuracy , the temperature of complete solidification of the alloy ; and by applying the method to alloys with different percentages of tin we have traced a new curve , the " solidus , " or curve of complete solidification .
The solidus of the bronzes is the second line of the diagram .
It is a remarkable line , made up of sloping , horizontal and vertical branches .
As in the freezing-point curve , each branch corresponds to the crystallisation of a different solid .
In the notation of Professor Roozeboom , the upper curve ABC ... I , is called the liquidus , because all wholly liquid alloys lie above it ; and the solidus , AWa^/ EoE3H'H'T , is so named because all wholly solid alloys lie below it .
The solidus of the bronzes is remarkable for the very narrow range of temperature within which some alloys pass from the wholly liquid to the wholly solid state .
According to Roozeboom 's theory , each sloping branch of the solidus , and there are four such in the diagram , corresponds to the crystallisation out of the liquid of a different series of solid solutions , each vertical part to the crystallisation of a pure body , and each horizontal part to the case of the solid alloy at temperatures immediately below the solidus , being a complex of two substances .
Our examination of the chilled ingots has completely verified all these statements .
The evolutions of heat observed by Roberts-Austen and Stansfield at temperatures corresponding to the point C , D , G and H are due to definite chemical transformations in which one solid is decomposed and another is formed .
Chills taken immediately above and below these critical temperatures reveal the nature of each change most clearly .
The transformations at C , D , and especially at H , are very slow and do not become complete unless the temperature is maintained constant for hours or days at a point slightly below the transformation temperature , but all these changes can be made to agree exactly with wmmm Temp. c. 1000 ' of Tin tomic Percents of Tin TOMIC PERCENTS OF THE EQUI LIBRIUM COPPER-TIN ALLOYS .
F.YCOCK 8 : NEVII .
I. R 1903 .
] Constitution of the Copper-Tin Series of Alloys .
411 Prof. A. Agassiz .
Formation of [ Feb. 7 , theory if time is allowed for them .
The change at the G temperature is the breaking up of a solid solution into a mixture of the compound Cu3Sn and liquid , and is instantaneous : here we have a case of a solid partially melting as it cools .
The curve 1XE'/ forms with the part of the solidus immediately above it an area , roughly triangular , within which all the alloys appear to be uniform solid solutions , but , as soon as an alloy cools to the curve , it becomes saturated and a new body crystallises out of the solid solution .
One branch of the curve 1XE'/ corresponds to the crystal lisation of a body rich in copper , the other to the crystallisation of a body rich in tin , which is probably the pure compound Cu4Sn .
The angle X ( or rather C ' ) , is the eutectic angle at which both bodies crystallise together , the whole phenomenon being exactly like crystallisation out of a liquid .
All the results obtained from the study of the chilled alloys are in harmony with the pyrometric work of Roberts-Austen and Stansfield , and many of the changes we have examined correspond to an evolution of heat recorded by them .
The paper is an extension of a short paper published by us in the ' Proceedings ' of December , 1901 .
On the Formation of Barrier Beefs and of the Different Types of Atolls .
" By Alexander Agassiz , For .
Mem. R.S. Received February 7 , \#151 ; Read March 19 , 1903 .
The results here presented are based upon observations carried on during the past 25 years in Florida , the Bermudas , Bahamas , Cuba , Jamaica , and the West Indies in the Atlantic .
They include in the Pacific the Galapagos , the Hawaiian Islands , the Great Barrier Reef of Australia , the Fiji Islands , and the Coral Reefs and Islands of the tropical Pacific , from the Marquesas to the Paumotus , the Society Islands , the Cook Archipelago , Niue , the Tonga , Ellice , Gilbert , and Marshall Islands , the Carolines and Southern Ladrones , and the Maldives , in the Indian Ocean .
Recognising that Darwin 's theory did not explain the conditions observed , my reports were limited to descriptions of the different types of Coral reefs and of the causes to which they probably owed their formation , and no attempt was made to establish any independent general theory .
Beginning with the Barrier Reefs , we find that those of Fiji , the Hawaiian Islands , and the West Indies usually flank volcanic islands and are underlaid by volcanic rocks .
Those of New Caledonia ,

