the operationi is here termed a clinant .
If the rotation may take place on any variable plane , the operation is a quoaternion .
The laws of scalars are immediately proved to be the same as those of tensors , but in addition they introduce the idea of negativity .
This enables us in the algebra of scalars , to invert a sum generally , and thus allows of a perfect inversion of the first two formations .
But a power with a fixed integral exponient can only be inverted on certain conditions .
This partial inversion , however , leads to a solution of quadratic equations , and to a proof that formations colsisting of a sum of integral powers , caninot be reduced to null by more scalar values of the variable than are marked by its highest exponent .
Hence if such a formation is always equal to null , all the coefficients of the variable must be inIull .
We thus obtaiin the inethod of indeterminate coefficients , by which we are enabled to discover a series which obeys the laws of repetitio-n with respect to its variable , and becomes equal to a power when its variable is an integer .
This enables us to define a power with any index , as this series , and hence to attempt the inversion of powers with variable indices , which we succeed in accomplishing unider certain conditions .
This investigation introduces the logarithm of a tensor , powers with fractional and negative exponents , and the binomial theorem for these powers .
It also induces us to consider the laws offormators , or the operations by which a formation of any variable is constructed .
They are shown to be commutative and associative in addition , associative in multiplication , directly distributive and repetitive , but not generally commutative in multiplication , nor even inversely distributive .
When formators are commutative in multiplication and distribution , they are entirely homonomous with scalars , which may even be considered as a species of formators .
The results of the former investigation , therefore , show that logarithms , fractional and negative powers , and the binomial theorem hold for these commuLtative f'ormators .
The necessity of tabulating logarithms and of approximating to the solutions of equations , leads to the consideration of a method of deriving consecutive values of formations for known differences of the variable , and of interpolating values of the same formation for intermediate values of the variable ; that is , the alebra of d ?
ffierences .
Considering the two operations of altering a formation by increasing the variable , and taking the difference between two different values of the formation ( of which operations the first is necessarily unity added to the second ) , we regard them as formators , and immediately apply the results of that algebra , which furnishes all the necessary formulae .
For approximating to the roots of equations , we require to consider the case where the variable changes inlfinitesimally , thus founding the algebra of dffiferentials , which is , in fact , a mere simplification of that of differences , owing to all the results being ultimately calculated for assignables only .
Finally , to find the alteration in a formiation of commutative formators , when the variable formator is increased by any other formator , we found the algebra of derivatives .
In applying the results of sealar algebra to geometry , we start with the fundamental propositions that the appense of the sides of an enclosed figure taken in order is a point , and that when the magnitude and direction of the diagonal of a parallelogram or parallelopipedon , and lines parallel the sides which have the same initial point as the diagonal , are given , the whole figures are completely determined .
In order to introduce scalars , a unit-sphere is imagined , with its radii parallel to the lines in any figure , and in known directions .
Any line can then be represented as the result of perfo-rming a scalar operation on the corresponding radius .
The first object is to reduce the consideration of angles to that of straight lines , by the introduction of cosines and sines , which are strictly defined as the scalars represernted by the relation of the abscissa to the abscissal radius , and the ordinate to the ordinate radius respectively .
These definitions immediately lead to the relations between the cosines and sines of the sums of two angles , and those of the angles themselves , whatever be their magnitude or direction , and thus found goniometry .
Defining a projection of any figure on any plane to be that formed by joining the points on that plane corresponding according to any law with those of the figure , we have the fundamental relation that , if the first , and therefore the second figure is enclosed , the appense of the sides of the second in the order indicated by the sides of the first , is a point .
The orthogonal projection of any figure , by means of planes drawn perpendicular to any line , being all in one line , each projection can be represented as the result of a scalar operation performed on the same unit radius , and hence this projection leads to one invariable relation between scalars .
By choosing three lines at right anlgles to each other on which to project , we obtain three scalar relations from every solid figure .
If the figure is plane , then by projecting on a line and on a perpendicular to that line , we get two scalar relations .
Applying these results to transversals , where a line parallel to one unit radius cuts several other unit radii , produced either way if necessary , we obtain , by considering two intersected radii , the results of trigonometry , and by considering three or four intersected radii , those of anharmonic ratios .
As any line drawn from the centre of the unit-sphere may be considered as the appense of three lines drawn along or parallel to three given unit radii , it may be expressed as the sum of the results of three scalar operations performed on these radii respectively .
By properly varying these three scalars , the final point of the line may be made to coincide with any point in space .
But if there be a given relation between the scalars , then the number of points will be limited , and the whole number of the points constitutes the locus of the original concrete equation referred to the accessory abstract equation .
The considerationi of this entirely new view of coordinate geometry is reserved for a second memoir .
Proceeding next to the laws of clinants , we readily demonstrate that they are the same as the laws of scalars ; they introduce a new conception , however , that of rotating through an angle not necessarily the same as a semi-r-evolution , that is , of a plane versor .
By the concrete equation of coordinate geometry , it is immediately shown that all clinants can be expressed as the sum of a scalar , and of the product of a scalar by a fixed , but arbitrarily chosen versor .
The simplest versor to select is the quadrantal versor , which , under the namne of quadrantation , is now studied .
The two addends of a clinant , considered as a sum , are called its scalar and vector ; its two factors , considered as a product , are its tensor and versor .
The laws of these parts are them studied .
The statical algebra of clinants has for its object the reduction of all combinations of clinants given in the standard form of the sum of a scalar and vector , to a clinant of the same form .
The application of this to the series obtained for a general scalar power , leads to two series , called cosines and siues of the variables , as distinguished from the gonioinetrical cosines and sines of an angle , with which they are ultimately shown to have a close connexion , which can be rendered most evident by assuming as the unit-angle that subtended by a circular arc of the length of its radius .
Studying these series quite independently of these relations to angles , we discover that they bear to each other the same relations as the goniometrical cosines and sines , and that if the least tensor value of the variable for which the cosine series becomes null , is known , all its other values can be found by multiplying this by four times any scalar integer .
This last product must be added to the least tensor valuie of the variable for which both the cosine or the sine series become equal to given scalars , in order to find all the solutions of such equations .
Supposing the values of such series tabulated by the method of differences for all scalar values of the variable , so that such least tensor values can always be found , we are now able to assign the meaning of any power whose base and index are both clinants , and the logarithm of any clinant .
This enables us to invert completely all the simple formations , sum , product , power with variable base and constant index , or constant base and variable index ; and hence to solve all equations of four dimensions with clinant coefficients , and to show that every formation consisting of a sum of integral powers with clinant coefficients , can be expressed as a product of as many simple formations as is determined by the highest index of the variable .
The cosine and sine series can also be generally inverted .
The versor of any clinrant having a known angle ( which is always equal to the cosine of its angle added to the product of the sine of its angle into a quadrantal versor ) , can now be shown to equal the cosine series added to the sine series multiplied by a quadrantal versor , when the variable of the series is the scalar ratio of the angle of the clinant to the angle subtended by a circular arc equal to its radius .
From this the ratio of the circumference to the diameter of a circle is showni to be twice the least tensor value of the variable , for which the cosine series is equal to null ; and as that value can be readily assigned in a convergent series , the former ratio is determined .
The same investigation shows the relation already mentioned between the goniometrical cosines and sines , and the cosine and sine series .
Clinant ( tiebraical geometry allows us to interpret all results of Clinanit algebra when referred to lines on one plane .
It thus furnishes a complete explanation of the " imaginary " points and lines in the theory of anharmonic ratios , when viewed in relation to the unit radii , as already explained .
In the case of coordinate geometry of two , and even three dimensions , the possibility of interpreting the results of a clinant operation performed on a given unit radius in a given plane , allows us to understarnd the whole theory of ' , imaginary " intersections .
The theory of scalar and cinnt alt gebraica coordinate yeometry will form the suLbject of a future memoir .
Proceeding to quaternions , we find their laws to be the same as those of clinants while the plane remains unaltered ; but if the plane is alterable , they cease to be commutative in multiplication , that relation being replaced by one between certain related quaternions called their conjugates .
This makes the algebra of quaternions ( which is not here systematized , as being too recent ) entirely different from that of scalars .
In mechanics the motion of any point is not colisidered absolutely as in dynamical geometry , but relatively to some external , constant , independent motion , as the apparent motion of the fixed stars ; this gives the conception of time .
But the nlecessity of considering the motion not merely of a point , but of a body , gives rise to the comparison of the motions of various bodies , and to a conception of their equality , when the products of their velocities , multiplied by a constant which is always the same for the same body , but different for differenit bodies , are equal .
This constant is the mass , which in bodies of the same kind varies as the volume .
, By considering the case of the mutual destru ction of motion , we eliminate time and simplify the problem , thus founding statics ; and by conceivring the motion of any body to be destroyed by the applicationi of variable motions equal and opposite to those actually existent , we reduce dynamics to statics .
XII .
" On the Laws of Operation , and the Systematization of Mathematics .
" By ALEXANDER J. ELLIS , Esq. , B.A. , F.C.P.S. Communicated by ARCHIBALD SMITH , Esq. , M.A. Received May 26 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the following investigation is to give a firmer basis to the calculus of operations , to assign the strict limits and connexion of the mathematical sciences , and to found them upon purely inductive considerations , without any metaphysical or a priori reasoning .
Starting with the indemonstrable but verifiable hypothesis , that objects exist external to the subject , we recognize equality as existing between objects with common and peculiar properties , in respect of their common properties .
Operations , which , when performed on equal objects , produce equal objects as their result , are recognized as equal , in respect to the common properties considered in the equalities of the objects .
When onie operation is performed on an object , and another on the resultant object , the single operation by which the first object is transformable into the last is regarded as the product of the other two , the order of succession being important .
When the resultant object is the same as the original operand , the product of the operations is termed unity .
Wheni two operations performed on the same object produce different resultant objects , the operation of transforming onie of these resultant objects into the other , is regarded as the quotient of the two former operations .
Two operations are termed reciprocal when their product is unity .
Hence the quotient of two operations is the product of the one and of the reciprocal of the otner .
When two objects are combined in any manner so as to produce a third , and the two first are formable from any fourth by two known operations , the single operation by which the third object can be also formed from the fourth , is termed the same combination of the two first operations .
From this we gain the conception of null or zero , as the operation of annihilating any object in respect to any place .
The product of a combination of two operationis a id a third operation , is the same comb)ination1 of the products VWI .
X. 11 of each of the combined operations severally and the third operation , in the particular order thus specified , provided all the operations and products are performable on the same operand .
The above general conceptions and laws of combined operations hold for any operations whatsoever with their appropriate operand objects ; but thie nature of the operations and operands requires especial study .
In maotleinatics , objects are only colnsidered with respect to their three most general properties : first , as contemplatable in discontinuous succession , whence number and Ae titmetic ; secondly , as contemplatable in continiuou successioni , whence extension and Geometry ; and thirdly , as contemplatable in a continuous succession bearing a relation to another continuous succession , wherice motion in time and M1echanics .
The problem of mathematics is , first , to discover the laws of these successions as respects results ( that is , statically ) , by means of conisiderations drawn from contemplating operations ( that is , dyniamical ) ; secondly , to investigate the relations of these laws , giving rise to statical algebra ; thirdly , to reduce all dynamical to statical laws , as in dynamical algebra ; and fourthly , to make the expression of all the results dependent on the most simple , viz. those of common arithmetic .
The purpose of the problem is to prepare the mind for the further investigation of nature , and to increase practical power immediately .
In Arithmentic we conceive objects spread out in a scale , and by aggregating those contained betweeii any one and the beginning of the scale , form statical groups , whose distii etive character is derived from the scale The ope-ration by which any group is formed from the first object is termed an ntege ' , the especial laws of which are next investigated .
All objects being interchangeable in respect to discontinuous succession , an aggregate is not changed by altering the disposition of its parts .
This leads to the first two laws of comnmutation and association in additon , The possibility of arran ging objeets at once in two horizontal directiois , and a third vertical direction , leads to the laws of commutatio z and associat-ion in multiplicatioi .
Combining these with the two former , we have the law of comnutative distrihution .
From ; the laws of association in multiplication is immediately deduced the law ?
of pepetition or i ; dices .
Having obtained these laws , we proceed to study their relations in the alyebra of inteqers , first , statically , i order to reduce all results to the form of a numerical integer ; secondly , dynamically , considering the effect of a variation in the integer employed .
This leads to the conception of a formation ( Lagrange 's " analytical function " ) , as a combination of a fixed and independently variable integer .
Such a combination is , therefore , also itself dependently variable .
The inversion of formations , whereby the independent variable is expressed as a formation of the dependent variable , immediately engages our atterntion .
The inversion of a sum leads to a difference , with the limitation that the minuend should be greater than the subtrahend .
The inversion of a product leads to a quotient , with the limitation that the dividend should be a multiple of the divisor .
The inversions of a power lead to the root and logarithm , with increasing limitations .
The study of discontinuous objects them allows the application of these inversions to the solution of problems in common life .
The operation by which any group in the arithmetical scale already described is formable from any other group in the same scale , leads to the conception of affraction , necessarily expressible , according to the general laws of operation , as the quotient of two integers .
The operands of such operations must admit of being separated into certain numbers of equal parts , or rather , in order that they may admit of any fractional operation , into any number of equal parts .
Thus discontinuous approaches continuous succession .
The laws of fractions are the same as the laws of integers , provided the indices used are all iiitegers .
The object of the statical algebra offractions is to reduce all combinations of numerical fractions to numerical fractions .
The inversion of formations is less limited than before .
There is the same limitation respecting differences , but none respecting quotients .
The attempt to coilvert all fractions into radical fractions ( whose denominators are some powers of the radix of the system of numeration ) , leads to the conception of convergent infinite series , and hence allows an approximation to the inversion of a power with a constant index .
In Geometry , the notion of continuous succession or extension is derived from the motion of the hand , which recognizes separable but not separated parts .
This motion gives the conception of surfaces , which by their intersections two and two , or three and three , give lines and points .
Recognizing a line as the simplest form of extension , we distinguish the straight lines , which coincide when rotated about two common points , from the curves , which do not .
These straight lines are shown to be fit operands for the integer and fraction operations .
By moving one coinciding line over another so as to conitinue to coincide ( by sliding ) , or to have one point only in common ( by rotating ) , or no points in common ( by translation ) , we obtain the conceptions of angles and parallels , which suffice to show that the exterior angle of a triangle is equal to the two interior and opposite , and that two straight lines meet or not according as the exterior angle they make with a third is not or is equal to , the interior angle .
Angles are then considered statically as amounts of rotation not exceeding a semi-revolution .
Proceeding to examine the relations of triangles and parallelograms , we discover the operationof taking a fraction of a straight line , and therefore of a triangle and of any rectilineal figure .
We see that this operation is , in fact , the same as that of altering a third line into a fourth , so that the multiples of the third and fourth , when arranged in order of magnitude , should lie in the same order as those of the first and second when similarly arranged .
The relation of two magnitudes , with respect to this order , we term their ratio , and the equality of ratios proportion .
The inversion and alternation of the four-terms of a proportion are now investigated .
The operation of changing any magnitude into one which bears a given ratio to it , is called a tensor .
The laws of tensors , being investigated , are shown to be the same as those of fractions .
They , however , furnish the complete conception of infinite and infinitesimal tensors , by letting one or other of the magnitudes by which the ratio is given become infinite or infinitesimal .
Thence is developed the law , that tensors differing infinitesimally are equal for all assignables .
Consequently tensors may be represented by convergent series of fractions ; The algebra of tensors allows of the inversion of a sum with the same limitation as in the case of fractions , the complete inversion of a product of tensors , and the practical inversion of a power with a constant integral index .
This algebra applied to geometry allows of the investigation of all statical relations , that is , of all the geometry of the ancients , in which magnitudes alone were considered , without direction .
In respect to areas , the consideration of the parallelogram swept out by one straight line translated so as to keep one point on another straight line , leads to an independent algebra of areas , il which the generating lines are considered immediately .
The laws of the relations of lines thns discovered , are shown to be identical with the laws of the relations of tensors .
Consequently , with certain limitations , the whole of the algebra of tensors may be interpreted as results in the algebra of areas .
This leads to a perfect conception of the principle of homonomy , or dissirmilar operations having the same laws , and consequently the same algebra .
In dynamical or modern geometry , all lines are considered as in construction , having initial and final points .
If the initial points of any two straight lines are joined to a third , not on either , and the two parallelograms be completed , the lines drawn from the point parallel to the given lines are dynamically equal to them ; if these last lie on each other , the first two lines have the same direction ; if the last have only one point in common and lie in the same straight line , the first have opposite directions ; and if the last do not lie in the same straight line , the first have difflerent directions , and the angle between the last is the angle between the first lines .
Similar definitions can be given of direction in the case of angles and circular arcs .
If from the final point of any lile we draw a line equal to a second , and join the initial point of the first with the final point of the line thus drawn , we are said to append the second to the first , and the joining line is called the appense of the other two .
The laws of a , ppension are shown to be the same as those of addition , and are hence expressible by the same signs of combination , the difference in the objects combined preventing any ambiguity .
We thus get the conception of a point as an annihilated line .
The tensor operation , considered dynamically , leads to the operation of changing a line dynamically so that it should bear the same relation to the result as two given lines bear to each other in magnitude and direction .
This assumes three principal forms according to the difference of direction .
If there is no difference of direction , the operation is purely a tensor .
If the directions differ by a semirevoluition , the rotation of one lin into the position of the other may take place on any planle .
The operation is then termed a negative sealar ; the tensor , which includes the operation of turning through any number of revolutions , is distinguished as a positive sealar .
If the rotation be tbroigh nany angle , but always on the same plane ,

