Gametogenesis and Sex-Dete7vmin Gall-Fly .
183 is suggested that the cell membrane or cytoplasm is constituted by a heterogeneous system of lipoids , proteins , etc. , held together in a magma containing a gel-forming substance with physical properties similar to those of the cholates .
On such a hypothesis , the biological action of certain substances can be explained in a manner more satisfactory than is possible by the assumption of the " lipoid " theory of Hans Meyer and Overton .
Gametogenesis and Sex-Determination Gall-Fly , Neuroterus lenticularis ( Spathegaster baccarum).\#151 ; Part III .
By L. Doncaster , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Fellow of King 's College , Cambridge .
( Received January 13 , 1916 .
) [ Plates 6 and 7 .
] In two previous papers on the maturation of the eggs and spermatozoa and determination of sex in Neuroterus * I showed ( 1 ) that any individual female of the agamic generation produces either male or female offspring , but not both ; ( 2 ) that the eggs of some agamic females undergo a reduction division at maturation , while those of others do not ; ( 3 ) that , since males have 10 chromosomes in the germ-cells before maturation , while females have 20 , the eggs which undergo reduction produce males , and those which do not , produce females ; ( 4 ) all eggs of the sexual generation undergo a double maturation division , and are fertilised , giving rise to females of the agamic generation with 20 chromosomes in the ovarian cells .
The maturation divisions in the eggs of the sexual generation were described as of a rather peculiar type , and some difficulty was experienced in forming a clear and connected idea of the process .
One important problem remained unsolved\#151 ; the nature of the difference between the male-producing and female-producing females of the agamic generation .
No difference was discernible between the flies of the two types , nor could any difference be found between their chromosome-groups in the ovarian divisions .
A tentative suggestion was made that the difference might depend on the existence of two kinds of spermatozoa , one of which might cause the fertilised egg to develop into a male-producing , the other into a female-producing agamic female , and this suggestion seemed to gain * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 82 , p. 88 ( 1910 ) ; and B , vol. 83 , p. 476 ( 1911 ) .
184 Dr. L. Doncaster .
and some support from the fact that in the spermatogenesis an extra-nuclear body was observed not to divide at the single spermatocyte division , but to pass over into one of the two spermatids .
Further investigation of the matter was interrupted by other work until 1913 , but in that year 1 determined to test the hypothesis mentioned by rearing the offspring of individual sexual females separately , and then finding whether each family contained both male-producing and female-producing individuals .
If they did not , that is to say , if the offspring of any one sexual female were all male-producing or all female-producing , the hypothesis that the difference depended on two kinds of spermatozoa would be disproved , for the receptaculum seminis of the fertilised female should contain both sorts of spermatozoa , and therefore both kinds of fertilised eggs should be laid by the one female.* At the same time I determined to test afresh the possibility that the two kinds of agamic females were derived respectively from fertilised and parthenogenetic eggs laid by the sexual females .
This seemed very improbable , for in almost every egg of the sexual generation examined for the maturation divisions , a spermatozoon was found , and it was therefore almost certain that all the eggs of the sexual generation are normally fertilised .
For the purpose of these experiments a number of females of the sexual generation were sleeved on oak twigs in May , 1913 , one female in each sleeve .
Some of the females used had been seen to copulate with males ; in other cases two or three males were enclosed in the sleeve with the female so that fertilisation would almost certainly take place , and finally a number of virgin females , from galls kept separately so as to make the access of a male impossible , were also sleeved on other twigs of the same oaks .
In several instances virgin females laid eggs in the leaves , but in no case was a gall produced , and the eggs appear either not to have developed at all or to have died at a very early age .
It may , therefore , be taken as certain that females of the sexual generation do not reproduce parthenogenetically .
Of the fertilised females , about a dozen produced galls on the leaves , some of them in considerable numbers .
These galls were allowed to grow until ripe in October , then collected and kept separately through the winter .
In February and early March a number of branches of an oak tree were covered with large muslin sleeves to prevent the access of wild flies , and when the galls were about to hatch they were placed in sleeves on the branches which had been covered , and also in some cases on uncovered branches , since the * If there were two kinds of males , producing different spermatozoa , the result under consideration would still be obtained if each sexual female paired with only one male .
This hypothesis is further considered later .
Sex-Determination in the Gall-Fly , N. lenticularis .
185 supply of galls was more than enough for the sleeves on the branches which had been covered .
About four to eight galls were put in each sleeve , and since some of the parent flies had produced 50-60 galls , in some cases a dozen or more sleeves were used for the galls produced by a single sexual female in the previous summer .
In all , over 80 lots of galls were sleeved out .
It would probably have been better , in some cases at least , to put only one gall in each sleeve , but as my previous experience had shown that flies when sleeved singly frequently fail to produce any galls , I judged it better to put several galls in each sleeve in order to be more certain of getting a result .
As it happened , the season was extraordinarily favourable , and when the leaves appeared those inside the sleeves were crowded with galls .
Not quite all were collected , but I hatched and noted the sex of about 9000 flies , as shown in the Table on pp. 186 and 187.* Inspection of this Table shows at once that the vast majority of flies reared in the sleeves containing galls produced by any one sexual female are of one sex , so that the sexual females A , B , F , H , J , and L had male-producing daughters , while the others had female-producing .
In most families , however , there is a small percentage of exceptions , and the question arises , what is the explanation of these ?
If they occurred exclusively in the sleeves on branches which had not been covered before the galls were sleeved out , it might be assumed that they were produced by very early wild flies which had laid eggs in the buds before the sleeves were put on the tree .
They are , however , about as numerous in sleeves on branches which had been covered as on uncovered branches .
Further it is to be noticed that the exceptional males in female families are about as numerous as females in male families , and that the number of exceptions varies largely from sleeve to sleeve in the same family .
For example , among the flies reared from sexual female C , sleeves 22a , 23 , 24 , 24a , 25 , 27a had no exceptions , with a total of 873 females , while sleeves 21 , 22 , 27 , 28 , 29 had a total of 501 females and 33 males , or over 6 per cent , of exceptions .
The other families show the same sort of thing .
In all , of 80 sleeves ( 35 male-producing , 45 female-producing ) , 18 of the male sleeves , \#166 ; containing 1,543 males , and 24 female sleeves , containing 2,561 females , had no exceptions .
Thus almost exactly half the sleeves were without exceptions , and these sleeves were evenly divided between the male and female producing , and contained nearly half the total flies reared ( 4,014 out of 9,574 ) .
Frequently , also , the exceptions appeared among the later flies to hatch ; this was only definitely recorded in the case * I take this opportunity of recording my indebtedness to Mr. F. Balfour Browne for his kindness in preserving some of the flies as they hatched , while I was prevented by indisposition from attending to them .
Dr. L. Doncaster .
Gametogenesis and Reference Numbers of Sleeves , above ( those which were on brandies which had been previously covered italicised ) .
Numbers and Sexes of Flies Hatched in each Sleeve , below .
Totals .
\lt ; M ^oot 05 iO CO CO 00 *o Of* CO tF CO t-CO 24 g 1683 ?
Of CO *OOf rH 1 1 1 1 1 1 \#166 ; \lt ; *004- rH 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0\gt ; *0 04-\lt ; N o\gt ; '\#166 ; o'^ \#171 ; s 1-4 J-I 1 1 1 1 1 1 00 o* oo jg \lt ; , Of S Ig 1 1 1 1 I 1 !
, Of S5 I g rH 00 *004- tocqg rH 1 1 1 1 i\gt ; ^Of O^rH gq 37 6\lt ; J 197 ?
1 iN *0 I ^ CO 1 \lt ; M I I-I O \lt ; M rH \#187 ; o 1 \lt ; M 1 05 rH ro CO rH GO rH 1 CO ^ X\gt ; 00 \lt ; N 1 CO 1 rH CO 1 CO rH \lt ; , Of a ig rH .4JH *0 04-CO CO GO rH 1 1 40 ^OCH-05 CO 1 \lt ; *0 j ^ MO Tf 1 CH " ( M | CO CO 1 CH " CO 1 GO 00 3o 1 1 \#187 ; o *''+- 1-1 g I\#151 ; rH CO I CM 1 CO rH 8 1 \#163 ; 00 1 CO ^ ( M \lt ; M 05 rH *.8 \lt ; Oh * 2 O 00 ^ CO \lt ; M rH ?
, Oh rH \lt ; *OOf CM 1 ?
*o 1 2 CO 1 ^ GO rH r\#153 ; 1 *OOf H 05 \lt ; M CO CM CM QO CO - I O* cq 1 eo ' CD ( M 8 o , SoCH- rH g \lt ; M S 21 15 \amp ; 107 ?
O I CH ' CO | 05 rH 004- rH 05 rH ID CM Sexual female parents .
A. Grails sleeved , March 2 ... B. Galls sleeved , March 2 ... C. Galls sleeved , March 10 ... o ' rH rC l a fi| \lt ; D OP o .
1 E. Galls sleeved , March 17 ... 1 F. Galls sleeved , March 11 ... Sex-Determination in the , N. lenticularis .
*OOf O 00 rH *OOf r *0 Of Is o rH IO Is *0 Of Ss cq ^OCH-CO CO rH foo CO 00 00 r-i rH Total offspring of females A , B , F , H , J , L , 4235 , 83 ?
( = 1 '92 per cent. ?
) .
Total offspring of females C , D , E. G , I , K , 5139 ?
, 117 \lt ; ?
( = 2 *23 per cent. \lt ; ?
) .
Grand total , 9574 , of which 200 ( 2 '09 per cent ) are exceptions .
1 1 11 1 1 l 1 1 i 1 !
05^0 lO CO 05 CM Is 11 1 1 !
1 1 1 1 1 do j 'f * ' \#163 ; h 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 \#187 ; 0 1 2 11 o\gt ; iS CO C5 00 rH 1 1 1 1 1 1 56 1\lt ; ?
128 ?
11 g lS " CO is I 0 ' rH 1 cq i 1 1 1 *o I lo 1 lO cq rH g\#171 ; \#171 ; \lt ; N is j Q4 " is 1 oq Th co ^Of 0 ' rH \lt ; N cq 1 1 1 i \lt ; *OOf S\#174 ; g *8 ' rH CO N ( MS rH 00 ^^OOf oo oq \#187 ; h 00 1 1 1 1 ^ j Of I is *oc+ ogio 8 l\#171 ; ^ *OOf oo cq iq OO 1 1 1 1 00 I *0 1 JO rH \#187 ; S ' ^ *OOf is rH IS CO 00 * ' ] 00 05 1 00 !
1 1 1 * ( N *o is oq 00 \lt ; M o* *o 1 '* 00 I '+-is 1 oq \lt ; oq rH *OCH-00 g N rH 1 1 1 1 \lt ; I Of s 1 g \gt ; H* ' 1 CO rH 1 lO CC ) *"004-is H \gt ; 0 05 ^ *o | *3 1 1 !
1 1 rH J Of io 1 ^ lO 8 ?
.l \gt ; H | 'f ' IS 1 05 io S\#163 ; 1 rH O *OOf ^ CO CO lo *OOf CO 00 ^ GO H rH G. Galls sleeved , March 11 ... rH 1 tti T3 \#163 ; \#163 ; 'S 1 rH rfl l a 05 05 ^5 CD Ts \lt ; 5 is rS ' l 8 hi ncT 05 05 05 T3 CO 3 * IS 3 a M tT s 05 05 To CD a \lt ; 5 S rH r=3 | \#163 ; H-g 05 CO * o ''3 a 05 rS \lt ; g \#166 ; 8 0 a -4-\gt ; *S rg r-H " 3 \#163 ; 00 o\gt ; TS rS B # 188 Dr. L. Doncaster .
Gametogenesis and of Series G , sleeve 52 , but it certainly occurred in other cases also .
These facts strongly suggested that the exceptions were due to the presence of eggs of wild flies , which were remarkably numerous in 1914 .
It seemed probable that , as the buds on the twigs of necessity pressed against the muslin in some of the sleeves , wild flies might have been able to insert their ovipositors through the meshes of the muslin and lay eggs in such buds .
The sleeves used were of muslin of two kinds , one considerably finer than the other .
Unfortunately no record was kept of which galls came out of sleeves of the two grades of coarseness , but it seems probable , if the explanation suggested is correct , that the sleeves containing no exceptions were of the finer mesh .
I was prevented in the summer of 1914 from repeating the whole experiment , as I wished to do , and an attempt made in 1915 failed because the flies laid no eggs ; but , in order to test whether flies can lay through the meshes of muslin , in the spring of 1915 I sleeved a number of twigs , and then put a number of galls in larger sleeves fastened outside the others .
Some sleeves were also left on the twigs with no outer sleeve , to see whether galls would be produced in them by wild flies .
As this was done before the end of February , two or three weeks before the flies begin to emerge , there is no chance of eggs having been laid in the buds before the sleeves were put on .
The result of this experiment was that out of 19 sleeves , each with galls in an outer sleeve enclosing it , three contained galls of the sexual generation in May .
In each case the galls were on leaves derived from one bud only ; in one sleeve there were 20 , in the second 18 , in the third 2 .
From the first two there were reared 17 females in the one case , 15 females and 2 males in the other .
Five twigs were covered with simple sleeves , to see whether galls might be produced in them by wild flies , but none contained any .
Although a much smaller proportion of galls were produced inside the sleeves^ than in the preceding year , this experiment proves conclusively that it is possible for the flies to oviposit through the meshes of the sleeves used , and the smaller proportion is probably due to the fact that the season of 1915 was much less favourable to the flies than that of 1914 .
Wild galls were extremely scarce at Cambridge as contrasted with their great abundance in 1914 , so that if it had not been for the kindness of my friend Mr. E. E. Unwin , who sent me a supply of galls from Reading , I might have not been able to obtain enough to supply sufficient material to complete the cytological work described below .
It is probable that the frost and snow of the last days of March , following a mild early spring , killed many of the flies before they had laid .
I think it may , therefore , be concluded with certainty that the exceptions recorded in about half the sleeves in the 1914 experiments were due to eggs laid by wild flies .
Sex-Determination in the Gall-F , N. lenticularis .
189 Maturation of the Fertilised Fggs .
The results of the experiments described make it certain that any individual sexual female produces exclusively , or almost exclusively , male-producing or female-producing agamic offspring .
The experiments , therefore , disprove the hypothesis that the two types of agamic female are due to dimorphism of the spermatozoa produced by one male .
Two possibilities then remain : the two types of agamic female may be due to two kinds of eggs laid by different sexual females ; or , if each sexual female mates with only one male , they may be due to two kinds of males which produce different spermatozoa , as has been suggested by Morgan in the somewhat analogous case of Phylloxera earycecaidis.* I have carefully re-examined my preparations of the spermatogenesis in a number of males , and can find no regular differences among them ; while not definitely denying their existence , I am unable to find any evidence for them .
There is certainly no difference in chromosome number , nor can I find that any chromosome is constantly larger or smaller in some males than in others .
It remained , therefore , to discover whether any differences could be found among the eggs laid by different sexual females , and on the analogy of the facts described in my earlier papers on the subject , it seemed possible that such differences might be expected in the maturation divisions .
Some indication that such differences might exist was given in the first paper , but as there was then no suspicion that the females were of two types , the eggs of individual females were not preserved separately .
It was therefore necessary to collect fresh material .
For this purpose , in the spring of 1914 , and again in 1915 , a number of females were allowed to lay separately , and their eggs preserved in Gilson 's acetic alcohol sublimate ( absolute alcohol , glacial acetic acid and chloroform , equal volumes ; sublimate to saturation ) at various ages up to about four or five hours after laying .
I have cut sections of these eggs ( I wish to record my indebtedness to Mr. I ) .
W. Cutler for valuable help in this part of the work ) and have also re-examined all the eggs preserved in 1906 and 1907 , on which the description in my previous paper was based .
The account that follows is thus derived from a series of over 300 eggs of 15 separate females , in addition to about 200 selected eggs of mixed females .
I estimate , however , that fully half of these are in stages either too young or too old to throw any considerable light on the maturation process .
The first suggestion of a difference in the maturation process of eggs of different females was that in some eggs the polar chromosomes , after the * T. H. Morgan , " The Predetermination of Sex in Phylloxerans and Aphids , " ' Journ. Exp. Zool. , ' vol. 19 , p. 285 ( 1915 ) .
Dr. L. Doncaster .
Gametogenesis and completion of the maturation divisions , remain separate and distinct , in some cases until the second or third segmentation division of the zygote nucleus , while in other eggs they become clumped together quite early , and cease to be distinguishable in the segmentation divisions .
To some extent this difference does appear to be characteristic of the eggs of some females , but it is by no means regular , and I think it cannot be regarded as a really distinguishing feature .
A second difference in the maturation of eggs laid by different females is found at an earlier stage , but it is difficult to say whether it is really significant .
In all cases the nucleus before maturation comes to the surface of the egg , when it is small and evenly stained , and is usually , perhaps always , flattened for a time against the edge of the egg.* The nucleus then enlarges , and its subsequent behaviour seems to show differences in the eggs of different females .
The differences between the two types will be described briefly , before giving a more detailed account of the maturation processes .
In the eggs of some females it becomes top-shaped , or like two cones attached to each other by their bases , the points of the cones being in a line perpendicular to the surface of the egg ( Plate 6 , Figs. I , 1 and 2 ; II , 1 and 2 ; III , 1 ) .
As the nucleus assumes this form , the chromatin becomes concentrated chiefly at the inner and outer points , but there is often also a single or double ring of granules round the equator , or common base of the two cones , which give the appearance of chromatin emitted from the nucleus .
In the subsequent stages of these eggs , as will be described more fully below , the separation of the chromosomes which will form the egg-nucleus from the inner polar chromosomes occurs almost simultaneously with the division of the outer group of polar chromosomes , with the result that as a rule three quite distinct groups of polar chromosomes are formed ( Figs. Ill , 7 ; IV , 5 and 6 ) .
In eggs of other females the process seems to be slightly different .
The nucleus appears never to assume the top-shaped form , but swells up into a spherical nucleus containing a well marked reticulum , sometimes with larger aggregations of chromatin at the outer side or round its equator ( Plate 7 , Figs. VII , 1 ; VIII , 1 ) .
In the later stages of these eggs the separation of the innermost group of chromosomes , which sink in to form the egg nucleus , appears to take place considerably before the division of the outer group , and the latter division is apparently often incomplete , so that only two groups of polar chromosomes may be found in the later stages .
It is not difficult to choose series of eggs of individual females ( e.g.y Nos. Ill and VII , Plates 6 and 7 ) in which the differences described are fairly pronounced , but on the other hand eggs of other females show figures * Cf .
Part II of this series , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 83 , Plate 17 , fig. 3 .
Sex-Determination in the , N. lentieularis .
191 which it is not easy to place in either group with complete confidence .
For example , the eggs shown in Series YI , 1-7 ( Plate 7 ) , are intermediate in their early stages between the top-shaped and spherical nuclei , and the later stages , though not very clear , might belong to either type .
Similarly , while the early stages of the series shown in Figs. I , 1 , 2 , are clearly of the top-shaped type , the later figures ( I , 3 and 4 ) might well belong to the second type .
While , therefore , there are some indications of two distinct types of maturation process in the eggs of different females , the results obtained do not make these differences so certain as to justify any confident conclusion that they correspond with the male-producing and female-producing offspring .
Whether the differences noticed in the eggs laid by different females are connected with the fact that the flies to which they give rise are either male-producing or female-producing may be doubted , but in any case the nature of the nuclear divisions during maturation is so remarkable as to need a somewhat fuller description .
After the nucleus has swollen up , whether it be of the " top-shaped " or " spherical " type , its membrane disappears , usually first at the inner pole ( Fig. VIII , 1 ) , and from the nuclear reticulum fine strands are drawn out towards the centre of the egg .
Some figures suggest that these are at first loops , but others ( .
, Figs. VIII , 1 ; IX , 1-6 ) that they are strands of chromatin not connected with each other at their inner ends .
Many figures show that these strands are double at their bases ( IV , 3 ; VII , 4 , 5 , 6 ; IX , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 ) , and when , as not infrequently happens , they appear to arise singly from small masses of chromatin ( III , 4 ; IV , 2 ; VII , 2 ) , it is possible that these masses are formed by coalescence of two threads in consequence of somewhat defective preservation .
In good figures it is usually clear that these strands are about 10 in number , and when only a smaller number is visible it is possibly because some are longer than others , and only the long ones are sufficiently clear of the reticulum to be recognised .
While these strands are being formed at the inner side of the nucleus similar but shorter rods or loops are formed also at the opposite side , towards the edge of the egg , and the two series are for a time connected by a network , on which the chromatin is sometimes aggregated into deeply-stained masses .
The subsequent behaviour is extremely hard to follow , and is possibly different in the two classes of eggs , the existence of which has been suggested above .
What appears to happen is that the reticulum between the inner and outer rods disappears , perhaps by becoming concentrated into small chromatin masses attached to the proximal ends of the strands ( Figs. Ill , 4 ; IV , 4 ) , and the inner group of strands then separates itself from the outer VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; B. R I 192 Dr. L. Doncaster .
Gametogenesis and and sinks for a short distance into the egg .
The two groups so formed may be temporarily connected by strands of chromatin ( Figs. X , 1 and 2 ) .
A system of spindle-fibres can then be seen running inwards from the inner ends of the strands , and also , but less clearly , outwards from these strands towards the outer group ; in at least one case ( Fig. II , 4 ) the inner spindle-fibres can be seen to be 10 in number .
At this stage the strands of the inner group lie as a rule fairly accurately parallel with one another , but show a tendency to become clumped , so that they commonly have the appearance of less than ten moderately thick rods ( Figs. I , 3 ; II , 4 ; III , 5 , 6 ; YI , 7 ) .
The outer strands or rods are often much less regularly arranged , and may appear to cross one another diagonally , or still to be connected by crossthreads ( I , 3 ; VI , 5 , 7 ) .
I have very few examples of this stage in eggs which belong at all certainly to the second ( " spherical nucleus " ) class , and in them the arrangement of the inner group of strands is so much less regular that it suggests a rather different process ( VIII , 2 ; VII , 7 ) , which will be discussed after the eggs with " top-shaped " nuclei have been considered .
In the eggs of the first class ( " top-shaped " nuclei ) , when the inner group of strands has become arranged as a sheaf of rod-shaped chromosomes on a spindle , the outer group may either follow suit and form a similar group of rods , usually , however , less regular ( II , 4 ; III , 5 , 6 ) , or , probably more commonly , a division of the inner , group takes place before the outer group has formed any very regular arrangement ( V , 1 , 2 ) , but in these eggs the division of the outer group takes place quite definitely , though it may lag somewhat behind that of the inner group ( IV , 5 ; I , 4 ) .
Although it is quite clear that a double division takes place , I am quite unable to describe in detail how it is effected , for I have failed to find any eggs ( except , perhaps , that shown in Fig. X , 2 ) in stages between that represented in Figs. II , 4 , and III , 5 , and that shown in I , 4 , IV , 5 , and VI , 1 , 2 .
In the earlier stages the chromosomes consist of fairly thick rods ( presumably ten , though usually aggregated so as to appear fewer ) , lying lengthwise on a spindle .
In the next stage represented these chromosomes have divided into a group of about ten rods , which sink in to form the egg-nucleus , and ten others , which remain as the inner group of polar chromosomes , but the figures give no indication of whether the division is longitudinal or transverse .
The arrangement of the chromosomes on the spindle would suggest a transverse division ; the existence of ten rather long , narrow rods in both the egg-nucleus and inner polar group suggests that the division is longitudinal , and this is confirmed by the longitudinal split which is sometimes visible ( Fig. X , 1 ) , corresponding with the apparently double Sex-Determination in the Gall-Fly , N. lenticularis .
193 nature of the original strands from which the chromosomes were formed .
Without deciding definitely , therefore , it may probably be concluded that the division is longitudinal , and that each of the rods arranged lengthwise on the spindle splits longitudinally , and one half slips over the other and passes to the inner pole , leaving the other nearly stationary .
The form of some of the chromosomes represented in Fig. X , 2 , might correspond with a division of this sort .
That such a division is very unlike what is found in other organisms is obvious , but it appears to be most nearly what the figures observed suggest .
The division of the outer group which follows is perhaps of the same kind , as is indicated by such figures as X , 5 , in which some of the separating chromosomes appear to be attached to one another in such a way that the outer end of the inner chromosome is lying parallel and in contact with the inner end of the outer .
In other cases the figures give the appearance of a sorting out of the chromosomes of the inner group , rather than of a division ( I , 4 ; X , 4 ) , but the fact that after the two groups have separated some chromosomes may remain connected by long chromatin strands* rather indicates a genuine division .
The final result of the division of the outer group of chromosomes in eggs of this class is usually a rather regular-group of about 10 chromosomes arranged in a sheaf near the edge of the egg , and a less regular group at a somewhat deeper level ( Figs. IV , 5 , 6 ; III , 7 ) .
The above description applies to eggs of females whose eggs in their earlier stages have " top-shaped " nuclei , and , my few good figures of eggs of the " spherical nucleus " class make it doubtful whether the divisions are quite similar .
The only really satisfactory figure of the stage immediately preceding the division of the inner group of chromosomes is shown in Fig. VIII , 2 , and it will be seen that in this case the inner group , instead of consisting of a regular sheaf of rod-like chromosomes Figs. II , 4 ; III , 5 ) is made up of a rather irregular assemblage of rods and strands .
It is possible that this appearance is due to the chromosomes being actually in division , and in process of separation from one another , for the number is clearly more than 10 , though the irregular arrangement makes an exact count impossible .
A rather later stage is shown in VII , 7 , in which eight or nine chromosomes are clearly seen sinking in to form the egg-nucleus , while those of the outer half of the inner group have loop-like connections with one another .
In both figures the chromosomes of the outer group show no clear sign of division at this stage , though traces of spindle fibres may be seen running outwards towards the edge of the egg .
Fig. VII , 8 , a , b , * Cf .
Part I , Plate 2 , fig. 32 , ' Eoy .
Soc.- Proe.y B , vol. 82 .
Dr. L. Doncaster .
Gametogenesis and shows the polar chromosomes of an egg of this series after the maturation divisions are completed ; there is a compact mass derived from the outer half of the inner group ( on the right of VII , 8 , a , with three pieces extending into the section 8 , b ) , while the halves of the outer group are intermingled in an irregular mass extending through the two sections .
As in the case of the earlier stages , however , various intermediate conditions occur between Such figures as VII , 8 , and III , 7 , and it is possible that the two kinds of eggs described are rather the extremes of a continuous series than sharply distinct types which might be correlated with a difference in sex-production in the flies to which they give rise .
One other point should be noted .
In several figures ( e/ j. , VI , 7 : VII , 7 ) there is a more or less conspicuous lagging chromosome , which is possibly derived from one of the chromatin strands which may connect the inner and outer groups after the first division ( Figs. X , 1 , 2 ; VI , 5 ) .
I have not been able to find any regularity in its occurrence , but if one chromosome differs from the rest in tending to lag in division , the presence of this chromosome in the inner or outer group might possibly be the differentiating factor which determines whether the egg becomes a male-producing or female-producing individual .
The type of niitotic figure described , which occurs in the maturation division of both the sexual and parthenogenetic eggs of Neuroterus , and which is very similar to that described by Henking* in another Cynipid , Rhodites , is so different from that commonly found in nearly all other organisms that some further discussion of its peculiarities seems needed .
An obvious suggestion is that it is due to defective preservation , and this explanation is supported by the fact that the state of preservation of the eggs seems to differ considerably in eggs fixed together in the same tube .
But on the other hand there are strong reasons for believing that this is not the true , or at least not a complete , explanation .
In the first place quite similar figures are found in eggs fixed with Petrunke witsch 's fluid and Gilson 's acetic alcohol sublimate , both of which , however , are of similar constitution , but are very different from the fixatives ( hot water and Flemming 's fluid ) employed by Henking .
More important reasons for believing that the peculiarities observed are not due to bad fixation are ( 1 ) that quite normal and well-preserved segmentation mitoses occur in father older eggs , and ( 2 ) , the beautiful clearness and regularity of the fine chromatin strands criuld hardly be produced by poor fixation .
The drawings give only an imperfect representation of the fineness and regularity of the actual figures , owing to the difficulty of rendering them accurately in * ' Zeit .
Wiss .
Zool. , 'vol .
54 , p. 147 ( 1892 ) .
Sex-Determination in the Gall-F , N. lenticularis .
195 perspective .
Further , although there are considerable differences in detail , in the rather earlier stages especially there is a uniformity about the figures which makes it difficult to believe that the appearances are due to artifact .
I am inclined , therefore , to believe that the figures are at least to a considerable extent genuine representations of what exists in the living egg , and that the maturation divisions of the Cynipidse exhibit a type of mitosis not hitherto observed in other forms .
Its essence appears to be the drawing out of threads from a reticulum ; the threads , at least at their bases , are double , and the ends of the longitudinal halves diverge and anastomose with the threads of the network .
Gradually the network disappears , apparently becoming absorbed into the drawn out threads , forming an inner and outer group .
These two groups then each divide , but , as was said above , there are no clear indications of how this second division is effected ; it is probable , however , that the division consists in a separation of the longitudinal halves of the originally double threads .
To make this description more intelligible , I give in a text-figure a purely diagrammatic representation of the kind of Diagrams 1-4.\#151 ; Representing the kind of mitotic division suggested by the figures observed in the eggs of Neuroterus .
1 .
Threads becoming drawn out on opposite sides of a reticular nucleus .
2 .
Separation and sinking-in of the inner threads , each of which is longitudinally split .
3 .
Division ( longitudinal ?
) of the inner threads , and formation of split chromosomes from the outer group .
4 .
Completion of the maturation divisions .
The innermost group forms the egg-nucleus , the other three the groups of polar chromosomes .
( In diagrams 2 , 3 , 4 , only half of the actual number of chromosomes is represented ) .
system which the figures suggest , but it will be understood that this representation is imaginary , and is not intended to show $t all accurately the structures as they actually exist .
l yg Dr. L. Doncaster .
Gametogeneds and Summary .
In Neuroterus lenticularisthere are two generations in the year , agamic females appearing in early spring , and sexual females and males in early summer .
Previous work had shown that any individual agamic female has only male or only female offspring , and the object of the present work was to discover the nature of the difference between these two classes of agamic females .
Experiment showed that any individual sexual female has grandchildren exclusively or almost exclusively of one sex .
The galls produced by sexual females were sleeved , each sleeve containing galls derived from one female parent , and in sleeves of galls derived from six females 4235 males and 83 females were bred , while in sleeves of galls from another six females there were 5139 females and 117 males .
About half the sleeves contained no exceptions , and reasons are given for believing that the exceptions were due to eggs of wild flies laid through the meshes of the sleeves .
Two possible cytological causes might account for the fact that some sexual females produce only male-producing offspring , whilst others produce only female-producing .
If each fly pairs only once , the difference might depend on the existence of two kinds of males , or it might arise through differences in the maturation-processes of eggs laid by the two classes of sexual female .
No cytological differences in the spermatogenesis of different males could be detected .
The maturation phenomena of the eggs ( about 300 ) of 15 separate females have been examined , and while they seem to fall into two rather distinct types , the differences are not sufficiently considerable to correlate them with the sex-phenomena with any confidence .
The maturation-processes of the eggs are remarkable , and if , as seems probable , the peculiar figures are not due to methods of preservation , they differ widely from the ordinary type of mitosis .
The first division takes place by the drawing out of threads ( probably double ) on each side of the nucleus ; the reticulum becomes absorbed in these threads , which form two groups of parallel chromosomes on a spindle .
These chromosomes then divide , probably longitudinally , giving rise to the group which forms the egg-nucleus and three groups of polar chromosomes .
[ \#166 ; Postscript , February 19,1916.\#151 ; While the preceding paper was in the press 1 received E. W. Hegner 's paper " Protoplasmic Differentiation in the Oocytes of Certain Hymenoptera."* He describes phenomena in the parasitic Hymenopteran Oopidosuma , and less fully in the Cynipid ( the latter * 'Journ .
of Morphology , ' vol. 26 , p. 495 ( 1915 ) .
Sex-Determination in the , N. lenticularis .
197 1 nearly allied to Neuroterus ) , which may throw important light on the nature of the peculiar mitotic figures found in the maturation divisions of Neuroterus eggs .
In the early oocyte , after a compact synizesis ( contraction phase ) a number of thread-like chromosomes emerge from the spireme , appear to pair end to end , and the pairs then arrange themselves as parallel rods on an asterless mitotic figure .
Each of these double chromosomes shows its double nature by a transverse projection in the middle , so that it has the form of a cross with the horizontal arms very short .
The whole group of chromosomes then condenses till it makes an evenly stained mass which is more or less oval in shape .
This is the last stage seen before the egg is laid , and evidently corresponds with the small evenly-stained nucleus at the edge of the egg found in eggs of Neuroterus preserved immediately after deposition .
It is extremely like Figs. 1 and 2 of Plate 17 in Part II of this series.* Further , F. Martinf finds the same phenomena in , followed by a maturation division apparently of the type described in Neuroterus .
It seems very probable , therefore , that the " top-shaped " nucleus described in Neuroterus is a stage in the disentangling of these chromosomes from the compact condition , and that the separation of the inner group from the outer in the first division corresponds with a separation of the members of the end-to-end pairs from one another , while the second division would be , as suggested above , a longitudinal splitting of single chromosomes .
The peculiarities of the first division may be supposed to arise from the fact that the double chromosomes prepare for division some time before the egg is laid , then become closely pressed together into a compact mass , and after the egg is laid separate from one another before they are completely disentangled from the tight mass into which they have been concentrated .
] .j .n : .
' ! .
w , '\#166 ; . . . .
" ' ' \#166 ; ; \#166 ; ? .
' . . .
' ' \#166 ; .
: / . ? .
... ' f , - .
' \#166 ; 1 \ . . .
.\#166 ; ' : ' V- .
' \#166 ; \#166 ; .
:'\lt ; v ' . .
1 ' !
; .
' .
' * .
' Roy .
Soc. Proe .
, ' B , vol. 83 ( 1911 ) .
t ' Zeit .
Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 110 , p. 419 ( 1914 ) .
Dr. L. Doncaster .
G and DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES .
The figures are all freehand drawings made with a Zeiss 2*5 mm. immersion lens ( N.A. 1-40 ) , and compensating ocular 12 .
They are not all exactly on the same scale .
In many of the figures , especially those representing the earlier stages of the maturation divisions ( e.g. , Series IX ) , the difficulty of interpreting and representing the structures in perspective with complete accuracy has proved insuperable , and the figures must therefore be taken as giving as close a rendering as I am able to do of the appearance presented , rather than as drawings which are accurate in every detail .
In each case the in on t e left of the figure represents the position of the egg-margin .
The Koman numeral represent ( except in Nos. IX and X ) different individual females , so that , for tmrant^ Q ^ tv ' jrePresen^ eight maturation figures from eggs laid by one mixed femaT^ of thLe Fig^i ?
f Si ItH 'f divisi'n from egg8 of 1906 .
X 4 ' i\#187 ; , i j tS 1X ' 1-6 , and X ' 3 and 5\gt ; were preserved in 1907 ; X , 1 , in 1914 or 1915 ' an ' Ailitfci eggs of Series I-VIII were preserved in stained ^ 8ba^ed ^Pe nucleus just before maturation .
In I , 2 , the equator ^r\amp ; nU 6S ' suSgesbng emission of chromatin , are seen round the 1 vine ?
nnl d^v^on \gt ; since in some cases the chromosomes are C^-Uters^eoVdl^^T'h''0^11"68110"1 ' ' 1 and inner polar arm \#171 ; .* The inner grouP has divided into egg-nucleus reconstructed f. c ''uter SrouP has not yet divided .
The figure g II , 1 and 2 r Successive sections .
II , 3-ProphLe^ SnUClei With d'Uble rings of granules .
inner side .
narrow loops or strands becoming drawn out oh the Unusually regular d^ . .
successive sections , with ,1810n"%ure- The inner and outer groups are in outer group ) which is i fv.6 exceP^on of the chromosome marked X in the aide of the inner \#187 ; r 6 Saine section as the inner group .
On the innei II ^m^enoe- 'U^ spindle-fibres can be counted with some tion divi8i08n.riPThe W* ichrom'8omes after the completion of the matura-'uter group and are in ^ ^ that near the edge are the halves of the ''raiR* i|| 'naer group containing 8ec^on 5 the upper on the right hand is the ' " d ropha\amp ; es ; JIT 1 i roru's'mes , and is in the next section .
U{ ^ ' as ^ e typical top-shaped form with equatoria III , 5t aupcrpo8ition and n dlaw^ 'ut on both inner and outer sides .
, d'Ukl\lt ; ' not 4uite everything is shown , next ' ln each case tht\#187 ; \#171 ; ?
' on rather a larger scale than tb *11 , 7.~Compkf U 6r ^rouP in one section , the inner in t 6 1'*td m\#187 ; i_ _ 0,1 '* Saturation d ; * .
'u^tul0#t The two'TT and 8perm'head ( % ) 8Welling ULe -option , ,1 , about 10 ) and h .
' ter SrouPs of polar chromosomes ( tb \#187 ; 1 '"her group are ?
n one 3ection , with ** .
" *4iK- *nd .p , n Presented separately below .
which sre in " b* \#187 ; .* .
' n"'nucl\#171 ; ( roarked s and V ) are both i\#187 ; urst Sex-Determination in the Gall-Fly , N. lenticularis .
Series IV 1 and 2.\#151 ; Early stages seen in face , cut in two sections .
In each the upper figure represents the inner , the lower the outer portion .
In IV , 2 , there are clearly about 10 threads drawn out towards the egg-centre ; in the lower figure the dark spots are the cut ends which are continuous with the threads in the upper figure .
IV 3.\#151 ; Inner portion of a similar figure , showing that the threads , at least near their bases , are double .
( IV , 1 , 2 , 3 , should be compared with VII , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 .
) IV , 4.\#151 ; Two figures from successive sections of a rather later stage in side view , showing chromatin threads drawn out on both inner and outer side .
The staining of this slide ( IV , 4 ) is unsatisfactory , and attempts to improve it have proved unsuccessful .
The figures are therefore to be taken as sketches .
IV , 5.\#151 ; Telophase of maturation division .
The egg- and sperm-nuclei are in one section , but are represented nearer together than they actually are ; thetwo inner polar groups and most of the outer are in the next section but .
one .
Some of the outermost polar chromosomes are hidden by the egg-membrane .
IV , 6\#151 ; Polar chromosomes after the completion of the maturation divisions from three successive sections .
Those of the inner group are clumped .
ERies V , 1 and 2 .
Two rather similar stages , showing complete separation of egg-nucleus chromosomes from inner polar group before the outer group has divided .
In V , 1 , the figure is reconstructed from two , in V , 2 , from three , successive sections , and the chromosomes are seen nearly in face .
The later eggs of this series show three groups of polar chromosomes , indicating that Series VI ^ 'Uter \amp ; rouP divides .
\gt ; 1 ) 2,3 .
Three prophases somewhat intermediate between the " top-shaped n and " spherical " types .
' ^ kater stage showing threads , double at their bases , drawn out towards egg centre and shorter loops towards the outside .
The lower figure presents ends of threads seen in the next section ; the upper figure is VI 5Tj SI)read f'r the sake of Perspective .
' not w natber ^a^er s^ages : VI , 5 , is cut in two sections ; VI , 6 , is probably Vi 7__t\ Preserved , the inner and outer groups are in successive sections .
Series VIT i o i'U diyision-spindle , with a lagging chromosome in the outer group .
Tli , 5 " Udeus before " ataratkm , inn Til Sec^ons a later stage in face .
The upper figure represents the : endt^ t *0wer outer , portion ; in the latter , the dark spots are the cut .
Vfr , 3__rea\lt ; ^f which appear in the upper figure .
inwa ri ^Ue V*ew slightly later stage , showing double threads drawn .
Vl^ 4__gr .
s^0Wards egg-centre .
cut in two sections in face .
The upper figure is , the : intn liln ^ dark dots in the lower are the cut ends of threads which , pass , TH , ^SbeUpper- bases ^ureJ showing double nature of the threads towards their chromo 6 ^ double threads forming an irregular outer ring are probably are Ha ^les \gt ; the three smaller pairs inside the ring are much fainter , and V\#171 ; , e !
.OK,8 lySpindkfibl'^ vi1 ' View of eimilar s'aSa- .
chrom0 818 111 S^e view\gt ; showing complete separation of the egg-nucleus-SOmes fr 'm the inner polar group , while the outer group , shows- .
' 200 Gametogenesis and Sex-Determination the Gall-Fly .
little trace of division .
The innermost group is in one section , the middle group and most of the outer group in the next .
The chromosomes of the outermost group not in this section are represented below .
VII , 8.\#151 ; Polar chromosomes after maturation is completed , in two successive sections .
There is a compact inner group of about 10 , and an outer group which contains approximately 20 chromosomes .
Series VIII , 1.\#151 ; " Spherical " type of nucleus with early stage of threads being drawn out towards egg-centre .
VIII , 2.\#151 ; Double maturation division .
There appear to be more than 10 chromosomes in the inner group , and they seem to be in process of sorting out rather than of division .
The inner group is in one section ; the chromosomes of the outer group marked x in the next , and the rest of the outer group in the next to these .
Series IX , 1-6.\#151 ; Six figures of early stages from eggs of various females , preserved with Petrunkewitsch 's solution in 1907 , and showing strands or loops of chromatin being drawn out towards both the egg-centre and egg-margin \gt ; from a nuclear reticulum .
In IX , 6 , the figure is seen obliquely , and is cut in two sections ; the upper portion is the outer .
Owing to the difficulty of interpreting and rendering structures seen in perspective , the details of the reticulum as represented are not rigidly accurate , nor is the whole thickness of the nucleus shown in every case .
Series X.\#151 ; Five figures of eggs of various females , later than those shown in Series IX .
X , 1.\#151 ; Egg preserved in 1906 ( Petrunkewitsch 's fluid ) , showing chromatin strands connecting the inner and outer groups .
Eight chromosomes , most of them clearly split longitudinally , are visible in the inner group ; it is possible that the two long strands represent lagging chromosomes .
X , 2.\#151 ; Egg preserved in 1915 ( Gilson 's acetic alcohol sublimate ) .
The chromosomes below those of the inner group on the spindle are in the next section to the remainder .
The thick , deeply stained chromosomes of the inner group are probably each two in contact ; it is not certain whether the thin faint lines between them are single chromosomes or spindle-fibres .
X , 3-5.\#151 ; Three stages after the division of the inner group is complete , showing division of the outer group .
X , 3 and 5 , preserved in 1907 ; X , 4 , in 1914 .
In X , 4 , the outer group and all the chromosomes of the inner , except that marked x , are in one section ; the chromosomes of the egg-nucleus ( marked 9 ) are two sections removed .
if.- ' joncobster .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B , vol. 89. .
Plate 6 .
Doncaster .
Roy .
Soc. ProcB , vol. 89 , Plate 7 .

