On Super-acid and Sub-acid Salts .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read January 28 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 96 .
] The author having some time since observed various instances of super-acid salts , in which he found that the quantity of acid was exactly double of what would be necessary merely to saturate the alkali present , had intended to have pursued the inquiry , but was prevented by the publication of Mr. Dalton 's theory of chemical combination , as explained by Dr. Thomson .
However , since it appeared that Mr. Dalton 's theory was originally founded on the analysis of gases , which is attended with too many difficulties to be repeated by every one who may be desirous of verifying the law of simple multiples by experiment , the author thought it might be desirable to select from his observations certain experiments extremely easy to be repeated , each of which exhibits in itself the most direct and simple proof of the law under consideration .
The subcarbonates of potash and of soda are named as instances of salts containing exactly half the acid necessary to form their fully-saturated carbonates ; and the proof is obtained by taking two quantities of either of these alkalies fully carbonated .
One quantity being taken exactly double of the other , is exposed to a red heat , and is thereby reduced to a semi-carbonate ; for it now yields the same measure of gas that is given out by the unburnt half quantity .
Super-sulphate of potash is adduced as an instance of a salt containing an exact double share of acid .
The proof consists in taking two equal quantities of potash , to one of which is added any large quantity of sulphuric acid , and the mixture is exposed to a red heat , by which a part of the redundant acid is expelled ; but such an excess of acid remains as is neutralized by the second equal portion of alkali reserved for that purpose .
Super-oxalate of potash is also proved to be an exact binoxalate .
Two equal quantities are taken of salt of sorrel ; one is exposed to a red heat , to destroy the whole of its acid , after which the alkali that remains is just sufficient to neutralize the redundant acid of the other portion .
In addition to the preceding compounds selected as distinct examples of semi-acid and bin-acid salts , the author has observed one remarkable instance of a more extended and general prevalence of the same law .
For when the circumstances are such as to admit the union of a further quantity of oxalic acid with potash , the quantity is again doubled ; so that the potash present is sufficient to saturate only one part in four of the acid contained in any quantity of the salt ; and , consequently , the three redundant parts of acid require for their neutralization the alkali of three equal quantities of this quadroxalate , which may be obtained by burning , as proof that the proportion has been rightly ascertained .
The last experiment is designed to determine whether potash would also unite with tlree quantities of oxalic acid ; but it was found , that when two parts of potash are in solution with six equivalent quantities of oxalic acid , they do not crystallize together in this proportion ; but one part of the potash becomes a true binoxalate by union with two parts out of the six of oxalic acid taken ; and the other part of potash is found united with the remaining four parts of acid .
The author expresses an opinion that we shall not be able to explain satisfactorily , why this acid refuses to unite in the proportion of 3 to 1 , till we can attain a just conception of the geometrical arrangement of the elementary particles in all the three dimensions of solid extension .
It being supposed , for instance , that the particles are spherical ( which is the simplest hypothesis ) , if they unite 1 to 1 , there is but one mode of union .
If 2 particles are united to 1 , the 2 particles will arrange themselves at opposite poles of that to which they are united .
If there be 3 particles , the only regular position in which they could remain is in the form of a triangle in a great circle surrounding the single spherule ; but for want of similar matter at the poles of this circle , the equilibrium would not be stable .
But again , if there be 4 to 1 , a stable equilibrium would occur , when they assume the form of a regular tetrahedron , surrounding the single particle .
But as the author does not place much reliance on this explanation , since such a geometrical arrangement of the primary elements is altogether conjectural , he is desirous that it should not be confounded with the results of the facts above related , which are distinct and satisfactory with respect to the existence of the law of simple multiples .

