Observations respecting the natural production of Saltpetre on the walls of subterraneous and other Buildings .
By John Kidd , M.D. Professor of Chemistry at Oxford .
Communicated by William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read June 16,1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 508 .
] The intention of the present paper is to state the result of a series of observations on the connection of production of nitre with the state of the atmosphere ; and the account begins with a description of the situation of the laboratory of the Ashmolean Museum , where these observations were principally made ; the pavement being nine feet below the level of the street in which the museum stands , and seventeen below the highest part of its ceiling , which is arched , and , as well as the side walls , consists of a calcareous freestone .
The saline efflorescence takes place principally on three sides that are surrounded by high ground , and but little on the fourth side , where the ground without is on a level with the pavement .
It is observed , that even in the midst of those parts that abound most in nitre , there are certain places which always produce much less than others ; and even insulated patches , which are always and entirely free from any appearance of efflorescence , showing that these gradations depend on some difference in the texture or composition of the stone .
It is also remarked , that such differences are often not by gradual transitions , but occur abruptly at the passage of a line , on one side of which there appears an abundant crop , and on the other never the slightest efflorescence ; but this does not depend on the joints of the masonry , but takes place indifferently on the surface of the stones composing the wall , and of the mortar by which they are cemented .
With regard to the influence of different states of the atmosphere on the production of nitre , Dr. Kidd observes , that it is most abundant in clear frosty weather , and that in a moist state of the atmosphere the formation either does not take place , or goes on very slowly .
Sometimes also , that which has already formed disappears , as if the moisture occasioned it to be re-absorbed into the substance of the wall : but the author was not able to detect it in a portion of the stone taken from near the surface , and lixiviated for that purpose ; and he also observes , that it occasionally disappears in dry frosty weather , when no absorption could be supposed to take place .
Wishing to ascertain whether the presence of atmospherical air was necessary to the production , the author coated a productive part of the wall with a plate of glass , well cemented round on all sides ; and it appeared evident that the whole quantity formed under these circumstances , was nearly equal to that which usually formed on the same surface when exposed to the free action of the atmosphere .
The author concludes this paper with an analysis of the stone of which the laboratory is built , showing that it contains 96 per cent. of carbonate of lime , the rest being sand , oxide of iron , ochry clay , with a trace of animal matter , which is conceived to be from the shells contained in the stone .
He also gives the result of his experiments on the nitre collected in this situation , which shows that the quantity of calcareous salt contained in it does not exceed --th part , instead of being a principal constituent , as authors have asserted .

