A paper was also read , entitled , " A Description of a Hydropneumatic Baroscope .
" By J. T. Cooper , Esq. , Lecturer on Che* mistry .
The liability of the ordinary mercurial barometer to derangement and to fracture , led the author to the construction of an instrument for measuring atmospheric pressure that should be exempt from these objections .
It consists of a float , formed by a brass tube , having the shape of the frustum of an inverted cone , nine inches long , two inches in diameter above , and one inch below , and its content being about fourteen cubic inches .
From the centre of the upper and wider end , which is closed , a brass wire proceeds , surmounted by a cup , for the purpose of holding such weights as are necessary for bringing the float , when immersed in water , to the same constant level .
The lower and smaller end of the tube is closed by a brass plug , sufficiently heavy to sink the instrument to the proper depth , and maintain its position , and having a small perfora ?
tion in its centre .
This float is enclosed in a case , containing the water in which it is to be immersed , and which is to be raised to a constant given temperature by a spirit lamp burning beneath it .
The float being first filled with water , a given portion of this water is poured out into a measure of known capacity , and is consequently replaced by an equal volume of air , the dilatations or contractions of which will , when the temperature is constant , be dependent only on the external pressure of the atmosphere ; and the latter will , therefore , be indicated by the weights requisite to be placed in the cup of the float , in order to maintain it at the same level in the fluid , on the principle of the hydrometer .
The author gives a minute description of all the parts of the apparatus , of the method of using it , and of the adjustments and calculations required for determining by its means the difference of level of two stations .
Mr. Darwin 's paper , entitled , " On the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy , and other parts of Lochaber , &amp; c , " was resumed , but not concluded .

