A paper was also read , entitled , " An experimental inquiry into the influence of nitrogen in promoting vegetable decomposition , and the connexion of this process with the growth of plants .
" By Robert Rigg , Esq. Communicated by the Rev. J. B. Read , A.M. , F.R.S. The author considers it as a general fact , to which there are very few if any exceptions , that vegetable bodies in the state in which they are produced in nature , undergo spontaneous decomposition when kept under circumstances favouring such an action ; and that , from the decomposition of each , compound products peculiar to that substance result .
A variety of experiments are detailed and tabulated ; the first series of which contains those made on solutions of compounds , such as sugar , honey and extract of malt , showing that in each the amount of spontaneous decomposition is in proportion to the quantity of nitrogen it contains .
This law is found to ex ?
tend to those parts of plants which are not in solution in water , but which remain in their natural state of elaboration , only having their texture broken down .
The author is led to infer from his experiments that the chemical action to which any vegetable matter is naturally disposed , may , to a certain extent , be changed into some other , differing both in its kind and in its products ; and that in order to effect such a change nothing more is required than to excite in other vegetable matter mixed with the former , some action which shall preponderate over the rest , so that the whole mass may obey this new and predominant influence .
The vapour which is disengaged during the rapid decomposition of vegetable matter he finds to be highly noxious ; and thence draws the inference that the Author of the universe has wisely ordained , that , when young plants , containing large quantities of nitrogen , are by any means checked in their growth , they shall be consumed by certain insects ; which insects may be conceived to form one of the links of that harmonious chain which binds together all the parts of the universe .
The relation between the decomposition of vegetable matter and the growth of plants is apparent from the similarity of the influence of nitrogen on both these processes : this double function which nitrogen performs in favouring chemical decomposition by the roots of plants at the same time that it assimilates the matter thus formed in their other parts , is regarded by the author as another link in the same chain .
In support of this view , he adduces the different chemical constitutions of the roots of the same plants when very young , and when fully grown .
He finds that when plants have to perform the important offices of providing nourishment for the rapid growth of their young and tender shoots , they contain a quantity of nitro ?
gen two or three times greater than that which they possess when fully grown ; and he concludes by showing that , in accordance with these views , the seeds , roots and plants when placed in highly decomposing or decomposed matter , cease to grow , and under these circumstances , their germinating or vegetating power being superseded by the chemical action established in the matter which surrounds them , the whole becomes one mass of contaminated and infectious matter .

