II .
" The Caudal Heart of the Eel a Lymphatic Heart.-Effect of the force with which the lymph-stream is propelled therefrom on the flow of blood in the Vein into which the heart opens .
-Explanation of the appearance of blood propelled in successive drops , as if from the heart , along the Caudal Vein.-Influence which the force of the lymph-stream from the heart exerts in accelerating and promoting the flow of blood in the Caudal Vein .
" By THOMAS W JARTON JONES , F.R.S. , Professor of Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery in University Colcege , London , Ophthalmic Surgeon to the Hospital , &amp;c. Received November 26 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) To explain the true nature of the phenomenon of drops of blood propelled in rapid succession , as if from the caudal heart , along the caudal vein , to prove thereby that the caudal heart belongs , not to the bloodvascular system , but to the lymphatic system , and to inquire into the influence which the force of the lymph-stream from the caudal heart exerts in accelerating and promoting the flow of blood in the caudal vein , constitute the object of this paper .
The great caudal vein of the eel is formed by the junction of two trunks , a larger and a smaller .
It is into the smaller trunk , near its junction with the larger , that the caudal heart opens .
At the opening , there is a valve which prevents regurgitation of the lymph back from the vein into the heart .
When by the contraction of the heart the lymph is propelled into the vein , the flow of blood from that vessel into the great caudal trunk is interrupted by the force of the lymph-stream .
From the place where the heart opens into the vein to the junction of the latter with the caudal trunk , colourless lymph thus replaces red blood ; whilst in the caudal trunk itself , the lymph , still under the influence of the heart 's force , so far displaces the blood as to flow in a colourless stream on one side of the vessel for some distance , distinct from and unmingled with the bloodstream from the lower part of the vein and its lateral branches .
During the diastole of the heart , the stream of lymph into the vein intermitting , the flow of blood from that vessel into the great trunk of the caudal vein again takes place .
No sooner , however , has a small quantity of blood entered than , systole of the heart ensuing , the stream of lymph thereby propelled into the vein , drives the small quantity of blood before it into the great caudal venous trunk , whilst it at the same time arrests , as before , the flow of blood into the great caudal vein from its tributary vessel .
Through the medium of the stream of lymph propelled into the great caudal vein at each stroke of the caudal heart , an impetus is communicated to the column of blood in that vessel , which we can see has the effect of accelerating and promoting its onward flow to the blood-heart of the animal .
We thus see that the caudal heart of the eel is a lymphatic heart , its function being to receive lymph on the one hand , and to propel it into the great vein of the tail on the other , but that , besides this function , it at the same time performs the secondary one of accelerating and promoting the flow of the blood in the great caudal vein in its course back to the blood-heart .
So far as the author has been able to ascertain , no one has hitherto given a correct explanation of the phenomenon of small drops of blood propelled in rapid succession , as if from the caudal heart , along the caudcal vein .
Without first showing that these small drops of red blood are not propelled from the caudal heart , and without showing that it is colourless lymph alone which is really propelled therefron , no one could be warranted in dissenting from Dr. Marshall Hall , the discoverer of the caudal heart , in his opinion as to the nature of the organ , viz. that it is an auxiliary bloodheart , or in pronouncing it , how correctly soever , to be a lymphatic heart .

