Electromotive Properties of Electrical Organ of Malapterurus .
37 The latter line is seen only in the absence of manganese , as it very nearly coincides with one of the group of strong manganese lines ; it is , therefore , obscured in the spectra of the Bessemer flame and of the crude iron .
The oxide of gallium was separated as far as possible from all other substances and heated in the oxy-hydrogen flame and the characteristic spectrum was then photographed from this oxide .
3 .
Evidence from the Boasted Ore , and substances separated therefrom .
The roasted Cleveland ore was heated alone for thirty-five minutes in the oxy-hydrogen flame , it gave only a very faint indication of one line in the spectrum of gallium .
The solution extracted from the ore by digesting it with warm dilute hydrochloric acid of double normal strength , when boiled with ammonium acetate gave a pi'ecipi-tate , the spectrum of which contained the line 4171*6 fairly strong .
The silicious residue insoluble in strong hydrochloric acid , when decomposed by fusion with caustic potash and subsequent boiling with water , after concentration of the solution so as to retain the gallium , gave a spectrum containing both lines , 4171*6 and 4032*7 .
AH other elements had been removed .
The wave-lengths given are on Rowland 's scale .
The lines were measured on many plates and also repeatedly on the same plate , the results being the same in each case .
" The Electromotive Properties of the Electrical Organ of Malapterurus electricus .
" By FRANCIS GoTCH , M.A. ( Qxon .
) , F.R.S. , and G. J. Burch , M.A. ( Oxon .
) .
Received April 2 , \#151 ; Read May 7 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments were made upon six specimens of Malapterurus electricus , 12 to 15 cm .
in length , brought from the River Senegal by Mr. A. Ridyard ( ss .
" Niger " ) , and generously placed at the disposal of the authors by the Liverpool Corporation Museum Committee , to whom and to Ur .
Forbes , the Director of the Museum , the authors desire to express their thanks .
Three of the specimens were killed , in order to carry out experiments upon the isolated organ .
The instrumental methods employed by the authors for determining for the first time the characters and time relations of the activity of the organ response were chiefly the following :\#151 ; ( a. ) The record of the frog nerve muscle galvanoscope .
( b. ) The galvanometer connected with a suitable rheotome .
Messrs. F. Gotch and G. J. Burch .
( c. ) The capillary electrometer , a large number ( about 250 ) photographic records being taken of the movements of the meniscus .
Facsimile reproductions of typical records are given in the fuller communication .
The electrometer was used either shunted by a resistance of from 80 to 100 ohms , or in connection with the outer plates of a special condenser , the inner plates of which were connected with the fish or its electrical organ .
The organ responded to mechanical or electrical excitation of its nerves after removal from the fish , the response being unaffected by 1 per cent , curare , or 1 per cent , atropine solution .
No response could be evoked by such chemical agents as sodium chloride , glycerine , or weak acid , when applied either to the organ or its efferent nerve .
The conclusions drawn by the authors from the experiments on the isolated organ and on the entire uninjured fish may be summarised as follows :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The isolated organ responds to electrical excitation of its nerves by monophasic electromotive changes , indicated by electrical currents which traverse the tissue from the head to the tail end ; this response commences from 00035 " at 30 ' C. to 0'009 " at 5 ' 0 .
after excitation , the period of delay for any given temperature being tolerably constant .
( 2 ) The response occasionally consists of a single such monophasic electromotive change ( shock ) developed with great suddenness , and subsiding completely in from O002 " to 0-005 " , according to the temperature ; in the vast majority of cases the response is multiple , and consists of a series of such changes ( shocks ) recurring at perfectly regular intervals , from two to thirty times ( peripheral organ rhythm ) ; the interval between the successive changes varies from 0004 " at 30 ' C. to O01 " at 5 ' 0 .
, but is perfectly uniform at any given temperature throughout the series .
( 3 ) Such a single or multiple response ( in the great majority of cases the latter ) can also be evoked by the direct passage of an induced current through the organ and its contained nerves , in either direction heterodromous ( i.e. , opposite in direction to the current of the response ) or homodromous .
( 4 ) The time relations of the response are almost identical whether this is evoked by nerve-trunk ( indirect ) stimulation , or by the passage of the heterodromous induced current .
( 5 ) There is no evidence that the electrical plate substance can be excited by the induced current apart from its nerves , i.e. , it does not possess independent excitability .
( 6 ) The organ and its contained nerves respond far more easily to the heterodromous than to the homodromous induced current , and the period of delay in the case of the latter response is appreciably lengthened .
Electromotive Properties of Electrical Organ of Malapterurus .
39 ( 7 ) The peripheral organ rhythm ( multiple response ) varies from about 100 per second at 5 ' C. to about 280 per second at 35 ' C. ( 8 ) One causative factor in the production of the peripheral rhythm is the susceptibility of the excitable tissue to respond to the current set up by its own activity ( self excitation ) .
( 9 ) In the uninjured fish mechanical or electrical excitation of the surface of the skin beyond the limits of the organ evokes a reflex response with a long delay ( 0*03 " to 0*3 " ) ; this reflex response consists of groups of shocks , each group showing the peripheral organ rhythm , but separated from its neighbour by a considerable interval of time ( reflex or central rhythm ) .
, ( 10 ) In the uninjured fish electrical excitation of the skin over the organ evokes a response which may consist of a direct peripheral organ effect followed by such a reflex effect .
( 11 ) The minimal total reflex delay at 20 ' C. is 0-023 " , giving a central excitatory time of about 0-01 " .
( 12 ) The reflex or central rhythm in our specimens showed a maximum rate of 12 per second and an average rate of from 3 to 4 per second .
( 13 ) The number of separate groups in the reflex response recurring at the intervals mentioned in the preceding paragraph was in our fish limited to from 2 to 5 .
( 14 ) The E.M.F. of each single change in the organ response depends upon the number of effective plates with their nerves , and in 10 cm .
of excited organ cannot possibly be less than 75 volts , and is probably much nearer 150 volts .
As in our specimens the number of plates in series in 1 cm .
of organ was 180 , this gives a minimal possible E.M.F. of 0'04 volt , and a probable E.M.l. of 0'07 volt for each plate .
The authors further conclude that , since each lateral half of the organ is innervated by the axis cylinder branches of one efferent nerve cell , and has no independent excitability , the specific characters of the reflex response of the organ express far more closely than those of muscle the changes in central nerve activity , and are presumably those of the activity of a single efferent nerve cell .
The single efferent nerve cell , the activity of which is thus for the first time ascertained , shows\#151 ; ( a. ) A minimum period of delay of 0'008 " to 0'01 " .
( 5 .
) A maximum rate of discharge of 12 per second .
( c. ) An average rate of discharge of 3 to 4 per second .
( d.)A susceptibility to fatigue showing itself in the discharge failing after it had recurred from two to five times at the above rates .

