New Palaeozoic Lycopod with a Seed-like Structure .
473 4 .
Certain phenomena of precipitin reactions , including precipitation , inactivation , inhibition , and solution of precipitates , appear to be incompatible with the commonly accepted statement of Ehrlich 's theory of the substances concerned in precipitin interactions .
Miadesmia membranacea , Bertrand ; a New Palaeozoic Lycopod with a Seed-like Structure .
By M. Benson , D.Sc .
, F.L.S. ( Communicated by Dr. D. H. Scott , F.R.S. Received April 26 , \#151 ; Read June 13 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) The vegetative organs of this interesting new type were discovered by Bertrand in 1894 .
He found them in sections of a calcite nodule from the Gannister beds of Hough Hill , England .
A large quantity of new material has become available , and now not only are more details known as to the vegetative organs , but a fairly complete knowledge of the reproductive organs is possible .
Miadesmia was exceedingly minute , its stem slender and without any trace of skeletal tissue .
It is the first Palaeozoic Lycopod of herbaceous character known structurally .
The megasporophylls which were identified by Dr. D. H. Scott , F.R.S. , in 1901 , show a more advanced type of seed habit than has hitherto been met with in Cryptogams .
The megasporange gives rise to but one thin-walled spore , which in development and structure resembles an embryo sac and germinates in situ .
An integument surrounds the sporange , leaving but a small orifice as micropyle .
This is surrounded by numerous long processes of the integument , which formed a collecting and incubating apparatus for the microspores .
There is no trace of an envelope about the microsporange : The carpellary leaf was shed at maturity , and resembles a winged seed .
Disregarding the structural modifications of the megasporophyll , the nearest affinity of Miadesmia among forms so far known seems to be with the non-specialised species of Selaginella , such as Selaginella selaginoides , but the foliage leaves show the archaic leaf-base comparable with that of Lepidodendreae .

