372 Mr. J. N. Lockyer 's Spectroscopic .\#151 ; No. II .
[ June 11 , Only the longest " fundamental " line was absorbed .
The line was thiclcer than the D line in the solar spectrum , in which spectrum all the short lines are reversed .
2 .
As it was difficult largely to increase either the temperature or the density of the sodium-vapour , I have made another series of experiments with iodine-vapour .
I have already pointed out the differences indicated by the spectroscope between the quality of the vibrations of the " atom " of a metal and of the " subatom " of a metalloid ( by which tepn I define that mass of matter which gives us a spectrum of channelled spaces , and builds up the continuous spectrum in its own way ) .
Thus , in iodine , the short lines , brought about by increase of density in an atomic spectrum , are represented by the addition of a system of well-defined " beats " and broad bands of continuous absorption to the simplest spectrum , which is one exquisitely rhythmical , the intervals increasing from the blue to the red , and in which the beats are scarcely noticeable .
On increasing the density of a very small thickness by a gentle heating , the beats and bands are introduced , and , as the density is still further increased , the absorption becomes continuous throughout the whole of the visible spectrum .
The absorption of a thickness of 5 feet 6 inches of iodine-vapour at a temperature of 59 ' F. has given me no indication of bands , while the beats were so faint that they were scarcely visible .
VI .
" Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. II .
On the Evidence of Variation in Molecular Structure .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 26 , 1874 .
1 .
In an accompanying note I have shown that when different degrees of dissociating power are employed the spectral effects are different .
2 .
In the present note I propose to give a preliminary account of some researches which have led me to the conclusion that , starting with a mass of elemental matter , such mass of matter is continually broken up as the temperature ( including in this term the action of electricity ) is raised .
3 .
The evidence upon which I rely is furnished by the spectroscope in the region of the visible spectrum .
4 .
To begin by the extreme cases , all solids give us continuous spectra ; all vapours produced by the high-tension spark give us line-spectra .
5 .
Now the continuous spectrum may be , and as a matter of fact is , observed in the case of chemical compounds , whereas all compounds known as such are resolved by the high-tension spark into their constituent elements .
We have a right , therefore , to assume that an element in the solid state is a more complex mass than the element in a state of vapour , as its spectrum is the same as that of a mass which is known to be more complex .
1874 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer 's Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. II .
373 6 .
The spectroscope supplies us with intermediate stages between these extremes .
( a ) The spectra vary as we pass from the induced current with the jar to the spark without the jar , to the voltaic arc , or to the highest temperature produced by combustion .
The change is always in the same direction ; and here , again , the spectrum we obtain from elements in a state of vapour ( a spectrum characterized by spaces and bands ) is similar to that we obtain from vapours of which the compound nature is unquestioned .
( fi ) At high temperatures , produced by combustion , the vapours of some elements ( which give us neither line- nor channelled space-spectra at those temperatures , although we undoubtedly get line-spectra when electricity is employed , as stated in 4 ) give us a continuous spectrum at the more refrangible end , the less refrangible end being unaffected .
( y ) At ordinary temperatures , in some cases , as in selenium , the more refrangible end is absorbed ; in others the continuous spectrum in the blue is accompanied by a continuous spectrum in the red .
On the application of heat , the spectrum in the red disappears , that in the blue remains ; and further , as Faraday has shown in his researches on gold-leaf , the masses which absorb in the blue may be isolated from those which absorb in the red .
It is well known that many substances known to be compounds in solution give us absorption in the blue or blue and red ; and , also , that the addition of a substance known to be compound ( such as water ) to substances known to be compound which absorb the blue , superadds an absorption in the red .
7 .
In those cases which do not conform to what has been stated the limited range of the visible spectrum must be borne in mind .
Thus I have little doubt that the simple gases , at the ordinary conditions of temperature and pressure , have an absorption in the ultra-violet , and that highly compound vapours are often colourless because their absorption is beyond the red , with or without an absorption in the ultra-violet .
Glass is a good case in point ; others will certainly suggest themselves as opposed to the opacity of the metals .
8 .
If we assume , in accordance with what has been stated , that the various spectra to which I have referred are really due to diffei'ent molecular aggregations , we shall have the following series , going from the more simple to the more complex :\#151 ; First stage of complexity j Line_spectrum\lt ; of molecule ... ... ... ..J Second stage Third stage Channelled space-spectrum .
' Continuous absorption at the blue end not reaching to the less refrangible end .
( This absorption may .
break up into channelled spaces .
) 374 Mr. J. N. Lockyer 's Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. III .
[ June 11 , ' Continuous absorption at the red end not reaching to the more refrangible end .
( This absorption may v break up into channelled spaces .
) Unique continuous absorption .
9 .
I shall content myself in the present note by giving one or two instances of the passage of spectra from one stage to another , beginning at the fifth stage .
From 5 to 4 .
1 .
The absorption of the vapours of K in the red-hot tube , described in another note , is at first continuous .
As the action of the heat is continued , this continuous spectrum breaks in the middle ; one part of it retreats to the blue , the other to the red .
From 4 to 3 .
1 .
Faraday 's researches on gold-leaf best illustrate this ; but I hold that my explanation of them by masses of two degrees of complexity only is sufficient without his conclusion ( ' Researches in Chemistry , ' p. 417 ) , that they exist " of intermediate sizes or proportions .
" From 3 to 2 .
1 .
Sulphur-vapour first gives a continuous spectrum at the blue end ; on heating , this breaks up into a channelled space-spectrum .
2 .
The new spectra of K and Na ( more particularly referred to in the third note ) make their appearance after the continuous absorption in the blue and red vanishes .
From 2 to 1 .
1 .
In many metalloids the spectra , without the jar , are channelled ; on throwing the jar into the circuit the line-spectrum is produced , while the cooler exterior vapour gives a channelled absorption-spectrum .
2 .
The new spectra of K and Na change into the line-spectrum ( with thick lines which thin subsequently ) as the heat is continued .
Fourth stage Fifth stage VII .
uSpectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. III .
On the Molecular Structure of Vapours in connexion with their Densities .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 26 , 1874 .
1 .
I have recently attempted to bring the spectroscope to bear upon the question whether vapours of elements below the highest temperatures are truly homogeneous , and whether the vapours of different chemical elements , at any one temperature , are all in a similar molecular condition .
In the present note , I beg to lay before the Royal Society the preliminary results of my researches .

