448 Prof. A. Wurtz .
[ Mar. 30 , II .
" Description of the Fossil Tusk of an extinct Proboscidian Mammal ( Notelephas australis , Ow .
) , from Queensland , Australia .
" By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received March 21 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) The author , after referring to the notice of the finding of a molar tooth of a mastodon , in Australia , by Count Strzelecki , in his " Physical Description of New South Wales , " p. 312 , proceeds to the details of the first evidence of a proboscidian mammal which has reached him from that continent since the date ( 1845 ) of the Count 's work .
This evidence consists of portions of a tusk indicative of an elephantine animal , somewhat less than the existing ones of Asia and Africa .
The evidences of the ivory nature of the tusk are given ' in detail , including the minute characters of that variety of dentine .
Figures of the fossil and of the microscopical sections accompany the paper .
The specimen was discovered by Mr. Fred .
N. Isaac , in a " drift-deposit of a ravine in a district of Darling Downs , sixty miles to the eastward of Moreton Bay , Queensland , Australia .
" III .
" Action of Ethylene Chlorhydrin upon the Bases of the Pyridine Series and on Quinoline .
" By Professor Adolph Wuetz , For .
Mem. R.S. Received March 17 , 1882 .
According to the constitution which is generally attributed to the bases of the pyridine series , they must be considered as tertiary bases , their nitrogen being united to the carbon by three atomicities .
The action which alcoholic iodides exert upon these bases , as shown by Hofmann , confirms this idea , which is equally applicable to quinoline .
I thought that the reaction of glycol chlorhydrin and similar compounds upon the pyridine bases and upon quinoline should produce oxygenated quaternary bases .
It is known , in fact , that such a base , neurine , results from the action of ethylene chlorhydrin upon trimethylamine .
The beautiful results which Ladenburg obtained recently by the reaction of chlorhydrin upon secondary bases are well known .
He is still continuing these researches to the great profit of science .
I myself , entering again on a line of researches which I had formally traced , will , describe the results obtained by investigations undertaken in the direction indicated , with the pyridine bases and quinoline .
I had two specimens .
of collidine at my disposal , presenting the

