On the Independence of the analytical and geometricalMethods of InO vestigation ; and on the Advantages to be derived from their Separation .
By Robert Woodhouse , A.M. Fellow of Caius College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Joseph Planta , Esq. Sec. R.S. Read January 14 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 85 .
] The author , in the prefatory part of this paper , points out the difference between the two methods of solving problems , the one using lines and diagrams as the signs of quantity , and making an individual to represent a genus ; and the other employing generic terms and signs , which bear no resemblance to the things signified : and insists that , in order to make the process of deduction.distinct , exact , and luminous , only one of the two methods ought to be adhered to .
This , he says , has not been sufficiently attended to , expressions and formulas of the two methods having often been blended together , the consequence of which has been much ambiguity and paradox ; since the true method of combining algebraical formulas cannot be well understood , unless we duly attend to their true analytical source and combination .
To show that the language of algebra need not be infected with the mode of expression adopted by geometricians , and that it is of itself an adequate instrument of argumentation , is the principal object of Mr. Woodhouse 's paper .
And he declares that he has entered on this inquiry , not merely for the sake of gratifying speculative curiosity , being firmly of opinion that the process of calculation will be much more direct , sure , and expeditious , if it be duly freed from all foreign encumbrances .
In order to illustrate and confirm this opinion , he has selected a few cases from those expressions and formulas which are supposed to require for their solution the aid of geometrical theorems , and of the properties of curves .
From purely analytical principles he has given demonstrations ; 1st , of the integrals of a series for the sine of an arc in terms of the arc ; 2ndly , of the expression for the root of a cubic equation in the irreducible case ; 3rdly , of the resolution of the series xF an , &amp;c. , into quadratic factors ; and , 4thly , of the series for the chord , sine , cosine , &amp;c. of a multiple arc , in terms of the chord , sine , &amp;c. of the simple are .
These demonstrations the author presumes to be direct and rigorous , which advantages , he asserts , are in a great measure owing to the deductions being expressed in algebraical language , and effected throughout by analytical processes .
The paper concludes with a brief comparison of the ancient geometry and modern analysis respecting the advantages of perspicuity and commodious calculation .
The result of this comparison is , that some of the excellencies of the former science have been exaggerated , and others deemed essential , which in fact are only accidental .
If the object of mathematical study be chiefly recreation , and the exercise of our mental faculties , our author admits that the finest examples of reasoning are to be found in the works of the ancient geometricians ; but he further insists that , for the investigation of abstruse and latent truth , and the evolution of intricate problems , the analytical method is on every consideration to be preferred to the geometrical .

