10 .
" On the Physiology and Pathology of Phosphate and Oxalate of Lime , and their relation to the formation of Cells .
" By William Beneke , M.D. Communicated by Sir James Clark , Bart. , F.R.S. In this paper the author commences by referring to a work recently published by him , entitled " Der Phosphorasure Kalk in physiologischer und therapeutischer Beziehung , " G6ttingen , 1850 , in which he believes that he has established the indispensable necessity of phosphate of lime to the formation of cells in man , as well as in animals and plants ; its deficiency as a cause of disease ; and its efficacy administered internally as a means of alleviation or cure in the treatment of such disease .
He cites from Liebig various proofs of the necessity of the presence of phosphate of lime for the formation of nitrogenous compounds in plants ; and from Carl Schmidt , that it has an intimate relation to the formation of cells in invertebrate animals ; and argues from his own experiments , that it has the same relation to the formation of cells in the higher classes of any .
mals and in man .
These experiments consisted , first , in the chemical examination of various pathological exudations , such as the serum produced by blisters , the secretions of wounds , ulcers , &amp;c. , the result of which satisfied him , that , wherever a formation of cells took place , phosphate of lime was present in considerable quantity ; and wherever it was absent , he could not detect any phosphate .
He believes that from a mixture of albumen , pure fat and phosphate of lime , put in a sand-bath at 104f , he has succeeded in artificially producing cells , which he describes and figures in various stages .
He further adduces , in proof of his theory , the beneficial results of the treatment of various diseases connected with dyscrasia , by the administration of phosphate of lime .
In such diseases he states that a much larger quantity of the phosphates is removed from the oeconomy by the urine than in the normal state ; and this he determines by a multitude of observations conducted on a method of analysis proposed by Dr. Heinz of Berlin .
This increased elimination of the phosphates he attributes to the presence of oxalic acid , the existence of which in the urine he regards as always indicative of disease .
On this subject he refers to the works of Dr. Prout , Dr. Golding Bird and Dr. Bence Jones , and compares the results of his own observations with those of the authors cited , giving figures of the various forms of oxalate of lime , and diagrams of the diurnal variations of the acidity of the urine , of its specific gravity , and of the phosphates and oxalates of lime contained in it , in two remarkable cases .
From a series of experiments on bones , he comes to the conclusion , that oxalic acid is the solvent for the phosphates in the animal oeconomy ; and deduces the production of oxalic acid , and especially of its hypernormal .
quantities , -first , from a hypernormal quantity of nonnitrogenous food , such as sugar , starch and farinaceous substances ; and secondly , from want of sufficient oxygen taken from the air , as in malarious situations , or in the cases of persons suffering from disease of the lungs .
The results of the author 's observations are finally summed up in the following terms:-I .
That in the human oeconomy , as well as in plants and in the inferior animals , the production of cells indispensably requires the presence of phosphate of lime .
2 .
That a deficient formation of cells in morbid affections of the system almost invariably indicates a deficiency of phosphate of lime ; and that the administration of phosphate of lime has proved most beneficial in such affections .
3 .
That this deficiency of phosphate of lime is proved really to exist by the hypernormal quantities of phosphates eliminated by the urine in almost all the cases in which a deficient formation of cells or a want of flesh exists .
4 .
That this eliminration of phosphates is caused by the oxalic acid which is produced in the oeconomy in health as well as in disease , and causes the elimination as well of the normal as of the hypernormal quantities of the phosphates .
5 .
That the production of oxalic acid in preternatural quantities depends on different causes , the principal of which are , the use of abandant quantities of saccharine and farinaceous food ; the want of sufficient reception of oxygen by the lungs ; a morbid decomposition of uric acid into urea and oxalic acid ; and very probably the presence of abundant quantities of alkali in the blood .
6 .
That , consequently , by putting a stop to the production of hypernormal quantities of oxalic acid , we shall stop the elimiination of hypernormal quantities of the phosphates , and consequently promote the formation of cells , supposing a sufficient quantity of nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous substances to be present .

