]\gt ; Prof. M. J. M. Hill .
On a Spherical .
219 IV .
On a Spherical Vortex By M. J. M. HILL , M.A. , Professor of Mathematics at University College , London .
Communicated by Professor HENRICI .
Received January 19 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
In a paper published by the author in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1884 , on the " " Motion of Fluid part of which is moving rotationally and part irrotationally , a certain case of motion symmeical with regard to an axis was noticed ( see pp. 403\mdash ; 405 ) .
Taking the axis of symmetry as axis of , and the distance of any point from it as , and allowing for a difference of notation , it was shown that the surfaces constant , where are fixed constants and any arbitrary function of the time , always contain the same particles of fluid in a possible case of motion .
The surfaces are of invariable form .
If the constant be negative , they are ring-shaped ; if the constant be zero , the single surface represented breaks up into an evanescent cylinder and an ellipsoid of revolution ; if the constant be positive , the surfaces have the axis of revolution for an asymptote .
The velocity perpendiclllar to the axis of symmetry is ; the velocity paraUel to the axis of symmetry is ( \mdash ; )2 , where is a fixed constant and These expressions ( which make the velocity infinitely great at inlinity ) cannot apply to a possible case of fluid motion extending to finity .
Hence the fluid moving in the above manner must be ited by a surface of finite dimensions .
This limiting surface must always contain the same particles of fluid .
Where , as in the present case , the surfaces containing the same particlesfl of fiuid are of invariable form , it is possible to imagine the limited by any of them , provided a rigid , frictionless avlng the shape of the limiting surface , be supplied and the boundary The molecular rotation is iven by , so hat molo cular rotation along the axis vanishes , and therefore the vortex sphere still possesses in a small degree the character of a vortex ring .
The in.otational motion outside a sphere moving in a straight line is known , and it is shown in this paper that it will be continuow with the rotational motion inside the sphere provided a certain tion be satisfied .
The whole motion depends on the following constants:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The radius of the sphere ( 2 ) The uniform velocity ( 3 ) The minimum value of 4 .
If be llot equal to , then the surface the same ticles when the constant vanishes breaks up into evanescent cylinder and an ellipsoid of revolution .
Now , the velocity potential of an ellipsoid moving parallel to ag axis is known .
This velocity potential with a relation betweer and will make the normal at the surface of the ellipsoil continuous with the normal velocity of the rotational motion insid9 the ellipsoid , but it does not make the pressure ltinuous .
Hence , if a motion of fluid outside the ellipsoid exist continuous with the rotational motion inside , then the motion outside the ellipsoid must be a rotational motion .
5 .
It cannot be axgued that the application of Helmholtz 's to determine the whole motion from the distribution of inside the ellipsoid must determine an motion outside the ellipsoid continuous with the rotational motion inside , because Helm holtz 's method determines irrotational motion by means of the ibution of vortices only when that distribntion is known through out space .
is not the case of the problem under discussion beforehand that the rejection of these vortices is possible .
starting from the values of the velocity components cting aortices ooving 1iquid hccount oytocbe t , On a Spherical Vortex .
223 the components of the moIecular rotation are first found , Then the potentials of ibutions of matber of densities respectively throughout the ellipsoid are determined .
These are , outside the ellipsoid , where is the parameter of the confocal ellipsoid through Then To obtain the corresponding expressions inside the ellipsoid it is necessary to eplace by zero .
Outside the ellipsoid \mdash ; \mdash ; are the differential coofficients of the potential function which , with a suitable value of , gives the of the irrotational motion outside the ellipsoid moving parallel to the axis of with velocity Bub inside the ellipsoid \mdash ; \mdash ; are not respectively equal to the values of from which the investigation commenced .
VOL.

