1874 .
] On Experiments with a Fireman 's Respirator .
IV .
" Further Experiments on the Transmission of Sound .
" By John Tyndall , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Received May 21 , 1874 .
The author describes a number of experiments made with heterogeneous atmospheres obtained by saturating alternate layers of air with the vapours of various volatile liquids .
Starting from his observation on the transmission of sound through a snow-storm on the Mer de Glace , in the winter of 1859 , he shows the extraordinary power of sound to pass through the interstices of solid bodies as long as the continuity of the air is preserved .
Sound , for example , penetrates through twelve layers of a silk handkerchief , while a single layer of the same handkerchief dipped into water , so as to fill the interstices , cuts off the sound .
He also describes numerous experiments with artificial fogs of a density so great that a depth of three feet sufficed to intercept the concentrated beam of the electric light ; the effect of such fogs on sound was sensibly nil .
Experiments were also executed on the illumination of such fogs by sudden flashes , obtained by the combustion of gunpowder or gun-cotton , or by the alternate extinction and revival of the electric and other lights .
Such flashes promise to be extremely useful as fog-signals .
The author corrects the mistake of supposing that , in the experiments at the South Foreland , the lower trumpets were not compared with the higher ones .
This , in fact , was the first step of the inquiry .
He also communicated an extraordinary instance of the interception of sound during one of the battles of the late American war .
In these experiments the author has been ably aided by his assistant , Mr. John Cottrell .
An account of the experiments will be found in a paper now printing for the Philosophical Transactions .
V. " On some recent Experiments with a Fireman 's Respirator .
" By John Tyndall , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Received May 21,1874 .
In vol. clx .
of the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' 1870 , p. 337,1 refer to certain experiments on the " floating matter of the air , " which were afterwards considerably expanded and in part described in my ' Fragments of Science .
' These experiments , in which my object was to obtain optically pure air by filtration through cotton-wool , suggested to me the notion of a fireman 's respirator .
Cotton-wool had been previously employed by Schroeder and Pasteur in their experiments on spontaneous generation .
I had heard that smoke was a formidable obstacle to the fireman , and that cases of suffocation were not rare ; hence the desire to construct a VOL. XXII .
2 F 360 On Experiments with a Fireman 's Respirator .
[ May 21 , respirator .
My first trials were made with cotton-wool alone .
Associated with the respirator was a mouthpiece with two valves : through one the inhaled air reached the lungs , having first passed through the cotton-wool , while through the other the exhaled air was discharged directly into the atmosphere .
The smoke was generated in small rooms , and in some experiments in a cupboard ; but though the irritation of the smoke was greatly mitigated by the cotton-wool , it was unbearable for any considerable time .
The cotton-wool was next carefully moistened with glycerine , no clots which could intercept the air being permitted .
The respirator was distinctly improved by the stickiness of the fibres of the wool : still , when the smoke was very dense , an amount of irritation continued , which materially interfered with the usefulness of the respirator .
Thinking it certain that the mechanically suspended matter would be intercepted by the moistened wool , I concluded that this residual irritation was due to the vaporous hydrocarbons generated during combustion : hence the thought of associating with the cotton-wool Dr. Stenhouse 's excellent device of a charcoal respirator .
The experiment was successful .
With this combination it was possible to remain with comparative comfort for half an hour , or even an hour , in atmospheres a single inhalation of which without the respirator would be intolerably painful .
Captain Shaw , of the Metropolitan Fire Brigade , has worked energetically towards the completion of the respirator by associating with it a smoke-cap .
Mr. Sinclair has done the same , and he informs me that the respirator is now in considerable demand .
Having heard from Captain Shaw that , in some recent very trying experiments , he had obtained the best effects from dry cotton-wool , and thinking that I could not have been mistaken in my first results , which proved the dry so much inferior to the moistened wool and its associated charcoal , I proposed to Captain Shaw to bring the matter to a test at his workshops in the city .
He was good enough to accept my proposal , and thither I went on the 7th of May .
The smoke was generated in a confined space from wet straw , and it was certainly very diabolical .
At this season of the year I am usually somewhat shorn of vigour , and therefore not in the best condition for severe experiments ; still I wished to test the matter in my own person .
With a respirator which had been in use some days previously , and which was not carefully packed , I followed a fireman into the smoke , he being provided with a dry-wool respirator .
I was compelled to quit the place in about three minutes , while the fireman remained there for six or seven minutes .
I then tried his respirator upon myself , and found that with it I could not remain more than a minute in the smoke ; in fact the first inhalation provoked coughing .
Thinking that Captain Shaw himself might have lungs more like mine than those of his fireman , I proposed that he and I should try the 1874 .
] Election of Fellows .
361 respirators ; but he informed me that his lungs were very strong .
He was , however , good enough to accede to my request .
Packing the respirator with greater care , I entered the den with Captain Shaw .
I c\amp ; uld hear him breathe long , slow inhalations ; and after the lapse of seven minutes I heard him cough .
In seven and a half minutes he had to quit the place , thus proving that his lungs were able to endure the irritation seven times as long as mine could bear it .
I continued in the smoke with hardly any discomfort for sixteen minutes , and certainly could have remained in it much longer .
During this time I was in a condition to render very material assistance to a person in danger of suffocation .
The smoke-cap I wore was one made by Mr. Sinclair , which has a mouthpiece similar to that used in the inhalation of nitrous oxide .
But , to show the care necessary in packing the respirator , it is only necessary to remark that , with the packing furnished to me by Mr. Sinclair , it was not possible for either myself or Mr. Cottrell to continue in a dense smoke for more than three minutes ; and even these were minutes of laborious breathing .
Flannel disks are employed in these respirators , but I cannot recommend them .
Cotton-wool carefully moistened and teased is , in my opinion , much better .
It is always possible to associate fragments of lime with the respirator , thus , if necessary , intercepting a portion of the carbonic acid .
But in most fires we have a more or less free circulation of air ; and I venture to think that not in one case in a thousand of actual fires would the combination of smoke and carbonic acid be so noisome as it was in the experiments here described .
The Society then adjourned over the Whitsuntide Becess , to Thursday , June 11 .
June 4 , 1874 .
The Annual Meeting for the election of Fellows was held this day .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair . .
The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read , Sir James Alderson and General Boileau were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining the Lists .
The votes of the Fellows present having been collected , the following candidates were declared duly elected into the Society:\#151 ;

