228 Mr. H. M. Vernon .
The Relations between the " The .Relations between the Hybrid and Parent Forms Eohinoid Larvae .
" By H. M. Vernon , M.A. , M.B. C( municated by Professor Ray Lankester , F.R.S. Receh March 29 , \#151 ; Read May 5 , 1898 .
( From the Zoological Station , Naples .
) ( Abstract .
) The object of this research was to determine systematically dun .
a period of several months ' duration , the exact relationship of structi and size existing between certain hybrid and parent Echinoid lar 1 forms .
Eight different species of Echinoids were worked with , 1 the larger number of observations were confined to three of the viz. , Strongylocentrotuslividus , Sp and microtu herculatus .
The method of procedure was similar to tl described in a former paper* It consisted in shaking pieces of t ovaries and testes of the various Echinoids in small jars of wat and then mixing portions of the contents .
In the cross-fertilisatior precautions were of course taken to prevent any accidental dire fertilisation of the ova .
After standing an hour , the now fertilised o were transferred to large jars of water , holding , as a rule , 2 to i litres .
Here they were allowed to develop for eight days , when tl plutei formed were killed , preserved , and examined under the micr scope .
The structure of the hybrids , in relation to that of the parei forms , was studied ; and all the larvae , both pure and hybrid , we ] measured by means of a micrometer eye-piece in respect of the body length and anal arm length .
Fifty larvae were , as a rul measured in each case .
In addition , the ova were examined unde the microscope twenty-four hours after fertilisation , and the numbei of blastulae and unfertilised ova in a given volume of water countec Again , after eight days , the number of plutei surviving was similar !
estimated .
Upon the cross Sphcerechinus ?
Strongylocentrotus 3 , twenty-tw experiments were made .
As a rule only about 10 per cent , of the ov were fertilised , and only 1 per cent , of them reached the eight day pluteus stage .
The hybrids were most easily obtained in the snmmei months , few or none of the ova being cross-fertilised in the winter unless the aids to fertilisation made use of by 0 .
and R. Hertwig , " and by Born , J were adopted .
Thus the former observers showed that if the ova were shaken in water and kept some hours , so tha\gt ; their vitality became diminished , they underwent cross-fertilisatior * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B ( 1895 ) , p. 577 .
t ' Jenaische Zeitschrift f. Medicin , ' vol. 19 , p. 121 ( 1886 ) .
I ' Pfliiger 's Archiv , ' vol. 32 , p. 453 .
Hybrid and Parent Forms of Echinoid Larvae .
229 nch more readily than when freshly shed* Bom , on the other hand , f(nd the cross fertilisation could be increased by increasing the fiount of sperm added .
Both methods , but especially the former , pre found of value in the present research .
Is regards the structure of the hybrids under discussion , it was f .nd that the majority of those obtained in May , June , and July ur of an almost pure Sphcerechinus type , only a third or less of tsm being of an intermediate or Strongylocentrotus type .
In } vember , on the other hand , only about a sixth were of the maternal , \#187 ; I five-sixths of the paternal type .
Finally , in December and .unary , all the hybrid larvae were of the paternal type .
These liter larvae in almost all cases showed obvious traces of their hybrid ( gin , but they were evidently much more inclined to the lentrotus than to the Sphcerechinus type .
Thus the body skeleton hs like that of Strongylocentrotus , only it generally had a few snormal projections springing from it .
It was also , as a rule , about f per cent , shorter .
The anal arm skeleton generally consisted of to rods , but there were very seldom any cross bars joining them , ch as occur in Sphcerechinus larvae .
On the reciprocal cross of Strongylocentrotus ?
and Sphcerechinus $ ghteen experiments were made .
During April , May , and June a ir number of the ova were cross-fertilised , but no plutei were \gt ; tained .
In July and August some 47 per cent , of the ova were rtilised , and 29 per cent , of them survived to the eight days pluteus age .
In November and December , on the other hand , with one cception , not only were no plutei obtained , but as a rule not a ngle ovum was cross-fertilised .
The hybrid larvae themselves were i the pure Strongylocentrotus type , but in one*^instance the arms of te larvae were very much longer than had ever been noticed in any 6her case .
These hybrids appeared therefore to be of the nature of port .
These extraordinary variations in the capacity for cross-fertilisa-ion seem to be due to the variations in maturity which the sexual roducts undergo with change of season .
Thus in the summer aonths most of the Strongylocentrotus individuals contain but very mall quantities of ripe sexual products , or none at all .
Also from h.e fifty different series of observations made on normal Strongy-o centrotuslarvae , it appeared that the size of the larvae kept at the naximum from the beginning of April till the beginning of May , mt then began to dwindle down , so that at the beginning of July it eached its lowest level .
The larvae were now sometimes 30 per cent , smaller than the spring larvae .
After the middle of August they gradually increased again , and by the end of November had attained jheir maximum size .
Sphcerechinus larvae , on the other hand , kept at about the same size throughout the year , though considerably 230 Relations of Hybrid and Parent Forms of Eckinoid smaller numbers of the ova reached the plutens stage in the sura than in the winter months .
We see therefore that the Strongylo trotns $ -Spheerechinus $ hybrid is only formed at the time Strongylocentrotns ova have reached their minimum of whilst in the case of the reciprocal hybrid , it follows that as maturity of the Strongylocentrotus increases , it is able to inmate first a portion and then the whole of the hybrid larvce from Sphaerechinus to its own type .
I other words , the characteristic ) , the hybrid offspring depend directly on the relative degrees of of the sexual products .
As a result of the ten experiments made on the cross Echinus Strongylocentrotus \lt ; ?
, it was found that the hybrid larva ?
were on average about 8 per cent , larger than the pure parental larval for and , moreover , that even more of the cross-fertilised ova developed plutei than of the directly fertilised ones .
The hybrid larva ?
were !
a variable , but more or less intermediate , type .
In the reciprol cross , on the other hand , only a small proportion of the ova und went fertilisation , and only about 1 per cent , of them reached pluteus stage .
These plutei were on an average 13-2per cent , small than the pure maternal larvce .
In structure they were of a Stron Zoce\#187 ; Zro ; fw$-intermediate type .
Hybrids between Sphcerechinus ?
and Echinus S were obtair on only two occasions .
The larvce were of a very variable intermediate type , and were much dwarfed .
In the reciprocal cro hybrids were also obtained only twice , but then about 60 per cent , the ova reached the pluteus stage .
These hybrids were of the pi Echinus type .
On most other occasions a small number of the o were cross-fertilised , but failed to develop to plutei .
Hybrid larvae , of the maternal type , were obtained on crossi Arbacia ova with Strongylocentrotus and with Echinus sperm , b with Sphcerechinus sperm only gastrulae resulted .
Hybrids were ai obtained between Arbacia S ' and Strongylocentrotus , and Echinus ? .
These hybrids were of the maternal types , but some of the Sphcerechinus hybrid larvae the anal arm skeletons wei similar to those in pure Arbacia larvce .
Hybrid larvae were obtained between Echinocardium cor datum and Strongylocentrotus , Sphcerechinus , Echinus , and Arbacia Si ^ larvae being of the maternal type , but somewhat modified by th nature of the sperm .
The hybrids between Echinocardiw mediterraneum$ and Strongylocentrotus and *were of a intermediate type ; hence , one is afforded a physiological argumer .
in favour of the specific difference of these two forms , the existenc of which has hitherto been considered rather doubtful .
Hybrid larva ?
of the maternal type were obtained on crossin .
Strongylocentrotus $ with Dorocidaris S , but the reciprocal cross Meeting of May 12 , 1898 .
\gt ; lded only gastrulae .
Finally , hybrids , of a presumably inter-diate character , were obtained from the cross Echinus \#166 ; atus % and Echinusacutustf .
With the ova of Sphcerechinus and ihinocardium , and the sperm of Echinus acutus , only gastrulee were i gained .
On performing cross-fertilisations with the colour varieties of ihcerechinus , there was found to be a distinct diminution of fertility , the most marked instance , obtained in the experiments made on no 2 , it was found that when white-spined varieties were fertilised .th white-spined , and violet-spined with violet , 98'5 per cent , of 13 ova reached the blastula stage , and 73 per cent , the eight days ateus stage .
But on cross-fertilising white-spined with violet--ined individuals , only 68 per cent , of the ova developed to istulffi , and 156 per cent , to plutei .
Also these crossed larva ?
were \gt ; per cent , smaller than the uncrossed .
Other series of experi- snts were made in July , November , and December , the differential rtility seeming to gradually diminish with the progress of the season , evertheless , it was always most distinctly present .
On crossing the 3S definitely marked colour varieties of a small count of insertility seemed to be present in one series of experi-ents , but none at all in another .
May 12 , 1898 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.O.L. , President , in the Chair .
Professor Dewar made a preliminary communication On the iquefaction of Hydrogen and Helium .
" He prefaced his statement by referring to a letter which he had Idressed to the President on the 10th May , announcing to him the ict that he had succeeded in liquefying hydrogen in quantity , and lat by means of the liquid hydrogen he had also liquefied helium .
The following Papers were als'o read :\#151 ; I. " On the Magnetic Susceptibility of Liquid Oxygen .
" By Professor Fleming , F.R.S. , and Professor James Dewar , F.R.S. II .
" A Study of the Phyto-Plankton of the Atlantic .
" By G. Murray , F.R.S. , and V. H. Blackman .
II .
" TheEtectric Response of Nerve to a single Stimulus investigated with the Capillary Electrometer .
Preliminary Communication .
" By Professor Gotch , F.R.S. , and G. J. Burch , vol. lxiii .
s

