II .
" On some new Compounds obtained by Nitrogen-substitution , and new Alcohols derived therefrom .
" By PETER GRIESS , Esq. Communicated by Dr. HOFMANN .
Received December 18 , 1862 .
In the beginning of this year ( 1862 ) I pointed out* that diazoamidobenzol , when submitted to the action of nitric acid containing nitrous acid in solltion , is transformed into a new compound according to the equation CI2 H11 N3- , 2H NO +H NO3=2(C6 H1 N2 , 1 NO3 ) +2 H , 0 .
Diazo-amidobenzol .
New compound .
I have now found that this remarkable compound , the nitrate of diazobenzol , can be much more easily produced by the action of nitrous acid upon nitrate of aniline , C6 H7 N , H NO + N , =C,6 H4 , , N,0 +2H2 O. Nitrate of aniline .
Nitrate of diazobenzol .
This process has furnished me a considerable number of similarly conconstituted nitrogen-substituted derivatives , not only of monacid monamines , but also of diamines ; and it is to some of the bodies generated by means of the latter that I beg leave to call the attention of the Royal Society .
If a current of nitrous acid be passed into a cold solution of the nitrate of benzidine , a base which , by the researches of P. W. Hofmann , has been characterized as a well-defined diacid diamine , a new compound is produced , crystallizing from water in white needles , explosive like fulminate of mercury , the composition of which was established by the analysis of a platinum-salt containing C12 HE N , , 2HCl , 2PtC2 , .
The formation of this new substance is illustrated by the following equation : C12 112 N2+ 2H NO3 +2H N2 =C1 H6 N , 2II NO3 +4H 0 .
, _L___ , ?
JtJ Nitrate of benzidine .
New compound .
Of subordinate interest themselves , these substances deserve to be noticed on account of the numerous and often peculiar bodies arising from their decomposition .
Thus the tetrazo-compoundjust described , when boiled with water , splits according to the equation C12 H , N4 , 2H NO3+2H20= C12 H O , + 2N4+2H NO , .
Nitrate of tetrazo-compound , New substance .
The new non-nitrogenous substance thus obtained crystallizes in small sublimable plates .
Both formula and properties characterize it as a compound standing , like phenol , upon the boundary line between acids and alcohols : it furnishes a very extensive series of derivatives , which may be generally represented by the formula 2Phenyl-body 2H -I new compound , IHere I will only mention the chloride corresponding to the new alcohol ( acid ) .
It crystallizes in white volatile plates , which may be readily prepared by heating the above-mentioned platinum-salt with carbonate of sodium .
The reaction takes place at 100 ? .
C12 H N4 , 2H C1 , 2 PtCl C=012 H C12 + 2PtCIl +4 N. In conclusion , I may be allowed to state that nitrate of naphthylamin likewise yields an azo-compound .
This compound , Co1 N HNH N O , when submitted to the action of boiling water , undergoes a transformation analogous to that of nitrate of diazobenzol , C , H , N2 HNO3 + H2 0=C6 0+ 2N+ H NO3 , Nitrate of diazobenzol .
Phenol .
Clo H6 N2 H NO + H20= C H8 0+ 2N+ H NO , .
Nitrate of diazonaphthol .
New compound .
I have not yet analysed this new compound ; but both mode of formation and properties ( it crystallizes in white very fusible needles , possessing the odour of creosote ) leave no doubt that it is the alcohol of the naphthaline series which has so long eluded the researches of chemists .

