Continuous Rays in Spark Spectra of , etc. 403 The vacuum between the jacket and the mass would act as an efficient nonconductor of heat .
We may , however , probably conclude with considerable certainty on the combined testimony of the two series of experiments that , within the limits of temperature used , no variation of weight occurs greater than 1 part in 108 for a rise in temperature of 1 ' C. Note on the Continuous Rays observed in the Spark Spectra of Metalloids and some Metals .
By W. N. Hartley , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received October 17 , \#151 ; Read November 8 , 1906 .
) In a paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , '* reasons were given for believing that the back-ground of continuous rays in the spark spectra of the metalloids , for instance , tellurium , arsenic , antimony , and bismuth , was caused by the light emitted by an incandescent oxide , whether in a state of vapour or solid , having its origin in the cooling of the dense vapour of the element in an atmosphere containing oxygen .
The spectra of metals which are not oxidisable did not show it , namely , gold , silver , and platinum , neither did those of the easily volatile metals such as mercury , indium , f thallium , zinc , and cadmium .
It was visible on photographed spectra of metals belonging to the iron group , but at the points of the electrodes only , where a non-volatile oxide is formed .
As the original explanation has not been accepted as satisfactory !
I have recently submitted the question to a special examination .
It must not be overlooked that spark spectra with continuous rays are yielded by the metals lead , tin , and cadmium , if the exposure of the photographic plate be increased to double that sufficing for the line spectra , and that sparks passing between electrodes of these metals in air deposit their oxides on all objects near to them ; in hydrogen , films of metal are deposited on the walls of the containing vessel , and when air is substituted for hydrogen there is at first a deposit of oxide , and subsequently one of * Yol .
49 , pp. 448\#151 ; 451 , 1891 .
t This word is misprinted t : iridium " in the ' Proceedings .
' X See Kayser 's ' Handbuch der Spectroscopie , ' vol. '2 , p. 286 ; also P. Lenard , ' Annalen der Physik , ' 1905 , vol. 17 , pp. 208\#151 ; 212 .
' 404 Prof. W. N. Hartley .
Continuous Rays observed [ Oct. 17 , metal when the oxygen has been exhausted .
In 1905 , having again sought for the most convenient source of a continuous spectrum extending as far into the ultra-violet as wave-length 2144 , the subject of the continuous rays was re-investigated by passing sparks between metallic electrodes in a closed vessel containing different gases .
The conditions of the experiment , such as the size of the electrodes , the length of spark , and the period of exposure were identical for each gas and for each metal .
The exposure was five minutes in a spectrograph with quartz lenses of 20 inches focus , and Cadett and Neall 's spectrum plates developed with ferrous oxalate .
The spectra were taken , one below the other , on the same plate , and close together so that they could be easily compared .
The results shortly are as follows:\#151 ; The emissive power of cadmium , as measured by its action on a photographic plate , stands first in hydrogen , second in nitrogen , third in air , and fourth , weak in carbon dioxide .
This order applies particularly to the lines , but if we consider the continuous rays , the spectrum in hydrogen is the strongest , then those in nitrogen and air are about equal , but less strong than in hydrogen , the spectrum in carbon dioxide is very feeble .
The result appears different when the electrodes are of lead .
Thus the emission spectra both of lines and continuous rays are equal and very strong in hydrogen and nitrogen : they are equal , but very feeble , in carbon dioxide and air .
The lines are a little stronger in nitrogen than in hydrogen , the continuous spectrum in both is strong and of equal intensity ; the lines in carbon dioxide show less intensity , and the continuous spectrum is of about half the intensity of that in the hydrogen and nitrogen ; in air the lines and the continuous rays are both enfeebled .
In order to ascertain whether the metalloids give stronger spectra of continuous rays when they are exposed to the influence of hydrogen , arsenic and antimony were experimented upon .
It is necessary to quote only the case of arsenic .
It became of interest to ascertain whether by the action of the spark on this element in hydrogen a characteristic hydride could be obtained which would prove a delicate test for its presence .
The results showed that the lines are very sharp and distinct in hydrogen while the continuous rays are feeble , but with air the lines are more feeble wThile the continuous rays are practically non-existent , or at most barely visible in any part of the spectrum .
The result was similar with antimony .
Ho evidence of any importance was obtained showing that the spectrum was other than that of arsenic or antimony as observed in the spectrum of air .
On reviewing the facts we s ee , first , that the nature of the gas surrounding the electrodes appears to have a distinct influence on the spectra ; , that it operates somewhat differently on different metals ; thirdly , that the 1906 .
] in the Spark Spectra of Metalloids and some Metals .
405 continuous spectrum is not caused by oxidation , because in every case it is strongest when the electrodes are immersed in hydrogen or nitrogen .
All the spectra are weakest in an atmosphere containing oxygen , whether free or combined , such as air or carbon dioxide , and the conclusion is inevitable that oxidation destroys or weakens the spectrum , for even in the carbon dioxide atmosphere the reversible interaction C02 ^ CO + 0 may liberate oxygen in greater quantity than that which is present in the same volume of atmospheric air .
The continuous rays are clearly not due to the emissive power of any incandescent oxide , either gaseous or solid .
On the Use of Metallic Electrodes as a Source of Continuous Rays.\#151 ; Particulars of trials made with various metallic electrodes were given on p. 473 of the ' Phil. Trans. , ' Part II , 1885 ( " Absorption Spectra of the Alkaloids , " ) and need not be recapitulated .
E. Pauer also experimented in the same manner 12 years afterwards and arrived at the same conclusion , namely , that the continuous rays of cadmium answered the purpose better than copper , iron , or nickel electrodes.* At various times a number of flame spectra have been examined , as , for instance , those of sulphur and of phosphorus burning in oxygen , of carbon disulphide in nitrous oxide , phosphine in oxygen , ether and hydrogen with oxygen burnt from a blowpipe , also acetylene with oxygen burnt in the same manner .
The inverted Welsbach incandescent gas-light used without a glass , the zirconia , magnesia , and lime lights have all been tried .
Of the flame spectra the best effect is obtained with acetylene and oxygen , the rays are quite continuous and of equal intensity from the red to beyond wavelength 2700 .
There are some difficulties attending manipulation with flames , particularly on account of their great heating effect , and I have therefore returned to the use of the cadmium spark spectrum for special observations on the spectra of hydrocarbon vapours , with results that I propose to make the subject of another communication .
* ' Wiedemann 's Ann. , ' 1897 , vol. 61 , p. 363 .
VOL. LXXVIII.\#151 ; A.

