260 Mr. E. C. Pickering .
[ May 24 which forms the insoluble portion of the meteorite of Ensisheim What was supposed to be alumina was further examined , and wai found to be almost entirely chromium oxide , doubtless present ixi combination with some iron protoxide , alumina , and magnesia ai chromite .
And it appears not improbable that this part of tb meteorite contains some tridymite , ' a few per cent. , in fact .
V. " Circular concerning Astronomical , Photography .
" From E C. Pickering , Director of Harvard College Observatory Cambridge , Mass .
, U.S.A. Astronomical Photography .
The important part that photography is likely to play in the futurtj of astronomy renders it desirable that an opportunity should bj afforded to astronomers to acquaint themselves with the .
improve ments continually made in this branch of their science .
This couli best be done by the establishment at convenient places of collection designed to exhibit the progress of photography as applied to astro nomical observations .
The Harvard College Observatory has some special advantages fo forming such a collection , since it already possesses many of tb early and historically important specimens which would natural !
form part of the series .
Among these may be mentioned four serie of daguerreotypes and photographs of various celestial objects take* at this Observatory .
These series were respectively undertaken v 1850 , 1857 , 1869 , and 1882 .
At present , the astronomers of the United States , have no .read ) means of comparing\#187 ; their photographic work with t that done ii Europe , or even with that of their own countrymen .
The propose* collection of photographs , so far as it could be * rendered complete would greatly reduces the edifficulty .
It is therefore desired ; to form , at the Harvard ^College Observe tory , a collection of all ^photographs of the heavenly bodies and o their spectra which can be obtained for the purpose ; and it is ho|Jj0 that both European and American astronomers will contnbut specimens to this collection .
Original negatives would be particul^H valuable .
It may happen that " some such negatives , having slig\amp ; j imperfections which would limit* their value for purposes of engraY ing , could be spared for a collection , and would be as imporJH ( considered as astronomical observations ) as others photographica j more perfect .
In some cases* astronomers may be willing to^ dep negatives taken ?
for .
special purpose , and no longer required w study , in a collection inhere they ' would retain a permanent value .
$* ; 1883 .
] Circular concerning Astronomical Photography .
261 parts of an historical series .
Where photography is regularly employed in a continuous series of observations , it is obvious that specimen negatives only can be spared for a collection .
But in such cases it is hoped that some duplicates may be available , and that occasional negatives may hereafter be taken for the purpose of being I added to the collection , to exhibit recent improvements or striking j phenomena .
: When negatives cannot be furnished , glass positives , taken if | possible by direct printing , would be very useful .
If these also are not procurable , photographic prints or engravings would be desirable .
In connexion with the photographs themselves , copies of memoirs or communications relating to the specimens sent , or to the general subject | of astronomical photography , would form an interesting supplement to the collection .
A part of the contemplated scheme will involve the preparation of a complete bibliography of the subject , including a list of unpublished photographs not hitherto mentioned in works to which reference may be made .
The expense which may be incurred by contributors to the collection in the preparation and transmission of specimens will be gladly repaid by the Harvard College Observatory when desired .
EDWARD C. PICKERING , Director of the Harvard College Observatory .
Cambridge , Mass .
, February 21 , 1883 .

