On the North Polar Distances of the principal fixed Stars .
By John Brinkley , D.D. F.R.S. 8 &amp;c. Andrews Professor of Astronomy in the University of Dublin .
Read December 18 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 50 .
] The author observes , that of the recent catalogues that have been formed of the principal fixed stars , two , those of Dublin and Greenwich , agree very exactly .
That of M. Bessel differs considerably ; but the differences are , such that they would agree by a modification of the co-efficients of refraction employed for correcting the observations .
Mr. Pond , he says , has applied the refractions of Bradley to the instrument of Dublin ; he himself thinks it more safe to determine the refraction for each place from its own instruments ; and he objects to the reasoning by which Mr. Pond has endeavoured to prove the existence of a flexure in the tube of the instrument of Dublin .
Dr. Brinkley makes the mean difference of the stars of Greenwich and Dublin for 1813 only a few tenths of a second ; for 1823 , still less .
Neither the Dublin Catalogue , nor any other more extensive comparison , affords , in his opinion , a confirmation of the hypothesis of a general southern motion , which he is therefore inclined to attribute principally to a slight inaccuracy of the Greenwich Catalogue for 1813 .
The comparisons unfavourable to the southern motion are those of Bradley 's observations at Wanstead , in 1728 ; and some French observations , in 1740 ; of Maskelyne 's at Schehalien , in 1774 ; General Mudge 's , in 1802 ; and General Lambton 's , in 1805 ; as well as of Piazzi 's Catalogue .
Mr. Pond 's observations at Westbury agree too little with the Catalogue of Greenwich , he thinks , to be of any use in the inquiry ; and Mechain 's are opposed to others made by better instruments .
Dr. Brinkley does not think it an argument in favour of Bessel 's refractions , that they give the obliquity of the ecliptic the same for both solstices ; he rather supposes some particular equation is required for the solar refraction , Bessel 's refraction at low altitudes being manifestly too large for the stars .
The question of parallax Dr. Brinkley still reserves for future discussion .

