On Intestinal Rest and Movement .
1886 .
] value , but has kindly supplied me with the wires used in these experiments .
The discussion proved the necessity of the researches which I have undertaken , and the importance of an experimental determination of the self-induction of an electric current in relation to the nature and form of its conductor .
IX .
" Contribution to the Study of Intestinal Rest and Movement .
" By J. Theodore Cash , M.D. Communicated by T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 25 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) Experiments were made upon a dog in which a Weller 's fistula had been established .
The length of the isolated intestine ( upper part of the jejunum ) was 18'5 cm .
By merely observing the mouths of the fistula , it was ascertained that during a condition of hunger , periods of complete quiescence , varying from two to twelve minutes , occur .
At any time , however , contractions having a very regular rhythm , might make themselves manifest .
On food being presented to the animal , immediately after swallowing and for some time after ingestion the movements became much more active and persistent .
Some hours ( four to five ) after a full meal they fell to their minimum .
For the closer study of the speed of transit of a solid or semi-solid body through the fistula , travelling sounds connected with a registering .
apparatus were employed .
Compressible but fixed sounds for the study of local contraction were also used .
The most important results obtained were the following:\#151 ; 1 .
That the act of swallowing , whether empty , i.e. , produced by external friction of the larynx , or of liquids , is frequently succeeded by contraction , sometimes by distinct peristalsis of the intestine .
Inhalation of sulphuric ether for a few seconds\#151 ; which causes abundant salivation and deglutition\#151 ; is almost invariably followed by active intestinal contraction .
2 .
Mental impressions , tickling the walls of the abdomen or the application of cold to them , are amongst the causes of contraction of the small intestine .
3 .
An unfailing means of producing well-marked peristaltic contraction is the administration of food to the fasting animal .
Not only does this cause the individual contractions to ensue with greater regularity and force than before , but they have less of the pendulum character ( contraction succeeded by complete relaxation ) , and during the pauses the travelling sound is so effectually " gripped " that it On Intestinal Rest and Movement .
[ May 27 , recedes but little , and is therefore forwarded through the fistula with great rapidity .
For a varying time after a full meal ( two to three hours ) , the progress of a body is steady and moderately rapid ; after that time it usually becomes much slower .
The following figures give an approximate idea of the speed of transmission under various conditions :\#151 ; Fasting\#151 ; 1 cm .
of fistulous intestine traversed in 2 to 4 ' .
Immediately after a meal\#151 ; Ditto in 30 to 40 " .
Several hours after a meal ( 4 or 5)\#151 ; Ditto in some instances 1 cm .
only in 10 ' .
4 .
Propulsion of a solid body is in the physiological direction .
5 .
The introduction of water or bodies in a state of solution into the fistulous intestine is succeeded by a constant and peculiar modification of the peristalsis which may be present at the time .
6 .
Exercise of slight traction upon the travelling body renders its passage difficult or impossible , although it calls into play powerful and " griping " contractions of the intestine .
7 .
Exercise is highly favourable to a rapid and effective peristalsis .
8 .
Mechanical irritation ( as the licking of the mouth of the fistula by the rough tongue of a dog ) causes powerful co-ordinate movement .
9 .
The effect of electrical stimulation , and the action of a large number of drugs have been examined , the results obtained will be made the object of a further communication .
The President announced that Professor Dewar , F.R.S. , had succeeded in obtaining oxygen in the solid state , and that he , with some others , had that afternoon witnessed the experiment .
The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thursday , June 10th .

