I. " On a peculiar Arrangement of the Sanguiferous System in Terebratula and certain other BRACHIIOPODA .
" By W. B. CARPENTER , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 30 , 1854 .
In a memoir " On the Minute Structure of Shell , " read before the Royal Society January 17 , 1843 , ( and subsequently embodied in a " Report " on the same subject , prepared at the request of the British Association for the Advancement of Science , and published in its Transactions for 1844 , ) I first announced the fact , that the 'punctations ' which had been previously noticed on the exterior of many Brachiopodous shells , both recent and fossil , are really the orifices of tubular perforations , which pass directly through each valve , from one of its surfaces to the other ( fig. 1 ) .
Having subsequently obtained specimens of Terebratulce in which the soft parts of the animals had been preserved , in connection with their shells , I ascertained that these passages are occupied in the living state by membranous ceca , closed externally , but opening on the internal surface of the shell , and filled with minute cells of a brownish hue .
Recollecting that Professor Owen , in his account of dissections of some species of Terebratula and Orbicula ( Transactions of the Zoological Society , vol. i. ) , had spoken of an unusual adhesion of the mantle to the shell in these Bivalves , it occurred to me that this adhesion might be due to a continuity between the mantle and these caecal tubuli ; and I carefully sought for evidence of such a structure .
In this , however , I was entirely unsuccessful ; for the mantle , when stripped from the shell , presented no appearance whatever of having transmitted any such prolongations into its substance ; on the contrary , it was evidently continued over the mouths of the cseca with which it was in apposition ; and I fre .
quently found its external surface ( that in contact with the shell ) covered in patches with cells exactly resembling in size and aspect those contained within the caeca .
I was equally unsuccessful in the attempt to trace any other connection between these cmca and the soft parts of the animal ; so that , although their importance in its oeconomy scarcely admitted of doubt , the nature of their function remained entirely unknown .
The idea that they had any connection with the formation of the shell itself , seemed to be completely negatived by the fact , that in a large proportion of the group of BRACHIOPODA , no such perforations exist ; notwithstanding that their shells , in every other feature of minute structure , are exactly accordant with that of Terebratula.-The foregoing results were communicated to the British Scientific Association in 1847 , and were embodied in the Second Part of my " Report " published in its Transactions for that year .
The physiological importance of the characters of 'perforation ' or 'non-perforation ' has become continually more obvious , as the principles on which the subdivision of the group of Brachiopoda should be founded , have been gradually settled by those who have concerned themselves with its systematic arrangement ; and in particular , the universal presence of the perforations in the shells of the family Terebratulidce , contrasted with their equally universal absence in those of the family Rhynchonellide , unequivocally marked its relation to the general conformation of the animals of these subdivisions .
Having been requested by Mr. Davidson to undertake a more detailed investigation than I had yet made , into the minute structure of the shells of Brachiopoda , for the sake of throwing still further light upon the classification of the group , I applied myself afresh to the solution of the problem , and believing that I have succeeded in ascertaining the import of this curious feature in the organization of Terebratula and its allies , I beg to offer an account of my results to the Royal Society .
The membrane which is commonly spoken of as ' the mantle , ' and which may be stripped from the shell by the use of sufficient force to overcome its adhesions , must , I maintain , be considered as really its inner layer only ; for I find that an outer layer exists , so intimately incorporated with the shell as not to be separable from it without the removal of its calcareous component by maceration in dilute acid .
When thus detached , this outer layer is found to be continuous with the membrane lining the perforations in the shell ( fig. 1 b ) ; so that their tubular ceca are , in fact , prolongations of the real external surface of the mantle .
The adhesion of the inner to the outer Fig. 1 .
C Diagram of the intra-palleal sinus-system of Terebratula , with its caecal prolongations into the shell ; -A , B , section of valve ; a , inner layer of mantle , b , outer layer in contact with the shell , and giving off cteca ; c , continuity of the two at margin of valve .
layer ( which Professor Owen , not being aware of the existence of an outer layer , interpreted as an adhesion of the mantle to the shell ) does not extend to the whole of the contiguous surfaces , but is limited to certain bands or spots , the two layers of membrane , in the intervals between these , being separated by a set of irregular spaces , freely communicating with one another , and with the cavities of the ceca , so as to form a rude network .
This arrangement is peculiarly well marked in Terebratula caput-serpentis , as shown ill the figure ( fig. 2 ) ; and to those who are familiar with the condition of the circulating apparatus in the inferior Mollusca , it is scarcely possible not to recognize in it a ' sinus-system , ' corresponding to that which is formed in the Tunicata by the partial adhesion of the second and third tunics to each other .
Considered under this point of view , the caecal structure ( as was first suggested to me by my friend Mr. T. H. Huxley ) bears a close resemblance to the vascular prolongations , which , in many Ascidians , pass from the sinus-system into the substance of the 'test ; ' the chief difference lying in this , -that whilst each of the vascular prolongations into the ' test ' of the Ascidians contains both an afferent and an efferent canal , -no such distinction ordinarily manifests itself in these prolongations of the intra-palleal sinus-system of Terebratula , although I have met with indications of it in Crania .
Their caecal character , however , is by no means opposed to the views I am now giving of their physiological nature ; for it has been shown by M. de Quatrefages , that the prolongations of the 'general cavity of the body , ' which pass into the branchiae and other appendages of Annelida , transmitting to them its nutritive fluid for aeration , are always ctecal , notwithstanding that they are sometimes distributed as minutely as blood-vessels* .
Fig. 2 .
Sinus-system of Terebratula caput-serpentis ( as shown by the grinding away of the shell , without detaching the mantle ) , being a network of canals formed by the adhesion of the two layers of the mantle at certain spots , leaving passages around them .
On this interpretation , the cells which are found within the caeca , and in the spaces between the contiguous surfaces of the two layers of the mantle , are to be regarded as blood-corpuscles , and they correspond in size and appearance ( so far as can be determined by specimens preserved in spirits ) with the blood-corpuscles of Ascidian and Lamellibranchiate Mollusks .
The sinus-system from which this collection of caca proceeds , appears to be altogether distinct from the vascular apparatus of the ( so-called ) 'mantle , ' ( that is , according to my interpretation , of the inner layer of the mantle ) which has been described by Professor Owen ; but it probably communicates with the ' common sinus ' at the back part of the visceral chamber , which is stated by Professor Owen to receive the blood , not only from the palleal sinuses of the dorsal and ventral valves , but also from " other sinuses that there fill , line , and seem to form , the visceral or peritoneal cavity* .
" It cannot be deemed improbable , then , that the apparatus in question is branchial in its nature ; and that it is designed to provide for certain tribes a more special means of aerating the blood , than is afforded by that distribution of blood to the general surface of the mantle , which is common to the entire group .
This view of its respiratory office is confirmed by an observation communicated to me by Professor Quekett ; viz. that the discoidal opercula which cover the external orifices of the caeca , and which , though adherent to the periostracum , are not structurally continuous with it , present appearances in young shells , which seem indicative of the existence of a fringe of cilia round each , designed to produce currents of water over the extremities of the caeca .
The resemblance which these c.ecal prolongations of the sinussystem into the shell of the Terebratula bear to the vascular prolongations of the sinus-system into the test of certain Ascidians , is not without its parallel in another group , which ( as pointed out by Mr. Hancock , Ann. of Not .
Hist. vol. v. p. 198 ) is intimately related to that of Brachiopoda , -namely , the Bryozoa .
The stony walls of the ' cells ' which invest the soft bodies of many species of Eschara , Lepralia , &amp;c. , are marked , like the shells of Terebratulae , with punctations , which are really the orifices of short passages extending into them from their internal cavity , as sections of these structures demonstrate .
These passages I have found to be occupied by prolongations of the visceral sac , which is the only representative of a circulating system among these animals ; and they thus convey the nutrient fluid which this contains , into the substance of the framework formed by the calcified tunics of these animals .
I need not here enlarge upon the additional value which these structural and physiological considerations afford , to the character of " perforation " or " non-perforation " in the shells of Brachiopoda .
The importance of this character in systematic arrangement will plainly appear , I think , from the details which I have published in the Introduction to Mr. Davidson 's Monograph already referred to .

