75 Experiments on the Restoration o Muscles hy means of Nerve Anast.* By Robert Kennedy , M.A. , M.D. , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Prof. J. G. McKendrick , F.R.S. Received April 3 , \#151 ; Read June 1 , 1911 .
) ( Abstract .
) Restoration of voluntary co-ordinated movements after " nerve crossing , " first demonstrated by Flourens , has since been from time to time the subject of investigation .
The conclusions of Flourens have been confirmed by Rawa , Stefani , Howell and Huber , Langley , and myself .
A practical application in surgery was first suggested by Letievant , and within the past 12 years considerable development has taken place in this direction .
During the past two years I have performed about 30 experiments on monkeys and dogs in order to investigate several points from the physiological standpoint .
These experiments fall naturally into three groups .
The first deals with the methods of cross union or anastomosis between the peripheral segment of a divided facial nerve and a suitable motor nerve in the neighbourhood .
The second series of experiments deals with anastomosis in the fore limb of dogs , in order to investigate some aspects of the question not overtaken by previous work on this part of the subject .
The third series deals with the brachial plexus , its functions , and the methods of anastomosis applied to it .
The present communication is confined to an account of experiments with the facial nerve , of which there have been 10 performed .
Of these 10 , 6 were primary anastomosis and 4 secondary anastomosis , that is to say , in 6 the facial was cut , and its peripheral segment immediately anastomosed with the central segment of the substitute nerve , while in 4 the facial was cut , and left unattached for a period , precautions to prevent spontaneous reunion being taken , and then at the end of that period re-exposed , and united to the substitute nerve .
Primary Anastomosis .
In the primary anastomoses , two were in monkeys and four in dogs .
Of the two monkeys , in one the facial was cut and attached to the side of the spinal accessory , and in the other it was attached to the side of the hypoglossal nerve .
Voluntary dissociated movements of the face commenced * The expense of this research has been defrayed by a Government Grant from the Royal Society .
76 Dr. R. Kennedy .
Restoration of Paralysed [ Apr. 3r to return in the former in 58 days , and in the latter in 42 days , and each of the animals had complete voluntary closure of the eye at about 100 days .
Of the four dogs , in two the spinal accessory was the substitute nerve , and in two the hypoglossal .
Of the two spino-facial anastomoses , one was an end to side , and one an end to end , and the same variation was practised with the two hypoglosso-facial anastomoses .
The two spino-facial anastomoses commenced to recover voluntary dissociated movements of the face at 105 ( end to side ) and 90 ( end to end ) days respectively , and were almost complete as regards power to close the eye at 116 and 123 days respectively .
The two hypoglosso-facial anastomoses commenced to recover power to close the eye at 55 ( end to side ) and 84 ( end to end ) days respectively , and were very complete as regards closure of the eye at 142 and 107 days respectively .
Association movements of the face , on the normal distribution of the substitute nerve being innervated by the animal , were observed only in two of the experiments , one a spino-facial ( end to side ) in a monkey , and one a hypoglosso-facial ( end to side ) in a dog .
In the latter case , every rapid movement of the tongue as in eating , licking lips , \amp ; c. , was accompanied by a wink .
Secondary Anastomosis .
The secondary anastomosis experiments were performed in one monkey and three dogs .
The monkey had spino-facial anastomosis ( end to end ) performed one month after section of the facial , and commenced to recover power to close the eye by means of the orbicularis at 46 days , and there was good reflex closure of the eye at 65 days .
In the three dogs the facial nerve was cut close to the stylo-mastoid foramen and precautions taken to prevent reunion , and anastomosis performed aftor the lapse of one month in two of the dogs , and after 100 days in the remaining dog .
Of the two in which the interval of one month had elapsed , in one , a spino-facial ( end to end ) anastomosis , no recovery of voluntary function had taken place at 69 days , when the animal died .
In the other in which a month 's interval had elapsed , a hypoglosso-facial ( end to end ) anastomosis , voluntary dissociated closure of the eye commenced to return at 60 days and was complete at 93 days .
In the dog in which 100 days elapsed before substitution , an end to end spino-facial anastomosis was performed , and voluntary closure of the eye commenced to return at 124 and was complete by 167 days .
In every case except two , a physiological examination was made , and 1911.1 Muscles by means of Nerve Anastomosis .
proved that the recovery of movements which had taken place in the face was wholly due to impulses reaching the face vid the substitute nerve .
In both cases in which the examination was not made before death the animals died unexpectedly .
In one of these no voluntary function had returned \lt ; dog ) , and in the other , in which restoration had taken place ( monkey ) , the post-mortem examination showed that there had been no reunion with the central end of the facial , as the stylo-mastoid foramen was found completely obliterated by a bone plug which had been hammered into it at the operation .
As an Addendum , reports of two cases of spino-facial anastomosis are given .
The first is a report twelve years after the operation , performed in a woman , and published in the 'Philosophical Transactions ' in 1901 , in order to show the ultimate result .
The second is a report of a case of facial paralysis of three years ' standing , in which spino-facial anastomosis was performed , and in which recovery commenced about three years after the operation .
The following general conclusions follow from the observations which are fully recorded in the paper :\#151 ; 1 .
In any case of facial paralysis due to division or compression of the facial nerve , the best procedure , should spontaneous recovery fail , or be deemed impossible , is to attempt restoration of the damaged nerve .
2 .
Should efficient restoration of the nerve be impossible or be deemed impossible , anastomosis with the spinal accessory or hypoglossal holds out the most favourable prospects of recovery , given that the facial muscles are still recoverable from the point of view of duration of complete severance from the nutritive influence of the central nervous system .
3 .
Of the two substitutes , spinal accessory and hypoglossal , when the latter is used the restoration appears to commence sooner , but there does not seem to be a great difference in the ultimate result of the two substitutes , as far as the recovery of the face is concerned .
4 .
Of the new paralysis produced as a result of cutting the substitute nerve that which is produced when the spinal accessory is cut is much less objectionable than that produced when the hypoglossal is cut , and when the paralysis is to be left as a permanent defect , namely , when the peripheral segment of the substitute nerve is to be left unattached , the hypoglossal paralysis is not justifiable .
5 .
When , in consequence of the anastomosis , association movements are present in addition to voluntary co-ordinated and dissociated movements , these associated movements give no trouble and are not noticeable with ordinary movements when the spinal accessory has been used , but , if present , 78 Restoration of Paralysed Muscles by Nerve may be most objectionable and noticeable with ordinary movements when the hypoglossal has been used .
6 .
As regards the interval during which the paralysis has lasted before anastomosis has been performed , there appears to be no difference in the date of commencing recovery and ultimate result , whether anastomosis immediately follows section of the facial , or whether one month 's interval at least is allowed to elapse before the anastomosis is performed after the facial has been cut .
7 .
The only way to make an efficient union between two nerves is completely to cut across all the nerve fibres in both nerves ; methods such as Manasse 's , designed to maintain the integrity of the nerve fibres , give inefficient unions .
8 .
In the course of recovery of independent voluntary co-ordinated movements , the orbicularis palpebrarum is first to exhibit recovery , and usually is the muscle which recovers best , and in no case has a perfect recovery in the movements of the face been proved to take place .
9 .
Reunion of the facial nerve is to be preferred to restoration by means of an anastomosis , as the latter involves interference with the distribution of another nerve , and association movements are sometimes troublesome .
10 .
The distribution of the facial nerve is , in dogs and monkeys , limited to its own side of the face , and recoveries cannot therefore be attributed to a supply from the opposite facial .
11 .
The distal segment of the divided facial , except for a short period immediately following division , on being irritated gives no response in the muscles , if no connections at a subsequent date have been made with the centres , either through its own central segment or by some other path , and , conversely , the occurrence of muscular responses on irritating the peripheral segment is proof that such connections have been established .

