400 Cytological Features of Ferti , in Pinus silvestg " On the Cytological Features of Fertilisation and rel\amp ; !( ] Phenomena in Pinus , L. " By Vernon 1 Blackman , B.A. , F.L.S. , Hutchinson Student , St. Jolj 's College , Cambridge , and Assistant , Department of Botay , British Museum .
Communicated by Francis Dar\n F.R.S. Received May 3 , \#151 ; Read May 26 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) This paper gives a fairly complete account of the minute cytologal details of the act of fertilisation and of the processes surrounding^ from the formation of the ventral canal cell up to the period of ct wall formation at the base of the egg .
As the oosphere nucleus , after separation of the nucleus of o ventral canal cell , moves rapidly back towards the centre of the es- ?
it increases greatly in size , as described by Strasburger .
Ts increase in size is shown to be due to the appearance in the nucks of a peculiar metaplasmic substance , which fills up the nucleus , ai , owing to its attraction for stains , ultimately obscures the chroma ! .
The mature female nucleus , which is sometimes large enough to 3 visible to the naked eye , exhibits merely an uniformly staining retit-lum composed chiefly of metaplasmic substance , with one or me nucleoli .
By the rupture of the closing membrane of the well-marked p at the apex of the pollen tube , almost the whole of the contents jt the lower part of the tube pass over into the oosphere .
At tk stage all the four nuclei , together with a considerable number2 starch grains from the pollen tube , are to be seen lying in the cyt* plasm of the egg .
Cytoplasm from the pollen tube must ai* necessarily pass over , and with it the plastid-like structures to J seen earlier in the cytoplasm of the generative cells .
The behaviour of the four nuclei in the egg was carefully follower the stalk cell nucleus , the pollen tube nucleus , and one generati nucleus remain at the apex of the egg , near the point of entry , ai ultimately become disorganised .
The other generative nuclei !
which possesses distinct nucleoli , as does also its sister nuclei !
advances very rapidly towards the female nucleus , increasing son what in size and in mass of staining material on its way .
Afti coming in contact with the much larger female nucleus it gradual penetrates the substance of the latter until it is almost complete !
enclosed within it , but breaking down of the nuclear walls , thati actual fusion , is for some time delayed .
After fusion has take place , but while the outlines of the two nuclei are still distinc the chromosomes can be distinguished as two separate groups derive Experiments on Aneroid Barometers and their Discussion .
401 ifQ the male and female nuclei respectively .
Indications of the ( i * , segmentation spindle are also to be observed at this stage as staining threads running throughout both nuclei .
No definite citing fertilised nucleus is formed .
Phe spindle , which lies obliquely in the centre of the egg , is at ft multipolar in form , and while it is in this condition the chromo-*ies begin to split longitudinally , but can still be distinguished t ghly into two groups .
)my after the formation of four segmentation nuclei do these hrin to wander down to the base of the egg .
On its way down t h nucleus has a distinct sheath of cytoplasmic fibres , but when it robes the base these become replaced by fine cytoplasmic threads , rich run from the nucleus out into the general cytoplasm .
These ier-formed cytoplasmic threads seem to be connected with the for-ution of cell walls around the nuclei .
The number of chromosomes in the egg nucleus was determined cl counting them in the division which cuts off the ventral canal cl , and was found to be twelve .
The same number was also to be find in the nuclei of the cells of the prothallial tissue and of the illen mother cells .
The chromosomes of the first segmentation t.ndle , on the one occasion on which they could be counted , were tftctly twenty-four in number .
The chromosomes were also counted ]several types of sporophytic tissue ; at least twenty-one ebromo-imes could always be observed ; presumably twenty-four are always esent .
\gt ; No centrospheres or centrosomes were to be seen in connection iher with fertilisation or with any of the related processes .
Experiments on Aneroid Barometers at Kew Observatory and their Discussion .
" By C. Chree , Sc. D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Superintendent .
Received May 5 , \#151 ; Read June 9 , 1898 .
'ommunicated by the Author at the request of the Kew Observatory Committee .
) ( Abstract .
) The paper deals with two species of data .
The first consists of articulars derived from the records at Kew Observatory as to errors observed in about 300 aneroid barometers .
These had been xbjected to the ordinary Kew test , which consists in lowering the ressure to which the aneroid is exposed inch by inch to the lowest oint at which verification is desired , and raising the pressure in a ?
vresponding way to its original value .
Readings are taken at I ach inch of pressure during both the fall and the recovery , and a able of corrections is obtained by reference to the corresponding eadings of a mercury gauge .

