]\gt ; lower order .
a The leakage through air spaces in a magnetic shield has been studied , and found to be more important than is usually supposed .
Although plarisation of the shells still exists to a small extent , it is not of sufficient magnitude to affect any of the conclusions which have been reached .
The leakage field can , in fact , be completely isolated from other fields .
4 .
It is now possible to examine the behaviour of iron under practically no magnetic force .
The Period of a Resonator with Circular Aperture .
By F. PURYER WHITE , St. John 's College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.R.S. Received June 23 , 1916 .
) In a paper on\ldquo ; The Theory of the Helmholtz Resonator , Lord Rayleigh has carried the determination of the wave-length of the fundamental aerial vibration a spherioal vessel with a small circular perforation to a second approximation , obtaining the result .
, ( 1 ) where is the radius of the sphere , the small radius of the aperture , and the volume of the sphere .
To obtain this value he assumes a form for the velooity over the apertureand adjusts it so as to lead to agreement , to a corresponding approximation , in the values of the velocity potential derived therebom over the agerture inside and outside , so to provide for which replaces ( 19 ) and ( 23 ) .
We shall retain terms in , which occur only in ( 2 ) above and in which is used in place of ( 22 ) .
The effect of these small corrections on the velocity potential is to change the term in the external value ( 24 ) to and to add a term ; the internal value remains unchanged .
On pp. 270-1 , the determination of the constant in equation ( 34 ) may be at first sight not entirely convincing .
We can verify as follows:\mdash ; This formula , although erfi lie , the Now the approximate result shows that is at most of the same order as ; hence neglecting terms of higher order than ( out ) .
( 5 ) We have .
Hence Lord Rayleigh approximates to these series and obtains ( p. 271 ) the value Thusthe ooefficient of in ( 5 ) above is being the angle POA , and the second integral is , ( 9 ) * wheoe is given by i.e. .
( 10 ) The integral is thus .
( 11 ) The third integral is is proportional to the constant potential of the bowl , and in fact , from tb result in the electrostatic problem as given in Maxwell , is equal to Thus , to the order required , , using ( 11 ) .
Hence neglecting terms of higher order than ( 13 ) This result has been verified by actual integration , but the work is somewhat long .
Collecting up our results , the integral ( 7 ) gives This is to be zero , as far as terms of order ( kc)6 , which gives .
( 15 ) Equation ( 15 ) is to hold for all values of , hence , and From this , using only the first three terms , and neglecting , we get , which is Lord Rayleigh 's approximation .
Substituting this in ( 16 ) , We get , as far as Also we have .
( 20 ) .
If , the amplitude of vibration is reduced in one period in the ratio In this case .
( 21 ) On SOme Determinations of the Sign and Magnitude of Electric Discharges in Lightning By C. T. R. WILSON , M.A. , F.R.S. , Observer in Meteorological Physics at the Solar Physics Observatory , Cambridge .
( Received June 3 , 1916 .
) The sign and magnitude of the electric charges transferred from the atmosphere to the earth in lightning flashes are of interest , not only in themselves , but also as having to be taken into account in any attempt test whether there is a balance in the interchange of electrical charges lxtween the atmosphere and the surface of the earth .
As is well known , the evidence at present available appears to show that on the whole an

