600 Studies on Enzyme Action .
VIII.\#151 ; The Mechanism Fermentation .
By Edward Frankland Armstrong , Ph. D. , D.Sc .
, Salters ' Company 's Research Fellow , Chemical Department , City and Guilds of London Institute , Central Technical College .
( Communicated by Professor H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. Received July 29 , 1905 .
) [ International Catalogue of Scientific Literature .
Author 's title slip :\#151 ; D. Q. R. Subject slips:\#151 ; D 1800 Fermentation of carbohydrates by various yeasts .
D 7090 Fermentation .
Mechanism of alcoholic D 8020 Alcoholic fermentation .
Mechanism of Q 0235 Yeasts , various , action of , on carbohydrates .
Q 1240 Fermentation of sugars by various yeasts .
Mechanism of R. 1820 Yeasts , various , action of , on carbohydrates .
] In view of the suggestion which has been made* that the mechanism of fermentation is , perhaps , to be correlated with that whereby the enzymes effect hydrolysis , it is of importance to ascertain , if possible , the manner in which the activity of the various organisms giving rise to alcoholic fermentation is dependent on or influenced by the enzymes which they contain .
The correlation of the activity of an organism with that of its constituent enzymes is of special significance also on the biological side , in connection with the inquiry into the possibility of alterations in the activity of organisms being brought about by changes in their environment .
The only systematic investigation made in this direction is that carried out by E. Fischer , who studied the behaviour of most of the known sugars towards a dozen different " pure " yeasts , cultivated from single cells , which ( excepting S. Marxianus and a milk sugar yeast ) all contained both invertase and maltase .
The conclusion arrived at was that only the four hexoses : glucose , mannose , fructose and galactose are fermentable .
A systematic search through the literature of the subject\#151 ; mostly to be found in bacteriological and brewing journals\#151 ; shows that a large number of isolated observations have been made on the fermentative power of individual yeasts ; as a rule , however , the experiments made by various observers , if not incomplete , have been conducted under more or less different conditions .
Two points stand out prominently : without exception , yeasts which ferment glucose also ferment fructose and mannose in all cases in which their action * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1904 , vol. 73 , 541 .
Studies on Enzyme Action .
on these sugars had been tried ; quite a number of yeasts are described as being without action on galactose .
The evidence available on these two points was sufficient to make it very important to extend the inquiry under uniform conditions , to determine the action of each of the yeasts used on the four hexose sugars above named , as well as to ascertain the nature of the enzymes present in each of the yeasts .
The points borne in mind primarily throughout the investigation were :\#151 ; 1 .
Does every yeast ferment glucose , mannose and fructose equally well ?
2 .
Do all yeasts ferment galactose ?
The experiments were begun in the Carlsberg Laboratory , at Copenhagen , which I visited specially for the purpose last summer ; I desire to take this opportunity of expressing my indebtedness to Professor E. C. Hansen , both for the interest he displayed in the work and for the generosity with which the resources of his laboratory were placed at my disposal .
I have also to thank Dr. Schionning for the manner in which he aided me to master the methods of cultivating and using pure yeasts so successfully elaborated in the Carlsberg Laboratory .
It may fairly be claimed that the yeasts selected represent as wide a range of variation in morphological characters and other respects as possible ; conclusions based on their behaviour can , therefore , be applied in any discussion of the behaviour of the saceharomyces generally .
The following is a list of the yeasts used:\#151 ; * Saccharomyces cer " Carlsberg .
" Thermantitonum .
Schizosaccharomyces Saccharomyces Marxianus .
" exiguus .
Saccharomycodes Ludwigii .
Willia anomala .
" Saturnus .
Schizosaccharomyces Saccharomycopsis capsularis .
" Klocker yeast .
Saccharomyces fragilis .
Torula Kayser .
" Adametz .
Kefir yeast .
Yeast No. 698 .
Saccharomyces apic " " Schweiz .
" mali Duclauxi .
A few words as to the morphological characteristics of these yeasts may be of interest .
S. cerevisice is a typical English top-fermentation yeast , S. Carlsberg is a typical low-temperature bottom-fermentation yeast ; S. Pombe , originally obtained from Africa , exercises its maximum activity at 36 ' , forming much alcohol ; S. Thermantitonum , a yeast recently described by * For the nomenclature adopted , compare Hansen , ' Centralblatt fiir Bakteriologie , ' 1904 , vol. 12 , p. 529 .
Dr. E. F. Armstrong .
[ July 29 , Grove Johnson , * is remarkable on account of its ability to withstand a temperature as high as 83 ' 0 .
, and as being most active at 45 ' ; S. exiguus differs from S. Marxianusin that the latter forms a membranous film ; S. anomalus and S. Saturnus are characterised by the occurrence of both acids and fruit ethers among the products of their fermentative activity .
The other yeasts are characterised by the manner in which they undergo reproduction , as their group names show : the torulse do not form spores ; the schizosaccharomyces multiply by fission ; capsularis forms spores with two enveloping membranes ; and S. ajpiculatus , which is very common on fruits in the late summer and autumn , occurs in very characteristic , small , lemonshaped cells .
The method adopted was as follows : The yeasts , which in nearly all cases had been obtained from the Carls berg Laboratory , were cultivated in beer wort ; subcultures consisting of quite young cells not more than 24 hours old were always used in the actual experiments .
The sugars were highly purifiedf and were used in the form of 10-per-cent , solutions in yeast water .
A single drop of the yeast sediment was introduced into about 10 c.c. of the sterilised sugar solution contained in a Freudenreich flask , with the rigid precautions prescribed by Hansen to ensure sterility .
The solutions weie maintained at 25 ' while under observation .
Up to the present time , the experiments have been made solely with the object of ascertaining whether or no the organisms were able to bring about the fermentation of the various sugars .
In positive cases , the evidence of the occurrence of fermentation afforded by the rapid evolution of small bubbles of gas , especially on shaking , was unmistakable .
Sometimes only a very few bubbles were observed to escape : such a result was regarded either as indicating the presence of traces of impurity or as due to the fermentation of glycogen in the yeast .
In most cases the production of alcohol was confirmed by distillation .
As a rule , the occurrence of fermentation was evident within 24 hours and was very marked within 48 hours .
The present communication is intended to be only a preliminary note ; it is proposed to discuss the full bearing of the results in a subsequent communication in connection with those of other workers and the theories of fermentation .
* ' Journ. Inst. Brewing , ' 1905 , vol. 11 , p. 466 .
t It may be well to point out here that many samples of galactose contain traces of glucose ; in fact , to remove all traces of glucose from commercial galactose , it is necessary to subject it to the action of a yeast such as S. Ludwigii , which ferments glucose readily but is without action on galactose .
1905 .
] Studies on Enzyme Action .
The results which have been obtained are summarised in the following table .
The sign + is used to indicate that a particular sugar is fermented , the sign 0 to indicate that it is not fermented .
Inasmuch as a biose must be hydrolysed before it can be fermented , the ability or the reverse of a yeast to ferment a given biose sugar denotes the presence or absence of the particular enzyme which will hydrolyse the biose ; the signs in the three columns headed maltose , sucrose and lactose respectively may therefore be read as implying the occurrence or absence , as the case may be , of fermentation , as well as the occurrence or absence of a particular enzyme .
Although inability to hydrolyse a biose when it has diffused into the yeast cell would seem to be as severe a test of the absence of the enzyme from the cell contents as it is possible to apply , it has been thought desirable in several cases to grow the yeast in quantity and to prepare an extract from the dried material ; in all such cases the result has been that no enzyme has been proved to be present the absence of which was indicated by the behaviour of the yeast towards the bioses .
Yeast .
Glucose Fructose Mannose Galactose Maltose ( maltase ) .
Sucrose ( invertase ) .
Lactose ( lactase ) .
Yeasts containing maltase and invertase .
Cerevisise + | + 4- t- + + 0 Carlsberg + + + + + + 0 Pombe + + + 0 + + 0 Thermantitonum ... + | + + + + 0 Yeasts containing invertase alone .
Marxianus + + + 4* 0 + 0 Exiguus + + + + 0 + 0 Ludwigii + + + 0 0 l + !
0 Saturnus + + + 0 0 + !
0 Anomalus + 0 0 + 0 Yeasts containing maltase alone .
Octosporus + + + 0 + 0 0 Capsularis + + + + + 0 0 Klocker + o !
+ 0 1 0 Yeasts containing lactase and invertase .
Fragilis + + + + 0 + + Kefir + + + 0 0 + + Kayser + + + 0 0 + + Adametz + + 0 0 + + 698 + + + + 0 + + Yeasts without sucroclastic enzymes .
Apiculatus + + + 0 1 0 0 0 " Schweiz + i + + o 1 0 0 0 Mali Duclauxi* ... + + + ?
0 0 0 * I have not worked with this yeast .
Dr. E. F Armstrong .
[ July 29 , The results recorded in the table allow of a definite answer being given to the two questions propounded in the introduction .
It will be noticed that , without exception , all the twenty typical yeasts tested were able to ferment glucose , mannose and fructose ; and it should be added that they did so , apparently , with equal ease .
But quite a number of the yeasts were incapable of fermenting galactose , including even S. Pombe , which acts very powerfully on glucose .
In this connection it may be mentioned that Dienert* has stated that of 89 yeasts examined by him , all of which fermented glucose , as many as 21 were unable to ferment galactose .
As a rule , galactose was fermented less easily than the three other sugars ; but in this connection it should be mentioned that Mazef has described several yeasts which , he states , ferment galactose more readily than glucose .
Whatever may be the mechanism of alcoholic fermentation , it is beyond doubt that inability to ferment galactose has nothing to do with the absence from the yeast of any one of the sucroclastic enzymes , since yeasts are to be found which are without action on galactose in each of the four classes .
It must therefore be supposed that this sugar is not merely somewhat less readily fermented than the other three sugars but that the process is in itself a distinct one ; that , in fact , the fermentation of glucose and galactose is brought about by different mechanisms .
The power of a yeast to ferment mannose or glucose or fructose is clearly in no way conditioned by the presence of a particular sucroclastic enzyme ; indeed , taking the experiments with S. apiculatus into account , it would seem that the occurrence of alcoholic fermentation is altogether independent of the presence of an enzyme\#151 ; whether free or fixed\#151 ; able to induce the hydrolysis either of maltose or of sucrose .
The same argument is applicable to the fermentation of galactose .
But although it must be concluded that the process of enzymo-hydrolysis and of fermentation are different in some essential respects , it is apparently none the less certain that they are cognate phenomena ; otherwise it would be difficult to understand why it is that the only hexoses to undergo fermentation are those which have been shown to be compatible with the sucroclastic enzymes ( compare No. Ill of these Studies ) .
It is conceivable that the enzyme is potentially present , in a more or less modified form , in the protoplasmic structure of the cell , in a condition in which it can induce fermentation ; and that it is only on liberation from the protoplasmic structure that it assumes sucroclastic functions , whilst , at the same time , it loses its fermentative activity .
* * Ann. Inst. Pasteur/ 1900 , p. 39 .
t Ibid. , 1903 , p. 11 .
1905 .
] Studies on Enzyme Action .
The fact that the three hexoses which behave alike have one common enolic form ( compare No. Ill of these Studies ) is of utmost significance as an indication that the formation of the enol is the initial stage in the fermentation of the hexose and that the breakdown of the molecule commences at the terminal carbon atom .
This conclusion derives support from the fact that the methylglucosides , gluconic acid , ethylic gluconate and similar compounds\#151 ; in which only the groups attached to the terminal carbon atom differ from those in glucose\#151 ; are unfermentable .
The formation of the enol cannot take place without the carbon-oxygen ring undergoing rupture .
It is in this direction perhaps that an explanation will be found of the fact that the bioses cannot be fermented directly or without previously undergoing resolution into the simpler hexoses .
To judge from the behaviour of compounds such as the methylglucosides , it is probable that the conversion of the glucose into a glucoside involves an increase in the stability of the ring structure : perhaps , therefore , the ring structure in the bioses is of sufficient stability to remain unruptured in solution ; in other words , it is possible that , whereas a solution of glucose contains the three isodynamic forms of the compound , viz. , a-glucose , / 3-glucose and the corresponding enol\#151 ; the last being present probably only in small proportion and as the hydrated compound or aldehydrol\#151 ; a solution of a biose such as maltose contains only the two isodynamic forms corresponding to the two glucoses .

