I. " On the Law of Expansion of Superheated Steam .
" By WILLIAM FAInrBAIIN , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and THOMAS TATr , Esq. Received March 20 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) In a former paper selected for the Bakerian Lecture , entitled " 'Experimental Researches to determine the Density of Steam at different Temperatures , and to ascertain the Law of Expansion of Superheated Steam " ( Phil. Trans. 1860 , p. 185 ) , it was shown that although Dumas , Gay-Lussac , and other distinguished physicists had determined the density of steam at 212 ?
, it was , however , left for these researches to ascertain the law of density , volume , &amp;c. at all temperatures , and also the law of expansion of superheated steam .
These experiments have therefore been continued , and have elicited remarkable results as regards the rate of expansion at various temperatures .
The earliest experiments on this subject were made by Mr. Frost in America , but without suflicient accuracy to be of scientific value .
Mir .
Siemens has also experimented on steam isolated from water ; his results give a much higher rate of expansion for steam than for ordinary gases ; but , owing to some obvious defects of Mr. Siemens9s method of conducting the experiments , we consider his results are not reliable .
For gases , the rate of expansion is expressed by the formula for constant volume , P _E+t ~ E+t , ( 1 ) where E is a constant determined by experiment , and decided by Regnault as 459 in the case of air .
In the paper alluded to , it was shown that , with a certain proviso , the rate of expansion of superheated steam nearly coincided with that of air .
Within a short J53 distance of the maximum temperature of saturation the rate of ex , pansion of steam was found to be exceedingly variable ; near the saturation-point it is higher than that of air , and decreases as the temperature is increased , until it becomes sensibly identical with that of air .
The results ulpon which this law was based were too limited in their range for much numerical accuracy in the constants deduced .
Hence it has been our object in the present paper to supply the deficiency in the previous one , by affording experimental data of the expansion of steam at higher temperatures and with a greater range of superheating than was possible with the apparatus employed in ascertaining the density of steam .
The results obtained in these later experiments , however , confirm the general law deduced from the previous ones .
0Ih'1IjI/ I E=E:=A ^1 / / I Thew figur t The figure represents the apparatus used when the pwessure did 54 not exceed that of the atmosphere , consisting of a glass globe ( a ) k3 inches in diameter , and stem 35 inches long ; the capacity was known to a point ( b ) , where a piece of platinum wire was twisted to mark accurately the point at which the mercury column in the stem was to be brought to maintain a constant volume in the globe .
Al 1-inch tube ( d ) , filled with mercury , rested upon the frame ( e e ) .
The weight of the tube and frame was counterbalanced by weights ( w w ) .
By such an adjustment the tube ( d ) could be regulated with facility , preserving the upper level of the mercury column at one uniform ' height .
A cathetometer ( g g ) , with vernier ( h. ) , to read the lower and variable level of the mercury column , was introduced .
To heat the globe , the oil-bath ( k ) was used , fitted to the tube ( t ) by a stuffing-box ( s ) ; the oil-bath is itself immersed in a mercury bath ( 1 ) , surrounded by a coil of jets of gas ( m m ) .
The globe , filled with dry and warm mercury , the air-bubbles being extracted by means of an air-pump , was inverted to form a Torricellian vacuum .
A small glass globule of water was then inserted , the platinum wire fixed in its place , and an india-rubber cap fitted to the extremity of the stem .
Being transferred to its place , and the india-rubber cap replaced by an open glass cistern , so that the glass ( d ) could be elevated to its position , the jets were lighted , and the temperature elevated to 300 ? .
From this point the levels of the column were read off at intervals of 50 ?
until the temperature of saturation was reached .
The levels were taken in a series of descending temperatures , to avoid the influence of steam boiling out of the mercury as the temperature rose , and to eliminate the effect of the cohesion of the glass on the water , as explained in our previous paper on the density of steaim .
Twelve cubic inches of mercury were measured into the globe , and a file-mark made on the stem , below which , at a distance of 14*45 inches , another file-mark was made , affording a fixed point for ascertaining the correspondence of the upper file-mark with the readings on the cathetometer .
Let a be the reading on the fixed rod of the level of the column , b the reading of the lower file-mark on the globe-stem ; then b--a =the height of the column of mercury on the globe-stem .
To correct for temperature , 71inches of mercury , enclosed by the oil-bath and its stuffing-box , were corrected for the temperature of the oil , and the remainder of the column for the temperature of the atmosphere at the time .
By deducting the column so corrected from the reading of the barometer at the time , the total pressure in the globe is obtained .
The readings of the thermometer are corrected for the portion out of the oil-bath .
The pressure of mercurial vapour is calculated from data supplied with great courtesy by M. Regnault , and embodying the results of unpublished experiments .
The pressure of this vapour is assumed to be the same as that in a vacuum , as the vapour in the globe remains still for a sufficient time ( it is believed ) for saturation to take place .
In this view we have been strengthened by M. Regnault 's opinion .
By deducting the pressure of mercury vapour from the total pressure in the globe , the pressure of the steam is obtained .
On referring to the experiments contained in the paper , it will be seen that the law of expansion of gaseous bodies is expressed by the formula E+ t P'V o _= P'Vt --P , Vt E+ t1 P 'v P , V , PV where E is a constant .
Taking Regnault 's constant 459 as the rate of expansion of air for constant volumes , a remarkable coincidence will be observed in the experiments contained in the paper when reduced to the same standard of value .
The values of E thus deduced have been placed in the last column of the calculated experiments .
They show a decreasing rate of expansion from the saturation-point upwards , until at no great increase of temperature the rate of expansion coincides with that of a perfect gas .
Taking from the Tables the two results , which in each instance represent the case of expansion at the greatest distance from the saturation-point , we have the following values of E:E = ( 1 ) 474-48 ( 3 ) 466-85 ( 5 ) 460-28 450-11 45194 ( 2 ) 455-57 ( 4 ) 464 ?
83 443-86 460-49 Mean value of E deduced from these numbers =458-74 .
Hence the conclusion which we suggested in our previous paper has been satisfactorily demonstrated by a more extended series of experiments , and the rate of expansion of superheated steam is shown to be almost identical with that of air and other permanent 56

