" On the Temperature of some Fishes of the Genus Thunnus .
" By John Davy , M.D. , F.R.S. , Assistant Inspector of Army Hospitals .
The author had occasion to observe , many years ago , that the Bonito ( Thynnus pelamys , Cuv .
) had a temperature of 99 ?
of Fahr. when the surrounding medium was80ยง 5 , and that it , therefore , constituted an exception to the generally received rule that fishes are universally coldblooded .
Having foundthatthe gills of the commonThunny of the Medi ?
terranean ( Thynnus vulgaris , Cuv .
) were supplied with nerves of unusual magnitude , that the heart of this latter fish was very powerful , and that its muscles were of a dark red colour , he was led to conjec ?
ture that it might , like the Bonito , be also warm-blooded ; and this opinion is corroborated by the testimony of several intelligent fishermen .
The author endeavours to extend this analogy to other species of the same family , which , according to the reports of the fishermen of whom he made inquiries , have a high temperature , and in whose internal structure he noticed similar peculiarities as in the Thunny ; namely , very large branchial nerves , furnished with ganglia of considerable size .
In this respect he considers that in these fishes the branchial system of organs makes an approximation to the respiratory apparatus of the Mammalia , and that it probably contributes to the elevation of temperature , resulting from the more energetic respira ?
tion which he supposes to be exercised by these organs .
He , however , thinks it not improbable that these fish may possess means of generating heat peculiar to themselves , and of which at present we have no adequate idea .
He conceives that the situation of the kid ?
neys , of which a considerable portion is even higher than the stomach , and posterior to the gills , and which are of large size , and well sup ?
plied with nerves and blood-vessels , may possibly act a part in the production of an elevated temperature ; but , on the whole , he is disposed to ascribe the greatest share of this effect to the superior mag ?
nitude of the branchial nerves .

