186 Candidates for Election .
[ Mar. 5 , March 5 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Chairman mentioned that Professor Fowler , President of Corpus Christi College , Oxford , had , on the part of the subscribers to the Henry Smith Memorial , offered to the Society a replica in marble of the bust of the lamented H. Smith ; that the Council had accepted the offer , and that the bust could be seen in the anteroom .
The thanks of the Society were given to the donors .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\#151 ; Atkinson , Prof. Edmund , Ph. D. Baird , Major A. W. , R.E Bidwell , Shelford , M.A. Boys , Charles Vernon , A.R.S.M. Buchanan , John Young , M.A. Burdett , Henry Charles , F.L.S. Buzzard , Thomas , M.D. Carpenter , Philip Herbert , D.Sc .
Cash , J. Theodore , M.D. Clark , Sir Andrew , Bart. , M.D. Claudet , Frederic .
Common , A. Ainslie , F.R.A.S. Conroy , Sir John , Bart. , M.A. Creak , Ettrick William , Staff Commander R.N. Cunningham , Allan Joseph Champ-neys , Major R.E. Davis , James William , F.G.S. Divers , Professor Edward , M.D. Douglass , Sir James Nicholas .
Ewart , Professor J. Cossar , M.D. Festing , Edward Robert , Colonel R.E. Forbes , Professor George , M.A. Galloway , William .
Goodeve , Professor Thomas Min-chin , M.A. Hicks , Henry , M.D. Hicks , Professor W. M. , M.A. Japp , F. R. , Ph. D. Jervois , Sir William Francis Drummond , Lieut.-Gen .
R.E. Kennedy , Professor Alexander Blackie , M.I.C.E. Latham , Peter Wallwork , M.D. Lewis , Timothy Richards , M.B. , Surgeon-Major A.M.D. Lyster , George Fosbery , M.I.C.E. MacGillivray , Paul Howard , M.A. Manson , Patrick , M.D. Marshall , Prof. ' A. Milnes , M.D. Martin , Prof. Henry Newell , D.Sc .
Maw , George , F.L.S. Meldola , Raphael , F.RA .
S. Milne , Professor John , F.G.S. Moxon , Walter , M.D. Muir , M. M. Pattison , M.A. Nobel , Alfred .
1885 .
] Uric Acid Crystals from Astacus fluviatilis .
187 O'Sullivan , Cornelius .
Perry , Professor John .
Pickard-Cambridge , Rev. Octavius , M.A. Pogson , Norman , C.I.E. Pritchard , Urban , M.D. Rye-Smith , Philip H. , M.D. Ringer , Professor Sydney , M.D. Rodwell , George F. , F.R.A.S. Sanders , Alfred , F.L.S. Snelus , George James , F.C.S. Stevenson , Thomas , M.D. Tate , Professor Ralph , F.G.S. Tidy , Professor Charles Meymott , M.B. Tonge , Morris , M.D. Tribe , Alfred , F.C.S. Ulrich , Professor George Henry Frederic , F.G.S. Unwin , Professor W. Cawthorne , B.Sc. Vines , Sidney H. , D.Sc .
Warington , Robert , F.C.S. Wharton , William James Lloyd , Captain R.N. The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Extraction of Uric Acid Crystals from the Green Gland of Astacus Jluviatilis .
" By A. B. Griffiths , Ph. D. , F.C.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry and Physics , Technical College , Manchester .
Communicated by Sir Richard Owen , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , D.C.L. Received February 6 , 1885 .
The so-called green glands of the fresh water crayfish lie in the cavity of the head below the front part of the cardiac division of the stomach .
The openings of these organs are to be found at the base of each antenna .
The organ carefully dissected out of the head of a freshly killed crayfish is seen to consist of two principal parts : an uppermost one which is a transparent and delicate sac-like body filled with a clear fluid , and an underlying portion of a green colour , glandular in appearance , containing granular cells .
In 1848 Professors Will and Gorup-Besanez ( see " Miinchen Gelehrte Anzeigen , " No. 233 , 1848 ) said that this organ probably contained guanin , and from this supposition this green gland has been considered as a secretory organ .
The secretion of this gland is acid to litmus-paper , and on treating the secretions obtained from a large number of green glands with hot dilute sodium hydrate solution , and then adding hydrochloric acid , a slight flaky precipitate was obtained , and on examining these flakes under the microscope they were seen to consist of small crystals in rhombic plates .
On treating the secretion with alcohol , these rhombic crystals are deposited ; they are soluble in boiling water .
When these crystals are precipitated from the ' secretion and moistened with dilute nitric acid , alloxanthine ( C8H4N407 ) is produced , and on heating this body gently with ammonia , reddish-purple murexide , or the " ammonium purpurate " ( C8H4(NH4)N506 ) of Prout 188 Uric Acid Crystals from Astacus fluviatilis .
[ Mar. 51 is obtained .
This murexide so obtained crystallises in prisms , which by reflected light exhibit a splendid green metallic lustre , and by transmitted light are a deep reddish-purple .
On running in a solution of potassium hydrate upon a microscopic slide containing some of these murexide crystals they were dissolved ' From these reactions it is evident that these rhombic crystals are deposits of uric acid ( C5H4lSr403 ) from the secretion of the green gland of the crayfish .
On examining the uric acid crystals ( deposited from the secretion by means of alcohol ) under the microscope , they are seen to be covered more or less with a very thin and superficial coating of some brown colouring matter , probably some pigment .
But , beyond this discovery of uric acid in the secretion of the green gland of Astacus fluviatilis , I have found that on treating the secretion with boiling hydrochloric acid a solution was obtained containing in suspension flaky uric acid which was filtered off , and on allowing the filtrate to cool a few crystals ( guanin hydrochlorate ) separate which are soluble in hot water , and on the addition of ammonia to this hot aqueous solution a precipitate is obtained of guanin ( C5H5N50 ) , the precipitated guanin being made up of numbers of minute microscopic crystals .
On running in warm dilute nitric acid ( upon the slide ) these crystals disappeared , but were precipitated again on adding a drop of silver nitrate in the form of the nitrate of silver compound ( C5H5N50 , AgN08 ) of guanin .
I think this investigation proves that this so-called green gland of Astacus fluviatilis is a true urinary organ , its secretion containing uric acid and very small traces of the base guanin : the green gland is , therefore , physiologically the kidney of the animal .
II .
" On the Atomic Weight of Glucinum ( Beryllium ) .
Second Paper .
" By T. S. Humpidge , Ph. D. , B.Sc. , Professor of Chemistry in the University College of Wales , Aberystwyth .
Communicated by Prof. E. Frankland , F.R.S. Received February 27 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is a continuation of one previously communicated to the Royal Society.* The author has prepared a sample of metallic glucinum , having the composition\#151 ; * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 35 , p. 137 .

