The following papers were read : 1 .
" Further Experiments and Observations on the Properties of Light .
" By Lord Brougham , F.R.S. , Member of the Institute of France .
Received May 9 , 1853 .
1 .
The author considers that Sir Isaac Newton 's experiments to prove that the fringes formed by inflexion and bordering the shadows of all bodies , are of different breadths when formed by the homogeneous rays of different kinds , are the foundation of his theory , and would be perfectly conclusive if the different rays were equally bent out of their course by inflexion , for in that case the line joining the centres of the fringes on opposite sides of the shadow being , as he found them , of different lengths , the fringes must be of different breadths .
He found that line to be I31 inch in the red , in the violet of the nearest fringe ; e ; in the red , -I in the violet of the second fringe ; and these proportions he found to be the same at all distances of the chart from the hair .
But if the rays are of different flexibility , if the red , for example , is bent to a greater distance from its course than the violet , the experiment becomes wholly inconclusive ; and the line joining the centres may be greater in the red than in the violet , although the breadths of the two fringes are equal , or even though the violet fringe may be broader than the red .
2 .
A variety of experiments are adduced in the paper to show that this property of different flexibility exists , which Sir I. Newton had not remarked .
These experiments are either made with two bodies acting jointly on the rays , or with a single body so acting .
3 .
When made with two bodies , as sharp edges , these edges must be perfectly parallel , and when placed in the axis of the prismatic spectrum they form fringes more distant in the red than in any other part ; least distant in the violet .
The fringes are both broadest in the least refrangible rays and most removed ; narrowest and least removed in the most refrangible .
They incline from the red towards the violet .
4 .
The same experiment is easily made with a lamp or candle , placing a prism between the flame arid the edges .
This renders that exact parallelism of the edges which is required in the experiment with the spectrum , comparatively immaterial ; because a considerable inclination of the edges , as at an angle of half a degree or more , does not affect the action on the rays in the very small space through which they pass by the edges .
5 .
With a single edge , or other body as a hair , the same difference in the position , as well as in the breadth of the fringes , is found to be observable , though not so manifestly as when two act together on the light .
The manner of making the observation most conveniently is pointed out .
6 .
These experiments are varied so as to show the various distensions of the disc of a flame subjected to flexion between two edges , according as we regard the various portions of the flame 's spectrum when seen by the prism .
The red part is broadest , and when the near approach of the edges to each other divides the disc into two with a dark interval between them , that interval is the broadest in the least refrangible rays .
7 .
The experiments are further varied by using coloured glass instead of refracting with a prism .
8 .
The same phenomena are found to exist in all the other cases of flexion as where it is combined with reflexion by the action of specula , or by the effect of striated surfaces .
There is always the same difference in the effects produced by the different kinds of homogeneous light .
9 .
The same phenomena are not so easily observed in the internal fringes , or those of the shadow ; but the dark gray line in the axis of the shadow , having a line of deep black on each side , is found to vary in breadth and position in the different parts of its length corresponding to the colours of the spectrum , when a needle or other small body is placed in that spectrum .
10 .
The angle of inflexion is shown to be obtained by taking the distance at which the internal fringes begin to appear ; and the proportion of this angle in the red to the same angle in the violet is ascertained .
The deflexion ( as deduced from Sir I. Newton 's experiments ) is much greater than inflexion appears to be .
He had not observed the internal fringes of Grimaldi , to whom , however , he refers .
11 .
The author states that the property in question , the different flexibility of light , coexists with the other property , whatever it may be , which disposes the different rays in fringes of different breadths .
; but he considers that the two properties are wholly independent of each other .
12 .
He thinks there is reason to believe that theark intervals between the fringes made in white light are only the dark tint of the adjoining friinges , of which the red of one runs into , the yiolet of tlde other , The greatest care in repeating Sir I , .
Newton ' , s experiment , wi the same distances and sizes both of the body and the beam : leaves little or no doubt of the fringes running into each other .
Iq homogeneous light it is otherwise ; and there appear in that case to be the intervals , as might be 'expected from the different flexibility of the different rays ... 13 .
The fringes made in homogeneous light have aconsiderable admixture of colours from the scattered rays ; so : have the small spectra by refraction made when a second prism is placed behind a small hole in the screen , through which hole the rays , of the spectrum imade by the first prism are successively passed .
14 .
The phenomena of flexion by bodies placed in the portion of the spectrum near the prism , and therefore white , are stated to be not easily accounted for in any received theory .
1o .
The Newtonian hypothesis of the different breadths of the fringes being caused by the action of flexion extending to different distances over the different rays , is stated to be insufficient to account for it , and also to account for the different colours in the fringes to be made by white light .
It is considered that the different flexibility will account for the latter , but not for the different breadths of the fringes , without another hypothesis , namely , the differeint ratio of the force to the distance from the bending body , in different rays .
16 .
The entire difference of flexion and refraction is shown from the different breadths of the fringes , and from their formation upon any possible hypothesis being shown to have nothing similar or analogous in the phenomena of refraction , though the different flexibility is preo cisely similar to the different refrangibility , only applicable : inversely to the different rays .
17 .
The relation of the doctrine of interference to the phenomena of flexion is considered ; and it is shown that certain of these phenomena are at variance with the doctrine .
This is particularly ex* emplified in the case of the phenomena observed where bodies acting on light are not placed directly opposite to each other , but one behind the other .
18 .
The same phenomena are adduced to disprove M. Fresnel 's hypothesis , that the phenomena of flexion ( termed by him diffraction ) depend entirely on the size of the aperture:through which the light enters .
Three experiments are adduced in disproof of this ; the first made on the aperture when the edges are directly opposite each other ; the second , when the edges are moved to different distances from each other on a line exactly parallel to the rays ; the third , when the edges are moved on a line at any inclination to the rays .
In both the second.and third experiment , the vertical distance of the edges ( i. e the aperture ) being the iane , the breadth : as well as the separation of the fringes is found to vary with the distance of the edges from each other horizontally , or in the direction of the rays .

