375 .
] Stratification in Electrical Discharges in vacuo .
361 icondary wire of the coil too feeble to produce any illumination .
Pending ie further development of our investigation , we have ventured to give an :count of our progress in elucidating some points in the theory of the tcuum-discharge , without any wish to ascribe to our results more weight an they deserve .
Fig. 4 .
Vs Batteries of this description may be had from Messrs. Tisley and 'piller , Brompton Road .
Their cost , in large numbers , is about one tilling per cell , exclusive of the charge of chloride of silver , which costs bout two shillings per cell .
The latter , either in the form of powder r of rods cast upon flattened silver wire , may be obtained from Messrs , ohnson and Matthey , Hatton Garden .
When the battery is exhausted be reduced silver may be readily reconverted into chloride , with scarcely ay loss .
April 15 , 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for bem .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; or .
xxiii .
2 E Mr. C. S. Tomes on the [ Apr. If I. " On the Development of the Teeth of Fishes ( Elasmobranch and Teleostei ) " By Charles S. Tomes , M.A. Communicate by John Tomes , F.R.S. Received March 1 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) It has usually been supposed that the whole process of the develot ment of the teeth in many fish might be taken to represent the earli\#187 ; stages alone of the process as it is seen in man ; this opinion is forcib ] expressed by Professor Owen , who , for example , says of the shark " Here is represented the first and transitory papillary stage of dent development in mammals ; and the simple cartilaginous maxillary plat with the open groove behind containing the germinal papillae of the teetl offers , in the shark , a magnified representation of the earliest condition \lt ; the jaws and teeth of the human embryo .
" With this opinion , already objected to by Professor Huxley , I cannc concur ; still less can I concur with the statement that " in all fish tl first step is the simple production of a soft vascular papilla from the frt surface of the buccal membrane .
" The supposed open groove behind the jaws of cartilaginous fish is i reality closed ; that is to say , the epithelium of the jaw passes contini ously across on to the thecal fold of mucous membrane which lies fc\lt ; hind the jaw and protects the developing teeth ; and , if the groove 1 opened , it is by the tearing through of this epithelium .
Hear to the base of the jaw , the mucous membrane is cellular an dentine-organs are formed by its elevation into conical papillae , withoi apparent structural change ; but , higher up , the dentine-papillae assure their characteristic fofms and structure , and the residuum of the mucoi membrane at their bases becomes transformed into a fibrillated tissue .
As the teeth become yet more advanced , the fibrillated tissue at the : bases becomes specially arranged with reference to the base of each toot !
so as to form , in some sense , ligaments to bind it firmly in its place .
Just as the mucous membrane of the exposed surface of the jaw i covered by its epithelium , so the dentine-papillae are covered by theirs in the latter* place , however , it has undergone a special development , which entitles it to the name of an " enamel-organ .
" As was originally point out by Professor Huxley , enamel-organs are but modified epithelium .
The dentine-papillae are processes arising from a continuous sheet c mucous membrane ; the enamel-organs also are continuous with on another , attaining to a special development where they serve as caps to tb several dentine-papillae ; the arrangement of these enamel-organs suggest a resemblance to the corresponding structures described by me as existin in the newt and in certain reptiles .
Enamel is present in noteworthy thickness in some Elasmobranchiat fish ; it is absent , or almost so , in others ; but enamel-organs are presen in all .
The enamel-organs consist , on the surfaces directed towards th 875.1 Development of the Teeth of Fishes .
363 ientine-papillse , of a well-marked columnar epithelium ( enamel-cells ) ; and , ehind this layer , of a sort of finely fibrous tissue with branched cells , not , iowever , resembling that known as the reticulum in mammalian enamel-irgans .
In young specimens , before the continuity of the two structures is nterrupted by the presence of a lip , the homological identity of the teeth , nd the dermal spines is well seen , the one passing into the other in an mbroken series ; the teeth , however , even at an early period , attain to a auch larger size than the contiguous dermal spines .
Amongst osseous fish , my observations have been principally made upon he perch , pike , eel , haddock , cod , mackerel , and herring .
Allowing for differences of detail , which must necessarily result from he varying configuration of the jaws , \amp ; c. , the process is identical in all he fish which I have examined , and is similar to that which I have ibserved in reptiles .
From the oral epithelium there dips down a process , the terminal end \gt ; f which becomes transformed into an enamel-organ , the contiguous sub-acent tissue coincidently becoming developed into a dentine-papilla .
I have seen nothing which could be called a " free papillaand it is my onviction that free papillae at no time exist in any animal ; but it is pos-ible that Professor Owen 's statement , that " in all fishes the first step is he simple production of a soft vascular papilla from the free surface of " he buccal membrane , " may have been based upon appearances such as .re met with in the haddock , in which fish ( in certain situations ) the issues surrounding , and lying over , the forming tooth-sac do become elevated , so that on the surface there is a papilliform eminence ; this , how-ver , is quite external to the real dentine-papilla , and is altogether ixtraneous to the tooth-sac , which does not make up one fourth of its bulk .
The distance from the surface at which the formation of the tooth-ac takes place seems to be variable , differing even in the same fish in lifferent situations .
The enamel-organs of the eel and perch are peculiar , consisting mainly \gt ; f the layer of " enamel-cellsover the apex of the tooth these enamel-iells are three times as large as over its sides , the transition from cells of 'he one size to the other being abrupt , and not gradual .
Their teeth are surmounted by terminal caps of enamel , like those of the iewts and salamanders , or those figured by Professor Owen upon the eeth of " Gancicrodus , " a new genus founded upon this solitary cha-acter .
enamel is absent from the sides of the teeth , or , if present , is in so thin a layer as to be difficult to detect with certainty .
Thus the one part of the enamel-organ appears to exercise an active -unction , the remainder to be rudimentary ; and the position of the enamel-3ells of large size coinciding with the distribution of the enamel , is , so far as it goes , evidence in favour of the hypothesis of the formation of enamel by direct conversion of the cells .
364 Mr. T. E. Thorpe on the [ Apr. 15 Prof. Huxley first correctly determined the homologies of the enamel-organ and the dentine-papilla , referring the first to the epithelium , th\lt ; latter to the derm ; the follicle , however , where it exists at all , 1 regard as mainly a secondary development from that region of the derm which formed the base of the dentine-germ .
Observations upon many mammals , reptiles , and fishes lead me tc the following general conclusions as to the development of teeth:\#151 ; ( i. ) All tooth-germs whatever consist , in the first instance , of tw\lt ; parts , and two alone\#151 ; the dentine-papilla and the enamel-organ .
( ii .
) The existence of an enamel-organ is wholly independent of th\lt ; presence or absence of enamel upon the teeth ; examples of this have \lt ; been recorded by Professor Turner and by myself among mammalia and by myself among reptiles and fishes .
( iii .
) Nothing justifies the arbitrary division into " papillary , " " folli cular , " and " eruptive " stages ; nor does any open primitive dental groove or fissure , exist in any animal examined .
( iv .
) In all cases , an active ingrowth of a process of the oral epi thelium , dipping inwards into solid tissue , is the first thing distinguish able ; although the formation of a dentine-papilla , opposite to its deepes ' extremity , goes on pari passu with the development of its csecal end int( an enamel-organ .
( v. ) A special capsule , or follicle , to the tooth-germ may or may not be present ; when present , it is , in part , a secondary development frou the base of the dentine-papilla , in part , a mere condensation of surrounding tissue .
II .
" Researches upon the Specific Volumes of Liquids .
" By T E. Thorpe .
Communicated by Prof. Williamson , For .
Sec , R.S. Received March 2 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) I. On the Atomic Value of Phosphorus , Hermann Kopp has shown that , as a rule , the specific volume of an element is invariable when in combination .
Exceptions to the law occur , however , in the cases of oxygen and sulphur , each of which bodies has two specific volumes dependent upon the manner in which they are held in union .
When contained " within the radicle , " as in acetyl , C2H30 , oxygen has the value 12'2 , but when existing " without the radicle , " as in alcohol , it has the smaller value , 7*8 .
Sulphur , when " within the radicle , " has the specific volume 28*6 ; when " without the radicle , " it has the specific volume 22'6 .
The cause of these variations may be thus stated in the language of modem theory :\#151 ; When dyad sulphur and oxygen are united to an element by both their affinities , their specific volumes become respectively

