1902 .
] Estimation of the Specific Gravity of Blood .
171 [ Added Nov. 28 , 1902.\#151 ; Since this paper was communicated to the Royal Society , I have seen a paper on the spectrum of lithium , by Hagenbach , in the * Annalen der Physik , ' No. 12 , 1902 , which was published on November 13 .
The experimental part of his paper deals almost entirely with the blue line , and the fact that there are other abnormal lines in the spectrum of lithium is recorded above for the first time .
Hagenbach 's conclusion that there are two lines near wavelength 4603 is not , I think , established ; and I still hold that the views expressed in this paper are more probable .
He has not been able to find the second line as a bright line , so the difficulties in the way of accepting the view that there is a second dark line , without a corresponding bright line , remain .
He has not referred to Professors Liveing and Dewar 's work , * and his evidence for saying there are two lines is , in fact , similar to the evidence they gave .
] 4 An Error in the Estimation of the Specific Gravity of the Blood by Hammerschlag 's Method , when employed in connection with Hydrometers .
" By A. G. Levy , M.D. ( London ) .
Communicated by Sir Victor Horsley , F.R.S. Received November 25 , \#151 ; Read December 11 , 1902 .
( From the Laboratory of Pathological Chemistry , University College , London .
) Hammerschlag 's method of estimation of the specific gravity of the blood is an application to clinical purposes of a physical method frequently employed when only a small quantity of the substance under investigation is obtainable .
The method may be briefly described as the adjustment of the specific gravity of a mixture of chloroform and benzol by small successive additions of either constituent until it corresponds to the specific gravity of the blood , the test of the attainment of this condition being that a small drop of the blood , when immersed in the mixture , shall remain suspended without any very obvious tendency to rise or sink .
The specific gravity of the mixture is then estimated by means of a hydrometer , the scale of which is graduated to register densities lying between the maximum and minimum densities of blood , i.e. , from 1*020 to 1*080 .
In order to attain a rapid adjustment of the relative proportions of the chloroform and benzol , it is the general practice to use a comparatively small quantity only of these fluids and a small hydrometer , and , as will be hereafter seen , the size of the instrument is an important factor in the magnitude of the error .
This error was commented upon in a paper read by Dr. Baumann * * Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 174 ( 1883 ) , p. 215 .
172 Dr. A. G. Levy .
Estimation of Specific Gravity [ Nov. 25 , before a recent meeting of the Physiological Society , in which he recorded estimations by Hammersehlag 's method which exceeded by 0-012 the estimation of the specific gravity of the blood by the picndmeter method .
Dr. Baumann also mentioned similar , but less considerable , excessive readings noted by certain other observers .
I had myself , in the course of a series of experiments upon the blood of dogs , * occasion to remark upon the consistently high results yielded by Hammerschlag 's method , the excess being , in my cases , , from 0-007 to 0-008 .
With the purpose of investigating the source of this error , I prepared two mixtures , the one ( A ) of chloroform and benzol , and the other ( B ) of glycerine and water , and , in each case , adjusted the relative proportions until identical readings were obtained on the scale of the same hydrometer .
On immersing a drop of mixture ( B ) in a vessel of mixture ( A ) , it rapidly sank to the bottom , thus-indicating , in the absence of interfluid exchanges , an actually higher specific gravity of ( B ) .
This indeed could be demonstrated by other methods of finding the densities of the two liquids , i.e. , by the weighing bottle or picnometer , or by Westphal 's specific gravity balance .
The occurrence of a gross fault in the hydrometer method being established , it remained to investigate its extent and origin .
I proceeded by immersing four dissimilar hydrometers , all graduated from 1-000 to 1*060 to the test of immersion in a mixture of chloroform and benzol , which had been prepared , with the aid of Westphal 's balance , of a specific gravity = 1 -000 , and the following table shows the point at which the lowest level of the fluid meniscus intersected each scale , i.e. , the apparent specific gravity for each hydrometer .
The measurements of each instrument are included in the table for future reference .
The error , as set forth above , is explicable by a consideration of the differences between the values of the surface tensions of water and of chloroform and benzol .
The exact experimental proof of this would , I find , involve an extended investigation into a complicated subject. .
This I have not attempted\#151 ; it suffices to show how far the error , calculated from certain known conditions , agrees with my comparatively rough observations .
The action of surface tension of a fluid upon a floating hydrometer is evidenced in a downward pull upon the stem , so that a hydrometer becomes immersed , not only until it has displaced a weight of water equal to its own weight , but is still further immersed by the action of surface tension upon its stem until the additional weight of water displaced balances this surface tension pull .
It is this point of ultimate * 11 The Changes in the Blood of Dogs after Thyroidectomy , " ' Journ. Path , and Baot .
October 1898 p. 317 .
1902 .
] of the Blood by Hammerschlag 's Method .
173 Table I. 1 No. of hydrometer .,. . .
* No. 1 .
No. 2 .
No. 3 .
No. 4 .
Weight in grammes 15-3118 11*367 3-81 2-868 Diameter of stem in mm ... ... ... 3-95 | 4*37 j t - -1 , | 3*55 3*13 Length of first division of scale 1 #000 to 1 '001 ) in mm. 1 -29 0-74 0*417 0*398 Reading of scale in a chloroform benzol mixture of specific gravity - 1 -000 1 *002 1-003 1 1*0095 1 *010 No. 1 hydrometer is a more sensitive instrument than the ordinary urinometer , having a large barrel and a comparatively fine stem .
No. 2 is an ordinary urino-meter such as is in general use in hospitals .
Hydrometers Nos. 3 and 4 are considerably smaller instruments , and are similar to those which have been employed in this laboratory for use in connection with Hammersehlag 's method .
immersion which corresponds to the mark 1 '000 on the stem when the hydrometer is floating in water .
If the same hydrometer is floated in a chloroform and benzol mixture of sp. gr. = 1*000 , the same volume of mixture is displaced , but , as in this case the liquid possesses a lower surface tension , the pull upon the stem is less powerful , and hence less of it is immersed from this cause than in the case of water , the degree of surface tension immersion being , in the two instances , in direct proportion to the respective values of the surface tensions .
The mark TOOO on the stem , therefore , floats a little distance above the surface of the mixture , and the hydrometer hence shows a reading which is higher than the actual specific gravity .
The length of the divisions and the diameter of the stem of any hydrometer being known , the error due to surface tension may be calculated .
The value of surface tension may be readily expressed in milligrammes for each millimetre of the circumference of the stem on which its acts .
The surface tension of water is estimated by Van der Mensbrugghe as 7*3 milligrammes per mm. Other observers have found higher values , but it is difficult to obtain water sufficiently clean to exhibit even the surface tension of 7'3 milligrammes , for an exceedingly slight contamination of the surface by greasy matter suffices to appreciably reduce the tension .
The surface tensions of chloroform and benzol are very nearly equal 174 Dr. A. G. Levy .
Estimation of Specific Gravity [ Nov. 25 , in value , and may be taken in each case , for purposes of calculation , as 2*75 milligrammes per mm. , the actual figures given by some other observers varying slightly.* I further find , by experiment , that the surface tension of a mixture of the two fluids of any specific gravity between 1'000 and 1-080 is , for practical purposes , the same as that of the individual fluids .
The numerical difference between the values of the surface tensions of water and a chloroform and benzol mixture is therefore 4-55 milligrammes ( 7*3\#151 ; 2*75 ) , and this , when multiplied by the circumference ( expressed in mm. ) of the hydrometer stem , is equal to the weight in milligrammes of a column of the mixture of the same diameter as the stem in question , and of a length which equals the extent to which the stem is exposed below the specific-gravity mark which should be the proper reading of the hydrometer .
This length may be calculated according to the simplified formula h = 2T jrw , where h is height , T is surface tension , r is the radius of the stem , and w is the specific gravity of the fluid .
Having calculated this height in the case of a hydrometer immersed in a chloroform and benzol mixture of sp. gr. 1 -000 , the division of this by the average length of the first divisions of the scale gives the theoretical error ( at this specific gravity ) of the hydrometer , expressed in scale units .
Example.\#151 ; In the case of Hydrometer No. 4 , h 2T 2x4-55 K \#151 ; = g"K = 5-8147 rw 1 - 565 x 1 5-8147 0-398 14-6 As each division represents 0*001 , the error = 0-0146 .
In the following table , the calculated errors are contrasted with the observed errors of Table I. Table II .
Hydrometer .
Observed error .
Calculated error .
1 0-002 0-0035 2 0-003 0-0056 3 0*095 0-0123 4 0-010 0-0146 The not inconsiderable disparity between the two columns was , for a time , an unsolved problem , until I found by the following experi* Chloroform .
Temp. 16'-6 O. 2-75 Quincke .
" 12'-5 C. 2-813 Bed .
Benzol .
Temp. 15 ' C. 2'87 Schiff .
a 15 ' 0 .
2 76 Bed .
1902.1 of the Blood by Hammerschlag 's Method .
meant that each instrument possessed an intrinsic error which tended to minimise the error of reading .
A hydrometer and its containing vessel were carefully cleansed with benzol and protected from contamination with greasy matter , and a sample of water taken , which was the cleanest readily obtainable , i.e. , tap-water which had been allowed to run through the pipe for some fifteen minutes .
On immersing the hydrometer in this water , the mark 1-000 rested a slight distance below the surface .
The water in which the hydrometer was standardised must have been contaminated , and hence possessed a considerably lower surface tension than that of the comparatively clean water in which my experiment was performed .
All the four hydrometers of my tables I found to possess this intrinsic error , which I estimated somewhat roughly , and have expressed in scale units .
When these innate errors are added to the errors of Table I , the totals more closely approximate to the calculated errors .
( See Table III .
) Table III .
Hydrometer .
| Error due to difference between surface tensions of impure water and a i chloroform-benzol mixture .
Error due to difference of surface tensions of impure and clean water .
Total error .
Calculated error .
1 0-002 0 0014 0 0034 0-0035 2 0-003 0-002 0 005 0 0056 3 0 -0095 0-002 0 -0115 0 -0123 4 0-010 0-003 0-013 0 0146 There is thus sufficient agreement between the values of the observed and calculated errors to demonstrate that the disturbing influence of surface-tension is sufficient to cause the whole of the error in the hydrometer reading and to account for the inaccuracy of Hammerschlag 's method .
Taking into consideration the varying value of the surface tension of water , and the fact that no accurate determinations were made by me of each individual specimen of water or of chloroform and benzol , very exact calculations are precluded .
Had this been done doubtless a more exact agreement between observations and calculations would have resulted .
Furthermore , observations of this nature are replete with difficulties which can not be touched on here , but which may be gathered from a paper upon an elaborate investigation into a similar subject by Fridtjof Nansen.* * " Scientific Results of the Norwegian North Polar Expedition , " toI .
3 , Part 10 176 Estimation of the Specific Gravity of Blood .
[ Nov. 25 , The difference in the error of the several hydrometers is readily accounted for .
A consideration of the facts already set forth shows that the error when expressed in scale units must vary directly as the radius of the stem , and inversely as the total weight of the instrument , so that when the stem is fine in comparison with the weight , the error is small .
But in making a small hydrometer it is impossible to keep down the relative proportion of the stem .
It thus follows that the smaller hydrometers exhibit a greater surface tension error than the larger ones .
The greatest discrepancy which I have observed in any hydrometer in chloroform and benzol was O014 .
This instrument was a small one , graduated from T020 to T080 , and is not included in the above tables .
This source of error in Hammerschlag 's method may be obviated by : ( 1 .
) The estimation of the specific gravity of the chloroform and benzol mixture by means of an instrument which excludes or minimises the surface tension factors .
The most convenient is some such balance as Westphal 's , in which the surface of the fluid is intersected by an exceedingly fine platinum wire only .
The employment of hydrostatic bubbles is inconvenient on account of the long series required .
The picnometer method is not readily applicable in connection with very volatile fluids .
( 2 .
) By employing a hydrometer which has been standardised or corrected in chloroform and benzol mixtures , the requisite specific gravities of which have been adjusted by an accurate method .
In the absence of the above-mentioned appliances a rough method or correction may be applied to any hydrometer of which the highest mark is T000 .
The method consists of adjusting the proportions of a mixture of chloroform and benzol until a small drop of water immersed neither sinks or floats .
The mixture being thus of the same specific gravity as water itself , the reading of the hydrometer in it is its error at this degree , and in the case of a well-constructed and accurately graduated hydrometer , this error holds good with only a negligible increase throughout the scale .
I have , in conclusion , to express my indebtedness to Professor Vaughan Harley for the resources of his laboratory , and to Professors Baly and Donnan , of the Chemical Department , at University College , for kind assistance and the loan of appliances .

