]\gt ; On the Reduction of Anemograms .
VIII .
' Reduction of Anemograms taken at Armagh Observatory in the Years 1857 to 1863 By T. R. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received June 11 , 1875 .
The instrument with lvhich these observations made is described in the Transactions of the Royal Academy , .
xxii .
, and a tinuous series its records exist from to lVith the 1uted resources of this tory it as not in my to reduce them ; but it seemed to solve duished members of the Royal Society to ascertain such obsell ations competent to -clop any amid the , lawlessness of the , nnd they obtniued for me grant from the Government Fund to cuss the of years .
tely the has ] by various ccidents .
Of the uses of lvind some undoubtedly periodical ; iLnd t they are masked by othels of itude , hich , in the present st of our , seem quite vless , yet these from the mean of a sufficient number of obsel.vatious residunl the first .
Of the periodical causes the diStribUtion of hcat is the most important ; this , on the place of the sun , evidelltly a function of the time .
The immediate data of the , the vclocity of the wind , though not the mosb grent bers , yet are those hich iutel .
the ; I have prcsented them in { each of tho seven the of the , the lunber of hours during it has ) each ulonth .
{ he numbel of hours bove 2niles , the 11nmbcr ) record .
The most striking this its larity , not merely from octant to octant to moutl } , to yenr .
Both velocity { houls the S.SW .
, a minimum in , their : to monthly variations , the amounl of illd is creasing to July in the ratio of sing to of the yealvith a exceptiou in tho i$ than February as .
rlhis , ideil of eqninoctial .
the } than iu thero is ] There is also no of ) for detecting sevcral bc variations equally ) in to 19 in .
If without reference to dircction , it is that for the wholc y is !
) more likcly to ve definitc i$ to VOL. Dr. T. R. Robinson on the [ June component and vestern W , to deduce from these interpolation fo mulae involving periodic functions of the time for periods of one or mo .
ears , and from the of these fimctions in successive periods derive some laws .
At first sight this might seem impracticabl from the excessive discordance of the values for the same in differe1 .
Thus in the first term of the set , January 1d , the extrem diffel .
in the seyen years is , for , for .
Evident hours were out of the question , and even the meau for the seve , as evident examining their probable errors .
However , hour for the seven , then combined these in periods of te uItimately took- their for the entire month .
These monthl Table III .
, from which it appears , first , that all tk te of positive .
This ises from the pondernnce of positive the latter occur so fre quently that they evidently belong to the ind system ; and I wns firt disposed to mean and deYclop them lately .
I tried it for Jnnuar Jume , but saw thnt in the present state of it woul be useless .
In the values of the whole , Jume ; and they found in the means of almost ever honr , but so irregularly distributed that it ould be almost impossible develop them in terms of the time .
were done , we not combine in any instance the negative and positive result unless we knew the causes which occasionally mix the polar equa currents .
I efore took the entire means as alone , that , as I vithstanding the discordance of th observations , the means of from 196 to 217 present notnbl agreement , and the Ilces which they exhibit are subject to law .
I we miJle the colunms ( which give the of each we find in each a maximum and minimum and one or mor lesser ones .
The epochs these vftrvifh the .
For in winte the chief xiJnum is to 3 , in summer from 9 A.lf .
loon ; for it less , being little before .
The principa mimmum occuls from 6 P.lf .
to 10 P.lf .
, both and S. extreme rmlges { greatest }farch , least in November , the horizonffi columns , which give the monthly tiou , distence of is still more evident .
has { ximum in January February ; its greatest in ]}Iarch , its mini mum in April ; a smallel .
ximum in August , and a smallel .
minimmn ir ovember .
rphe tions are greater here in the horary columns The for is simplel ' : it has one maximum December nnd minin1um in ; its 1 ' , too , is something grenter .
The meall for miles , the the meaTl y , ncau and the of ilcs . .
l@r6 .
] Reduction of Anemograms .
A Table whose belong to dates sep rated by considerable intel'vals wfil not give the compo1lents generally ithout i. The foruniversally adopted this hen the qualltities erned are periodic functions of the is that given by Bessel\mdash ; \amp ; c. , siu \amp ; c. , or its secondary where is the -angle from lniduight .
the monthly 1 tions must be lepresented , the coelficicnts the first must be developed terns of ( the ] the nniug of the year ) , and the explession of of tbcm by the Corl tspollding cosine or sine of .
Bessel 's ltation of coeflicieuts may be much shortened whele , in the ctbes before lts , the circle is ided into 2 pnrts( being an ) , { llld of the series or : for , consequence of the qnality of the cosine and sine of , and , it is only Sfly to compute for the quadrant .
the sets this bour uight be ened by combiniug them glotlps of 3 ; the for is given , but it is not quite as is given .
The COllll ) by given in Tables .
and .
for each lJlolJh to the ordel , and an estimate of their precision .
These constants are then ) the formula is } .
This , ection ; it from which it is deduced to to a selics of nrithmotical progression .
This is not the : first , hc of does represent the ?
the , middle of that ; secondly , the distances of the from ] beginning of the year not both corrected by multiplying hc .
The secondary constants so order .
As an example of the mode of geut may have on the ] ' is It is developed terms of ' of the tion of and uf S. The all ) lh the existence of its maximum lilllo ) ) of small a quantity ; but the } ] .
1h0 of a large ]lumberof ] ) the Vhou the moon is east of the its est Dr. Andrews on the Physical Properties of [ June 17 lessens it ; and without attempting to allow for elongation from the or tion , I merely compnred the Ws at the lunar hours 21 and 3 9 and 15 .
I only took the first six months , which seemed The result rather surprised me ; 2418 obselvations give for the curren , which , allowing the omissiollS above mentioned and friction the earth 's surface , must be very near the truth .
Among observations are two above 40 and three above 30 ; and it seemed wortl trying what would be the effect of omitting these and all above fou times error of one .
In this for it was all 15 .
The l.esult is that 2360 observations give showing h even considerable discordances affect a mean under such circumstances and also perhaps that eyen such discordances should not be rejected .
IX .
' Preliminary Notice of further Researchcs on the Properties of Matter in the Liquid and Gascous States under varied conditions of Pressure and ature.\ldquo ; By Dr , ANDREWS , F.R.S. Vice-President of Queen 's Belfast , Received June 17 , 1875 .
The tion to which this note refers has occupied me , with little intermission , since my former communication in 1869 to the Society , " " On the Continuity of the Liquid and Gaseous of ]]atter.\ldquo ; It undertaken chiefly to the tions which the three great laws discovered respectively by Boyle , Gay-Lussac , and Dalton undergo when mntter in the gaseous state is placed under physical conditions differing greatly from any hitherto within the reach of tiou .
It a large number of experiments of precision , performed at diflerent temperatures and { pressures ranging from to three hundred atmospheres .
The apparatus employed is , in all its parts , similar to that described in the referred to ; and so perfectly did it the dings of the cathetometer , at the highest bjeot oxperiment halld tratures employed , tension of aqueous vapour in a barometer-tube .
In using it the chief improvement I have is in the method of the original volumes of the before compression , which can now be known with much less labour and greater accuracy than by the method I formerly described .
The lower ends of the tubes the gases dip mercurial formed of thin glass , which rest on ledges within the apparatus .
This arrangement ented many ilures in screwing up the appalatus , has given more to the measurements .
A improvement also been made in the method of preparing the tishers used in the for the fine screws , by means of which the pressure is obtained .
It consists in the with gre by ting it

