ADDENDUM to description of Photometer .
By W. CROOKES , F.R.S. Received December 17 , 1868 .
When I wrote that other experimentalists had already made use of the phenomena of polarized light for measuring the intensity of light , I was not aware that a photometer already existed in which the principle of the one above described was adopted .
By the kindness of Sir Charles Wheatstone I have , within the last few days , been enabled to experiment with a photometer devised by M. Jamin , founded on the same principle .
I have not yet succeeded in finding a printed account of this instrument , but a written one was supplied with it , and having been allowed to take it to pieces its construction is evident .
It consists , first , of a Nicol 's prism , then of an achromatized doubly refracting prism ; next , of two plates of quartz , cut oblique to the axis , reversed , and superposed ; and finally , at the eye-end , of a second Nicol 's prism .
As in my instrument , each of the two lights to be compared split Prof. Maskelyne on the Mineral Constituents into two images ; the ordinary ray from one is superposed on the extraordinary ray from the other , and the compound beam so produced is examined further .
The means adopted to effect the desired object are , however , very different , being much simpler in my method , whilst the results are superior .
In Jamin 's photometer the light which eventually reaches the eye is comparatively feeble , and the field of view is very restricted ; the objects themselves under comparison are seen direct through the instrument without the interposition of a telescopic arrangement , and no means are taken to prevent extraneous light from entering .
The deficiency of light makes observations by artificial light difficult , whilst when examining objects illuminated by diffused or direct sunlight the eye is fatigued and bewildered by the variations of shape , size , and colour assumed by the overlapping objects seen through the instrument .
In the photometer described in the former part of this paper , there is abundance of light , and the observation is made upon two luminous disks , which are magnified by means of a lens , so as to appear close to the eye .
It will be found much easier to detect differences of colour between these two adjacent disks than to observe the presence or absence of the coloured fringes in the central portion of the field of Jamin 's photometer .
In the former case the eye has nothing to observe but two uniform and purely coloured disks , changing from redgreen to green-red through an intermediate stage of neutrality ; in the latter case the eye has to detect the stage of neutrality in the central portion of the field , where the two images under comparison overlap , the attention being distracted , and the sensitiveness of the eye weakened , by the brilliantly coloured fringes which cross the adjacent objects .
A. direct comparison of the two instruments for sensitiveness shows that the present photometer will detect much more minute differences of intensity than Jamin 's will , whilst it will work with tolerable accuracy in a light too feeble to give any results with the latter instrument .

