286 ZOOLOGY OP KERGUELEN ISLAND .
SpoNGiiDiE.\#151 ; ByII .
J. , F.B.S. The collection of Sponges from Kergnelen Island is very limited in extent .
So far as it goes , it may he said to present a European , and more especially a British facies .
Half of the species at the fewest , may be picked up at any time on the beach of South Devon :\#151 ; viz. Isodictya rosea , FLa H. , and II .
sanguinea .
To these we might add a fifth species , H. , for the Kerguelen variety differs from the normal British form only in the possession of spicules twice the size of those of the latter .
Of the three species remaining Thalysias is common to the Mediterranean and the seas between the Americas ; the TJte occurs on the N.W. coast of Spain and in the Mediterranean ; and one only , the , is decidedly antarctic .
This last was the only specimen obtained from a considerable depth ; all of the others were either collected with the grapple within the Lami-narian zone , or were the produce of shore-collecting between tide-marks or amidst the refuse of the beach .
Probably more extended research would have brought to light divers of the many peculiar forms which abound in the Cape seas and in those of the southern part of Australia .
In the course of my examination I have met with very few , no Globigerina , and no Coccoliths .
Halichondria panicea .
Johnst .
Brit. Spong .
1842 , p. 114 , pi .
x. \amp ; xi .
5 .
Yar.\#151 ; Dry specimen : Irregularly globose , 4 inches in diameter ; colour on the surface white , interiorly light sponge yellow .
Structure felt-like , fibreless : texture light , delicate , sub-compressible .
Spicules of one form only , viz.:\#151 ; long , smooth , acerate , curved and often slightly bent in the centre ; average maximum dimensions 100X4 120^4 6000 6000 UU11 .
This specimen was picked up dry on the shore , apparently after it had been for a considerable period rolled about in the sea .
It afforded accommodation to an extensive menagerie of animals , belonging to , , and Spongida .
An amorphous fragment of the same species gathered when fresh was preserved in spirits ; it is of a light yellowish sponge-colour .
Ilab.\#151 ; ( Yar .
) Boyal Sound , Kerguelen Island ; ( normal form ) British coast .
* Isodyctya rosea .
Bowerbank , Monogr .
Brit. Spong .
, vol. ii .
282 .
Amorphous , encrusting the malleoloid expansions of a Melobesia .
Colour pinkish .
SPONGIIDJE.\#151 ; H. J. CARTER .
Structure isodictyal ( vide illustr .
in Bowerbk .
, op .
cit. pi , xx .
, 309 ) .
Texture paniceous , friable .
Spicules of one form only , viz.:\#151 ; rather short , smooth , acerate , curved , and often slightly bent in the middle .
Average maximum dimensions ms inchThe largest specimen appears to have been picked up on the shore after many years exposure .
Among other examples are some amorphous fragments in spirits , gathered when fresh , of a light sponge-colour ; also some dry pieces still retaining the characteristic roseate tint presented by this species .
Hab.\#151 ; Royal Sound , Kerguelen Island ; also British coast .
Thalysias .
Thalysias , Duch .
de Ponbressin et G. Michelotti , Spongiares de la Mer Caraibe , Harlem , 1861 , p. 85 , pi .
xvii .
, 1 , \amp ; c. Schmidt , Balsamo-Crivelli , Atti d. Soc. Ital .
de Scienza , 1863 ( Schmidtiaficiformis ) , vol. v. , taf .
iv .
, 2 , \amp ; c. Gulf of Naples .
Thalysias subtriangularis , D. Sf M. Mammiferous sessile form .
Dry specimen .
Mammiform processes rising out of a procumbent mass .
Surface even , uniformly and closely pierced with small holes .
Colour yellowish brown .
Vents large , single , each at the end of a mammiform process .
Pores originally in sarcode tympanising the little holes on the surface .
Structure compact .
Texture close , uniformly firm .
Spicules of one form only , viz.:\#151 ; smooth , acerate , curved , and often slightly bent in the middle : average maximum measurements ~~ inch .
t)UUU Hah.\#151 ; Royal Sound , Kerguelen Island ; also the Mediterranean , and seas of Central America .
Halichondria plumosa , .
Hab.\#151 ; Royal Sound , Kerguelen Island , on : also British coast .
Halichondria carnosa , Johnston .
With spicules of one form only , viz.:\#151 ; pin-like , smooth , with globular terminal head , slightly fusiform shaft , and fine point : average maximum dimensions 1|^ inch .
Hab.\#151 ; The same as that of the preceding species .
Halichondria sanguinea , Johnston .
With spicules of one form only , viz.:\#151 ; smooth arcuate and curved : average maximum dimensions to of an inch .
Tethya antarctica .
Carter , Ann. et Mag. of Not .
Plist .
, 4th ser. , 1872 , ix .
412 , pi .
xx .
Part of a large specimen ; in appearance very like grey hair matted together with sand and mud , [ in form similar to a small cocoa-nut prolonged at the base into a short cylindrical peduncle as thick as one 's wrist ] .
Spicules , long large stout acerates , mixed with apparently an equal quantity of delicate anchor-and-fork-headed long shafts .
The acerates are much larger and longer than those of the specimen described by me in the Annals \amp ; Magazine of Natural History ( loc. cit. ) averaging in their maximum dimensions by two inch .
Bab.\#151 ; Royal Sound , 40 fathoms , brought up by anchor , Eaton ; also dredged in lat. 74 ' 30 ' S. , long , ( obliterated ) , from a depth of 300 fathoms , and in lat. 77 ' 30 ' S , , long .
175 ' 2 ' E. , from 206 fathoms , Antarctic Expedition .
Ute capillosa .
Schmidt , Spong .
Adriat .
Meeres , p. 17 , taf .
i. , 6-6 a-b .
White ; long and compressed , sac-like with narrowed aperture ; 2 inches long , j inch broad , S inch thick .
Spicules tri-radiate of two sizes , mixed with thick , stout , rudely formed , acerates , which project liair-like above the surface .
( In spirits ; gathered in the fresh state .
) Bab.\#151 ; Royal Sound , Kerguelen Island : also Vigo Bay , dredged by Mr. Saville Kent ; and the Mediterranean .
O

