I. " A Second Memoir upon Quantics .
" By ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received April 14 , 1855 .
The memoir is intended as a continuation of the author 's introductory memoir upon Quantics ( vide Proc. R.S. p. 58 , and Phil. Trans. 1854 , p. 245 ) ; the special subject of the memoir is the theorem referred to in the postscript of the introductory memoir , and the numerous developments arising thereout in relation to the number and form of the covariants of a binary quantic .
The author , after some remarks as to the asyzygetic integrals and the irreducible integrals of a system of partial differential equations , and after noticing that the number of irreducible integrals is in general infinite , proceeds to establish the above-mentioned theorem , viz. that a function of any order and degree satisfying the necessary condition as to weight , and such that it is reduced to zero by one of the operations { xdy}--xdy and { ydx } -ydx , is reduced to zero by the other of the two operations , i. e. that it is a covariant ; and he shows how by means of the theorem the actual calculation of the covariants is to be effected .
The theorem gives at once ( in terms of symbols P , P ' , which denote a number of partitions ) expressions for the number of the asyzygetic covariants of a given degree and order , or of a given degree only , of a quantic of any order ; this enables the discussion of particular cases , but to obtain more general results it is necessary to transform the expressions for the numbers of partitions by the method explained in the author 's " Further Researches on the Partition of Numbers .
" It appears by the resulting formulae that the number of the irreducible invariants or covariants does in fact become infinite for quantics of an order sufficiently high ; the number of the irreducible invariants first becomes infinite in the case of a quantic of the order 7 ; the number of irreducible covariants first becomes infinite in the case of a quantic of the order 5 .
In particular , the formulae show that in the case of a quantic of the order 5 , or quintic , there are 4 irreducible invariants of the degrees 4 , 8 , 12 and 18 , respectively connected by an equation of the degree 36 ; and that in the case of a quantic of the order 6 , or sextic , there are 5 irreducible invariants of the degrees 2 , 4 , 6 , 10 and 15 respectively connected by an equation of the degree 30 ; so that the system of the irreducible invariants of a sextic is analogous to that of the irreducible invariants of a quintic .
The memoir concludes with a table of the covariants of a quadric , a cubic , and a quartic , and of certain of the covariants of a quintic .

