]\gt ; [ 83 ] V. Correctians and Additions to the Memoir on the Theory of Reciprocal SurJaces ( Philosophical Transactions , vol. clix .
1869 ) .
By Professor CAYLEY , F.fi .
S. Received July 22 , \mdash ; Read November 16 , 1871 .
1 .
I AM indebted to Dr. ZEUTHEN for the remark that although the " " off-points\ldquo ; and " " off-planes , \ldquo ; as explained in the memoir , are real singularities , they are not the singu- larities to which the of the formulae refer .
The most convenient way of correcting this is to retain all the formulae with as they stand .
but to write for the number of ' ' off-points\ldquo ; and ' ' off-planes\ldquo ; respectively ; viz. we thus have , off-points , , unexplained singular points , and , off-planes , , unexplained singular planes , the formulae as they stand , taking account of the unexplained singularities and , but not taking any account at all of the off-points and off-planes The extended formulae in which these are taken into account , , which replace SALMON'S original formulae ( A ) and ( B ) .
2 .
In the formulae it is assumed that the nodal curve has no actual multiple points other than the triple points , and no stationary points other than the points which lie on the cuspidal curve ; and similarly that the cuspidal curve has no actual multiple points , and no stationary points other than the points which lie on the nodal curve ; and this being so , is the class of the nodal curve and that of the cuspidal curve .
But we may take the formulae as universally true ; viz. may be considered as standing for , and as standing for ; only then and are not in all cases the classes of the two curves respectively .
: ; .
In the formulae No. 6 et seq. , introducing the new singularity , we have as follows:\mdash ; ; and substituting these in , and writing for its value , we have , as in the memoir , ; viz. there is no term in ) .
Writing in the equations which contain , these become ( SALMON'S equations ( C ) ) ; and adding to each equation four times the corresponding equation with the factor , these become Writing in the first of these , and reducing the other two by means of the values of , the equations become The reciprocal of the first of these is ; viz. writing , and , this is ; and it thus appears that the order of the spinode curve is reduced by 3 for each offplane PBOFESSOR CAYLEY ON TIIE IHEORY OF RECIPROCAL SURFACES .
4 .
As to the other two equations , writing for their values , these become equations which admit of a geometrical interpretation .
In fact , when there is only a nodal curve , the first equation is which we may verify when the nodal curve is a complete intersection , ; for if the equation of the surface is , where the degrees of are respectively , then the pinch-points are given by the equations , and the number of pinch-points is thus ; but for the curve we have , and its order and class are , or the formula is thus verified .
Similarly , when there is only a cuspidal curve , the second equation is which may be verified when the cuspidal curve is a complete intersection , ; the equation of the surface is here , where and the points are given as the intersections of the curve with the surface Now AC\mdash ; B2 vanishing for we must have , where vanish for ; and thence where vanish for .
The equation writing therein , thus becomes ; and its intersections with the curve are the points each three times , and the points each twice ; viz. they are the points But if the degree of is , then the degrees of are , whence the degree of is , and the number of points is , viz. this is , or it is ; so that being , the equation is verified .
5 .
It was also pointed out to me by Dr. ZEUTHEN that in the value of given iu No. 10 the term involving should be instead of , and that in consequence the coefficients of are erroneous in several others of the formulae .
Correcting these , PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON THE TlIEORY OF RECIPROCAL SURFACES .
and at the same time introducing the terms in , and writing down also the terms in as they stand , we have The equations of No. 11 , used afterwards , No. 63 , should thus be ; and from these I deduce 6 .
In No. 32 we have ( without alteration ) ; but in the application ( Nos. 40 and 41 ) to the surface we have , and there are off-points , , and close-points , .
The new equations involving are thus satisfied .
7 .
I have ascertained that the value of obtained , Nos. 51 to 64 of the memoir , is inconsistent with that obtained in the " " Addition\ldquo ; by consideration of the deficiency , and that it is in fact incorrect .
The reason is that , although , as stated No. 53 , the values of two of the coefficients may be assumed at pleasure , they cannot , in conjunction with a given system of values of , be thus assumed at pleasure ; viz. being , 272 , 44 respectively , the values of are really determinate .
I have no direct investigation , but by working back from the formula in the Addition I find that we must have ; the values of the remaining coefficients then are ; or the formula is -ni ; but I have not as yet any means of determining the coefficients of the terms in PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON THE THEORY OF RECIPROCAL SURFACES .
From the several cases of a cubic surface we obtain as in the memoir ; but applying to the same surfaces the reciprocal equation for , instead of the results of the memoir .
we find , , , that also given cubic scroll ) .
And combining the two sets of results , we have , , , , ; but the coefficients are still undetermined .
To make the result agree with that of the Addition , I assume ; whence we have ; and if we substitute herein the foregoing value of , we obtain \mdash ; which , except as to the terms in , the coefficients of which are not determined , agrees with the value given in the Addition .
Dr. ZEUTHEN considers that in general ; I presume this is so , but havc1 not verified it .

