IV .
" I On the Bromide of Carbon .
" By ARTHURa C. W. LENNOX , Esq. Communicated by Dr. HOPMANN .
Received May 24 , 1861 .
The compounds of carbon with bromine have as yet received but limited attention .
The tetrabromide of carbon , C Br4 , of the methylseries is altogether unknown .
Kolbe failed in obtaining this compound by submitting disulphide of carbon at a high temperature to the action of bromine , and I learn from Dr. Hofmann that the action of pentabromide of antimony on the disulphide gives no better result .
The bromide of carbon , C2 Br4 , has been obtained by Lowig* , who procured this substance by the action of bromine on alcohol or on ether , when it is formed according to the equationsC2H6 0 +4Br2= C2Br4+4 HBr+H 20 .
C4 Ho 0+8 Br2-2 C2 +8 B r4 -181 Br ?
, 1120 .
These processes appear , however , to be attended with difficulties ; at all events , Volckelt , who repeated L6wig 's experiments , failed in obtaining the substance described by that chemist .
A simpler method for obtaining this bromide of carbon appeared to present itself in the perfect substitution of bromine for the hydrogen in olefiant gas .
The brominated derivatives of ethylene have been chiefly examined by Regnault and by Cahours , and more recently by Wurtz and by Sawitch .
The following terms have been obtained : Dibromide of Ethylene .
Monobrominated Ethylene .
C 14 Br2 r C2 H , Br .
Dibromide of Monobrominated Dibrominated Ethylene .
Ethylene .
C H1 Br .
C2 ( 11 , Br ) Br , .
I Tribrominated Ethylene .
Dibromide of Dibrominated Ethylene .
T iBr C , ( 112Br ) Br , 2r Dibromide of Tribromin ated Ethylene .
C , ( H Br ) Br2 .
It thus appears that the whole series has been obtained with the exception of the tetrabrominated ethylene and its corresponding dibromide , the former of which would be the bromide of carbon obtained by Lowig in the reactions above indicated .
Of the bromniated derivatives of ethylene , dibromide of ethylene , monobrominated ethylene ( bromide of vinyl ) and dibromide of monobrominated ethylene , have as yet been best investigated .
In re-examining these substances , in transforming dibromide of ethylene by the action of an alcoholic solution of potash into monobrominated ethylene , and the latte ' by treatment with bromine into the corresponding dibromide , I had an opportunity of tracing step by step the observations of my predecessors .
Dibrominated Ethylene .
The action of an alcoholic solution of potash upon the dibromide of monobrominated ethylene yields , together with secondary products , a comparatively small quantity of the oily compound C2 1H^ Br .
, which is still further diminished by the extraordinary property exhibited by this substance of undergoing a molecular transformation similar to that of dichlorinated ethylene as observed by Regnault* , and of monobrominated ethylene more recently examined by Dr. Hofimanmlt Dibromintated ethylene having been lately the subject of a minute investigation by M. Sawitch , I have not entered upon a more close examination of this body , but have at once , by the renewed action of bromine , converted it into the Dibromide of Dibrominated Ethylene .
Bromine attacks the dibrominated ethylene with the greatest energy ; heat is evolved , and the bromine disappears .
When the bromine was no longer fixed , the orange-yellow liquid thus produced was treated with a weak solution of potash , washed with .
water , and.ltimately distilled with precaution .
It boils at about 200 ?
C. , but not without partial decomposition ; white fumes containing hydrobromic acid being given off during ebullition , which powerfully and persistently attack the eyes .
The bromine-compound is insoluble in water , but dissolves readily in alcohol and in ether .
When exposed to a freezing mixture , it solidifies to a white crystalline mass .
It was found impossible to purify this substance for analysis by distillation ; a current of perfectl dry carbonic acid gas was therefore passed through the liquid heated in a water bath to about 75 ? .
After a time it assumed a Nig-ter colour , and no longer gave off hydrobromic acid ; it was then found eto contain 02 , 11,2 ' Br , .
Tribrominated Ethylene .
The dibromide previously described is powerfully acted upon by an alcoholic solution of potash , C2 H Br , + KH =C2 H Br+ KBr + H20 .
Addition of water to the alcoholic solution precipitates the tribromieated ethylene as an oily substance boiling at 130 ?
C. , which by digestion with chloride of calcium and subsequent careful distillation , may be obtained sufficiently pure for analysis .
The results obtained in the analysis of this compound prove it to be represented by the formula C , 11 Br , .
Tribrominated ethylene , like the other substitution-products of ethylene , is apt to furnish an isomeric solid , readily soluble in alcohol and in ether , from which it crystallizes in colourless plates .
On slowly evaporating a solution of the oily modification in alcohol or c'her , the crystalline solid is likewise obtained .
Dibromide of Tribrominated Ethylene .
To obtain this compound , tribrominated ethylene was introduced into a retort , and cautiously distilled into a receiver containing bromine .
Combination took place with considerable evolution of heat .
The orange-red liquid thus produced was washed with weak potash , and ultimately with water .
Thus purified , this bromine-compound is a yellowish red oil , soluble in alcohol and in ether , and solidifying when exposed to a frigorific mixture .
I have not succeeded in preparing this substance in a state of sufficient purity for analysis .
But the nature of this body is clearly established by the facility with which it is transformed into Tetrabrominated Ethylene or Bromide of Carbon , by the action of an alcoholic solution of potash .
Addition of water to the alcoholic solution precipitates this compound as an oily liquid , which , when slowly deposited by spontaneous evaporation from its solution in alcohol or ether , separates in beautiful crystalline plates of an agreeable aromatic odour and burning taste .
One or two recrystallizations render this substance perfectly pure .
It is heavier than water , fuses at 50 ?
Co , sublimes at a higher temperature , and is not attacked by the mineral acids .
These properties identify this compound with the bromide of carbon obtained by Lowig in the action of bromine upon alcohol and upon ether .
For analysis , the substance was dried over sulphuric acid in vacuo ; the formula C2 Br , was established by the determination both of carbon and of bromine .
The tetrabrominated ethylene is generated by the action of an alcoholic solution of potash upon the dibromide of tribrominated ethylene , according to the following equation : C , EHBr , +KHO = C2Br , +KBr+-H20 .
The experiments which form the subject of this note were performed in the laboratory of Dr. Hofmann .

