346 Mr. G. Jennings Hind .
[ May 21 II .
" On Beds of Sponge-remains in the Lower and Upper !
Greensand of the South of England .
" By GeorqJ Jennings Hinde , Ph. D. , F.G.S. Communicated by Henry Woodward , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received April 29 , 1885 .
Read May 21 .
( Abstract .
) I have pointed out in this paper the occurrence in the Lower and Upper Greensand strata of the Wealden area , the Isle of Wight and the south-western counties , of beds of rock formed to a large extent of the detached spicular remains of siliceous sponges , and thus distinctly of organic origin .
Their true characters have not been generally recognised , and they have usually been described as deposits of sandstone , chert , malm , hearthstone , firestone , \amp ; c. In the Lowerj Greensand these beds are mainly developed in the lower , or HytheJ division , and they are exposed at Haslemere , Midhurst , Petworth , Godaiming , Tilburstow Hill near Godstone , Sevenoaks , Maidstone ] !
and at Hythe .
The sponge-beds vary from three-quarters of an inch to three feet in thickness ; between them , as a rule , there are intervening beds of sand or sandstone .
The greatest total thickness of the sponge-beds exposed in any one section is 11 feet .
Sponge-beds are less common in the higher or Folkestone division of the Lower Greensand , but they are numerous at Folkestone itself , and reach a total thickness of more than 8 feet , and there is also a thin bed in this division at Sevenoaks .
The Lower Greensand strata at Faringdon , in Berkshire , are of an altogether different character to those of the same formation in the area treated of in this paper , and the sponges which abound therein are likewise entirely different , being calci sponges , and retaining their entire forms .
The sponge-beds in the Upper Greensand are of two distinct types , one of which is shown on the northern and western margin of the Weald , and the other in the Isle of Wight , and further westward in the counties of Wilts , Somerset , Dorset , and Devon .
In the first-named district the sponge-beds are of a soft , greyish-white , siliceous , or siliceo-calcareous rock , known under the names of malm , hearth , or firestone .
In this the sponge spicules principally occur in the negative form of minute empty casts , the presence of which renders the rock extremely light and porous .
The beds can be traced nearly continuously along the northern and western margin of the Wealden area , and they are well shown at Godstone , Merstham , near Reigate , Betchworth , Farnham , and Selborne .
Further northwards they are present at Wallingford , in Berkshire .
The beds vary in thickness from 15 feet at Merstham to 60 feet at Farnham .
In the more typical Upper Greensand of the Isle of Wight and the 1885 .
] Sponge-remains in the Greensand .
jouth-western counties , the sponge-beds consist of thick layers of .
heart and porous siliceous rock at the summit of the series , immediately beneath the so-called chloritic marl ; whilst in the lower division i ; he sponge-remains principally occur in loose quartzitic sands with siliceous accretions .
The chert or sponge-beds at the top of the Upper Greensand are best exposed at Shanklin , Ventnor , and the Undercliff , jn the Isle of Wight , at Warminster in Wiltshire , and Penzlewood in Somersetshire .
They vary from 10 to 25 feet in thickness .
The sponge-beds of the lower division are scarcely recognisable in the Isle of Wight , but they attain a thickness of 10 to 20 feet on the summit of the Blackdown and Haldon Hills in Devonshire , and at Axmouth in Dorsetshire .
The chert here is only present in beds of subordinate importance .
Sponge-beds of similar characters to those of the Greensand have been described from the Hilssandstein in Westphalia , which is of Heocomian age , and , judging from specimens which I have examined , the " Gaize de l'Argonne , " which is largely developed in the Ardennes , and the " Meule de Bracquegnies " in Belgium , are sponge-beds , filled with spicules and spicular casts like those of the Greensand .
The sponge-remains in the various beds are exclusively those of siliceous sponges .
In some the silica of the spicules yet retains its original colloidal condition , in which it is negative to polarised light and readily soluble in caustic potash .
The matrix of the sponge-beds of the malm and firestone is also to a large extent of colloidal or amorphous silica , and this material has been deposited in the form of minute globules or disks , and seems to have been derived from the sponge spicules , with the empty casts of which the beds are throughout filled .
More generally the original amorphous silica of the sponge-remains has been altered to chalcedony , and the chert and porous siliceous rock accompanying it , which is filled with traces of the spicules , are likewise of chalcedony ; occasionally the chalcedony gives place to crystalline silica .
Glauconite very commonly fills the canals of the spicules , and remains after the spicular walls have been removed ; it also replaces the spicular walls .
In some sponge-beds the spicules have been nearly entirely replaced by crystalline calcite ; they are embedded in a matrix of granular limestone .
As a general rule the sponge-spicules are enclosed in a compact-matrix in which their forms can only be partially studied , but under certain conditions they are loosely distributed in sand , or in fine powder in cavities in chert , from whence they can be obtained quite free from matrix .
The sponge-beds appear to be composed of detached , free , spicules of disintegrated sponges ; entire sponges are absent .
Solar Spectrum .
Secondary Batteries .
[ May 21 , These spicules belong to numerous species .
All four orders of siliceous sponges are represented , but whilst the Monactinellid and Hexactinellid sponges form but a small proportion , the Tetracti-nellid and Lithistid sponges , more particularly those of the Mega-morina family , are extremely abundant .
III .
" The Solar Spectrum from X.7150 to \10,000 .
" By Capt. Abney , RE .
, F.RS .
Received May 6 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The paper deals with the method employed in taking the photographs of the solar spectrum , from which the map accompanying it was made , and indicates the degree of accuracy which has been obtained .
IV .
" On Charging Secondary Batteries .
" By William Henry Preeoe , F.R.S. Keceived May 6 , 1885 .
1 .
I have for the past twelve months been experimenting with secondary batteries with a view of getting an efficient , uniform , and constant source of currents for electric lighting my house , and I have succeeded beyond my expectations .
Some new facts have developed themselves during my ' experience , which I have thought of sufficient importance to bring before the Society .
2 .
The cells are of the Plants type , manufactured by the Elwell Parker Company of Wolverhampton .
Fourteen plates of plain sheet-lead 17 " X 11 " are suspended in well insulated wood boxes filled with diluted sulphuric acid in the proportion of about 1 to 10 .
These plates are grouped in two groups of seven , each group being soldered to a lead strip , forming alternately the positive and negative poles of the cell .
The plates of the respective poles are prevented from touching each other by ebonite grids or separators.* Each plate offers a surface of 1'3 square feet , so that the total surface of lead of each group opposed to each other is 9T square feet ; that is , 9T square feet of peroxidised lead is opposed to 9T square feet of spongy lead .
I use twenty-four such cells .
3 .
My charging current varies from 3 to 3^ amperes per square foot , while the current of discharge used in lighting my house varies from 1 to 1^ ampere per square foot .
The total weight of each cell is * These ebonite grids were introduced by Mr. Charles Moseley , and have effectually removed one incessant source of trouble in these cells , viz. , short-circuiting through the buckling of the plates .

