V. Cultural Experiments with uBiolo " of the Eiysiphacege .
By Ernest S. Salmon , F.L.S. Communicated by Professor H. Marshall Ward , F.R.S. Received December 2 , 1903 , \#151 ; Read February 4 , 1904 .
1 .
Introductory .
During the past two years the existence of " biologic forms " in the Frysiphaceee has been definitely proved .
We know now that there exist in this group of parasitic fungi races of individuals which are morphologically identical , but which differ physiologically\#151 ; or biologically\#151 ; in possessing distincti ve and sharply defined powers of infection .
Thus we find a fungus A growing on host-plant a , and a fungus B growing on host-plant b. Now the fungus A belongs to the same species as fungus B , and is identical in every morphological character , yet the fungus A cannot infect the host-plant b , nor can the fungus B infect the host-plant a. The two fungi A and B thus prove to be " biologic forms " of the same morphological species .
This specialization of parasitism was first observed , ( l ) ( 2 ) ( 5 ) , as regards the Erysiphaceee , in the conidial ( Oidium)stage of these fungi .
At the beginning of the present year I published a paper " On the Infection-powers of the Ascospores in the Erysiphacece " ( 4 ) , in which I gave the results of experiments which proved that the ascospores of " biologic forms " are similarly specialized in their powers of infection .
Soon afterwards Professor E. Marchal published a summary of experiments in which the same results were obtained ( 3 ) .
Since , then , restriction in power of infection to one species of host-plant , or to a group of closely allied species , has been proved to exist in these fungi in the sexual 'ascigerous stage as well as in the asexual conidial stage , we must admit the claim of these " biologic forms " to be considered as distinct entities .
2 .
The Behaviour of " Biologic Forms under Certain Methods of Culture .
In the course of experiments carried on during the past summer , I have found that the restriction in power of infection characteristic of " biologic " breaks down if the vitality of the leaf on which the conidia are sown is interfered with certain ways .
( 229 .
) P 2 12.5.04 .
The first method of culture adopted was the following .
The leaf to be inoculated was cut off from the plant , and a minute piece of the leaf-tissue was cut out with a razor .
In this operation the epidermal cells on one surface , and all or most of the mesopbyll tissue , were removed at the cut place , but the epidermal cells on the other surface ( opposite the cut ) were left uninjured .
By this means a transparent windowlike spot , 1\#151 ; 2 millims. across , was made in the leaf .
The conidia were sown on the cuticular surface of the uninjured epidermal cells over the wound , and the leaf placed , with the cut surface downwards , on damp blotting-paper at the bottom of a closed Petri dish .
As the epidermal cells on which the conidia were sown were rendered transparent by the removal of the underlying tissue , the development of the fungus could be followed in detail under the microscope .
Using this mode of culture , over fifty successful experiments were made in which the conidia of certain " biologic forms " were sown on " cut " leaves* of species which are normally immune to their attacks .
The following case may be given to illustrate the point .
If the conidia of ErysipheGr occurring on wheat are sown on uninjured leaves of wheat and of barley , the result will be the infection of wheat but never of barley .
That is to say , the form of E. on wheat is a " biologic form " confined under usual conditions to a few species of the genus But if now we take the conidia of this " biologic form " on wheat and sow them on barley leaves which have been " cut " as described above , full infection results , and conidio-phores with ripe conidia are produced in 6-8 days .
Other experiments described below seem to prove , further , that plants which are immune in nature can be artificially rendered susceptible .
For instance , the two species of wheat , Triticum monoeoccum and dicoccum have been stated to be immune against mildew , both in the field and in laboratory infection-experiments ( 2 ) .
If , however , leaves of these two species are " cut " as described above , and inoculated with the conidia of the " biologic form " of E. Graminis on wheat , or even of a species of barley ( ELordeum sylvaticum ) , infection readily occurs , and ripe conidiophores are produced in 4-6 days .
A summary of the experiments with " cut " leaves is given below ( p. 114 ) .
The experiments described in this summary give conclusive evidence that under certain cultural conditions the distinctive characteristics of " biologic forms " break down , or in other words , that the range of infection of " biologic forms " becomes increased ' when the vitality of the leaf on which the conidia are sown is affected by injury .
It may be noted here that the conidia of the fungus produced on the " cut " leaf possess full germinating powers .
For instance , conidia of the first generation produced on " cut " leaves of Hordeum sylvaticum by inoculation with conidia occurring on II .
vulgar \ readily infected " cut " leaves of Id. sylvaticum ; the conidia * " Cut " leaves = leaves cut as described above .
The word " cut " is used to designate the whole area from which mesophyll has been removed .
f All attempts to infect uninjured leaves of II .
s\gt ; /lvaticum with conidia from H. vulgar failed , " BIOLOGIC FORMS " OF THE ERYSIPHACEM .
thus obtained again readily infected " cut " leaves of , and so on to the third , generation .
Again , the conidia of the first generation produced on " cut " leaves of II .
sylvaticum by inoculation with conidia occurring on vulgar infected , in eleven cases out of twenty-two , " cut " leaves of T. vulgar .
In all the experiments hitherto mentioned , leaves removed from the plant , and injured by " cuts , " were used , and the question naturally presented itself : Was the susceptibility shown under the above conditions caused directly by the injury due to the " cut , " or was it , in part at any rate , caused by the cutting off of the leaf from the plant ?
Two series of experiments were carried out with the object of answering this question , In the first , leaves of barley attached to plants were " cut " and inoculated with conidia from wheat .
In one experiment a leaf of a plant of barley , 7 days old .
was " cut " in two places ( one each side of the midrib ) and over one " cut " conidia from Triticum vulgar were sown , the other " cut " serving as a control .
This " cut " leaf , still attached to the plant , growing in a pot , was then inserted through a hole into the bottom of a closed Petri dish and kept pressed down on wet blotting-paper .
On the fifth day mycelial liyphse and large lobed haustoria were evident at the place of inoculation over the " cut .
" By the tenth day , five conidiophores with chains of ripe conidia , and numerous younger conidiophores , had been produced ; while the control " cut " showed no trace of any fungus .
The leaf was now beginning to turn yellow towards the apex .
On the seventeenth day the leaf was nearly dead throughout its length ; three conidiophores were still visible at the inoculated spot , while the control " cut " was still free .
In another experiment two " cuts " were made on one barley leaf attached to a plant in a pot , and conidia from Triticum vulgar were sown over both " cuts , " the other plants in the pot serving as controls .
The " cut " leaf was inserted into a closed Petri dish in the same manner as before .
On the fourth day mycelial hyphse had developed over both " cuts " ; on the tenth day three conidiophores were formed ; on the sixteenth ten conidiophores were visible over one " cut , " and six over the other ; the leaf-tissue surrounding the " cuts " was now turning yellow .
By the twelfth day the leaf in its upper two-thirds was nearly colourless and almost dead , a few conidiophores were still visible ; no signs of any fungus appeared elsewhere on the " cut " leaf , nor on the control leaves in the pot .
In a third experiment a " cut " was made on a growing barley leaf attached to a young plant in a pot , and a drop of water placed on the " cut .
" On the dry epidermis over the " cut " conidia of the " biologic form " on wheat were sown .
Conidia of the same " biologic form " were sown also on the epidermis of another uninjured leaf of the same plant .
The pot was then placed under a bell-jar .
On the sixth day the " cut " leaf , which still retained the drop of water hanging in the concavity of the " cut , " was infected virulently with vigorous mycelial hyphse and numerous large lohed haustoria .
On the ninth day the " cut " leaf bore a few conidiophores .
No infection resulted on the uninjured leaf .
In the second set of experiments leaves of barley and wheat were removed from growing plants , and some of each species placed , uninjured , in Petri dishes under the same conditions as in previous experiments .
Oonidia of the " biologic forms " on wheat and barley were sown at marked places on these leaves .
No infection resulted when the conidia from wheat were sown on barley , nor in the reverse experiment , while infection never failed to occur on the wheat and barley leaves when conidia of the respective " biologic form " were sown .
It seems clear , therefore , that the effect caused by the " cut " on the vitality of the leaf is the factor which brings about increased susceptibility of the leaf to the attacks of the fungus .
It still remained to he seen whether the conidia produced on a " cut " leaf by inoculation with conidia of a " biologic form " which is unable to infect uninjured leaves of that species , possessed the power of ' infecting uninjured leaves of the plant in question ; or whether the restricted infection-powers characteristic of the " biologic form " are retained , under these conditions , in the conidia of the first generation .
The following experiment was made to determine this point .
Conidia obtained on " cut " leaves of Triticum vulgar ?
by inoculation with conidia of the occurring on Hordeum sylvaticumwere sown on the uninjured damp upper surface of two leaves of Triticum vulgarcattached to growing plants in a pot .
On one leaf fairly numerous conidia were deposited ; on the other only a very few .
The inoculated plants were kept continuously covered over with a bell-jar for 6 days .
The two leaves were then examined , and it was found that the leaf which had been sown with numerous conidia now bore at the place of inoculation a well-grown patch of mycelium , with a group of densely clustered conidiophores\#151 ; about fifty in number \#151 ; with chains of ripe conidia .
The control leaves ( six ) were all free .
By the ninth day a large and very vigorous Oidium-patch , powdery with masses of ripe conidia , was produced on this inoculated leaf .
No infection resulted on the other inoculated leaf .
Further , conidia obtained on " cut " leaves of by inoculation with conidia of the " biologic form " on II .
were sown on the under surface , between inked lines , of two leaves of 11 .
sylvaticum removed from the growing plant , but otherwise uninjured .
These two inoculated leaves were placed by the side of two control leaves on damp blotting-paper in a Petri dish .
On the ninth day the two inoculated leaves were covered continuously over the space between the inked lines ( = 0'5 centim. wide ) with vigorous mycelium bearing densely clustered conidiophores and powdery masses of ' ripe conidia .
The two control leaves remained free .
A variation was now made in the method of culture .
In three experiments conidia of E. Graminiswere sown on leaves which had been " cut " as described above , but the conidia were now sown on the internal tissues of the leaf exposed by the cut .
In the first experiment , thirteen " cut " leaves of barley were inoculated with " BIOLOGIC FORMS " OF THE ERYSIPHACEHL conidia of the " biologic form " on barley .
In some cases the leaves were " cut , " and the conidia were at once sown on the cut surface , which was moist with sap exuding from the cut cells ; in others , the cut surface was dried by exposure to air in a Petri dish for 3 hours .
By the fifth day all thirteen leaves were virulently infected , the cut surface being covered by interwoven hyphse bearing numerous little groups of conidiophores .
In the two other experiments conidia of the " biologic form " on wheat were sown on ten " cut " leaves of barley , on the cut surface , and placed by the side of six control leaves of barley , " cut , " but not inoculated , on damp blotting-paper in a closed Petri dish .
On the ninth day eight of the inoculated leaves were infected at the " cut " ; all bore patches of mycelial hyphse on the surface of the cut cells , and on five leaves the fungus had produced a little group of conidiophores .
In some cases the group of conidiophores sprang from the internal surface ( exposed by the cut ) of the epidermal cells ; in other cases from the exposed mesophyll tissue .
The controls were everywhere quite free .
At Professor Marshall Ward 's suggestion an experiment was now made to see if the same result , i.e. , the infection of the host-plant of one " biologic form " by the conidia of another " biologic form , " could he obtained by a method which avoided lesion of the leaf .
For this purpose eight barley leaves , which had been removed from the plant , were touched on the upper surface for a few seconds with a red-hot knife .
These were then sown with the conidia of the " biologic form " of on wheat ; on three leaves the conidia were placed on the burnt spot on the upper surface of the leaf ; on five leaves on the lower surface opposite to the burnt spot .
The leaves soon showed the effect of the application of the red-hot knife , a small area of leaf-tissue becoming discoloured , limp , and apparently dead on both surfaces .
On the eighth day two of the three leaves bore at the burnt place little flecks of mycelium with a few conidiophores .
The flecks of mycelium were at the very edge of the patch of killed cells on what ajDpeared superficially to be uninjured cells .
Of the five leaves each one was infected , and bore small flecks of mycelium with a few conidiophores .
The mycelium occurred , as a rule , on living tissue at the very edge of the group of dead cells killed by the hot knife , but in one or two cases mycelial hyphse could he seen on the now dead cells , and extending thence to the surrounding living tissue .
No signs of any fungus appeared elsewhere on these seven leaves .
3 .
General Considerations .
One of the first questions that presents itself in connection with the present subject is : Do we meet , in nature , with injuries to leaves , such as those caused in the above experiments ?
A case which has come under my observation leads me to conclude that such injuries do occur , and shows also of what nature the injury may be .
This case is as follows .
In the course of infection-experiments with the " biologic forms " of E. Grct minis on species of Bromus , I have found that the " biologic forms " occurring on B.commutatus and B. velutinusare not able to infect B. In these experiments , fifty leaves\#151 ; from fifty different plants\#151 ; of B. racemosus were inoculated , twenty-five with conidia from B. , and twenty-five with conidia from B. velutinus ; fifty control leaves of B. commutatus and B. velutinus being inoculated at the same time .
In every case , infection resulted on B. commutatus and B. velutinus , and failed on B. racemosus .
'There is no doubt , therefore , that we have on B. commutatus and B. velutinus a " biologic form " which is incapable under ordinary conditions of growing on B. racemosus .
Now , these plants of B. racemosus were kept in the laboratory for 6 weeks or so during the experiment , and , at the end of this time , became infested with " green fly " [ Aphis ) .
These insects , in sucking the juices of the plant , injure the leaf in much the same manner as was done artificially by " cutting " the leaf , that is , by puncturing the leaf they destroy a few of the leaf-cells at little isolated spots .
At these injured places on the leaf flecks of mycelium appeared , which eventually produced a few conidiophores .
It seems to me that we have here a case of a plant which is immune against a fungus so long as the leaves remain uninjured , hut which becomes susceptible when its leaves are injured by an insect .
Hitherto , the result of all experiments with " biologic forms " has been the accumulation of evidence tending to emphasise the fixity and sharply defined nature of " biologic forms .
" The evidence obtained was compelling us to believe that the numerous " biologic forms , " of which we found each morphological species to be composed , were rigidly separated one from the other by immovable limits which restricted each " biologic form " either to a single host-species , or to certain host-species of one genus .
At the most , a " biologic form " might , by means of a " bridging species " ( see 5 , p. 285 ) , pass from the host-species of one section of a genus to those of another .
The result of the present experiments , however , shows us some conditions under which " biologic forms " break down\#151 ; some conditions under which the conidia of one " biologic form " can infect host-plants ( of another " biologic form " ) , which are , as a rule , immune against its attacks .
We find that when the vitality of the leaf-cells of a host-species , susceptible , as a rule , to the attacks of only one " biologic form , " is affected by an injury\#151 ; such as a cut or burn\#151 ; the leaf-cells in the neighbourhood of the injury are rendered susceptible to the attacks of other " biologic forms .
" It is evident , and we have clear experimental proof of the fact , that such injured leaves will serve as " bridges , " enabling a " biologic form , " restricted in its parasitism , as a rule , to one genus , to pass over to the host-species of another genus .
We can see , now , more of the factors at work in the evolution of " biologic forms .
" We find , on the one hand , factors , which we may call " specialising factors , " tending to make specialisation of parasitism more and more complete , with the result that there originate from each morphological species a number of " biologic forms , " each one of which is incapable of infecting healthy leaves of any hut its own host-species " BIOLOGIC FORMS " OF THE ER YSIlTi ACE7E .
113 .
or group of host-species .
This breakiug-up of a morphological species into " biologic forms " rigidly fixed in the sexual ( ascosporic ) stage as well as in the asexual ( conidial ) stage , would , we may believe , lead ultimately to the evolution of new morphological varieties or species .
I have already ( 5 , p. 2G4 ) pointed out that some " biologic forms " show in the conidial stage distinctive characteristics in the colour of the conidia , and , in some cases , a further difference is found in the size of the conidia .
But we find antagonistic factors at work , which we may term " generalising factors .
" When the vitality of the leaf-cells of a host-plant is affected by injury in certain ways , other " biologic forms " than the one specially adapted to it become capable of infecting it , and , as experiments have shown , conidia produced on these injured places are at once capable of infecting uninjured leaves of the same species .
Thus the separate streams of evolving " biologic forms " are liable to flow into each other .
As to the actual manner in which the injury to a leaf causes it to become susceptible to a " biologic form " otherwise unable to infect it , the following explanation may be given tentatively .
The phenomena of adaptive parasitism shown by the Erysiphacece so closely resemble those found in the that the hypothesis put forward by Marshall Ward ( 6 ) ( 7 ) as to the factors governing infection and immunity may be advanced for the Erysiphacece also .
This hypothesis assumes the existence of enzymes or toxins , or both , in the cells of the fungus , and of anti-toxins , or similar substances , in the cells of the host-plant .
Now , in connection with the above experiments , we may suppose that the leaf-cells of wheat , barley , \amp ; c. , contain substances peculiar to each species , which when the cells are vigorous and the leaf is uninjured , are able to prevent the successful attack of any mildew except the one " biologic form " which has become specialised to overcome the resistance .
When the vitality of the cells , however , becomes affected by injury , either these substances are destroyed , or become weakened , or the production of them by the protoplasm is interfered with , in the leaf-cells in the neighbourhood of the injury , with the result that the conidia of other " biologic forms " are now able to infect them , since they no longer meet with any special substance able to injure them .
I would point out here that the present experiments furnish conclusive and direct proof that , as regards the Erysiphacece , the immunity of a certain host-species against the attacks of other " biologic forms " than its own in no way depends on any anatomical or structural peculiarities\#151 ; such as hairs , ribs , thickness of the cell-wall or cuticle , or the chemical nature of the cell-wall , \amp ; c.\#151 ; since in the experiments where a " cut " leaf became susceptible to a " biologic form ' otherwise incapable of infecting it , the conidia were sown on the uninjured epidermis of the leaf .
It seems to me possible also that we may find in the facts shown by the above experiments the explanation of a phenomenon which so frequently confronts plant- Q VOL. CXCVII .
- B. MR. E. S. SALMON ON CULTURAL EXPERIMENTS WITH pathologists , viz. , the sudden appearance of a parasitic fungus disease on plants which had hitherto proved immune .
As the above experiments prove , it needs only an injury to be made to the leaves of certain plants in order to render them susceptible to disease , although otherwise they remain immune ; and since , as experiments further proved , when the fungus has gained a footing on the injured parts , it can at once spread to uninjured parts , we can see how plants , the leaves of which have been injured by animals , hail , storms of winds , \amp ; c. , may become the starting-point of a new disease .
It is worthy of note that the cases in which conidia of one " biologic form " were sown on the cut surface of the leaf of a host-species of another " biologic form , " and proved under these conditions able to infect a plant otherwise immune to it , present a close and interesting parallel to the biological facts obtaining in the class of parasitic fungi known as " wound parasites " \#151 ; , , , Cucurbitaria , Peziza willkommii , \amp ; c.\#151 ; which are able to infect their hosts only through a wound .
My sincere thanks are due to Professor Marshall Ward , F.R.S. , for his kind assistance and permission to carry out this work in the Cambridge University Botanical Laboratory .
Summary of Experiments .
I. Experiments in which Conidia of one " Bi " o/ E. Graminis were Sown on " Cut " Leaves of a Host-plant of another " Biologic Form .
" In all the following experiments conidia were sown on " cut " leaves belonging to a species whose uninjured leaves had been proved to be immune to these conidia .
Conidia from Triticum vulgar Sown on " " Leaves of Hordeum vulgar .
( Experiments Nos. a , h , c , e-j .
) In these nine experiments fifty-eight leaves of H. vulgar were sown with conidia from T. vulgar , the leaves being " cut , " and the method of culture adopted as described above .
Infection resulted on forty-six ot the leaves , the conidia producing patches of mycelium with little groups of conidiophores and ripe conidia on thirty-seven leaves , and on the remaining nine leaves patches of mycelium only.# Penetration of haustoria into the epidermal cells took place after 18 hours , and was at once followed by the vigorous growth of the first haustorium ( which soon became lobed by the development of finger-like processes ) , and the production of hyphal branches from the appressorium of the germinating conidium .
By about the * The latter fact I believe to be clue to these leaves dying before the fungus had time to produce conidiophores , and not to the occasional inability of the fungus to produce conidia under the conditions of culture used .
" BIOLOGIC FORMS " OF THE EKYSIPHACEHS .
fourth day the bulbous bases of the first conidiophores were visible , and by 6-8 days little groups of conidiophores with chains of ripe conidia were formed .
These persisted up to the tenth or eleventh day , sometimes becoming covered with little powdery heaps of accumulated ripe conidia .
None of the thirty-six control leaves used in these experiments showed any signs ot a fungus , and no fungus appeared on the " cut " leaves except at the place of inoculation .
The leaves used in the experiments were taken from young seedling plants , and were usually at once " cut " and inoculated ; in a few cases , however , the leaves were kept with their stalks in water 18 hours after being removed from the plant ( in the afternoon ) .
The leaves , which had become somewhat flaccid , were then " cut " and inoculated , and nine of fourteen leaves became infected\#151 ; the fungus on seven of the leaves producing conidiophores .
As a rule , the leaf-tissue in the neighbourhood of the " cut " began to change colour in 5-8 days , and the leaves in 11-15 days became yellowish or whitish throughout , and dead , or nearly dead .
In some cases several " cuts , " or even holes , were made in the neighbourhood of the inoculated place , and leaves so treated were as strongly infected\#151 ; if not more so\#151 ; as when only one " cut " was made .
In some cases conidia were sown at marked places on uninjured leaves\#151 ; removed from the plant , but not " cut"\#151 ; and placed side by side with inoculated " cut''leaves .
No infection resulted on the uninjured leaves .
An uninjured wheat leaf , however , inoculated and treated in the same way , was virulently infected , and after eight days bore a powdery Oidium-patch .
In one experiment , six " cut " leaves and six uncut leaves of barley were floated on water in a large Petri dish , and also two uncut wheat leaves .
All the leaves were sown with conidia from wheat .
On the seventh day five of the " cut " barley leaves showed vigorous patches of mycelium bearing little groups of conidiophores ; no signs of infection occurred on the uncut barley leaves , while the wheat leaves were covered continuously at the marked place \#151 ; 1 centim. wide\#151 ; with powdery Oidium-patches .
In another experiment six pieces of barley leaves , f\#151 ; 1 inch long , were " cut " and inoculated .
By the sixth day the pieces of leaves had all turned yellow , and were nearly dead ; three leaves , however , bore vigorous mycelial patches .
On the eighth day one leaf bore a few conidiophores .
Conidia from T. vulgar Sown on " Cut " Leaves of Hordeum sylvaticum .
( Experiments Nos. s , Nine leaves were sown , and on four full infection took place , resulting in the production , in 5-6 days , of groups of conidiophores , with chains of ripe conidia .
The fungus continued to grow vigorously , and gave rise , in 11-14 days , to luxuriant powdery Oidium-patches , which persisted for over 3 weeks .
In one case , where three leaves were inoculated , a group of conidiophores appeared on one leaf exactly over the middle of the " cut , " on the second leaf over the edge of the " cut , " and on the third leaf at a spot about 1 millim. from it .
( The leaves of this species of grass Q MR. E. S. SALMON ON CULTURAL EXPERIMENTS WITH IK ) possess the power of living for a long time after being removed from the plant .
Leaves cut off and placed in a Petri dish on damp blotting-paper remain fresh and green for over 5 weeks .
) Conicliafrom T. vulgar Sown on " Cut " Leaves of A vena sativa .
( Experiment No. IA .
) Six leaves were inoculated .
On the fourth day all the leaves had turned reddish-green , and were nearly dead .
On two leaves lobed haustoria were formed , and small patches of mycelial hyphse .
The six control leaves were all free .
No further growth of the fungus was observed , and on the eighth day the leaves were dead .
Conidiafrom Hordeum vulgar Sown on " Cut " Leaves of Triticum vulgar .
( Experiments Nos. d , , vl .
) In the first experiment five " cut " leaves and five uninjured leaves of T. vulgar and one uninjured leaf of Hordeum vulgar were inoculated , and placed side by side in a large Petri dish .
By the second day large lobed haustoria were formed on three of the five " cut " wheat leaves .
On the seventh day four of the " cut " wheat leaves were infected with vigorous mycelial patches , one of which bore a few conidiophores ; the uncut wheat leaves showed no signs of infection ; while the uncut barley leaf was covered at the marked place with dense almost continuous patches .
In another case twelve leaves of rl\ vulgar were removed from seedling plants , and placed with the ends in water for 3 days .
They were then all " cut , " and six of them inoculated and placed side by side in a large Petri dish .
On the second day penetration of haustoria had occurred in all the inoculated " cut " leaves .
By the fourth day all the six inoculated leaves bore small mycelial patches over the " cuts " ; no signs of any fungus were visible elsewhere on these leaves , nor on the six control leaves .
By the eighth day all the leaves were nearly dead ; mycelial patches were distinct on all the inoculated leaves , but no conidiophores were observed .
In the other experiments five uncut barley leaves and sixteen uncut wheat leaves were inoculated at marked places .
By the sixth day all the barley leaves were virulently infected with Oidium-patches ; no signs of infection appeared on the wheat leaves .
Conidia from H. vulgar Sown on " Cut'1 ' ' Leaves of H. murinum .
( Experiment No. n. ) Seven " cut " leaves were inoculated .
After 18 hours penetration of haustoria had occurred on three leaves .
At the end of 7 days all the leaves had turned yellow and were nearly dead ; patches of interwoven mycelial hyphse occurred on four leaves , but no conidiophores were observed .
Conidia from II .
vulgar Sown on " Cut " Leaves Avena sativa .
( Experiment No. Z ; l. ) Six " cut " leaves were inoculated .
By the fourth day all the leaves had turned " BIOLOGIC FORMS " OF THE ERYSTPHA .
CEHL reddish-green and were nearly dead ; on one leaf a small hut vigorous patch of mycelial hyphse occurred .
Leaves dead on the eighth day .
Conidia fromH .
vulgar Sown on " " Leaves of H. sylvaticum .
( Experiments Nos. 67# , 82# .
) In a previous infection-experiment ( No. conidia of the " biologic form " on IT .
vulgar were sown on three uninjured leaves of growing plants ( in a pot ) of II .
sylvaticum .
No infection resulted .
Twelve leaves from this pot of II .
were then removed from the plants , and of these six were " cut " and sown with conidia from H. vulgar ; the remaining six were not " cut " and were sown at marked places on the lower and upper epidermis with conidia from the same source\#151 ; one of the originally inoculated leaves of Experiment 67b being used in each lot .
The twelve leaves were placed side by side in a large Petri dish .
On the third day four of the six " cut " leaves were infected , numerous haustoria and hyphal branches proceeding from the appressorium being present ; one of these infected leaves was a leaf previously used in Experiment 67b .
On the seventh day all the six " cut " leaves showed vigorous mycelial patches .
On the seventeenth day four of the " cut " leaves ( including the leaf from Experiment 67b ) showed groups of conidiophores .
No infection took place of the six uninjured cut-off leaves .
In the second experiment three " cut " leaves of H. sylvaticum were inoculated .
After 16 hours several haustoria had penetrated into the epidermal cells .
On the fourth day the three leaves showed small patches of mycelium .
On the sixth day small groups of conidiophores appeared on two of the leaves ; by the eighth day little patches powdery with conidia were visible over the " cuts " on all three leaves .
Conidia from H. sylvaticum Sown on " Cut " Leaves of Triticum vulgar .
( Experiments Nos. si , .rl .
) Seven leaves were taken direct from young seedling plants of T. vulgar , and " cut " and inoculated ; three control leaves were placed at their side .
On the fourth day virulent infection , as shown by the formation of very numerous large lobed haustoria and hyphal branches had taken place on five of the leaves over the " cuts .
" On the sixth day the mycelial patches on these five leaves bore little groups of densely clustered conidiophores , and on the tenth day patches quite powdery with little masses of conidia .
( These conidia were sown on an uninjured leaf of T. vulgar , and caused full infection .
) No trace of any fungus appeared elsewhere on the " cut " leaves , or on the control leaves .
Conidia from Bromus commutatus Sown on " Cut " Leaves Hordeum sylvaticum .
( Experiment No. o. ) Seven leaves were inoculated .
By the fifth day small patches of mycelial hyphse were formed on two leaves .
By the fifteenth day fairly vigorous but barren mycelial patches were visible on two leaves over the " cuts .
" Conidia fromB .
commutatus Sown on " " Leaves of B. racemosus .
( Experiment No. Nine leaves were inoculated .
On the seventh day the leaf-tissue was nearly dead in the neighbourhood of the " cut " places ; on one leaf a distinct mycelial patch was evident over the " cut .
" By the tenth day all the leaves were dead .
Conidia from B. commutatus Sown on " Cut " of B. asper .
( Experiment No. ml .
) Twelve leaves were inoculated .
On the fifth day the beginning of a mycelial patch was visible on one leaf .
On the ninth day this leaf showed a vigorous patch of mycelium hearing a few conidiophores .
On the eleventh day a few conidiophores were still visible on the one leaf , but all the leaves were nearly dead in the neighbourhood of the " cuts .
" Conidia from B. secalinus Sown on " " of Hordeum vulgar .
( Experiment No. y. ) Six leaves were inoculated .
On the fourth day a small mycelial patch was visible on one leaf over the " cut .
" By the sixth day the patch of mycelium had increased , but all the leaves were beginning to die rapidly .
On the ninth day all the leaves were dead .
Conidia from B. secalinus Sown on " Cut " of B. asper .
( Experiment No. il .
) Five leaves were inoculated .
On the third day one leaf bore a patch of mycelium ; on the sixth day four young conidiophores appeared on this leaf , over the " cut " ; the leaf-tissue in the neighbourhood of the " cuts " was dead on all other leaves .
On the twelfth day the one infected leaf was also dead .
Conidia from B. velutinus Sown on " Cut " Leaves of Hordeum vulgar .
( Experiment No. Twelve " cut " leaves were placed in a large Petri dish , and six inoculated .
On the third day three leaves were infected , and showed numerous lobed haustoria and the beginnings of mycelial patches .
On the fifth day these three leaves showed vigorous mycelial patches over the " cuts " ; no fungus was visible elsewhere on these leaves , nor on the six controls .
On the thirteenth day two of the infected leaves bore respectively two and three young conidiophores .
No further growth was made by the fungus , in consequence , apparently , of the leaves now rapidly dying .
By the eighteenth day all the leaves were dead , " BIOLOGIC FORMS " OF THE FRYS I FRAGILE .
Conkliafrom Avena strigosa Sown on " Cut " Loaves of Hordeum vulgar .
( Experiment No. .
) Seven leaves were inoculated .
On the second day haustoria were visible on three leaves .
On the fourth day a vigorous mycelial patch was formed on one leaf .
By the sixth day three leaves bore vigorous patches of mycelium ; no conidiophores were observed .
On the ninth day the mycelial patches were still evident , but all the leaves were nearly dead .
Conidiafrom A. strigosa Sown on " Cut " Leaves of Triticum vulgar .
( Experiment No. w2 .
) Seven leaves were inoculated .
On the second day lobed haustoria formed on three leaves .
On the fourth day vigorous mycelial patches formed on two leaves .
By the sixth day these patches were overrun by other fungi , stopping further growth of the Oidium .
On the ninth day the mycelial patches were all killed by the growth of other fungi .
\#169 ; 2 .
Experiments in which Conidia of E. Graminis were Sown on " Cut " Leaves of " Immune " Species of Plants .
Conidia from Triticum vulgar Sown on " Gut Leaves T. dicoccum .
( Experiments Nos. u , iv .
) In the first experiment six of the seven inoculated leaves became fully infected , and from the first the fungus behaved as though sown on its own host-species .
On the second day virulent infection was shown on six leaves by the abundant formation of large lobed haustoria and the production of numerous hyphal branches .
On the third day the bulbous bases of young conidiophores appeared on the mycelial patches , and on the fourth day groups of densely clustered ripe conidiophores .
In the second experiment five of the eighteen inoculated leaves were infected and produced conidiophores .
In the third , four of nine leaves were infected .
The leaves of T. dicoccum die in 11-12 days , usually smelling foetidly of putrefaction .
Frequently the infected spots remained of a vivid green colour when the rest of the leaf had turned pale yellow or brown .
Conidia from T. vulgar Sown on " " Leaves of T. monococcum .
( Experiment No. Seven leaves were inoculated .
On the second day lobed haustoria were formed on five leaves , and by the sixth day conidiophores , on vigorous mycelial patches , were produced on these leaves .
By the fourth day the leaves began to die and turn brown round the " cuts , " and by the eleventh all the leaves smelt of putrefaction and were nearly dead .
3 .
Experiments in which Conidia produced on " Cut Leaves ivere Sown on other " Cut " Leaves .
Conidia Produced on " Cat " Leaves of Hordeum vulgar by Inoculation Conidia from Triticum vulgar Sown on " Cut " Leaves H. vulgar .
( Experiment No. ol .
) Six " cut " leaves were placed side by side , and three were inoculated ( only a very lieu conidia were available for this experiment ) .
On the sixth day a vigorous mycelial patch was formed over the " cut " on one leaf ; the control leaves were all free .
On the tenth day this patch bore two conidiophores with chains of ripe conidia , and several young conidiophores .
On the sixteenth day a little group of conidiophores with an almost powdery mass of ripe conidia was visible on the one leaf ; all the leaves were now rapidly dying .
Conidia Produced on " Cut " Leaves of Hordeum sylvaticum by Inoculation with Conidia from Triticum vulgar Sown on " Cut Leaves of T. vulgar .
( Experiments Nos. bl , el , g1 , hi , r , r 1 .
) In these experiments twenty-two leaves were inoculated , ^and infection resulted on eleven leaves .
In two cases quite powdery O^mm-patches appeared in 5-6 days on some of the inoculated leaves , and\#151 ; all the experiments being safeguarded by controls\#151 ; it is quite clear that under the conditions created the form of E. Graminis on Hordeum sylvaticum can fully and virulently infect Triticum vulgar .
To illustrate the course of growth a summary of one experiment may be given here .
Conidia ol the fungus growing on " cut " leaves of II .
sylvaticum ( which had been inoculated on August 18 with conidia from T. vulgar , and which bore at the date of the present experiment\#151 ; August 29\#151 ; small powdery On/ mm-patches ) were sown on four " cut " leaves of T. mdgare , and four " cut " control leaves placed by their side .
On the third day three of the inoculated leaves showed signs of virulent infection , the conidia having produced numerous lobed haustoria and hyphal branches .
In fact , the virulence of infection shown here was as great as any observed in the Petri dish cultures .
On the fifth day one leaf bore over the " cut " a large and vigorous Oidium-patch , quite powdery with little masses of ripe conidia ; the two other leaves , also , bore each a smaller group of ripe conidiophores .
All the controls remained perfectly free .
On the eighth day two of the three infected leaves bore powdery patches ; the four controls showed no signs of a fungus .
On the eleventh day all the leaves were dead .
Conidia Produced on " Cut " Leaves of Hordeum sylvaticum by Inoculation with Conidia from Triticum vulgar Sown on " Cut " Leaves of T. dicoccum .
( Experiment No. nl .
) Six " cut " leaves were placed side by side , and three inoculated .
On the tilth day " BIOLOGIC FORMS " OF THE ERYSIPH ACEiE .
two of the inoculated leaves bore over the " cuts " little groups of 3-7 conidiophores with chains of ripe conidia ; the third inoculated leaf bore a vigorous patch of mycelial hyphse .
All the controls were perfectly free .
On the eighth day all three leaves bore vigorous little patches of Oidiumalmost powdery with massed conidia ; controls all free .
On the fifteenth day a few conidiophores were still visible , but the leaves were all nearly dead .
Conidia Produced on " Cut " Leaves ofHordeum sylvaticum by Inoculation Conidia from Triticum vulgar Sown on " Cut " Leaves of Hordeum vulgar .
( Experiment No. \#163 ; 1 .
) Ten leaves were " cut " and five inoculated .
On the seventh day small but vigorous patches of mycelium were formed over the " cuts " on two leaves .
On the ninth day three of the five inoculated leaves bore over the " cuts " mycelial patches with young conidiophores ; the five control leaves all free .
On the thirteenth day the three infected leaves bore little groups of conidiophores with chains of ripe conidia .
On the fifteenth day the same ; but all the leaves were now nearly dead ; controls still free .
Conidia Produced on " Cut " Leaves of Hordeum sylvaticum by Inoculation Conidia from H. vulgar Sown on Cut Leaves of Secale cereale .
( Experiment No. pi .
) Six leaves were inoculated .
After 6 days two conidia had produced on one leaf short hyphal branches from the appressorium , after penetration of the haustoria , and penetration of several other haustoria had occurred .
( What appeared to be failure of the haustorium to develop in the epidermal cell after penetration was observed in several instances .
) After 13 days , one small mycelial patch was visible over the " cut " on the one leaf , no conidiophores were observed ; all the leaves were now dead .
Conidia Produced on " Cut " Leaves of Triticum dicoccum by Inoculation with Conidia from T. vulgar Sown on " Cut " Leaves of T. dicoccum .
( Experiment No. q. ) Three leaves were inoculated .
On the second day vigorous infection was evident on two leaves , large lobed haustoria and vigorous mycelial hyphee being present .
On the fifth day the mycelial patches were still growing vigorously , but all the leaves were turned yellow , and nearly dead .
Conidia Produced on " Cut " Leaves of Hordeum sylvaticum by Inoculation with Conidia from H. vulgar Sown on " Cut " Leaves of Triticum vulgar .
( Experiments Nos. dl , fl. ) Eight leaves were inoculated .
On four of these the germinating conidia produced VOL. cxcvii , \#151 ; b , R 122 CULTURAL EXPERIMENTS WITH " BIOLOGIC FORMS " OF ER Y SI PH A CEiE .
in 7 days fairly vigorous mycelial patches and numerous large lobed haustoria .
No conidiophores were observable on the eleventh day , by which time all the leaves were dead .
Conidia Produced on " Cut " Leaves of Hordeum sylvaticum by Inoculation Conidia from H. vulgar Sown on " Leaves of H. sylvaticum .
( Experiments Nos. t , v , x. ) Nine leaves were inoculated , and infection resulted on four .
Conidiophores were produced in 4-6 days , and after 14 days small powdery patches were produced , which persisted , keeping powdery with accumulated conidia , for as long as a month from the date of the sowing of the conidia , Conidia Produced on " Cut " Leaves of Hordeum sylvaticum by Inoculation Conidia on " Cut " Leaves of H. sylvaticum Produced by Inoculation with Conidia from H. vulgar Sown on " Cut " Leaves of H. sylvaticum .
( Experiments Nos. cl , q 1 .
) Two leaves were inoculated and both became infected .
A small but vigorous patch of mycelium , bearing groups of conidiophores , appeared in 10 days , and this became powdery with the massed conidia by the twelfth day .
A large continuous powdery Oidium-patch , measuring 6 millims. by 3 millims. , was produced over the " cut " on one leaf at the end of 4 weeks from the sowing of the conidia .
Bibliography .
1 .
Neger , F. W. " Beitrage sir Biologie der 'Flora , ' vol. 00 , pp. 242-267 , 1902 .
2 .
Marchal , E. " De la specialisation du parasitisme chez ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 135 , pp. 210-212 , 1902 .
3 .
Idem .
Loc .
cit. , vol. 136 , 1280-1281 , 1903 .
4 .
Salmon , E. S. " Infection-powers of ascospores in Erysiphacece , " ' Journ. of Bot. , ' vol. 41 , pp. 159-165 , 204-212 , 1903 .
5 .
Idem .
" On Specialization of Parasitism in the ' Beihefte z. Botan. Centralbl .
, ' vol. 14 , pp. 261-315 , 1903 .
6 .
Ward , H. Marshall .
" On the Relations between Host and Parasite in the Bromes and their Brown Rust , Puccinia dispersa ( Erikss .
) " 'Annals of Botany , ' vol. 16 , pp. 233-315 , 1902 .
7 .
Idem .
" Experiments on the Effect of Mineral Starvation on the Parasitism of the Uredine Fungus , Puccinia dispersa , on species of Bromus " ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 71 , p. 151 , 1902 .
[ 123 ] VI .
The Physiological Action and Antidotes of and Snake Venoms .
By Leonard Rogers , M.D. , B.S. , M.R.C.P. .
Han Medical Service .
INDEX SLIP .
London .
) Received and Read November 19 , 1903 .
Rogers , Leonard\#151 ; The Physiological Action and Antidotes of Colubrine and Viperine Snake Venoms .
Phil. Trans. , B , vol. 197 , 1904 , pp. 123-191 .
Page Cobra venom , action and antidotes of . .
Rogers , Leonard .
Phil. Trans. , B , vol. 197 , 1904 , pp. 123-191 .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
... ... ... ... ... ... 125 Colubrinc snake-venoms ( Naia Bungirus , Bungarus fasciatus , B. coeruleus ) , ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .126 action of ; antidotal powers of Calmette 's anfcivenin .
Rogers , Leonard .
Phil. Trans. , B , vol. 197 , 1904 , pp. 123-191 .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... .126 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .127 Snake-venoms , colubrine and viperine\#151 ; action and antidotes .
( Tracing I. ) . . . .
127 Rogers , Leonard .
Phil. Trans. , B , vol. 197 , 1904 , pp. 123-191 .
Yipcrine snake-venoms ( Daboia Russellii , African Puff-adder , Crotalus ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .^ horridus , Trimeresurus Anamallensis ) \#151 ; physiological action of ; J3Q probable antivenin for .
Rogers , Leonard .
Phil. Trans. , B , vol. 197 , 1904 , pp. 123-191 .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... .130 M. ' ii. .
action ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .131 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .131 --------------\#166 ; \#151 ; -------------\#151 ; \#151 ; f pressure . . . .
132 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .133 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .134 b.rrf-- ?
:\gt ; !
' * \#166 ; .
in ' .
L\gt ; \ . .
t : e ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 135 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .136 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 137 !
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .137 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .138 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .138 ns of the Hydrophidse and Indian Coin ; .\#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; snake* . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... .139 I,..Cobra ( KeaiuiaL ) * .
... ... ... ... ... ... 140 II.\#151 ; Ditto ( Gokumiir- ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .140 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .141 TV .
\#151 ; Krait . . . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... .142 V.\#151 ; Banded Krait . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .142 VI.\#151 ; Enhydrina .
... .
... ... ... ... . . .
1^4 . . . . . . .
145 ( 230 .
) H 2 30.6.04 .

