66 Dr. M. Wilderman .
On Chemical Dynamics [ Jan. 30 , wrong in the water .
And once the gills are affected , there is little chance of the fish escaping .
The whole habits of the salmon , in short , render it peculiarly liable to this form of poisoning .
Summary .
Chemical analysis of the Spurge-extract shows that it contains tannic acid .
Experiments on the circulation in the lung and mesentery of the frog reveal a close similarity between the action of the Spurge-extract and of tannic acid .
In the case of trout the similarity extends to the non-recovery of the fish in fresh water , after they have come under the influence of either Spurge-extract or tannic acid .
The power of the Spurge-extract to produce fatal effects persists for several days without diminution .
Twenty per cent , of the fresh extract is fatal within 5 minutes , whilst O'Ol per cent , takes 4 to 6 hours , and seems to be the smallest percentage which has fatal results .
In the case of fishes , death is considered to ensue from the inflammation of the gills and consequent stasis of the circulation , set up by the action of the tannic-acid component of the Spurge-extract .
The fresh extract is calculated roughly to contain about 1 per cent , of tannic acid , but on this estimation the Spurge-extract is fatal within a shorter period than the corresponding quantity of tannic acid .
Hence , the percentage of tannic acid has been under-estimated , or some other substance or substances in the extract also aid in producing fatal effects .
" On Chemical Dynamics and Statics under the Action of Light .
" By Meyer Wilderman , Ph. D. , B.Sc. ( Oxon .
) .
Communicated by Dr. Ludwig Mond , F.RS .
Received January 30 , \#151 ; Read February 13th , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) Since the second half of the last century chemical statics and dynamics have developed into a veritable science of their own .
The general law governing velocity of chemical reaction and chemical equilibrium in homogeneous systems is now known as the law of action of mass ; * the law governing velocity of physical or molecular transformations in heterogeneous systems proves also to be of a general and simple nature : the velocity is directly proportional to the surface of contact of the reacting parts and to the remoteness of the system from the point of equilibrium ; !
the velocity of chemical * Wilhelmy , Haroourt and Esson , Guldberg and Waage , Va n't Hoff .
f M. Wilderman , 'Zeitschrift fur Physikalische Chemie , ' 1899 , and especially ' Phil. Mag. , ' July , 1901 .
1902 .
] and Statics under the Action of Light .
67 reaction in heterogeneous systems and chemical equilibrium in heterogeneous systems represent no phenomena sui , and the laws governing them are only combinations of the other two laws mentioned.* The laws concerning equilibrium have found their rational explanation and foundation in the researches of Horstmann , and foremost of W. Gibbs and Ya n't Hoff ; the laws concerning velocity of reaction in homogeneous systems in the thermodynamic considerations of Ya n't Hoff .
In all the above researches the phenomena of chemical reaction and of chemical equilibrium are the outcome of the intrinsic properties of matter , always existent in and inseparable from the same , and which we usually call chemical affinity or chemical potential .
But , as we know , a system can also be brought into a state of reaction , new systems , new equilibria , can be formed when energy from an external source , such as light or electricity , is introduced into the same .
The effect of an electric current upon a chemical system is given by Faraday 's law for electrolysis .
The thermodynamic connection between chemical and electrical ( and gravitation ) energy is given by W. Gibbs .
What are now the laws governing the velocity of chemical reaction and chemical equilibrium when they are caused ( not only influenced ) by the introduction of light into the system % Is the velocity directly proportional to the amount of the light energy introduced or absorbed by the system in the unit of time , independent of the reacting masses or concentrations , i.e. , have we to expect here a law analogous to that of Faraday for electrolysis ?
or is the velocity of reaction some function of the reacting masses 1 What are the laws governing chemical equilibrium in light ?
It is evident that to furnish an answer to these problems careful experiments , quantitative measurements bearing straight upon the fundamental issues in question , were absolutely needed , and the help of the principles of thermodynamics in giving a rational explanation to the fundamental facts elicited by experiments had to be sought for .
The experimental work , started at the Davy-Faraday laboratory of the Royal Institution , in 1898 , proved to be of very great difficulty , resolving itself into the solution of a series of other problems lying beyond the region of its immediate purpose , and only after two and a-half years of preliminary work the author succeeded for the first time in getting results , which allowed sure insight into the nature of the phenomena under consideration .
From the hundreds of reactions which are known to be caused or influenced by light , !
there are not half a dozen which are suitable for quantitative measurements .
The reaction used must be caused and # See the same paper , c Zeits .
fur Phys. Cliemie/ 1899 .
t Eder 's 6 Handbuch der Photographies 68 Dr. M. Wilderman .
On Chemical Dynamics [ Jan. 30 , effected by light only , and not only be accelerated by the same ; it must stop as soon as light is removed , i.e. , the phenomena under consideration must be studied in their purest form and not be complicated by other phenomena as well .
Bunsen and Roscoe 's reaction IJ-2 + CI2 = 2HC1 belongs to this class of reactions , but it cannot be used for a series of reasons , in the first instance because the chemical reaction is accompanied by no variation in volume .
The reaction .
ultimately chosen by the author was that of Davy : CO + CI2 = COCI2 .
This reaction is accompanied by a variation of the volume , 1 volume of CO+1 volume CI2 giving 1 volume of COCl2 , the velocity of reaction could be uninterruptedly studied from the variation of the manometer , connected with the glass bulb or quartz vessel containing the two gases .
The CO and CI2 were used for the reaction dry .
Under such circumstances the reaction goes on only with a small speed , so that to be able to investigate this reaction the problem of getting a powerful light ( of 250 or 500 candle power ) , which would remain constant in intensity and composition for any length of time required , and which would be at the same time of great actinic properties , had to be solved .
The light of the sun could not be used , and the arc light changes both in intensity and composition .
Dr. Ludwig Mond suggested the use of the acetylene light for the purpose .
Having first modified the " Icanto " acetylene generator of Thorn and Hoddle , so that it should not give greater variations in pressure than 1^ per cent. , instead of 10 per cent. , and having further constructed a special burner , which gives a perfectly pure , smokeless , circular flame of 250 ( or 500 candle power or more ) on the space of about 1 inch , the author reduced the variations in the intensity and composition of the flame to about 1\#151 ; per cent. , by the use of a balance governor , and by taking special precautions to expel the air from the generator .
By means of a thermopyle , galvanometer , regulating tap , \amp ; c. , the intensity of the light could be easily adjusted to about 0T per cent. The author used a Rubens ' thermopyle , having taken special precautions to make its indications concordant , and the thermoelectromotive force of the same in the dark not to exceed 1 or 2 mm. , even when the room was heated by the powerful light of the acetylene burner for many hours .
The galvanometer used was a sensitive Crompton of the D'Arsonval type .
The adjustment of the flame was arranged to 0 1 per cent. , though it could be arranged with a. very much greater accuracy by the use of a more sensitive galvanometer ( say , of a Nalder and Bros ) , or of a thermopyle of 1 square decimetre surface instead of 2 square centimetres .
The value of the read intensity of light was further checked by reading the deflections of the Crompton by means of a Clark cell and standard manganin resistances .
As it was found that exceedingly small traces of air or of water 1902 .
] \lt ; mw ?
Statics under the Action of Light .
69 vapour , which are most difficult to detect with ordinary chemical or physical means , are quite enough to diminish or accelerate the velocity of combination of CI2 and CO , quite extraordinary precautions in the preparation of perfectly pure CO and CI2 had to be taken .
The carbon monoxide was prepared in the manner given by Lord Rayleigh , i.e. , from sodium formate ( 35 gr. ) , two parts sulphuric acid ( 200 gr. ) , and one part of water ( 100 gr. ) .
The other precautions taken were :\#151 ; All the vessels were first heated and evacuated by means of a Topler pump to about 0*01 mm. ; all the liquids used were first boiled in a vacuum so as to expel the air , carbonic acid , \amp ; c. , from the same .
To free the generated CO from the last traces of sulphurous acid and carbonic acid the gas was passed through a solution of caustic potash free from air , then through a U-tube containing solid caustic potash , and a long tube containing phosphorus pentoxide .
The first portion of the prepared CO was removed , all the vessels having been again heated and evacuated , and the vessels then filled with CO ; before each experiment on light the CO was first removed from all the vessels and new CO prepared .
Only quite freshly prepared CO could be used for the experiments .
The chlorine was prepared by heating of-perfectly pure and dry cupric chloride ( CuCL ) free from hydrochloric acid , which , if it is once formed , is almost impossible to remove from the same .
The CuCL was prepared from precipitated copper and dry chlorine .
The copper was first reduced in a tube with drawn-out ends in a current of hydrogen , the hydrogen removed by evacuation .
A dry current of CI2 , washed and well dried , was passed over the copper first in the cold , then while the copper was heated to about 250 ' , and then the tube sealed up at the two drawn-out ends .
The tube was afterwards connected with another tube containing phosphorus pentoxide .
The vessels , in which CO and CI2 were prepared , were connected with the quartz vessel or the glass bulb in which the gases were exposed to light by means of capillary tubes , and the quartz vessel or glass bulb was connected with a manometer , the mercury of which was protected from the action of CI2 by a column of concentrated sulphuric acid free from air on the top in the capillary .
The quartz vessel consisted of a short glass cylinder with glass rims , on which two quartz windows were fixed , and it contained a thermocouple to indicate the temperature of the gas during the reaction .
Before the gases were introduced into the quartz vessel , the quartz vessel , manometer , \amp ; c. , were evacuated and heated and washed with CO , the CI2 and CO completely removed ( the chlorine by tiieans of a removable pump ) , all the vessels again heated and evacuated to about 0-01 mm. , the CI2 and CO again freshly prepared in the dark ( on account of the properties of the deduction periods ) , introduced into the quartz vessel under special conditions , and here sealed up with a hand blow-pipe .
70 Dr. M. Wilder man .
On Chemical Dynamics [ Jan. 30 .
The quartz vessel with the manometer was then placed in a large water bath of a regulated and constant temperature , behind a quartz window , and here exposed to the acetylene light .
At suitable intervals the temperature of the bath ( read to 0'*01 ) , the height of the mercury and sulphuric acid column in the manometer ( read with the catheto-meter ) , the barometer pressure and temperature ( read with the vernier ) , and the intensity of light { i.e. , the deflections of the galvanometer by the Rubens ' thermopyle and the thermoelectromotive force of the same ) were observed .
This allowed of knowing the exact amount of COCl2 formed , or of CO and Cl2 present in the gas mixture at any time r. In this manner the " author succeeded in getting reliable and sufficiently regular curves ( see diagram ) , which admitted an investigation of the phenomena under consideration .
If we take the time ( minutes ) as abscissae and the x or the amount of COCI2 formed up to the time rexpressed in mm. pressure as ordinates , we get the curves of Tables II , III , IV , V , and the variation of x with r , or dxjdr , gives the velocity of formation of COCl2 from CO and Cl2 .
Each of the above curves represents one and the same system .
Curve ( 1 ) , curves ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) bf Table II give the results obtained for the same system in three successive days , as the reaction of combination of Cl2 and CO was further proceeded with .
So also ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the rest of the tables belong for each table to two successive days .
The investigation of the above curves showed that the integral equation [ loS ( A " *1 ) " log ( A ~ \#171 ; 2\gt ; + log ( B - x2 ) - log ( B - a* ) ] : ( t2 - rx ) = K well expresses the same after the periods of induction .had passed .
This period of induction had passed , .
, in curve ( 2 ) , Table II , at observation ( 9 ) , in curve ( 4 ) , Table II , at observation ( 51 ) , in curve ( 1 ) , Table II , at ( 4 ) , in curve ( 2 ) , Table III , at ( 10 ) , \amp ; c. In the above integral equation A and B are the quantities of Cl2 and CO taken at the beginning , before the reaction was started { e.g. , A = 502*4 mm. partial pressure , B = 109*7 mm. partial pressure in the gas mixture of Table II , and A = 224*7 mm. , B = 343*6 mm. in Table III , \amp ; c. ) ; A \#151 ; xand B - xare the quantities of Cl2 and CO present in the system at the time r , K is a constant .
The differential equation giving the law for the velocity of chemical reaction in light is thus dx/ dr = K ( A \#151 ; x ) ( B \#151 ; x ) , i.e. , the velocity of combination of Cl2 and CO in light , or the velocity of formation of COCl2 , is at the time r directly proportional to the product of the reacting masses at the time t. Since the chemical equation for the reaction is 1C12 + 1 CO = 1 COCl2 , this equation has in light the exact form which it ought to have A3 15 !
7 19 2 !
25 25 27 29 31 33 55 72 Dr. M. Wilderman .
On Chemical Dynamics [ Jan. 30 ] ' Z 3 4 5 6 7 8 10 / / X 15 / 4 h ih 181 ~z Curve i. Table V. \#151 ; 7 " ~6t 1902 .
] and Statics under the Action of Light .
73 according to the laws of action of mass , if the same chemical reaction would go on in the dark as the outcome of those intrinsic properties of mailer which we call chemical affinity or chemical potential .
In the above equations K is the velocity constant , which gives the velocity of combination of Cl2 and CO , under given conditions of experiment , when A-x for Cl2 is 1 , and B-a for CO is 1 .
It should be remarked that K in the above equations is the integral velocity-constant for acetylene light , because the value of ( K ) is for each wave-length different .
Since , however , each wave-length has an equation of the same form --- = ( K)(A-a)(B-a ) , the equation for light consisting of more than dr one wave-length remains the same , K or ( K ) is besides a function of the intensity of light , of the temperature , of the chemical nature of the reacting substances , and of the surrounding medium .
The combination of CO and Cl2 was allowed to go on so far as 80-66 per cent , of the total amount of possible combination in Table II and 39-16 per cent , in Table III .
On interruption of the light for different periods and exposing the system again to the light , the induction periods changed according to circumstances , but always the same velocity constant was observed .
This shows that the above equation must truly represent the fundamental law underlying velocity of reaction in light .
The results obtained further show that the velocity of combination af CO and Cl2 cannot possibly be regulated by a law analogous to that of Faraday , because this velocity is neither directly p'i'oportional to the amount of light passing through the system nor to the light absorbed by the same in the unit of time , the calculated values which ought to have given a constant , falling for Table II from 25'2 to 4*14 , and from 40 to 18-6 , and for Table III from 509 to 99 , and from 187 to 136 .
The author further gives instances of chemical equilibria in homogeneous systems in light , in which one of the two opposite reactions goes on only in light , and the other in light and in the dark , and shows that since chemical equilibrium in a homogeneous as is estab- lished , represents a reversible system , in which the two opposite reactions become equal , and since the velocity of each reaction separately follows the law of action of mass , the evidence is given by the above results that chemical equilibrium in homogeneous systems must also and can only follow in light the laws of action of mass , as they follow in the dark .
Besides the above results , the author deals on the basis of the experiments made with the phenomena of chemical induction ( when the system is exposed to light ; first observed by Bunsen and Roscoe ) and of chemical deduction ( when the light is removed from the system ) , as well as with the induction and deduction periods of energy ; he also shows the enormous influence of small traces of air and of water vapour upon the velocity of the reaction ( the first retards , the second accelerates the same ) .
Prof. E. Pay Lankester .
On a Convenient [ Feb. 20 , The laws concerning chemical statics and dynamics in light are here elicited in an experimental way and are of a formal nature .
In a paper now in course of preparation , " On the Connexion between the Light Energy ( or the Energy of Electric Waves ) absorbed by a System and its Chemical , Thermal , Mechanical , and other Energy , " the author shows that the fundamental results , which he first elicited here in an experimental way , as well as some other experimental results bearing upon other fundamental issues in other regions of research , can , among other things , be deduced from thermodynamics , and are a necessary consequence of the same .
In the same manner the induction and deduction periods follow as a necessity from the same general thermodynamic conceptions .
This paper will be communicated in due course in the near future .
" On a Convenient Terminology for the Various Stages of the Malaria Parasite .
" By E. Eay Lankester , M.A. , F.R.S. , Director of the Natural History Department , British Museum .
Received February 20 , \#151 ; Read March 6 , 1902 .
I have found it necessary in labelling a series of models of the malaria parasite in the Central Hall of the Natural History Museum to use as simple and clear a terminology as possible .
I think that this terminology will be found useful by others who are perplexed by such terms as " sporozoites , " " blasts , " " ookinetes , " " schizonts , " " amphi-onts , " and " sporonts " \#151 ; terms which have their place in schemes dealing with the general morphology and life-history of the group Sporozoa , but are not , as experience shows , well suited for immediate use in describing and referring to the stages of the malaria parasite .
It is necessary to treat the malaria parasite from the point of view of malaria ; that is to say , to consider its significant phases to be those which it passes in the human blood .
In reality its mature condition and most important motile , as well as its most prolific reproductive , phases are passed in the body of the mosquito .
1 .
The malaria-germ which is brought by the stab of the Anopheles into the human blood-vessels is a reproductive particle , a sjpore .
It is needle-like in shape , and might be named in reference to its form ( e.g. , oxyspore or raphidiospore ) , but the most important fact about it for description and comparison is that it has been formed outside the human body , and is introduced as a strange element into the human blood by the agency of the mosquito .
I therefore call it the Exoto^ SPORE , 2 .
The Exotospores ( probably as many at a time as forty or fifty ) enter the blood by the agency of the mosquito 's stab and immediately

