]\gt ; On the Explosion at By the late Prince B. GALITZIN , For .
Mem. R.S. On Apri129 , 1915 , at about 8.15 , a violent explosion occurred at the Okhta explosives factory , destroying several buildings and causing a considerable loss of life .
A great number of the inhabitants of the capital heard the explosion , others could see the flames and columns of smoke : many , however , did not notice anything .
The atmospheric pressure-wave caused , by the explosion forced open the windows in many buildings of the capital ; and even in places as distant as Tsarkoe Selo , and Pavlovsk , its effects were very marked .
The barographs installed in the observatories of Petrograd and Pavlovsk , and in the station at Pulkovo , indicated at the time of the explosion the passage of a well-marked condensation wave in the atmosphere , but the corresponding change of atmospheric pressure was very small , not exceeding mm. at Petrograd , mm. at Pulkovo , and mm. at Pavlovsk .
If the barographs had been installed in the open air , and not sheltered from the action of external atmospheric influences , they would undoubtedly have shown greater changes in the atmospheric pressure .
Although , under ordinary conditions , the air-pressure inside and outside a building is always the same , yet in the rapid passage of an intense wave of explosion there would not be time enough for these two pressures to become equal , and it is easy to see , therefore , that the condensation of the air must have been in reality much greater than as shown by the barographs .
In the building of the Principal Physical Observatory the effect of the explosion was very slight , for I was there at the time , and did not notice anything .
It is evident , therefore , that the values of given above must be idered as lower limits of the sudden change of atmospheric pressure caused by the explosion .
We shall make use of this observation further on .
Although the barograms revealed nothing of particular interest , on the other hand , the seismograms obtained at the subterranean seismological station at Pulkovo , from the highly sensitive aperiodic raphs with galvanometric registration , exhibited many interesting peculiarities .
These seismograms , five times magnified , are reproduced at the end of this paper .
The upper curve gives the record of the ( N.-S .
) component in the direction of the meridian , the middle curves that ( E.-W .
) in the direction of the prime vertical , and the lower curves that of , in the vertical direction .
As * Okhta is a suburb of Petrograd , 8 miles N.E. of the capital .
On the Explosion at Okhta .
the speeds of revolution of the registering drums for the various components were not strictly equa separate shocks on the three diagrams are not found above the other .
This , however , is of no importance , since the true of these shocks can always be found by carefully the curves .
We readily notice on the curves some smoother oscillations of comparatively long periods .
These are micro-seismic oscillations of the first order , and are of no importance for us .
Examining these curves further ( in the direction from right to left ) , we see that , at a definite moment , a sharp impulse , , occurs , which is most prominent in the curve for the N.-S .
component .
For the instant of appearance of we have .
ll m. .
G.M.T. After this impulse there follows a series of oscillations with a short period , sec. These oscillations gradually die out , their period becoming longer , and at 18 .
their period is sec. For the E.-W .
and components the amplitudes of the corres o oscillations are considerably less , but in the E.-W .
component these oscilla- tions continue for a longer period of time , up to the moment when a second impulse , , occurs .
Judging from the magnitude and the direction of the first deviation due to , we may conclude that the corresponding impulse has come from N.N.E. , which agrees well with the relative positions of Pulkovo and Okhta , the azimuth of the latter place relatively to Pulkovo being N. E. .
This fact , as well as the nature of the oscillations shown in the diagram , make it highly probable that the first impulse , , represents a purely seismic phenomenon , i.e. , that its origin is due to elastic waves through the upper crust of the earth , the type of the oscillations being that o'f longitudinal elastic waves .
Analysing the seismograms further , we see that after a certain intel'val of time , viz. , at the instant , there oocurs an exbremely sharp shock , , which stands out very prominently in all three curves , especially in that corresponding to the vertical component , .
The greatest range ( corresponding to a double swing ) of displacement of the spot on the registering drum is For the component N.-S .
about mm. E.-W .
, , Z. , * The normal speed was about .
per Prince B. Galitzin .
After the appearance of , gradually decaying oscillations with sec. remain in both horizontal components , but in the vertical component the movement ceases very quickly .
These records show that corresponds to an unusually sharp wave of rarefaction , i.e. , that the first impulse communicated to the surface of the earth was directed downwards , as if the earth had received an impulse from above .
From the directions of the first deviation at in the two horizontal components it may be inferred that the impulse in question was directed from S.E. to N.W. , or was accurately S. E. The impulse , which occurred 70 sec. after the first impulse , , is very distinct in character and of great interest .
It is quite different from the impulse , and al the first glance it is difficult to suppose that it is of seismic origin .
I have tried to clear up the question whether on the evening of April 29 only one explosion occulred , or two , one after the other .
I applied to the manager of the Okhta works , but all that I succeeded in establishing was that even if there were two distinct explosions , the one followed the other very quickly , so that it was quite impossible to ascribe the two impulses , and , to two distinct explosions .
It must be assumed , therefore , that they owed their origin to two entirely different categories of waves .
It now remained to find out what these were .
In view of the fact that between and there was an interval of 70 sec. , it must be assumed that the second waves were propagated much more slowly than the first .
If is of seismic origin , it might be supposed that , on the other hand , is due to the action of the air-wave caused by the explosion .
The action of such a wave , however , could not be shown directly by the seismographs , since they are installed in a deep cellar and well protected from external tmospheric influences ; moreover , we have seen that even the instruments pecially designed to register pressure , viz. , the barographs , showed a very insignificant variation of pressure , .
If is really due to the air-wave of the explosion , its action could be transmitted to the seismographs only through the ground , i.e. , the air-wave must have communicated to the hill on which the seismic station stands a certain movement of shifting or tilting which was recorded by the highly sensitive seismographs .
On this hypothesis it is quite natural that the first vertical impulse of should be directed downwards .
Moreover , it is not surprising that the azimuth of the impulse , , should be directed from S.E. to N.W. , since the direction of the shifting or tilting of the hill caused by the air-wave of the explosion may depend very largely on the structure of the hill .
Tn order to test these conclusions , lef us try to determine the velocities of On the Explosion at Okhta .
propagation of the oscillations which have caused the impulses and i Putting for these velocities and respectively , we have in any case Further , let be the distance between the seismic station at Pulkovo and point where the explosion took place , and the instant of the explosion .
We have : where km .
, and given above , and , and are to be determined .
, we have Putting , where } , we find .
( 1 ) Now let us discuss the probable values of and .
We know that there are different types of seismic waves : the longitudinal waves propagated in the upper strata of the earth with a velocity of km.-sec .
, the transverse waves with a velocity of km.-sec .
, and the so-called long waves propa- gated along the surface of the earth with a velocity of about km.-sec .
Independently of this , Hecker 's experiments*carried out in connection with an artificial explosion showed that in sandy soil the principal seismic waves are propagated with an average velocity of km.-sec .
and a period of sec. The propagation of these waves was investigated up to a distance of kilom .
only .
Similar observations were made in 1897 at Commersdorf , when the velocity of propagation of this kind of waves was found to be km.-sec .
Independently of Hecker , ained for similar waves a velocity of km.-sec .
During the explosion at Commersdorf , Omori discovered the existence of yet another type of seismic waves travelling with a velocity of km.-sec .
These velocities are considerably less than those of the ordinary type of seismic waves , and present therefore an interesting anomaly .
In order to make use of formula it is also necessary to determine the velocity of propagation of sound under the atmospheric conditions at the 'Beitrage sir Geophysik vol. 6 , p. 87 .
Ibid. , vol. 4 , p. 98 ( 1900 ) .
riences sir la vitesse de propagation des secousses les sols divers par F. Fouqu6 et M. Levy .
moires de l'Institut de France , ' vol. 30 .
Prince B. Galitzin .
time of the explosion at Okhta .
This velocity , , may be calculated from the formula , ( 2 ) where .-sec .
is the normal velocity of sound at C. , the of the air in millimetres of mercury , the vapour pressure , the ratio of the specific heats of dry air under constant pressure and at constant volume , the same ratio for water vapour , and the temperature .
To this formula a correction must be applied for the wind , which causes a certain convection of sound .
To determine the meteorological elements at the time of explosion , I made use of the data*from the four meteorological stations at Petrograd , Pavlovsk , Pulkovo , and Zesnog .
Substituting them in the above formula and adding the correction for the wind , the following value for the velocity of propagation of sound at the time of explosion was obtained:\mdash ; In order to make use of formula ( 1 ) let us now substitute for the various values quoted above for the velocity of propagation of seismic waves , and also the velocity of sound .-sec .
, and let us calculate the corresponding velocities .
In this way we shall obtain several pairs of corresponding values of and , and the most likely of these will indicate to which categories of waves the impulses and were probably due .
These pairs of values of and are given in the following Table:\mdash ; * These data are as follows:\mdash ; Pressure mm. Pressure of watc1 vapour mm. Temperature of air C. Relative humidity per cent. Velocity of wind -s .
Direction of wind W.N.W. On the Explosion at Okhta .
Now all the values of corresponding to must be excluded , since seismic waves travelling with velocities equal to or less than km.-sec .
do not occur in the column , and are not known .
The combination of and km.-sec .
is not out of the question .
Although the value of km . .
is considerably greater than the velocity of waves observed by Mallet and Hecker , yet the difference could be explained by assuming some special properties of the subsoil between Okhta and Pulkovo .
By choosing this pair of values for and we might ascribe both the impulses and to seismic waves .
The Table shows , however , that the most probable combination is given either by km.-ssc .
, or by and It is true that in this case the velocities are somewhat greater than the velocity of sound km.-sec .
, but it may be easily shown that this difference is only apparent .
The value of given above refers only to ordinary sound waves ; in the case of a wave of explosion , however , is not uniform , but depends upon the distance , , from the place of the explosion .
In this case the velocity is a function of the energy of the explosion wave at a given point , so that we may put .
The experiments carried out by Wolf* on the velocity of propagation of a sound-wave due to the explosion of 1500 kilog .
of guncotton showed that satisfies the following equation:\mdash ; , ( 3 ) where is a constant proportional to the amount of energy liberated by the explosion .
In Wolf 's experiments Formula ( 2 ) shows that at small distances from the focus of the explosion the velocity of propagation of the explosion wave is considerably greater than that of an ordinary sound-wave , whilst at greater distances the difference becomes very small , so that at .
it is not more than 1 per cent. Let us now try to find ou ' the mean velocity propagation of the explosion wave between Okhta and Pulkovo .
Formula ( 2 ) gives where is the distance of Pulkovo from the place of explosion , whence ' Ann. der Physik , ' vol. 69 , p. 329 1899 ) .
.Petrograd .
: Of these three values of we evidently must take the greatest , since it was pointed out that the barographs usually give reduced values of Let us put , therefore , , which is an inferior limit to .
This figure shows that the energy liberated by the explosion at Okhta was at least 739 times the energy liberated by the explosion of 1500 kgrm .
of guncotton .
Putting in formula ( 6 ) , we find p. 514 ) .
\mdash ; On the Explosion at and this gives the following value for the mean velocity of propagation of the explosion wave between Okhta and Pavlovsk , calculated from formula ( 4 ) It was shown above that the most probable values of and are : km.-sec .
and km.-sec .
Now we see that the erence between and is only .-sec .
, which is less than one per cent. Thus the agreement between the calculated value of , taking km.-sec .
, and the mean velocity of the explosion wave , proves to be very good .
We may suppose , therefore , with a great degree of probability , that the first impulse , , on the Pulkovo seismograms was really of seismic origin , whilst the second impulse , , was caused by the action of the explosion wave through the air .
On this theory the interval of 70 sec. between and is easily explained , so that it is not necessary to assume the existence of seismic oscillations propagating with abnormally small velocities .
Taking km.-sec .
and km.-sec .
, we get for the time of transmission from Okhta to Pulkovo of the first ( seismic ) wave sec. , and for the air-wave caused by the explosion .
Subtracting these values from and ( the instants of the impulses and ) , we find for the time of the explosion at Okhta .
llm . .
G.M.T. , or 8 mean Pulkovo time .
In , we may say that the institution of seismic experiments on the propagation of explosion waves both in the earth and in the air would be of considerable interest .
With.the help of highly sensitive seismograpb such experiments may be easily carried out .
The results of these experiments would throw light on many interesting and important questions with regard to the elastic properties of the various rocks constituting the upper strata of the earth .

