Description of the Corundum Stone , and its Varieties , commonly known by the Names of Oriental Ruby , Sapphire , &amp;c. ; with Observations on some other Mineral Substances .
By the Count de Bournon , F.R.S. Read March 25 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 233 .
] In a former paper , printed in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1798 , Count de Bournon gave an analytical description of the crystalline forms of corundum from the East Indies and from China .
From a note inserted at the beginning of the present communication , we learn , that the great number of specimens of that substance , since collected from different parts , chiefly of the East , have added so considerably to our knowledge relating to that subject , as to render it necessary not only to correct , but even , in many respects , to alter our opinion concerning it : and that hence , rather than create intricacy by introducing this additional knowledge in the form of a supplement , he had thought it expedient to collect all the information that could be obtained into one point of view , in hopes of delivering , in the present paper , with the addition of a chemical analysis which we are taught to expect from Mr. Chenevix , a complete mineralogical history of this curious substance .
The paper is prefaced by a short historical account of the opinions of former naturalists concerning the corundum stone , and its classification in the mineral system .
The first of these , who derived their knowledge chiefly from lapidaries , had no hesitation in placing it among the gems , the hardest of which they distinguished by the epithet Oriental , and subdivided them according to their colours .
Rome de Lisle was the first who deduced distinctive characters from the crystalline forms of the different sorts , rejecting the colour as a fallacious character .
The first chemists who undertook to analyse this stone , thought themselves authorized to consider it as consisting of new elementary earths ; but afterwards it was thought , and it appears now with much reason , to belong to the class of those stones which are chiefly , if not entirely , composed of argill .
Werner at length also undertook the analysis ; but he retrograded somewhat from what has been since found to be the truth , by placing it between pitch-stone and felspar .
Abbe Hauy at length , recurring again to the crystalline form , placed it immediately after felspar , and before the Ceylonite ; from both which , however , it differs widely , both by its hardness and specific gravity .
We are greatly indebted to the zeal and perseverance of our honourable member , Mr. Charles Greville , for a very ample collection of specimens of this stone , and of various other species which were long thought analogous , but are now found to constitute with it a genus of some extent .
This substance , we are now told , presents itself to our senses , especially to our sight , under two very dissimilar appearances .
The first is the original corundum imported under that name and also under that of adamantine spar .
At times it is brought in irregular fragments , but often in crystals , which are generally of a pretty large size .
Those of the other appearance are , in fact , the gems hitherto known by the names of Sapphire , Ruby , &amp;c. Another distinction is next made , according to the texture or fineness of the grain of these stones ; the former being called imperfect , and the latter , or the gems , perfect Corundum .
The author now enters into a minute account of the appearances and the principal properties of this substance .
And first lie treats of its colour .
This , he tells us , is at best but an uncertain character in stones , but yet it may at times afford some secondary marks of distinction .
The common or imperfect corundum varies , in this respect , according to the country where it is found .
That from the Carnatic is of a grayish white , sometimes approaching to a pale green , and sometimes , though rarely , of a red or blue colour : that from China and Ava is generally of a dull green or brown colour ; and that from the coast of Malabar appears of a reddish brown .
The perfect corundum which is found in Pegu and in Ceylon is either red , blue , or yellow .
The former is the Oriental ruby ; the blue is the sapphire ; and the yellow the topaz .
From a duly proportioned mixture of the blue and the red is produced the purple colour , which constitutes the Oriental amethyst .
The union of the blue and yellow forms the green colour , which is proper to the Oriental emerald ; and a larger proportion of yellow produces the colour proper to the chrysolite .
2 .
As to transparency , the crystals of corundum from the Carnatic , having usually rough surfaces , are of course very imperfectly diaphanous ; but when broken , their fragments have generally a certain degree of semi-transparency : most of these fragments , when held up to the light , show a number of fissures in their substance , which in a great measure prevent the transmission of light .
These fissures arise from a want of cohesion between all the parts of the crystalline laminme .
The red and blue corundum of the Carnatic has a greater degree of transparency than those of any other colour ; the blue in particular having generally the preference in this respect .
3 .
In -hardness the corundum comes next to the diamond ; but this quality , with regard to intensity , differs greatly , according to the colour and degrees of purity of the specimens .
The corundum of the Carnatic , when it is neither blue nor red , is less hard than any other sort ; whilst the imperfect blue species exceeds all the other varieties of this kind in hardness , -such is its density that it will emit pretty bright sparks when struck with steel .
4 .
This substance , likequartz , becomes phosphorescent by collision .
The crystals of a red colour , whether of the perfect or im. perfect kind , will emit a lig}ht of a very deep fire--colour , similar to that of a red hot iron .
5 .
The specific gravity of this stone varies in all its different kinds .
The means deduced from a great number of observations afford the following numbers .
Imperfect corundum 3931 .
Perfect corundum , in the instance of Oriental ruby , 3977 ; and of sapphire , 4158 .
The difference seems to be proportionate to the degree of perfection of the crystallization , and consequently of the transparency of the stone .
6 .
We come now to the most extensive and most elaborate section of the paper which treats of the crystalline forms of the different kinds of corundum .
The primitive form of all the kinds , whatever be their degree of perfection , we are here told is a rhomboid slightly acute , the obtuse angles of the planes measuring 94 ?
, and the acute ones 86 ?
; and it is asserted , that whatever the form of an individual crystal may be , it may always , by dividing it according to the lately established rules of crystallography , be ultimately reduced to this rhomboidal form .
The manner in which crystals deviate from their primitive form , by the substitution of planes for the angles , effected by the retreat of rows of molecules , which constitute the crystalline lamine , is amply discussed in a note ; and nine modifications are described , forming a great variety of prismatic , pyramidal , and other crystals , of which some idea can only be formed by an inspection of the figures that accompany the paper .
7 .
The next section treats of the fracture and texture of this stone .
In general we are told that all the kinds have a lamellated texture , the layers being in a direction parallel to the faces of the rhomboid , and that they break in a direction parallel to those faces .
The ease , however , with which these laminae may be divided , differs greatly in the different varieties ; and this is ascribed to the degree of force existing in the attraction of the molecules which compose these crystals , as well as to the perfect adhesion of the crystalline laminae composed of those molecules at all points of their surface .
This attraction and adhesion , it is thought , varies with the colour of the stone , the blue or sapphire possessing those qualities in the highest degree , _ which accounts for the fracture of this stone being often in a direction oblique , and even at right angles to the planes of the laminae .
8 .
The 8th section contains some observations on the phenomenon of light exhibited by this stone .
The prismatic , as well as the pyramidal crystals of corundum , when their extremities are terminated by planes which are perpendicular to their axes , very frequently exhibit on these planes a changeable variety of colours , known by the name of chatoyant .
This property is ascribed to the reflection of light in the small intervals which remain between the crystalline laminae in those parts where these laminae are not in perfect contact .
It follows hence that the most compact sorts of corundum will not exhibit this appearance .
To the same property is also ascribed that beautiful reflection of light in the form of a star of six rays , frequently produced in rubies and sapphires when cut in a particular direction .
As to the manner of cutting these asteries , or star-stones , as they are usually called , it appears to be rather the effect of chance than of any determined theory .
Some hints , however , are here given for the purpose , which chiefly recommend a proper attention to the primitive rhomboidal form of the crystal .
In the 9th section the author treats of the characters of the corundum afforded by chemical analysis ; and h2re he anticipates the results of the investigation we are to be favoured with by Mr. Chenevix .
These confirm what he has all along maintained in this paper of the identity of the several kinds of stones which he has classed under the name of Corundum .
The ingredients are uniformly found to be the same in all the species , differing only , and but in a small degree , in their proportions .
The principal of these ingredients is argill or alumina , which , in the imperfect corundum from the Carnatic , Malabar , China , and Ava , consist of between 86and 91 in 100 parts .
In the sapphire it amounts to 92 , and in the ruby to 90 hundredths .
The other constituent parts are silica and iron ; the former in the greatest proportion .
Of the identity of stones which bear very different appearances , another example is here given in the instance of the felspar , reasons being assigned why some species of schorl , the adularia , and some other substances , ought to be classed with it .
The author proceeds next to consider the sort of corundum which does not exhibit the smallest rudiments of crystallization , and which mineralogists have agreed to distinguish by the name of Compact Corundum .
It resembles , in many respects , a coarse jasper ; but its much greater degree of hardness , and its much higher specific gravity , render its true nature easily distinguishable .
It has a lamellated appearance .
The red sort , in particular , gives pretty strong sparks when struck with steel .
It is phosphorescent , like crystallized corundum .
Its specific gravity is 3902 .
Three sections treat next of the matrices of different sorts of corundum ; which lcal the author to dwell largely on a variety of substances which hitherto were thought to have no kind of affinity with this stone .
The first section treats of the matrix of imperfect corundum from the peninsula of India , chiefly from the Carnatic , and of the substances with which it is accompanied .
This matrix , as far as our present knowledge extends , appears to be a stone of a particular nature ; sometimes of a loose granulated texture , not unlike a coarse sandstone ; and at other times of a closer grain , similar to the kind of marble known by the name of Coarse-grained Saline Marble : both kinds are of a pearly gray colour , sometimes slightly tinged with green , and have a degree of semi-transparency not unlike chalcedony .
Their specific gravities are inferior to that of felspar .
In this substance the crystals of corundum are imbedded , nearly in the same manner as those of felspar are dispersed in porphyry or certain granites .
The accompanying substances are , 1 .
Lamellated fragments , not unlike felspar or adularia , and partaking of many of the properties of corundum itself , and even of its crystallization .
2 .
Fibrolites , which are described as small masses frequently crystallized , but different in some respects from all other mineral substances hitherto known .
3 .
Thallite , or the Epidote of Abbe Hauy .
This is minutely described in three different states .
4 .
Hornblende , which is most constantly and most abundantly contained in the matrix here treated of .
5 .
Quartz , Talc , Mica , Steatite , Garnets , Zircon ; all which , though manifestly dispersed in this matrix , are yet less frequent .
And lastly , the presence of black Oxide of Iron is likewise evident , though not in such large proportions as in the matrix of the imperfect corundum from China .
Section 2 .
Of the matrix of imperfect corundum from China , and the substances with which it is accompanied.-This matrix is totally different from the preceding one , being a granite rock , composed of an aggregate mixture of felspar , fibrolite , mica , and attractable black oxide of iron : but none of that particular substance which has been mentioned as forming the basis of the preceding matrix is here observed .
The four substances above mentioned are unequally distributed throughout the mass ; some pieces being composed almost entirely of only one of them , while in other pieces the substances are mixed together in different proportions , and sometimes in nearly equal ones .
Section 3 .
Of the matrix of perfect corundum from the Island of Ceylon , and the substances of which it appears to be composed .
The author , on this head , speaks with some diffidence , as the precious stones comprised under the denomination of this kind of corundum are selected by the inhabitants from the sands washed down by the rivers or rivulets of the island , and have seldom been brought to Europe in any kind of matrix .
He gives us , however , a list of the substances which compose the sands that are sent to us from Ceylon ; although he will not venture to assert positively that these substances really accompany the corundum when in its matrix .
They are , 1 .
Spinelle Ruby , which generally composes nine parts in ten of the whole mass of this sand , but in such small crystals or fragments as to render them of little or no consequence in trade ; owing , no doubt , to the selection made in India before it is sent over .
The few of a tolerable size that have been obtained , are here described as to their crystalline form , their colours , their peculiar matrix , in some of which was found an iron ore hitherto unknown , while some of them appeared evidently to be masses of adularia .
2 .
Tourmalin , in the form of a very obtuse rhomboid , with several varieties deducible from this form , and of different colours .
3 .
Ceylonite , so called by M. la Matherie , but distinguished by the name of Pleonaste in the Mineralogy of the Abbe Hauy .
This is likewise of a variety of crystalline forms and colours .
4 .
Zircon , which , next to the Spinelle , is the substance most frequently found in the sand of Ceylon , the crystals of which , though very small , are yet in general very perfect .
And lastly , though thelir numbers be very insignificant , some small scattered fragments of quartz , felspar , calcareous spar , a brownish-yellow mica , and particles of attractable oxide of iron .
The paper closes with some account of corundum , which , contrary to the received opinion , that this stone was only found in the East Indies , has been thought to exist in other parts of the world .
The author dwells mostly upon the appearances of a stone he himself discovered in the mountainous parts of the Forez in France , and which the Abbe Hauy considers only as a species of felspar .
The Count alleges hisreasons for classing it with the perfect blue corundum , known by the name of Sapphire .
As to various stones found in Germany , in the Isle of Tirree on the western coast of Scotland , on Chesnut-hill near Philadelphia , and elsewhere , which have by some been considered as corundum , the author cautions us against acquiescing in those assertions till more conclusive arguments shall appear in their favour .

