146 Prof. J. R. Green .
On Germination [ Jan. 30 , Clarke with the nerve-fibres which radiate in bundles from the grey matter of that region into the lateral column , and to show that some .of the fibres with which these are related pass out transversely well into that area which is occupied almost exclusively ( man ) by fibres .of the crossed pyramidal tract .
Concerning some of the outlying cells in the more dorsal portion of the lateral column , the same inferences may be drawn ; and some of them would seem to be connected with fibres of the posterior roots that curve round the lateral aspect of the caput cornu posterioris .
Of the outlying cells in the posterior column , if they are outlying members of Clarke 's group , the relations which they suggest for that group are\#151 ; i. That the group is connected directly with certain of the median fibres of the posterior spinal roots , namely , those which after an upward course in Burdach 's column plunge into the grey matter of the base of the posterior horn .
ii .
That some at least of the cells of that group are interpolated , more or less immediately , into the course of medullated nerve-fibres of large calibre .
The question naturally arises , May not these cells in the posterior column of the Mammalian cord represent the bipolar cells discovered by Freud , * in the cord of Petromyzon Planeri , to be in direct communication with fibres of the posterior roots P If so may Clarke 's column be considered a portion of the ganglion of the posterior spinal nerve-root which has been retained in the interior of the spinal cord in the thoracic and certain other regions ?
III .
" On the Germination of the Seed of the Castor-oil Plant ( Ricinus conimwiis')."By J. R. Green , M.A. , B.Sc. , F.L.S. , Professor of Botany to the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain .
Communicated by Professor M. FOSTER , Sec. R.S. Received January 29 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The older views of the transformations of the reserve products of this plant , as advanced by Sachs and other writers , took account only of the oil present in the cells , and were briefly , that ic undergoes by oxidation a conversion into carbohydrate , the idea of this change being chiefly based on the observation that as the oil disappears from the endosperm during germination , starch appears in various parts of the embryo .
Later writers have suggested the existence of a ferment , splitting up the fat into glycerine and fatty acid , and the further transformation of the latter into the starch .
# Freud , 'Vienna Sitzungsberichte , ' January , 1877 .
1890 .
] the Seed of the Castor-oil Plant .
147 .
The work embodied in this paper deals ( a ) with the agencies which , during germination , render the reserve materials available for the use of the embryo , ( \amp ; ) with the forms in which these are absorbed by it and the mode of their absorption , and ( c ) with the parts played in the process by the endosperm and the embryo respectively .
1 .
The agencies at work.\#151 ; A ferment is found to exist as a zymogen in the resting seed , which is readily developed by warmth and weak acids into an active condition .
The results of its activity are the splitting up of the fat with formation of glycerine and ( chiefly ) ricinoleic acid .
Further changes , brought about by the protoplasm of the endosperm cells , form from the latter a lower carbon acid wdiich , unlike ricinoleic acid , is soluble in water and is crystalline .
These changes do not take place in the absence of free oxygen .
A quantity of sugar also is formed , which appears to have the glycerine as its antecedent .
The proteids of the seed , which consist of globulin and albumose , are split up by another ferment , with formation of peptone and asparagin .
This ferment resembles closely the ferment previously described by the writer as occurring in germinating lupin seeds .
2 .
The forms in which the reserve materials are absorbed.\#151 ; Examination of the seeds during the whole course of absorption shows that 1 he only products which enter the embryo are a crystalline acid , sugar , possibly some peptone , and asparagin .
Consideration of the structure of the cotyledons , wThich are the absorbing organs , shows that the mode of absorption is always dialysis , a view antagonistic to that of Sachs , who has put forward the idea of a penetration of the cell walls by the unchanged oil .
It follows from this that the starch seen by him and other observers in the tissues of the young embryo was the result of a re-formation from the diffusible bodies now traced .
3 .
The relative influence of the endosperm and the embryo.\#151 ; The changes are found to be initiated in the endosperm , for they take place , though more slowly , when the embryo is carefully removed .
The latter has , however , an influence upon the process , germination being more rapid when it , or even part of it , is left in contact with the endosperm .
This is shown not to be due to simple removal of the products of the decompositions , but is rather to be regarded as due to a stimulus of a physiological nature caused by the commencing development of the embryo .
4 .
An additional point of interest in the progress of the germination is the liberation in the endosperm of a rennet ferment of considerable vigour .
At present an explanation of the action of this is difficult , though experiments are still proceeding with a view to cieariug it up .
VOL. XLVII .
M

