]\gt ; Mr. J. H. Michell .
tisfi e Laplace 's equation .
Let the intrinsic equation of the curye in the plane be , where is the arc and the curvature .
Them V satisfies the equation transformation from one diagram to another is thereby reduced to solving a potential problem with a given condition over an infinite straight line .
If is a straight line , we have simply along it .
By this means are given two general theorems , of which one is that of Schwarz , and the second may be stated as follows:\mdash ; The transformation gives the potential of any number of infinitely long plane conductors , all in the same plane , with parallel edges and at given potentials .
Proceeding now to the hydrodynamical problem , are the co-ordinates of a point of the liquid , , the velocity and stream functions .
The boundaries of the diagram in the plane are all straight , and therefore Schwarz 's theorem will transform to a ) plane in which the boundary is Now , if is the velocity of the fluid at , .
It follows that V is constant along part of the line and along the rest .
The transformation theorem just given enables us then to find V as a function of , and efore as a function of Tho general solution of the problem appears iu the form where and are both factorial forms .
Several particular cases are next worked out , the results of which may here be given .
1890 .
] The of Free Stream Lines .
It will be observed that they are all of such a character that in os.ooin round the boundary of the we but twice from fro streatn line to boundary .
It is only in these cases that the actual executio of the work is feasible .
Case Jet from a Vessel .
The eneral soIution is ' .
I.\mdash ; A vessel of given width has aperbure the bottom .
elimination of the nown consffints is not possible in , but if the aperture is placed , and be the aclth of the vessel , of the aperlure , and of thejet , Eix .
II.\mdash ; Tube into the bottom of a vessel .
The simplest results of this case When the tube is long , with the same notation as in .
K. If the tube is o# small and the breadth of the vessel very large .
Case II.\mdash ; Flow Pipes .
An aperture is made in one of walls of a pipe alon which vater is flowing .
formulae of transformation are VOL. XLVJI .
The Theory of Free Stream Lines .
Let be the breadth of the pipe , that of the aperture , of the jet , the velocity in the pipe before reaching the aperture , the velocity after the aperture is passed , the velocity of the jet , then and If tkxe water is flowing to the aperture equaTIy from both sides , we If one end of the pipe is stopped , we have the case of a jet from , side of a vessel of width , the being far from the bottom .
In this case Lastly , if the pipe is very broad , so that we have a broad stream flowing past aperture , the result is ' being the velocity of the jet , and the velocity of the stream .
Case Ybpacf of a Stream against a Plane .
The stream at a given angle against an infinite plane .
If be measured along the plane , the equations of the boundaries of the stream are and 1890 .
] Presents .
where in both lies between and and is the inclination of the stream to the plane .
In the second of the paper , some general transformation theorems are obtained , which are applicable to problems of ( .ondensers , forms of hollow vortices , \amp ; c. If two polygons lie one within the other , the transformation of the ftrea between them which makes the curve is where is the internal of the , and are the clliptic fnnctions so indicated .
A similar transformation is given for the case in which one polygon lies outside the other .
The method is ] applied to find the form of hollow vortices in cftses .
The trnsformation which gives the motion to a statio1lary hollow vortex between parallel is .
tn .

