540 Further Contribution to the Study of the Inheritance of Hoariness in Stocks ( Matthiola ) .
By Edith R. Saunders , Lecturer and late Fellow , Newnham College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by W. Bateson , F.R.S. Received August 1 , 1912 .
) In an earlier account , in which the results of intercrossing various strains of glabrous ( = wallflower-leaved ) Ten-week stocks are described , it has been shown that the results are capable of explanation on the supposition that a certain inter-relation exists between the factors causing hoariness and those concerned in the production of coloured sap.* We may briefly recall the main facts in regard to these two characters .
It was found experimentally\#151 ; ( 1 ) That glabrous sap-coloured strains of various colours ( e.g. dark purple , light purple , azure , red , flesh , copper ) when intercrossed , produced offspring which were also all glabrous sap-eoloured ; later generations derived from these crossbreds were again invariably of this type .
( 2 ) That these same glabrous sap-coloured strains , when crossed with the glabrous non-sap-coloured forms white or cream , gave sap-coloured hoary in Fi ; further , that self- or inter-bred Fi plants gave an F2 composed of the three classes , sap-coloured hoary , sap-coloured glabrous , and non-sap-coloured glabrous , in the proportion approximately of 9:3:4 .
There were no nonsap-coloured hoary .
( 3 ) That unions between the two glabrous non-sap-coloured forms white and cream also gave Fi all sap-coloured hoary ; in Fa the proportion of forms was about 9 sap-coloured hoary to 7 non-sap-coloured glabrous .
In this case sap-coloured glabrous were absent , as well as non-sap-coloured hoary .
The suggestions put forward at the time in explanation of the above facts were\#151 ; ( a ) That two factors ( C and R ) must be assumed to be present in all sap-coloured forms : in the absence of either or both the sap is colourless .
( b ) That hoariness similarly is due to the presence of two factors ( H and K ) , but that this second pair becomes ineffective under certain conditions ( see ( c ) ) .
( c ) That an inter-relation must exist between these two pairs of factors of such a nature that the hoary condition due to the presence of the H , K pair only becomes manifest in a zygote which also contains the C , R pair .
Hence * ' Reports to the Evolution Committee of the Royal Society , ' Report III , p. 38 .
For details of the experiments , see Reports I and II .
Inheritance of Hoariness in Stocks ( Matthiola ) .
541 it follows that strains which lack C or II or both will be glabrous even though the factors H and K are both present .
On these assumptions the statistical results which were obtained from various unions between glabrous sap-coloured and non-sap-coloured forms could be accounted for , and the composition of the several types employed represented in terms of these factors as follows:\#151 ; Glabrous cream ... ... ... ... ... ... ... cRHK .
Glabrous white ... ... ... ... ... ... ... CrHK .
Various glabrous sap-colours ... ... CRHk .
It has since been pointed out by Doncaster that the supposition that two factors are required to produce hoariness in a zygote containing C , R introduces an unnecessary complexity ; for if , as appears to be the case , the manifestation of hoariness in these strains is conditioned by the presence of the two sap-colour factors ( C and R ) , then the existence of one additional factor is all that is required to account for the several results given above ( see 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
The justice of this criticism was acknowledged , and in the later accounts of these experiments Doncaster 's simplification has been adopted , and the unnecessary factor ( H ) omitted from the formulae of the several types .
More recently , however , I have employed another sap-coloured form , and the results obtained with this new type make it clear that the earlier hypothesis that hoariness is determined by two factors , though not justified by the facts at the time it was put forward , is in fact correct , and consequently that the original scheme may be held to stand .
This new type is a glabrous sap-colour known commercially as marine blue .
Crossed with the original glabrous sap-colours , e.g. azure , flesh , and red , it gives all hoary in Fi , whereas these latter types , as stated above , give all glabrous when crossed together .
On the other hand , when mated with glabrous whites from some new strains which had given , as before , all hoary with the original sap-colours , it gave an Fi all glabrous .
In short , marine blue gave results exactly the reverse of those previously obtained with other sap-colours .
Reciprocal unions were carried out in both cases .
We must , therefore , conclude that the marine blue strain lacked the factor K which is present in the other sap-coloured forms employed , but contained another factor not present in these other forms , a factor complementary to K in the same way that C is to R , the factor H referred to above , in fact , the postulation of which had not been warranted by the earlier results .
The fact that two factors in addition to the colour factors C and R are required to produce hoariness being thus established , we can retain in their entirety the diagrams appearing on pp. 40 and 41 of Report III* representing the * See footnote , p. 540 .
Miss E. R. Saunders .
[ Aug- 1 , Table I.\#151 ; Showing the Constitution of the .45 different kinds of Individuals which may occur in any Non-sap-coloured Glabrous Type .
[ 1 [ * [ 3 [ 4 [ 5 CrHK cRHK CrHk CrhK crHk CrHK cRHK CrHk CrhK crHk [ 6 [ 7 [ 8 [ 9 [ 10 CrHK cRHK cRHk cRhK crhK crHK crHK cRHk cRhK crhK [ 11 [ 12 [ 13 [ 14 [ 15 CrHK cRHK CrHk CrhK crHk CrHk cRHk crHk crhK crhk [ 16 [ 17 [ 18 [ 19 [ 20 CrHK cRHK cRHk cRhK crhK CrhK cRhK crHk crhK crhk [ 21 [ 22 [ 23 [ 24 [ 25 CrHK cRHK CrHk CrhK Crhk crHk crHk Crhk Crhk Crhk [ 26 [ 27 [ 28 [ 29 [ 30 CrHK cRHK cRHk cRhK cRhk crhK crhK cRhk cRhk cRhk [ 31 [ 32 [ 33 [ 34 [ 35 CrHK cRHK CrHk CrhK Crhk Crhk cRhk crhk crhk crhk [ 36 [ 37 [ 38 [ 39 [ 40 CrHK cRHK cRHk cRhK cRhk crhk crhk crhk crhk crhk [ 41 [ 42 [ 43 [ 44 [ 45 crHK crHK crHK crHK crhk crHK crHk crhK crhk crhk composition of the Fa generation in the particular cases there described , viz. , where the forms employed are non-sap-colours containing both hoariness factors ( H , K ) with one or other of the colour-producing factors ( C or R ) 1912 .
] Inheritance of Hoariness in Stocks ( Matthiola ) .
543 and sap-colours containing one of the two hoary factors ( assumed to he K*\gt ; together with the colour-producing pair C , R But since any one of the four factors C , K , H , K can occur alone or with any combination of the others , and also with either white or cream plastids , it becomes possible by appropriate breedings to obtain a large number of individuals identical in appearance but differing in constitution .
For , as shown in the accompanying table ( Table I ) , we may have in the case of each of the glabrous non-sap-coloured forms ( i.e.white and cream ) as many as 45 differerent types of individuals , all alike to the eye and all breeding true : while a sap-coloured strain may include 20 different types ( see Table II ) , also indistinguishable in appearance from one another.f Of these 65 types many have already been identified , and it is merely a matter of applying the cross-breeding test to a sufficient number of individuals in the F2 generation to obtain the remainder , for by this method alone , at present , are we able to detect the presence of the non-effective factors and so ascertain the precise constitution of any particular individual .
Table II.\#151 ; Showing the Constitution of the 20 different kinds of Individuals which may occur in any Sap-coloured Glabrous Type .
[ i [ 2 [ 3 [ 4 \#163 ; 5 CRHk CRhK CRHk CRhK CRHk CRHk CRhK CRhk CRhk CrHk [ 6 [ 7 [ 8 [ 9 [ 10 CRliK CRHk CRhK CRHk CRhK CrhK cRHk cRhK cRhk cRhk 3 i l [ 12 [ 13 [ 14 [ 15 CRHk CRhK CRhk CRhk CRHk crHk crhK CRhk crhk Crhk [ 16 [ 17 [ 18 [ 19 [ 20 CRhK CRlik CRhk CRHk CRhK Crhk clihk Crhk crhk crhk The discovery of the fact that Fi derived from two glabrous sap-colours is not invariably glabrous now makes it clear that no general statement can be * As we are unable to distinguish between H and K , the selection of K rather than H is , of course , purely arbitrary .
t Considered merely , i.e.y from the point of view of the two characters under consideration .
If other characters are taken into account there would , of course , be many more .
Miss E. E. Saunders .
[ Aug. 1 , made as to the result as regards surface character of matings between specified colours .
Whether Fx from two glabrous parents ( dissimilar in colour or not ) is all glabrous , or all hoary , or mixed , will depend upon the particular constitution of the parents in each case , and to a knowledge of this constitution , as we have seen , the colour of the flower is not in itself a sufficient guide .
Nor can we predict the exact proportion of the different types in F2 merely from a knowledge of the characters ( colour and surface ) in Fl# since we are unable by inspection to tell whether the crossbred is homozygous or heterozygous in respect of some of the effective factors , or whether again one member of a pair may be present , but ineffective owing to the absence of the complementary factor .
We may , however , safely assert that where two glabrous individuals give a glabrous Fi all the succeeding generations will be glabrous .
On the other hand , where such an Fx is hoary , F2 will be mixed hoary and glabrous , the proportion of the two forms depending upon whether Fx is heterozygous in 2 , 3 , or all 4 factors ( C , E , H , K ) .
If Fx is heterozygous in only two of these factors we get a slight excess of hoary plants in F2 ( 9 hoary : 7 glabrous ) .
If Fx is heterozygous in more than two factors we shall expect the glabrous individuals to be more numerous than the hoary .
Other complications apart , the expectation will be 27 hoary : 37 glabrous when Fx is heterozygous in three factors , and 81 hoary : 175 glabrous when it is heterozygous in all four .
We may now restate the main conclusions relating to surface character and the appearance of colour in the sap as follows:\#151 ; Summary of Conclusions .
1 .
Sap-colour in Stocks is due to the presence of two factors ( C and E ) , in the absence of either or both of which the sap is colourless .
2 .
Hoariness also depends upon the presence of two factors ( H and K ) between which and the sap-colour pair a certain inter-relation may exist ( see 3 ) .
3 .
This inter-relationship between the two pairs of factors is such that when certain strains are inter-crossed the hoary effect due to the presence of the H , K pair is only manifested when the C , E pair is also present .
Hence a wm-sap-coloured individual may contain both H and .
K and yet be glabrous , but in a mp-coloured glabrous form H and K cannot both be present .
One alone may occur , or both may be absent .
4 .
Similarly a w\lt ; m-sap-coloured glabrous form cannot contain both C and E. Either alone may be present or both may be absent .
5 .
Glabrous plants , whether alike in colour or not , when bred together , will yield an Fx all hoary , or mixed hoary and glabrous , or all glabrous 1912 .
] Inheritance of Hoariness in Stocks ( Matthiola ) .
according as the combined contribution of ovule and pollen grain includes in every case the four factors ( C , E , H , K ) necessary for the production of hoariness and sap-colour , or does so in the case of only some pairs of gametes , or in none .
6 .
No prediction can be made in regard to an Fi thus bred until some cross-breeding test has been applied to the parents , since the result may be affected by factors whose presence in the parents is not revealed by their appearance , and which only become effective on crossing .
7 .
When Fi from unions between glabrous plants is all all later generations derived from Fi will also be glabrous .
8 .
When Fi from such matings is all hoary , Fa will be mixed , the proportion of hoary and glabrous individuals depending upon whether the Fi crossbred is heterozygous in 2 , or 3 , or all the 4 factors for hoariness and sap- colour .
9 .
The expectation in the case where Fi is heterozygous\#151 ; In 2 of these factors will be an excess of hoary ( 9 hoary : 7 glabrous ) .
10 .
These same ratios may also appear in F2 when a hoary and a glabrous plant are bred together , since here also the Fi crossbred may be heterozygous in 2 , 3 , or 4 of the factors C , E , H , K. In this form of union , however , it is also possible for Fi to be heterozygous in respect of only one of these factors , and in such a case the ratio in F2 will be 3 hoary : 1 glabrous .
These experiments were carried out in one of the allotment gardens of the Cambridge Botanic Garden .
The expense incurred during the progress of the work has been in part defrayed by a grant from the British Association for the Advancement of Science , and also from the Gordon Wigan Fund .
glabrous ( 27 " : 37 " ( 81 \gt ; t : 175 )- ) .

