81 The Use of Wave-length Rulings as Defining Lines on Standards of Length .
By Dr. A. E. H. Tutton , F. R.S. ( Received June 9 , \#151 ; Read June 10 , 1909 .
) ( Abstract .
) The delicacy of the method of measurement in wave-lengths described in the preceding communication calls for a corresponding refinement in the engraved lines , which form the defining lines of the length of a standard yard or metre or other line-measure bar .
The defining lines on the Imperial Standard Yard are sharp-edged , but contain the equivalent of 40 interference bands of red light in their thickness , and the Benoit defining lines of the platinum-iridium copy made in 1902 are not only very ragged-edged but contain 15 interference bands in their thickness .
The author has been in communication with Mr. J. H. Grayson , of Melbourne , whose fine rulings have recently evoked such interest among microscopists , and after a long investigation has found that wonderfully satisfactory rulings on the scale of 40,000 to the inch can be made on polished speculum metal , covered with a thin cover-glass .
Now the forty-thousandth of an inch is a single wave-length of red light ( for Ha = 1/ 38710 inch , and Cd red = 1/ 39459 inch ) , so that the interval between any adjacent pair of these lines is equivalent to only two interference bands .
The thickness of each line , which is absolutely sharp-edged , is less than a single interference band .
The author has therefore devised a defining mark in these rulings , which he terms a " Tutton location signal , " to distinguish it from the " Benoit defining line .
" It consists of five such parallel lines spaced one forty-thousandth of an inch apart , with a pair of strong " finder " lines outside them and parallel to them , and another pair of similar tinder lines perpendicularly transverse to them , to indicate a central part of the lines for use .
The central line of the five fine Grayson rulings is the defining line .
These location signals can also be ruled on platinum-iridium , and with less success on gold and invar .
But the result on speculum metal is so very superior that a large number of location signals have been made on this metal by Mr. Grayson for the Standards Department .
The paper indicates their possible mode of use , not only as the end-mark defining lines of standard bars , but for a new mode of determining , by a stepping-off process of repeated doublings , the total number of wave-lengths of red cadmium light contained in the British yard .
VOL. LXXXIII.\#151 ; A. G

