A paper was next read , entitled , 'f On an Inequality of long Period in the Motions of the Earth and Venus .
" By George Biddell Airy , A.M. Plumian Professor of Astronomy and Experimental Philosophy in the University of Cambridge .
The author had pointed out , in a paper published in the Philo ?
sophical Transactions for 1828 , on the corrections of the elements of Delambre 's Solar Tables , that the comparison of the corrections of the epochs of the sun and the sun 's perigee , given by the late observations , with the corrections given by the observations of the last century , appears to indicate the existence of some inequality not in ?
cluded in the arguments of those tables .
As it was necessary , therefore , to seek for some inequality of long period , he commenced an examination of the mean motions of the planets , with the view of discovering one whose ratio to the mean motion of the earth could be expressed very nearly by a proportion of which the terms are small .
The appearances of Venus are found to recur in very nearly the same order every eight years ; some multiple , therefore , of the periodic time of Venus is nearly equal to eight years .
It is easily seen that this multiple must be thirteen ; and consequently eight times the mean motion of Venus is nearly equal to thirteen times the mean motion of the earth .
The difference is about one 240th of the mean annual motion of the earth j and it implies the existence of an inequality of which the period is about 240 years .
No term has yet been calcu ?
lated whose period is so long with respect to the periodic time of the planets disturbed .
The value of the principal term , calculated from the theory , was given by the author in a postscript to the paper above referred to .
In the ' present memoir he gives an account of the method of calculation , and includes also other terms which are necessarily connected with the principal inequality .
The first part treats of the perturbation of the earth 's longitude and radius victor ; the second of the perturbation of the earth in latitude 3 and the third of the perturbations of Venus depending upon the same arguments .
The computations of the quantities themselves being effected by means of algebraical equations of great complexity , and of numerical calculations of considerable length , which afford in themselves no ready means of verifying their accuracy , the author has been under the necessity of examining closely every line of figures before he proceeded to another .
Upon the whole he is certain that there is no error of importance in the numbers he obtained 3 and that the only probable source of error is the inevitable rejection of figures beyond a certain place of decimals .
In conclucling this investigation , the most laborious , probably , that has yet been made in the planetary theory , he remarks that the term in question is a striking instance of the importance to which terms , apparently the most insignificant , may sometimes rise .
As an illustration of the magnitude of the errors which might under other circumstances have arisen from the neglect of this term , he further observes , that if the perihelion of Venus and the earth had opposite longitudes , and if the line of nodes coincided with the major axis , the eccentricities and inclination having the same values as at present , the coefficient of the inequality in the epoch would be 8".9 , and all the other terms would be important .
A very small increase of the eccentricities and inclination would double or treble these inequa ?
lities .

