]\gt ; Note on Osmotic Pressur.e .
On the hypothesis of a rift the southerly residual should be greatest close to the boundary , and decrease with increasing distance , whereas the residual deflections actually continue to have a northerly sign till a distance of 20 to 30 miles is reached , and then a southerly sign , increasing in amount with an increase of distance from the Himalayas .
The general conclusions to be drawn from these investigations seem to be twofold : 1 ) that the local deflections of the plumb-line , produced by ound traphy , along the region bordering the southern margin of the Himalayas , are of such magnitude as to make the observations , at stations situated in that region , of small geodetio value , unless allowance is made for the invisible , as well as the visible , topography ; and ( 2 ) that there is no geodetic justification for the assumption of the existence of -deep and narrow rift , filled with material of lesser density than the rock on either side , or for any modification of the deductions , regarding the form of the floor of the Gangetic depression , which have been drawn from geological observation .
Note on Osmotic Pressure .
By W. R. BOUSFIELD , M.A. , K.C. ( Oommunicated by Sir W. Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.RS .
Received January 8 , \mdash ; Read , 1914 .
) The vapour pressure theory regards osmotic pressure as the pressure required to produce equilibrium between the pure solvent and the solution .
Pressure applied to a solution increases its internal vapour pressure .
If the compressed solution be on one side of a semi-permeable partition and the pure solvent on the other , there is osmotic equilibrium when the com- pression of the solution brings its vapour pressure to equality with that of the solvent .
So long ago as 1894 Ramsay*found that with a partition of palIadium , permeable to hydrogen but not to nitrogen , the hydrogen pressures on each side tended to equality , notwithstanding the presence of nitrogen under pressure on one side , which it might have been supposed would have resisted the transpiration of the hydrogen .
The bearing of this experiment on the problem of osmotic pressure was recognised by va n't Hoff , who observesj that " " it is very instructive as regards the means 'Phil .
Mag vol. 38 , p. 206 ( 1894 ) .
Va n't Hoff , ' Lectures on Theoretical and Physical Chemistry , ' Part II , p. 38 .
42 Mr. W. R Bousfield. .
by which osmotic pressure is produced But it was not till 1908 that the vapour theory of osmotic pressure was developed on a firm foundation by Callendar .
* He demonstrated , by the method of the " " vapour sieve\ldquo ; piston , the proposition that " " any two solutions in equilibrium through any kind of membrane or capillary surface must have the same vapour pressures in respect of each of their constituents which is capable of diffusing through their surface of separation\ldquo ; \mdash ; a generalisation of importance for the theory of solutions .
Findlay , in his admirable monograph , gives a very complete account of the contending theories of osmotic pressure , a review of which leaves no doubt that at the present moment the vapour pressure theory stands without a serious rival .
Some confusion of ideas still arises from the want of adherence to a strict definition of osmotic pressure to which numerical data from experimental measurements should be reduced .
The following definitions appear to be the outcome of the vapour pressure theory:\mdash ; Definition vapour pressule of a solution is the pressure of the vapour with which it is in equilibrium when under pressure of its own vapour only .
DeJinition lI\mdash ; The osmotic pressure of a solution of given uniform concentration at a given temperature is the pressure under which the internal vapour pressure of such solution becomes equal to the vapour pressure of the pure solvent at the same temperature and under the pressure of its own vapour only .
these definitions it would follow that for a concentration and temperature the vapour pressure osmotic pressure of a solution would be definite physical quantities determined only by temperature and conoentration , and such confusing phrases as " " the variation of osmotic pressure with hydrostatic pressure\ldquo ; or " " the osmotic pressure at the top of a column of solution\ldquo ; would fall into desuetude .
The picturesque conception of va n't Hoff , that the osmotic pressure of a solution is the pressure which would be produced if the solute existed as a gas in the sams space , has sometimes been taken too literally , and is probably responsible for the survival of some inexact phraseology .
Both Callendar and Findlay appear to regard the compressibility of the solvent as a factor which need only be reckoned with at very high pressures , or as introducing into the expression of the relation between vapour pressure and osmotic pressure a term of minor importance , which needs to be oonsidered merely as a correction where a closer approximation is required .
'Boy .
Soc. Proc , p. 466 ( 1908 ) .
' Osmotic Pressure , ' Longmans , Green , and Co. , 1913 .
Note on Osmotic Pressure .
But it is the compression of the solution which produces the increase of its vapour pressure and if we look at the matter from the point of view of the reduction of the molecular interspaces which is produced by pressure , it is seen that the compression of the solution may possibly play a fundamental The complex constitution of liquid water has created many difficulties for physicists in dealing with aqueous solutions , but it may in this matter give us a useful idea .
It has been shown elsewhere*that liquid water is probably a mixture of ice-molecules of a constitution dihydrol , and steam-molecules .
The proportions of these ingredients vary with temperature .
Near the freezing-point there is a large proportion of ice-molecules and a small proportion of steam-molecules .
Near the boiling point these -proportions are reversed .
We may well suppose that the vapour pressure of water is intimately connected with the proportion of steam-molecules which it contains at any given temperature .
Ihere is also little doubt that the proportion of steam-molecules ( as well as of ice-molecules ) is reduced by the solution in water of any solute , and that this is connected with the reduction of vapour pressure which is thus produced .
In another paper the remarkable fact was pointed out that steam-molecules , like ice-molecules , must be considered as bulky molecules , that is , as occupying a larger volume in the solution than their weight would entitle them to .
In the case of the ice-molecule this may be attributed to its more open structu-re .
In the case of the compact steam-molecule it may well be attributed to the larger space which it requires for its vibratory movement .
We thus get the idea of molecular interspaces containing steam-molecules or vapour which determine the internal vapour pressure of the liquid .
When a mass of vapour is in external contact with a solution and the space in which the vapour is confined is reduced , vapour is condensed , and no change of pressure is produced .
But the conditions in the molecular interspaces of the solvent are different , and ib is easy to show that the assumption that the molecular interspaces are filled with vapour ( steammolecules ) , which there behaves approximately as a perfect gas , leads at once to the known general relation between vapour pressure and osmotic pressure .
If be the pressure in atmospheres applied to a litre of solution , the change of volume produced by such pressure may be expressed approximately as Let be the vapour pressure of water and the vapour pressure of a * Bousfield and Lowry , " " Liquid Water a Ternary Mixture ' Farad .
Soc. Trans Bousfield and Lowry , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 204 , p. 283 ( 1906 ) .
Mr. W. R. Bousfield .
solution at the same temperature .
Let be he initial molecular interspace in a litre of the solution under no pressure except that of its own vapour .
Let the solution be now compressed to a pressure equal to its osmotic pressure P. Its volume will be reduced by an amount , so that the interspace volume is reduced to , whilst its internal vapour pressure is increased from to .
Then , assuming that the interspace vapour may be treated as a perfect gas , we have ; and since , we get If we compare this with the approximate thermodynamical result we see that our theory requires that the initial value of the interspace per litre of solution , old be Since , and ( taking the approximate value for water ) , the required interspace upon the above view is about 66 .
per litre at C. The conception that the vapour in the molecular interspaces of a solution behaves on compression of the solution approximately as a perfect gas thus leads to the same general result as that which is derived from thermodynamical considerations .
It furnishes a mental picture which may be compared with va n't Hoffs analogy of the solute behaving as if it were approximately a perfect gas existing in the space in which it is dissolved .
But the conception that the solute behaves as a perfect gas may lead to a mode of thought and a phraseology which are incorrect , whilst the conception that the vapour within the solution behaves as a perfect gas leads to a mode of thought and language which are strictly in accordance with the vapour pressure theory of osmotic pressure .
arriving at the result given above the assumptions made are of about the same order of inexactitude as those by which the approximate thermodynamical expression is reached .
The fundamental assumptions are that the molecular interspace is reduced by an amount equal to the total reduction of volume by compression , and that the number of steam-molecules existing in the interspace is unaltered 1oy compression .
If the molecules and atoms are themselves compressible the interspace would be reduced by a less amount than , but if the relative reductions were in a constant ratio this would not affect the Note on Osmotic Pressure .
character of the result .
The more serious matter is that compression does affect the proportions of the molecular varieties existing in water , especially at low temperatures and in dilute solutions .
It was shown in the paper to which reference has been made that with increasing concentration there is simplification of an aqueous solution which is .
probably due to " " the destruction of the ice-molecules to which water owes most of its abnormal properties But in a dilute solution near C. we have to reckon seriously with the ice-molecules .
As a matter of fact Morse and his co-workers* have observed a well marked abnormality in the value of the osmotic pressure of a decinormal sucrose solution at C. The efficiency of hydrostatic pressure in increasing vapour pressure in a dilute solution near the freezing-point is difficult to estimate .
The compressibility of water rises as we approach the freezing-point .
There the number of ice-molecules is greatest , and they are probably destroyed by compression in large numbers .
Ths molecular varieties into which these bulky ice-molecules are changed must have a less mean specific volume than the ice-molecules .
This probably means that the reaction due to pressure is more nearly 2 than Since the reduction of volume due to this change would not seriously affect the molecular interspace volume , the efficiency of hydrostatic pressure in producing change of vapour pressure would in this way be reduced near the freezing-point .
On the other hand , any generation of steam-molecules from the broken down ice-molecules would tend to increase such efficiency .
Morse and his co-workers state that they have iven special care to determining the osmotic pressure of their most dilute sucrose solution at C. They state that the osmotic pressure is actually greater at C. than at C. If this result } be relied upon it seems to show that the efficiency of hydrostatic in producing a rise of vapour pressure at the freezing-point is abnormally low .
The abnormality , .
however , seems to disappear at twice decinormal concentration .
Whilst our theoretical deductions as to Ghe nature of solutions which are derived from conductivity data must at present be based on dilute solutions , the reverse is the case with deductions from data as to osmotic pressures .
Fortunately at higher concentrations and temperatures the ice-molecules , whose sensitiveness to pressure disturbs osmotic measurements , practically disappear , and the aqueous solvent becomes approximately a simple binary mixture of and * Morse , Holland , Zies , Myers , Clark , and , 'Amer .
Chem. Journ vol. 45 , p. 602 ( 1911 ) .

