268 Dr. A. Dupre on the Elimination of Alcohol .
" On the Elimination of Alcohol " By A. Dupre , Ph. D. , Lee-turer on Chemistry at Westminster Hospital .
Communicated by William Odling , M.B. , F.R.S. Received November 16 1871* .
Previous to the year 1860 it was the generally received opinion that the greater portion of any alcohol taken was oxidized in the system , and only j small fraction eliminated unaltered .
In that year , however , Messrs. Perrin and Lallemand published an elaborate memoir on the subject , in which they maintained that all , or at least nearly all , the alcohol taken is eliminated .
unaltered .
This opinion was soon very generally adopted , notwithstanding the fact that Messrs. Perrin and Lallemand never succeeded in recovering , from the excretions , more than a very small fraction of the alcohol consumed , although very large doses were frequently given .
However , the missing alcohol was easily accounted for as loss , occasioned by its ready volatility .
Soon after Dr. Anstie took up the subject , and , on the strength of numerous qualitative experiments , arrived at the conclusion , which he was the first to publish in this country , that the originally received opinion was correct , viz. that a small portion only of any alcohol taken is eliminated unaltered .
After this , Dr. Thudichum and the author in this country , and Ichulinus abroad , undertook a number of quantitative experiments which proved that a minute fraction only of the alcohol taken is eliminated through the kidneys .
Owing to these researches , general opinion gradually reverted to the original notion .
Quite recently , however , Drs. Parks and Wollowicz have published several valuable memoirs on the action of brandy , alcohol , and wine on the human body , in which they adopt , at least partially , the views of Messrs. Perrin and Lallemand .
But here also no quantitative results are given which will account , even approximately , for the amount of alcohol supposed to be eliminated .
Drs. Parks and Wollowicz believe that the elimination of alcohol may go on for 5 or 6 days after the last dose of alcohol has been taken ; and they express the opinion that Dr. Anstie and the author , by assuming that elimination practically ceases after 24 hours , had considerably underestimated the amount actually eliminated .
The author has thereby been induced once more to investigate this subject .
Assuming , then , for the sake of argument , that all the alcohol is eliminated , and that such elimination takes 10 daysj* , it would follow that if a certain quantity of alcohol be taken daily , the amount eliminated would increase from day to day until , from the 10th day onward , the quantity * Head January 25 , 1872 .
( For abstract see p. 107 .
) t This seems the very utmost limit that can be conceded .
In the numerous expen ' ments of Dr. Bence Jones and the author , on the passage of substances into and out of the tissues , it was found that the elimination of lithium , for example , was complete J\#174 ; 5 to 6 days , while all elimination of quinine ceased after 2 days .
In neither case di any of the substance remain behind .
Dr. A. Dupre on the Elimination of Alcohol .
269 eliminated daily would equal the daily consumption ; in other words , the quantities which would be eliminated , if this theory were correct , might be measured by ounces instead of by grains , and even the most ordinary processes of analysis could not fail to yield considerable quantities of alcohol .
The argument loses nothing in force if it be contended that elimination lasts longer than 10 days ; for , however long it may last , if the alcohol diet is continued , a time must come when elimination and consumption would be equal .
Obviously , however , there is a tolerably narrow limit given to the time during which elimination can be presumed to last ; for the alcohol , if not eliminated , must accumulate in the body , and would speedily rise to a proportion totally incompatible with life itself .
The experiments recorded in the following pages were guided by the foregoing considerations .
Analytical processes employed.\#151 ; Since , in the experiments of Messrs. Perrin and Lallemand , the alcohol not recovered is accounted for as loss , the author has thought it of importance to give the analytical processes employed in greater detail than might otherwise be considered necessary .
It will thus be shown how much of the alcohol present can be recovered , and how much may reasonably be accounted for as loss .
Alcohol is eliminated through four channels , \#151 ; kidneys , lungs , skin , and bowel .
Examination of the Urine.\#151 ; The urine to be examined is rendered slightly acid by dilute sulphuric acid ; some tannin is added to prevent frothing , and about of it is distilled over .
This first distillate is now made slightly alkaline by caustic potash or soda , and redistilled ; this second distillate is once more acidified by sulphuric acid , and again distilled , being driven over each time .
If these three distillations reduce the amount of liquid to about 20 cub. centims. , it may at once be submitted to oxidation .
If , however , the amount of urine employed was so large that this third distillate amounts to much more than 20 cub. centims. , the redistillation must be repeated until the quantity is brought down to 20 cub. centims. Less than three distillations should , however , in no case be made .
All distillations should , moreover , be conducted with an apparatus in which both retort and receiver are connected air-tight with the condenser , the receiver being furnished with a safety-tube closed by a globule of mercury .
The final distillate is now put into a small assay flask , a suitable amount of bichromate solution is added , the flask is closed by a wellfitting caoutchouc-stopper tied down , and heated for one hour in a water-bath .
The flask is then taken out , cooled , opened , and the excess of bichromate left is reduced by zinc .
( The bichromate solution is made by dissolving 147 grammes of potassium bichromate in water , adding 200 grammes of strong sulphuric acid , and making up the solution to f400 cub. centims. Ten cub. centims. of this solution will oxidize nearly 0'2 gramme alcohol into acetic acid .
After a little practice , it is easy to judge by the colour of the liquid in the flask whether or no sufficient bichromate had been added .
) When all the bichromate is reduced , the green solution 270 Dr. A. Dupre on the Elimination of Alcohol .
is transferred to a small retort , some sulphuric acid is added , and the acetic acid present is distilled over .
To do so effectually , the distillation is con .
tinued almost to dryness , some water is then added to the residue , and the distillation resumed ; this is repeated three times , The distillation may he conducted over an Argand burner , and .
sometimes it is advisable to place pieces of tobacco-pipe into the retort to avoid bumping .
In the distillate the acetic acid is now estimated by a standard solution of deci-normal soda , 1 cub. centim. of which neutralizes 0-006 grm. acetic acid , and indicates therefore 0-0046 grm. of alcohol .
If ordinary care has been used , no trace of sulphuric acid will be present in the distillate ; but if the distillation has been carried too far , so that the residue in the retort has become dry , traces of sulphuric acid may have passed into the distillate .
In such case the acidity of the distillate is carefully estimated , and the neutral solution is evaporated to dryness on a water-bath .
To the dry residue an amount of deci- normal sulphuric acid is added slightly in excess of the quantity of deci- normal soda used , and the resulting solution is once more evaporated on the water-bath .
During this second evaporation all the acetic acid is driven off .
The acidity of the residue is now determined as before , and will be found equal only to the excess of deci- normal acid taken , in case nothing but acetic acid ( or other volatile acid ) was present in the distillate .
If , however , any sulphuric acid had passed over , the acidity of this residue will be found greater than the excess of deci- normal acid added , and this surplus is the measure of the sulphuric acid contained in the distillate .
If this then is subtracted from the total acidity originally found , the rest will be the acetic acid .
If an appreciable amount of volatile acid is present , which to a great extent may be judged of by the colour of the bichromate solution after the heating , the disturbing effect of any sulphuric acid having passed over may also be neutralized in the following manner .
The distillate is accurately divided into two equal parts ; the acidity of the one half is estimated directly , the other half is evaporated on a water-bath , and the acidity of the residue left is determined .
The difference between these two determinations will give the volatile acid present in one half of the distillate .
Lastly , the acetic acid may be estimated by neutralizing the distillate by pure barium carbonate , filtering , washing , \amp ; c. , evaporating the solution to dryness , and weighing the barium acetate left .
The above process yields accurate results , even with very small quantities of alcohol ; thus in two check experiments the amount of alcohol taken was 0"1 and 0-025 gramme , the acetic acid obtained neutralized 20 " 1 cub. centims. and 5"5 cub. centims. of deci- normal soda , corresponding respectively to 0-0924 and 0 0253 gramme of alcohol .
Examination of Breath.\#151 ; By help of a suitable mouthpiece the breath is blown , through a wide tube containing chloride of calcium , into a bag placed between light-pressure boards ( such a bag as is used in the administration of laughing-gas , and holding from 4 to 5 cubic feet ) .
From this bag it passes into a flask containing water , thence into a Liebig 's con- Dr. A. Dupre on the Elimination of Alcohol .
271 denser in connexion with a receiver , and finally escapes into the air .
The experiment is conducted as follows The bag being empty , the water in the flask is heated to boiling , and the breath is blown into the apparatus for a quarter to half an hour .
The breath is first deprived of most of its moisture by the chloride of calcium , and next enters the bag dry , or nearly so .
From the bag it passes , at considerably reduced speed , through the flask , where it becomes mixed with steam , into the condenser .
In this last the steam is condensed , and with it the greater part of the alcohol vapours present .
The alcohol will therefore be found in the distilled water collected in the receiver .
When the breath has been blown into the apparatus during the desired length of time , the blowing is discontinued , the tube is closed by a clamp , and the air collected in the bag is allowed to pass gradually through the retort and condenser .
The chloride of calcium is now dissolved in water , the solution is added to the distillate collected , and the alcohol therein contained is estimated by repeated distillations , oxidation , \amp ; c. , as described in the case of urine .
If it is desired to blow for a greater length of time than half an hour , it is necessary , with a bag of the above size , to blow it up twice , each time of course allowing all the air collected to pass out through the retort and condenser .
At first it is difficult to keep up the ordinary rate of respiration while blowing into the bag ; but with a little practice this becomes easy , and a bag holding about 4 cubic feet will then suffice for half an hour 's breathing .
At the end of this time about 4 cubic feet of air should be in the bag , while 2 cubic feet have passed through the apparatus ; the bag will then take one hour more to become empty .
The bag has thus to serve both as a reservoir and regulator , reducing the velocity of the air-current to about one third .
The desired velocity is readily obtained by a proper adjustment of the weights on the pressure-boards .
The boiling of the water in the flask is regulated so as to give about half a litre distilled water for every 12 cubic feet of air passing through .
The breath was blown through the apparatus for half an hour .
1 he following quantitative experiments , made under precisely the same conditions as the experiments with the breath , will serve to show that the greater part of the alcohol carried by the air is condensed with the steam .
A given quantity of alcohol was evaporated in a current of air , which was afterwards passed through the apparatus at the same speed as the breath .
In the distillate obtained , the alcohol was estimated as described .
The amount of air taken was 12 cubic feet , equivalent to about one hour 's breathing , and necessitated the filling of the bag twice .
First experiment.\#151 ; Amount of alcohol evaporated 0'004 gramme ; acetic acid obtained neutralized 0'67 cub. centim. d. n. soda , equivalent to 0 031 gramme alcohol .
Second experiment.\#151 ; Amount of alcohol evaporated 0*008 grm. ; acetic acid obtained neutralized 1*25 cub. centim. d. n. soda , equivalent to 0*0058 grm. alcohol .
third experiment.\#151 ; Amount of alcohol evaporated 0*0415 grm. ; acetic Dr. A. Dupre on the Elimination of Alcohol acid obtained neutralized 6*05 cub. centim. d. n. soda , equivalent to 0-02 78 grm. alcohol .
In the first two experiments f , in the last S of the alcohol contained in the 12 cubic feet of air was recovered in the distillate .
In a blank experiment , in which air only was blown through the apparatus , no trace of volatile acid was obtained .
Examination of Alvine Discharges.\#151 ; These are stirred up with water , the mixture is distilled \amp ; c. , and the alcohol in the final distillate is estimated as described .
In the experiments recorded in the following Tables , the alvine discharges were not examined , previous experiments having convinced the author that , even in cases where very large quantities of brandy are taken for some length of time , the amount of alcohol eliminated by the bowel is extremely small .
Examination of Cutaneous Exudations .
No attempt was made to estimate the amount of alcohol eliminated by the skin .
Qualitatively , however , the fact that traces of alcohol are thus eliminated may be shown as follows :\#151 ; Part of the body is enclosed for several hours in an air-tight covering ; at the end of that time the perspiration collected is washed off with clean water , the distillate from which is then tested with bichromate and strong sulphuric acid .
Dr. Anstie has made numerous experiments in this manner , which show conclusively that the amount so eliminated is always extremely minute .
The actual amount eliminated might perhaps be estimated , with tolerable exactness , by enclosing an ascertained traction of the entire surface of the body in an air-tight bag , through which a current of dry air is passed .
In this air the alcohol is then determined exactly as in the case of the breath .
By means of the method just described , two series of experiments on the elimination of alcohol were made , and , for the sake of absolute certainty , the author conducted them in his own person .
First Series.\#151 ; Having first abstained absolutely , for a space of 10 days , from all alcoholic drinks or other articles of food containing alcohol , the urine was collected on the 11th day , and the breath blown through the apparatus for half an hour .
On the 12th day , and on each of the twelve succeeding days , 112 cub. centims. of brandy* were taken daily ( 28 cub. centims. at 1 p.m. , 56 cub. centims. at 6 p.m. , and 28 cub. centims. at 11 p.m. ) .
The urine was collected between the hours of 3 p.m. one day and 3 p.m. the following day , on 1st , 6th , and 12th day of the brandy diet , and 4 p.m. on the same above-mentioned days .
Lastly , the urine was collected during the 5 days following the cessation of the brandy diet .
The analytical results obtained are arranged in the following Table .
* The brandy contained 43-47 per cent , by weight of absolute alcohol .
Dr. A. Dupre on the Elimination of Alcohol .
373 Table I.\#151 ; Left off taking alcohol February 26 , 1871 ; first cub. centim. of brandy taken March 8th at 6 p.m. \ Total amount of absolute alcohol taken during the twelve days j 625*92 grms. # Total amount of absolute alcohol discharged by the kidneys during the I same twelve days , 0*3984 grim , taking the daily elimination at 0*0332 grm. , the mean of that on the 1st and 12th day .
Total amount of absolute alcohol eliminated by the lungs , taking the j amount discharged at 3 p.m. on the 14th as representing the mean elimination during the day , and adding -j for loss , as shown by the control ex-I periments , 0'2064 grm. Table II.\#151 ; 56 cub. centims. brandy ( 26-08 grms. absolute alcohol ) taken 10 a.m. March 29th .
| Period of elimination .
Alcohol eliminated by breath during 1 hour Alcohol eliminated by breath during entire period .
Quantity of urine discharged in cub. centims. Alcohol eliminated in the urine .
Yielded A , which neutralized cub. centim. deci- normal soda .
Equivalent to grammes of alcohol .
A obtained neutralized cub. centim. deci- normal soda .
Equivalent to grammes of alcohol .
First 3 hours 6-9 003174 0 09522 570 36-36 046720 Second 3 hours 0-3 .00138 .00414 92 .63 .00290 Third 3 hours 0-25 =00115 .00345 180 .45 .00207 Fourth 3 hours . . .
120 .05 .00023 Next 12 hours . . .
350 .36 .00166 1 st day following ... .
0-25 .00115 .02760 900 .40 .00184 2nd day following ... 025 .00115 .02760 1050 .46 .00212 Date .
Cubic centimetre deci- normal soda neutralized by acetic acid obtained from Amount of alcohol , corresponding to this acid , discharged in 24 hours , in grammes , through Amount of absolute alcohol taken in the 24 hours .
a hour 's breath .
24 hours ' urine .
Breath .
Urine .
March 8 003 0-67 0-0083 0-0031 None .
q 005 944 00138 0 0434 52-16 \gt ; \gt ; " 14 005 7-80 00138 0-0359 5216 20 0-04 5-00 00110 0-0230 52-16 21 0-64 0-0029 None .
If AL ... ... 99 0-29 00013 \#187 ; A* 0-40 00018 ff \#187 ; A* 94 0-50 00023 )\gt ; \#187 ; " " 25 0-45 0-0021 ff 274 Dr. A. Dupre on the Elimination of Alcohol .
Second series.\#151 ; Discontinued the use of alcohol , in any shape , on March the 20th .
On March the 29th , at 10 a.m. , took 56 cub. centims. brandy ( same brandy as in previous experiments ) .
Urine collected for every 3 hours up to the 12th , from the 12th to the 24th hour , and during the next succeeding 2 days .
The breath was passed through the apparatus , for ten minutes at a time , in every halt hour during the first 9 hours , and during 1 hour ( between 2 and 4 p.m. ) on the 2 days following .
The results are arranged in Table II .
p. 273 .
Total amount of absolute alcohol eliminated through the kidney during the 3 days 0T780grm .
; more than y9^ of this amount was eliminated during the first 3 hours .
Total amount of absolute alcohol eliminated through the lungs during the 3 days ( adding -k for loss ) 0'2336 grm. In both cases all the volatile acid obtained during the 3 days is calculated as alcohol .
An examination of Table I. shows that , even after 10 days ' total abstinence , a substance is eliminated by the kidneys , and apparently also in the breath , which , when distilled and oxidized , yields a volatile acid ( the acid has the smell of acetic acid ) .
An opportunity was therefore taken to examine the urine of a gentleman , a teetotaler , who had only once in his life , and that two years previously , taken some spirituous liquor .
On treating this urine in the usual manner , for the detection and estimation of alcohols , an amount of volatile acid was obtained from 1 day 's urine which neutralized 0*5 cub. centim. deci- normal soda .
The experiment was twice repeated with different days ' urine with the same result .
The smell of the volatile acid in this case also was that of acetic acid .
We must therefore look upon this substance , whatever it may be , which yields the volatile acid as a normal constituent of urine .
The elimination of alcohol must , then , be considered at an end as soon as the proportion of volatile acid obtained sinks to the normal amount .
Leaving , then , the nature of this substance out of consideration for the present , we arrive at the following conclusions :\#151 ; 1st .
The amount of alcohol eliminated per day does not increase with the continuance of the alcohol diet ; therefore all the alcohol consumed daily must of necessity be disposed of daily ; and as it certainly is not eliminated within that time , it must be destroyed in the system .
2nd .
The elimination of alcohol following a dose or doses of alcohol is completed 24 hours after the last dose has been taken .
3rd .
I he amount of alcohol eliminated , in both breath and urine , is ft minute fraction only of the amount of alcohol taken* A consideration of Table II .
leads substantially to the same conclusions .
Here , a single dose having been taken , elimination had ceased to be per* Quite recently I have examined the urine of a woman suffering from ascites , who at the time of the experiment took 12 ounces of brandy ( 38 per cent , by weight of absolute alcohol ) daily , and had done so during a period of six weeks .
Two days ' urine yielded 0 0366 grm. of acetic acid , equivalent to 0-02806 grm. , or 0-44 grain alcohol .
Dr. A. Dupre on the Elimination of Alcohol .
275 ceptible ; that is , the amount of volatile acid yielded on oxidation had sunk to the normal amount 9 hours after the dose had been taken .
The proportion of alcohol eliminated in this second experiment , although still small , is , however , considerably higher than it was in the first ; but this is most likely owing to the different conditions under which the experiment was made .
The two ounces of brandy were taken within a very short space of time and early in the morning , no other food being taken at the same time .
In consequence of this , the brandy had a considerable diuretic effect during the first few hours , within which , as will be seen , more than of the total proportion was eliminated .
It has been shown in the foregoing that urine , even after 10 days of total abstinence , when treated as for the estimation of alcohol , yields some volatile acid which , as judged by the smell , is acetic acid .
A similar substance was also found in the urine of a teetotaler ; and a preliminary experiment having shown that at least the greater part of this substance passed over with the first portions of distillate , a somewhat larger quantity of the same urine was obtained and examined .
The total quantity employed amounted to 180 ounces , being the greater part of 10 days ' urine .
To avoid decomposition , the daily portion of urine was at once acidified slightly , and of it distilled ; this distillate was rendered alkaline and redistilled .
At the end of the 8 days , all these distillates were mixed , acidified , and again distilled .
This third portion was now twice distilled over freshly ignited animal charcoal , after which the distillations were repeated until the quantity of liquid was reduced to 10 cub. centims. , care being taken that never less than ^ was driven over .
All the distillations were , moreover , conducted with the usual precautions of having the receiver closed by a mercury valve .
These 10 cub. centims. show'ed the following properties :\#151 ; Specific gravity at 15'*5 C- , 0 9996 water at the same temperature taken j as unity .
Vapour-tension in Geissler 's vaporimeter equivalent to 0*88 per cent , by weight of alcohol .
3 593 of it , when oxidized by bichromate \amp ; c. , yielded an acid distillate which , when neutralized by barium carbonate , filtered and evaporated , gave 0*0192 grm. barium salt ; this barium salt , on decomposition with sulphuric acid , gave 0*0170 grm. of barium sulphate , and contained therefore 53*88 per cent , of barium ; pure barium acetate contains 53*72 per cent , barium .
The acid vapours expelled had the smell of acetic acid .
Another portion readily gave the emerald-green reaction with bichromate and strong svdphuric acid , and finally they readily gave the iodoform test , viz. when treated with iodine and an alkali , a yellow glittering precipitate was produced , which , under the microscope , consisted of golden-coloured six-sided plates , sometimes single , sometimes united into stars in the manner of snow-crystals .
ihe author having again abstained from the use of alcohol since May the 16th , the urine was collected from May the 29th to June the 10th 276 Dr. A. Dupre on the Elimination of Alcohol .
( with the exception of June the 4th and 5th ) , amounting altogether during the .
10 days to 360 oz. This urine was treated exactly as the previous sample , and the amount of distillate finally collected was also 10 cub. centims ; these 10 cub. centims. possessed a specific gravity 0f 0- 9988 at 15'-5 C. In Geissler 's vaporimeter they showed a vapour-tension equivalent to 1- 7 per cent , by weight of alcohol ; 3*588 grms. of it , when oxidized \amp ; \lt ; * .
, gave 0-0307 grm. barium salt , yielding 0-0278 grm. barium sulphate , and contained therefore 53*24 per cent , of barium : here also the smell of the escaping acetic acid was unmistakable .
The volatile acid obtained from another portion of these 10 cub. centims. gave with ferric chloride distinctly , though but feebly , the well-known reaction of acetic acid .
Finally , they gave readily the iodoform test , as well as the green reaction , with bichromate and strong sulphuric acid .
On June the 22nd and 23rd the urine was again collected and examined , no alcohol having been taken since May the 16th .
The urine of the 22nd yielded an amount of acid neutralizing 0*53 cub. centim. deci- normal soda , the volatile acid produced from the distillate of the urine on the 23rd neutralizing 0*55 cub. centim. of the same soda .
Lastly , the urine was collected on June the 26th , 27th , and 28th , no alcohol whatever having been taken since May the 16th .
The urine was repeatedly distilled , as usual , the final distillate amounting to 5 cub. centims. ; these 5 cub. centims. readily gave the iodoform test , as well as the green reaction , with bichromate and strong sulphuric acid .
It appears , therefore , that a substance is found in the urine after six weeks ' total abstinence , and even after an abstinence of two years , which gives the reactions ordinarily employed for the detection of small quantities of alcohol .
Since it is impossible to assume that any elimination of alcohol , due to alcohol which has been taken , could go on for a period of six weeks , not to speak of two years , we must conclude that this substance is a normal constituent of human urine , or at least may be obtained from it by distillation with dilute acid \amp ; c. At first the author inclined to the belief that this substance is actually ethylic alcohol , although the very small quantities dealt with did not allow of its separation .
The final distillate obtained is , however , evidently a mixture ; and it would therefore be unsafe to rely solely on the above test as a sufficient demonstration of the presence of alcohol , more particularly as the proportion of alcohol , as calculated from the specific gravity , differs widely from that derived from the vapour-tension , and neither agree with the proportion as calculated from thf amount of acetic acid obtained by oxidation .
Moreover , the distillate yield !
the iodoform test far more readily than would correspond to its alcoholic strength as calculated by any of the above processes , and the appearance of the precipitate also differs somewhat from that produced in pure dilute alcohol .
However , while still engaged in the examination of this substance , the author learned that M. Lieben , to whom we owe the introducDr .
A. Dupre on the Elimination of Alcohol .
tion of the iodoform test , had already discovered the presence of a volatile substance in human urine , as well as in that of various animals , which gives the iodoform test .
Working on larger quantities of urine , he has arrived at the conclusion that this substance is not alcohol .
M. Lieben also has failed to isolate and identify the substance , owing to the very small quantity present in the urine 5 he thinks , however , that it may be one of the odoriferous constituents of the urine .
According to the author 's experience this cannot , however , be the case , since , first , the quantity of substance yielding the iodoform does not seem to be diminished by distillation over animal charcoal , whereas the urinous odour is thus almost entirely removed ; secondly , the urinous odour of the distillate , in case no animal charcoal was used , is not destroyed by heating with the bichromate solution , which nevertheless produces acetic acid ; thirdly , a somewhat similar substance seems present in the breath .
It might be , however , that the substance giving the iodoform test and that yielding the acetic acid are two different compounds ; this must be left to future researches to decide .
In conclusion , it may not be uninteresting to point out that the quantity of substance which yields the acetic acid apparently falls below the normal proportion just after the effect of a dose or .
doses of alcohol has passed off ; after which it gradually rises again to the normal standard .
A somewhat analogous effect was observed by Dr. Bence Jones and the author , in their research on the passage of quinine into and out of the tissues \amp ; c. , to follow the administration of quinine .
In this case the natural fluorescence of the extracts from the tissues , due to the presence of a substance resembling quinine , and therefore called animal quinoidine by the discoverers , frequently fell below the normal standard just after the effect of the quinine had passed of^ , gradually rising again to the normal proportion .
A closer study of this relation might perhaps throw considerable light on the physiological action of alcohol both in health and in disease .
April 11 , 1872 .
The EARL OF ROSSE , D.C.L. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following Letter was read Whitehall , 23rd February , 1872 .
Sir , -\#151 ; I have had the honour to lay before the Queen the loyal and dutiful Address of the President , Council , and Fellows of the lloyal Society on the occasion of the illness of His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales .
I have to inform you that Her Majesty was pleased to receive the Address very graciously .
I am , Sir , your obedient Servant , ( Signed ) H. A. Bruce .
Sharpey , Esq. , M.D. , Secretary to the Royal , Burlington House , W. von .
xx .
x

