]\gt ; The Molecular tistics of some Chemical Actions .
By the Hon. R. J. STRUTT , F.E.S. , of Physics , Imperial of Science , South Kensington .
( Received June 13 , \mdash ; Read June 13 , 1912 .
) S1 .
Introduction .
Very little has been written on the kinetic theory of gases in its chemical aspect .
There can be no doubt that when a gas is absorbed or chemically acted on by a solid surface , the rate at which the change proceeds must depend the number of collisions made by gas molecules with the surface .
But how many such collisions are required before a result is achieved ?
The usual methods of investigating the velocity of chemical action in gases are not capable of giving much information on this subject .
For under the usual conditions the action at the surface takes place so quickly as to be virtually instantaneous , and the observed effects are mainly governed by the rate at which new unaltered material can make its way to the scene of action .
Again the solid will , in most cases , be altered in the course of the action , becoming less efficient .
This introduces another difficulty .
I have been able , by the selection of certain rather special cases , to evade or overcome these difficulties , and wish now to present the results .
I shall also discuss from the kinetic standpoint a case of chemical change occurring entirely aseous molecules .
S2 .
Action The first case to be discussed is the well known action of silver , or rather of silver oxide , in a silver surface is presented to this , it rapidly becomes oxidised and is then capable of destroying any quantity of ozone , without itself under , further permanent change .
* The exact nature of this action is not definitely known .
It has been suggested that it may consist of alternate oxidation and reduction However this may be , it is certain that some of the ozone moIecules which strike ainst the solid surface are destroyed , and do not return to the gas as ozone .
The question here proposed for experimental investigation is this\mdash ; what fraction of the total number of such collisions produce this result ?
Or , * Andrews and Tait , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1859 , vol. 9 , p. 607 .
The Motecular tistics of some Chemical Actions .
in other words , how many times must an ozone molecule strike a silver surface before it is destroyed ?
If a current of air at low pressure is passed through an electric discharge tube , the issuing gas is luminous with a greenish-yellow .
The glow is due to the presence of ozone and nitric oxide , after the electric rJischarge has passed .
These substances react to the glow .
For the proof of these statements I refer to a former paper .
* If now the gas is allowed to pass a silver ze partition , the luminosity is completely extinguished .
This is undoubtedly due to the above action of silver in destroying ozone ; for if we put in more ozone into the stream after it has passed the silver gauze , the glow is restored .
Let A be the area of the total silver the velocity of mean square of the ozone molecules , the density of ozone in the stream as it arrives at the silver gauze .
Then the mass moving up to the surface per second , in virtue of the molecular velocity of itation neariy .
S Now let be the volume of the rarefied actually the gauze per second .
Then the mass of ozone passing per , and mass on silver per second , divided by total per second , is ) .
If now we measure the mass by the number of molecules , the above algebraical expression ives us the ratio of number of collisions to number of molecules passing , or , in other words , the number of times each molecule must ( the average ) strike the silver surface as it passes .
Every quantity entering into the formula is assignable , and we can , accordingly , determine the above number .
If the gauze is of just sufficient area to quench the completely , we may infer that molecule of ozone is destroyed , and consequently we a superior limit to the number of collisions ( on the average ) necessary to effect this .
The interest and nificance of the result will on how close the limit thus deduced is to the true value .
This will depend in turn on how far we can give all the ozone cules an equal chance of striking the surface .
If some of the molecules have to diffuse through a considerable layer of gas before they can get near to it , then those initially in a more favourable position will have collided many times the former have * Phys. Soc. Proc December , 1910 , vol. 23 , p. 1 .
, p. 34 .
Not the area of the gauze , but the aggregate area of the wires which constitute it , which is usually about twice as great for fine gauzes .
S O. E. Meyer , ' Kinetic Theory of Gases , ' p. 83 .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ June 13 , done so at all , and the experiment will measure , not the number of necessary to destroy the ozone molecule when it has got to the surface , but rather the amount of obstruction it has to overcome in getting there .
To render these conceptions precise would lead us into very difficult problems .
It is evident , however , that the finer the gauze , and the lower the pressure of the gas stream , the more nearly we shall approach the ideal of oiving every ozone molecule in turn its fair and equal chance of reaching the silver surface .
We shall see from the actual experimental result that the ideal can be closely approached in practice .
It is not necessary , therefore , to attempt the difficult task of foreseeing the necessary conditions The apparatus used is shown in fig. 1 .
A stream of air enters stopcock where its pressure reatly reduced .
Thence it passes through the discharge FIG. 1 .
tube , where it is charged with ozone and with nitric oxide , which , as already indicated , shows the presence of ozone by the luminosity of their interaction in ; thence to the silver gauze partition , where the ozone is destroyed , and the glow ceases .
It was desired to find the minimum area of silver which would produce this result , and experience proved that the area in question was very small .
The silver gauze available had 22 wires per centimetre in each direction , and the diameter of each wire was mm. Each square centimetre of the gauze accordingly presented sq .
cm .
of silver surface per square centimetre .
The diameter of the gauze-filled diaphragm could not well be reduced below 2 mm. , since a smaller aperture would have unduly restricted the flow of rarefied gas , and 2 mm. still seemed more than enough to all the ozone , with the stream of gas as rapid and as highly rarefied as the 1912 .
] The Molecular Statistics of some Chemical Actions .
305 air pump available could make it .
, the part of the gauze filling the aperture was unravelled , leaving only the wires parallel to one direction , and thus reducing the silver area by half .
The gauze was mounted between two discs of mica , in each of which there was a hole 2 mm. diameter .
The unravelled gauze between the holes exposed to the gas stream was mechanically supported by the part behind the mica .
The latter part of the gauze was not unravelled .
The sealed-in glass funnel was to support the mica as shown .
On either side of the diaphragm were tubes either of which could be put into communication with a McLeod gauge .
The rate of air intake was easily measured in cubic centimetres per second by drawing in the air from a graduated vessel standing over ater , and from this , combined with the pressure , the volume of the -pressure stream passing the gauze per second could be deduced .
The following are examples of experiments made with the apparatus thus arranged:\mdash ; Area of Silver Surface exposed to the as Stream , sq .
We may take as a round figure that sq .
cm .
of silver is capable of completely removing the glow from a stream of gas amounting to 200 per second , measured at the low pressure .
Taking the value of , the velocity of mean square for ozone as cm .
per second , we get for the ratio of number of impacts with silver to number of molecules passing , the value , or nearly .
It follows , therefore , that collisions with the silver surface certainly suffice on the average to destroy a molecule of ozone .
It must be remembered that this number is a superior limit which can hardly , in the nature of the case , be within a small percentage of the exact value .
For if all the ozone molecules are without fail to strike the surface once ( and the extinction of the glow implies this ) then some will inevitably strike it more than once .
Bearing this in mind the results point strongly to the conclusion Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ June 1S , that one collision with a silver surface , one onty , enough to destroy an ozone lolecule .
Indeed , even postulating this , it is somewhat surprising that so low a value as for the ratio of number of collisions to number of molecules should be consistent with complete extinction of the glow .
S3 .
Action of Copper Oxide on Active Nitrogen .
The next case to be considered has many points in common with the preceding .
I have described in several publications*an active modification of nitrogen produced by electric dischalge .
This active modification probably consists of monatomic , and , for the sake of clearness , I shall assume definitely that such is the case .
The monatonlic nitrogen usually reverts to the ordinary kind with luminosity in the course of a few minutes , the change a volume one .
But , by the action of a copper oxide surface the action becomes almost instantaneous .
The surface must be supposed in some way to hold the impinging molecules so as to them a better chance of uniting , as in the union of oxygen and hydrogen in contact with platinum .
This is well illustrated by the following experiment , which was shown to a large audience at the Royal Society Soiree on May 11 , 1912 , but has not been otherwise published .
A bulb ( fig. 2 ) of 300 .
capacity is provided with a side tube as shown .
In this lies an oxidised copper wire , which fits it as closely as is consistent with easy sliding .
The bulb contains rarefied nitrogen at a suitable pressure , about After passing the electrodeless disobarge it glows brilliantly for a minute or more , during which time the reversion of active nitrogen is in progress .
On turning the bulb so as to drop the wire into it , the luminosity is extinguished in less than one second .
The same method and apparatus as were used for ozone and silver were available in the present instance , with little modification .
A current of pure nitrogen was used , and a jar discharge passed to produce the active modification .
Oxidised copper gauze was used of silver , and a very much larger surface was found necessary to destroy the glow .
The copper auze used had wires per centimetre , the diameter of each wire being mm. This gives sq .
cm .
( oxidised ) copper surface per square centimetre of 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1911 , , vol. 85 , p. 219 ; 1911 , , vol. 86 , p. 56 ; 1912 , , vol. 86 , p. 262 .
1912 .
] The Molecular Statistics of some Actions .
307 gauze .
The discs used filled the entire cross-section of the tube in which they were mounted , tead of being fixed in a , and their diameter was 14 mm. One such disc was not found nearly capable of extinguishing the glow , and two or more were accordingly used in succession .
There was no reason for unravelling the gauze as in the silver-ozone experiments .
It was used intact .
The velocity of meftn of the active nitrogen molecule at ordinary temperatures is taken as .
This is on the supposition of a monatomic ] ecule .
If some othel ' hypothesis is preferred , the appropriate correction can be introduced , but it will not much affect the broad conclusion .
I quote two experiments\mdash ; ( 1 ) Two discs of oxidised gauze .
gregaCe surface sq .
cm .
intake .
per second at 760 mm. Pressure at gauze mm. Hence , vohune of gas stream 190 .
per second .
Number of collisions divided by number of lnolectlles is 520- .
The bolow was distinctly perceptible , though feeble , after passing the discs .
( 2 ) Three discs of oxidised gauze .
nface 9 sq .
cm .
Nitrogen intake c.c. per second at 760 mm. Pressure at gauze mm. Hence volume of gas stream 145 .
per second .
Number .
collisions divided by number of molecules is 1030 .
The glow was completely uished after passing the third disc .
We may take the mean value 780 for the above ratio as the minimum for complete extinction under the experimental conditions .
These were nearly the same as in the silver-ozone experiments of S2 .
In those experiments it was concluded as probable that the actual number of collisions necessary to destroy a molecule was less than the superior limit indicated by obseryation in the ratio ] .
If we assume that the holds in the present case , we find that an active nitrogen molecule must on the collide 500 times with an oxidised copper surface before it is destroyed .
I have noticed , however , that the efficiency of an oxidised copper surface in this respect is by no means constant , but varies according to the treatment it has received .
Thus its efficiency is greater after heating in a vacuum .
The improvement persists for some time after cooling , but eventually disappearH .
The above number is only illustrative , and is not to be regarded as a definite constant .
S4 .
Volume Chcmge of Ozone to There is not the same difficulty in treating chemical change occurring throughout the volume of a gas from the kinetic standpoint , as is encountered Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ June 13 , when the action occurs at a solid surface ; the complication introduced by what may be called imperfect , alluded to above , is absent .
On the other hand , very few chemical changes are known in gaseous systems which proceed at a conveniently measurable rate , and are independent of anything happening at the walls of the vessel , or of stimulation by light from The only data I have been able to find are some given by Chapman and Jones*on the change of ozone into oxygen .
They show that this change proceeds at a rate independent of the area of walls of the glass vessel , and approximately proportional to the square of the ozone concentration .
This justifies the assumption that the change results from collisions between ozone molecules throughout the volume of the gas thus : Their experiments were made at 10 C. In one series the change of pressure due to conversion of ozone into oxygen proceeded initially at a rate of cm .
of sulphuric acid per minute .
Remembering that two volumes of ozone decompose into three volumes of oxygen , this gives for the partial pressure of the ozone decomposed cm .
of sulphuric acid per minute , or atmospheres per second .
The number of molecules per cubic centimetre of a gas under standard conditions may be taken as , or per atmosphere at Thus the number of ozone molecules decomposed per second was , or I shall call those collisions between ozone molecules which result in chemical decomposition , successfut collisions .
The number of these is half the number of ozone molecules decomposed .
There were , therefore , successful collisions per cubic centimetre per second .
We require next the total number of collisions between ozone molecules per cubic centimetre per second .
The collision frequency of a molecule is , where is the pressure and the coefficient of viscosity .
If molecules are present , the number of collisions made altogether per second is .
Each collision , it is to be remembered , affects two molecules .
To evaluate this expression in the actual case we require a value for the viscosity of ozone at 10 C. No experimental values for this quantity are available , indeed the difficulty of working experimentally with highly concentrated ozone at this temperature would probably be insuperable .
As , however , only a rough idea is necessary , and since the viscosities of all 'Trans .
Chem. Soc 1910 , vol. 97 , p. 2476 .
1912 .
] The Motecular tistics of some Chemical Action. .
309 gases are of the same order of magnitude , it will suffice to guess a value .
I take In the experiment of Chapman and Jones , already referred to , the ultimate change of pressure when all ozone was destroyed amounted to cm .
of sulphuric acid .
The initial ozone pressure must therefore have been twice this , i.e. of sulphuric acid , or dynes per square centimetre .
This makes the number of ozone molecules per cubic centimetre initially present , Substituting these values , we get for the number of collisions per cubic centimetre per second , We get then ratio of total number of collisions to number of successful collisions It is to be observed that this result is independent of the constant , the number of molecules per cubic centimetre of a gas under standard conditions .
constant has only been introduced because it seemed to help exposition .
The broad result is that molecules of ozone at 10 C. must , on the averag coltide times before the right sort of coltision occrn.s for chemical union .
S5 .
ondusio and Sum The methods here applied in special cases may , perhaps , admit of more extended application .
It may , for instance , be possible to study from a kinetic-molecular point of view the oxidation of copper , or the reduction of copper oxide by .
If a small quantity of hydrogen were carried by a stream of rarefied nitrogen past a heated copper oxide gauze , the area necessary to completely take out hydrogen might be determined , and an estimate of what fraction of all the collisions is chemically effective might be made .
I hope experimenters may be induced to take up this and similar problems .
Summary .
When ozone acts on a silver oxide surface , every collision results in the destruction of the ozone molecule concerned .
( 2 ) An active nitrogen molecule must , on the average , collide 500 times with an oxidised copper surface before it is destroyed .
( 3 ) Two molecules of ozone at 10 C. must , on the average , collide times before the sort of collision occurs for chemical union .

