V. Mr. Zachary Mayne 's Letter , 1694 .
Concerning a Spout of Water that happened at Topsham on the River between the Sea and Exeter .
SIR , I Received yours , and should have given my self much sooner the Satisfaction of Answering it , had I not met with hindrances ; I have taken pains to get the best Information that I could , and hope I have with some difficulty picked out a little Truth out of a vast heap of Falshoods .
My Informants are Persons using the Seas , and are well acquainted with ( Accidents shall I call them , or rather ) Prodigies of this Nature , which are very frequent abroad , though rarely , I think it is said never seen before with us in our River , though some pretend to have seen of them in the Downs .
The French call these sorts of Appearances Trombs , I suppose from the Figure and the Noise that they make , that word signifying a sort of Humming Top .
They are certain Elevations of Water during Storms and Tempests , reaching from the Superficies of the Sea to the Clouds .
They happen several ways , sometimes the Water is seen to boil , and raise it self for a considerable space round about a Foot from the Surface , above which appears , as it were , a thick and black Smoke , in the midst of which is observed a sort of Stream or Pipe resembling a Tunnel , which arises as high as the Clouds ; At other times these Pipes or Tunnels are observed to come from the Clouds , and suck up the Water with great noise and violence .
They move from the place where they were first gathered according to the motion of the Wind , and discharge themselves sometimes into the Sea , to the unavoidable Destruction of such Ships as are in their way , if they be small Vessels , and to their great Damage be they never so big : Sometimes on the Shore , beating down all they meet with , and raising the Sand and Stones to a prodigious height .
It is said , that Vessels that have any Force usually fire their Guns at them loaden with a Bar of Iron , and if they be so happy as to strike them , the Water is presently seen to run out of them with a might noise , but no further mischief .
Ours happened Tuesday last , the 7th.of August , 1694 .
between Nine and Ten of the Clock in the Forenoon ; it was then very near , if not quite low Woter , which is looked on as a special Providence , since had it been High Water , it is concluded its strength would have been much greater , and its consequences more sad .
The Water that was near it seemed to fly hither and thither , as though 'twould fain make its escape from it : Yet I cannot find upon Enquiry that the Channel was at all wholly dry .
There was also some Wind , though not so violent as it had been before ; and when the Spout or Tromb began to move , it went with the Wind like a dark smoke , and the Wind being then W. N. W. its course was E. S. E. I have sent you a rude Draught of the manner of its passage after it began to move , according to the best Information I could get , for I was not at home when it happened .
The marks +++ show the River , the Letter O the Spout .
The Letter S Mr. Seaward 's House ( who was an Eye-witness of it ) which it gently touched with little or no Damage , blowing only off a few Tiles .
The Letter G the House of one Widow Goldsworthy , which it in part uncovered , took off almost all the Thatch of her Garden Wall , brake down a large Limb of a Plumb-Tree which stood at the higher end of her Garden , and which is more Remarkable than all the rest , it took off an AppleTree which was no way decayed , and between fifteen and sixteen Inches about , within two or three Inches from the Ground , almost as exactly as any Saw could have done it , and carried it , as I judge , ( for I did not measure it ) between Twenty and Thirty Foot from the place where it grew , and that not forward in the Path that it took , but almost directly backward , which makes me conclude that it had a double Motion ; the one external from the Wind strait forward , the other internal and circular , like the Fly of a Jack , which a Man may carry in his Hand , that will strike any thing either forward or backward as it meets with it .
G with a Bar under it shows you Mr. Green 's House , which was for the most part untiled , and backward in the Court there was a Linny that rested upon a Wall , which indeed it heaved a little out of its place , part of it hung on one side of the Wall , and part on the other ; but not broken in pieces , nor much injured , it having been since restored to its proper place .
The Letters WL show you two Houses more that were very much damaged in their coverings , which is the more Remarkable , for that Mr. Moxam 's House , marked M M , though it stood between the Injured Houses , and was much higher than either , had only two or three Quarries of Glass broken .
EEEEE shows the march of the Spout .
The Letter X the Planks that were blown some upright , some several Yards out of their place .
Da ship newly lanched , of about One Hundred Tuns , which was much shaken , but not hurt .
Ka Mast of near a Tun weight , thrown out of its place .
W the Anchor that was torn out of the Ground , and carried seven or eight Foot with a Boat that was fastened to it , and blown up into the Air , that Boat was rent from the Head to the Keel .
B another new Boat blown about six Foot high , and turned upside down .
Aa Fisher Boat with one Man in it , which was near the place where the Spout was at first perceived , but through Mercy escaped .
LAa Lane that goes from the River , in which some Houses suffered Damage , which shows that the Spout was divided in its march .
It is no small Mercy that no Man , Woman , or Child received the least Injury in their Persons .
God shows us what he can do , happy we , if we understood his meaning , and comply with it ; but alas , Mercies and Judgments are soon forgotten .

