XIX .
" Researches on Vanadium."-Part II .
By HENRY E. RoscoE , B.A. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received June 16 .
Read June 17 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) On the Chlorides of Vanadium and Metallic Vanadium In the first part of these researches ( ' Bakerian Lecture , ' Phil. Trans. 1868 , pt .
i. ) the author stated that the chlorides of vanadium , and probably also the metal itself , could be prepared from the mononitride , the only compound of vanadium not containing oxygen then known .
The process for obtaining the mononitride described in the last communication was that adopted by Berzelius for preparing the substance which he conceived to be metal , but which in reality is mononitride .
This method consists in the action of ammonia on the oxitri-chloride ; but it cannot be 37 employed for the preparation of large quantities of nitride , owing to the violence of the action and consequent loss of material .
The author , seeking for a more economical method , found that if the ammonium metavanadate ( NH , V03 ) be heated for a sufficiently long time at a white heat in a current of dry ammonia , pure vanadium mononitride remains behind .
Analysis of a sample thus prepared gave 79'6 per cent. of vanadium and 20*2 per cent. of nitrogen , theory requiring 78'6 and 21'4 per cent. respectively .
The mononitride may likewise be directly prepared by igniting vanadium trioxide ( V 03O ) in a current of ammonia at a white heat in a platinum tube , and also by subjecting the dichloride to the same treatment .
The Chlorides of Vanadium.-Three chlorides of vanadium have been prepared , viz.:Vanadium tetrachloride ... .
VCI4 Vanadium trichloride ... . .
VC13 Vanadium dichloride ... . .
VC12 1 .
Vanadium Tetrachloride VClI , molec .
wt.=193'3 , V.D.=96-6 ( H= l).-This chloride is formed as a dark reddish brown volatile liquid , when metallic vanadium or the mononitride is burnt in excess of chlorine .
The first method adopted for the preparation of this chloride was to pass dry chlorine over the mononitride heated to redness ; the whole of the nitride volatilizes and a reddish-brown liquid comes over .
In one operation 44 grammes of the crude tetrachloride was thus prepared ; the liquid is purified by distillation first in a current of chlorine and then in a stream of carbonic acid gas .
On fractionating , the liquid was found to boil at 154 ?
C. ( corrected ) under 7601m of mercury .
The second method depends upon a fact already noticed in the preceding communication , that the oxitrichloride ( VO Cl3 ) , prepared , according to the directions of Berzelius , by passing dry chlorine over a mixture of the trioxide and charcoal , possesses a port-wine colour instead of the canary-yellow tint of the pure substance .
This dark colour is due to the formation of the tetrachloride of vanadium , and if the vapours of the oxitrichloride , together with excess of dry chlorine , be passed several times over a column of red-hot charcoal the whole of the oxygen of the oxichloride can be removed , and at last perfectly pure tetrachloride , boiling constantly at 154 ?
is obtained .
This reaction , it will be remembered , served first to demonstrate the existence of oxygen in the oxitrichloride .
In each distillation of the tetrachloride a peach-blossom-coloured solid residue remained in the bulbs ; this substance is vanadium trichloride , and it slowly burns away in excess of chlorine when heated , forming tetrachloride , The composition of the tetrachloride was established by six well-agreeing analyses , made from several different preparations .
The mean result is : Calculated .
Found .
V= 51-3 ... ... 26-54 ... . .
26-87 Cl4=142'0 ... . .
73'46 ... ... 7302 193-3 100-00 99-89 Owing to the facility with which the tetrachloride splits up into trichloride and chlorine a solid residue was left in the vapour-density bulb , 'and the density of the vapour ( at 219 ?
) was found by Dumas 's method to be 99-06 ( or 6-86 ) instead of 96-6 ( or 6-69 ) .
By volatilising the liquid in a small bulb , and allowing the vapours to pass into a large bulb already heated above the boiling-point of the liquid this deposition of trichloride was avoided , and the density was found to be 96-6 or 6-69 at 205 ?
, and 93'3 or 6 48 at 215 ?
, the last determination indicating that a partial decomposition into VC13 and Cl had occurred .
The specific gravity of the liquid tetrachloride at 0 ?
is 1-8584 ; it does not solidify at 18 ?
, nor does it at this or any higher temperature undergo change of properties on treatment with chlorine .
It not only undergoes decomposition on boiling , but at the ordinary atmospheric temperatures it splits up into VC1l and C1 .
Tubes in which the liquid tetrachloride had been sealed up have burst by the pressure of the evolved chlorine .
Thrown into water , the tetrachloride is at once decomposed , yielding a blue solution identical in colour with the liquid obtained by the action of sulphurous or sulphydric acids on vanadic acid in solution , and containing a vanadous salt , derived from the tetroxide V.20 , .
In order to prove that a vanadous salt is formed when the tetrachloride is thrown into water , the solution thus obtained was oxidized to vanadic acid by a standard permanganate solution .
The calculated percentage of oxygen thus needed according to the formula 2VC14 +0+ 420 V205 + 8HC1 is 4-14 ; the percentage of oxygen found by experiment was 4-11 .
The solution of the tetrachloride in water does not bleach ; but if the vapour be led into water a liquid is obtained which bleaches litmfus .
Vanadium tetrachloride acts violently on dry alcohol and ether , forming deepcoloured liquids .
The author is engaged upon the examination of this reaction .
Bromine and vanadium tetrachloride , sealed up and heated together , do not combine ; on the contrary , trichloride is deposited .
Hence it is clear that vanadium does not readily form a pentad compound with the chlorous elements .
2 .
Vanadium Trichloride.--VCl= 157'8 .
The trichloride is a solid body , crystallizing in splendid peach-blossom-coloured shining tables , closely resembling in appearance the crystal of chromium sesquichloride .
It is non-volatile in hydrogen , and , when heated in the air , it decomposes , glowing with absorption of oxygen , and forming the pentoxide .
Heated in hydrogen the trichloride first loses one atom of chlorine , forming the dichloride ( VCl2 ) , and afterwards , on exposure to a higher temperature , loses all its chlorine , leaving metallic vanadium as a grey lustrous powder .
The trichloride is extremely hygroscopic , deliquescing on exposure to air to a brown liquid .
The trichloride is best prepared by the quick decomposition of the tetrachloride at its boiling point , or by its slow decomposition at the ordinary temperature of the air .
The crystalline powder obtained by either of these methods only requires freeing from adhering tetrachloride by drying in carbon dioxide at 160 ?
in order to yield good analytical results .
Calculated .
Mean of 4 analyses .
V= 51-3 ... ... 32'5 ... ... 32-57 C1,3 =106-5 ... ... 67-5 ... ... 67-42 157-8 100-0 99-99 The trichloride thrown into water does not at once dissolve ; but , as soon as the crystals get moistened , a brown solution is formed , which beconies green on addition of a drop of hydrochloric acid , and contains a hypovanadic salt in solution .
This green tint is identical with that got by reducing a solution of vanadic acid in presence of magnesium .
According to the equation 2VCl3+ 02+3HO=20V0 , +6HC1 the solution of the trichloride requires 10-14 per cent. of oxygen to bring it up to vanadic acid , whilst analysis showed that 10-1 per cent. was necessary .
The specific gravity of the trichloride at 18 ?
is 3-00 .
3 .
Vanadium Dichloride VCI2= 122-3.-The dichloride is a solid crystallizing in fine bright apple-green micacious plates .
It is prepared by passing the vapour of vanadium tetrachloride mixed with hydrogen through a glass tube heated to dull redness .
If the heat be pushed further a blackish crystalline powder , consisting of a mixture of lower chloride and metal , is obtained .
The dichloride , ^when strongly heated in hydrogen , loses all its chlorine , leaving vanadium in the metallic state in grey crystalline grains .
Analysis gave : Calculated .
Mean of 2 analyses , VC1= 51-3 ... ... 41-95 ... ... 42-16 Cl = 71-0 ... ... 58-05 ... .
57-88 122-3 100-00 100-00 Vanadium dichloride is extremely hygroscopic ; when thrown into water a violet-coloured solution is formed , identical in tint with the liquid containing a hypovanadous salt obtained by reducing vanadic acid in solution in presence of zincor sodium-amalgam ; and like this latter liquid , the solution of dichloride in water bleaches strongly by reduction .
Oxidized by permanganate this liquid required 18-78 per cent. of oxygen ( on the dichloride taken ) to bring it up to vanadic acid , whereas the equation 2VCI , +O3+ 2H , O-V20+4HCl requires 19-6 per cent. The specific gravity of vanadium dichloride at 18 ?
is 3'23 .
Metallic Vanadium V=51-3.-Although from what we now know of the characters of vanadium it appeared unlikely that any compound containing oxygen would yield the metal by direct reduction , the author has repeated the experiments of other chemists on this subject , but without success .
There is no doubt that the metal cannot be obtained by any of the processes described in the books .
The only methods which promised possible results were:1 .
The reduction of a vanadium chloride ( free from oxygen ) in hydrogen gas , either with or without sodium .
2 .
The reduction of the mononitride at a white heat in hydrogen .
The first of these methods has proved to be successful , whilst the second does not appear to yield metal , inasmuch as the nitride exposed for 3 hours in a platinum tube to the action of hydrogen at a white heat , lost only 8 per cent. , whereas it must lose 21'4 per cent. on conversion into metal .
Notwithstanding the apparent simplicity of the method , the author has found it exceedingly difficult to obtain the metal perfectly free from oxygen .
This arises from the fact that whilst vanadium is quite stable at the ordinary temperature , it absorbs oxygen with the greatest avidity at a red heat , and that therefore every trace of air and moisture must be excluded during the reduction .
Another difficulty consists in the preparation of the solid chlorides in large quantity and free from oxygen or moisture , as also in the length of time needed to reduce these chlorides in hydogen , during which time unavoidable diffusion occurs and traces of oxygen enter the tube .
Again , the reduction can only be effected in platinum boats placed in a porcelain tube , as the metal acts violently on glass and porcelain , and tubes of platinum are porous at a red heat .
A description of the apparatus employed is then given , the main points being to guard against diffusion , and to introduce the powdered dichloride into the platinum boat in such a way that it shall not for an instant be exposed to moist air .
After all precautions are taken the tube is heated to redness , torrents of hydrochloric acid come off , and the evolution of this gas continues for from 40 to 80 hours , according to the quantity of dichloride taken .
After the evolution of any trace of hydrochloric acid has ceased to be perceptible , the tube is allowed to cool , and the boat is found to contain a light whitish grey-coloured powder , perfectly free from chlorine .
Metallic vanadium thus prepared examined under the microscope reflects light powerfully , and is seen to consist of a brilliant shining crystalline metallic mass possessing a bright silver-white lustre .
Vanadium does not oxidize or even tarnish in the air at the ordinary temperature ; nor does it absorb oxygen when heated in the air to 100 ? .
It does not decompose water even at 1000 , and may be moistened with water and dried in vacuo without gaining weight .
The metal is not fusible or volatile at a bright red heat in hydrogen ; the powdered metal thrown into a flame burns with the most brilliant scintillations .
Heated quickly in oxygen it burns vividly , forming the pentoxide ; but slowly ignited in air it first glows to form a brown oxide ( possibly V,2 ) , and then again ab sorbs oxygen and glows with formation of the black trioxide and blue tetroxide till it at last attains its maximum degree of oxidation .
The specific gravity of metallic vanadium at 15 ?
is 5'5 .
It is not soluble in either hot or cold hydrochloric acid ; strong sulphuric acid dissolves it on heating , giving a yellow solution ; hydrofluoric acid dissolves it slowly with evolution of hydrogen ; nitric acid of all strengths acts violently on the metal , evolving red nitrous fumes and yielding a blue solution ; fused with sodium hydroxide the metal dissolves with evolution of hydrogen , a vanadate being formed .
One sample yielded on oxidation a percentage increase of 77'94 , whereas that calculated from metal to pentoxide is 77'98 .
Another preparation gave a percentage increase of 70'8 , showing the presence of a small quantity of oxide .
On treatment in a current of chlorine metallic vanadium burns and forms the reddish black tetrachloride ; heated in a current of pure nitrogen the mononitride is formed .
The properties of the compounds of vanadium with silicon and platinum are then described in the memoir .

