]\gt ; PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. Note on Professor SYLVESTEB'S representation of the Motion of a free rigid that of a material Ellipsoid whose centre is fixed , and which rolls on a rough Plane .
By the Rev. N. M. FERRERS , Fellow and Tutor of Gonville and Caius College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. SYLVESTER , F.R.S. Received May 29 , \mdash ; Read June 17 , 1869 .
a paper published in the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1866 , Professor SYLVESTER has given an important extension of POINSOT'S representation of the motion of a freely rotating rigid body , by means of the momental ellipsoid .
He has proved that if a aterial ellipsoid , similar in form to the momental ellipsoid , and so constitut.ed that its principal moments of inertia , , are connected with its semiaxes by the relation , be made to loll in contact with a perfectl plane , the motion of this material ellipsoid will be precisely the same as that of the momental ellipsoid of the rigid body ; the rough plane taking the place of the geometrical fixed plane , in contact with which the momental ellipsoid is supposed to roll .
He has also investigated expressions for the pressure and friction between the ellipsoid and the plane , in terms of the angular velocity of the ellipsoid , and of the length of its axes , and the distance of the centre from the rough plane .
In independently the values of these forces , I have been led to a somewhat different treatment of the same problem , in the course of which some theorems have presented themselves which may be not without interest .
The notation which I adopt is as follows : represent the component ular velocities of the ellipsoid about its principal axes , which , as proved by Professor SYLESTER , are connected by the following equations:\mdash ; .
( 1 ) The distance from the centre of the ellipsoid to the rough plane is denoted by , and the component angular velocity of the ellipsoid about the normal to the plane , which is known to be constant , by .
The component angular velocity about the prolfDCCCLXX .
jection of the instantaneous axis on the rough plane is denoted by , and the whole angular velocity by , so that we have ( 2 ) We have also the following relations:\mdash ; , ( 3 ) And the principal moments of inertia are represented by which will be found , when substituted for , to satisfy the relation already stated .
In the case of a uniform ellipsoid , we have equations ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , and the invariability of , may also be proved as follows .
If be the coordinates of the point of contact , referred to the principal axes , we have Also whence 3Iultiply these equations by , and add , then or and is therefore constant .
Hence the direction-cosines of the perpendicular to the fixed plane are ' and since this line is fixed , 0 Similarly \mdash ; February 1870 .
] REPBBBNTATION 'OF TIffl MOTION OF A FREE RIGID BODY .
[ We shall first investigate the value of , the component angular momentum of the ellipsoid about the normal to the rough plane .
The cosines of the inclinations of this line to the principal axes of the ellipsoid are respectively ; and the component angular momenta about the principal axes are respectively .
Hence Now , by multiplying ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) by , .
respectively , and adding , we see that Hence .
( 5 ) We shall next investigate a relation between the angular momentum of the ellipsoid about any axis through its centre , and that , about the same axis , of a particle of mass , situated at the point of contact of the ellipsoid and rough plane , and moving as that point moves .
If be the direction-cosines of the axis referred to the principal axes , the component angular momentum of the body about it is or .
( 6 ) Again , the coordinates of the point of contact are respectively .
Hence its component velocities , parallel to the axes , are ; and its component angular momenta are therefore .
Now , by equations ( 1 ) , we see that by ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) .
The other component angular momenta being similarly transformed , we obtain , for the component angular momentum about the assigned axis , or .
( 7 ) Comparing this lvith the expression already obtained for the angular momentum of the body , we see that the two expressions are equal if .
if the axis be parallel to the rough plane ; and generally that the angular momentum of the ellipsoid , that of the particle , , which , if the axis be perpendicular to the rough plane , becomes ( G\mdash ; H ) , a constant.\mdash ; February 1870 ] .
Now , let denote the angular momentum of the ellipsoid about an axis through its centre , parallel to the rough plane , and at right angles to the instantaneous axis , and about an through its centre parallel to the rough plane and at right angles to this lnst .
The radius vector of the point of contact measured from the foot of the perpendicular on the rough plane is ; and hence if denote the angular velocity of this radius vector in space , the radial and transversal component velocities of the point of contact will be respectively .
To obtain the component angular momenta of the particle we have .
only to multiply the expressions by G. Hence , by the theorem just proved , .
( 8 ) We can now calculate the values of and , the pressure and fnction of the ellipsoid against the plane .
Taking moments about axes through the centre of the ellipsoid , lying in the rough plane and perpendicular to the direction of and respectively , REPJfflSENTATION OF TIIE MOTION OF A IIEE RIGID BODY .
each of these forces acts at an .
Hence by ( 7 ) ; .
( 9 ) It is worthy of notice that ; .
It may be desirable to replace these expressions by others in which shall be the only variable quantity , and which shall be free from differential coefficients .
This may be done as follows .
Writin , for shortness , , 7 in place of respectively , it may be proved , from equations ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , that ( 11 ) Again , it is proved by POINSOT , 'Sur la Rotation des Corps , ' p. 130 ( see also rteriy Journal of Pure and Applied Mathematics , vol. .
p. 74 ) , that a result which also follows from ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , remembering that the angular momentum of the particle about the nolmal to the rough plane is , differentiatin , 6 .
THB REV .
N. M. FERRERS ON PROFBSSOR SYLVESTER'S and ; . . . .
( 13 ) Again , .
( 14 ) [ The theorem contained in equations ( 5 ) and !
6 ) may pelhaps receive additional illustration by a comparison of the moments , about the principal axes , of the forces acting on the ellipsoid , and of those acting on the particle coinciding with the point of contact .
Since the component angular momenta of the ellipsoid about the principal axes are , it follows that the moment of the forces about one of the principal axes is 0 by ( 1 ) , or a result independent of H. Now , if we refer to equation ( 7 ) we shall see that the angular momenta the only di.ffer those of the ellipsoid by having written in place of ; consequently the moments of the forces , since they do not involve , must be the same for the particle and the ellipsoid .
It follows of course that the moments of the forces about any othel axis must be the same in both cases .
In the investigation of the value of , I have followed Professor SYLVESTER , in that the friction acts wholly in a direction perpendicular to the axis , The other component of the friction is necessarily indeterminate , since any force in the direction of the instantaneous axis may be with it , without altering its effect .
I have assumed this component of the friction to be zero ; if it be taken to be equal to an arbitrary force , the value of above investigated must be .
increased by .
The values of the moments of the forces are not , of course , affected by this supposition ; and if be so chosen that the pressure between the ellipsoid and the rough REPRESENTATION OF THE MOTION OF A FREE RIGID BODY .
plane may be zero , the forces on the body will become absolutely identical with those acting on the particle G , \mdash ; that is , we shall have , and , as before , \mdash ; February 1870 .
] It may be worth while to point out that the correlated and related bodies treated of in the latter part of Professor SYLVESTER'S paper include , as a particular case , POINSOT'S " " rolling and sliding cone .
the equation of that cone is which is asymptotic to the two surfaces:\mdash ; the former of which is confocal , the latter contrafocal , to the momental soid of the free body .
Hence , since the difference between the squales on corresponding xes is in this case , each of these hyperboloids will roll on the invariable plane through the fixed point , which will be asymptotic to it , while the plane itself rotates with uniform angular velocity Hence the asymptotic cone will move in exactly the same manner .

