118 Prof. M. Simpson .
Chemical Notes .
[ Feb. 21 , different degrees of hardness , at any rate , for the temperatures employed , magnetisation evidently produces the same kind of effect as with the soft iron .
The amount of the alteration in the case of soft iron must have reached at least as high as 10 per cent. , and may be greater .
The experiments which the writer has made on electrical conductivity have shown that this is also very appreciably altered by magnetism , at least 6 per cent. , even when the magnetisation was evidently not complete ( Proc. of R. S. , June 17 , 1875 ) , and has some reasons for believing that the amount of alteration for thermal and electrical conductivity will be found to be not very different .
He hopes , however , to thoroughly investigate the whole subject .
It should be mentioned here that Sir William Thomson ( Phil. Trans. , Feb..28,1856 , ) expresses a strong opinion that the experiments of Dr. Maggi on this subject , on which he says doubts have been thrown by others , would be found correct , basing his opinion on the results of his own experiments on the alteration of electrical conductivity by magnetism .
And , though the writer had some years ago made some attempts in the present direction ( unfortunately before perusing Sir William Thomson 's exceedingly valuable paper ) , he cannot conclude without expressing how greatly the suggestions there thrown out have assisted him in these and other experiments .
II .
" Chemical Notes .
" By Dr. Maxwell Simpson , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in Queen 's College , Cork .
Received January 2 , 1878 .
On the Direct Formation of the Ghloro-Bromides of the Olefines and other non-saturated Compounds .
Chloro-bromide of Ethylene ( C2H4ClBr ) .
The first step towards the direct formation of this and other chloro-bromides is , of course , the preparation of the solution of chloride of bromine .
This I endeavoured to prepare by a process analogous to that by which I had formed the chloride of iodine.* I found , however , that in passing the chlorine into the bromine and water , a larger quantity of the former is carried off in the form of vapour .
I continued the passage of the gas , nevertheless , till all the bromine was dissolved and the solution assumed a faint yellow tint .
On conducting olefiant gas into this , I obtained a very small quantity of an oily liquid , part of which boiled between 106 ' and 110 ' Cent. Altogether , it is by * " Ann ale n der Chemie , " cxxsyi , 141 .
1878 .
] Prof. M. Simpson .
Chemical Notes .
119 no means a productive progress .
I made an ineffectual effort to improve it by surrounding the vessel containing the bromine with ice .
This , however , only made matters worse , as it caused the formation of solid hydrate of chlorine and of bromine , which prevented the completion of the process .
After several unsuccessful experiments I at last hit upon the following process , which answers remarkably well:\#151 ; 500 grains of bromine are dissolved in 4 fluid ounces of a mixture of equal volumes of strong hypochloric acid and water .
This solution is introduced into a flask with a long neck , and surrounded with ice .
Washed chlorine is then passed into it with repeated agitation , till it ceases to be absorbed .
In this way not a trace of bromine is lost , nor are any solid hydrates formed during the passage of the gas .
On conducting olefiant gas into this solution , which should be surroupded with cold water and repeatedly agitated , I obtained a large quantity of an oily liquid , which I separated from the acid solution , washed with dilute potash , and distilled .
Almost the entire quantity passed over between 106 ' and 110 ' , most between 108 ' and 110 ' .
The following analysis proves that this was the body in question in a state of purity:\#151 ; C2H4ClBr .
Theory .
Experiment .
Carbon . . . . . .
16*72 16*57 Hydrogen . . . .
2*78 3*01 This process yields nearly 80 per cent , of the theoretical quantity .
Chloro-bromide of propylene ( C8H6ClBr ) .
This compound is prepared in exactly the same manner as the ethylene compound .
The propylene gas was derived from iodide of allyl .
The process is very productive .
I obtained a large quantity of an oily liquid , boiling between 118 ' and 120 ' , which proved on analysis to be pure chloro-bromide of propylene .
Chlor-dibrom Allyl ( C3H6Br2Cl ) .
This compound may be readily prepared by the action of the solution of chloride of bromine upon bromide of allyl .
It is only necessary to leave these bodies in contact for two or three days at the temperature of the air , and to agitate them repeatedly .
The product distils between 197 ' and 199 ' .
It gave on analysis numbers agreeing perfectly with the above formula .
Brom-dichlor Allyl ( C3H6Cl2Br ) .
This body may also be formed by the action of chloride of bromine upon bromide of allyl .
To secure the production of this , and not the other allyl compound , it is necessary whilst agitating the reacting x\gt ; dies , to maintain them at a temperature somewhat below 100 Cent. 120 Prof. M. Simpson .
Chemical Notes .
[ Feb. 21 , On submitting the product to distillation , I found that the greater part passed over between 180 ' to 187 ' Cent. This proved on analysis to be pure brom-dichlor allyl .
On the action of Chloride of Acetyle Valer-aldehyde .
Many years ago I ascertained that acet-aldehyde enters into direct combination with chloride of acetyle , the compound C4H7O2CI being formed.* I now find that valer-aldehyde also combines directly with this body .
Their union is determined in the following manner :_ One molecule of valer-aldehyde is mixed with one of chloride of acetyle ( the evolution of heat was observed when they came into contact ) , and the mixture is subjected in a sealed tube to the temperature of 100 ' Cent , for about three hours .
At the expiration of this time the tube is opened , and its contents subjected to distillation .
.It commenced to distil at 115 ' Cent. , and between that temperature and 145 ' a little more than half of the fluid passed over .
The remainder refused to distil , although heated to 300 ' .
( A considerable quantity of hydrochloric acid gas was evolved during the distillation , and also when the sealed tube was opened .
) On re-distilling I found that the greater part of the distillate passed over between 118 and 128 ' Cent. This gave on analysis the following numbers , which agree pretty well with the formula CsHwO .
C-sHaOCl:\#151 ; Theory .
Experiment .
Carbon .
, . . . .
51-06 50*30 Hydrogen . . . .
7-90 815 This compound is a little lighter than water , its specific gravity being 0*987 at 17 ' Cent. It is gradually decomposed when brought into contact with water , hydrochloric acid , acetic acid , and valer-aldehyde being formed .
The compound , which would not distil , was neutral to test-paper .
I have not yet succeeded in rendering it sufficiently pure for analysis .
I think we may now safely conclude that all the aldehydes of the fatty series combine directly with chloride of acetyle , and that this reaction is characteristic of this class of compounds .
On a new Double Salt of Todide of Calcium and Iodide of Silver .
This salt is prepared by heating a concentrated solution of iodide of calcium and adding to it moist iodide of silver till it ceases to be dissolved .
The filtered solution crystallizes out on cooling in long white brilliant needles .
These were pressed between folds of filtering paper , dried at 100 Cent. , and analysed .
The following are the results of two analyses:\#151 ; CaI22(AgI)6(H20 ) .
* Comptes Hendus seance du 29 Novembre , 1858 .
1878 .
] On Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
Theory .
Agl Cal , H,0 . .
Experiment .
I. II .
53-89 52-63 5283 33-72 34-14 34*00 12-40 13-23 1317 This salt is completely dissociated by water , a few drops even being sufficient to separate the whole of the iodide of silver .
This reaction enabled me to analyse the salt with facility .
It was only necessary to add water to a known weight of the salt and filter .
The iodide of silver- may then be determined on the filter , and the calcium in the filtrate in the usual way by means of oxalate of ammonia .
The water I had to determine by difference , as the heat necessary to expel the water drove off at the same time some iodine from the iodide of calcium .
A known weight of the salt , dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid , did not lose weight when afterwards heated for some time at 100 ' Cent. It partially fuses at the temperature of boiling water .
Iodide of calcium forms several interesting double salts , which I am at present engaged in examining .
III .
" Further Note on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
" By Charles Tomlinson , F.R.S. Received January 7 , 1878 .
In the paper which was read on the 20th of December last , I stated that during some years past I had often recognised the existence of a force in the atmosphere , which seemed to exert a powerful influence on nuclei , in determining the sudden solidification of supersaturated saline solutions .
I had attempted to identify this force with evaporation , with desiccation , with crystallisation , with electricity , and with surface tension , and performed many experiments with this view , but without success .
I therefore determined to make daily observations on the action of oils , \amp ; c. , on these solutions , taking the typical one of sodic sulphate of a uniform strength ( 2 salt to 1 water ) , and to record the results from day to day , with especial reference to the state of the atmosphere .
These observations have now extended over three or four months with this general result , that with a southerly or westerly wind , the action of oils is to throw down the seven-atom salt at temperatures above that at which it is naturally formed .
The salt comes down on shaking the solution in the flask .
In dull and damp weather it falls in a powdery form ; in fine weather in crystals of the modified salt , and the powder previously formed in dull weather grows into well-shaped crystals .
Covered flasks with oil in contact with the solutions , have thus been kept for days and weeks together , and although repeatedly

