254 J. W. Dawson .
Erect Trees containing Reptilian [ Jan. 12 .
, January 12 , 1882 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Sir George William Wilshere Bramwell , and the Right Hon. Henry Fawcett , whose certificates had been suspended as required by the Statutes , were balloted for and elected Fellows of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Results of Recent Explorations of Erect Trees containing Reptilian Remains in the Coal Formation of Nova Scotia .
" By J. W. Dawson , O.M.G. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received October 11 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The explorations referred to were carried on chiefly in the beds at Coal Mine Point , South Joggins , Nova Scotia ; and their object was to make an exhaustive examination of the contents of erect trees found at that place and containing remains of Batrachians and other land animals .
A detailed section is given of the beds containing the erect trees in question , with lists of their fossil remains .
The most important part of the section is the following :\#151 ; Sandstone with erect Catamite and roots ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
6 ft. 6 in .
Argillaceous sandstone , Catamites , Stigmaria , and Atethopteris Ctichitica ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1 , , 6 , , Gray shale , with numerous fossil plants , and also Naiadites , Carbonia , and fish scales ... ... .
4 , , Black coaly shale , with similar fossils ... ... ... 1 " 1 " Coal , with impressions of Sigittaria bark ... ... 0 " 6 " On the surface of the coal stand many erect Sigiltarice , penetrating the beds above , and some of them nearly three feet in diameter at the base and nine feet in height .
In the lower part of many of these erect trees there is a deposit of earthy matter , blackened with carbon and vegetable remains , and richly stored with bones of small reptiles , land snails , and millipedes .
Detailed descriptions of the contents of these 1882 .
] Remains in the Coal Formation of Nova Scotia .
trees are given , and it is shown that on decay of the woody axis and inner bark they mnst have constituted open cylindrical cavities , in which small animals sheltered themselves , or into which they fell and remained imprisoned .
These natural traps must have remained open for some time on a subaerial surface .
In all twenty-five of these erect trees had been discovered and extracted , and the productive portions of them preserved and carefully examined .
Of these , fifteen had proved more or less productive of animal remains .
From one no less than twelve reptilian skeletons had been obtained .
In a few instances , not only the bones , but portions of cuticle , ornamented with horny scales and spines , had been preserved .
The Batrachians obtained were referred to twelve species in all .
Of these two were represented so imperfectly that they could not be definitely characterised .
The remaining ten were referable to the two family groups of Microsauria and Laby The Microsauria are characterised by somewhat narrow crania , smooth cranial bones , simple or non-plaited teeth , well-developed limbs and ribs , elongated biconcave vertebrae , bony scales and plates on the abdomen , and horny scales , often ornate , on the back and sides .
They show no traces of gills .
The species belonging to this group are referred to the genera Hylonomus , Smilerpeton , and Fritschia .
The characters of these genera and of the several species are given in detail and illustrated by drawings and photographs , including microscopic delineations of the teeth of all the species , with their internal structure and the microscopic structure of their bones , as well as representations of their cuticular ornamentation and armour .
The Labyrinthodonts are represented by only two species of drerpeton , which are also described and delineated .
About half of the reptilian species described are new , and those previously described from fragmentary remains are now more fully characterised , and their parts more minutely examined .
The invertebrate animals found are three species of land snails and five of myriapods , besides specimens supposed to represent new species of myriapods and insect larvae , not yet fully examined , and which have been placed in the hands of Dr. Scudder , of Cambridge , U.S. The memoir , consisting in great part of condensed descriptions of the facts observed , does not admit of much abridgment , and cannot be rendered fully intelligible without the accompanying plans , sections , and drawings .
It closes with the following general statement:\#151 ; " The negative result that , under the exceptionally favourable conditions presented by these erect trees , no remains of any animals of higher rank than the Microsauria and have been found deserves notice here .
It seems to indicate that no small animals of higher grade inhabited the forests of Nova Scotia at the period in question ; but this would not exclude the possibility of 256 Mr. T. Gray .
Electric Conductivity of Glass .
[ Jan. 12 , the existence of higher animals of a larger size than the hollow trees were capable of receiving .
Nor does it exclude the possibility of higher animals having lived contemporaneously in upland situations remote from the low flats to which our knowledge of the coal formation is for the most part confined .
It is to be observed also that as some of the reptilian animals are represented only by single specimens , there may have been still rarer forms , which may be disclosed should other productive trees be exposed by the gradual wasting of the cliff and reef .
" II .
" On the Variation of the Electric Conductivity of Glass with Temperature , Density , and Chemical Composition .
" By Thomas Gray , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. Communicated by Professor Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received December 28 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the results of the continuation of a series of experiments , some preliminary results of which were published in the Phil. Mag. for October , 1880 , are given .
The experiments were performed in the Physical Laboratory of the Imperial College of Engineering , Tokio , Japan .
In the preliminary experiments it was found that the conductivity of glass increased with the temperature , following a similar law to that found to hold for other highly insulating substances .
It was also found that the effect of successive heatings and coolings was to diminish the conductivity .
Further experiments on this subject show that although the diminution of conductivity here referred to sometimes occurs , it does not always occur , and does not seem to do so when the glass is newly manufactured .
Reference is made to preliminary experiments on the effect of time on the electric conductivity of glass , the results of which indicate an increase in conductivity with time .
The subject of the main part of the paper is an account of experiments on the relation between the electric conductivity of glass and its density and chemical composition .
A large number of specimens of lime glass were examined , but , as was to be expected in this case , no marked connexion between electrical quality and density could be observed .
It was found , however , on analysing a few specimens , that the composition of those which had a high conductivity differed considerably from that required to form an exact chemical compound , while those which had a low conductivity had a composition agreeing more or less closely with that required for a trisilicate of potash and lime , or a mixture of potash , lime , and soda-lime trisilicates .

