]\gt ; .
S76 .
] On rential Equations of the Ordcr .
" " Mcchanical Intogration of the Linear Differcntial Equations of the Second Ordcr with Variable Cocfficicnts By Prof. Sir LL. D. , .
Rcceived ) 28 , 1876 .
linenr differential equation of the second ordel .
, as is , be reduced to the form , ( 1 ) here P is any given fuuction of account of the great importance of this equation in mathemalicnl ysics ( vibrations of a non-uniform stretched cold , of a hanging chain , water in a callal of non-uniform breadth , of in a pipe -uniform sectional { , conduction of heat a of tlniform ction or conductivity , Laplnce 's diflerential equation of , \amp ; c. \amp ; c I oured to obtain a means of ffic.ili[ting its solution .
Methods of culation such as thoso used by Laplace himself ceedingly aluable , but are very ious , too laborious thess serions ject is to be attnined by calcul out results with minnte ccuracy .
ready of ining approximate results which shadl the character of the solutions , such as those so rorked out by , has seemed to me a .
Therefolc I milde attempts to pInn a .
hich crive b by successive pproximntiollS .
This is cleiLrly done no the instrument for tiug , founded 011 my brother 's , globe- , and -intcgrator , { described a } ious C 1unication to the Royai Society ; for it is eabily if \amp ; c. , here is any function , to begin with , exnmple ?
then 2 , , \amp ; c. are tiollS c } elging to that one of the )lutious of ( 1 ) hich anishes lvhen let my brolhcr 's tegralor be plied to \ldquo ; its lIsult fced , ils it }}-crc , contiJluously a second machine , hich shall find le integral of the produc.t of its result .
The sccond mac.hiue ' ' sur lcs icllcs 1ircs d sccond \ldquo ; urnal , vol. ) .
Cambriclgc licn , Th .
] 270 On Diferential of the Second Order .
will give out continuously the value of .
Uss again the same process with instead of , and then , and so on .
After thus altering , as it were , into by passing it through the machine , then into by a second passage through the machine , and so on , thing will , it lvere , become refined into a solution which will be more and nearly rigorously correct the oftener pass it through the machine .
If ?
not sensibly differ from ?
, then each is sensibly a solution .
So far I had gone and satisfied , feeling I had done what I wished to do for many years .
But then a pleasing surprise .
Compel agreement between the function fed into the double machine and that given out by it .
This is to be done by establishing a conmexion which shall cause the motion of the centre of the globe of the first integrator of the donble to be the same as that of the surface of the second 's cylinder .
The motion of each will thus be rily a solution of ( 1 ) .
Thus I was led to a conclusion which was quite xpected ; it seems to me very remarkable that the general differentid equation of second order with variable coefficients may be rigorously , , and in a sin process solved by a machine .
up the whole tter ab initio : here it is .
two of my brother 's disk- , globe- , and cylinder-integrators , and connect the fork which guides the motion the globe of each of the integrators , propel means , with the circumference of the other integrator 's cylinder .
Then move 's disk through an angle and simultaneously move the other integl'ators disk through an angle always given function of .
The circumference of the second integrator 's cylinder and the centre of the first integratol'S gloln each of them through which satisfies the diflerential equation ( 1 ) .
To prove this , let at any time / be the displacements of the centres of ths two globes from the axial lines of the disks ; and let be infinitesimal ngles turned through by the two disks .
The infinitesimal motiollS produced in the circumferences of two cylindel'S will bs and But the connexions pull the second first globes through spaoes respeotivcly equffi to those through by the cumferences of the first and second cylinderb .
Hence and eliminating which for islies he differential equation ( 1 ) .
On Diferential Equations of any Order .
The machine the complete integral of the equation with its constants .
For , any particular yalue of , give ralues .
[ That is to say mechanically ; disconnect the from the ylinders , shift the forks the globes ' centres are at distances rom the axinl lines , then connect , and move the machine .
] We this of ; Jhat is , secure values by the arbitrariness of two imtial positions of the globes .
VI .
" " Mechanical Integration of the general Lineal Differertial Equation of any Ordel with Variable Coefficients By Sir , LL. D. , .
Receiyed 1876 .
of my brother 's disk- , , and ators , and ]chaill of them thus:\mdash ; Comlect the cylinder of the so as to give motion to its to fork of the second .
connect the cylin of the second the fork of the third , and so on .
Let .
, up to , be the positions of the globes time .
Let \ldquo ; . . . .
be ilnultancously to the disks 1llotion of some of the disp a it is cnient to take dent ) .
The motions of the ders thus are , . . . . . . .
( 1 ) But , the conncxions -een and forks which the and fole and ( , . . .
( ; 3 ) Supl the momcll{ that the { hc , the of hc \ldquo ; one of used 10 llCC , osive ncgative , the itxial liuc of hc rot .
} on hich it

