" The following papers were then read , viz. " On the structure of the teeth , the vascularity of those organs , and their relation to bone .
" By John Tomes , Esq. Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , F.R.S. , Professor of Zoology in King 's College , London .
The microscopical examinations which the author has made of the structure of the teeth of man and various animals , lead him to the conclusion that their bony portions are formed of minute tubes , dis ?
posed in a radiated arrangement , in lines proceeding everywhere perpendicularly from the inner surface of the cavity containing the pulp .
These tubuli are surrounded by a transparent material , which cements them together into a solid and dense mass .
He finds , by applying the test of muriatic acid , that carbonate as well as phos ?
phate of lime enters into their composition .
In man , the tubuli , during their divergence from their origin at the surface of the central cavity , send off a number of very minute fibrils ; and on approaching the enamel or the granular substance , which cover respectively the crown and the fangs of the tooth , the tubuli divide into smaller ones , which freely anastomose with one another , and then either are continued into the enamel , or terminate at the boundary between these two substances .
Various modifications of this structure , ex ?
hibited in the teeth of different animals , in the class Mammalia and Fishes more particularly , are minutely described .
The granular substance appears to be composed of irregularly shaped osseous granules , imbedded in the same kind of transparent medium which ce ?
ments the tubuli together .
External to the granular portion , the author finds another substance entering into the formation of the simple tooth , and commencing where the enamel terminates ; and which he describes as beginning by a thin and transparent layer containing only a few dark fibres , which pass directly outwards ; but assuming , as it proceeds towards the apex of the fang , greater thickness and opacity , and being traversed by vessels .
External to the enamel , and in close connexion with it , in compound teeth , is situated the crusta petrosa , a substance very similar to the bony layer of the simple tooth .
It contains numerous corpuscles , and is traversed by numerous vessels entering it from without , and anastomosing freely with one another , but terminating in its substance .
These investigations of the structure of the different component parts of teeth , furnish abundant evidence of their vascu ?
larity and consequent vitality .

