490 On the Leaves of Calamites ( Calamocladus Section ) .
By H. Hamshaw Thomas , M.A. , Curator of the Botanical Museum , Cambridge .
( Communicated by A. C. Seward , F.R.S. Received December 2 , 1910 , \#151 ; Read February 2 , 1911 .
) ( Abstract .
) In spite of the great progress which has been made in the study of Coal Measure plants , the subject of leaf structure has been largely neglected .
The author is investigating the structure of the leaves of the principal groups of Palaeozoic plants with the view of determining their morphological and biological characters , and also of obtaining some knowledge of the conditions under which they grew .
The specimens of Calamite leaves described in this paper have been found chiefly in slides in existing collections , and most of the material originally came from the Halifax Hard Bed of the Lower Coal Measures .
Most of the leaves found , were very small , being only 1 to 3 mm. long and 0'8 to 1 mm. broad .
They are falcate in shape , and were borne on slender twigs in alternating whorls of four .
The structure of these slender twigs differs somewhat from that of the young Calamitean stems already described by Williamson and others , but it may be compared in some features with the structure of the young stems of some modern Equisetums .
The tissues of the small leaves show a concentric arrangement .
In the \#166 ; centre there is a vascular bundle consisting of four or five small tracheides surrounded by thin-walled elongated cells , The bundle is surrounded by a zone of cells with dense black contents , termed by the late Thomas Hick the melasmatic tissue , which is probably comparable with the bundle-sheath of the leaves of modern plants .
The cells of the palisade-like assimilating tissue abut on this , and have large spaces between them .
The epidermis is thinner on the concave side of the leaf , and the stomata are confined to this face .
They are characterised by transversely striated guard cells , similar to those seen in many species of modem Equisetums .
The leafy twigs just described seem to be identical with the impression-species Calamocladus charaeformis ( Sternb .
) .
Their structure seems to indicate that they grew in a pendulous manner .
Specimens have been obtained showing variations in structure from the normal type .
Four other types of leaf have been discovered , differing in size and in arrangement of tissues .
In all of these there is a very conspicuous strand of sclerenchymatous fibres running up the adaxial side of the leaf and The Action of the Venom o/ Eehis carinatus .
forming a large part of its apex .
These fibres become more conspicuous in the longer leaves .
In some types the thin-walled ( phloem ) tissue of the bundle is much reduced , or even absent .
The melasmatic tissue also varies considerably in amount .
Some of these longer leaves were probably identical with C. grandis ( Sternb .
) , others with C. ( Schloth .
) .
They are characterised by a more compact structure with smaller and fewer intercellular spaces .
The structure of the smaller leaves probably indicates that they grew in a moist situation , or where the atmosphere was humid .
The larger leaves are more xeromorphic in character .
The results obtained from this work indicate that the Calamites were in all probability truly microphyllous .
The Action of the Venom o/ Echis carinatus .
By Sir Thomas R. Fraser , M.D. , LL. D. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Materia Medica , University of Edinburgh ; and James A. Gunn , M.A. , M.D. , D.Sc .
, Assistant in the Materia Medica Department , University of Edinburgh .
( Received January 27 , \#151 ; Read March 16 , 1911 .
) ( From the Pharmacology Laboratory of the University of Edinburgh .
) ( Abstract .
) The venom used consisted of the liquid venom , which had been rapidly dried immediately after it had been taken from living serpents in India by the process of " milking .
" Its minimum lethal dose , by subcutaneous injection , per kilogramme , was found to be for the frog , 0 009 gramme ; for the rabbit , 0'0009 grm. ; for the guinea-pig , O'OOl grm. ; for the rat , 0'00075 grm. ; for the cat , 0-008 grm. ; for the pigeon , 0-004 grm. ; and , by intramuscular injection , for the pigeon , O'OOl grm. In the case of all these animals , the cardinal symptoms , in order of time and of prominence , are haemorrhages occurring locally and distally , feebleness of the circulation and anaemia , arrest of respiration and loss of reflex excitability , and arrest of the heart in diastole .
No evidence could be obtained , either in cold- or warm-blooded animals , of a direct action of the venom on the brain or spinal cord .
At a time when there occurs definite impairment of the functions of the central nervous system , this can adequately be accounted for by the coincident or

