IV .
" Notice of Recent Scientific Researches carried on abroad .
" By the FOREIGN SECRETARY .
During the last Session of the Royal Society the Council passed a Resolution , -That it should be one of the duties of the Foreign Secretary to furnish the Society , from time to time , with early notice of researches of special importance carried on abroad ; such notice to be drawn up in the form of a short communication to the Society , to be read as early as practicable at an Evening Meeting of the Society , and published in the 'Proceedings .
' In the time which has since elapsed I have been only partially successful in obtaining that cooperation without which it is scarcely possible to comply with the instructions of the Council .
The regular and frequent appearance of the ' Comptes Rendus , ' and of the Abbe Moigno 's 'Cosmos , ' containing , as they do , the earliest notices of important memoirs , and the publication in full of many memoirs in the ' Annals de Chimie , ' render superfluous any mention of the labours of men of science in France .
So also , very striking discoveries , such for instance as the qualitative analysis by the lines of the spectrum , and the consequent discovery of a new element , due to Professors Bunsen and Kirchhoff , published in the English Journals almost as soon as they are made , may be passed over in silence .
For most of the following notices I am indebted to the kindness of our Foreign Member , M. Haidinger , of Vienna .
On receiving a letter containing the substance of the Resolution of the Council , he sent a printed circular , dated Sept. 1 , 1860 , to various active labourers in the field of science , inviting them to send a short account of the re .
searches in which they themselves or others had been engaged , to the Foreign Secretary of the Royal Society .
This appeal was responded to by the arrival of a number of letters containing a large amount of information which would otherwise have been most difficult to obtain .
The ' Denkschriften ' and ' Sitzungsberichte ' of the Academy of Sciences of Vienna are peculiarly rich in memoirs on Mineralogy , Crystallography , and on the optical and physical properties of Crystals , by MM .
Haidinger , Zippe , Schabus , v. Zepharovich , Kengott , Hochstetter , Carl v. Hauer , v. Lang , Murmann , Rotter , Weiss , Handl , Dauber , Schrauf , Leydolt , Grailich , of whom the last two have been lately cut off by an early death .
Many of these papers date back too far to be included in the present notice .
Some of the most important of the recent communications on these subjects are by M. Haidinger , on Meteorites , on the form and optical characters of H6rnesite , a new mineral species belonging to the isomorphous group containing Vivianite , and several-other hydrous arseniates and phosphates : by M. v. Zepharovich , who has also contributed many papers on Mineralogy , Geology , and Physical Geography , to the 'Jahrbiicher der k. k. geologischen Reichsanstalt ' of Vienna , on a new determination of the forms and angles of epidote , and some laboratory crystals not previously measured : by M. Carl v. Ilauer , on Crystallogenesis , and on compounds of selenium and vanadium : by M. Dauber , on the determination of crystallographic constants , and the limits of their errors : by M. Schrauf , on the form of Smithsonite ; and by M. Tschermak , on the secondary formation of minerals in the Greenstone of Neutitschein .
Major v. Sonklar is the author of a paper on the diminution of temperature at different heights , in different seasons of the year , in the Eastern Alps .
M. Kreil has determined the magnetic constants and geographical position of numerous points in the South-east of Europe , and some places on the coast of Asia .
M. Karl Friesach has continued the publication of his Magnetic and Astronomical Observations in North and South America .
M. Simon Spitzer has written a series of papers on the integration of linear differential equations .
MM .
Helmholtz and v. Piotrowski are the authors of a memoir on the friction of incompressible fluids .
M. Karl Fritsch has written several memoirs on Meteorology .
One of these is on the disturbances of the daily range of the most important meteorological elements on days in which thunder-storms occur .
The daily range of atmospheric pressure , temperature , press .
ur of vapour contained in the atmosphere , from hour to hour , in different months , are known already for various stations .
These , however , hold only for a mean condition of the atmosphere .
In days on which thunder-storms occur , the range of each of the meteorological elements exhibits a peculiar character impressed upon it in the course of the preceding night and morning ; and , as thunderstorms usually occur in the afternoon and evening , the approach of a thunder-storm , or of the gale of wind by which it is not unfrequently accompanied , may in most cases be predicted .
Another gives an account of the pheenological observations made in the Austrian Empire in the course of the year 1858 .
This contains a comparison of the times of blossoming of seventy-three species of plants , at fifty-nine different stations , with the times of blossoming of the same plants at Vienna .
On an average of the whole year , vegetation is earliest at Villa Carlotta on the lake of Como , 120 toises above the level of the sea , being fourteen days in advance of Vienna ; and latest at Gurgl in the Oetzthal , 966 toises above the sea-level , being thirty-one days behind Vienna .
This difference ex. hibits a regular diminution in each month from the spring to the summer .
The supplement to the eleventh volume of the ' Jahrbiicher der k. k. Central-Anstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnetismus , ' contains a comparison by M. Fritsch of those epochs in the life of plants and animals in different localities in the Austrian empire , which admit of being accurately determined for the year 1857 .
These observations include a record of definite phases of vegetable and animal life under the most various local circumstances , and extend as far as possible over the whole flora and fauna .
They have been now continued for eight years .
It is proposed to continue them till they embrace a period of ten years , when M. Fritsch hopes to deduce from them many important results , a task which will probably occupy him for several years .
A memoir on the law of the influence of temperature on the epochs of definite phases of the development of plants , taking into account the effects of insolation and moisture , in the 'Denkschriften ' of the Vienna Academy of Sciences , vol. xv .
, is intended as a precursor to this undertaking .
Professor Zantedeschi is the author of nine papers on Acoustics , published in the 'Sitzungsberichte ' of the Academy of Vienna .
1 .
On the doctrine of the third sound , or on the coincidence of sonorous vibrations , with a remark on the analogy presented by the vibrations which constitute the light of the solar spectrum .
The experiments of the author show that the number of vibrations in a given time , of the third sound , is always the difference of the numbers of vibrations of the two given sounds , and is not always the greatest common measure of the two given sounds , as has been asserted by some writers .
2 .
On the correspondence which sonorous bodies manifest in the resonance of many sounds in one .
3 .
On the unit of measure of musical sounds , on their limits , on the duration of the impression of the vibrations on the acoustic nerve of man , and on the increase of pitch of the fundamental note in tuning-forks of steel due to a spontaneous molecular change .
The principal object of the author is the determination of a fixed note , to which , as to an invariable unit of measure , the notes of different instruments may be referred .
The number of vibrations per second which produces the note C is from 272 to 276 at St. Petersburg ; 271 in Naples ; 2 ; 8 in Milan , 266 in Venice , 268 in Vienna .
According to M. Lissajous , in Paris , in 1856 , the number of vibrations of the note A was 898 ; while according to Sauveur in 1715 it was 810 .
This elevation is by some supposed to be due to improvements made in the construction of musical instruments .
Professor Zantedeschi attributes it to a molecular change which is gradually developed in the steel of which tuning-forks are made .
In order to eliminate this source of error , he proposes to substitute for the tuning-fork a pipe such as is used at the present time by tuners of instruments in the South of Italy .
He compared a number of tuning-forks and pitch-pipes known to be more than fifty years old , and found that the former had become higher , though unequally , when compared with the latter .
In order to secure the fixity of a note , he considers that it ought to be compared with the siren of Cagnard de la Tour , or with the toothed wheel of Savart .
By these means , especially when combined with improvements suggested by M. Zantedeschi , the stability of the note , or the amount of its error , may at any time be ascertained .
In France the A has been lowered from 898 to 870 vibrations .
4 .
On the limits of the sounds produced by free reeds , and on their harmonics , considered in relation to the law of Bernoulli .
5 .
On the fundamental law of the harmonics of a musical string , on the vibratory motion from which they are derived , and on the interpolation of harmonics between the notes of instruments sounded by means of a bow and those of the human voice .
6 .
On the separation of waves corresponding to harmonics , and on the coexistence of several vibratory waves in the same aerial column .
7 .
On the lengths of the aerial waves , and on their velocity in pipes , and on the influence which various circumstances exert on the sound produced .
8 .
An experimental examination of the method commonly followed in the determination of the nodes and ventral segments of columns of air vibrating in tubes .
9 .
On the fundamental laws of vibrating rods , and of the oscillation of air in tubes .
Professor Zantedeschi is in possession of a series of meteorological observations embracing a very long period , by means of which he hopes to be able to establish the constants of the climate of Italy .
M. Schaub , Director of the Observatory , and Superintendent of the Hydrographical Institution at Trieste , is occupied with the discussion of tide observations made during one whole year , beginning October 16 , 1859 , with a self-registering gauge , in the harbour of Trieste .
The results of the observations for more than two months have appeared in the 'Mittheilungen ' of the Geographical Society of Vienna .
The height of high water above low water was found to be 87 centimetres at spring tides , and 24 centimetres at neap tides .
Professor Lorenz , of Fiume , the author of various Essays on Geology , Physical Geography , and Natural History of various districts , in the Salzkammer Gut and on the Croatian coast of the Adriatic , which date back too far to fall within the scope of the present notice , has recently published the following memoirs:-Geological Survey of the Liburnian Karst and the adjacent Quarnero islands , giving a sketch of these Adriatic coast declivities and islands , the geological constitution of which had never before been examined with accuracy ( Jahrbuch der k. k. geologischen Reichs-Anstalt , Band X. ) .
An inquiry into the sources of the springs of the Liburnian Karst and adjacent Quarnero islands , some of which are remarkable for their excessively low and constant temperature ( Mittheilungen der k. k. geographischen Gesellschaft in Wien , B. III .
) .
On the forest-trees of the Liburnian Karst range .
A Report on the question whether trees and other growths could be produced on the declivities of the Croatian Adriatic coast , being the result of physical and botanical researches continued for two years , accompanied by a vegeto-geographical map of that country .
This Report is now going through the press , and will appear in the 'Mittheilungen ' of the Geographical Society of Vienna .
A Report on the flora of the same country is also in progress .
During the last five years Professor Lorenz has been engaged in researches on the Liburnian ( Croato-Adriatic ) coasts , and also in the hitherto unexplored waters of the Quarnero ( or Gulf of Fiume ) , his object being to inquire into the distribution of submarine algae and animals , on the same principles that had guided the founders of this still youthful department of science , such as CErsted in the Baltic , Forbes in the ZEg , ean and British seas , Sars , Arbj6rnsen , Loven in the Scandinavian sea .
Professor Lorenz considers that he has made improvements in the method of carrying on researches of this kind .
The physical hydrography of the submarine stations in the Quarnero , the geology and quality of the sea-bottom , temperature of the air , density and chemical composition of the sea-water , the currents , tides , transparence , colour , luminosity , mean temperature at different depths , &amp;c. , were methodically observed during four years .
Algse and animals of every kind were arranged according to their vertical and horizontal distribution , and their natural groups and paragenesis were deduced from the above-mentioned physico-marine observations .
A bathygraphical map , and numerous tables and figures , accompany the work , which in a few weeks will be ready for the press .
A memoir on new starfishes and polyps collected and described by the author , intended as a precursor to the larger work , appeared in the 39th volume of the ' Sitzungsberichte ' of the Vienna Academy .
I may add , that Professor Lorenz expresses his readiness to procure for the Royal Society any information that may be desired respecting the natural history of the Adriatic coast , adjacent to Fiume , a service which he appears peculiarly well qualified to render by the nature of his previous researches , as well as by his position as Professor of Natural History at Trieste .
I am indebted to Dr. Namias , the Secretary of the I. R. Istituto Veneto , for the titles of memoirs that will appear in the 5th volume of the 'Atti ' of that Society .
Among these are a memoir on the purple of the Ancients , and the means used in extracting it from the Murex , by Professor Bizio .
On some methods of applying electricity in the cure of disease , by Dr. Namias , who is also author of a memoir on electricity , in which he has established some new principles , and for which a prize was awarded by the Istituto Milano .
A memoir on the hypothesis of the metamorphosis of power , and on the conservation of force , by Professor Turazza , is to appear in vol. ix .
of the 'Raocolta , ' in 4to .
A general theorem on the teeth of bevel-wheels , by Professor Minich .
On instantaneous movement about a point , by Professor Bellavitis .
Comparative examination of some new species of Lichens , and on C/ 7rysothrix noli tangere , by Professor Massalongo .
1M .
Senoner has supplied information respecting works on the Natural Sciences , published by various Societies and individuals .
In Vienna , the 'k .
k. Zoologische-botanische Gesellschaft ' publishes valuable Transactions .
The 'Wiener entomologische Zeitschrift , ' conducted by Lederer and Miller , is a periodical of great merit .
The 'Oesterr .
botanische Zeitschrift , ' edited by Dr. Skofitz , contains many excellent papers on the Flora of the Austrian Empire .
The Geological Surveys by the ' Geogn .
montanistischer Verein ' of Gratz , are carried on diligently under the direction of M. v. Zollikofer .
Yearly volumes are published by the Museum in Linz , and by the Natural History Museun of Klagenfurt .
In Trieste , Professor Stoffich is a most assiduous collector of all the productions of the Adriatic .
Professor Danilo of Zara , and Professor Lanza of Spalatro , are at work upon a Fauna of the Adriatic .
The 'Werner Verein ' of Briinn has completed its Geological Surveys , and is proceeding to publish a geological map of Moravia and Silesia .
Natural History Museums , for the purpose of making Collections only , have been established in Bregenz , Trent , and Roveredo .
In Milan , the ' Societa Italiana di Scienze Naturali ' ( formerly the Geological Society ) publishes Transactions containing excellent papers in every department of the Natural Sciences .
The 'Atti ' of the Ateneo Italiano ( formerly the Accademia Medico-fisico-statistica ) contain also many articles on Natural History .
Stoppani 's Paleontology of Lombardy has reached its 14th number .
In Brescia , a beautiful work on fungi ( Miceti dell ' agro Bresciana ) , in which some new species have been established , has been very lately published by Antonio Venturi .
Professor Zeithammer of Pesth , author of papers in Petermann 's 'Mittheilungen ' on barometric measurements of heights , and the temperature of springs in the mountainous districts of Agram and Sambor , and on the mode of writing Sclavonian names of places in other languages , is about to publish in the same journal an essay on the natural grouping of the mountain ranges of Croatia , giving the elevations of the principal stations above the sea-level , to be followed by a separate work on the hypsometry of Sclavonia , and the military frontier .
With the view of exhibiting to the eye the ethnographic relations of separate tribes , he has just published in the ' Mittheilungen der k. k. geographischen Gesellschaft , ' ideas on the establishment of an Austrian Ethnographic Museum , which , in its principal features , would be equally applicable to any other country .
M. Steinheil has communicated to the Munich Academy of Sciences a simple method of adjusting an equatorial , by levelling the declination axis and the finder , and observing transits of stars with the declination axis horizontal .
I-e also exhibited an 'aplanatic ' object-glass , constructed on the principle indicated by Gauss in the first volume of Bohnenberger 's ' Zeitschrift fur Astronomy , ' having an aperture of 3 inches , and a focal length of 46 inches , French measure , which bears a power of from 300 to 360 extremely well .
The success of this object-glass has induced him to attempt the construction of a similar refractor with an aperture of 54 lines , and a focal length of only 48 inches .
Professor v. Kobell has announced to the same Academy the discovery of a new acid , dianic acid , in the mineral called tantalite , from Tammela , euxenite , aeschynite , and samarskite .

