73 The Relation of the Islets of Langerhans to the Pancreatic Acini under Various Conditions of Secretory Activity .
By John Homans , M.D. Boston .
( Communicated by Prof. E. H. Starling , F.R.S. Received October 1 , 1912 , \#151 ; Read January 23 , 1913 .
) ( From the Institute of Physiology , University College , London .
) [ Plates 2 and 3 .
] The object of this research* was to examine the relations of the islets of Langerhans to the pancreatic acini under the following conditions : first , at a time when the pancreatic tissue had been cut down to a very small amount , and second , when the gland had been exhausted by the action of secretin .
Under the first of these conditions it was expected that , as the removal of the entire pancreas was inconsistent with life , the removal of all but a little might lead to the hypertrophy of one or both elements in the part remaining , and throw some light on the possibility of a change of acinous to islet tissue or the reverse .
As a control to this procedure the pancreatic ducts were ligatured in one animal because the pancreatic acini rather than the islets are generally supposed to degenerate under these circumstances .
In the second series of experiments\#151 ; exhaustion of the gland by secretin\#151 ; it was intended to test the assumption by Dale , Vincent and Thompson , and others , that this proceeding induces a change of acinous into islet tissue .
It is hardly necessary for me to summarise the literature of this subject beyond repeating the most typical of the opposing views as to the functional and anatomical independence of the islets and their relation to acinous tissue .
Ranged on the side that the islets are more or less interchangeable with acini are a number of investigators , whose views , however , show important differences of detail .
Lewaschew ( 1886 ) holds that as a result of exhaustion acinous cells become converted into islet tissue and are capable of re-forming after rest .
Laguesse ( 1893-1911 ) maintains a somewhat similar view of " balanceinent " between the tissues , both on embryologic grounds and as a result of a long series of anatomical and experimental observations .
He considers , however , that the islets have an independent function .
Mankowski ( 1902 ) considers that the islet is the highest stage of acinous cell activity into which all such cells must go .
Dale ( 1904 ) sees , as a result of exhaustion , * The research was carried out with the aid of funds from the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital of Boston , U.S.A. G 2 Dr. J. Homans .
T Relation of the [ Oct. 1 , starvation , and duct ligation , the formation of new islets from acini .
Karakaschiff ( 1904-1906 ) , in a study of diabetes in man , finds that islets are without function except to form acini .
Herxheimer ( 1906 ) , in a similar study , concludes that islets are made from acini as a regenerative process .
Vincent and Thompson ( 1907 ) agree with Dale .
Fischer ( 1912 ) believes that the islet cells are able rapidly to change in function and appearance .
From the point of view of independence of function , the opinions of those who , following the lead of Mering and Minkowski , have endeavoured to discover which part of the pancreas is concerned with the sugar function are more in agreement .
Thus Schultze ( 1900 ) , Ssobolew ( 1902 ) , Sauerbeck ( 1904 ) , Tschassownikow ( 1905 ) , Tiberti ( 1909 ) , and Laguesse ( 1911 ) substantially agree that duct ligation does not produce diabetes .
Of these , all but Sauerbeck find that islet tissue is not destroyed in the process , and this conclusion , taken into consideration with the occasional finding by Opie ( 1901 ) and others of extensive islet disease in human diabetes , furnishes a strong argument in favour of the functional independence of this tissue .
Partial extirpations and pancreatic grafts by Laguesse ( 1902 ) , Kyrle ( 1908 ) , Tiberti and Franchetti ( 1909 ) have led to similar conclusions .
It must be admitted , however , that except for Ssobolew ( 1902 ) no one has been able to see as a result of stimulation with carbohydrates or phloridzin any changes in the islet cell indicating stages of functional activity [ Tiberti ( 1909 ) , Frugini and Stradiotti ( 1909 ) ] .
The supporters of the view that islets are unchangeable anatomic structures bring evidence from a number of sources .
Embryologic investigations by Pearce ( 1903 ) , Kiister ( 1904 ) , Helly ( 1905 ) , and Weichselbaum and Kyrle ( 1909 ) point to the origin of islets in early foetal life from primitive duct tissue and to their subsequent anatomic independence .
None of these investigators have been able to confirm the observations of Laguesse ( 1895-6 ) in regard to the disappearance of his " primary " islets and the substitution of " secondary " islets from acinous tissue .
Other investigators , by methods similar to those employed by Lewaschew , Minkowski and Dale , have come to conclusions diametrically opposite to theirs , a fact which suggests that the matter is , to a great extent , one of interpretation of the histologic appearances and of microscopic technique .
Thus Diamare ( 1899 ) finds that the islets contain two kinds of specific granules , and have an important sugar function .
Opie ( 1900 ) finds no increase in the number of islets after prolonged stimulation with pilocarpin .
Ssobolew ( 1902 ) holds the islets to be independent structurally as well as functionally .
He sees specific granules in the islet cell .
Dewitt ( 1906 ) finds a great-variation in the normal number of islets , but no increase or change resulting from starvation , feeding , and so on .
Lane ( 1907 ) shows that there are two 1912 .
] Islets of Langerhans to the Pancreatic Acini .
kinds of granules in the islet cell , differing chemically from each other and from the zymogen of the acini .
Finally , Bensley ( 1911 ) , in a most exhaustive study of the pancreas of the guinea-pig , has cleared up much of the doubt surrounding this subject .
By the use of vital stains he shows that the islets can be readily identified and counted , and that their number is not influenced by starvation , or any known method of stimulation .
He demonstrates , by the use of refined methods of fixation and by granule stains , that the islet cells have a structure distinct from that of the acinous cells , as well as from the duct and centroacinous cells with which they are likely to be confused , and among which they are frequently found .
He points out with justice the error in the common practice of identifying the islets by purely negative means , that is , by fixations and stains which do not bring out their distinguishing characters .
I have repeated some of his experiments with vital stains to satisfy myself of the fairness of his basis of identification , and this research would have little justification if it did not take a direction in which Bensley 's wTork has not carried him .
I have borrowed freely from his methods .
Technique .
The animals used in this research were dogs and guinea-pigs .
Ho especial selection of animals was made .
The experiments* include two exhaustions of the dog 's pancreas by secretin , five nearly complete extirpations and one duct ligation in the dog , and three pancreas exhaustions in the guinea-pig by purified secretin .
In addition , a number of injections of neutral red , methylene blue , and pyronin have been made in guinea-pigs , according to the methods of Bensley .
Fixing and Staining Methods.\#151 ; All specimens were removed immediately after the animals had been killed by bleeding under anaesthetics .
Pieces of pancreas not more than 2 mm. in thickness were placed at once in a number of fixative solutions and stained by various methods .
I. Acetic-osmic-bichromate ( Bensley ) .
Osmic acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
4 c.c. Potassium bichromate ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 15 c.c. Acetic acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2 drops .
Tissues fixed from 16 to 24 hours were washed in water and passed through alcohol to paraffin .
Ordinary tissues were cleared in benzol before paraffin , but pieces containing considerable scar tissue were passed instead through carbon bi-sulphide for greater ease * All experiments in which the animals have been allowed to recover from the anaesthetic\#151 ; five extirpations of the pancreas and one duct ligation in the dog\#151 ; were performed by Prof. E. H. Starling .
The exhaustion experiments were performed by the writer .
Dr. J. Homans .
T the [ Oct. 1 , of sectioning .
Sections cut less than 4 micra in thickness were stained by the acid-fuchsin-methyl-green method advocated and fully described by Bensley .
II .
Aqueous-chrome-sublimate ( Lane 's method for B cells ) .
Potassium bichromate ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
2*5 grm. Mercuric chloride ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 5 " Distilled water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 100 c.c. Very small pieces of tissue were fixed for 12-24 hours , washed in water and passed through alcohol ( including an iodine solution ) to paraffin .
These sections were stained for 24 hours in a 20-per-cent , solution of neutral gentian .
( For the details of preparing this solution see Lane 's or Bensley 's article .
) III .
Alcohol-chrome-sublimate ( Lane 's method for A cells ) .
Saturated alcoholic solution of mercuric chloride .
Potassium bichromate , 2*5 per cent. ( Equal parts .
) Tissues fixed in this solution for three to four hours with one change were washed in 50-per-cent , alcohol and passed rapidly through alcohols to paraffin .
Neutral gentian stain .
( As this method produces considerable shrinkage , and as in my hands it has proved quite uncertain , especially in the dog , I have made little use of it .
) IV .
Zenker 's fluid .
Tissues treated were stained with methylene blue and eosin or a similar combination .
This technique does away with the granules in the acini and islets as well , and may be used to show the " negative " of the granule stains .
Demonstration of Islets by Vital Staining Methods.\#151 ; I have repeated a number of Bensley 's experiments to satisfy myself that they are valuable in less skilled hands than his .
Only the neutral red , pyronin and methylene blue methods have been used .
A full description will be found in Bensley 's article .
Operative Procedure .
1 .
Partial Removal of the Pancreas.\#151 ; Under morphine and ether the pancreas , with the exception of about one-tenth at the duodenal end , was removed by blunt dissection ( Hedon 's method ) without ligation of blood vessels .
There was no bleeding .
The cut end of the remaining part , generally about 2 cm .
in length , was tied off with silk and was either transplanted with its blood supply outside the oblique muscles through a slit in the muscle or left in situ .
2 .
Ligation of the Ducts.\#151 ; LTnder morphine and ether the large duct was isolated for J cm .
and divided between two silk ligatures .
The pancreas in this region was separated from the duodenum , and omentum was inserted between the gland and the bowel .
To divide the smaller duct the tissues about the common bile duct were ligated on both sides and divided .
The gland was further separated from the bowel and omentum inserted between .
3 .
Exhaustion of the Dog 's Pancreas by Secretin.\#151 ; The animals were fed as usual the afternoon before the experiment .
They were anaesthetised by morphine and ether .
A secretin solution prepared from small intestines by the method of Bayliss and Starling was allowed to run into the external jugular vein by means of a cannula .
A cannula was tied into the pancreatic duct and the juice measured .
A piece of pancreas was isolated at the beginning of the experiment as a control of the exhaustion .
The stimulation was kept up until the pancreas failed to respond to the stimulation oi until the dog died .
1912 .
] Islets of Lctngerhansto the Pancreatic Acini , 4 .
Exhaustion of the Guinea-Pig 's Pancreas by Purified Secretin.\#151 ; In order to do away with the fatal depressing effect of secretin on the guinea-pig , purified secretin prepared by the method of Dale and Laidlaw* or Step was used .
The animal was anaesthetised by morphine and ether .
The method of introducing the secretin was the same as in the dog , but no cannula was tied into the pancreatic duct .
The degree of exhaustion was estimated by the examination of a piece of pancreas under the microscope .
The Normal Besting Pancreas of the Dog .
A detailed description of the pancreas is superfluous , but in connection with the accompanying illustration ( fig. 1 , Plate 2 ) a brief description of the different kind of cells is necessary as a base with which the experimental conditions produced may he compared .
The anilin-acid-fuchsin-methyl-green stain after osmic-chrome-acetic fixation has proved , in my hands , so much more successful than any other for the dog 's pancreas that it is upon this that most of my conclusions are based .
By this technique the normal charged acinous cell shows the characteristic zymogen granules stained bright red , the mitochondrial filaments the same colour , while the protoplasm of the cell takes a smooth greenish tint .
In association with many acini , the centroacinous cells can be distinguished by their clear uncoloured protoplasm and their oddly shaped red stained granular elements .
Some of these cells are indicated in the illustrations , and it is easily seen that they are , apart from the shape of their granules , strikingly like the clear granular cells of the islet .
The third cell which it is important to recognise is that of the ducts , and especially the finer ducts , or duct-like rows of cells , which are so often found associated with the islets .
These cells are usually oval in shape and often considerably compressed .
Their nucleus is central and their clear protoplasm dotted with a variable quantity of mitochondrial elements .
They have , like centroacinous cells , a distinct resemblance to islet cells and , as Bensley has pointed out , the latter are often found among them .
The islet cells may be easily divided into the two varieties which have been noted by many investigators , and to which Lane has given the name A and B cells accordingly as their granules are fixed respectively by alcoholic or watery solutions .
With the acid-fuchsin-methy 1-green stain the B cells , which form the vast majority , take a slate blue colour .
They are usually smaller than the A cells , which show red granules and a clear uncoloured protoplasm .
Both cells possess mitochondrial elements .
In the B cells which have not taken up sufficient of the methyl green to give them their characteristic blue colour , the mitochondrial filaments give the impression of red granules , but in the heavily stained cells they hardly show .
* I am much indebted to Dr. Dale for a supply of secretin prepared in this way .
Dr. J. Homans .
T Relation of the [ Oct. 1 , The nuclei of the various cells present less characteristic differences than do the granules .
Those of the acinous cells do not always show a bright red nucleolus .
On the other hand , the chromatin which they contain is often arranged like that in the islet nuclei .
Moreover , the islet nuclei may often contain what appears to be a typical nucleolus .
Accordingly , for purposes of differentiation , I have given little attention to the nuclei of the different cells .
I shall describe the appearance of islet tissue stained with neutral gentian in connection with pancreas exhaustion experiments in the guinea-pig .
In the dog , neutral gentian , though it stains beautifully the zymogen granules , has proved rather unsatisfactory for the islet granules .
In the guinea-pig , on the other hand , it gives the most striking pictures .
The Exhausted Pancreas of the Dog .
Of the two exhaustion experiments performed on the dog only one was completely successful .
In this the flow of pancreatic juice was very free , about 210 c.c. being secreted in the course of nine hours .
At the end of this time , though the flow had not ceased , the pancreas appeared rosy and translucent in contrast to the opaque appearance of the small segment tied off for comparison .
Examination of the discharged organ ( fig. 2 , Plate 2 ) shows the exhaustion to be fairly complete .
There is no evidence of any transition of acinous to islet tissue .
The acinous cells have for the most part lost their zymogen granules .
In consequence , the mitochondrial filaments appear more prominent than usual , but the protoplasm of the cells , though somewhat vacuolated , still takes the characteristic smooth green stain .
The islet shown in the figure is well charged with granules .
Whether the gathering of these granules along the capillaries is an effect of secretin stimulation I do not know , but .
as most of the islets do not present this appearance , and as it has been noted in the resting gland , I believe that it is accidental .
The most noteworthy change in the relation of the islet to the surrounding acinous tissue is that the exhaustion of the zymogen in the surrounding pancreas causes the islet to appear more sharply marked off than usual .
This is in strong contrast to preparations of the same organ fixed in Zenker 's fluid , and stained with eosin and toluidine blue , when the islets , being merely negatively stained , can be distinguished with some difficulty from the more exhausted portions of the acinous tissue .
Islets of Langerhans to the Pancreatic Acini .
The Exhausted Pancreas of the Guinea-Pig .
Three exhaustion experiments were performed on guinea-pigs , in only one of which could the animal be kept alive long enough to produce any obvious exhaustion of the gland .
This animal lived for six hours under stimulation by secretin purified by the method of Step .
The appearance of the gland treated by the acid-fuchsin-methyl-green method differs in no essential way from that of the dog , but under the neutral gentian stain the islets are marked off with a distinctness which I have not been able to obtain with a similar stain of the dog 's pancreas .
Tigs .
3 and 4 show an islet with the surrounding tissue in a charged gland and after exhaustion .
By this method the zymogen granules of the acinous cells are stained a deep lilac and the protoplasm a pale purple .
No mitochondrial elements are seen , and the centroacinous and duct cells likewise fail to stain .
In the islet of the charged gland the B cells are stained blue , the fine uniform granules alone taking the colour .
No mitochondrial elements are to be seen .
It therefore appears probable that the red rods and granules which appear among the slate blue granules of the B cells of the acid-fuchsin preparations are in reality mitochondrial in nature and not granular .
The A cells , or those which stain red with acid-fuchsin , fail here to take a positive stain .
They appear as faint yellowish to purple homogeneous masses with an indistinguishable outline .
In the exhausted gland the zymogen granules are greatly reduced .
Occasional small masses are present , especially close to the surface of a lobule , but about the islet shown in fig. 4 ( Plate 3 ) they have almost completely disappeared .
The protoplasm of the acinous cell , however , takes the same stain as in the charged organ , though it is often considerably vacuolated .
Among the acini a cell appears to which Bensley has called attention .
Several of these are shown in fig. 4 about the border of the islet , though they are no less common in other parts of the lobule .
This cell is filled with perfectly round , uniform , purple granules , considerably smaller than zymogen and distinctly larger than those of the islet .
I have found cells similar to these in specimens of discharged gland stained by acid-fuchsin .
Here the granular stain is uniformly red , but in addition the cell protoplasm also takes a diffuse red stain .
Such cells have a typical acinous arrangement , and rarely one is found with some of the diffuse green colour of the normal cell .
I have not been able to find such cells in the acid-fuchsin preparations of.resting glands , but have found one or two in neutral gentian stains of similar material .
They resemble those which Bensley describes as 80 Dr. J. Homans .
T Relation of the [ Oct. 1 , a .
result of a post-mortem change peculiar to the guinea-pig , and which he holds to be the same cells described as a transition form by Mankowski .
At first I was inclined to disagree with Bensley , and to consider the cell a result of exhaustion rather than of a 'post-mortem process , for while I find them abundant in exhausted glands , I have rarely seen one in a normal organ .
It seems to me , however , that as the circulation in animals subjected to secretin stimulation becomes in the last half-hour very poor , and as their temperature becomes considerably subnormal , the change may he partly ante-mortem degeneration .
Bensley 's evidence that such cells can be produced as a result of post-mortem changes is very complete .
That they are produced by exhaustion is suggested by my preparations , but not proven .
Moreover , they have not been noted in the dog .
In any case they furnish the only suggestion of a possible transition of acinous to islet cells which I have been able to find in the exhausted pancreas of the guinea-pig .
Demonstration of Islets and Duds by Vital Stains .
I have made , perhaps , half-a-dozen injections of neutral red , pyronin , and methylene blue , according to Bensley 's method , and I can only say here that the results fully bear out Bensley 's contention that the islets have a distinct staining reaction of their own .
In the best preparations , the individual cells can be distinguished , and , when the neutral red injection is combined with pyronin , the relation of the islets to the ducts is quite obvious .
Though I have only made one attempt to demonstrate the islets in the exhausted gland , the clearness of outline , size , and number of the islets was quite the same as in the : resting gland .
For a full account of this technique and its results in exhaustion and starvation , the reader is referred to Bensley 's work .
Nearly Complete Removal of the Pancreas the Dog .
The choice of the duodenal end of the pancreas as the part to be studied was made with the full knowledge that the number of islets left would be comparatively small .
It was thought , however , that if an amount of this pancreatic tissue could be left , such as would barely support life , a better idea of the relation between acinous and islet tissue could be gained than by the use of the splenic end , in which the islets are known to be much more abundant .
Although these experiments were planned primarily for this purpose , the importance of the relation of the histological changes to the carbohydrate metabolism made it necessary to observe the general condition of the animals , and especially the amount of sugar appearing in the urine .
Accordingly , a brief protocol of each experiment is given , with a summary ol the histological findings at its termination .
The observations are arranged 1912 .
] Islets of Langerhansto the Pancreatic Acini .
according to the number of days the animals were allowed to survive operation .
Experiment 1.\#151 ; Young female .
Weight , 5*1 kgrm .
Bather fat .
Morphine , ether .
Bemoval of the pancreas except for a segment at the duodenal end , measuring 1*5 x 1*5 cm .
, which is tied off from the intestine and the rest of the organ with silk .
With its blood supply intact it is transplanted through a slit in the oblique muscles to a space outside t}ie muscles .
Good recovery from operation , but the animal , though it does not look ill , remains quiet for the next three days .
Urine for the second 24 hours following operation 250 c.c. It contains 3 per cent , sugar .
On the morning of the fourth day the animal looks ill , has lost fat , and a fluctuating mass is felt at the site of the graft .
Killed by bleeding under ether .
Examination shows a thin , yellowish fluid surrounding the graft , which appears white and opaque .
No pancreatic remains found in the abdomen .
Microscopic Examination.\#151 ; Superficial infection of the graft .
Acinous cells highly charged with zymogen .
Apparent slight increase of duct tissue .
The islets appear normal in size and shape .
The B cells are for the most part small , and very few of the typical slate blue granules are seen .
The A cells stand out darkly stained and prominent .
Experiment 2.\#151 ; Adult female .
Weight , 8 kgrm .
Good condition .
Morphine , ether .
Bemoval of the pancreas except for a piece 2x2 cm .
tied off with silk at the duodenal end .
Transplanted with its blood supply outside the oblique muscles .
Considerable handling of the transplant .
Good recovery from ether .
Twelve hours ' specimen of urine on night of third day contained 3*35 per cent , of sugar .
7th day.\#151 ; Animal thin but seems lively and eats and drinks well .
Urine for 17 hours ( 550 c.c. ) contains 3*95 per cent , of sugar .
8th day.\#151 ; Wound puffy and graft swollen .
10th day.\#151 ; Site of graft looks better .
Animal lively .
Sugar , 1*9 per cent , ( single specimen ) .
13th day.\#151 ; 24 hours ' urine contains 4*5 per cent , of sugar .
The graft looks normal , and the animal seems lively and well .
16th day.\#151 ; Killed by bleeding under ether .
Examination shows that the site of the graft is clean .
A moderate amount of scar tissue surrounds the graft , which appears about the same extent as at operation , but considerably thicker ; white , opaque , and very firm on section .
No pancreatic remains found in abdomen .
Microscopic Examination.\#151 ; The acinous cells are highly charged with zymogen .
They appear slightly shrunken , though there is no evident destruction .
There is a great relative , and probably absolute , increase of small ducts and centroacinous cells .
No mitotic figures are found .
The islets appear considerably altered .
The B cells stain poorly , showing few slate blue granules .
They contain some red and some uncoloured granular material , and are generally shrunken .
Experiment 3.\#151 ; Adult female .
Weight , 9*6 kgrm .
Good condition .
Morphine , ether .
Bemoval of the pancreas except for a piece 2x2 cm .
tied off with silk at duodenal end and left in place with blood supply intact .
Slow recovery from ether , and animal seems very quiet on the day following .
3rd day.\#151 ; Animal lively and well .
/ th day .
Animal eats and drinks well .
Urine contains no sugar .
10th day.\#151 ; Weight , 9 kgrm .
Animal seems well .
20th day.\#151 ; Weight , 8*75 kgrm .
Animal seems well .
Overnight urine contains 2 per cent , sugar ( estimated ) .
26th day.\#151 ; Animal in good condition .
Killed by bleeding under ether .
Dr. J. Homans .
T Relation of the [ Oct. 1 , Examination.\#151 ; There is a little clear fluid about one end of the graft , which is thick white , and opaque .
The other end , or about one-half of the original fragment , is thin , grey , and scar-like , but shows the normal markings .
No other pancreatic remains found in the abdomen .
Microscopic Examination.\#151 ; Sections from the swollen opaque end differ in no essential particular from those of Experiment 2 ( 16-day graft ) except that the islets are rather better preserved .
The B cells are very few in number , which takes away from the islet its characteristic appearance ( fig. 6 ) , but it is easy to identify .
Sections from the atrophied end present appearances shown in fig. 5 .
The acinous cells still contain zymogen granules and stain characteristically , but they are shrunken and gathered into small compressed groups .
There is an obvious relative increase of duct and centro-acinous tissue .
A few islets can be found , but they take almost none of the bluish stain characteristic of B cells , and as they thus resemble duct cells ( compare figs. 5 and 6 ) they are not easy to identify .
They are not , however , increased in size , nor is there any evidence of a change of acini into islet tissue .
My impression is that the islets are undergoing destruction by the scar tissue .
Experiment 4.\#151 ; Adult female .
Weight , 6 kgrm .
Rather thin .
Morphine , ether .
Duodenal end of gland tied off as usual and rest of pancreas removed .
Transplantation of fragment 2x2 cm .
with its blood supply intact outside the oblique muscles .
Good recovery from ether .
Although it has lost some weight the animal remains lively and well until just before it is killed .
8th day.\#151 ; Urine contains no sugar .
Graft plainly felt through skin , which moves freely over it .
29th day.\#151 ; Animal seems well .
Overnight urine ( 250 c.c. ) contains 2-7 per cent , sugar .
33rd day.\#151 ; The animal appears ill and has not eaten during the last 24 hours .
Killed by bleeding under ether .
Examination.\#151 ; Peritonitis following perforation from faecal impaction ( undigested meat ) .
The graft is shrunken , grey , and scar-like , perhaps two-thirds its original size .
A firm elastic cyst is embedded in it .
The lobulation is still evident .
Microscopic Examination.\#151 ; The whole graft is invaded by scar tissue .
The acini are broken up into small groups .
The acinous cells are generally well enough preserved to be identified , and contain many zymogen granules .
On the whole the general colour of the protoplasm is less evident than usual , and only the group arrangement and the presence of typical zymogen granules allow the acinous cells to be distinguished .
The duct and centroacinous cells seem to be increased in number , and when found in groups resemble islets .
A great many cells scattered through the specimen have the appearance of islet cells , but on looking through 30-40 sections I have found no complete typical islets .
, Duct Ligation .
Experiment 5.\#151 ; Adult female .
Weight , 7'3 kgrm .
In good condition .
Morphine , ether .
Ligation of ducts .
Good recovery from ether .
4th day.\#151 ; 24 hours ' specimen of urine contains no sugar .
11th day.\#151 ; Weight , 6'25 kgrm .
18th day.\#151 ; Weight , 7 kgrm .
28th day.\#151 ; Weight , 7'25 kgrm .
35th day.\#151 ; No sugar in overnight urine .
Weight , 7'75 kgrm .
Animal seems fat and well .
Killed by bleeding under ether .
Examination.\#151 ; The pancreas is shrunken to two-thirds its original length .
The whole splenic end is much narrowed and a little thickened .
It appears pale and scar-like .
The duodenal end is much the same .
The region of the duct outlets for about 3 cm .
is broad , thick , white , and opaque , resembling exactly the 16-day ( Experiment 2 ) and 1912 .
] Islets of Langerhans to the Pancreatic part of the 26-day ( Experiment 3 ) grafts .
There is a little clear fluid in the tissue about this region , but no evidence of the re-establishment of the ducts or the escape of pancreatic juice into the bowel can be made out .
( Probably some slight connection has been re-established , as the animal 's digestion after the first two weeks became so much improved .
) Microscopic Examination.\#151 ; The thick , opaque portion resembles that of Experiments 2 and 3 referred to above .
The shrunken splenic end resembles in some degree the contracted portion of Experiment 3 and the whole of Experiment 4 ( 26- and 33-day grafts ) , but there is less increase of duct tissue and considerably less destruction of the acini .
A number of large islets are present .
These appear normal in every respect , and though their large size and number might lead to the suggestion that new islets had been formed , they are no more in evidence than would be expected in the splenic end after the acinous tissue had shrunk to perhaps one-half its usual volume .
Results of Nearly Complete Pancreas Removal .
These results are to be considered from two points of view : first , and most important , according to the altered appearance of the acini and islets , and second , according to the apparent relation of these appearances to the sugar function of the pancreas .
It is quite evident from my specimens that , in general , the principal changes which have occurred in the pancreatic remains are the increase of duct and centroacinous tissue , which appears to reach its height in the course of the first few weeks , and an invasion by scar tissue of the acini , and probably of the islets as well .
Instead of an interchange of acinous and islet tissue , there is much more a suggestion of a relapsing of islet into duct tissue , and possibly a change of duct to islet .
Even in the small fragments which have remained in the animals for several weeks , the acinous cells , though shrunken and considerably altered in their staining reaction , are comparatively easy to recognise .
One distinguishes between acinous and islet tissue much more easily than between duct and islet tissue , a fact which might well be expected from a consideration of the embryology of the islets and their constant relation ( Laguesse , Bensley ) to the ducts in adult life .
There are present , then , in these specimens , a number of cells which might conceivably be either duct or islet , their grouping suggesting now one and now the other .
In all the grafts , the islet cells , that is , the prevailing cells containing the fine slate blue granules demonstrated by the acid-fuschin technique , the B cells of Lane and Bensley , tend to lose these granules while retaining their mitochondrial filaments , and so resemble strongly the cells of the finer ducts .
In the earlier , less cicatrised grafts , such islets are easily distinguished , and often show only one or two normally stained B cells .
In the more scar-like specimens , when the islet cells retain their grouping , and 84 Dr. J. Homans .
Relation of the [ Oct. 1 , are associated with one or two slate blue cells , they are again easily distinguished , but , when no such granule cells are present , and especially when the islets are disintegrated , a positive identification of any one islet cell , as opposed to a duct cell , seems to me impossible .
This alteration is illustrated in figs. 5 and 6 .
Fig. 6 shows an islet of the 26th day fragment ( Experiment 3 ) .
Several of its cells are obviously B cells , well stained , but the greater part of the islet is not to be distinguished from the masses of duct cells shown in fig. 5 , which is drawn from the same specimen .
I have been unable to determine whether this peculiarity is a result of degeneration or of over-activity , though I am inclined to attribute it to the latter .
For , inasmuch as a very small amount of pancreatic tissue , and that portion containing the fewest islets , is left after operation , the islets , whatever their function , must be working at their maximum capacity .
That their characteristic specific granules should therefore , after a time , be absent , is not surprising .
Moreover , in the duct ligation specimens , though there is considerable formation of scar tissue , the islets , which are apparently not diminished in numbers , and therefore under no physiological strain , present their normal granule content .
Even by a neutral gentian stain , with which I have never succeeded in showing the specific granules in the graft islets of the dog , the granules of the duct ligation islets are easily seen .
It is suggested , then , that when only a small portion of the pancreas is left , the characteristic granules of the B cells are exhausted .
In a badly cicatrised specimen such cells are hard to distinguish , but there is reason to believe that more are present than are immediately evident , and it is possible that the ducts may even be forming islet tissue .
A consideration of the sugar function in connection with these changes shows that none of the animals became severely diabetic .
A considerable amount of sugar appeared sooner or later in the urine of nearly all , and in the dog killed four days after operation it was present from the start .
Less pancreas was left in this instance than in the other observations , probably too little to support life .
Though the islet cells in this specimen were altered in the manner already noted , no conclusions can properly be drawn as to the relative importance of the acinous or islet tissue to carbohydrate metabolism .
The animal killed 16 days after operation was mildly diabetic from the start .
Here the pancreatic acini were highly charged and in good condition , while the islets were composed of feebly stained shrunken cells .
It would be reasonable to suppose that the latter were exhausted from carrying too heavy a load .
The animal killed at the end of 26 days was not diabetic at first and never appeared at all ill .
In this case , as in the 33-day graft , 1912 .
] Islets of Langerhans to the Pancreatic Acini .
both acinous and islet tissue were apparently in process of destruction , and in both the characteristic appearance of normal islets was for the most part absent .
It is unfortunate that the duct ligation experiment could not have been extended , but it is possible that some communication between the pancreas and bowel was being established .
Though a number of investigators have succeeded in reducing the pancreas to a condition in which no zymogenous tissue remained , and only islets were left , without bringing on diabetes , they have not been able to apply the final test of discovering whether the animal could live without what remained .
This is true of the experiments of Laguesse , and others , on duct ligation in the rabbit , in which removal of the pancreas seems to be impossible .
I believe also that no such final test has been applied to the dog with a satisfactory proof of the existence of only genuine islet tissue in what remained .
Until such final proof is given , the association with the islets rather than the acini of an important sugar function is only implied .
Nor does my incomplete investigation more than suggest this conclusion .
Conclusions .
1 .
The islets of Langerhans contain specific granules which allow of their positive identification .
2 .
There is no alteration in the islets , nor any evidence of conversion of acinous to islet tissue , under prolonged stimulation with secretin .
On the contrary , the distinction between the two tissues is , under appropriate staining methods , more clear than usual .
3 .
There is no evidence of the conversion of acinous to islet tissue or the reverse , when only a small part of the pancreas is left to support life .
4 .
There is evidence that islet cells are reduced to a condition in which they appear similar to duct cells under these conditions , the first change being a disappearance or discharge of the granules characteristic of the B cells of Bensley .
5 .
There is evidence of an increase of duct tissue under the same conditions , but no evidence that this tissue produces new islets or takes up their function .
6 .
There is no positive evidence that islets are of vital importance to carbohydrate metabolism , but as between islet and acinous tissue the evidence favours the islet .
Dr. J. Homans .
T Relation of the [ Oct. 1 , BIBLIOGRAPHY .
Bayliss and Starling , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1902 , vol. 28 , p. 325 .
Bensley , ' Amer .
Journ. Anat .
, ' 1911 , vol. 12 , p. 297 .
Dale , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1904 , B , vol. 197 , p. 25 .
Dale and Laidlaw , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 44 ; ' Proc. Physiol. Soc. , ' 1912 , p. 11 .
Dewitt , 'Journ .
Exp. Med. , ' 1906 , vol. 8 , p. 193 .
Diamare , ' Internat .
Monatsch .
f. Anat .
u. Physiol. , ' 1899 , vol. 16 , p. 155 .
H. Fischer , 'Arch .
f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' 1912 , vol. 79 , p. 276 .
Frugini and Stradiotti , 'Arch .
Ital .
de Biol. , ' 1909 , vol. 51 , p. 186 .
( Author 's resume from ' Lo Sperimentale , ' 1909 , vol. 63 .
) Hedon , ' Arch. Internat .
de Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 10 , p. 350 .
Helly , ' Arch. f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' 1905 , vol. 67 , p. 124 .
Herxheimer , ' Virchow 's Archiv , ' 1906 , vol. 183 , p. 228 .
KarakaschifF , ' Deutsches Arch. f. klin .
Med. , ' 1904 , vol. 82 , p. 60 ; also 1906 , vol. 87 , p. 291 .
Kiister , ' Arch. f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' 1904 , vol. 64 , p. 158 .
Kyrle , 'Arch .
f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' 1908 , vol. 72 , p. 141 .
Laguesse , 'Journ .
de l'Anat .
et de la Physiol. , ' 1895 , vol. 31 , p. 475 ; 1896 , vol. 32 , pp. 171 and 208 .
Ibid. , 'Arch .
d'Anat .
Micr .
, ' 1901 , vol. 4 , p. 157 .
Ibid. , ' Count .
Rend , de la Soc. de Biol. , ' 1902 , vol. 54 , p. 852 .
Ibid. , 'Arch .
d'Anat .
Micr .
, ' 1910 , vol. 11 , p. 1 .
Ibid. , ' Journ. de Physiol , et de Path , gen .
, ' 1911 , vol. 13 , p. 5 .
Ibid. , ' Journ. de Physiol , et de Path , gen .
, ' 1911 , vol. 13 , p. 673 .
Lane , 'Amer .
Journ. Anat .
, ' 1907 , vol. 7 , p. 409 .
Lewaschew , 'Arch .
f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' 1886 , vol. 26 , p. 453 .
Mankowski , 'Arch .
f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' 1902 , vol. 59 , p. 286 .
v. Mering and Minkowski , 'Arch .
f. Exp. Path .
u. Pharm. , ' 1890 , vol. 26 , p. 371 .
Opie , 'Johns Hopkins Hosp .
Bull .
, ' 1900 , vol. 11 , p. 205 .
Ibid. , 'Journ .
Exp. Med. , ' 1901 , vol. 5 , pp. 397 and 527 .
Pearce , ' Amer .
Journ. Anat .
, ' 1903 , vol. 2 , p. 445 .
Sauerbeck , ' Verhandl .
der Deutsch .
path .
Gesellsch .
, ' 1904 , p. 217 ; ' Centralbl .
f. allgem .
Path .
u. path .
Anat .
, ' vol. 15 , p. 217 .
W. Schiiltze , ' Arch. f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' 1900 , vol. 56 , p. 491 .
Ssobolew , 'Virchow 's Archiv , ' 1902 , vol. 168 , p. 91 .
Step , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 43 , p. 441 .
Tiberti , 'Arch .
Ital .
de Biol. , ' 1909 , vol. 51 , p. 117 .
( Author 's resume from ' Lo Speri-mentale , ' 1908 , vol. 62 , p. 1 .
) Ibid. , 'Arch .
Ital .
de Biol. , ' 1909 , vol. 51 , p. 123 .
( Author 's resume from 'Lo Sperimentale , ' 1908 , vol. 62 , p. 399 .
) Tiberti and Franchetti , 'Arch .
Ttal .
de Biol. , ' 1909 , vol. 51 , p. 127 .
( Authors ' resume from ' Lo Sperimentale , ' 1908 , vol. 62 , p. 81 .
) Tschassownikow , ' Arch. f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' 1905 , vol. 67 , p. 758 .
Vincent and Thompson , ' Internat .
Monatsch .
f. Anat .
u. Physiol. , ' 1907 , vol. 24 , p. 61 Weichselbaum and Kyrle , ' Arch. f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' 1909 , vol. / 4 , p. 223 .
Wright and Joslin , 'Journ .
Med. Research , ' 1901 , vol. 6 , p. 360 .
Homans .
1 , L'1/ UUI* ' / fUL .
iJ .
VVUOO , I t C. \#169 ; il%ls ; 3.1 \^r r.b.c. i\#174 ; * ? .
it \#174 ; " \#169 ; #\#163 ; .
, .\#169 ; \#171 ; f:|r\#171 ; s \#174 ; r J$Uh 1$ 3 , , 0 \#166 ; * \ * ?
P -..v : ?
J\#163 ; .
' Sr A ' m $$ \#166 ; mi\#174 ; vj .\#166 ; .\#166 ; \#171 ; . .
\#166 ; \#169 ; ' \#166 ; \#169 ; / v V ... .
\#166 ; \#169 ; .'\#166 ; .
" ' ' \ ' ... " J\#169 ; \#169 ; 'P oo %\ \ A \amp ; \amp ; .
6 .
rhc .
WATg R 1.0 W SONS UM'TtS , IONPON WAH .
, UONDON Islets of Langerhans to the Pancreatic Acini .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES 2 and 3 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Normal islet in the charged pancreas of the dog .
, A cells of Lane .
, B cells of Lane , c , centroacinous cells , r.b.c. , red blood corpuscles .
Notice the arrangement of the large round zymogen granules in the surrounding acini , also the distribution of the mitochondrial filaments .
The borders of the islet are extremely irregular and no limiting membrane is present .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Normal islet in the exhausted pancreas of the dog .
a , A cells of Lane , b , B cells of Lane .
Notice the distribution of their granules along the capillaries , which are indicated by the red blood corpuscles { r.b.c. ) .
, centroacinous cells .
d , duct cells , which are continuous with those of the islet below and low down on the right .
z , exhausted acini .
Notice the prevailing absence of zymogen granules , the presence of some mitochondrial filaments , and the vacuolisation of the cells .
In the low right-hand corner a small group of acinous cells is cut off- from the rest by a small duct .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Normal islet in the charged pancreas of the guinea-pig .
a , A cells of Lane , undifferentially stained , b , B cells of Lane , containing fine blue granules .
z , acini , containing zymogen granules .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Normal islet in the exhausted pancreas of the guinea-pig .
a , A cells of Lane .
b , B cells of Lane , m , acinous cells , containing " Mankowski " granules .
z , acini without zymogen granules .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Group of duct cells and atrophied acini ( from 26-day fragment ) , c , centroacinous cells , d , masses of duct cells , which partly retain their tubular arrangement and occupy the central part of the figure .
Notice the resemblance of these cells in the arrangement of their mitochondrial filaments and granules to the islet of fig. 6 .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Islet containing only a few typical B cells ( from 26-day fragment ) , b , B cells of Lane , d , duct cells ( poorly preserved ) , z , acini containing zymogen granules .
Notice the small number of typical B cells .
The rest of the islet cells might , from their appearance , be duct cells or A cells .
Compare with figs. 5 and 1 .
VOL. LXXXVI.\#151 ; B. H

