VI .
An Account of an Experiment made on Thursday the last Day of June , 1720 .
before the R. Society , to show by a new proof , that Bodies of the same Bulk do not contain equal quantities of Matter , and therefore that there is an interspersed Vacuum .
By J. T. Desaguliers .
I Took 3 Pound of Mercury , which by measure filled three times a small glass Jar exactly full , and poured it into a thin Florence Flask : then having poured the same quantity of Water ( that is , three of the same Jars full ) into another such Flask , I set both the Flasks in a Pail , and poured boiling Water about them , keeping the Flask that had the Water down by force , that it might be as low in the hot Water as the Mercury .
After the Fluids in the Flasks had received a sufficient degree of heat from the Water , which was round the Flasks , for the space of five Minutes , I took the Flasks out of the hot Water , and putting that which held the Water into a Cylindrick Vessel that had three Pints of cold Water in it , I did at the same time plunge the Flask with Mercury into another Cylindrick Vessel containing also three Pints of cold Water , and observed which of the cold Waters was most heated in the following manner A little Thermometer being held in the first Vessel of cold Water so as to have its Ball covered with the Water , upon the putting in the Flask of warm Water , the Spirit rose 2 degrees ; then putting the Thermometer into the Water where the Flask that had the Mercury was , the Spirit rose three degrees higher .
The Thermometer being again put into the first Vessel fell 4 degrees , and afterwards again into the last it rose almost 3 degrees .
This shows that more heat is communicated by warm Mercury , than by an equal Bulk of Water equally warmed ; and therefore that there is more matter in the Mercury ; but how much more matter there is in the Mercury is not determined by this Experiment alone .
N. B. The warm Mercury and the warm Water were not poured into the cold ; but only communicated their heat thro ' the Flasks .

