2 .
" On the Universal Law of Attraction , including that of Gravitation , as a particular case of approximation deducible from the principle that equal and similar particles of matter move similarly , relatively to each other .
" By John Kinnersley Smythies , Esq. Coinmunicated by T. F. Ellis , Esq. , F.R.S. After stating the general object of his investigations and explaining the notation he employs , the author enters upon some preliminary geometrical inquiries .
He gives the equation between the six right lines drawn between four points in a plane ; the solidity of a tetrahedron in terms of its edges : the equation between the cosines of the six angles made by four right lines meeting in a point ; and the equation between ten right lines drawn between five points , with some formulam of verification .
Giving some general rules for the transformation and consolidation of series , he transforms the last equation into one involving the solidities of tetrahedrons , and shows how the sign of each tetrahedron in that equation is determined by its position relatively to the least solid including them all ; and then gives the equation between all the right lines drawn between n points .
Having shown that the result of differentiating the product of n variables , m times successively may be derived from the mth power of the sum of the n variables , developed by the polynomial theorem by substituting for every power of each variable its differential of an order numerically the same as the power ; and applied the theorem to find the differential of the mth order of the equation between ten right lines drawn between five points ; the author gives the first four successive differentials of the same equation in another form .
Proceeding with his investigation he deduces the necessary equation between the distances and central forces of five moving points , and derives from it the general system of equations which determine the motion of any number of spheres in terms of r ( the function of the distance according to which the attractive force varies ) , their masses and mutual distances .
After proving that any number of spheres may move so that the central force shall vary directly as the distance , he shows that only certain values of p are possible for an infinite number of spheres , giving the criterion of possibility ; and thence that the only possible law of central force for an infinite number of spheres is that in which the force varies directly as the distance .
The author then enters upon some general considerations on the physical impossibility of an universal law , rigorously exact and expressed by equations involving differentials of no higher order than the second , and on the amount of disturbance by extraneous agencies .
HIaving shown how all equations expressed by rectangular coordinates may be transformed into others involving only the mutual distances of the spheres at m equal intervals of time , he gives an equation of differences defining the motion of n points , such that the distances and their differentials of every order not exceeding m may have any assigned values .
After deducing a general formula for transforming equations of differences not exceeding the mnth order into equations between the distances at m equal intervals of time , the author applies it to the last equation , and shows that the equations so found are possible for any number of moving points and for every value of m ; and that the most general law , by which the motion of n equal spheres can be determined , so that all move according to the same law at all times , may be found by taking a proper value of m. He then shows that these equations give a method of unlimited approximation to any unknown law ; and suggests the mode of extending the solution of the problem to solids of ' any figure and mass .
Finally , he gives the mth differential of the distance between any pair of points moving according to this law , in terms of the differentials of lower orders including the distances .

