February 27 , 1851 .
SIR FREDERICK POLLOCK , Lord Chief Baron , V.P. , in the Chair .
The question of Mr. J. S. Russell 's re-admission into the Society was put to the vote and carried .
Lieut.-Colonel Sabine 's paper , entitled " On Periodical Laws discoverable in the mean effects of the larger Magnetic Disturbances , " was concluded .
In a discussion of the two-hourly observations of the magnetic declination , made in 1841 and 1842 at the observatories of Toronto and Ilobarton , published in 1843 and 1845 , the author expressed an opinion that the magneticdisturbances , oflargeamountand apparently irregular occurrence , commonly called magnetic storms or shocks , would be found , when studied in their mean effects on the magnetic direction and force extending over a sufficient period of time , to be subject to periodical laws , connecting them with the seasons of the year and the hours of the day at the particular stations .
In preparing for the press the hourly observations of the declination in the years 1843 , 1844 and 1845 , at the same two stations , the author found his previous opinions strongly confirmed ; and believing that the evidence thus obtained of periodical laws is far too systematic , and rests on a series of too long duration to make it probable that it will be otherwise than confirmed by the continuation of the observations in subsequent years , he has been induced to make it the subject of a communication to the Royal Society ; although it is probable that the exact periods , and the mean numerical values of the effects produced , or their proportions to each other in the different seasons and at the different hours , may hereafter receive modifications .
The disturbances which are the subject of this investigation have two leading characteristics , st , the irregularity of their occurrence , many days together frequently passing without any trace of them being discoverable ; and 2nd , the large amount of deviation from a mean or normal position , to which the needle is subject during their continuance .
It is this last feature which has led to their general recognition , and to the establishmrent of the fact , that when they take place their influence usually extends simultaneously , or nearly so , over all parts of ' the globe at which observations have been made .
The same feature still affords their best and most convenient distinguishing mark .
Availing himself of this characteristic , the author separated from the whole mass of hourly observations in the three years at both stations a sufficient portion of disturbed observations to form an adequate basis for investigation .
The portion thus separated consisted at Toronto of the 1650 largest deviations of the declination magnet from its mean position ; the whole number of hourly observations in the same period being 22,376 , and the proportion therefore being 1 in 13*6 ; and at Hobarton of the 1479 largest deviations , the whole number being 21,436 , and the proportion 1 in 14'5 .
Of the 1650 disturbed observations at Toronto , 472 were in 1843 , 612 in 1844 , and 566 in 1845 .
Of the 1479 disturbed observations at Hobarton , 415 were in 1843S , 562 in 1844 , and 502 in 1845 .
Whence it appears , that at both stations , situated as they are in opposite hemispheres and nearly at opposite points of the globe , 1843 was the least disturbed year of the three , and 1844 the most so .
Taking the number in 1845 as unity , the numerical proportions at each station are as follows : Toronto .
Hobarton .
1843 ... ... .
084 0883 1844 ... ... . .
1-08 1-12 1845 ... ... 11 00 1 This accordance , and the fact that the separated disturbed observations in these years occurred for the most part on the same days at the two stations , are noticed as corroborating the conclusions , derived from former investigations , of the character of these disturbances as affecting contemporaneously the most distant parts of the globe .
Several tables are given containing the distribution of the separated observations , -1st , into the several months , and 2nd , into the several hours , of their occurrence , the hours being those of local time .
This is done , first , in regard to the number of disturbed observations in the several months and hours ; a separate account being taken of those which are easterly , and of those which are westerly deflections ; and second , in regard to the mean numerical values of the deflections at the different hours , distinguishing easterly and westerly , and taken on a daily average throughout the year .
The results of this analysis are carefully stated ; and are conclusive , in the author 's opinion , in manifesting the existence of periodical laws in the times of occurrence and in the effects of the larger disturbances ; these laws having points of remarkable analogy at both stations , and showing a causal connexion to subsist between the disturbances on the one hand , and the seasons of the year and hours of the day on the other .
The author remarks on the practical bearing which the establishment of such laws must have on the researches , which have been recently brought before the Royal Society by one of its most distinguished members , into the physical causes of the periodical variations of terrestrial magnetism , particularly of the diurnal magnetic variation .
The present investigation shows that the latter phenomenon must now be regarded as consisting of two periodical variations , superimposed upon each other , having extremely dissimilar laws , and probably therefore different immediate causes .
These constituent parts of the variation will bear different proportions to each other in different parts of the globe , and in many parts of the globe it will be necessary , in the author 's opinion , to separate the whole diurnal variation into its constituents in order to study their respective physical causes .
At Toronto and Hobarton the diurnal variation occasioned by the disturbances forms a clearly recognizable part of the whole ( liurnal variation ; the greater part , if not the whole of that remarkable phenomenon , which Mr. Faraday has termed the " nocturnal episode , " appearing to be attributable to this cause .
The author concludes by remarking , that the investigation which forms the subject of this paper cannot be regarded as complete , until the influence of the larger disturbances on the phenomena of the magnetic inclination and force have undergone a similar examination .
This he hopes to have a future opportunity of submitting to the Society .

