431 The Formation of Ice and the Grained Structure of Glaciers .
By G. Quincke , For .
Mem. R.S. , Professor of Physics in the University of Heidelberg .
( Received June 19 , 1905 .
) In the following pages I have the honour to lay before the Royal Society the results of a lengthy research on the formation of ice and the grained structure of glaciers , which may serve as a complement to the previous investigations on the same subject published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' and 'Proceedings of the Royal Society ' by Forbes , Tyndall and Huxley , Tyndall , Faraday , T. Graham , J. F. Main , J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd , and elsewhere by Guyot , Agassiz , James Thomson , and Sir William Thomson ( now Lord Kelvin ) , Hermann and Adolf Schlagintweit , Person , Leydolt , Riidorff , Bertin , Grad and A. Dupre , Moseley , A. Heim , J. T. Bottomley , K. R Koch and Klocke , Forel , Ed. Hagenbach-Bischoff , E. von Drygalski , Miigge , H. Hess and others .
1 .
It will be convenient at the outset to define the precise meaning with which it is proposed to employ certain words , some of which are in vague popular use , while others are less familiar or new .
By an oily liquid will be meant one which has surface tension in the \#166 ; common surface with other liquids with which it may be in contact .
According to this definition a solution of any salt will , in comparison with pure water or a weaker salt solution , be called , under certain circumstances , an oily liquid .
An emulsion is a watery liquid containing suspended drops of oily liquid , \#166 ; or drops of any sort enclosed in an oily skin .
These drops can coalesce into larger drops , or the oily skins can join on to one another , and form a continuous mass of bubbles or foam .
Thus foam consists of portions of watery liquid enclosed in , and separated from , one another by adjacent partitions of oily liquid .
Each space thus enclosed will be called a and the enclosing partition the foam-wall .
If the foam-cells are very small , and the fluid foam-walls very thin ( or invisible ) , the whole is then a liquid jelly .
The jelly is stiff , the foam stiff or solid , when the walls or the contents of the foam-cells , or both , have become solid .
" Nearly pure"applied to water or ice will be used in the special sense of xt containing only very small amounts of any salt .
" Salt itself is used throughout in the general chemical sense , that is , not restricted to sodium chloride .
432 Prof. G. Quincke .
The Formation of [ June 19 2 .
I have allowed pure water , and water containing dissolved salt , to freeze in the dark at various rates , and to melt away slowly in the dark , in open air , and in sunlight .
The ice prisms employed were from 1 to 1000 mm. thick , and as the thawing proceeded their various layers were systematically examined\#151 ; sometimes for days together\#151 ; with the naked eye , with the microscope , and with polarized light .
The same appearances presented themselves in the same order as those which for 37 years past I have investigated and described in solutions of silicic acid , glue , or other colloids , when these are evaporated to form gelatinous masses or thin films , and develop fissures .
I have shown that thin viscous oily films of more concentrated solution exist in a less concentrated solution of the same substance , and form folds , straight and twisted tubes , cylinders or cones , spheres and bubbles , open and closed foam-cells with visible and invisible foam walls .
Thin solid films behave like films of very viscous liquid .
Whether the oily films form tubes or bubbles and foam-cells joining on to one another , depends on the viscosity of the oily liquid .
The mutual inclination of the foam walls , and their surface tensions , continually change as the concentration of the oily liquid changes , and in the case of invisible foam-walls may depend also on the thickness of the oily film .
When the oily film is very thin , its surface tension diminishes with diminishing thickness of the film .
Oily foam-walls that are formed against solid surfaces are normal to these surfaces .
If three oily foam-walls meet in a common edge at equal angles of 120 , ' they have equal surface tensions .
The foam-cells of a liquid jelly immersed in water can increase or diminish in volume by the diffusion of water through the foam-wall inwards or outwards , i.e. , the liquid jelly can swell or shrink .
Two clots of liquid jelly can coalesce into one , which does not occur with clots of solid jelly , nor can these latter swell or shrink .
A liquid jelly becomes for the time being positively or negatively doubly refracting when the viscous walls , or the viscous contents of the foam-cells , are expanded or compressed .
A jelly remains permanently doubly refracting when the walls or the contents of the foam-chambers solidify while in an expanded condition .
3 .
Now , ice is a liquid jelly , with foam-walls of concentrated " oily " salt solution , which enclose foam-cells containing viscous , doubly refracting , pure or nearly pure water .
4 .
The further the temperature falls below 0 ' , the greater is the viscosity of both liquids\#151 ; in the walls and in the interior of the foam-cells\#151 ; and the less the plasticity of the ice .
5 .
At very low temperatures the ice breaks with conchoidal fracture 1905 .
] Ice and the Grained Structure of Glaciers .
433 ' at the surface of the invisible spherical foam-walls , which as the whole cools have contracted differently from their contents .
6 .
The " glacier grains " are foam-cells filled with pure or nearly pure ice , and separated from one another by visible or invisible walls of oily salt solution .
7 .
The union of two pieces of ice under water ( " Eegelation " ) , and the increase in size of the glacier grains as they approach the lower end of the glacier , correspond to the running together of two gelatinous clots ( of silicic acid , or glue ) containing liquid foam-cells and liquid cell-contents .
At the same time the oily foam-walls between the glacier grains become thicker , and then get thinner again through the draining away of the liquid salt solution at the foot of the glacier .
8 .
All water , even the purest , contains traces of salt .
As the water cools , ice crystals and oily mother liquor separate at short intervals , or periodically .
Under the influence of the surface tension , the oily salt solution forms invisible foam-walls , whose surface tension decreases as the thickness of the walls and the concentration of the salt solution diminish .
Otherwise , as the cooling proceeds , the salt solution becomes continually more concentrated , and the wall thinner .
Finally , the concentrated salt solution also freezes to-ice and solid salt .
The value of the surface tension determines the angles at which three walls meet in a common edge .
If three foam-walls meet at equal angles of 120 ' , the three walls have equal surface tensions , whereas an inclination of 90 ' means that fluid foam-walls have been formed in contact with old and already solidified ones .
9 .
When water containing air freezes , the air , like the salts dissolved in the water , separates out at short intervals , or periodically .
The white places in ice , which are those containing these air bubbles , are also the richest in salt .
10 .
As water containing salt , but free from air , cools , the periodical separation of ice and salt gives rise , alike in sea ice , in artificial ice , and in glacier ice , to layers of ice containing varying amounts of salt .
By pressure or by absorption of radiation ( sunlight , electric light , or daylight ) , the parts of the ice which are rich in salt melt sooner than pure ice .
11 .
In sunlight or electric light furrows are formed at the places rich in salt on the surface of sea ice , artificial ice , and glacier ice .
( Forel 's stripes ; Forbes ' " dirt bands " ; foam-walls of the great foam-cells of the Kjendal Glacier .
) 12 .
The salt solution formed in sea ice , artificial ice , or glacier ice , through pressure or sunshine , shows , by the hollows which it fills , the forms assumed under the influence of the surface tension by the boundary between the oily Prof. G. Quincke .
The of [ June 19 \#166 ; salt solution and the water just before the freezing of the water .
As the ice melts , it contracts .
Thus in sea ice pressure or absorption of heat radiation causes the formation , in horizontal layers parallel to the frozen surface , of Tyndall 's liquefaction figures , vacuous bubbles , ice flowers , and " fir trees " with branches meeting at 120 ' and 90 ' , just like those obtained when colloid solutions are evaporated to dryness , or when salt solutions are allowed to crystallise .
In the case of artificial ice which has been frozen in deep prismatic troughs , these liquefaction figures are formed in the diagonal and median planes of the ice block , which were the last parts to freeze , and where the mother liquor had accumulated .
13 .
Sea ice and artificial ice break up in sunlight into little hexagonal prisms of clear ice .
These suffer mutual displacement the less easily the thinner are the fine foam-walls ( which have now melted again , and which , when the freezing took place , were formed out of oily salt solution , normal to the surface ) and the less salt the water contained before freezing .
The purer the water was , the larger are these hexagonal prisms or foam-cells .
14 .
The capillary fissures in transparent glacier ice are these fine foam-walls of oily salt solution .
15 .
When water containing little salt freezes in deep metal troughs surrounded with strongly-cooled brine , the oily salt solution separates in thin layers normal to the surface , and forms bubbles , foam-cells clinging to one another , or\#151 ; when the oily liquid at low temperatures is very viscous\#151 ; folds or hollow pipes , which are filled with pure or nearly pure ice , or with air if such were present in the water .
The artificial ice is seen to be traversed by many horizontal tubes , normal to the surface , which are specially numerous in the diagonal and median planes of the ice block , where the mother liquor had accumulated .
The less salt is contained in the ice , the more transparent are these diagonal and median planes of the artificial ice block .
Illumination with sunlight or daylight causes the appearance of fresh tubes .
The ice becomes more cloudy , and subsequently more transparent again .
16 .
When water containing air freezes in deep metal troughs , the upper part of the ice block shows horizontal layers consisting alternately of transparent pure ice and of opaque salt-containing ice with numerous air bubbles .
The more salt the water contains , the more numerous and the closer are the opaque layers .
In sunlight these opaque layers melt more easily than the transparent ones , and furrows are formed on the surface of the opaque ice .
17 .
If the ice is allowed to thaw again in a warm room , or is exposed to 1905 .
] Ice and the Grained Structure of Glaciers .
radiation ( daylight ) , the parts rich in salt melt sooner than those which contain little salt .
The tubes of oily salt solution bulge and coil up , and then break up with contraction of volume into spherical hubbies , which may be vacuous or filled with air .
The foam-cells exhibit the shapes like those of colloids and jellies as they swell or shrink , or those tree-like and branched formations which I have described in the case of the " liquid precipitates " of metallic silicates and cyanides .
If the capillary fissures in this opaque ice are filled with very viscous salt solution , or if the oily salt solution forms no continuous foam-cells , it cannot run away .
The ice remains white , as glacier ice actually does .
18 .
When an ice block thaws under the long-continued action of daylight , there appear , in the diagonal and median planes of the block , bright hands and cloudy bands , which change their shape and position as the duration and intensity of the radiation alters .
This is due to the formation of new foam-walls of oily salt solution and the disappearance of old ones .
The angles between the foam-walls are also seen to change , which means that the surface tension of these walls is changing .
Now as the amount of salt in the diagonal planes increases , and the absorbed radiation diminishes , towards the interioi of the ice , and as further the surface tension and viscosity alter with changing concentration and temperature , it follows that the shapes assumed by the oily layers in the interior of the ice under the influence of the surface tension also undergo change .
19 .
After 30 to 36 hours , the block of artificial ice had melted in the warm room to half its original height ( 1 metre ) , and at the foot and warmer places had given way in a pasty mass .
In the upper portion foam-walls had formed in the pure ice , inclined 120 ' to one another .
In these , as in the median layer that had thawed away , melting salt solution ran down for hours .
At the warmer places , and at the thin uppermost crust , glacier grains were formed .
These were foam-cells , 5 to 10 mm. wide , filled with doubly refracting ice , and separated from one another by singly refracting foam-walls of transparent salt solution .
At the junctions of the foam-walls there often lay tetrahedra , bounded by spherical surfaces and filled with transparent liquid .
20 .
In the diagonal and median planes of a block of artificial ice ( 1 metre high ) containing a certain very small amount of salt , and exposed to a certain intensity of radiation , there can be formed horizontal closed tubes of pure or nearly pure ice , having rounded heads and sides bulging at places , and filled with liquid salt solution .
They slowly swell , slowly break up into separate bubbles , and then slowly pass away .
They are first formed low down , at places of high pressure , and afterwards higher up , at places of low pressure .
21 .
When distilled water , free from air , was frozen in iron troughs , it was VOL. lxxvi.\#151 ; a. 2 H Prof. G. Quincke .
The Formation of [ June 19 , found at a certain temperature or with a certain concentration of the salt solution and the oily foam-wall , that the walls and contents of the closed tubes in the lower part of the median plane were for some time coloured yellow .
Subsequently this colour disappeared .
It was not present when the water was frozen in brass troughs .
I believe it was due to ferric oxide , which was differently soluble in the walls and in the liquid inside the foam-cells , and at a higher temperature became insoluble and sank to the bottom .
22 .
The phenomena of melting ice depend both on the velocity of freezing and the velocity of thawing .
The more rapidly the water freezes , the more numerous are the foam-walls , and the smaller the foam-cells .
23 .
Very dilute solutions of different salts , when slowly frozen under similar conditions , give oily layers of varying viscosity and surface tension or spheres , bubbles , tubes and foam-walls of varying form .
I have shown this with freshly boiled water containing 0-000003 per cent , of NaGl , or equivalent quantities of KC1 , K2CO3 , CaCla , MgCl2 , A^SO^ .
The water was frozen in prismatic troughs of brass or tin .
24 .
During the freezing of water containing 0-0015 per cent , of Na2S04 , and also containing air , the air separated at the same time as the mother liquor .
The bounding surface between air and almost solidified , very viscous liquid , tends to become as small as possible , and rolls up together to form hollow cylinders , whose radii are the smaller the more quickly the ice has frozen .
The water freezes the more slowly , the further it is from the strongly cooled ( below 0 ' ) side of the trough .
The thin layers forming the walls of the tubes are normal to the solid surface of the side of the trough , or of the transparent mantle of ice which encloses the mother liquor .
They frequently form cylindrical or conical tubes , 6 to 12 mm. long , with a whitish skin , and filled with air .
Their axes are normal to the surface , and their pointed ends are directed towards the outer side of the ice mantle .
At the base of the tubes , which may be 0*5 to 2 mm. wide , there hangs a whitish hollow sphere inside the mother liquor .
25 .
On slowly freezing water containing from 0 00014 to 0 0014 per cent , of Na2S04 or 0'003 per cent , of NaCl , it happens at times that the mother liquor , which is surrounded by a transparent mantle of ice , contains numerous flat crystalline plates of pure ice .
These , by their shape , position and inclination to one another , clearly show that they have been formed from thin oily foam-walls of pure water , which , as the cooling proceeded , have separated from the watery salt solution , and then solidified .
26 .
When a test tube , containing boiling distilled water , is plunged into liquid air , the water freezes very quickly to a milky-white mass of ice , with fissures normal to the surface of the glass .
If the test-tube with the white 1905 .
] Ice and the Grained Structure of Glaciers .
437 jce\#151 ; the whole being now cooled down to \#151 ; 190'\#151 ; is plunged into distilled water , it becomes coated on the outside with a thin crust of ice , which can be detached with a knife , and examined in a watch glass under the polarising microscope .
It consists of small glacier grains or foam-cells ( 0-l to 0-2 mm. in diameter ) whose flat walls are normal to the cylindrical surface , and are inclined to one another at angles of 120 ' , 110 ' and so on .
The interior of each foam-cell contains a crystal of ice , which in the different cells is differently orientated .
When the ice in the test-tube is crushed with a steel point , it exhibits a fibrous fracture , with fine fibres normal to the cylindrical surface .
Occasionally in the cross-section are seen concentric cylinders composed alternately of transparent and of white ice .
The latent heat of the slowly freezing water diminishes the loss of heat , and the velocity of cooling changes .
The ice in the transparent layers was frozen slowly , that in the opaque ones quickly .
As this ice thaws in a watch glass under the polarising microscope , the lumps of quickly-frozen white ice exhibit immense numbers of strings\#151 ; arranged radially alongside one another\#151 ; of spheres and lenticular masses , 0'01 to 002 mm. in thickness , consisting of very nearly pure water In each sphere there was a vacuous bubble 0'0006 mm. in diameter .
27 .
Slowly-frozen water showed , on thawing , similar strings of ( liquid ) spheres and lenticular masses ( of larger size , viz. , 0-04 to 0T2 mm. diameter ) , normal to the surface of the block of ice .
These spheres and lens-shaped masses had been formed out of solid or hollow cylinders , or long thin cones with local swellings or bulgings .
Frequently lens-shaped masses bounded by two spherical surfaces lay in a thin , flat , spiral or warped foam-wall .
28 .
The fibres and cylindrical or conical tubes , like the tubes filled with air , are formed out of thin layers of very viscous , oily liquid , which , as the cooling proceeded , separated out , normal to the surface , and under the influence of the surface tension rolled up , being unable , by reason of excessive viscosity , to form spheres or bubbles .
29 .
When the thawing has gone on for a long time , fewer foam-walls and larger foam-cells , or glacier grains , appear in the lumps of ice .
The strings of liquid spheres , normal to the surface , show an increase in the size of the spheres , caused by the coalescence of the small spheres in the doubly-refracting mass of ice into larger ones .
An increased amount of salt in the ice assists this coalescence .
The tubes or strings of spheres could often be followed continuously through 'Several glacier grains .
The partition walls of the glacier grains , when illuminated , often show hundreds of small lens-shaped masses of the same or gradually diminishing size .
30 .
By repeated fractional freezing and melting of the ice crystals formed , continually purer and purer ice is obtained , with increasingly large foam- 2 h 2 Prof. G. Quincke .
The Formation of [ June 19 , cells or glacier grains .
I have , however , not yet succeeded , even by repeated slow freezing , in obtaining ice free from foam-walls or from glacier grains .
31 .
A block of transparent ice was cut through , as described by Bottomley , with a loaded wire loop .
The loop was of steel wire , or of platinum wire previously heated to redness , and carried 2 kilogrammes or more .
In no case was the plane of section transparent , but always opaque from the presence of solidified foam bubbles of oily salt solution , possessing refracting power different from that of their surroundings .
32 .
Each separate glacier grain in artificial ice contains a differently orientated crystal of ice , whose optic axis is very seldom normal to the surface of the ice .
When in natural sea ice the optic axes of the separate crystals in the different grains are found to be normal or parallel to the free surface of the water , the separation of orientated crystals of ice may have been started by the contact-action of ice crystals or snow flakes falling on the surface of the super-cooled water , and swimming thereon in a horizontal position .
33 .
The more slowly artificial ice has frozen , and the less salt it contains* the more transparent , rigid , and difficult to cut with a knife it is .
34 .
Every block of artificial ice cleaves , on pressure with a steel point , along the diagonal and median planes , in which , as the ice crystals separated out on freezing , the mother liquor became more concentrated through holding the traces of salt dissolved in a continually diminishing volume of liquid .
35 .
The planes of easiest cleavage in natural ice crystals ( laminated structure , displacement without bending ) are due to invisible layers of liquid salt solution which are embedded in the crystals , normal to the optic axis , or often in other positions .
36 .
Ice crystals at temperatures below 0 ' consist of doubly-refracting viscous liquid , and are intermediate between the soft crystals of serum albumen and ordinary crystals of quartz , felspar , etc. 37 .
At the edge of Tyndall 's liquefaction figures , while they are in process of enlarging , or on the bursting of the foam-walls of'artificial ice as it melts , one often sees periodic vortex movements .
These arise from a periodic capillary spreading out ( " Ausbreitung " ) of the salt solution of the foam-walls at the boundary between pure water and air or vacuum .
38 .
Tyndall and Huxley observed in white glacier ice transparent lenticular masses bounded by spherical surfaces .
These were foam bubbles of water free from air , which were enclosed in a thin skin of oily salt solution and had solidified while embedded in such a skin .
1905 .
] Ice and the Grained Structure of Glaciers .
439 39 .
The blue bands in glacier ice consist of pure ice , while the white bands are composed of ice containing salt and air bubbles .
They are formed by the periodical action of solar radiation and by changing pressure , or by the slow descent of the portions rich in salt , or by the slow ascent of air bubbles in the viscous liquid of the glacier ice .
40 .
The ice of the snow flakes which fall on the upper part of the glacier becomes fertilised with inorganic salts derived from disintegrated rocks , and is , as it were , hatched out by the sun 's rays , forming " nev4 " or " firn " snow and glacier grains , or foam-cells filled with ice in the glacier proper .
The glacier ice travels on , rolling ( or " wallowing " ) slowly downwards as a living river of ice .
Its skeleton of liquid salt solution changes the while , and forms new and larger foam-cells , which , at the lower end of the glacier , perish , disappear , and flowT away as the water of the glacier stream .

