400 Prof. J. Larmor .
[ June 29 , The value of 0*0077 gramme that we have adopted for assimilation in the open air when the C02-pressure is the limiting factor , was obtained by Brown and Morris by this method , and is therefore subject to suspicion and is probably too high .
The new data for arriving at this most important value , brought forward by Brown and Escombe , and based on measuring the intake of C02by a leaf in a glass chamber in a rapid current of ordinary air , show a very wide range of variation even for the leaves of a single species ( 0*0016 to 0 0047 gramme per 50 sq .
cm .
for Polygonum Weyrichii ) .
Primarily , the degree to which the stomata are open and , secondarily , the magnitude of the concurrent respiratory production of-C02 , would seem to be the important factors in disturbing the inflow of C02 from without .
The highest value thus arrived at is 0*0047 for a detached leaf , and as attached leaves with stomata less widely open give smaller values , the number adopted by us may be much too high .
This would increase the waste of photosynthetic radiation in Nature , but the information at present available is not sufficient to allow us to readjust the table on p. 455 ] .
Note on the Mechanics of the Ascent of Sap Trees .
By Professor J. Larmou , Sec. R.S. ( Received June 29 , 1905 .
) The following remarks , relating to one of the most powerful and universal of the mechanical operations of organic nature , are based mainly on the numerous experimental results reported in Dr. A. J. Ewart 's recent memoir.* Their chief object is to assert the view that we are not compelled to suppose the sap , in the column of vessels through which it rises , to be subject to the great actual pressure , amounting in high trees to many atmospheres , that is sometimes postulated .
It is hardly necessary to remark that the problem of the rise of sap is one of mechanics , in so far as concerns the mode of the flow and the propelling power .
Contrary to the view above referred to , it seems not unreasonable to consider that the weight of the sap in each vessel is sustained in the main by the walls and base of that vessel , instead of .
being transmitted through its osmotically porous base to the vessels beneath it , and thus accumulated as hydrostatic pressure .
We could in fact imagine , diagrammatically ( as happens in ordinary osmotic arrangements ) a vertical column of vessels , each provided , say , with a short vertical side-tube communicating with the open air , in which the pressure is adjusted from moment to moment , and yet such that the sap slowly travels by transpiration from each vessel to the one next above , * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 74 , p. 554 ; 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 198 , p. 41 .
1905 .
] Mechanics of the Ascent of Sap in Trees .
461 through the porous partitions between them ; provided there is an upward osmotic gradient , i.e. , if the dissolved substances are maintained in greater concentration in the higher vessels* This difference of density must be great enough , between adjacent vessels , to introduce osmotic pressure in excess of that required to balance the head of fluid in the length of the upper one , into which the water has to force its way .
Thus , in comparing vessels at different levels , the sap must be more concentrated in the upper ones by amounts corresponding to osmotic .pressure more than counteracting the total head due to difference of levels , in order that it may be able to rise .
As osmotic pressure is comparable with gaseous pressure for the same density of the molecules of the dissolved substance , the concentration required on this view is considerable , though not very great .
Such a steady gradient of concentration could apparently , on the whole , become self-adjusting , through assistance from the vital stimuli of the plant ; for concentration in the upper vessels is promoted by evaporation .
Yet pressures in excess or defect of the normal atmospheric amount might at times accumulate locally , the latter giving rise to the bubbles observed in the vessels , through release of dissolved gases .
It may be that this assumes too much concentration of dissolved material in the sap , as it exists inside the vessels of the stem , to agree with fact .
In that case the capillary suction exerted from the nearest leaf surface might be brought into requisition , after the manner of Dixon and Joly , to assist in drawing off the excess of water from the vessels .
The aim proposed in this note is not to explain how things happen , which is a matter for observation and experiment , but merely to support the position that nothing abnormal from the passive mechanical point of view need be involved in this or other vital phenomena .
* Thus in an ordinary osmotic experiment \#166 ; with a U -tube , the percolation of water through the plug gradually produces a difference of hydrostatic pressure on its two faces , which is sustained by the fixity of the plug itself , but would be at once neutralised if the plug were free to slide in the tube .
This increase of volume of the salt-solution , by the percolation of pure water into it , is on the va n't Hoff analogy correlated with the free expansion of the molecules constituting a gas .
It goes on with diminished speed under opposing pressure , until a definite neutralising pressure is reached , inaptly called the osmotic pressure of the molecules of the solute , which just stops it , while higher pressures would reverse it .
The stoppage is due to the establishment of a balance between the amounts of water percolating one way under osmotic attraction , and the opposite way under hydrostatic pressure .
The pressure established , .
, in an organic cell immersed in salt-solution , is thus really the reaction which is set up against the osmotic process .
That process itself is perhaps more directly and intelligibly described as the play of osmotic affinity or attraction , even though it must be counted as of the same nature as the affinity 'f a gas for a vacuum .
Cf .
' Proc. Catnb .
Phil. Soc. , ' January , 1897 , or Whetham3s " Theory of Solution , " p. 109 .
462 On the Mechanics of the Ascent of Sap in Trees .
As regards estimating the amount of flow , at first sight it may not appear obvious , a priori , that the transpiration through a porous partition or membrane , due to osmotic gradient , is equal or even comparable in amount to what would be produced , with pure water , by a hydrostatic pressure-head equal to the difference of the osmotic pressures on the two faces of the partition .
But more exact consideration shows that on the contrary osmotic pressure is defined by this very equality ; * it is that pressure-difference which would produce such an opposite percolation of water as would just balance the direct percolation due to the osmotic attraction of the salt solution .
It would , however , appear that the great .resistance to flow offered by what botanists call Jamin-tubes , viz. , thin liquid columns containing and carrying along numerous broad air-bubbles , is conditioned mainly by the viscosity of the fluid , and involves only indirectly the surface-tension of the bubbles .
In fact the resistance to flow may be expected to remain much the same if each bubble were replaced by a flat solid disc , nearly but not quite fitting the tube .
Its high value arises from the circumstance that the mass of liquid between two discs moves on nearly as a solid block when the flow is steady , so that the viscous sliding has to take place in a thin layer close to the wall of the tube , and is on that account the more intense , and the friction against the tube the greater .
The increased curvature of the upper capillary meniscus of the bubble is thus merely a gauge of the greater intensity of the viscous resistance instead of its cause , and modification of the surface-tension cannot be involved as a propelling power .
The experimental numbers given by Dr. Ewart show that , even where the vessels are largely occupied by bubbles , the greater part of the resistance to active transpiration still resides in the partitions between them .
If the osmotic gradient , assisted possibly by capillary pull at the leaf-orifices , is insufficient to direct a current of transpiration upward , capillary alterations inside the vessels , arising from vitally controlled emission and absorption of material from the walls , cannot be invoked to assist : rather it must be osmotic alterations from one vessel to the next , of , so to speak , a peristaltic character , that might thus come into play .
But any such alteration ( of either kind ) will involve local supply of energy .
Is there a sufficient fund of energy , latent in the stem , to provide permanently the motive power for the elevation of the sap ?
In what form could this energy get transported there ?
The energies of the plant-economy come from the sunlight absorbed by the leaves .
The natural view would appear to be that the work required to lift the sap is exerted at the place where the energy is received , and that it operates through extrusion of water by evaporative processes working * See preceding footnote .
On the Cytology of Apogamy and 463 against the osmotic attraction of the dissolved salts ; while the maintenance of equilibrium along the vessels of the balanced osmotic column , with its semi-permeable partitions , demands that an equal amount of water must rise spontaneously to take the place of what is thus removed .
The subject might , perhaps , be further elucidated by observation of the manner in which the flow is first established at the beginning of the season , or possibly by experiments on the rate at which water would be absorbed by a wounded stem high above the ground .
On the Cytology of Apogamy and .\#151 ; II .
Preliminary Note on Apospory .
By Miss L. Digby .
( Communicated by Professor J. B. Farmer , F.R.S. Received April 15 , \#151 ; Read May 11 , 1905 .
) Apospory is the direct vegetative process which leads from the sporophyte to the gametophyte without the intervention of spores .
This phenomenon has for a long time been known to occur in mosses* and ferns , f and several writers have described its morphological characters , but its cytological history has hitherto remained unrecorded .
In a previous notej the cellular features of apogamy were briefly described , and it is here proposed to treat the problem of apospory in a similar manner .
The following remarks are limited to the study of apospory in Nephrodium pseudo-mas Rich .
var .
cristata apospora , Druery , S but it is of interest to note that within the limits of a ( probably ) single , but highly variable species , almost all grades of apospory and * N. Pringsheim , " Vegetative Sprossung der Moosfruchte , ' ' ' Monatsb .
Akad .
Wise .
, Berlin , ' July 10 , 1876 , pp. 425 to 429 .
E. Stahl , " Ueber kiinstlich hervorgerufene Protonema-bildung an dem Sporogonium der Laubmoose , " ' Bot. Zeitg .
, ' vol. 34 , 1876 , pp. 689 to 695 .
N. Pringsheim , " Ueber Sprossung der Moosfruchte und den Generationwechsel der Thallophyten , " ' Jahrb .
fiir wiss .
Bot. , ' vol. 11 , 1878 , pp. 1 to 46 .
t C. T. Druery , " Observations on a Singular Mode of Development in the Lady Fern { Atkyrium Filix-fcemina ) , " 'Jour .
Linn. Soc. Bot. , ' vol. 21 , 1884 , pp. 354 to 358 and Pp .
358 to 360 .
E. O. Bower , " Apospory and Allied Phenomena , " ' Trans. Linn. Soc. Bot. , ' 2nd series , VoL 2 , Part 14 , July , 1887 , pp. 301 to 326 .
t J. B. Farmer , J. E. S. Moore , and L. Digby , " Preliminary Note on Apogamy , " Bny .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 71 , 1903 , pp. 453 to 457 .
S See " Lastrea pseudo-mas var .
cristata a , " C. T. Druery , 'Book of British Perns , ' p. 99 .
VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; B. 2 I

