An Account of some Books .
I. Joh. Sig. Elsholtii , Elector .
Brandenburg Medici , CLYSMATICA NOV A , sive Ratio in venam sectam Medicamenta immittendi .
COLONI AE BRANDEBURGIC AE .
1667 .
in 8o .
THe Title-page of this Book , but very lately come into England , shows this to be the second Edition : and the Author in the Conclusion of it tells the Reader , that the first Edition thereof was public A. 1665 .
at which time he affirms there had been nothing printed ( for ought he knew ) either by English , French , or Italians , of this argument .
To which we shall here say nothing , but refer the Candid Reader to what hath been said already ( by way of vindicating the Invention , both of Infusing Medical Liquors , and of Transfusing Blood , from usurpation ) pation ) in several of these Tracts , as Numb. 7 .
p. 128 .
Numb. 20 .
353 Numb. 22 .
p. 385 .
Numb. 35 .
p. 677 , 678 , 679 , 680 , 681 .
Mean time , this Author , having collected in this little Tract divers of the Experiments , made in England , France , and Italy , concerning these Inventions ( of which we might have a far greater stock , and that a very considerable one , as to that of Infusion , if our Learned and Candid Doctor Timothy Clark , one of his Majesties Physicians in Ordinary , and a Fellow of the R. Society , could but find the leisure of digesting for the Press what he hath done on this subject many years ago ) discourses of the particular Diseases , wherein this Infusing Chirurgery hath been used with success , and suggests those , to which it might be further extended with benefit .
II .
Nicolai Hobokeni ANATOMIASECUNDIN AE HUM AN AE , Ultrajecti A. 1669 .
in 8o .
THis Author , intending to inquire more narrowly into all the particulars concerning Humane Generation , premiseth these Observations , touching the Humane Secundine , lately made by himself , and accompanied with 15 accurate Schemes , drawn , ( as he faith ) by his own hand , and representing ; First , in a Female Faetus , the placenta uteri , together with the Membranes and String , on both sides , where the same respects the uterus as well as the faetus ; and more particularly the Membrane Amnios , severed from the placenta , and the Vessels running through the other Membrane , Chorion ; then , that portion of the string , wherein the laxeness , inequalities and contorsions of the Membrane , together with all the contained vessels in their proper scituation , are observed ; next , the Macula , appearing somewhat prominent in one of the Arteries , by which may easily be found the passage of the Blood to the Placenta , and its difficult regress towards the Navil of the Faetus ; more-over , the interior substance of the placenta , and all the ramifications of the Veins and Arteries .
Secondly , in a Male-faetus , a review of all the former particulars , together with several differences from that of the Female .
To these Observations is subjoyn 'd a Collection of Letters , written by this Author to divers Learned men , touching Generation , together with their Answers : In which Collection it is intimated , that the Curious may now expect from Dr. Dimerbroeck , the famous Physician of Utrecht , his Anatomy , which by reason of his great practise , and a multitude of other avocations hath been hitherto retarded .
II I. Joh. Ludov .
Gansii M. D. CORALLIORUMHIST OR I A. Francofurti A. 1669 .
in 12o .
IN this History the Author affirms to have digested both what ha.h been deliver d of Corals , and what himself hath observed and try d of that curious product of Nature , taken notice of by the Poet , 4 .
Metam .
Sic &amp; Coralium , quo primum contigit auras Tempore , durescit , mollis fuit herba sub undis .
Which affirmation this Author looks upon as poetical indeed and fictitious , asserting , that Coral is originally a Mineral , and a kind of precious Stone , Corals being no berries petrified , but pieces filed off and turned , from the trunk , round and polished .
His opinion therefore is , that Coral is formed out of a glutinous Juice , which being turn d into Stone by a falt , abounding in it , rises up in the form of a Shrub , the salt being the cause , that makes Plants spread into branches .
The places of the production of Coral he names to be , the Red Sea ( where they are darkish , ) the Persian Gulf , the Sicilian and Neapolitan shore .
Some of them are Red , others White , others Blackish .
To this Account he annexes various Preparations made of them ; as also divers Solutions , of which he delivers one as an excellent dissolvent both of Corals and Pearls , made of very well rectifi 'd spirit of Salt , digested , and freed of its Corrosiveness , and then mixed with good spirit of Wine distilled and brought over the Alembic .
May-Dew is also much commended by him for a fit Menstruum , if the spirits distilled from it be joined with its own Salt .
He treats also of the Magisteries , Extract , Oil , Tincture , Quintessence , Flowers ; as also of the Virtues of Corals , and of the way of making

