1871 .
] On the Successive Polarization of Light .
381 zontal position .
The curling round of the scapula-rod is described , and the outgrowth from the rod of plates of bone bounded by the acromial , glenoid , and coracoid borders .
The relations of the sterno-mastoid , trapezius , and levator anguli scapulae muscles are referred to .
The growth of the glenoid cavity outwards from the acromion and coracoid is noticed at about the eleventh week , at which period the scapula has acquired its chief permanent characters .
March 23 , 1871 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " Experiments on the Successive Polarization of Light ; with the description of a new Polarizing Apparatus .
" By Sir Charles Wheatstone , E.R.S. Received Feb. 2 , 1871 .
I. The term successive polarization was applied by Biot to denote the effects produced when a ray of polarized light is transmitted through a plate of reck\#151 ; crystal cut perpendicularly to the axis , or through limited depths of certain liquids .
In these cases the plane of polarization is found to be changed on emergence , and differently for each homogeneous ray ; so that , when white light is employed , on turning the analyzer round continuously in one direction different colours successively appear , rising or falling in the scale according to the nature of the substance .
If , while the analyzer is turned from left to right , the tints ascend ( i. e. follow the order B , O , Y , G , B , P , Y ) , the substance is said to exhibit right-handed successive polarization , but if the tints descend , the successive polarization is said to be left-handed .
These phenomena were satisfactorily explained by Fresnel in the following way .
The incident polarized ray , instead of resolving itself into two plane-polarized rays at right angles to each other , as in the ordinary cases of dipolarization , resolves itself in these instances into two circularly polarized rays , one right-handed the other left-handed , which are transmitted with different velocities ; each homogeneous ray , thus resolved into two opposite circularly polarized pencils , on emergence composes a ray polarized in a single plane , the deviation of which from the primitive plane of polarization depends on the difference of phase of the two circularly polarized rays on emergence .
The rotation of the planes of polarization is from left to right , or from right to left , according to whether the right-handed or left-handed circular rays are transmitted with the greater velocity .
II .
The term dipolarization , proposed by Dr. Whewell to express the VOL. XIX .
2 G Sir C. Wheatstone on the [ Mar. 23 , bifurcation which a ray of polarized light suffers when it is transmitted through a crystallized plate , is a very appropriate one ; but as there are different kinds of such separation , we may designate plane dipolarization the resolution into two plane-polarized rays at right angles to each other , and circular dipolarizatiou the resolution into two circularly polarized rays , one right-handed , the other left-handed .
In like manner the term elliptic dipolarization may be employed to represent the phenomena shown by transmitting a polarized ray through a plate of rock-crystal obliquely to the axis .
The object of the present communication is to make known another means of producing successive polarization , both right-handed and left-handed , which , equally with the well-known modes , may be proved to arise from the interference of two opposite systems of circularly polarized rays .
III .
The polarizing-apparatus which I have employed for the experiments I am about to detail is represented by PI .
IV .
A plate of black glass , G , is fixed at an angle of 3 ' to the horizon .
The film to be examined is to be placed on a diaphragm , D , so that the light reflected at the polarizing-angle from the glass plate shall pass through it at right angles , and , after reflection at an angle of 18 ' from the surface of a polished silver plate S , shall proceed vertically upwards .
N is a Nicol 's prism , or any other analyzer , placed in the path of the second reflection .
The diaphragm is furnished with a ring , moveable in its own plane , by which the crystallized plate to be examined may be placed in any azimuth .
C is a small moveable stand , by means of which the film to be examined may be placed in any azimuth and at any inclination ; for the usual experiments this is removed .
If a lamina of quartz cut parallel to the axis , and sufficiently thin to show the colours of polarized light , be placed upon the diaphragm so that its principal section ( i. e. the section containing the axis ) shall be 45c to the left of the plane of reflection , on turning the analyzer from left to right , instead of the alternation of two complementary colours at each quadrant , which appear in the ordinary polarizing apparatus , the phenomena of successive polarization , exactly similar to those exhibited in the ordinary apparatus by a plate of quartz cut perpendicular to the axis , will be exhibited ; the colours follow in the order R , O , T , G , B , P , or , in other words , ascend as in the case of a right-lianded plate of quartz cut perpendicularly to the axis .
If the lamina be now either inverted , or turned in its own plane 90 ' , so that the principal section shall be 45 ' to the right of the plane of reflection , the succession of the colours will be reversed , while the analyzer moves in the same direction as befoie , presenting the same phenomena as a left-handed plate of quartz cut per pendicularly to the axis .
Quartz is a positive doubly refracting crystal , and in it consequently the ordinary index of refraction is smaller than the 1871 .
] Successive Polarization of Light .
extraordinary index .
But if we take a lamina of a negative crystal , in which the extraordinary index is the least , as a film of Iceland spar split parallel to one of its natural cleavages , the phenomena are the reverse of those exhibited by quartz : when the principal section is on the left of the plane of reflection the colours descend , and when it is on the right of the same plane the colours ascend , the analyzer being turned from left to right .
It has been determined that the ordinary ray , both in positive and negative crystals , is polarized in the principal section , while the extraordinary ray is polarized in the section perpendicular thereto .
It is also established that the index of refraction is inversely as the velocity of transmission .
It follows from the above experimental results , therefore , that when the resolved ray whose plane of polarization is to the left of the plane of reflection is the quickest the successive polarization is right-handed , and when it is the slowest the successive polarization is left-handed\#151 ; in the order R , O , Y , G , B , P , V , and in the second case in the reversed order .
The rule thus determined is equally applicable to laminae of biaxal crystals .
As selenite ( sulphate of lime ) is an easily procurable crystal , and readily cleavable into thin laminae capable of showing the colours of polarized light , it is most frequently employed in experiments on chromatic polarization .
The laminae into which this substance most readily splits , contain in their planes the two optic axes ; polarized light transmitted through such laminae is resolved in two rectangular directions , which respectively bisect the angles formed by the two optic axes : the line which bisects the smallest angle is called the intermediate section ; and the line perpendicular thereto which bisects the supplementary angle is called the supplementary section .
These definitions being premised , if a film of selenite is placed on the diaphragm with its intermediate section to the left of the plane of reflection , the successive polarization is direct or right-handed ; if , on the contrary , it is placed to the right of that plane , the successive polarization is left-handed .
The ray polarized in the intermediate section is therefore the most retarded ; and as that section is considered to be equivalent to a single optic axis , the crystal is positive .
In one kind of mica the optic axes are in a plane perpendicular to the laminse .
They are inclined 22\ ' on each side the perpendicular within the crystal , but , owing to the refraction , are seen respectively at an angle of 35''3 therefrom .
The principal section is that which contains the two optic axes .
If the film is placed on the diaphragm with its principal section inclined 45 ' to the left of the plane of reflection , the successive polarization is right-handed .
The ray , therefore , polarized in the section which contains the optic axes is the one transmitted with the greatest velocity .
Films of uniaxal crystals , whether positive or negative , and of biaxal Sir C. Wheatstone on the [ Mfiri 23 ; crystals , all agree therefore in this respectthat if the plane'of polarization of the quickest ray is to the left of the plane of reflection , the successive polarization is right-handed when the analyzer moves from left to right ; and if it is to the right of the plane of reflection , other circumstances remaining the same , the successive polarization is left-handed .
It must be taken into consideration that the principal section of the film is inverted in the reflected image ; so that if the plane of polarization of the quickest ray in the film is to the left of the plane of reflection , it is to the right of that plane in the reflected image .
IV .
It may not be uninteresting to state a few obvious consequences of this successive polarization in doubly refracting laminae , right-handed and left-handed according to the position of the plane of polarization of the quickest ray .
They are very striking as experimental results , and will serve to impress the facts more vividly on the memory .
1 .
A film of uniform thickness being placed on the diaphragm with its principal section 45 ' on either side the plane of reflection , when the analyzer is at 0 ' or 90 ' the colour of the film remains unchanged , whether the film be turned in its own plane 90 ' , or be turned over so that the back shall become the front surface ; but if the analyzer be fixed at 45 ' , 135'* 225 ' , or 315 ' , complementary colours will appear when the film is inverted from back to front , or rotated in its own plane either way 90 ' .
2 .
If a uniform film be cut across and the divided portions be again placed together , after inverting one of them , a compound film ( fig. 4 ) is formed , which , when placed on the diaphragm , exhibits simultaneously both right-handed and left-handed successive polarization .
When the analyzer is at 0 ' or 90 ' the colour of the entire film is uniform ; as it is turned round the tints of one portion ascend , while those.of the other descend ; and when the analyzer is at 45 ' or n90'+45 ' , they exhibit complementary colours .
3 .
A film increasing in thickness from one edge to the other is well suited to exhibit at one glance the phenomena due to films of various thicknesses .
It is well known that such a film placed between a polarizer and an analyzer will show , when the two planes are parallel or perpendicular to each other , and the principal section of the film is intermediate to these two planes , a series of parallel coloured bands , the order of the colours in each band from the thick towards the thin edge being that of their refrangibilities , or R , O , Y , G , B , P , V. The bands seen when the planes are perpendicular are intermediate in position to those seen when the planes are parallel ; on turning round the analyzer these two systems of bands alternately appear at each quadrant , while in the intermediate positions they entirely disappear .
Now let us attend to the appearances of these bauds , when the wedge-form film is placed on the diaphragm of the instrument , fig. 1 .
As the 1871 .
] Successive Polarization of Light .
385 analyzer is moved round , the bands advance toward or recede from the thin edge of the wedge without any changes occurring in the colours or intensity of the light , the same tint occupying the same place at every half revolution of the analyzer .
If the bands advance toward the thin edge of the wedge , the successive polarization of each point is left-handed ; and if they recede from it the succession of colours is right-handed ; every circumstance , therefore , that with respect to a uniform film changes right-handed into left-handed successive polarization , in a wedge of the same substance transforms receding into advancing bands , and vice versa .
These phenomena are also beautifully shown by concave or convex films of selenite or rock-crystal , which exhibit concentric rings contracting or expanding in accordance with the conditions previously explained .
4 .
Few experiments in physical optics are so beautiful and striking as the elegant pictures formed by cementing laminae of selenite of different thicknesses ( varying from inni'ti1 ' 7\gt ; V 'f an inch ) between two plates of glass .
Invisible under ordinary circumstances , they exhibit , when examined in the usual polarizing-apparatus , the most brilliant colours , which are complementary to each other in the two rectangular positions of the analyzer .
Regarded in the instrument , fig. 1 , the appearances are still more beautiful ; for , instead of a single transition , each colour in the picture is successively replaced by every other colour .
In preparing such pictures it is necessary to pay attention to the direction of the principal section of each lamina when different pieces of the same thickness are to be combined together to form a surface having the same uniform tint ; otherwise in the intermediate transitions the colours will be irregularly disposed .
5 .
A plate of rock-crystal cut perpendicular to the axis loses its successive polarization , and behaves exactly as an ordinary crystallized film through which rectilinear polarized light is transmitted .
6 .
A thick plate of unannealed glass undergoes a series of regular transformations , the principal phases of which are shown , fig. 5 .
y. The phenomena of successive or rotatory polarization I have experimentally demonstrated admit of a very simple explanation .
The polarized light incident on the crystallized plate is resolved into two portions of equal intensity , polarized at right angles to each other , one in the principal section , the other perpendicular thereto .
These resolved portions , when they fall on the silver plate , have their planes of polarization each at an azimuth of 45 ' , one to the right , the other to the left of the plane of reflection .
These are again resolved in the plane of reflection and the plane perpendicular thereto , and are , in consequence of the unequal retardation , which in silver at an angle of 72 ' amounts to a quarter of an undulation , converted into circularly polarized beams , one right-handed , the other left-handed .
Sir C. Wheatstone on the [ Mar. 23 , The various homogeneous rays being accelerated differently in their transmission through the two sections of the crystallized plate , this difference is preserved after reflection from the silver plate , and the oppositely circularly polarized beams are reflected with the same difference of phase as the two plane-polarized rays are when emerging from the crystallized lamina .
The composition of two circular waves , one right-handed , the other left-handed , gives for resultant a plane wave the azimuth of which varies with the difference of phase of the two components .
When the plane of polarization does not lie equally between the two rectangular sections of the laminae , these still remaining 45 ' from the plane of reflection of the silver plate , the beam is resolved into two unequal portions , the amplitudes of which are as sin a to cos a. Each therefore gives rise to a circular undulation of different amplitude .
The resultant of two opposite circular undulations of different amplitudes is an ellipse of constant form , the axes of which vary in position according to the difference of phase .
The same phenomena of successive polarization are therefore exhibited , in whatever azimuth the lamina is turned in its own plane ; but the tints become fainter and fainter until ultimately , when the principal or perpendicular section is parallel to the plane of reflection of the polarizing plate , all colour disappears .
VI .
By means of the phenomena of successive polarization it is easy to determine which is the thicker of two films of the same crystalline substance .
Place one of the films on the diaphragm ( ) of the instrument ( fig. lo ) in the position to show , say , right-handed polarization , then cross it with the other film ; if the former be the thicker , the successive polarization will be still right-handed ; if both be equal there will be no polarization ; and if the crossed film be the thicker , the successive polarization will be left-handed .
In this manner a series of films may be readily arranged in their proper order in the scale of tints .
VII .
In the experiments I have previously described the planes of re-flection of the polarizing mirror and of the silver plate were coincident some of the results obtained when the azimuth of the plane of reflection ot the silver plate is changed are interesting .
,11 e I will confine my attention here to what takes place when the plane ot reflection of the silver plate is 45 ' from that of the polarizing reflector .
When the principal sections of the film are parallel and perpendicular to the plane of reflection of the polarizing mirror , as the whole of the polarized light passes through one of the sections , no interference can take place , and no colour will be seen , whatever be the position of th RnWhen the principal sections of the film are parallel and perpendicular 1871 .
] Successive Polarization of Light .
387 to the plane of reflection of the silver plate , they are 45 ' from the plane of reflection of the polarizing mirror .
The polarized ray is then resolved into two components polarized at right angles to each other ; one component is polarized in the plane of reflection of the silver plate , the other perpendicular thereto ; and one is retarded upon the other by a quarter of an undulation .
When the analyzer is at 0 ' or 90 ' no colours are seen , because there is no interference ; but when it is placed at 45 ' or 135 ' , interference takes place , and the same colour is seen as if light circularly polarized had been passed through the film .
The bisected and inverted film ( fig. 4 ) shows simultaneously the two complementary colours .
But when the film is placed with one of its principal sections 22| ' from the plane of reflection of the polarizing mirror , on turning round the analyzer the appearances of successive polarization are reproduced exactly as when the planes of reflection of the silver plate and of the polarizing mirror coincide .
In this case the components of the light oppositely polarized in the two sections are unequal , being as cos 22S ' to sin 22| ' ; these components respectively fall 22| ' from the plane of reflection of the silver plate and from the perpendicular plane , and are each resolved in the same proportion in these two planes .
The weak component of the first , and the strong component of the second , are resolved into the normal plane , while the strong component of the first and the weak component of the second are resolved into the perpendicular plane .
VIII .
As bearing intimately on the subject of this paper , I will here quote a passage from a memoir presented by Fresnel to the French Academy of Sciences in 1817 , and published , in abstract , in the * Annals de Chimie , ' t. xxviii .
1825 :\#151 ; " If a thin crystallized plate be placed between two parallelopipeds of glass crossed at right angles , in each of which the light previously polarized undergoes two total reflections at the incidence of 54| ' , first before its entrance into the plate ( which we suppose perpendicular to the rays ) , and subsequently after its emergence , and if , besides , the plate be turned so that its axis makes an angle of 45 ' with the two planes of double reflection , this system will present the optical properties of plates of rock-crystal perpendicular to the axis , and of liquids which colour polarized light .
When the principal section of the rhomboid with which the emergent light is analyzed is turned round , the two images will gradually change colour , instead of experiencing only simple variations in the vividness of their tints , as occurs in the ordinary case of thin crystallized plates ; besides , the nature of these colours depends only on the respective inclination of the primitive plane of polarization and the principal section of the rhomboid\#151 ; that is to say , of the two extreme planes of polarization ; thus , when this angle remains constant , the system of the crystallized On the Successive Polarization of Light .
[ Mar. 23 , plate and the two parallelopipeds may be turned round the transmitted pencil without changing the colour of the images .
It is this analogy between the optical properties of this little apparatus and those of plates of rock-crystal perpendicular to the axis which enabled M. Fresnel to foresee the peculiar characters of double refraction that rock-crystal exerts on rays parallel to the axis .
" It does not appear that Fresnel , in any of his published memoirs , has given any further modifications of this experiment , the importance of which has been almost entirely overlooked in elementary treatises on light .
He does not seem to have remarked that similar phenomena of successive polarization are exhibited when the light incident on the crystallized plate is plane-polarized , nor that the order of the succession of the colours depends on the position of the principal section with respect to the plane of polarization .
These circumstances are indeed necessarily included in the beautiful theory established by this eminent philosopher ; but I am not aware that they have hitherto been specifically deduced or experimentally shown .
IX .
The apparatus ( fig. 1 ) affords also the means of obtaining large surfaces of uncoloured or coloured light in every state of polarization\#151 ; rectilinear , elliptical , or circular .
It is for this purpose much more convenient than a Fresnel 's rhomb , with which but a very small field of view can be obtained .
It must , however , be borne in mind that the circular and elliptical undulations are inverted in the two methods : in the former case they undergo only a single , in the latter case a double reflection .
For the experiments which follow , the crystallized plate must be placed on the diaphragm E between the silver plate and the analyzer , instead of , as in the preceding experiments , between the polarizer and the silver plate .
By means of a moving ring within the graduated circle D the silver plate is caused to turn round the reflected ray , so that , while the plane of polarization of the ray remains always in the plane of reflection of the glass plate , it may assume every azimuthal position with respect to the plane of reflection of the silver plate .
The film to be examined and the analyzer move consentaneously with the silver plate , while the polarizing mirror remains fixed .
In the normal position of the instrument the ray polarized by the mirror is reflected unaltered by the silver plate ; but when the ring is turned to 45 ' , 135 ' , 225 ' , or 315 ' , the plane of polarization of the ray falls 45 ' on one side of the plane of reflection of the silver plate , and the ray is resolved into two others , polarized respectively in the plane ot reflection and the perpendicular plane , one of which is retarded on the other b } a quarter of an undulation , and consequently gives rise to a circular ia\ , which is right-handed or left-handed according to whether the ring is turned 1871 .
] On a Decennial Variation of Temperature at the Cape .
3811 45 ' and 225 ' or 135 ' and 315 ' .
When the ring is turned so as to place the plane of polarization in any intermediate position between those producing rectilinear and circular light , elliptical light is obtained , on account of the unequal resolution of the ray into its two rectangular components .
Turning the ring of the graduated diaphragm from left to right when : the crystallized film is between the silver plate and the analyzer , occasions the same succession of colours for the same angular rotation as rotating the analyzer from right to left when the instrument is in its normal posi-\#187 ; tion and the film is between the polarizer and the silver plate .
X. To arrange the apparatus for the ordinary experiments of plane-polarized light without the intervention of the silver plate , all that is necessary is to remove the silver plate from the frame F , and to substitute for it a plate of black glass , which must be fixed at the proper polarizing-angle .
To convert it into a Norrenberg 's polarizer , a silvered mirror must be laid horizontal at H , and the instrument straightened , as shown at fig. 3 , so .
that a line perpendicular to the mirror shall correspond with the line of sight .
The silver plate must be removed from the frame F , and a plate of transparent glass substituted for it , which must be so ipclined that the light falling upon it shall be reflected at the polarizing-angle perpendicu- : larly toward the horizontal mirror .
The eye will receive the polarized ray reflected from the mirror ; and the polarized ray will have passed , ' before it reaches the eye , twice through a crystallized plate placed between the mirror and the polarizer .
The result is the same as if , in the ordinary apparatus , the polarized ray had passed through a plate of double the thickness .
Fig. 2 shows the addition to the apparatus when the coloured rings of crystals are to be examined by light circularly or elliptically polarized : a is the optical tube containing the lenses ( which require no particular explanation ) , and b the condenser , over which the plate is to be placed .
II .
" On an approximately Decennial Variation of the Temperature at the Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope between the years 1841 and 1870 , viewed in connexion with the Variation of the Solar Spots .
" By E. J. Stone , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal at the Cape of Good Hope .
In a Letter to the President .
Received February 21 , 1871 .
Royal Observatory , Cape of Good Hope , Jan. 17,1871 .
Dear Sir , \#151 ; I enclose a curve of the variation of the annual mean temperature at the Cape deduced from observations extending from 1841 to 1870 inclusive .
I have carefully examined the zero-points of all the ther-

