248 Vesuvius and Meteorological Phenomena .
[ Mar. 18 , March 18 , 1886 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " The Relationship of the Activity of Vesuvius to Certain Meteorological and Astronomical Phenomena .
" By Dr. H. , T. Johnston-Lavis .
Communicated by Professor Judd , P.R.S. Received February 26 , 1886 .
( Abstract ) .
The determination of the relations , if any such exist , between volcanic activity and certain astronomical or meteorological phenomena , cannot fail to throw much light upon the vexed question of the solid or liquid condition of the earth 's interior .
M. Perrey , as the result of his careful catalogue of earthquake phenomena , believed himself to have proved that these could be shown to have certain maxima and minima , which correspond with positions of the moon in relation to the earth and sun ; there are many considerations which point to the conclusion that great and sudden changes in barometric pressure may be followed by outbursts of volcanic violence ; and , finally , if the eruptions of volcanoes , as many geologists believe , are due to water percolating from the surface to a heated magma , rainfall must have no inconsiderable influence in determining the periods of their occurrence .
The author of the paper has made use of the opportunity of a residence in the neighbourhood of Vesuvius , to chronicle , according to a scale devised by himself , the varying quantities of vapour emitted from the crater during its usual quiet and continued ( Strombolian ) stage of eruption ; the period of every new outflow of lava , or of any increase in the flow of lava was also noted .
These observations having been carried on daily for a period of one year and nine months \#151 ; from October , 1883 , to June , 1885\#151 ; were recorded in tabular form side by side with the moon 's quadratures and position in her orbit ; with these are also arranged the daily records of the height of the 1886 .
] On connecting and disconnecting a Receiver .
barometer , and the amount of rainfall supplied to the author by Professor Brioschi of the Capodimonte Observatory .
Prom the discussion of these tables , it is concluded by the author that there is a striking relationship between the curves which mark sadden changes in atmospheric pressure and those which indicate distinct variations in the volcanic activity .
As regards the relation of changes in volcanic activity with the lunar positions , the author speaks with greater doubt , the period over which the observations have extended being insufficient to justify definite conclusions ; but he believes that his observations point to distinct tidal influences as affecting the liquid magma beneath the volcano .
II .
" On an Apparatus for connecting and disconnecting a Receiver under Exhaustion by a Mercurial Pump .
" By J. T. Bottomley , M.A. , F.R.S.E. Communicated by Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 1 , 1886 .
In experimental work with vacua , and especially with the high vacua given by the Sprengel pump , a connecting tap has often been much wished for which would enable the experimenter to remove a piece of apparatus from the pump for examination or preliminary experiment , and afterwards to reapply it to the pump without discharging the vacuum .
So far as I am aware nothing satisfactory has hitherto been suggested .
The ground glass stopcocks now made by some of the German and English glass workers are undoubtedly very highly finished ; but sooner or later , even with the best of them , the air begins to work its way round the grinding marks , in spite of lubricants , and , worse than this , when the apparatus under exhaustion has been removed from the pump and gauges , there is no way of knowing whether or not the air is leaking in round the interstices of the ground glass stopcock .
To meet this difficulty , I have recently constructed a mercurial vacuum tap , which is certainly impervious to air , and which will , I think , be found to work easily and conveniently .
In constructing it I have taken advantage of a tap described by Mr. C. H. Gimingham ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " hlo .
176 , 1876 ) , by means of which apiece of apparatus may be disconnected from the pump without discharging the vacuum of the pump ; and thus by means of the complete tap , which I proceed to describe , the apparatus under experiment can be separated from the pump and replaced without either the pump or the apparatus being discharged .
The tap consists of three parts .
AB is a tube containing a glass float , of which the upper end is conical , and ground very carefully at

