1880 .
] The Clark Cell a Standard of Electromotive Force .
79 lines in this case are luminous on a fainter continuous background and are not particularly sharp , whilst the reflection spectrum consists of black lines sharply defined on a continuous spectrum .
The spectrum emitted by incandescent erbia is shown in fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 shows the characteristic lines in the spark spectrum of erbium , taken from a concentrated acid solution of erbic chloride , with a Leyden jar in a shunt circuit .
I have thought it advisable to give these five spectra of erbium , as they show how entirely different the phosphorescent spectrum is to any other spectrum given by this element .
IV .
" On the Clark Cell as a Standard of Electromotive Force .
" By the Lord Rayleigh , M.A. , D.C.L. , Sec. R.S. Received January 7 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) This paper , supplementary to that " On the Electrochemical Equivalent of Silver , and on the Absolute Electromotive Force of Clark Cells , " * gives the further history of the cells there spoken of , and discusses the relative advantages of various modes of preparation .
The greatest errors arise from the liquid failing to be saturated with zinc sulphate , in which case the electromotive force is too high .
The opposite error of super-saturation is met with in certain cases , especially when the cells have been heated during or after charging .
Experiments are detailed describing how cells originally supersaturated have been corrected , and how in others the electromotive force has been reduced by the occurrence of supersaturation consequent on heating .
If these errors be avoided , as may easily be done ; if the mercui'y be pure ( preferably distilled in vacuo ) , and if either the paste be originally neutralised ( with zinc carbonate ) , or a few weeks be allowed to elapse ( during which the solution is supposed to neutralise itself ) , the electromotive force appears to be trustworthy to ToVo part .
This conclusion is founded upon the comparison of a large number of cells prepared by the author and by other physicists , including Dr. Alder Wright , Mr. M. Evans , Dr. Fleming , Professor Forbes , and Mr. Threlfall .
As regards temperature coefficient , no important variation has been discovered in saturated cells , whether prepared by the author or by others .
In all cases we may take with abundant accuracy for ordinary applications\#151 ; E=l-435{1- 0-00077(^-15o ) } ; the temperature being reckoned in centigrade degrees .
For purposes of great delicacy it is advisable to protect the standards from large * " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 175 , 1884 .
80 The Clark Cell a Standard of Electromotive Force .
[ Jan. 21 , fluctuations of temperature .
Under favourable circumstances two cells will retain their relative values to xoJoo for weeks or months together .
Unless carefully sealed up , the cells lose liquid by exudation and evaporation , and then the electromotive force gradually falls .
Marine glue appears to afford a better protection than paraffine-wax , and there seems to be no reason why cells thus secured should not remain in good order for several years .
In cells of the H-construction ( S 29 of former paper ) the leg containing the amalgam ( but not the one containing pure mercury ) is liable to burst , apparently in consequence of a tendency to alloy with the platinum .
Protection with cement of the part of the platinum next the glass has been tried , but no decisive judgment as to the adequacy of this plan can as yet be given .
Recent cells , intended for solid zincs , have been made of a simplified pattern\#151 ; nothing more , in fact , than a small tube with a platinum wire sealed through its closed end .
The zincs are not recast , and the paste is prepared from ( unwashed ) mercurous sulphate rubbed up in a mortar with saturated solution of zinc sulphate and a little zinc carbonate .
A stock of paste may be prepared and retained for use in a bottle .
Experiments are described tending to prove that the irregularities observed during the first few weeks of the life of a cell prepared with acid materials , have their origin principally at the mercury electrode .
Cells prepared with dilute solutions have a lower temperature coefficient ( about O'00038 ) , but would be more difficult to use as standards whose value is to be inferred from the mode of preparation .
Details are given of H-cells charged with amalgams of zinc and mercury in both legs , without mercurous sulphate .
A very small proportion of zinc is sufficient to produce the maximum effect .
Pure mercury , neither alloyed with zinc nor in contact with mercurous sulphate , has an uncertain electromotive value .
Since the comparison of cells does not absolutely exclude a small general alteration of electromotive force with age , further determinations of the standard cell ( No. 1 ) have been effected by means of the silver voltameter .
The results\#151 ; Table XVIII .
E.M.F. of No. 1 at 15 ' C. Date .
in B.A. volts .
October , 1883 , to April , 1884 ... ... ... ... .
1 '4542 November , 1884 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1 '4540 August , 1885 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1'4537 are very satisfactory , and indicate a constancy sufficient for almost all practical purposes .
1886 .
] New Volcanic Island in the Pacific Ocean .
Finally , some comparisons are given between Clark cells and Daniells , with equi-dense solutions , both of Raoult 's pattern and of that described recently by Dr. Fleming .
Y. " Account of a new Volcanic Island in the Pacific Ocean .
" By Wilfred Rowell , H.B.M. Consul in Samoa .
In a letter to the Hydrographer of the Admiralty .
Received January 17 , 1886 .
Hydrographic Department , Admiralty , S. TV , Sir , January , 1886 .
I have the honour to forward to you a photograph and a copy of a letter received from H.M. Consul at Samoa , relating to a volcanic island recently formed by a submarine volcano , in the vicinity of the Friendly Group in the Pacific Ocean , which I think may be of interest to the Royal Society .
I also forward a chart of the locality showing the position of the new island .
It is unfortunate that , as the hydrographical knowledge of the vicinity is very imperfect , no information exists as to the depths from which this island has pushed its way .
( Signed ) W. J. L. Wharton , The Secretary , Royal Society .
Hydrographer .
( Enclosure .
) H.B.M. Consulate , Samoa , Sir , November 21 1885 .
I have the honour to report that whilst on a passage from the " Friendly " Islands to the " Navigators " Islands , on board the steam ship " Janet Nicoll , " we observed a newly-risen volcanic island .
I was informed in " Tongatabu " that the eruption was first remarked from that island ( a distance of over 40 miles ) on Tuesday , 13th of October .
We passed it on Sunday , the 8th of November , at a distance of about 1^ miles .
The following will be the approximate position by compass bearings :\#151 ; Peak of " Kao " Island over centre of " Tefoa " Island , north by east .
West end of " Honga Tonga " Island , south by east .
Centre of crater from ship west 11 miles .
The island appeared to be about two miles in length north by west and south by east , of about 200 feet in height , having a reef on the VOL. XL .
a

