Observations on the Variation , and on the Dip of the magnetic Needle , made at the Apartments of the Royal Society , between the Years 1786 and 1805 inclusive .
By Mr. George Gilpin .
Communicated by Henry Cavendish , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 19 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 385 .
] The instruments with which Mr. Gilpin 's observations on the variation , and on the dip of the magnetic needle were made , are the same as were used in former observations , and are described by Mr. Cavendish , in a paper printed in the 66th volume of the Philosophical Transactions .
But as the observations now communicated by Mr. Gilpin are the first that have been given since the compass was put up in the Society 's Apartments in Somerset Place , he has thought proper to describe very particularly its situation in the house , at the time the observations were made , and also the method he pursued to ascertain what allowances were proper to be made in the results of his observations .
After stating the circumstances above mentioned , Mr. Gilpin proceeds to the observations .
These are detailed in five tables , of which the following is a summary account .
Table 1 .
contains , in sixteen pages , the observations made on the variation , at various but stated times of the day , from September 1 , 1786 , to December 31 , 1787 .
It is so disposed , that the increase or decrease of the variation may be seen by mere inspection .
Table 2 .
contains the mean monthly variation for the times of the day stated in Table 1 , during the above-mentioned period of sixteen months .
Table 3 .
contains the mean monthly true variation , and mean monthly diurnal alteration of variation during the above period ; and also the mean monthly true variation , and mean monthly diurnal alteration of variation , for many months in each year , from 1786 to 1805 inclusive .
Table 4 .
contains the differences for twelve years ( viz. from 1793 to 1805 ) between the observations made at the times of the vernal and autumnal equinoxes , and summer and winter solstices .
From a mean of these , the variation appears to increase , or go westward , from the winter solstice to the vernal equinox 0 ' 80 ; and diminishes , or goes eastward , from the vernal equinox to the summer solstice 1 '43 ; it increases again , from the summer solstice to the autumnal equinox 2'`43 ; and continues nearly the same , only decreasing 0 ' 14 from the said equinox to the winter solstice .
Table 5 .
contains the dip of the magnetic needle from the year 1786 to 1805 .
During the first sixteen months the dip was observed as frequently as the variation ; but as there did not appear to be any diurnal alteration in the dip , it has been thought sufficient to insert the mean for each month .
From a comparison of Mr. Gilpin 's observations in 1805 with those made by Mr. Cavendish in the year 1775 , it appears that its mean annual decrease has been 4f1.3 ; and its progressive annual decrease , in the above period , has been , on a mean , 1'4 .

