V. An Account of some Experiments made with the Bile of Persons dead of the Plague at Marseilles , with what appeared upon the Dissection of the Bodies ; as likewise some Experiments made with the Bile of Persons dead of other Diseases .
By the Learned and Curious Dr. Deidier , Professor of Physic in the Faculty of Montpellier .
Communicated by John Woodward , M D. Prof. Med. Gresh .
and R. S. S. Experiments made upon the Bile of Persons dead of the Plague .
Experiment I. THE Human Bile , taken from the Gall-Bladder of the Bodies of those that died of the Plague at Marseilles , has been always found to be of a black and greenish Colour .
It has become constantly of a lasting Grass Green upon the mixing of Spirit of Vitriol with it ; and always very yellow when we mixed Oil of Tartar per deliquium , or the Alcalous fixed Salt of the same dissolved in a sufficient Quantity of Water .
These two Colours , green , and yellow , have continued for whole Months .
The said Bile has become of a black Colour , like Ink , but soon fading , by the Affusion of Spirit of Nitr Experiment II .
The Bile , taken from the Gall-Bladder of the Bodies of those that died of the Plague , having been poured into a Wound made on purpose in different Dogs , has rendered them thereupon melancholy , drowsy , and without caring to eatAll these Animals died in three or four Days with the essential Marks of the true Plague , declared by Buboes , Carbuncles , and gangrenous Inflammations in the Viscera , in the same manner as in the human Carcasses from whence the Bile was taken .
Experiment III .
A Drachm of the said pestiferous Bile having been mixed with two Ounces of Fountain Water made lukewarm , and injected into the Jugular Vein of several Dogs , has rendered them presently drowsy , and has killed them in four Hours , with gangrenous Inflammations , the Heart stuffed full of black thick Blood , the Liver swelled , and the Gall Bladder full of green Bile .
Experiment IV .
The same Quantity of Bile , injected by the Crural Vein , has produced in the Dogs a Heaviness in about an Hour .
They have had such a strong loathing of their Food , that they would not eat or drink the least matter after the Injection was made .
They pissed frequently , especially if they were stirred .
On the third Day there appeared considerable Tumors under the Axilla , and on their Thighs , about 3 Inches from the Wound .
The Wound turned to a Gangrene , and the Creature usually died on the fourth Day , with all the Marks of the Plague .
Experiment V. A Dog , of the Hospital at the Mail , in Marseilles , who follow 'd the Surgeons when they went to dress the Sick , used greedily to swallow the corrupted Glands , and the Dressings charged with Pus that they took off the Plague-Sores ; he licked up the Blood that he found spilt on the Ground in the Infirmary ; and this he did for about three Months , and was always well , gay , brisk , full of Play , and familiar with all Comers .
We injected into the right crural Vein of this Dog about a Drachm of the pestiferous Bile , mixed with two Ounces of warm Water .
He died the fourth Day , as the others did , with a Bubo on the wounded Thigh ; on which likewise there were two Carbuncles , and the Wound gangren 'd .
What we took particular Notice of in this Dog was , that after the Injection , both when he was living , and after he was opened , when dead , he had a very stinking Smell , which we did not observe in any of the others .
He had moreover a considerable Haemorrhage from the Wound , the Night before he died , having struggled hard to escape out of his Confinement .
Experiment VI .
The 2d of May having injected about a Drachm of humane Bile , taken from Persons dead of the Plague , mixed with two Ounces of warm Water , into the Crural Vein of a Dog , the Creature was presently drowsy , refused his Food , and dyed about the third or fourth Day after the Injection , with all the inward and outward Marks of the Plague that the others had .
Experiment VII .
The sixth of the same Month we collected the Bile of this Dog dead of the Plague , and injected it by the Crural Vein into the Blood of another Dog , who , presently after the Injection , had Convulsive Motions all over him , which were follow 'd by a Lethargic Heaviness .
On the second Day after the Injection , there appeared a Carbuncle upon the great Pectoral Muscle on the right side The third Day there arose a considerable Bubo on the Thigh ; and the Dog died the same Day .
Upon opening the Body , we found the fore part of the Breast all gangren 'd under the Teguments ; and , in the inward parts , the Viscera were full of black clotted Blood ; as in all the rest .
The outward Surface of the Lungs was all Purple ; The Heart was swelled as big again as usual , with the four Cavities full of black clotted Blood .
The Creature had lived three Days from the Injection without eating or drinking .
The 10th of May we injected the Bile of this second Dog into the Crural Vein of a third Dog , who was thereupon seized with violent Convulsions , and different convulsive Motions , for about half a quarter of an Hour .
When he was recovered from these , he appeared dull , and sleepy ; he vomited with violent Strainings .
The Vomiting was followed with a Hickup .
He eat a little boiled Meat , having fasted a good while before the Injection was made ; but he vomited it up two Hours after he had taken it .
He died the third Day with th e same Symptoms of the Plague that the other Dogs had .
The State of the Bodies of Persons dead of the Plague , from which we took the Bile for the Experiments beforemention 'd .
The first Body .
ONE Belefleur , a Soldier , of 25 Years of Age , of a strong robust Constitution , having a flattish Bubo growing on the hollow of the right Groin , died delirous .
We found in his Carcass the Heart of an extraordinary Bigness , stuffed with black clotted Blood .
His Lungs covered with a livid Purple~ and sticking a little to the Pleura .
The Liver was double the natural Bigness , and stuffed with a thick Blood .
The Gall Bladder was full of a black and greenish Bile .
The Dura and Pia Matter by their Blackness seemed to have been seized with a gangrenous Inflammation .
The inward Substance of the Brain was sprinkled over with an infinite number of small livid Spots .
The second Body .
Mary Pisanne , aged 30 Years , of a sanguine Habit , had a Bubo under her right Arm-pit , with a Delirium that was followed by a mortal Sleepiness .
In the opening of her Body , we remarked , that the Lungs were in their natural State .
The Heart was of a prodigious bigness , full of black coagulated Blood , with the left Auricle livid and gangrenous .
The Liver , which was much enlarged , was all covered with Purple ; ple ; and the Gall Bladder filled with a black and greenish Bile .
The Head was not opened .
The third Body .
Peter Moulard , of a tender , feeble Constitution , about 14 Years of Age , had a Bubo under the hollow of the right Groin very deep , and that never came well out .
He became delirous with Convulsions , in which this Child died .
We found in his Body his Heart of double the bigness that it ought naturally to be , containing a black thick Blood : His Lungs were besprinkled with livid Spots .
The Gall Bladder full of a black and greenish Bile .
The Head was not opened .
The fourth Body .
Jean Raynaud , Cook , aged about 25 Years , of a melancholy .
Temperament , had the whole Habit of his Body covered with a purple livid Colour , and a Bubo under his left Axilla ; he died in a delirous Frenzy .
We found in his Carcass two Abscesses , one between the Teguments and the left great pectoral Muscle , and the other in the Breast between the Sternum and the Mediastinum .
His Heart was very large , filled with black thick Blood .
The right Auricle was of the Breadth of three Inches ; the left was in its natural State .
His Lungs were covered with little livid Spots , remaining soft and pliant , without any hardness in the Substance of them .
The Liver was larger and harder than ordinary , and was also full of livid purple Spots ; and the like were found in~ the Substance of his Brain , of which all the Vessels were filled with black thick Blood .
The fifth Body .
Jaques Audibert , aged about 35 , of a melancholy Complexion , four Months after he had been cured of the Plague , the Mark of which was a Bubo in the fold of the right Groin , which came well to a Suppuration , was attacked afresh with three Carbuncles ; one in the middle of the Arm , and the other two in the fore Arm .
He had but little Fever , with some small Sickness at Stomach ; but a Delirium coming of a sudden , carried him off .
Upon opening his Body , we found his Heart of a prodigious Bigness .
The right Auricle being of the breadth of five Inches ; and the left of three .
We found a little Impostume upon the Body of the Aorta .
The Lungs were covered with livid Spots , and the Liver appeared gangrenous .
The Gall Bladder was of a very black Colour .
The Duodenum and the Rectum were inflamed .
We did not open the Head .
The sixth Body .
Venture Cajole , about 40 Years of Age , of a melancholy Temperament , died without any outward Eruption on the third Day , of a violent Fever , with a Sleepiness .
We found in the Body the Mediastinum torn towards the uppet part .
The Vericardium was of a livid Colour .
The Heart larger than in its natural State , by the swelling of its Ventricles full of black thick Blood , as in the other Carcasses .
The Liver also was very large , and of a livid Colour , with a Carbuncular Pustule on the side of the Gall Bladder ; this was filled with very black Bile .
The seventh Body .
Margueritte Bachaire , aged 18 Years , of a lively vigorous Constitution , having two Carbuncular Pustules on the middle and inside of the Thigh , with a sharp Pain in the Head , died delirous .
We found in her Body the Coverings of the Brain of a blackish red ; The Cortical part of a livid Colour , and the Medullary sprinkled with a few black Spots ; The Heart of a prodigious Size , full of a thick black Blood : The Liver also very large , and the Gall Bladder very full of a black and green Bile .
There were several livid Spots upon the Surface of the Intestines .
The eighth Body .
Louise Belingere , 20 Years of Age , having a Bubo in each fold of the Groin , died very suddenly without any dangerous Symptoms .
We found in her Carcass the Heart all covered with a livid Purple , much larger than natural , filled with thick black Blood , having a Polypus in each Ventricle .
The Lungs were in their natural State .
The Liver of a prodigious Greatness ; and the Gall Bladder full of Bile , of a deep green Colour .
The ninth Body .
One named Rampeau , a Peasant , aged about 20 Years , of a sanguine robust Constitution , having had a Carbuncular Parotide for the Space of eight Days , accompanied with a burning Fever , was carried to the Hospital the 2d of May , where he died the 5th .
We found the outward part of the left side of the Lungs covered with a livid Purple .
The Heart was of double th natural Bigness , having scarce any Blood in the V en tricles , whose Cavities were filled each with a large Polypus , that on the right side having dilated the Auricle to the breadth of four Inches .
The Liver also was larger than ordinary , and the Gall Bladder was full of a black and green Bile .
The Experiments , and the opening of the Bodies mentioned above , were made in the Hospital at the Mall , and in the Apothecary 's Shop of the Reverend the Reformed Fathers of Marseilles , during the Months of February , March , April , May , in Company of Mess .
Roberts and Ribeaud , Doctors of Physic .
The following Experiments were made at Montpelier , in the Hospital of St. Eloy , during the Months of September , October , and November , in company with Mons. Fizes , Dr. of Physic , and Professor of the Mathematicks , and Messieurs Duli and Morel , young Surgeons of the said Hospital .
A Soldier , between the Age of 20 and 25 , of a lively brisk Temper , being sick in the Hospital of St. Eloy of an ordinary malignant Fever , died about the 15th Day by a Defluxion upon his Breast .
His Lungs were found very much blown up , filling all the Cavity of the Breast , and adhering to the Pleura .
Having remarked that the Bile in the GallBladder was of a bright Grass green Colour , we gathered it for the following Experiments .
This Bile , being mingled with four Ounces of warm Water , was part injected into the Jugular Vein of a Dog , and a Compress soaked in the rest of the Liquor was applied to the rest of the Wound .
The Creature thereupon appeared heavy and sleepy , and would neither eat nor drink ; the third Day he eat and drank willingly .
The Compress falling off the fourth Day , the Wound was diminished one half , and was healed by little and little , and the Dog grew perfectly well .
The eighth Experiment .
A Peasant of about 50 or 60 Years old , of a melancholy Temperament , had been near a Month in the Hospital with an ordinary malignant Fever , having alternatively a Delirium and a Sleepiness .
After his Death , the Bile was found extreme thick , and black as Ink , and a great deal of it .
We put about a Drachm in a Wound made for that purpose on the outer part of the right Thigh of a Dog , thrusting in Pledgets dipped in the said Bile diluted , into the Wound .
There did not appear any Change in the Dog .
We made him swallow some of the same Bile , without losing his Appetite ; and seeing he was like to do well , we left the Wound to it self , which healed in fifteen Days only by the Dog 's licking it .
The ninth Experiment .
Being willing to inject some of the same Bile into the Crural Vein of another Dog , and the Syringe being stopped by the too great Thickness of the said Bile , the Injection could not be made ; wherefore we took a Pledget soaked in as much of this Bile diluted , as it could take up , and applied it to a fresh Wound made in the inside of the right Thigh .
The Pledget was fastened within the Skin by some Needles .
This Application produced no considerable Alteration in the Dog ; he neither appeared sleepy nor stomachless ; but licked his Sore readily enough ; and after the Pledget was fallen off , the Wound healed as in the foregoing Experiment .
The tenth Experiment .
About a Drachm of the same black Bile drawn from the same Carcass , and mixed with warm Water , was injected into the Jugular Vein of another Dog .
The Creature was not incommoded thereby , but was as brisk as before the Injection , only he appeared very thirsty and he drank with Greediness .
The next Morning being willing to view the Wound , we found it black and dry , and the Dog becoming surly , bit one of the Assistants .
The two Ligatures made for the Injection were taken away without our seeing any Blood to run out .
We applied a Dossil , charged with the ordinary Digestive , and kept on by a Bandage ; and about four Hours after the Dressing , we found the Dog dead , having lived 23 Hours after the Injection .
Having opened him , we found that his Heart beat still with Violence , and the beating ceasing , there was no Blood either in the Ventricles or the Auricles .
This Liquor crowded together in the great Vessels , appeared of a lively red , and very fluid , without any of those Concretions that we constantly observed in all the Bodies that died of the Plague .
Here appeared neither internal nor external Marks of the Plague .
The eleventh Experiment .
An Inhabitant of Montpellier , aged about 30 or 35 , very fat and robust , of a sanguine Complexion , having had a Fall upon the Pavement , had received a simple Wound on the upper part of his Forehead on the right side .
This being neglected , brought on an Erysipelas all over his Face , which was accompanied with a Swelling of the left Parotide .
This appeared and disappeared thrice from Morning till Night .
The Erysipelas came suddenly on ; he grew delirous , and died after fifteen or twenty Days Illness , reckoning from the Fall .
In the opening of the Body , we found a quantity of Water between the Skull and the Dura Matter .
The Brain , which was firmer than ordinary , was a little red , and part of the Pia Matter covering the hinder part of that Viscus , appeared inflamed .
There was about half a Septier~ of Water of a yellowish Colour , shed in the Cavity of the Breast .
The great right Lobe of the Lungs was a little hard on the upper part .
The Heart had a Polypose Concretion in each Ventricle : We found likewise two Pints of limpid Water got forth into the lower Belly .
All the Fat of his Carcass was yellow .
The Liver appeared to us a little swelled ; and the Gall Bladder almost empty , not having above two Drachms of yellow Bile in it .
That Bile of this Carcass , mixed with two Ounces of warm Water , was injected into the Crural Vein of a Dog .
The Creature eat and drank heartily after the Injection , and did not appear at all incommoded .
The Wound bleeding much , we were obliged to fill it with restringent Powders , kept in by a Pledget and a convenient Bandage .
Twenty four Hours after , the Dressing was taken away , the Wound appeared black and dry .
The Dog licking it , it suppurated the next Day , and afterwards became red and well coloured ; and the Wound was lessened one half in eight Days , during which time , the Dog appeared in perfect Health .
The twelfth Experiment .
Eight Days after the foregoing Experiment , the Dog , that was the Subject of it , was killed by about half a Drachm of Powder of Hungarian Vitriol , dissolved in a spoonful of warm Water , which we injected into the Jugular Vein .
The Creature died on the spot , with universal Convulsions .
His Heart was found full of grumous Blood reduced to a kind of thick Pap , but without any Clods .
The Bile of this Dog was yellow and in little quantity .
Not being able to inject it into the Crural Vein of another Dog , because the Vein was too small , we contented our selves to dip two Compresses in this Bile , which we applied and kept under his Skin , by two Wounds made on purpose in this second Dog : There arrived no notable Change .
We observed in these two Dogs no Marks either internal , or external , of the Plague .
Done at Montpelier the 4th of December , 1721 .

