]\gt ; On the Effect of Asymmetry on -length By J. W. HOLSON , F.R.S. , and T. MEltTON , ( Received November 16 , 1920 .
) It is a familiar experience in spectroscopy that the actual accuracy which is attained in precise measurements of wave-length is almost invariably disappointing , and falls far short of the precision to be expected consideration of probable errors .
In particular , the measurenlen of unsymmetrical lines , difficult in itself , is affected by displacements which depend on the limited resolving power of the spectrograph .
It is no doubt well known that this effect must be operative , and it has been considered , for example , by and Bachem*in their search for the instein effect in the solal spectrum .
But we are not aware of any precise formulation of its magnitude , although a close approximation to the apparent displacement of the maximum of an unsymmetrical line , expressed in ) terms of the resolving power and the asymmetry , can be obtained from simple considerations .
We have at present no very precise knowledge of the intensity distribution curves of the unsymmetrical lines which found in the spectra of the electric arc and of numerous other sources .
But we have convinced ourselves , from an inspection of the photometric curves obtained by King and and St. John and Babcock , chat for the present purpose , we may assume , without serious error , that the lines may be represented by the purely artificial device of combining two error curves .
We do this by assuming that the intensity falls off from the , on either side of the line , according to the law The asymmetry is reproduced by rent values of on the two sides of the maximum .
It is evident that , with infinite esolviug power , the positions of the true and apparent maxima will be coincident ; but it will at once be seen that , with a finite power , the energy at any point is athered over a range prescribed , on the usual 6onsiderations of wave theory , ) the diffraction pattern of the slit .
The practical resolving power , however , is affecced by other considerations , such as the of the plate , and , for 'Deutsch .
Phys. Gesell .
Verh 21 , p. .
' Astrophys .
Jouru vol. 39 , p. 213 , vol. 42 , p. 231 ( 1914 ) .
Profs .
J. W. Nicholson and T. R. Merton .
On the practical purposes , we may consider that the is gathered over a range which is equal to the actual purity of the spectrum .
We eed as follows :\mdash ; Consider a line , whose maximum intensity occurs at , which is broadened in the direction of negative values of according to the intensity distribution law and , in the direction of positive values , according to the law Let the purity of the spectrum be represented by the interval 2 , the being thuls gathered on either side of any point over a range , Let be the abscissa of any point .
Then the energy , , gathered at this point is represented , on the complete graph of the lines , by the area lying above an interval , , bisected by the point , Q. Thus It is clear that is the of the displacement required when it is so belected that is a maximum , or is zero .
Since only occurs in the limits of integration , yields at once or whence rejecting the value which is obviously .
Thus the required displacement , , is .
It is convenient , at this point , to specify of asymmetry in some simple quantitative manner .
For this purpose we adopt the ratio of the two " " half-widths ' ' of the line on either side of the maximum , these being the values of which make equal to .
They are given by and calling them and , we have The quotient of the greater value of by the smaller may be called the Effect of Asymmetry on Wave-length .
263 of asymmetry and denoted by the symbol .
Thus , if , as we assumed above , and the formula for the displacement reduces to .
It is evident that in most spectroscopic measurements , where the accuracy of micrometer settings far transcends the resolving power , this correction is by no means inconsiderable .
Thus , on a plate on which lines separated by A. can just be resolved , the apparent displacement in the case of a line whose index of asymmetry is 3 is , and it is further to be noted that this displacement is independent of the actual values of and .
Thus , though a line may be so narrow that no trace of can be detected , it may nevertheless show a displacement which might in certain cases lead to entirely wrong conclusionls .
It is at least possible that some of the difficulties experienced in fitting a formula to a spectrum series may be due to errors arising in this manner .
We are thus led to the conclusion that the general practice of measuring wave-lengths to a degree of accuracy far transcending the purity of the spectrum , depends on the assumption that the lines show no serious asy1nmetry .
Whilst the assumption can hardly be accepted generally , it is of interest to note that the above considerations a method of measuring the index of asymmetry in some cases in which the physical width of the line is exceedingly small , for it is evident that , since the displacement can never exceed the purity of the spectrum , series of measurements made , for example , in different orders of the grating spectrum would afford material for the calculation of the asymmetry .
The application of these principles to investigations such as the displacement of lines in the solar spectrum is so evident as to need no further comment .
VOL. XCVIII.\mdash ; A.

