On the Isolation of the Radical , Mercuric Methyl .
By GEORGE BOWDLER BUCKTON , Esq. , F.B.S. Received December 4 , 1857 , -Read January 7 , 1858 .
DR. FRANKLAND , in his memoir communicated to the Royal Society , has described the iodide of an organic base containing mercury , to the hypothetical radical of which he gave the name of hydrargyromethylium .
At the same time he pointed out , that in common with zincethyl and analogous bodies , it might be regarded as formed upon the type of the metallic oxides , the oxygen of which , he considered , was represented by methyl , ethyl , &amp;c. Hydrargyromethylium , 2H according to this view , corresponds to mercurous oxide , of~ LHg .
Notwithstanding the various ingenious theories advanced with reference to the constitution of these organic metals , the opinion of chemists upon the subject has remained divided ; any addition therefore to our knowledge of their decompositions and , transformations will be regarded with interest .
DUNHAUPT , and more recently STRECKER , examined and analysed the salts of hydrargyromethylium and hydrargethylium , but hitherto no successful attempt appears to have been made to convert these bases from the mercurous to the mercuric type .
In an experiment connected with an examination of the nitrites made by Dr. HOFMANN and myself , iodide of hydrargyromethylium was acted upon by an aqueous solution of cyaiide of potassium , under the impression that cyanide of hydrargyromethylium would be produced .
After a digestion for twelve hours in a sealed tube , the chief product consisted of a double salt of iodide and cyanide of the two bases , a compound which readily crystallized in large plates on cooling .
The tube also contained ail inflammable gas , ammonia , a little reduced mercury , and a few drops of a heavy liquid , which at the time was regarded as regenerated iodide of methyl .
The investigation in this direction was then abandoned , but I have since returned to the subject , with the special view of effecting a partial reduction of the metallic element in the base .
The iodide of hydrargyromethylium was formed in the usual manner by sunlight , in long horizontal tubes , which gave a large surface of mercury for contact with the iodide of methyl .
After sufficient exposure , the contents of the tubes were heated to 10O ?
C. z 2 to drive off the iodide of methyl , and the crystalline mass , after separation from the excess of mercury by pressure in a cloth , was powdered and exposed to the air for some hours to remove every trace of iodide of methyl .
This crude mass was generally employed in the following experiments , but the pure compound may be expeditiously obtained by dissolving the crystals in hot aqueous potash .
By the addition of weak hydrochloric acid , which must not be in excess , the substance is again precipitated .
A subsequent washing in water , in which it is almost insoluble , yields it pure and colourless .
Aqueous cyanide of potassium acts very slowly upon iodide of hydrargyromethylium , and requires a temperature approaching to 2000 C. before mercury is reduced .
The volatile matters -formed , exert a pressure that few glass tubes can resist , even when assisted by an atmosphere of steam .
Much better results were obtained by the following method .
Dry iodide of hydrargyromethylium was rubbed in a mortar with finely divided cyanide of potassium , and distilled in flasks over the naked gas flame .
Small charges and frequent operations are better than acting on large portions .
A gas passes with an odour something like that of trimethylamine ; also water , ammonia ; and finally , a heavy liquid which is not miscible with water .
The residue in the flask contains iodide and carbonate of potassium , paracyanogen , and metallic mercury .
A portion of iodide of hydrargyromethylium always sublimes .
The distillate was agitated with water , and the lower stratum , which was comparatively small in amount , was twice rectified over chloride of calcium at the temperature.of the water-bath .
This liquid has the following properties:-It is colourless , highly refractive to light , and almost wholly insoluble in water .
When pure , it has a faint and somewhat sweetish odour , but the crude product is contaminated with the offensive body that always accompanies the decomposition of methyl compounds when heated with cyanide of potassium .
The odour may be entirely removed by agitation with very dilute sulphuric acid .
This liquid is very combustible , and burns with a luminous flame and abundant evolution of mercurial vapour .
It is soluble in all proportions in alcohol and in ether , from the former of which it is precipitated on addition of water .
The vapour detonates loudly when exploded with oxygen gas .
This preparation began to boil at 930 , at which point it remained constant until about ; ths of the whole had passed over ; the remainder came over between 930 and 96 ?
C. The specific gravity of the former portion was found to be 3 069 , from which it appears to be the heaviest of known non-metallic liquids .
A solid glass rod floats freely on its surface * .
The pure substance contains neither iodine nor cyanogen ; still it is very difficult to separate every trace of iodide of hydrargyromethylium whichvolatilizes with the vapour .
This impurity is not easily detected until the liquid is burnt with oxide of copper , when a little subiodide of copper generally appears .
To this cause is referred the circumstance that the following analyses are slightly below the theoretical value : I. 0*9774 grm. burnt with oxide of copper , gave -02335 grrm .
water and 0 3508 grm. carbonic acid .
II .
0-8082 grm. burnt with oxide of copper , gave 0-1895 grm. water and 0 2870 grm. carbonic acid .
III .
0)7800 grm. burnt with soda-lime , gave 0-6718 grm. mercury .
IV .
1P2405 grm. burnt with oxide of copper , gave 1P0680 grm , mercury .
These numbers correspond to the percentagesI .
II .
III .
IV .
Carbon 9'78 9-68 Hydrogen 2'65 2-60 Mercury 86-11 8609 and accord with the formula C2 113 Hg .
Theory .
Mean of Experiment .
2 equivs. of Carbon. .
12 1043 9.73 3 equivs. of Hydrogen , 3 2-60 2-63 1 equiv. of Mercury. .
100 86'97 86-10 115 100'00 If the materials be dry , the decomposition of iodide of hydrargyromethylium by cyanide of potassium is very simple , and may thus be expressed by equation , C2 H3 Hg2 , 1+KCy=C2 H3 Hg+KI+Cy+Hg .
I do not find , however , any advantage in using the materials absolutely dry .
A little moisture disintegrates the cyanogen , and the resulting gaseous products assist in removing the vapour of the new body from the seat of decomposition .
From the constitution of this compound the name mercuric methyl is proposed .
Should this appellation be accepted by chemists , Dr. FRANKLAND'S radical would be styled mercurous methyl .
As a corroboration to the foregoing analysis , an experiment was made to ascertain the specific gravity of the vapour , after the method of IDUMAS .
Grammes .
Pressure .
Temperature .
Weight of globe filled with vapour .
10'3245 769 mm. 1170 C. Weight of globe filled with air. .
9'9705 770 mm. 140 C. Difference= Pa 0'3540 Capacity of the globe =V=57'0 cubic centimetres .
Volume of mercury entering the globe-56'5 cubic centimetres .
Difference v0'5 In-=weight of one cubic inch of air at 14 ?
C.= 0001230 .
ng , =weight of one cubic inch of air at 117W C.=O0000905 : By introducing these numerical values into MtULLER'S formula , we have Specific gravity P+ Vnt 0-42411 of the vapourf ( V-v)nt , 01055113 The weight represented by the formula C2 H3 Hg , divided by the experimental density , gives the quotient 159 =13-87 .
Supposing the constituents of mercuric methyl condensed into two volumes of vapour , the more accurate number 14-46 should have been obtained .
115 The theoretical density of the vapour of mercuric methyl is y-4 9 Although the salts of mercurous methyl are remarkably stable , the sulphate for instance resisting for some time the action of boiling sulphuric acid , they may be made to part with a portion of their mercury by a variety of means .
The action of sodium on mercuric methyl is very slow , and it is only after long boiling that the sodium becomes amalgamated , with the liberation of a gas which is doubtless methyl .
The action of sodium , on the other hand , upon iodide of mercurous methyl , is sufficiently great to cause explosion when gently heated .
If the sodium be previously amalgamated , and reduced to small pieces , the volatile products will be found to contain a considerable quantity of mercuric methyl .
The same decomposition is also effected through lime or hydrate of potassa .
A higher temperature appears to be required to induce the change , and accordingly the amount of mercuric methyl obtained is comparatively small .
Marsh-gas is liberated in the decomposition according to the equation 2(C2 HHg2 1)+2KO HO=C1 H3 Hg+2KI+C2 H4+3HgO+HO .
I)ecompositions of Mercuric Methyl .
Mercuric methyl exhibits no tendency to unite with the electro-negative elements , such as oxygen and chlorine .
All attempts to produce such compounds lead to the destruction of the substance .
Mercuric methyl sinks in concentrated sulphuric acid , and liberates bubbles of a gas which burns with a pale non-luminous flame .
This evolution is assisted by a gentle heat .
One volume of this gas , when exploded in the eudiometer with a mixture of oxygen and air , gave , after due correction for pressure and temperature , a contraction equal to two volumes , and subsequently by potash , an absorption equal to one volume of carbonic acid .
This deportment shows the gas to be hydride of methyl or marsh-gas .
After the decomposition of mercuric methyl by an acid , the solution contains an abundance of that salt of mercurous methyl which corresponds to the acid employed Thus with hydrochloric acid we obtain the chloride , and with sulphuric acid the sulphate of mercurous methyl , C2H3Hg}+HClC2H3 Hg2 Cl+C21 H31H .
On adding bromine to the liquid , a violent action results , and the white and crystalline bromide is formed .
Iodine also unites with mercuric methyl with a loud hissing noise .
If the reaction be conducted under water , bubbles of gas are disengaged , which prove to be pure methyl gas , C2 113 Hg } +I=C2 H Hg2 I+C2 H13 .
The mercury in these bodies is retained with remarkable tenacity , in what may be called organic combination .
The strongest acids fail in reducing them to ordinary inorganic mercury salts .
They are indifferent also to sulphide of ammonium , at usual pressures and temperatures .
Both compounds are however decomposed , with deposition of mercury , by the action of clean zinc and a dilute acid .
Mercuric methyl is a ready solvent of resins and caoutchouc , but it retains in solution only a small quantity of sulphur even at the boiling heat .
The liquid dissolves phosphorus almost in every proportion , but no transformation is effected by subjecting the two bodies to a temperature of 1600 C. in a sealed tube .
The solution , when allowed to evaporate on filter paper , leaves the phosphorus in a state so finely divided as to cause spontaneous ignition .
Mercuric methyl furnishes with bichloride of tin a crystalline compound which readily decomposes on the addition of water .
Thin colourless plates are formed , which after being well washed with water from the soluble tin salt , were analysed .
The crystals were dried over sulphuric acid , and sublimed between watch-glasses .
017105 grm. of substance gave with nitrate of silver 0 4090 grm. of chloride of silver .
The salt proved therefore to be nothing but chloride of mercurous methyl .
C2 H1 Hg2 Cl requiresTheory .
Experiment .
Chlorine.14.18 14 22 An analogous reaction is effected by a similar treatment with terchloride of phosphorus .
Some interest attaches also to the circumstance that mercuric iodide combines directly with mercuric methyl , to form iodide of mercurous methyl .
The change is effected quietly when assisted by a gentle heat .
Mercuric methyl is indifferent to the action of the iodides of lead and silver , the metals most nearly allied to mercury in their general properties .
Mercuric Ethyl .
The foregoing experiments left little doubt of the existence of a corresponding body in the ethyl series .
There appears , however , to be some difficulty in obtaining it in quantity , from the ease with which the body undergoes decomposition at a high temperature .
Although little less than one pound of iodide of mercurous ethyl was digested with cyanide of potassium , the distillate obtained was too small in quantity to permit of more than a general examination .
The greater part of the new body is resolved by the heat employed into mercury , paracyanogen , and gaseous matters , of an offensive odour .
The product in the receiver was distilled in a water-bath until all iodide of ethyl was driven off .
A watery liquid remained having a substratum of an oily consistence , which strongly greased the sides of the retort .
At an advanced heat this substance passed over as a colourless , heavy fluid , quite unmiscible with water .
Although unable to obtain an analysis , I have no doubt of this substance being mercuric ethyl .
The boiling-point , as before noticed , is above that of water .
It burns with a lurid flame , which appears to be smoky from the disengagement of mercurial vapour .
Its behaviour towards acids is just what we might expect from a body so little removed in composition from mercuric methyl .
Hydride of ethyl is liberated instead of marsh-gas , as in the former case , and salts of mercurous ethyl are deposited from the acid solutions .
A question now arises as to whether the above-described substances represent , in their respective series , the sole radicals of the organo-mercurial bases .
Up to the present time the radical of mercurous methyl , &amp;c. has not been isolated .
Should it indeed exist , its discovery would add weight to GERHARDT'S views with reference to the different conditions of mercury , as mercuricum and mercurosum .
I propose to submit to similar treatment the salts of stanethylium and zincethyl .
I have already made some preliminary experiments on the former , and the results seem to give promise of subjects of interest .
-December 2 , 1857 .

