]\gt ; cathode rdius.urvature oxperiment dofesso.homson , Rontgen rays not less than If the Rontgen rays are magnetically deflected at all , it is by less than a ten-thousandth part of that observed in the case of the Becquerel rays .
The magnetic deflectibility of the Becquerel rays cannot but be C011sidered to be a most characteristic prope1ty .
And the above result ppears to make it tolerably certain that the Rontgen rays do not possess this property .
It is to be concluded , therefore , that the Becquerel rays are , after all , essentially different in character from the Rontgetl rays .
" " An Experimental Investigation of the Thermo-dynamical Properties of Superheated Steam By JOHN H. GRINDLEY , B.Sc. , Wh .
Sch .
, Exhibition ( 1801 ) Scholar , late Fellow of the Victoria University .
Communicated by Professor OSBORNE REYNOLDS , F.R.S. April 21 , 1899 , \mdash ; Read January 18 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) PART the Law of Flow of Saturated through Small rifice , In making experiments on the thermal properties of superheated steam obtained by wiredrawing saturated steam , it is essential that certain laws assumed in theory to govern the flow through the orifice should obtain in practice .
Among these laws the only one on which a difference would be expected to exist between experiment and theory , is the law of adiabatic expansion assumed to hold during the flow .
Since such adiabatical flow is not umed , ) is in obtaining temperature results in the wiredrawn steam which will enable deductions to be made by theory of the initial dryness of the steam or its thermal condition after awing , it was found imconstallt , being the pressure , / ) the specific volume of the gas , and a constant for any particular gas , we can deduce this value of the pressure ratio giving maximum flow in the form Putting we get for saturated steam expanding adiabatically during its flow through the orifice .
If now the flow of be -ruly in an experiment , this articular value of the pressure ratio giving the maximum flow should actually found by the experiment , and if some other value than this be obtained the law of flow will not then be the true adiabatic one for saturated steam .
Ilcnoe the attainment of this particular value of the pressure ratio giving the maximum discharge was made the object of the experimental inquiry here described , since it would follow that the law of expansion th ough the orifice was then truly the adiabatic law for saturated steam .
To begin with , an orifice was drilled in a piece of thin sheet the nature of which should create , if possible , a large deviation from the adiabatic in the law of through the orifice .
Experiments were then with this orifice placed between a steam chest and a condenser , the weight of steam passing per minute being taken Properties of at rious p over a wide range of pressure ratio , the upper pressure being kept constant .
It was found that the maximum rate of diScharge did not occur until the ratio of pressures had fallen to , it value far below that given by the theory , and indicating a far different law of flow through the orifice than the adiabatic .
As contrast to this , ince the element in the question to be the lctivity of the substance in which the orifice is , the later experiments were made with an orifice drilled in a lass plate , the orifice being neither sharp lipped nor smoothly roumded , the lip in the best ciroumstances .
a rough chipped edge .
Now with such material for an orifice plate , it is evident that any passage of heat between the glass and the steam will be very small , and also if adiabatic flow is not no obtalned , then either there must be a passage of heat varions portions of the glass itnd the steam iu with them , or heat be conducted along the stream of vapour itself , the latter being considered negligible from considerations of gnseous conductivity .
The experiments made with this orifice show a complete agreement betwcen the results of experiment and theory , and that the law of flow throngh ificc drilled in a plate of glass , no conditions being to the or otherwise of the lip of the orifice , is iscly the ) law ssumed in the thecr II.\mdash ; On RegIlault 's the of turated steam lulder various pressures , the steam was lpwards from a oiler , allowing any entrained moisture in the steam to be separated by vity .
steam obtained in any other manner would not ecessarily have the total heat as that obtained by Regnault at the same presstll'e , and it is therefore of great importance to note that the yness of the steam in RegnauIt 's periments was obtained by the sinlple method of sllspended from it .
Hence , since the foundation of most of the researches on het thermal of steam rests tlpon 's results , it would be well to ccept of dry saturated steam that condition of steam -hich is )tained by draining from wet steam ally entangled moisture .
king eiments on the thermal condition of superheated tcam o wiredrawing steam , kllowledge of the total of porittion of the steam before wiredrawing is necessary , RegnauIt 's bless of the total of snturated steam only to steam obtained in the above manner , it mnst also be obtained the same er for these titbles to apply .
The precise object of this paper is to descl.ibe a research on the thermal properties of superheated steam , these properties being deduced lring an experiment , the pressure in the chest )eing kept constant , a series of temperature readings at values of the lower pressure ) served in the wiredrawn steam .
By this means a curve showing the cooling of the steam for any degree of from an initial constant pressure could be on a -temperature diagram .
Provided now the total heat of ) efore 1 the was known , it would ) possible to deduce these tnre and presstlre results the values of the mean speeific heat tstant pressure of superheated steam between the satur condition and the temperature of the steam at any ossure , and further , the total heat of steam $]y tcmpcrature )tained I such , wonld ) Whether the steaun in sanlG ) eforo riredralving ) as that tained i 's experiments certainly eitS point to decide .
In ) , ]\ldquo ; the tained I draining any speIlded m from ) ] ] } .
) whethe this proc.ess of ) the the con dition as to , whntcver the of in the steam , yet opcn question , n'hich could ) decided experimen .
-tccordingly experiments were con duoted tnrated at prcssnre in the diffe .
of 11 etness in iments .
The the ximum difference of temperature at any in the which could be found to exist CCtl C different degrees of wetnles in the chest generaIly the differProperties of .
83 ence could not be uished , it bein remarkedthat if the of the steam before passing the orifice had been altered by so little as per cent. , a difference of 1o F. should have been observed in the enlperature of the sleam .
It would , therefore , appear that saturated steam any particular pressure obtained by relieving it of suspended moisture by gravitation has only one condition as to its dryness , and also that steam in this particular condition obtained both in these experiments ctnd in those of Regnault , and it is therefore taken that the steam before wirealving has a total heat given by 's tables of the total heats of turated steam .
Further experiments also made to )serve the eiiect of alteri1lg the position of the thermo-electric junction in the wiredrawn steam , of the effect of the steam iacket on the temperature of the wiredrawn steam , and of the effect of the velocity of the steam through the apparatus on these ture readings .
The amount of the corrections required for the conduction of heat between various portions of the apparatus and the steam calculated , but on account of the precautions these were generally found to be .
The method of fixing the absolute temperature of the wiredrawn steam should be here mentioned , as it is a point of great importance , on account of the difficulties attending the accurate measurement of the temperature .
the experiments the thermometer was used merely as a scade to compare the temperature of the steam that of saturated steam nnder a known pressure flowing through the same portions of the atus with about the same velocity , the fixing of the temperature ttgain dependent on 's tables of the lion of saturated steam .
The final results tained sho clearly ithin the limits of ture obtained ) turated s varyin from to F. , the condition of the steam known perfect gas was not ) } , even when the ving tinued to .
or .
per square inch absolute pressure ; and fnrthel that between the same temperatures and betweell pressures of ) lbs. per inch , there was not of value of the specific heat at constant pressnre in the heated steam .
The specific heat at consta1lt pressllre was fonnd to ease with teml ) ture , the mean specific ressurc etweell the tcmperatures itnd ) etweetl telll ) the specific As regards the tion in the of the specific at contant pressure of steam with the pressure , it irom an examination of the results at ) the tenl perature but under differcnt pressures , if ) such variation in the cifi Mr aestJHGrindley .
be An Investigation of specific heat exists it will be very small compared with the variation with temperature , such examination indicating that the value of the ' specific heat is sensibly independent of the pressure .
The law of cooling followed by the wiredrawn steam is slightly cooling was found to diminish with increase of initial temperature .
that txfor ashort distance toints , xperiments srhcated steam wiredrawn fefinite iseem thfferent fbtaini ithat t mistaken for evidence of wetness in the steam .
5 Tables show1ng the fall of temperature with pressure in the wiresteam , of the total heat of the steam under certain pressures temperatures , and of tlJe mean value of the specific heat at constant pressure of superheated steam at definite pressures and between temperatnres , accompany the paper .
PART III .
In this portion of the paper the two properties of steam deduced directly from the experimental figures , , the specific heat and the cooling effect or , are more directly considered .
In the first , the cooling effect is found to be inversely proportional to here is the absolute temperature .
It is then shone that the following formula is capable of strict proof from thermodynamicnl principles , the pl'etation of the being that the variation of with the at constant tempcrature is equal to the variat of the prowith the temperature at constant pressure , but of opposite sign .
Applying this to steam when superheated , it has been shown in II of the paper that the variation is zero to the degree of accuracy to which the experiments have been taken .
It follow therefore , from the above formula , that the variation should equal zero ; hence , the of the product have been tabulated for different pressures and tenlpcrabtlres , and so far as the results go , it is clearly shown that the product is an absolute , which means that the variations and ) are both zero .
the Thermo-dynamical Properties of Superheated Steam .
85 Since the variation , it is possible to integrate at onoe for the case of superheated steam Thomson 's formula for the cooling effect , which may be written the resulting equation being when A may be a function of the pressure .
This equation has been used to find the specific volumes of superheated steam under various oonditions of pressure and temperature , the value of A being deduced from known data in the saturated condition of the steam .
The calculated specific volumes , the accuracy of which depends solely on the experimental results obtained the research , are compared with those obtained experimentally by Hirn , the results in general agreeing very well .
It is also of terest to notioe that in any gas in which does not vary with the pressure , the product must also be independent of the turc in that particular gas , since the equatlon must be satisfied identically , and hence the equation must be immediately integrable for the gas in the form .

