22 On the Association of Attributes Statistics , Ac .
" On the Association of Attributes in Statistics , with Examples from the Material of the Childhood Society , \amp ; c. " By G. Udny Yule , formerly Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics , University College , London .
Communicated by Karl Pearson , F.K.S. Received October 20 , \#151 ; Read December 7 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) I he paper deals with the theory of association of attributes , invariable attributes , as opposed to the " correlation " of .
variables .
Two attributes A and B are independent or unassociated if ( AB ) = ( A ) ( B)/ N , ( A ) being the frequency of the attribute A , ( B ) that of B , and ( AB ) the frequency of the pair AB ; N being the total number of observations .
If this relation do not hold , they are " associated .
" Section ( I ) of the paper is introductory , describing the subject-matter and notation , which is essentially that of Jevons.* Calling a group defined by n attributes ABCD ... ... ..N an %th-order group , Section ( II ) deals with the fundamental problem of the number of independent order frequencies that can be formed from m attributes ; i.e. , the number of such frequencies that must be given before the remaining frequencies of the same order can be calculated .
Certain extremely curious relations are shown to hold in the special case of " equality of contraries , " where all pairs of contrary frequencies ( A ) ( a ) , ( AB ) ( x/ 3 ) , ( ABC ) ( afty ) are equal , a being the contrary of A\#151 ; i.e. not A\#151 ; and so on .
Section ( III ) proceeds to the theory of association proper .
The function q _ ( AB ) ( a/ 3 ) - ( A/ 3 ) ( aB ) ~ ( AB ) ( aft ) + ( Aft ) ( aB ) is proposed as a " coefficient of association .
" It is zero when the attributes are independent , +1 when all A 's are B or all B 's are A , and -1 when all A 's are ft or all ft 's are A , and thus measures the approach towards " perfect association " in the same sort of way as the correlation coefficient measures the approach towards perfect correlation .
The connection between correlation and association is touched upon , and it is pointed out that one may form " partial " coefficients of association ( by limiting the extent of the universe of * " On a G-eneral System of Numerically Definite Reasoning , " ' Manchester Lit. and Phil. Soc. , ' 1870 , and " Pure Logic and other minor works " p. 173 .
Data for the Problem of Evolution Man .
discourse ) roughly corresponding in their uses to partial coefficients of correlation .
In Section ( IV ) , the values of the Probable Errors , and the correlations of the errors in the chief constants , are obtained .
The probable error of Q is In Section ( V ) , a series of miscellaneous illustrations are given ( association of smallpox attack rate and non-vaccination ; association between temper of husband and wife , inheritance of artistic faculty \amp ; c. , from Mr. Francis Galton 's 'Natural Inheritance ' ; association between vigour of offspring and crossing of parentage in plants from Darwin 's ' Cross and Self-fertilisation ) .
^ In Section ( VI ) , the " Association of defects in children and adults , " is treated more at length as an example of the methods advocated , the material being drawn mainly from the Report of the Committee on the Scientific Study of Childhood .
It is shown that the association coefficient is almost uniformly higher for women than men , and for children than adults .
This last effect is however a mixed one , due partly to selection , partly to change in the individual , and the material available does not enable us to separate the partial effects .
These two laws of association appear to correspond to similar ones for correlation ; women being more highly correlated than men , and children than adults .
" Data for the Problem of Evolution in Man .
III.\#151 ; On the ^Magnitude of certain Coefficients of Correlation in Man , \amp ; c. By Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , University College , London .
Received November 20 , \#151 ; Read December 7 , 1899 .
1 .
This paper contains a number of data bearing on the correlation of characters , \amp ; c. , in man which have been worked out by my collaborators during the last few years , and several of which seem of considerable importance for problems relating to the .
evolution of man .
In each case the data were procured or reduced with a view to answering some problem which had directly arisen during our inquiries as to the action of natural selection on man .
Questions as to the alteration of correlation with growth or the influence of homogamy on fertility demand definite answers before the general theory of the influence of natural selection on a growing and reproductive population can be effectively developed .
0-6745 i-g

