]\gt ; The Dissipation of Energ . ?
/ Electric Currents .
The Dissipation of by Electric Currents inducedinanByERNEST Iron Cylinder when rotated in a Magnetic Field .
' WILSON , Professor of Electrical , King 's College , London .
by Sir W. H. PREECE , F.R.S. Received May 28 , \mdash ; Read June 12 , 1902 .
The effect which induced electric currents have upon the distribution of magnetism an iron cylinder , when rotated in a field has formed the subject of a communication , and it is the object of this to deal with the energy dissipated by these electric ourrents .
A comparison will be made between the results of experiment theory .
In connection with the latter , I have to than 1 J. B. Dale , Esq. , M.A. , Assistant Lecturer in IathematlCS , King 's College , Coll London , for a ibution which at his wish I append to this paper .
The cylinder used in the experiments has diameter and length eac 10 inches cm Since the previous experiments were ma de additional holes have been drilled in a planc containing the longitudinal axis of the cylinder , and its present section is shown in fig. 1 .
Insulated copper conductors have been threaded through these holes , .and enclose areas indicated by the thick lines in fig. 1 .
The coils are numbered 1 , 2 ' , and 4 , and enclose areas of , 232 , and 654 .
cm .
respectively .
As in the previous experiments , the electromotive force in each coil has been calculated from the observed deflection of the needle of a D'Arsonval galvanometer placed in each clrcuit .
The deflections were observed simuItaneously , thus the relative phase-displacements to be determined .
esisiance .
The specific resistance of the material of the cylinder has not directly determined .
The late Dr. John Hopkinson gives ohm , for mild steel , I have used ohm in ) with the cylinder .
A remarkable case of high speciiic res stance , combined with high magnetic permeability and relatively small dissipation .of energy by magnetic hysteresis under ternatlng magnetic force , is , an alloy of iron and aluminium , S in which the specl fic resistance is ohm .
Provided it keeps its good qualities after prolong use , this alloy should prove of great value .
*See Wilson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 69 , p. 485 .
I wish again to acknowledge the grant for the purposes of this voted to me by the Council of the Royal Society out of the Government Grant .
See ' Phil. Trans 1885 .
S See Barrett , , and Hndlield , ' Inst. Elec .
Eng. Journ vol. 31 , pp. Th of lectric Crents .
The rate at which energy is being Qsipated by electric currents .
induced in the cylinder , has been obtained in the following manner .
The horizontal radius in fig. 2 has been divided into ten equal parts , and the cylinder is supposed to be cut vertical planes passing through the points of intersection , the plane conta nng the axis of the cylinder .
The circles 1 , 2 , ow .
2 ' 4 show the traversed by the longitudinal sides of the coils ring rotation of the cylinder .
In the plane let be the angles which the plane the exploring coils makes vlth the horizontal when the coils 1 , have respectively one of sides in the planle .
ree Th paths of induced electric currents 111 the plane are now assume. .
No. 1 is taken to the rectangle having its two es , are des which parallel to the longitudinal axis , equal to and coinciding with the sides of the coil , and its two other sides the straight necessary .
to complete the rectangle in the plane .
Similarly with regard to cons , and 4 .
Each path is assumed to have a cross-sectional area of 1 sq .
cm .
throughout its length , and this area multiplied by the sine of the angle lvhich the.plane of the coil makes with the horizontal , hout the renlalnlng portion of length .
The Th eloctric resistance of each path has been calculated in ohms .
Fig. 3 gives a set of curves obtained with 360 seconds periodic time , maximum induction 19,900 C.G.S. units per square for No. 4 coil .
The curves give the electromotive forces in volts turn coils 1 , 2 ' , respcctively .
The force of No. 1 coil at angles on each side of the point , where the curve .
Prof. E. outs the axis of time , has been halved , the sum of the values obtained is taken to be the effective electromotive force in voIts around the assumed path of the induced electric current .
for coils 2 ' 4 at angles respectively in fig. 3 .
The rate of tion of energy in watts is taken to be the square of this force in volts , divided by the resistance of the path in ohms .
vatts have been plotted on squared paper , and the total watts in plane have been obtai ed by integration with respect to the distance from the horizontal axis .
Finally , by integrating with respect to the horizontal axis ox , the total watts dissipated in the half cylinder have been found .
The figures thus obtained at periodic times , 45 , 90 , and 360 seconds , for different values of the total flux of induction between the pole pieces , are set forth in Table I. Strictly this method is only applicable when the electromotive forces of coils 1 , 2 ' , and 4 are in phase .
With a periodic time of 360 seconds the curves are nearly in phase for all values of the external magnetising force , but this is not the cass for the other periodic times , except at the high .
The electromotive force curves are assumed to be in phase in each experiment when applying the above process of integration .
Inflnence of ) If reference be made to fig. 3 it will be seen that No. 4 coil gives.an eleotromotive force whose wave-form lies between a sine curve and a rectangle .
Supposs that the electromotive-force curve of No. 4 coil were a rectangle having the same area as a sine curve about the same base line .
Since the ximum ordinate of the sine curve is of the ordinate of the rectangle , it follows that the minimum induction density in the case of the rectangle will be of the average ction density .
Since also with the rectangle the electromotive force is constant for the No. 4 coil , the induction density will increase inversely as ( fig. 2 ) .
The value of the intensity of induction in each of the planes .
has been calculated , and the graphical treatment described in connection with the experiments has been applied .
It gives as a esult 2 for the watts per cubic centimetre dissipated by induced currents , the symbols having the definition given in the next section of this paper .
The graphical treatment has also bee11 applied when the intensity of netic induction is constant , and gives for the watts per cubic centimetre .
This formula is in close agreement with the result of theory .
should expect , therefore , that the experimental results would give a less rate of dissipation of energy than dictated by the consideralion of constant intensity of induction , and this is found to be the Dissipation of Energy Electric Currents .
363 It may be mentioned that as the above graphical methods rest upon calculabion , the paths of the respective curves were determined by many more points than were possible in connection with the experimental resuIts .
Theoretical Considerations .
Let average induction per square centimetre in C.G.S. units .
frequency in complete periods per second .
specffic resistance of the material of the cylinder in ohms .
length of cylinder in centimetres along its longitudinal axis .
diameter of cylinder in centimetres .
maximum radius of cylinder in centimetres .
x. be axes as shown in figs. 1 In any plane section such as , fig. 2 , one can consider three distributions of the currents induced in the cylinder by rotation n1 a magnetic field , the lines of force parallel to the planes , .
and at right angles to the longitudinal axis of the cylinder .
( 1 .
) There is ths distrit } ution assnmed by which the electric CUl'rents flow in rectangular paths similar to the of the plane of section On the assumption that the rate of cntting lines of force is proportional to the distance from the centre of a plate , and that the distribution of magnetism is such that any point in the plate is cutting lines of force during two-thirds of a revolution , and that for the remaining one-third revolution ths is travelling along the lines of force , Bailey has shown that , when is great compared with , ths average rate of dissipation of energy ubic centimetre of the plate is given in watts by the formula .
Assume that the cylinder rotates about its longitudinal axis in a truly uniform magnetic field .
Assume also with Bailey that the length of the path of the induced current and that the electric resistance of the path ohms .
The electromotive force in volts .
Then the total 1ate of dissipation of energy in watts ' ' Phil. Trans , vol. 187 ( 1896 ) , pp. 715\mdash ; 746 .
VOL. Prof. E. Wilson .
and this reduces to , when ; , when is greater than unity ; when is less than unity .
The average watts per cubic ce , ntimet ce of the cylinder as given by the above formulae are 716 when 19 when When the value of is small indeed .
By modifying the expression for the resistance of the rectangular path , Mr. Dale shows that the watts per cubic centimetre when , and when is much greater than unity .
( 2 .
) There is the distribution assumed in connection with the experiments , that is , the induced currents distribute ohemselves on the surfaces of cylinders similar to and concentric with the cylinder experimented upon .
Mr. Dale has dealt with this case theoretically for a uniform magnetic field , and shows that the watts per cubic centimetre of the cylinder when , and when is much greater than unity .
The former coefficient is in very good agreement with the graphical resuIt , which is ( 3 .
) There is the case in which the current density in any path is constant throughout the whole length of the path .
Mr. Dale has also dealt with this case theoretically and sbows that the watts per cubic celltimetre when , and when n is much greater than unity .
Dissipation of Energy by eriment with Theory .
In Table I the formula , multiplied by the volume of the half cylinder , is used , in which is the maximum average value of the intensity of magnetic induction given by coil No. 4 .
It will be seen that experiment gives a lower value for the total watts in the half cylinder than the formula , and this is to be expected from the waveform .
At 49- seconds periodic tims and maximum average induction density for coil 5900 , the ratio of the watts given by theory and experiment is , which is much larger than the average .
The explanation is that the magnetic induction is crowded to the surface of the cylinder , and as the wave-form for this portiQn is more nearly rectangular , the result is to make the watts given by experiment latively smaller .
At periodic time 90 seco1lds we see the same influence at work when maximum average induction density givcn by coi14 6700 .
On the hand , there is no great between the results at 360 and 45 seconds periodic time with approximately uniform distribution of the intensity of magnetic agnetic Force .
F ; eming gives the expression in a miformagnetic field for the watts dissipated by induced currents per cubic centimetre of a cylinder to which an alternating magnetic force is applied whose direction is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the cylinder .
The diameter of the cylinder is centimetres , and the other symbols represent the same quantities as before .
This form for frequency 129 and ohm is approximately verified experiment .
The following results were ) tained with a cylinder of mild steel 4 inches cm .
diameter , and have been extended to ) case of a cylinder cm .
diameter on the assunlption that sinnlar electric and agnetic events happen in cylinders of different meters at varying inversely as the square of their meters : * Scc ' The Alternate nsformer , ' vol. 2 , p. 487 .
See Hopkinson ) ilson , ' Phil. ) , pp. Prof. E. Wilson .
Tnrning from round wires to plates , in which the cross-section normal to the lines of force has a length great as compared with its thickness , Steinmetz , and Thomson agree in giving for the watts per cubic centimetre .
A plate would , therefore , dissipate nearly times as much energy in a given time as a wire having a diameter to the thiokness of the plate .
Fields .
have seen that the resuIts of theory are fairly well verified by experiment .
It remains to extend the formulae to cases actually met with in the construction of dynamo electric machinery .
It is reasonto assume that the electric currents distribute themselves in paths such that constant current density is preserved .
The formula may be taken to apply with a good deal of certainty in the case of circular plates in which the diameter is great as compared }with the thickness , and in which the lines of force are uniformly distributed in the plane of the plate .
Comparing this with the formula for alternating magnetic force , we may say that the rotating field would dissipate about times as much energy in a given time as the alternating magnetic field .
It should be remembered , however , that even when the lines of force are confined the plane of the plate , the dissipation of energy for a given average induction density may be considerably reduced if the distribution i8 such as to give the induced electromotive force a more rectangular wave-form .
Some time agoS I tried to account for the loss in a smooth-core drum armature , in which the magnetic field was distributed Prof. E. approximately as in these experiments .
Bringing to bear the of Professor Baily 's experiments on the dissipation of energy magnetic hysteresis in rotating magnetic fields and the results at in this paper , I am still unable to account for the observed the assumption that the plates are insulated one another .
dynamo-electric machines , where approximate uniform rotating are met with , the construction does not lend itsslf to such perfect tions as , for instance , in the case of alternate current transformer It is doubtful if the lines of force are always confined to the If one considers the section of an armature core in which ventilating spaces are provided , it is highly probable that at the ends of the core and at each ventilating space there is a considerabls axial component , which would at once give rise to a serious increase in the dissipation of energy by induced ourrents .
The teeth are sometimes filed out after placing the plates in position , and may lead to considerable ductivity normal to the plane of the plate .
Then , again , the plates not always insulated from the shaft or spider which supports them .
In multipolar it is questionable if one ever meets with a fair approximation to a uniform rotating field .
Longitudinal Variation of of In the previous paper it was stated that the intensity of magnetic induction diminishes in value and suffers in phase as one proceeds from either end of the cylinder along its longitudinal axis towards the centre , in much the sams way as was observed radially in a plane at right-angles to the longitudinal axis and midway between the ends of the cylinder .
This statement rested upon a comparison of the electromotive force of coil I with that of coil 1 .
In the presenb experiments an opportunity to examine this further was given , and coi13 ' ( fig. 1 ) was wound round an area .
cm .
at the end of the cylinder .
The maximum values of the induction density over this area are given in Table I , so that a comparison can be made with the maximum value of the intensity of induction at the centre ( coil 1 ) .
The phase-displacements are also given .
The results further confirm the statement made in the previous paper .
C'onclusion .
In my former paper I omitted to thank Professor Capper for the loan of the worm and worm-wheel used in these experiments .
I have pleasure in doing so now .
I have also pleasure in acknowledging the help I received from Mr. F. S. Robertson , and Messrs. M. S. Duffitt and R. M. Wartze .
I wish tu mention the intelligent interest taken by Mr. Duffitt in the theoretical of the work , the patience and care Mr. lVartze lgiven to the working out of results .
Mr. T. has again rendered valuable assistance .
'Phil .
Trans vol. ( 1896 ) , p. 723 .
The of Bnergy by Electric Currents .
Theoretical Appendix .
J. B. DALE , M.A. 1 .
The rotation of a conducting sphere in a magnetic field is discussed by J. J. Thomson ( ' Eesearches in Electririty , ' p. 546 ) .
When the sphere is rotating about the axis of , in a uniform magnetic field of force parallel to , the values of the current components when is very small are , being the angular velocity and the radius .
In the case of an iron sphere we may take , and the current components are approximately The currents therefore flow in circles in planes parallel to , having their centres on the axis of Integrating round a circle the value of the E.M.F. is found to be .
This is likewise the value of the on the assumptionhat the circuit is insulated and rotating a fielrl of magnetic induction equal to that in the sphere at rest .
The rate of heat production taken throughout the volume of the sphere .
Transforming to polar co-ordinates this becomes Writing for where is the frequency , we find for the rate of heat production per cubic centimetre , 3 .
where is the induction when the sphere is stationary .
2 .
In the case of a cylinder rotating about its axis of figure in a uniform magnetic field at right angles to the axis , we may assume , in analogy with the result for a sphere , that the induced currents late in planes parallel to the axis and the magnetic force , and that the Fj .
M.F. in any circuit is the same as that which would ) induced in the circuit supposed insulated and rotating in the magnetic field which exists in the cylinder at rest .
The form of the stream lines in any plane section is .
It is reasonable to assume that they ars approximately rectangular .
Prof. E. Wilson .
Different assumptYons may be made regardirig the law of formation the rectangular circuits .
We shall assume , ( l ) that in any section the currents flow in rectangles similar to the boundary of the section ; ( 2 ) the currents flow on the surfaces of cylinders similar to the cylinder ; ( 3 ) that the current density in any circuit is constant throughout that and compare the results obtained for the value of the rate of heat production according as one or other of these hypotheses is adopted .
3 .
Take axes through the centre of the cylinder , the axis of rotation , paraIlel to the magnetic induction in the cylinder .
Let cm .
be the radius , and ma cm .
the length of the cylinder , the velocity .
In a section PNP ' distant cm .
from the axis , assume that the currents flow in circuits similar to the boundary of the section .
Let NL cm .
, then NQ cm .
If is the magnetic induction , and the specific resistance of the material in ohms , the .
in the circuit QLQ ' .
volt , and the resistance Hence the rate of dissipation of energy in watts per cubic centimctre This may be integrated by substituting for , and the result is The Dissipation of Elcctric Currents .
71 When , this is equaI to When is small , the expression tends to 4 .
When the currents are assumed to flow in cylindrical shells similar to the original , let cm .
be the length .
The radius of the shell cm .
The thickness of the plane end is Sz , and of curved surface Denoting by ( i ) , the E.M.F. round the elementary circuit The resistance of the circuit The dissipation of energy in per cubic centimetre is When , this is to or When is very small the is approximately 5 .
When the current in any section is assumed to be of uniform density throughout , the rectangular circuit must be such that QL being this circuit QP , fig. ( ii ) .
The area enclosed by when circuit is , or , and the length , or ' ( ) , Prof. E. Wilson .
the form or being taken according as is less or greater .
Hence the rate of dissipation of energy in watts per cubic centimetre is , where and When is greater than unity the integral alone is taken , the limits of being and To integrate A with respect to , let and Then or , restoring the values of and ( C ) ( D ) .
A similar substitution in yields as the resuIt of integration , with respect to ma ( D ) .
Since ( C ) and ( C ) are identical in form , we can combine them , and integrate with respect to from to Let , and denoting by and by , we obtain ( E ) .
By the same substitution and assume the forms . . . .
( F ) , by Electric where the limits in when are and .
Taking this case first and by parts , ( H ) , .
The integrated part vanishes at the limits , and the remainder on integration becomes where ) .
In the particular case when , the value is\mdash ; . . .
The value of the series \mdash ; can be found to be .
Hence we obtain for the number of watts\mdash ; 4 .
Dr. A. D. Waller .
The integration of and when is troublesome , but when is sufficiently small , we may withoub much error neglect , and integrate from to . . .
Adding ( E ) and ( M ) obtain " " On Skin Currents.\mdash ; Part III .
The Human Skin By ALGUSTUS D. WALLEB , M.D. , F.RS .
eceived March 17 , \mdash ; Read April .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of the University of London .
) The purport of the following observations was to examine on humaJl skin the electrical ions described in previous communications in the case of frog 's skin , and in that of the cat 's skin .
\mdash ; The phenomena are in ] the main similar under similar conclitions , , in the case of a freshly removed healthy skin ained from the operating theatre , the normal current is always ingoing , and the nor1nal response is always outgoing .
In a series of observations\mdash ; with values noted for an ingoing current of between and volt\mdash ; the response has appeared to be quite independent of the magnitude of normal current , and to stimulation has usually been from to volt .
As in case of the frog 's skin , the response to single induction shocks has been the positive or outgoing direction , to both directions of exoiting current .
Tetanising cul.rents ( make and break induction shocks of alternating direction at a frequency of about 60 per sec. ) give therefore a summabed itive effect .
At the outset of my experiments on.human skin I encountered doubt and difficulty by ceason of the fact that I set myself the diflicult problem of determini11g as far as possible its of survival , by so doing had to deal with cases where a reaction of low voltage is apt to be masked by admixture of polarisation currents .
In my experience , healthy skin from the operating theatre , tested hours after operation , has always nlanifcsted indubitable signs of life , and by indubitable I mean a * ' Roy .
Soc. , vol. 68 , p. 480 ; vol. 69 , p. 171 .

