Observations on ike Development of 313 We desire to express our indebtedness to Professor Anderson Stuart , in whose laboratory most of our work has been done , and to Dr. Gf .
H. E. Nut tall , whose book has been of great service in giving an account of the work of other observers whose original communications we have been unable to consult .
Observations on the Development Ornithorhynchus .
By J. T. Wilson , M.B. , Professor of Anatomy , and J. P. Hill , D.Sc .
, Lecturer on Embryology , University of Sydney , N.S.W. ( Communicated by Sir William Turner , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received December 5 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) The paper treats of certain stages in the intrauterine development of the egg of Ornithorhynchus .
The stages dealt with include the following:\#151 ; ( 1 ) An early ( eight-celled ) stage of segmentation .
( 2 ) A stage manifesting a later phase of the segmentation-process .
( 3 ) A. stage of early germinal-layer formation , in which the cellular blastoderm is almost exclusively arranged in the form of a much-attenuated epithelial membrane covering part of the yolk-mass .
The arrangement on the whole resembles that illustrated in fig. 22 , Taf .
8 , and fig. 33 , Taf .
9 , in R. Semon 's work on " Monotreme Development."* Certain differences are , however , noticeable , more especially as regards the absence of the deeply placed nuclei figured by Semon .
( 4 ) A stage of more advanced germinal-layer formation , characterised by the complete differentiation of the yolk-entoderm and of a lenticular mass of cells connected with the outer layer of the vesicle , which would seem to represent an early condition of " primitive knot " formation .
This stage represents that of the completed " first phase , of gastrulation .
" ( 5 ) A stage exhibiting the characteristics of the " second phase of gastrulation .
" These include the presence of a fully-developed " primitive knot " which may henceforth be designated as " archenteric , " owing to the formation in connection with it , by invagination , of an " archenteric , " or " gastrulation -cavity .
" Meanwhile there lias also developed\#151 ; quite independently of , and * ' Zool. Forschungsreisen in Australien , ' etc. , 1894 , Bd .
2 , Lief .
1 .
VOL. LXXVIII.\#151 ; B. 2 B Prof. J. T. Wilson and Dr. J. P. Hill .
[ Dec. 5 , .
remote from , the primitive or archenteric knot\#151 ; a primitive streak , of typically mammalian character .
( 6 ) A stage which , for convenience of classification , is termed by the authors the " postgastrular .
" This is characterised , alia , by the presence of a greatly elongated area of axial differentiation consisting of a primitive streak , together with a " Hensen 's knot " and a long " archenteric plate , " the two latter structures being derivatives of the " primitive " or " archenteric " knot of the preceding period .
The archenteric plate ends anteriorly in an expanded " protochordal-plate " segment .
In this stage the primitive streak has practically retained its earlier form and dimensions , but it is now contiguous to , and has the ajjpearance of being continuous with , the posterior end of the thickening of " Hensen 's " ( archenteric ) knot .
The " archenteric plate " is derived from the dorsal wall of a greatly elongated archenteric canal ( i.e. , the archenteric invagination-cavity of the preceding stage ) .
From this archenteric plate are derived both the chorda-Anlage and also , laterally to this , a small amount of " gastral " mesoderm .
( 7 ) A " neurular " stage is described , in which the medullary plate is present as a completely flattened and spatulate structure .
This is expanded , in the head-region , into a wider " cephalic plate .
" This again is divisible into two divisions which seem to correspond to the " archencephalon " and the " deuteroencephalon , " respectively , of von Kupffer .
The cephalic plate further exhibits a series of neuromeric segments , all of which , with the exception of the most anterior , belong to the region of the " deuteroencephalon .
" One neuromere , on account of its relations to the acustico-facial ganglion , is designated as " facial .
" In front of this neuromere at least five " prefacial " neural segments are met with , whilst behind the same " facial " neuromere three definite " postfacial " neuromeres are encountered .
In the posterior region of the cephalic portion of the medullary plate , indications are to be found , in the case of slightly younger specimens , of the existence of additional " postfacial " segments behind the persistent 3rd postfacial neuromere .
Laterally from the margins of the cephalic medullary plate there are found , on each side , three ganglionic plate-like expansions of the " neural crest .
" These represent the rudiments of the trigeminal , acustico-facial , and vago-glossopharyngeal ganglia .
The relations of these ganglionic plates with the various neuromeres are as follows : The facial neuromere is connected with the " pedicle " of the acustico-facial ganglion , which at this period consists of a tract of cellular 1905 .
] Observations on the Development of 315 tissue .
Of the three definite postfacial neuromeres the 1st or most anterior has no recognisable ganglionic connection at the stages examined .
The 2nd and 3rd postfacial neuromeres are connected laterally with the vago-glosso-pliaryngeal ganglionic plate .
Of the five prefacial neuromeres , the 1st , i.e.r the one immediately in front of the facial neuromere , has at no time any ganglionic connection , and lies opposite the hiatus between the trigeminal and the acustico-facial ganglionic plates .
The next succeeding neuromeres in front of the 1st , i.e. , the 2nd to the 5th prefacial neuromeres , are each connected laterally with the broad basal portion , or wide " pedicle , " of the trigeminal ganglionic plate .
The following points of more special interest amongst those set forth in the extended paper may here be specified .
( a ) The very early differentiation of the layer of yolk-entoderm surrounding the yolk-mass of the monotreme egg .
( b ) The original entire independence of the primitive streak from the primitive knot and its " gastrulation-cavity .
" ( c ) The subsequent intimate approximation of these structures .
( d ) The early appearance of an area of special differentiation in the vicinity of the primitive streak , in the early blastoderm ; and the later conversion of this " primitive-streak-area " into an " embryonic area " proper , by the annexation of the region surrounding the " primitive " or " archenteric " knot .
( e ) The precise mode of disappearance of the ventral wall , or floor , of thn archenteric or invagination-cavity .
( / ) The occurrence of peculiar segmental cell-masses in the substance of the " primitive knot , " where that constitutes the parietes of an archenteric canal or its representative .
( g ) The diagrammatically clear demonstration of various features of neural development , including : the well-marked neuromeric segmentation of the cephalic region of the flattened medullary plate ; the differentiation of early plate-like ganglionic expansions of the neural crest in the cephalic region ; the presence of various cellular connections between the cephalic ganglionic plates and certain of the neuromeric segments of the medullary plate .
( li ) The relative insignificance of the " archencephalic " subdivision of the cephalic portion of the medullary plate , from which the fore-brain and most , if not all , of the mid-brain , are derived .

