]\gt ; 344 Miss F. Isaac .
llisation , etc. , of Mixtures very steady state by the time the final experiments were made .
some irregularity took place when new knife-edges were used , due no doubt to the wearing off of some slight " " burr\ldquo ; left on the edge during sharpening .
: !
- The pendulum was sensitive to sudden variations of the weather .
It would be a great advantage to enclose the apparatus in a case kept at constant temperature and pressure .
A somewhat improved method of removing and replacing the bob is also desirable .
In conclusion , the writer wishes to express his best thanks to Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson for his unfailing kindness throughout the course of this investigation .
On the Spontaneous the Melting Freezing Point of Mixtures of Two Subst ances which form Mixed Crystals possess a Minimum or Eutectic Freezing Point.\mdash ; JPixtures of Azobenzene Benzytniline .
By Miss F. ISAAC , formerly Research Fellow of Somerville College .
( Communicated by Principal H. A. Miers , F.R.S. Received June 21 , \mdash ; Read June 30 , 1910 .
) CONTEN TS .
PAG13 Crystalline Form of Benzylaniline and Azobenzene 345 Microscopic Examination of Azobenzene and Benzylaniline crystallised from Fusion 346 Mixtures of Azobenzene and Benzylaniline 347 The Freezing Point Curve 348 The Melting Point Curve 348 Analysis of the Mixed Crystals Microscopic Examination of Mixtures of Azobenzene and Benzylaniline crystalhsed from usion The Supersolubility Curve , or Curve of Spontaneous Crystallisation 356 ( 1 ) By the Method of Sealed Tubes ( 2 ) From Observations of the Refractive Indices of Liquid Mixtures 357 Nature of the Crystals separating on the Supersolubility Curve 360 Thin Sections cut from Solidified Mixtures of Azobenzene and Benzylaniline 366 Conclusion The behaviour of mixtures of naphthalene and -naphthol has already been investigated , and the freezing melting point curves and the curve of 1910 .
] of Two which form Mixed Crystals , etc. spontaneous crystallisation for these mixtures described .
* These substances were found to form a continuous series of mixed crystals , on a curve of Type 1 , the melting and freezing points of all the mixtures lying between the melting points of the pure substances .
The behaviour of mixtures of monochloracetic acid and naphthaleue was also ated , for it was stated by Cady that these substances form mixed crystals of Roozeboom 's Type 5 , whose melting and freezing point curves exhibit a minimum or eutectic point .
Experiments were therefore made with these substances with the object of determining the form of the curve of spontaneous crystallisation , or supersolubility curve , for mixtures of this type .
No sign of the formation of any mixed crystals observed , however , in a lengthy series of expeliments , and it was shown that naphthalene and monochloracetic acid give the ordinary -shaped point curve for the solutions of two substances in each other , similar to that already obtained for mixtures of salol and betol , S the only new feature being introduced by the existence of three modifications of monochloracetic acid .
The monochloracetic acid and naphthalene mixtures having thus failed as an example of mixed crystals possessing a minimum 01 ' eutectic point , other attempt was made to obtain a pair of substances with convenient melting points which form mixed crystals and possess the melting and freezing point curves with minimum eutectic point characteristic of Roozeboom 's Type 5 .
Azobenzene and benzylaniline were chosen for this purpose , the present paper deals with mixtures of these substances .
CRYSTALLINE FORM 0F BENZYLANILINE AND AZOBENZENE .
Benzylaniline , ) been described by Jaeger obtained transparent colourless crystals from a solution in methylalcohol .
He found the crystals to be monoclinic , with axial ratios\mdash ; and The habit is elongated along the -axis , the plane of the optic axes being ( 010 ) .
The axial dispersion is strong , with Azobenzene , , has been described byBoeris , and by Calderon .
' Journ. Chem. Soc 1908 , vol. 93 , 1 , p. 927 .
Phil. Trans 1909 , , vol. 209 , p. 33 Journ. Phys. Chem 1899 , vol. 3 , p. 127 .
S 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1907 , , vol. 79 , p. 322 .
' Zts .
fur Kryst 1907 , vol. 42 , p. 265 . .
fur Kryst 1901 , vol. 34 , p. 301 .
'Zts .
fur Kryst 1880 , vol. 4 , p. 234 .
solution in acetic ether , which he describes as monoclinic , with axial ratios\mdash ; and The plane of the tic axes is perpendicular to ( 010 ) , and nearly parallel to ( 001 ) , and there is considerable axial dispersion , .
Jaeger*points out hat , it is possible by a suitable choice of ametral faces to obtain similar axial ratios for the crystals of benzylaniline and azobenzene , ( Azobenzene Benzylaniline : yet this would require an unnatural position for the crystals , high indices for some of the forms observed , so that the relation between the two substances is a somewhat distant one .
Jaeger gives the ] ting points of pure azobenzene and benzylaniline as and .
He also gives the melting points of a few mixtures of these substances , which he states form mixed crystals and show a minimum eutectic point .
He obtained mixed crystals of azobenzene and benzylaniline from solution in alcohol and chloroform as small red needles , which were strongly pleochroic , but unsuitable for crystallographic investigation .
gives the melting point of azobenzene as , while PickeringS gives Nfixtures of azobenzene and benzylaniline have also been investigated by Bruni and Gorni and by Garelli and Calzolari ; these authors do not , however , oive any poin ts for actual mixtures , but state that azobenzene and benzylaniline form mixed crystals , and exhibit abnormal cryoscopic behaviour .
MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION or AZOBENZENE AND BENZYLANILINE BYSTALLISED FROM FUSION .
In the present investigation azobenzene and benzylaniline were first examined under the microscope as a thin film crystallised from fusion on a microscope slide under a cover glass . .
cit. 'Zts .
fur Kryst 1907 , vol. 42 , p. 265 .
'Zts .
fur Kryst 1880 , vol. 4 , p. 234 .
S PhiL Mag ( 5 ) , 1895 , vol. 39 , p. 610 .
'Real .
Accad .
dei Lince 1899 , vol. 8 , pp. 454 and 470 .
'Real .
Accad .
dei Lincei , ' 1899 , vol. 8 , p. 579 , and 'Gazetta , ' 1910 .
] of Two Substances form Mixed , etc. 347 Azobenzene appears as stout radiating prisms and irregular plates of a fine orange colour .
The plates and most of the prisms are stl.ongly pleochroic , the ours being and yellow .
The extinction of the prisms is usually straight or nearly so , but on some it is oblique with angles ranging to about .
Many of the prisnoe do not become dark at all , but show a strong red and green coloration about the position of extinction , .
to strong dispersion of the optic axes .
With convergent , some of the prisms with straight extinction show an interference figure resembling that of brookite , with a positive acute bisectrix in the centre of the field .
The optic axial plane is parallel to the length of the prisms , and the dispersion , the crystals being nearly uniaxial for red light .
The plates commonly show , in sodium light , hyperbolic bands indicating the htly o lique emergence of an obtuse bisectrix or third mean line .
These appearances agree with the description of the crystals given by Boeris , prismatic outlines being due to a vertical or oblique position of the thin tabular crystals .
Benzylaniline , examined in the same way , showed stout colourless blades growing radially from centres , with approximately straight extinction .
In convergent light the needles show a wide angle ative bisectrix , nearly central , the axial plane being perpendicular to the length of the needles .
In some of the needles a optic axis is visible at the edge of the field .
The plates and needles of azobenzene and benzylaniline obtained from fusion on the microscope slide rarely possess angles measurable under the microscope , their being rounded or ragged .
fo1med in drops of azobenzene dissolved in benzene or alcohol were also examined under the microscope .
They were rhombs with an angle of and diagonal extinction .
Viewed in these rhombs owed obtuse bisectrix or third mean line .
Drops of benzylaniline dissolved in toluene or ether gave needles with angle of approximately,.the extinction being always parallel to the length of the needles .
Viewed in convergent light these needles showed a normally bisectrix , both optic axes being visible .
MIXTURES OF AZOBENZENE AND Mixtures of azobenzene and benzylaniline were next investigated , and the freezing and melting point curves for these mixtures were determined .
348 Miss F. Isaac .
Crystallisation , etc. , of Mixtures [ June The Freezing Point Curve .
To obtain the freezing point curve the mixtures varying in concentration from 100 per cent. azobenzene to 100 per cent. benzylaniline were enclosed in sealed glass tubes .
Each mixture was heated in a water bath until it was completely melted , with the exception of one or small crystals at one end of the tube .
These crystals were watched with a lens as the temperature of the bath was lowered , until a temperature was reached at which equilibrium was found to exist between them and the liquid mixture .
This temperature , at which the crystals neither grew nor dissolved , was taken as the freezing point of the mixture .
This method has been fully The results obtained appear tabulated below:\mdash ; These freezing points , when plotted on the concentration-temperature diagram , give the ordinary -shaped freezing point curve , with a minimul ) or eutectic point at for the mixture 81 per cent. benzylaniline , 19 per cent. azobenzene .
On the side which shows excess of benzylaniline this curve is almost a straight line , but on the side showing excess of azobenzene the curve is slightly concave towards the concentration axis .
The Melting Point Curve .
To obtain the melting point curve the same tubes were used as in the experiments on the freezing point curve .
The tubes containing the various mixtures were heated in turn and shaken until the crystals had completely nlelted .
Each tube was then cooled , and the liquid mixture allowed to 'Journ . .
Soc 1908 , vol. 93 , 1 , p. 931 .
1910 .
] of Two Substances Hixed Crystals , etc. 349 solidify completely .
As with all substances forming mixed crystals , the solid first deposited differs in composition from the original liquid , and as the temperature continues to fall , different mixed crystals form , whose composition approximates more and more nearly to that of the liquid , until the very last mixed crystals that form should have the exact composition of the original liquid taken .
Crystals of this composition , therefore , have a lower melting point than any of those previously deposited .
When the mixture was completely solid the tube was immersed in a cold water bath , the of which was raised very slowly while the solid mixture was watched carefully with a lens .
At first the mixtnre is quite compact and solid , but when the temperature has been raised to a certain point some of the crystals are seen to begin to melt ; parts of the mixture appear slightly sticky ; and , on further raising the tenlperature very slightly , if the tube be inverted a little liquid stream starts down the sides .
This point is taken as the melting point of a mixture whose composition is the same as that of the original liquid taken .
The melting point curve thus obtained agrees very approximately with some later experiments described on pp. 352-4 , in which the point curve was obtained directly by analysis of the mixed crystals .
Each experiment was repeated several times , and the temperatule at which melting was first observed was very carefully noted .
All the points are thus etermined with rising temperature , the following being the tabulated results:\mdash ; When plotted on the concentration-temperature diagram these points glve the complete point curve .
all mixtures of azobenzene and benzylaniline .
As will be seen from the , part of the melting VOL. LXXXIV.\mdash ; A. 2 benzylaniline , and per cent. azobenzene per cent. benzylaniline , start melting at the same temperature , .
Hence , no mixed crystaJs are deposited on the side of the eutectic weak in azobenzene , only pure benzylaniline , which grows as soon as the temperature given by the point curve is reached , until the mixture reaches the eutectic composition , the rest of the liquid solidifies as a mixture of pure benzylaniline with the mixed crystals containing 35 per cent. azobenzene and 65 per cent. benzylan iline , whose melting point is .
This result is confirmed by the ) icroscopic examination of the solidified mixtures as described below .
On the other side of the eutectic , however , in mixtures containing excess of azobenzene , a series of mixed crystals are formed which contain from 100 per cent. to 30- per cent. of azobenzene .
As has been shown above a mixture of approximately 81 per cent. benzylaniline 19 per cent. azobenzene freezes at , where the curve exhil ) a eutectic point .
A mixture of this composition , therefore , melts and freezes very approximately at the same temperature .
This is the invariant point , and on either side of it different solids exist in equilibrium with the liquid .
At this point four phases can co-exist , namely , mixed crystals containing 35 per cent. of azobenzene , pure benzylaniline , liquid solution , and vapour .
The melting point curve was not at first obtained in the form here described .
In the first experiments , the flat part of the curve which extends from 65 to 100 per cent. of benzylaniline , appeared only to extend from 65 to 85 percent .
of benzylaniline .
Mixtures containing between 85 and 975 per cent. benzylaniline , which were allowed to solidify spontaneously in a sealed tube and were then reheated , appeared to start melting at temperatures varying from to , instead of at , as subsequently found .
As plotted , therefore , the point curve pointed to the existence of two series of mixed crystals , one on each side of the eutectic .
there careful experiments showed , however , that mixed crystals do not really separate on the side of the eutectic containing excess of benzylaniline , but pure benzylaniline only .
Experiments made under the microscope by examining the crystals from drops of these mixtures on a slide , showed that the hrst Stals separating from mixtures more than 81 per cent. of benzylaniline are pure white in colour , and show no trace of the orange colour of the azobenzene , and are therefore probably pure benzylamline .
But , if pure benzylaniline only is first deposited from these mixtures until the euteotic composition is reached , relnaining liquid will solidify as a mixture of pure benzylaniline with mixed crystals of composition 35 per cent. azobenzene 65 per cent. benzylaniline .
All.these mixtures , therefore , since they contain some proportion of mixed crystals of this composition , should start at .
As has been stated , this melting point was not at first noticed ; but , in some later experiments , it was found that if the tubes containing the ; mixtures with , and 10 per cent. of azobenzene wele melted so as ' ; to leave a few small crystals in the tube , and then allowed to solidify slowly at not too low a temperature , on tubes a slight elting does occur at .
On the other hand , if these same tubes eated until the mixtures are completely liquid , and are then cooled and shaken till they crystallise spontaneously at a low temperature , no can be detected at , but only at from to This discrepancy may , perhaps , be due to the fact that in the latter case the mixtures have crystallised spontaneously in the tubes at temperatures considerably lower than their freezing points .
The pure benzylaniline may have formed so suddenly and rapidly that the eutectic composition is overshot , so much benzylaniline coming out of solution that the remaining liquid contains a highel percentage of azobenzene than the eutectic , and consequently forms mixed crystals containing more than 35 per cent. azobenzene , which have higher melting points than .
When , however , the same mixtures are allowed to solidify slowly after inoculation with benzylaniline , as stated above , the true point is obtained .
In connection with this point it may here be mentioned that it was found possible later on , in some experiments described below , to separate the very first crystals which formed spontaneously in the mixtures of azobenzene and benzylaniline containing small peroentages of azobenzene .
If pure benzylaniline is first deposited from these mixtures , the melting point of the crystals which first form should be , the melting point of the pure benzylaniline .
It was found that the crystals thus separated from all mixtures on the benzylaniline side of the eutectic , after being washed with benzene to get rid of the mother liquor , all melt at .
Thus the first crystals forming spontaneously from all these mixtures have the melting point of pure benzylaniline , and consequently no mixed crystals are formed on this side of the eutectic , but crystals of pure benzylaniline only , in the usual manner of mixtures of two substances which yield the oldinary -shaped point curve .
In the experiments made to determine the freezing point curve , the mixtul.es were enclosed in sealed glass tubes , and the temperature of equilibrium was obtained between the liquid and a few small crystals of unknown constitution .
If no nlixed crystals are formed on the side of the eutectic showing excess of benzylaniline , the point curve on this part mixture and pure benzylaniline .
This was proved to be true by some further experiments , in which mixtures containing 5 , 10 , and 15 per cent. of azobenzene were placed in open test tubes , immersed in a water bath and inoculated with a minute crystal of benzylaniline .
The equiliblium points so obtained were found to agree with the freezing point curve obtained above .
Th Melting Point Curve Obtained by Analysing the Mixed Crysta:ls .
The method of experimenting described above for obtaining the melting point curve appears to be somewhat rough and unsatisfactory ; in order , therefore , to check and confirm this ourve , the melting points of mixed crystals of known composition were determined as follows:\mdash ; Mixtures of azobenzene and benzylaniline of various compositions were dissolved in benzene in a beaker , and the liquid was stirred regularly by means of a water motor while the benzene evaporated slowly .
The liquid inoculated with a minute mixed crystal , and as evaporation proceeded a crop of small crystals in equilibrium with the solution was slowly deposited and whirled about in the liquid .
When a sufficient quantity of crystals had formed , the solution was filtered off by means of an air pump , and the crystals obtained dry on the filter in a small platinum cone .
The crystals were then powdered in a mortar and placed in an exhausted desiccator for several hours to dry off the last traces of benzene .
Since these crystals represent a small crop grown from , and in equilibrium with , comparatively large volume of solution , they may be taken to be very approximately homogeneous .
If this is so , when placed in a capillary tube they will melt at an approximately constant temperature , and this was found to be usually the case .
When the temperature was not quite constant , but extended through a range of 1o or , the mean was taken to represent the true melting point .
The melting point for any crop bein ascertained , the crystals were next analysed in order to find their composition .
The analysis was carried out by extracting the benzylaniline from a known weight of the crystals with dilute hydrochloric acid , the azobenzene being left undissolved .
Three extractions in warm acid were found sufficient to dissolve all the benzylaniline , and the pure azobenzene left behind was dried and weighed .
In this manner the composition of the original crystals was obtained .
These experiments were repeated with a considerable number of different solutions of azobenzene and benzylaniline in benzene , each solution giving a different set of homogeneous mixed crystals .
From these experiments it 1910 .
] of Two Substances uhich form etc. is possible , therefore , to plot the point curve for the azobenzenebenzylaniline mixtures , since the composition and melting point of each homogeneous crop of mixed crystals are known .
The following are the details of these experiments:\mdash ; These results , when plotted on the concentration-temperature diagram , should give the melting point curve for the azobenzene-benzylaniline mixtures , each set of crystals giving a point on the curve .
Ihese points are all shown on the diagram by .
It will be seen that some of these points lie slightly above ) point curve obtained , though , the whole , the new experiments may be considered to confirm the original curve fairly well .
The later experiments seem to show , however , that the melting point curve , as plotted from the original experiments , is htly too low .
This result might have been expected from a consideration of the method employed , for it was assumed that the last drop of the liquid to solidify gives crystals having the original constitution of the liquid .
This would , no doubt , be the case if the cooling of the liquid were sufficiently slow , so that as the mixed crystals grew there was cient time for the equilibrium to be maintained by a continuous the crystals and the liquid .
But if the cooling is not sufficiently slow it is probable that the readjustment is incomplete , so that the last mixed crystals formed contain a slightly percen tage of benzylaniline than the original mixture .
These crystals would , therefore , have a slightly lower melting point than those having the composition of the liquid .
The later experiments , in which the mixtures were analysed , tend to sho that this is the case , although the discrepancy is very , and does not appear to amount to more than approximately 1o of temperature .
The , points for azobenzene and benzylaniline obtained above and .
On compariug these values with those previously obtained , and agree more nearly with those of Calderon and Pickering , who give the melting point of azobenzene as and respectively .
The slightly lower values obtained in these experiments would seem to indicate that in all probability some small amount of impurity exists in the substances used in this research .
We may also compare the melting points obtained by Jaeger for the few mixtures of azobenzene and benzylaniline he examined with those obtained above .
Jaeger 's values :It will be seen that these values for the rnelting points are considerably higher than those indicated by the diagram .
Microscopic mination of tures of Azobenzene and Benzcy tandine ystallised from Fusion .
A great number of drops of different mixtures were allowed to crystallise on the microscope slide at the temperature of the surrounding air , and the crystals were examined as they grew .
Various mixtul.es , containing 10 , 20 , 30 , 30- , 40 , and 60 per cent. of azobenzene , were examined in this way .
The crystal needles first forming in the 10 per cent. mixture were colourless , and some colourless crystals also appeared in the 20 per cent. mixture .
The remaining mixtures gave only coloured needles .
The crystal needles were always formed with their oblique ends rounded or ragged , so that it was impossible to measure their angles , and when the liquid drop has completely solidified they form a confused mass intersecting each other in all directions .
In all the mixtures the extinction was either straight or inclined at 1o or to the length of the needles .
Crystals grown from mixtures containing up to 30 per cent. azobenzene , when viewed in convergent light , usually showed both optic axes with the bisectrix nearly normal , although some of the needles showed only one optic axis on the edge of the field .
1910 .
] Two Substcmces lIixed C , etc. 355 Needles rown from mixtures containing over 30 per cent. azobenzene always showed one optic axis only on the of the field .
The axial plane vays appears to be nearly perpendicular to the length of the crystal needles .
That the rless crystals which first appear in the mixtures weak in azobenzene are pure benzylaniline , is indicated by their optical properties .
The coloured crystaJs in the other mixtures are probably mixed crystals of various compositions .
Some of these mixtures containing the proportions of Zobenzene are very viscous , and remain partly liquid under a cover glass at the of the room after crystallisation has first started on the oscope slide .
Although these experiments were repeated several times , the results obtained do not appear to lead to very definite conclusions , the crystal eedles being always ill-formed , with ragged edges .
The temperature at which the needles grew on the slide was about or , so that it was con- siderably lower than the temperature at any point of the freezing point curve .
The conditions of growth are therefore quite different , and these lower temperatures the composition of the crystals separating from any liquid may differ from the composition of crystals from a similar drop at temperatures between the and melting point curves determined above .
Supersolubilitly \ldquo ; of ontancons jstallisation .
The freezing and melting point curves for mixtures of azobenzene and benzylaniline been determine an attempt was next made to plot the curve of spontaneous crystallisation for these mixtures , as has already been done for of naphthalene and -naphthol .
Two methods of were employed , both of which have been used in the previous esearches with Prof. Miers on spontaneous crystallisation , .
: ( 1 ) the method of sealed tubes ; ( 2 ) the measurement of the 1efractive indices of cooling mixtures .
( 1 ) Scaled Azobenzene , benzylaniline , and their mixtures were enclosed in sealed lass tubes which also contained some angular ments of corundtun to en sure friction .
The tubes containing the various mixtures were then heated in a water bath with frequent shaking until all the crystals had completely melted .
The water bath then allowed to cool slowly , and as the temperatme fell the tubes were continuously , either by hand or on a rocking apparatus placed within the water bath .
With each mixture found that when the temperature had fallen to a certain point , a dense shower of crystals suddenly appeared in the tube and the whole mixture rapidly 356 Miss F. Isaac .
, etc. , of Mixtures [ June 21 , became solid .
The temperature at which the shower occurs depends upon the composition of the mixture , and was found to be approximately constant for each mixture . .
The experiment with each tube was , in eneral , repeated several times ; the following table gives all the results obtained from 16 tubes treated in this manner:\mdash ; These results , when plotted on the concentration-temperature give the complete supersolubility curve , or curve of spontaneous crystallisa- tion , for azobenzene , benzylaniline , and their mixtules .
Where there was a slight variation in the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation of a single tube , the temperature obtained has been always taken as the true temperature of spontaneous crystallisation ; in the other experiments the mixture must passed slightly into the labile state , probably in consequence of too rapid cooling .
This curve , which is shown on the diagram , separates the metastable and labile areas for all mixtures of azobenzene and benzylaniline .
Above this curve the mixed crystals cannot form spontaneously , although they after inoculation , but below it mixed crystals can , and do , form spontaneously in a shower .
As will be seen from the diagram the supersolubility curve runs roughly parallel to the freezing point curve .
On the left hand side of the eutectic composition it crosses the .
point curve twice , and on the hand side of the eutectic it again crosses the melting point curve .
Near the eutectic composition the supersolubility curve reaches a minimum , and for mixtures containing from 70 to 90 per cent. of benzylaniline the 1910 .
] of Two lohich forr Mixed ystals , etc. 357 supersolubility curve is very flat , temperatures of spontaneous crystallisation for these mixtures only varying about ( 2 ) The Refractive of \mdash ; An attempt was now made to verify the supersolubility curve just obtained by observing the sudden 'change in the index of refraction which takes place on the curve .
This method has been used before to obtain the supersolubility curve for mixtures of salol and betol and for various aqueous solutions of salts , \amp ; The liquid mixtures were heated and placed iu the of the inverted goniometer and their refractive indices determined as they cooled the method of total reflection within a dense glass prism immersed in the liquid .
With the aqueous solutions examined in this manner it was found that the refractive index rose steadily till the labile temperature reached .
Here a dense shower of crystals occurred , which soon settled at the ) oltom of the goniometer trough , the refractive index afterwards continually the temperature fell .
The mixtures of azobenzene and benzylaniline were examined in this manner from the time when the warn ] mixture was first placed in the until the dense shower occurred at the labile temperature .
As with the mixtures of salol and betol already examined , it almost impossible to determine the refractive index beyond this point , to the }lsit of the shower , the crystals remaining suspended in the liquid instead of to the bottom of the as with the aqueous solutions of , and thus rendering the mixtures almost opaque .
The mixtures of azobenzene and benzylaniline examined contained to 100 per cent. of benzylaniline .
In these it was found that the index rose gradually and as the temperature fell , until the dense labile shower of crystals occurred .
Mixtures containing more than 50 per cent. of azobenzene were not examined , as they were somewhat viscous , and consequently intense concentration streams arise , which cause ritiesn in the index-temperature curves , and also because their temperatures of spontaneous crystallisation render them unsuitable for use in the goniometer trough .
As the mixtures cooled in the trough they were con tinually by means of a small platinum vane driven by an electric motol .
The liquid mixtures being somewhat deep red in colour , it was found that the monochromatic light of the sodium flame was nearly absorbed , and that the edge of the shadow total internal reflections could hardly be seen .
White light was therefore used to illuminate the prism , a piece of ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 190 , vol. , p. 322 ; Jourll .
Chem. Soc 1908 , vol. 93 , p. 384 .
occurring in the mixtures at the labile temperature is always accompanied by a considerable rise in temperature .
The following are the general results of the experiments on the refractive indices of mixtures of azobenzene and benzylaniline .
Experiment l.\mdash ; Azobenzene per cent. Benzylaniline The index rose from at to at .
A dense shower occurred at and the temperature rose to Experiment 2.\mdash ; Azobenzene per cent. approx. Benzylaniline The index rose from at to at .
A dense shower occurred at , the temperature rising to Experiment 3.\mdash ; Azobenzene per cent. approx. Benzylaniline \ldquo ; The index rose from at to at .
A very dense shower occurred at , the temperature rising to Experiment 4.\mdash ; Azobenzene per cent. Benzylaniline The index rose from at to at .
A shower of crystals occurreJ at and the temperature rose to Experiment 5.\mdash ; Azobenzene per cent. Benzylaniline The index rose from at to at .
A shower of crystals occurred at and the temperature rose to Experiment 6.\mdash ; Azobenzene per cent. Benzylaniline The index rose from at to 1.62937 at .
A slight shower began to form spontaneously at and became gradually denser without change of temperature .
Experiment 7.\mdash ; Azobenzene per cent. approx. Benzylaniline , , The index rose from at to at .
A shower of crystals occurred at and the temperature rose to Experiment 8.\mdash ; Azobenzene per cent. Benzylaniline The index rose from at to at .
A shower occurred at the temperature rising to and the index .
At the index had fallen to 1910 .
] of form .
359 Experiment 9.\mdash ; The same mixture wa used as iu Experiment 8 .
The index rose frolu at to at .
A dense shower occurred at , but no more readings for the index were possible .
The temperature rose to Experiment 10.\mdash ; Azobenzene per cent. zylaniline The index rose from at to at .
A shower of , occurred at and the temperature rose to 20 The index fell again during the shower and reached Experiment 1].\mdash ; Azobenzene per cent. approx. Benzylaniline The index rose from at to at dense shower of btals occurred at this temperature and no more readings were possible .
The temperature rose to Experiment 12.\mdash ; Azobenzene per cent. Benzylaniline The index rose from at to at .
A of crystials occurred at this temperature and the index fell with rise of temperature , reaching at Experiment 13.\mdash ; tzobenzene per cent. Benzylaniline The index rose from at to at .
A dense shower occurred at , the temperature rose to and the index fell to at temperature .
Experiment 14.\mdash ; Azobenzene per cent. Benzylaniline The index rose from at to at ystals first appeared at and a dense shower occurred at , the temperature then rising to From experiments 1 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 8 , 10 and 13 , in which the exact composition of the mixtures is known , it is possible to ascertain the refractive index of any given mixture at any temperature .
The results of all these experiments , taken ether , may be expressed by curves drawn with concentrations as abscissae and temperatures as ordinates , the refractive index being constant for each curve .
Such curves were drawn for the following values of index : , 1624 , .
They were found to be very approximately straight lines , equidistant and parallel to each other , and inclined to the concentration axis at an angle of , the scale chosen being such that 10 per cent. on the concentration axis corresponds to on the temperature axis .
, if a line be drawn on the concentrationtemperature perpendicular to these lines of constant index , and , therefore , inclined at an angle to the concentration axis , the refractive The curves of constant index are shown on the , and from these it is possible to plot the ] series of observations of refractive indices obtained in the above experiments .
( See p. 363 .
) These experiments give a number of curves , numbered 1 to 14 on the diagram , the number of the curve corresponding to the number of the experiment .
The curves show slight irregularities , especia ] lie at high temperatures .
These irregularities are probably due to concentration-streams , which are particularly marked when the liquid mixture is first introduced into the goniometer trough .
On the whole , however , the curves go straight down the and show very iittle variation in concentration as the mixtures cool , until the labile shower occurs at points which lie very approximately on the supersolubility curve already obtained by the method of sealed tubes .
These results , obtained from the refractive indices of the mixtures , therefore confirm those already obtained from the experiments with sealed tubes , by which the position of the supersolubility curve was first established .
In two or three of the experiments , in which it was possible to trace the refractive index after the labile shower had un , it was found that the index attained a maximum value on the supersolubility curve and then fell again with rise of ) perature and approached the freezing point curve .
This behaviour is seen in experiments 10 , 12 and 13 .
In eIleral , however , it is not possible to trace the change of index with any certainty after the shower has occurred , the shower being usually so dense as to render the mixture opaque .
The crystals which first separate from the mixtures during the showers were examined from time to time under the microscope , but no definite conclusions as to their nature could be drawn from the observations .
The crystals were always needles and showed straight extinction .
Their were never measurable under the microscope .
An interference was usually visible ; sometimes both optic axes were seen with the bisectrix normal , and sometimes only one optic axis was visible , surrounded by , the birefringence being always positive .
of the Crystats on the bility C The supersolubility curve hayincr been determined by the above experiments , an attempt was now made to ascertain the composition of the crystals which first form spontaneously on the supersolubility curve for various mixtures .
In order to do this for any mixture it is necessary to separate the first crystals which form in labile shower .
1910 .
] of Two Substances which form Crystals , etc. 361 )aratus was deyised by Prof. Bowman , A wide tube A is drawn out at the lower end to forul -tube , the end of which is bent again and passes through a into the tube D. This -tube is immersed in a large -bath E. Another tube passes the of the iube and connects it with the vacuum flask and air pump .
By means of the tap this connection may opened or closed at will .
At the bottom of the tube A is a porcelain filter-plate covered with a filter-paper .
The liquid to be experimented upon is placed in the -tube at a high temperature , the water-bath having been previously heated .
The liquid in the -tube is stirred continuously and steadily by means of a plunging irrel , driven by an electric motor .
By far the greater part of the liquid 1nixture is contained in the wide part A of the -tube , and is allowed to cool very slowly in the water-bath .
As soon as the liquid reaches the labile temperature a shower of crystals begins to form in the tube A. The tap is then immediately turned and the liquid mixture bucked off into the tube leaving the first crystals that form in the shower dry and free from mother liquor upon the filter-paper in A. A thermometer was placed in the waterbath , which was kept stirred throughout the experiment by the glass stirrer G. The melting point of the crystals left in the tube A was then obtained from time to time under the microscope , by which means the first melting .
at the edges of the als were easily detected .
It is necessary to catch the shower in the U-tube at once so as to separate the first crystals that form .
If the tap connecting the tube , A with the vacuum flask is not turned immediately the first crvstals appear , too much solid forms in , and the filter-paper is left with a large mass of crystals on it , instead of only the first few crystals which form .
Sometimes the liquid mixture solidifies at the narrow upper end of the -tube when running off into .
and this prevents the mother liquor from being properly drawn away from the first crystals on the filter .
Usually , , if the mixture is very carefully watched , it is possible to isolate the first crystals of the labile shower , and though they are always extremely small and brittle needles they have clear sharp , and appear quite free from the mother liquor .
The following results were obtained with this apparatus , the crystals being always examined in capillary tubes as stated above .
1 .
Mixture containing 40 per cent. benzylaniline ; 60 per cent. azobenzene .
\mdash ; This mixture was placed in the -tube at about and cooled slowly in the water-bath whilst it was stirred continuously .
It crystallised spontaneously very suddenly at a somewhat high temperature , , and it was found extremely difficult to draw off the mother liquor with sufficient rapidity to ensure the first crystals that formed being left clean on the filter .
The experiment had therefore to be repeated several times before any definite result was obtained .
At , however , the liquid was drawn off , a few of the very first crystals of the labile shower on the filter .
When examined in a capillary tube these showed a definite point at .
The shows thali mixed crystals whose point is have a composition approximately 35 per cent. benzylaniline , per cent. azobenzene .
This , therefore , appears to be the composition of the crystals separating spontaneously from a liquid mixture containing 40 per cent. benzylaniline and 60 per cent. azobenzene .
Another experiment with the same liquid mixture yielded a larger crop of crystals on the filter .
These appeared to be quite dry and free from mother liquor , but the melting point of different samples did not appear to be quite the crystals melting at , and .
The composition of these crystals would appear therefore to vary from 36 per cent. benzylaniline with 64 per cent. , to 34 per cent. benzylaniline with 66 per cent. azobenzene .
2 .
Mixture containing .
per cent. benzylaniline ; 50 per cent. azobenzene .
1910 .
] of Two Substances which , etc. 363 containing 50 per cent. azobenzene with 50 per cent. benzylaniline .
3 .
Mixture containing 61- ) per cent. benzylaniline ; 35 per cent. azobenzene .
\mdash ; This mixture was placed in the -tube at and stirred steadily .
A shower of crystals began to form at the labile temperature , and the first crystals were easily separated , since in this mixture the shower does not form so suddenly throughout the liquid as is the case with mixtures containing a higher of azobenzene .
Three samples were examined in capillary tubes and found to melt at temperatures between and their composition therefore varying from per cent. benzylaniline with per cent. azobenzene , to 61 per cent. benzylamline with 39 per cent. azobenzene .
4 .
Mixture per cent. benzylaniline ; 20- per cent. azobenzene .
\mdash ; This mixture was placed in the -tube at .
At a shower began to form in the tube .
This was separated from the rest of the liquid and the crystals examined in capillary tubes .
They were found to start melting at .
The capillary tubes must therefore contain some mixed crystals of constitution 65 per cent. benzylaniline , per cent. azobenzene , which melt at , and the limit beyond which mixed crystals are not formed , rest of the mixture in the capillary tubes presumably pure benzylaniline .
Another expeliment was made with the same mixture by the same method .
In this experiment it was noticed that the shower began to form at with a very few small needle-shaped crystals and radial groups , and a thick shower did not come down immediately .
These small crystals were separated in the usual way and washed with a few } ) of benzene while still on the filter in the -tube , the benzene being at once drawn off by means of the filter pump .
They were then examined under the cope and placed in capillary tubes .
Some of them were pure white in colour , and some showed traces of the orange colour of the azobenzene .
The colourless crystals in the capillary tubes when slowly heated in a water-bath showed no sign of melti1lg till the temperature was raised to , the .
point of pure benzylaniline .
The crystals which showed some sign of the azobenzene colour , however , all began to melt very slightly at .
It would therefore appear that the first crystals to 1910 .
of which .
form Mixed Crystals , etc. 365 form spontaneously from a mixture containing } ) cent. benzylaniline and 25 per cent. azobenzene consist of a mixture of pure benzylaniline and mixed crystals containing 35 per cent. azobenzene with 60- per cent. benzylaniline .
5 .
Mixture containing per cent. benzylaniline ; per cent. azobenzene.\mdash ; This mixture also was placed in the -tube at and stirred as it cooled from this temperature to in hours .
A slight shower commenced at , and was immediately separated from the rest of the liquid .
The crystals thus obtained showed some of the colour of the azobenzene , and examined in capillsry tubes to melt at .
They therefore probably contain some proportion of the mixed crystals of composition 35 per ceut .
azobenzene , 65 per cent. benz.ylaniline .
The experiment was repeated in the same way , but in this case the first crystals at were washed several times with benzene while still on the filter in the -tube .
When examined in capillary tubes these crystals did not melt till the temperature was raised to , and under the microscope they appeared to be pure white in colour .
Pure benzylaniline , therefore , apparently first separates spontaneously from this mixture , and if the crystals are freed from mother liquor by vashing with benzene , the point of pure benzylaniline is attained .
6 .
Mixture containing 90 per cent. benzylaniline ; cent. azobenzene .
\mdash ; This mixture was placed in the -tube at and cooled very A slight shower commenced at , the crystals of which were easily separated by means of the yacuum pump .
The crystals were small radial groups .
They were washed with benzene whilst still on the filter in the -tube , the benzene being at once drawn off with the vacuum pump .
These crystals were colourless , and when placed in capillary tubes melted at the melting point of pure benzylaniline .
If , however , the crystals were not washed with benzene before they were examined , they appeared to be yellowish in colour , and showed signs of melting at .
This would be accounted for by the presence of the mother liquor the crystals .
7 .
Mixture per cent. benzylaniline ; per cent. azobenzene.\mdash ; This mixture , placed in the -tube apparatus at about cooled in the same manner , gave a shower of crystal needles and radialgroups at the labile temperature , .
These were easily separated since the shower takes some time to thicken .
They were washed two or three times with a few drops of benzene whilst still on the filter in the -tube , and placed in capillary ) did not melt until the temperature was raised to .
They were also quite colourless , and were therefore apparently pure benzylaniline .
VOL LXXXIV.\mdash ; A. ) 366 Miss F. Isaac .
llisation , etc. , xtures [ June 21 , From these experiments it will be seen that in general , with mixtures which contain a larger amount of azobenzene than the eutectic composition , the crystals which first separate spontaneously on the supersolubility curve contain a larger percentage of azobenzene than does the original mixture .
In general , for such mixtures , the supersolubility curve was found to lie above the melting-point curve .
From the results obtained , efore , with these mixtures , we see that the composition of the first crystals separating spontaneously at any point on the supersolubility curve is very approximately given by drawing a line from this point parallel to the concentration axis to meet the melting point curve .
The point in which the line so drawn meets the melting point curve gives the approximate composition of the crystals which have first separated from the mixture under examination .
With mixtures which contain a larger amount of benzylaniline than the eutectic composition , however , the crystals which first separate have been shown above to be pure benzylaniline .
In the case of mixtures which approximate to the eutectic composition , it has been shown that the crystals first are frequently a mixture of pure benzylaniline with mixed crystals of 35 per cent. azobenzene and 65 per cent. benzylaniline , the limiting composition .
Thin Sections from Mixtures of Azobenzene and Benzylaniline .
An attempt was made to study the structure of a few of the solidified mixtures under the microscope .
To do this thin sections were made from the mixtures that had solidified completely in glass tubes .
The glass tube was broken and the solid rod of mixture removed .
Discs and longitudinal sections were cut from this with a fret-saw , and then ground on ground-glass plates until they were sufficiently thin and transparent for microscopic examination .
Sections were cut in this way from the following mixtures:\mdash ; 1 .
Mixture containing 30 per cent. azobenzene and 70 per cent. benzylaniline.\mdash ; This mixture crystallised spontaneously while shaken continually in a sealed tube .
When ground into thin sections showed a large quantity of yellow rod-shaped crystals small in size , and distributed irregularly all over the , also some radial groups growing from centres .
These are probably mixed crystals of the limiting composition , i.e. with 35 per cent. azobenzene and 66 per cent. benzylaniline .
The rest of the section is filled up with large colourless crystals of presumably pure benzylaniline .
Under the microscope these exhibit ophitic structure and extinguish in large patches all over the slide , and have probably grown at rest after the shower of mixed crystals has occurred .
This mixture was not ground into thin sections until it had been solid in a glass tube for several weeks .
2 .
Mixture containing 10 per cent. azobenzene and 90 per cent. benzylaniline.\mdash ; This mixture also crystallised spontaneously while shaken continually in a sealed tube .
This 1910 .
] of Substances for , etc. 367 section showed a mass of small white crystaIs , with small yellow crystals filling up the spaces between them .
No regular arrangement could be observed , and the were all more or rod shaped .
After this section had been left for four weeks at a temperature of about , it was observed that a new growth was taking piace at the surface of the section .
formed thin rods could be seen quite clearly , ving out of the solid , the rods being both yellow and white in colour .
3 .
lsIixture containing per cent. azobenzene and per cent. benzylaniline.\mdash ; CrystaFised pont tneously .
Sections cut from this mixture large , pure white crystals of benzylaniline , growing as large compact masses which exti u together , and also as large radial groups .
Small rod-shaped yellow fill up the gaps .
After these sections had been kept for a few weeks at about also showed tinct signs of egation .
Jder the high of the microscope thin rods can be seen growing up all over the surface of iihe sections .
4 .
Mixture containing 5 per cent. azobenzene and per cent. niline.\mdash ; Crystallised spontaneously while shaken continually .
Thin sections cut from this mixture much the appearance of the sections of ( 3 ) above , but the Cl.ystals are much smaller and arranged over the slide .
After keeping sections for some weeks at a temperature , they thin rods growing up over their urface when examined under the high power of the microsoope .
The study of the thin sections seems to indicate that , in mixtules wea in zene , changes take place in the solid solutions when they iven sufficient ti1ne .
It be seen this up , or ation , does appeal to occur in sections ( 1 ) above , but it is to be noted these secticn were not ground until the mixture had been solid for some weeks at tlJe emperature of the room , .
about .
It is probable , therefore , the change had already place before the section round , and that equilibrium had already been established between the solid solution and the benzylaniline at this temperature .
The sections ground within a few hours of having soJidified , so that the structures oserved would correspond to equilibrium at the temperatures ooiven by the supersolubility curve ; since , presumably , sufficient time had not elapsed for them to attain equilibrium at the temperature of the room .
Hence , begin to show themselves later in the solid section , readjustment of the components of the mixed crystals taking place until is finally established at the ordinary air temperature .
After the lapse of three winter months these sections were all examined under a high power .
lt was found that they had all undergone considerable further , and very little of their original structure was recognisable .
Sections ( 1 ) , which hree months before showed no sig of breaking up , had now entirely , and were riddled with minute crystal needles , both yellow and colourless .
It was also noted that in 368 of which form Mixed , several of the sections the small newly formed needles were arranged in parallel positions over the surface .
Conclusion .
The results obtained iu this researcl ] may be thus summarised:\mdash ; 1 .
The freezing and point curves for mixtures of azobenzene and benzylaniline have been determined , and it has been shown that these substances possess a minimum or eutectic point at for the mixture per cent. azobenzene and 81 per cent. benzylaniline , and form a series of mixed crystals on one side only of the eutectic , viz. , that with excess of azobenzene .
This is , therefore , a limiting case of oozeboom 's Type 5 , in which two substances , A and , possess freezing and melting point curves which exhibit a minimum eutectic point , and form two series of mixed crystals , .
mixed crystals excess of , and mixed crystals containing excess of B. 2 .
The point curve has been confirmed by actual analysis of the mixed crystals .
3 .
The supersolubility curve , or curve of spontaneous crystallisation , has been determined for these mixtures by two methods : ( 1 ) by noting the temperature at which a liquid mixture of known composition crystallises spontaneously in a sealed tube ; ( 2 ) by noting the tempel.ature at which a known liquid mixture attains its highest refractive index , and gives a dense labile shower when placed in the trough of the inverted goniometer .
By these methods it has been shown that each mixture possesses a definite temperature of spontaneous crystailisation .
The supersolubility curve shows a minimum for liquids having approximately the eutectic composition , and runs approximately parallel to the freezing point curve .
It crosses the melting point curve three times as shown in the 4 .
The nature of the mixed crystals which first separate spontaneously from any liquid mixture on the supersolubility curve has been investigated .
The composition of such crystals been determined by separating them from their mother liquor and finding their elting points .
5 .
A few thin sections have been ground from the solid mixtures in the neighbourhood of the eutectic , and their structures examined .
These stl.uctures do not appear to be permanent , and after the lapse of some months they had completely changed , new crystal needles having appeared all over the sections .
These changes , however , appear to be very gradual and to take place with change of temperature .
Distribution of in Space .
The analysis of these mixtures was carried out in the Balliol and inity Laboratory , Oxford , by permission of Messrs. Nagel and Hartley , to whom I am much inciebted for their kind help and advice .
I also take this opportunity of expressing my grateful thanks to Principal H. A. Miers and to Prof. Bowman for the helpful criticism and dvice they have given me throughout the course of this research .
On thoe bility of a Distribntion of the Stars in Space .
By F. W. , F.R.S. ( Received July 9 , 1910 .
) In a recent paper*Prof .
Pearson obtains the following results:\mdash ; ( i ) If when denotes the parallax of a star , and be the standard deyiabion , ' square root of the mean square devi tion of a series of values of from the mean ; theJl , for a uniform distribution of stars in space , ( ii ) If be the mean magnitude of all stars down to and those of magnitude , then , and 1 .
The first of these results is compared with the values of , obtained from a list of 72 parallaxes of stars given in Newcomb 's ' The Stars : A Study of the Universe , ' and with those of 163 stars given in 'Trans .
Yale Univ. Observatory , ' Vol. II .
For Newcomb 's stars and for the Yale stars , The inference that these stars are not evenly distributed in space may be obtained more easily .
the Yale stars there ( ' Trans. Yale Univ. Observatory , ' Vol. II , p. 200-)\mdash ; 17 stars with parallax to and 30 , , , , , , With a uniform distribution , or 136 stars , may be expected to parallaxes from to , if there are 17 with parallaxes from to ; and a larger number than 136 between limits and ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 84 , pp. 47\mdash ; 70 .

