VII .
" Contributions towards the History of the Colouring Matters derived from Aniline .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 2 , 1863 .
In a short paper recently submitted to the Royal Society , I pointed out the existence of two aromatic diamines , both represented by the formula ( C , H4 ) " C , HN = H2 N , and closely resembling each other , but differing in some of their fundamental characters to such an extent that I did not hesitate to assert their individuality , and to distinguish them as alpha-phenylene-diamine and beta-phenylene-diamine .
The existence of two closely allied bodies among the diatomic derivatives of the phenyl-series very naturally suggested the idea of searching for two similarly related monatomic bases of the same group , and accordingly I undertook during the last week a careful comparison of specimens of aniline prepared by different processes .
This comparative study is still incomplete , but I beg leave to record even now an observation which appears to merit the attention of chemists .
I have , in the first place , examined aniline obtained by distillation of isatin ( indigo ) with hydrate of potassium .
The base prepared in this manner boils at 182 ?
, and possesses the general characters attributed to aniline .
But neither by treatment with mercuric or stannic chloride nor with arsenic acid is this substance converted into aniline-red .
Aniline derived from benzol was next submitted to examination .
The benzol employed for the preparation of the base was partly obtained by the distillation of benzoic acid with lime , partly by the fractional distillation of coal-tar naphtha , and the ultimate solidification of the product , boiling between 80 ?
and 83 ? .
Both varieties of benzol were treated with fuming nitric acid , and the nitro-compound thus obtained converted into aniline by means of iron and acetic acid .
The base prepared from benzoic benzol boils at 182 ? .
Like indigo-derived aniline , it refuses to yield the red colour by treatment with the agents previously mentioned .
Aniline obtained from coal-tar benzol , as might have been expected , likewise boils at 182 ?
, and neither mercuric nor stannic chloride nor arsenic acid converts this substance into aniline-red .
When I communicated these observations to my friend Mr. E. C. Nicholson , I found that in this case , as in so many others , practice is far in advance of theory .
The facts which I have mentioned had been long known to this distinguished manufacturer , who in reply to my note transmitted to me a gallon of absolutely pure aniline boiling at 182 ?
, prepared from coal-tar benzol , and perfectly incapable of yielding aniline-red .
During the last few months I have had occasion to examine a great variety of commercial specimens of aniline , more especially samples which had been kindly supplied to me by Messrs. Simpson , Maule , and Nicholson , of London , and by Messrs. Renard Brothers and Franc , of Lyons .
All these specimens furnished , by the ordinary processes , very notable quantities of aniline-red , but they also invariably boiled at a higher temperature , exhibiting in fact boiling-points varying between 182 ?
and 220 ? .
It is thus obvious that commercial aniline contains a base different from normal aniline , the cooperation of which is indispensable for the production of aniline-red .
Is this base an isomeric variety of aniline , an aniline holding to the normal aniline a relation somewhat similar to that whicn obtains between alphaand beta-phenylene-diamine ?
It is well known * Phil. Mag. S. 4 .
vol. xiii .
p. 415 ( June 1857 ) .
that Mr. Church has separated from coal-tar naphtha a hydrocarbon isomeric with benzol , parabenzol , which boils at 97 ?
'5 .
This substance is readily converted into a nitro-compound , and ultimately into the corresponding base .
Is it the base thus formed which gives rise to the formation of aniline-red ?
Or is it not more probable that commercial aniline contains another base analogous or homologous with aniline which is involved in the generation of the red ?
These are questions equally interesting for theory and practice , and the solution of which will probably throw considerable light upon the still enigmatical genesis of rosaniline .

