I. " On the Structure and Development of the Skull of the Conmmon Fowl ( Gallus domesticus ) .
" By W. KITCHEN PARKER , F.R.S. Received November 25 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) In a former paper ( Phil. Trans. 1866 , vol. clvi .
part 1 , pp. 113-183 , plates 7-15 ) I described the structure and development of the skull in the Ostrich tribe , and the structure of the adult skull of the Tinamou-a bird which connects the Fowls with the Ostriches , but which has an essentially struthious skull .
That paper was given as the first of a proposed series , the subsequent communications to be more special ( treating of one species at a time ) and carrying the study of the development of the cranium and face to much earlier stages than was practicable in the case of the struthious birds .
Several years ago Professor HIuxley strongly advised me to concentrate my attention for some considerable time on the morphology of the skull of the Common Fowl ; that excellent advice was at length taken , and the paper now offered is the result .
A full examination of the earlier conditions of the chick 's skull has cost me much anxious labour ; but my supply of embryonic birds ( through the kindness of friends)* was very copious , and in time the structure of the early conditions of the skull became manifest to me .
The earliest modifications undergone by the embryonic head are not given in this paper : they are already well known to embryologists ; and my purpose is not to describe the general development of the embryo , but merely the skeletal parts of the head .
These parts are fairly differentiated from the other tissues on the fourth day of incubation , when the head of the chick is a quarter of an inch ( 3 lines ) in length ; this in my paper is termed the " first stage .
" The next stage is that of the chick with a head from 4 to 5 lines in length , the third 8 to 9 lines , and so on .
The ripe chick characterizes the " fifth stage ; " and then I have worked out the skull of the chicken when three weeks , two months , three months , and from six to nine months old , the skull of the aged Fowl forming the " last stage .
" During all this time ( from their first appearance to their highly consolidated condition in old age ) the skeletal parts are undergoing continual change , obliteration of almost all traces of the composite condition of the early skull being the result-except where there is a hinge , for there the parts retain perfect mobility .
Here it may be remarked that although the Fowl is only an approach to what may be called a typical Bird , yet its skull presents a much greater degree of coalescence of primary centres than might have been expected from a type which is removed so few steps from the semistruthious Tinamou , a bird which retains so many of its cranial sutures .
The multiplicity of parts in the Bird 's skull at certain stages very accurately represents what is persistent in the Fish , in the Reptile , and to some degree in certain Mammals ; but the skull at first is as simple as that of a Lamprey or a Shark , and , in the Bird above all other Vertebrates , reverts in adult age to its primordial simplicity-all , or nearly all , its metamorphic changes having vanished and left no trace behind them .
Although in this memoir I have no business with the Fish , yet all along I have worked at the Fish equally with the Bird , the lower type being taken as a guide through the intricacies of the higher ; and here the Car* Dr. Murie is especially to be thanked for his most painstaking kindness in this respect .
tilaginous and the Osseous Fishes are never fairly out of sight .
The Reptile , and especially the Lizard , has been less helpful to me , on account of its great specialization .
On the fourth day of incubation the cranial part of the notocllord is twothirds the length of the primordial skull , but it does not quite reach the pituitary body ; it lies therefore entirely in the occipito-otic region .
The fore part of the skull-base extends horizontally very little in front of the pituitary space ; this arises from the fact that the " mesocephalic flexure " has turned the " horns of the trabecule " under the head .
Thus at this stage the nasal , oral , and postoral clefts are all seen on the under surface of the head and neck of the chick .
At this time the facial arches have begun to chondrify ; but only the quadrate , the Meckelian rod , and the lower thyro-hyal are really cartilaginous ; the other parts are merely tracts of thickened blastema or indiferent tissue .
In the second stage an orbito-nasal septum has been formed ; the " horns of the trabeculem " have become the " nasal alse , " and an azygous bud of cartilage has grown downwards between them ; this is the " prenasal " .
or snout cartilage ; it is the axis of the intermaxillary region .
At the commencement of this second stage the primordial skull stands on the same morphological level as that of the ripe embryo of the Sea-turtle ; at the end of this stage it has become struthioius ; and now parosteal tracts ( the angular , surangular , dentary , &amp;c. ) appear round the mandibular rod .
In this abstract I shall not trace the changes of the skull any further , but conclude with a few remarks on the nomenclature of certain splints , and as to the nature of the great basicranial bones .
Some years ago I found that certain birds ( for instance the Emeu ) possessed an additional maxillary bone on each side ; knowing that the socalled " turbinal " of the Lizard and Snake was one of the'maxillary series , I set myself to find the homologies of these splints .
Renaming the reptilian bones " preevomers , " on account of their relation to the vomer , and supposing the feeble maxillaries of the Bird to represent them , I considered that the true maxillaries were to be found in those newly found cheekbones of the Emeu and some other birds .
After discussion with Professor Huxley I have determined to drop the term " prmvomer , " and to call the supposed turbinal of the Lizard " septomaxillary , " and the additional bone in the Bird 's face " postmaxillary .
" In many Birds , but not in the Fowl , the " septo-maxillary " is largely represented-not , however , as a distinct osseous piece , but as an outgrowth of the true maxillary .
With regard to the basicranial bones , I have now satisfied myself that the " parasphenoid " of the Osseous Fish and the Batrachian reappears in the Bird as three osseous centres-all true " parostoses , " as in the single piece of the lower types ; these three pieces are , the " rostrumn of the basisphenoid and the two " basitemporals .
" These three centres rapidly coalesce to form one piece , the exact counter part of the Ichthyic and Batrachian bone ; but just as this coalescence begins , ossification proceeds inwards from these " parostoses , " and affects the overlying cartilage , the cartilage of the basisphenoidal region having no other osseous nuclei .
This process of the extension inwards of ossification from a splint-bone to a cartilaginous rod or plate I have already called osseous grafting " * .
In my former paper the basisphenoidal " rostrum " and " basitemporals " were classed with the endoskeletal bones ; they will in the present paper be placed in the parosteal category , in accordance with their primordial condition .
By the careful following out of these and numerous other details I have corrected and added to my previous knowledge of the early morphological conditions of the Bird 's cranium , and at the same time , I trust , have contributed to an enlarged and more accurate conception of the history and meaning of the Vertebrate skull in general .

