]\gt ; small surface when subjected to the action of the very high wind which correspond with the same value of In reducing the tract of land to a similar small flat plate , the trees and houses would be reduced to a mere roughness on the plate .
It is to expected therefore that , if the skin friction on unit area of the surface be expressed in the form , ( 1 ) being the wind velocity near the surface and the ensity of air , the constant be the same as the constant which would be found in the laboratory by experimenting with a small , slightly roughened plate , if a sufficiently high value of could be obtained .
It should be noticed , however , that the velocity which should be compared with Q. is the velocity close to the solid surface and not the general velocity of the air in the case of a flat plate , or the mean velocity over a cross section in the case of flow in a pipe .
In the case of a fluid flowing through a pipe , it has been shown by that for high values of the velocity , V , of the fluid near the wall is about of the velocity in the middle , and that the mean velocity , , is about of the velocity in the middle , so that .
It was found that the skin friction for the highest values of fv which Stanton able to obtain could be expressed by the formula , which equivalent to .
The constant of equation ( 1 ) must therefore be compared with The object of this paper is to show that it is possible to use observations Auid , linear dimension of the system , V the velocity of tho esearches of the National Physical Labor$tory , ' vol. 9 The value of wi be calculated for each of groups separately .
( a ) Winds .
Substituting these values equation ( 2 ) , it will be found that JfoderoXe Winds .
, Q. Henoe Strong Winds .
: Hence Condusions .
( 1 ) The coefficient does not appear to increase or decrease with wind velocity , a three-fold increase in velocity corresponding increase in skin friction .
It appears therefore that the skin friction on the earth 's surface is proportional to the square of the wind velocity .
2 ) The actual values of the skin friction coefficient are of the o1der of magnitude , but probably somewhat smaller than thom found in the laboratory , being to as against the found for friction in a pipe .
It appears therefore that approximately the skin friction applies to small flat plates and pipes and to the friction of tin atmosphere on the ground .
The ratio of the values of for the two is of the order .
It certainly seems therefore that the " " scale effed ' skin friction over this immense range of values of is not large .

