40 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Optical Constants of [ June 4 , earlier date ( 1884 ) , Lippieh had proposed a different method of obtaining a diverse magnification , and one that I had overlooked .
4 his consists in the use of an eye-piece formed by crossing two cylindrical lenses of different powers .
The two lenses are mounted , not close together , but at such distances from the image as to render parallel the rays diverging from it in the two planes separately .
In this method the object-lens remains square to the axis of the instrument .
Lippich had the same object in view as that which guided me .
I have tried his method with success , obtaining an image as good , or nearly as good , as that afforded by the sloped lens .
I understand that Professor S. P. Thompson also has used a similar device .
The Optical Constants oj Gypsum at different Temperatures , and the Mitscherlich Experiment .
By A. E. H. Tutton , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received and read June 4 , 1908 .
) At a lecture delivered to the Prussian Academy of Sciences in the year 1826 , Professor Mitscherlich showed an optical experiment with gypsum ( selenite ) which has ever since been known as the " Mitscherlich experiment .
" He had discovered , as the most striking result of an investigation of the double refraction of a number of crystallised substances at varying temperatures , that gypsum , the crystallised hydrated sulphate of lime , CaS04.2H20 , suffers greater change , as regards the position of its optic axes , under the influence of heat than any other substance then examined .
At the ordinary temperature it is biaxial , with an optic axial angle of about 60 ' , but on raising the temperature the angle diminishes until in the neighbourhood of the temperature of boiling water the axes come together , producing in convergent polarised light the rectangular cross and circular rings of a uniaxial crystal .
Beyond that temperature the axes again separate , but in the direction at right angles to their former one .
On allowing the crystal section-plate to cool , the phenomena are repeated in the reverse order .
It was this striking experiment which was shown for the first time by Mitscherlich in the lecture in Berlin above referred to .
The experiment is one that is often now repeated , as one of the most interesting and easily demonstrated cases of " crossed-axial-plane dispersion .
" Other well-known cases are brookite , the rhombic form of titanium dioxide 1908 .
] Gypsum at different , etc. Ti02 , and the triple tartrate of potassium , sodium , and ammonium .
But these two other cases differ from that of gypsum , inasmuch as the crossing of the optic axial planes occurs at the ordinary temperature by varying the wave-length of the light employed from one end of the spectrum to the other , the axes being separated in one plane for the red end and in the perpendicular plane for the blue end , while for light of a specific intermediate wave-length the uniaxial figure is produced .
The crossing in the case of gypsum , however , is brought about by changing the temperature , change of wave-length producing but little effect at the ordinary temperature , the interference figure being one that shows but slight dispersion , the difference of optic axial angle for red and for blue being only about a couple of degrees .
The usual mode of showing the Mitscherlich experiment on the screen , with the aid of the lantern projection polariscope , is to place a somewhat large section-plate of gypsum , cut perpendicular to the acute bisectrix of the optic axial angle , in a metal frame having a projecting part which can be heated by a spirit lamp or small Bunsen flame .
A strip of sheet brass with a hole cut in the middle large enough to admit the crystal plate , and bent away from the object-stage near each end , so as to enable it to be heated without injuring the latter , serves very well .
The crystal plate may be maintained in position by bending a thin card round both sides of the middle portion of the strip , a pair of apertures slightly smaller than the crystal , cut out of the card at opposite positions , serving as a diaphragm , to allow only the light from the central portion of the crystal to pass to the screen .
But it may be performed more simply and elegantly , and without sacrificing any light , by making the plate very small , about 6 mm. square , while still of adequate thickness ( 2 mm. ) to ensure a sharp interference figure .
There is no necessity for the plate to be much larger than the focal spot of light from the converging system of lenses , but some thickness is desirable on account of the very low double refraction .
With such a small plate\#151 ; held in a little platinum-foil or thin brass carrier-frame* barely larger than the plate ( 7 by 6 by 3 mm. ) , with an aperture just larger ( 3 mm. ) than the focal spot , and provided with a little lip to enable it to be gripped by a miniature hard-wood holder to avoid conduction away of heat , which is gripped in turn by the ordinary metallic crystal holder\#151 ; the experiment may be caused to proceed beautifully regularly by the heat of the rays from the lantern alone .
Moreover , a water * Small plates of selenite thus mounted are prepared by the firm of Steeg and Reuter , and may be obtained from Messrs. Newton .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Optical Constants [ June 4 , or alum cell may , and should still , be employed between the lantern condenser and the large Nicol-prism polariscope , in order to save injury to the balsam film of the prisms .
If the convergent and redivergent lens-systems have been properly adjusted , so that their common focus is in the centre of the little crystal section , the moment the electric arc of the lantern is switched on the coloured rings surrounding the two optic axes , just visible on the screen at the right and left margins of the field , begin to move towards the centre , the axial hyperbolic dark brushes themselves soon appear and continue to march steadily towards the centre at an accelerating rate , while the surrounding rings and lemniscates exhibit an ever changing and more and more brilliant display of spectrum colours in succession , until the brushes coalesce in the centre itself to form , the uniaxial rectangular cross , the surrounding spectrum curves becoming concentric circles .
Quite as steadily the cross again opens out , as the temperature still rises , into hyperbolic brushes separating more and more in the vertical direction of the field , that is , at right angles to their former line of separation .
As soon as they are well separated in this plane , the crystal can be saved from becoming incinerated to plaster of Paris ( gypsum losing its water of crystallisation at 120 ' C. ) by interposing an opaque object such as a cardboard or metal disc between the lantern and the polariscope .
By successively introducing and removing this disc matters can be so arranged that the temperature becomes slowly lowered , and the reverse phenomena of repassing the crossing stage and rediverging in the horizontal plane observed .
Indeed , by suitable manipulation of the disc the axes may be made to move on the screen either way to or from the crossing point , and retained about the latter for any length of time .
( The experiment as thus described was demonstrated to the Society , with the aid of a fine Nicol-prism projection polariscope recently constructed for the author by Messrs. Harvey and Peak for crystallographic demonstrations .
The two Nicols are a perfect pair of Iceland-spar prisms of over 2 inches minimum aperture , made by Mr. Ahrens , and are carried in rotatable mounts provided with silvered divided circles , and closed at one end with parallel glass , a cell screwing into the other end , which may carry either a concave parallelising lens , a parallel-glass plate , or a ground-glass plate for use in table illumination .
The Nicols thus mounted are supported in each case by two columns , adjustable for height , rising from a basal slider .
The various lenses , crystal holders and stages , signal-slits , the optic-axial-angle goniometer , and other accessories , are all separately mounted on columns similarly adjustable for height , and also for rotation and transverse position , carried on similar sliders , as narrow in the axial direction of the whole optical Gypsum at different , etc. 1908 .
] arrangement as is compatible with stability , and provided with fixing screws .
The whole of the sliders are capable of sliding in a correspondingly grooved base-bed , 32 inches long , and of being arranged , re-arranged , and interchanged at the experimenter 's will , no tubes or other limitations being in the way of either compact or open order .
The arrangement of the parts used for the Mitscherlich experiment was as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) A water cell , 2 inches thick , immediately after the lantern condenser delivering a slightly converging beam ; ( 2 ) the polarising Nicol rotated 45 ' to right ; ( 3 ) a plano-convex lens of 5 inches focus and 2| inches diameter ; ( 4 ) the optic-axial-angle goniometer , consisting of the convergent system of three lenses , the crystal carried by a goniometrically mounted holder , and the redivergent system of three lenses , all carried by a single pedestal , the two equal and opposite lens systems having adjustments for closeness to crystal ; ( 5 ) a doubly convex field lens ; ( 6 ) the achromatic projection lens ; and ( 7 ) the analysing Nicol rotated 45 ' to left .
) The phenomenon of crossed-axial-plane dispersion is not one which is very frequently exhibited by crystals , but it has been the author 's good fortune to meet with no less than six cases during his investigations , namely , rubidium sulphate , caesium selenate , ammonium selenate , caesium magnesium sulphate , and the selenate of the same twro metals , and also an organic substance , the monoclinic form of ethyl triphenyl pyrrholone .
In a communication to the \#163 ; Zeitschrift fur Krystallographie , '* the phenomena exhibited were compared , and a general explanation arrived at .
In all this work , the spectroscopic monochromatic illuminator described to the Eoyal Society by the author in 1895f has proved of inestimable value , enabling the precise wave-length corresponding to the production of the uniaxial figure to be determined in every case .
The requisite conditions for crossed-axial-plane dispersion were shown to be the following:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The simultaneous occurrence of extremely small double refraction ( nearness of the a- and -indices of refraction ) , and close approximation of the intermediate index ft , either to the a- or to the y-index .
The latter condition is necessary for the possibility of crossing , and the former for wide separation of the optic axes in the two planes for the two ends of the spectrum , or for two different temperatures .
( 2 ) Change of wave-length of the light employed at the ordinary , or change of temperature , while using light of the same , or both kinds of change simultaneously operating , must so act as to bring about equality , at a * 1906 , vol. 42 , p. 554 .
t 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 185 , p. 913 .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Optical Constants [ June 4 , particular temperature for each wave-length , of two of the three axes of optical ellipsoid ( either the indicatrix or the Fresnel ellipsoid ) , namely , the intei mediate axis and that one of the other two which is already nearest to equality to it .
As the axes of the indicatrix are directly , and those of the hresnel ellipsoid inversely , proportional to the indices of refraction along the three rectangular directions corresponding to the principal axes of the ellipsoid , means that the uniaxial cross is produced , owing to tivo of the three refractive indices becoming equal at the particular temperature , and for the specific wave-length in question .
The extreme delicacy of the situation when condition ( 1 ) is fulfilled will be appreciated when it is remembered that the dispersion for different wavelengths of light is different for each of the three refractive indices , and that the effect of change of temperature is also different along the three axial directions of the ellipsoid , thus further disturbing the balance .
As a change of only a few units in the fourth decimal place of the refractive index may be adequate , when all three indices are so close together as they are in these cases to start with , to provoke complete reversal of the relative positions of two of the three indices , it is readily conceivable that these directional slight differences of dispersion may suffice to bring about the changes demanded by condition ( 2 ) .
The two classes of crystals showing crossed-axial-plane dispersion which have been referred to , namely , those particularly sensitive to change of temperature and those more sensitive to change of wave-length , pass into each other so gradually that no line of demarcation can be drawn .
The five sulphates and selenates , exhaustively studied , proved to be more or less intermediate cases sensitive to both , and , in the case of caesium selenate , a very stable substance which can be safely heated to 250 ' , the changes are so rapid that each of the three axes of the optical ellipsoid in turn becomes the first median line .
But gypsum is pre-eminently characteristic of those most affected by variation of temperature , although , owing to its low decomposition temperature , the phenomena cannot be followed beyond 120 ' ; while brookite and the triple tartrate of the alkalies are excellent examples of those extremely sensitive to change in the colour of the light .
Thus , while gypsum requires the plate perpendicular to the first median line to be warmed to over 100 ' in order to bring about the formation of the uniaxial figure , brookite and triple tartrate show it at the ordinary temperature by illuminating the polariscope with light of all the colours of the spectrum in succession .
When this is done by means of the spectroscopic monochromatic illuminator , which supplies monochromatic light of the order of purity of the two-hundredth part of the visible spectrum , and at the same time records the wave-length , 1908 .
] Gypsum at different , etc. a wave-length curve corresponding to the divisions of the circle carrying the prism , it is easy to stop when the uniaxial figure is exactly formed , and to read off the circle division , and thence , with the aid of the curve , the wavelength corresponding .
The refractive indices of gypsum appear never to have been determined for temperatures higher than the ordinary , so that it has hitherto been impossible to verify the author 's general explanation of crossed-axial-plane dispersion in this very important case .
It was suggested , however , in the memoir already quoted , that the theory would be found to be equally applicable to gypsum , and the work now described was instituted with the object of definitely settling the question .
Moreover , during the investigation of the six cases already mentioned as having been studied , it was observed that different crystals of any one of them often showed considerable differences of optic axial angle for the same temperature and wave-length , due to the delicate balance of the three indices , and to the fact that the very minute differences of refraction shown by crystals from different crops of the same substance , owing to corresponding minute differences in the circumstances of growth , are capable in these sensitive cases of provoking quite considerable changes of optic axial angle .
It will therefore be obvious , that if the usual method of determining the optical constants is followed , of cutting one prism from one crystal to afford a and / 3 , and a second prism from another crystal to afford j3 and y , and also two section-plates perpendicular respectively to the first and second median lines from two different crystals , the constants arrived at by the combination of the experimental results thus derived from four different crystals may be very inaccurate , and , at any rate , cannot be put forward with full confidence .
Clearly , the only trustworthy procedure is to cut both prisms and both plates from one and the same crystal , when we shall be sure that the results for the refractive indices and for the true angle between the optic axes are correct for that particular crystal , which should be selected on account of its crystallographic perfection , absolute transparency , and freedom from impurity .
This is precisely what has been done in the case of this investigation of gypsum .
The crystal selected was a particularly clear and transparent one from Wiesloch ( Baden ) , supplied by Mr. Butler .
It is represented in fig. 1 .
It will be remembered that gypsum ( selenite ) crystallises in the monoclinic system , and in the holohedral ( prismatic ) class of that system .
The single symmetry plane is the plane of the perfect cleavage of the mineral , which enables thin plates of selenite to be prepared with the greatest ease for the numerous polariscopical purposes for which selenite is so famous .
The same Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Optical Constants of [ June 4 , plane , however , contains the two median lines , being the plane of the optic axes , and the very excellence of the cleavage offers the greatest difficulty to the preparation of the section-plates , for they obviously have to be cut across the cleavage .
The difficulty has been successfully overcome , however , and the author desires to record his thanks to Mr. Twyman , of the firm of Hilger , for the great care taken both to avoid cleavage fracture and to render the polished surfaces truly plane and accurately orientated .
The reflections afforded by the whole of the eight surfaces are optically perfect and sharp .
The crystal was not rich in faces ; besides the clinopinacoid \amp ; ( 010 ) , parallel to the symmetry plane and , as is usual with selenite , the form most prominently developed ( the crystal being tabular thereon although thick ) , there were only present the two forms , ( 110 ) , the monoclinic primary prism , and o ( 111 ) , the primary hemi-pyramid .
The stereographic pro- jection showing the poles of these forms is given in fig. 2 , and on it are also shown the poles of three other forms .
One is the orthopinacoid ( 100 ) , which is sometimes developed but was not present on the crystal in question| and which if present replaces the edge pp = 110 :110 ; another is the other crystallographic axial-plane form c ( 001 ) , the basal pinacoid , and the third is the ortho-prism d ( 101 ) which replaces the edge 111 : ill An outline of the crystal is also shown in the figure , representing the section of the crystal by the symmetry plane , assuming the forms and c to be all present the better to indicate the symmetry .
The actual crystal would give the same section , except that the top and bottom corners would not be\amp ; cut off by the basal pinacoid , which is not present .
These crystallographic data in the drawing will help to make quite clear the positions of the crystallographic axes a and c ( b being perpendicular to the paper ) , which are marked in dotted-and-broken lines , and of the normals to the faces a , d , and Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
1908 .
] Gypsum at different Temperatures , etc. c , which are drawn in broken lines .
The positions of the optical first and second median lines are also shown in strong continuous lines ; these are the two extreme axes of the optical ellipsoid , the intermediate axis being perpendicular to the paper .
The crystal was 13'5 mm. in thickness , and 48 and 27 mm. respectively along the diagonals ( measured parallel to the tabular clinopinacoid , the symmetry plane ) .
Fig. 3 shows the scheme according to which the crystal was cut , assuming it to be lying on a clinopinacoid face .
The triangular end-part A was used for the stauroscopic determinations of the directions of extinction ( the directions of the first and second median lines , the extreme axes of the ellipsoid and the bisectrices of the acute and obtuse optic axial angles ) .
Similar determinations with sodium light had previously been carried out with the whole crystal , in order to be certain of the precise directions of the axes of the ellipsoid before commencing the cutting .
B was the plate perpendicular to the first median line .
C was the 60 ' prism affording / 3 and 7 .
The refracting edge is represented in plan by the apex , the edge itself being parallel to the symmetry axis ( perpendicular to plane of paper ) ; the bisecting plane contains that axis , which is the intermediate axis of the ellipsoid ( corresponding to the index / 3 ) , and the first median line , the latter being the minimum axis of the Fresnel ellipsoid and maximum axis of the indicatrix , corresponding to the 7-index .
D was a piece left in reserve in case of accidental fracture along a cleavage direction during cutting .
E was edge oo = ( ill ) : ( 111 ) Fig. 3 .
the section-plate perpendicular to the second median line .
Finally , F was the 60 ' prism affording a and / 3 .
Its refracting edge indicated by the apex in the drawing is also parallel to the symmetry axis b like that of C , and thus this prism also affords / 3 , which is consequently obtained in duplicate , once from each prism , and the concordance of these values will afford an excellent criterion of the accuracy of the work .
Its bisecting plane contains , besides this axis / 3 of the ellipsoid , the second median line , the 48 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Optical Constants of [ June 4 , maximum axis of the Fresnel ellipsoid or minimum axis of the indicatrix , so that this second direction of vibration of the light passing through the prism at minimum deviation corresponds to the a-index .
It will thus be clear that each of the two prisms afforded , when arranged for minimum deviation , two images of the signal slit of the refractometer ; one corresponded to light vibrating parallel to the refracting edge ( in both cases the intermediate axis of either ellipsoid and corresponding to the / 3-index ) , and extinguishing when the Nicol was at 0 ' , and the other to light vibrating parallel to one of the two median lines ( the minimum or maximum axis of the ellipsoid corresponding to a in one case and 7 in the other ) , and extinguishing when the Nicol was at 90 ' .
This is the first time that the indices , even for the ordinary temperature , have been thus all three directly determined , for the determinations of von Lang were made with a single prism yielding only ft directly , \#171 ; and 7 being obtained by an indirect method.* The degree of accuracy to which the surfaces were cut was well withir .
10 minutes of the desired directions even after polishing .
The prisms were 13 mm. high and the faces were nearly as wide as high , the polish being as perfect as that of quartz or calcite .
The results are found to be in full accordance with the author 's general explanation given in 1908 .
At the temperature of the production of the uniaxial interference figure of circular coloured rings and rectangular black cross , as observed with the plate perpendicular to .
the first median line in convergent polarised light , two of the refractive indices ( as observed with the prisms ) become equal , namely , the two , \#171 ; and which are closest together at the start .
For , on heating the prism affording these two indices , the two signal images in monochromatic light , already so close together that the corresponding spectra in white light overlap , approached each other and became identical ( superimposed ) between 90 ' and 100 ' C. whatever was the colour of the light employed ; while at 105 ' they had perceptibly passed each other and \#171 ; had become ft and versd , the differences of the indices themselves being 0'0004 .
The phenomena cannot be followed with safety beyond this temperature , owing to the probability of decomposition into plaster of Paris .
But at the temperature of the observations ( 105 ' ) no trace of decomposition had occurred , and although the experiment was repeated on another day , no fracture of the relatively large and valuable prism occurred .
The same fortunate result attended the obseivation with the pi ism affording ft and 7 which was employed for determinations at the same temperatures , in order to obtain a complete record of all three indices for each temperature .
This happy result * 'Wien .
Akad .
Ber .
, ' 76 , vol. 2 , p. 793 .
Gypsum at different , etc. 1908 .
] was secured by very slow heating and subsequent cooling , in the most recent form of spherical crystal-heating air bath provided by Fuess for use with the large model ( No. la ) spectro-refractometer which was used throughout the determinations , the monochromatic light being supplied by the author 's spectroscopic monochromatic illuminator , on the entrance slit of which the light from an electric lantern was focussed .
The thermometer employed was one which had recently had its fixed points redetermined , and its cylindrical bulb was almost touching the crystal-prism .
The optic-axial-angle measurements of the apparent angle in air , 2E ; the apparent acute angle in monobromnaphthalene , 2Ha , both made with the plate perpendicular to the first median line , and of the apparent obtuse angle in monobromnaphthalene , 2Ho , made with the plate cut normal to the second median line , were carried out with the larger Fuess axial angle apparatus also fed by monochromatic light from the illuminator .
The true angle within the crystal between the optic axes , 2Ya , was calculated by the usual formula , tan Va = sin Ha/ sin Ho. But it was also determined directly by immersing the plate perpendicular to the first median line in pure mono-chlorbenzene , whose refractive index for sodium light ( 1*5248 ) is almost absolutely identical with the mean of the three indices of the crystal ( 1*5245 ) .
The observations of 2E at higher temperatures with the first plate were performed in the heating arrangement with plate-glass windows ( optically worked ) provided with the Fuess apparatus .
The temperatures superior to the ordinary were in all cases corrected for the conduction of the crystal holder , which was of platinum-iridium in order to reduce it to a minimum , the correction being determined by replacing the crystal under like conditions by the bulb of a very small thermometer .
This is a most necessary correction , amounting to 7 ' in the neighbourhood of 100 ' .
The extinction directions were determined with the Fuess stauroscope , forming part of the Groth universal crystal apparatus , and full corrections were made for the zero of the Nicols by reversals of the crystal , and for the setting of the crystal edge to the optically-worked edge of the glass carrier plate by accurate goniometrical measurements .
The results are as follows :\#151 ; Orientation of the Optical Ellipsoid.\#151 ; Determinations of the extinction directions in the symmetry plane , made both with the whole original crystal and with the end-piece A ( fig. 3 ) , agree in indicating that for sodium light at 12 ' the first median line is inclined 37 ' 42 ' to the normal to the edge pp \#151 ; 110 : 110 , or to the normal to the face ( 100 ) , and 46 ' 40 to the axis a ; the second median line makes the same angle of 37 ' 42 ' with the vertical c-axis of the crystal , while the first median line is inclined 52 ' 18 ' VOL. LXXXI.\#151 ; A. E Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Constants [ June 4 , to the r-axis .
This will be clear from both fig. 2 and fig. 3 .
The first median line lies in the obtuse angle of the crystallographic axes a and The results for other colours of the spectrum were not perceptibly different .
Miers* gives 37 ' 30 ' as the most trustworthy value derived from previous observers for the inclination of the first median line to the normal to \#171 ; ( 100 ) , a difference from the author 's value which is almost within the error of stauroscopical measurements .
Refractive Indices.\#151 ; The following table expresses the combined results of the determinations , by the method of minimum deviation , with both prisms , for the uniform temperature of 12 ' C. , a constancy to within half a degree of this temperature having been maintained on both days .
It takes 2 ' to influence the refractive index one unit in the fourth place of decimals .
The two values of / 3 , derived from the two prisms , never differed by more than two units in the fourth place , and for four of the seven wave-lengths for which observations were made the values were absolutely identical .
This is an eloquent testimony to Hilger 's accurate cutting , and to the trustworthy character of the measurements .
The angle of the prism affording a and / 3 was 60 ' 20 ' , and of that yielding / 3 and 7 59 ' 54 ' .
Refractive Indices of Selenite at 12 ' .
a. J8 .
" 1 Li line 1 -5178 1 -5201 1 -5270 j o " 1 -5184 1 '5207 1 -5276 | Na " 1 -5207 1 -5230 1 -5299 Wave-length 573 ... 1 -5213 1 -5237 1 -5307 !
T1 line 1 -5231 1 -5255 1 5325 F " 1 -5262 1 -5285 1 5355 \amp ; \#187 ; 1 '5303 1 -5328 1 -5400 " The values obtained by von Lang for four of the above wave-lengths at 16'-8 were as under , only those for / 3 , however , being strictly comparable as .directly determined .
a. 0 .
7C line 1 -5183 1 -5204 1 -5281 D " 1 -5208 1 -5229 1 -5305 F " 1 -5263 1 -5283 1 -5360 a " 1 -5309 1 -5328 1 -5407 'The agreement with the author 's values is wonderfully close in the case of * ' Mineralogy , ' p. 526 .
1908 .
] Gypsum at different , etc. 51 J3 , taking into account the effect of the slight difference of temperature , which is to add 0*0002 to von Lang 's values in order to correct them to 12 ' .
Determinations were made for the particular wave-length 573 in the .greenish-yellow , because this was found to be the interesting and important wave-length for the maximum which the optic axial angle has been shown by von Lang to possess , but which he was unable to locate nearer than the D line , an exceptional phenomenon which it is important to study with precision .
With the aid of the monochromatic illuminator it is quite easy to observe and demonstrate the maximum , and to determine its position with an accuracy hitherto unattainable .
It was assumed by von Lang to occur for the sodium ray D , one of the six spectrum rays employed by him in his observations , because among these six values it was the highest .
The crystal under discussion showed the maximum optic axial angle at wave-length 573 slightly on the green side of D , so that von Lang 's observation is confirmed , .and the exact position allocated more closely owing to the use of the mono-\#166 ; chroinatic illuminator .
Refractive Indices of Selenite at 105 ' .
a. P. 7Li line 1 -5154 1 -5158 1 *5243 C " 1-5160 1 *5164 1 -5249 Na " 1-5184 1 *5188 1 *5274 Wave-length 573 ... 1'5190 1 -5194 1 -5280 T1 line 1 -5209 1 5213 1*5300 F " 1 -5239 1 -5243 1 *5330 \amp ; \#187 ; 1 *5285 1 -5289 1 -5377 The direction corresponding to y is the same as at the ordinary temperature , but a and / 3 are now reversed , the values given as those of a corresponding to the direction which at 12 ' afforded / 3 , that is , the direction of the symmetry axis b , and vice versed as regards j3 .
The amount of double refraction is not appreciably altered by the rise in temperature .
Thus the difference of the a- and y-indices for sodium light at 12 ' is 0*0092 , and at 105 ' it is 0*0090 , practically the same .
But the reduction in refractive power , the usual accompaniment of rise of temperature in crystals , is very unequal for the three directions .
Between 12 ' and 105 ' the refractive index along the direction which affords a at 12 ' ( the second median line ) becomes reduced by 0'0019 ; along the direction of the symmetry axis , affording / 3 at 12 ' , it is reduced by 0*0046 ; and along the direction of the first median line , which affords y at all temperatures , the reduction is D'0025 .
Thus , while the general drift of the change of refraction is to e 2 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Optical Constants of [ June 4 , become lower as the temperature rises , the symmetry axis value / 3 oversteps the second median line value a in amount of reduction , rendering the former now the minimum , a ; thus a and ( 3 interchange positions .
This crossing over of these two indices is shown to scale in fig. 4 , which gives a very clear expression of the whole of the movement of the Welsby signal images , the movement of a. and j3 being given by one prism , and that of and y by the other , the two effects being combined in the diagram .
The three upper images are arranged according to their relative positions at 12 ' , and the three lower are as they actually appear at 105 ' .
Fie .
4 .
It was very interesting to see the interchange in progress as the prism affording \#171 ; and / 3 was heated .
At 12 ' the circle-reading separation of the two images was 12 ' , at 37 ' the difference had become reduced to 10 ' , at 50 ' to 7 ' , at 63 ' to 6 ' , both images moving also steadily in the direction of reduced deviation .
At 80 ' the two images were only 3 ' separated , and at 90 ' they were superimposed , one extinguishing at 0 ' of the Nicol and the other at 90 ' , so that the appearance was as of a single image of unpolarised light , although there were really two images polarised in planes at right angles .
No difference of relative position could be clearly made out until the temperature of 100 ' was reached , but for 105 ' they were distinctly separated on the other side of each other to the extent of 2 ' .
This is precisely the same phenomenon as was observed with the other cases of crossed-axial-plane dispersion investigated by the author , so that there can be no doubt concerning the fact that a common explanation applies .
Optic Axial Angle.\#151 ; The following values for the apparent angle in air , 2E , were obtained for the temperature of lla5 , with the plate perpendicular to the first median line .
The maximum angle was clearly proved to occur when the circle-reading of the monochromatic illuminator was such as corresponded on the wavelength curve to the wave-length 573 , sodium light corresponding to 589 and thallium light to 535 .
1908 .
] Gypsum at different etc. 2E of Selenite at 110,5 .
Li 99 ' 16 ' 0 99 27 T1 100 ' 34/ F 99 58 Ua 100 36 Gr 98 24 Wave-length 573 ... 100 43 The true angle within the crystal , 2Va , will next be given for two ordinary temperatures , 8 ' and 10 ' , derived from measurements of the apparent acute angle 2Ha and apparent obtuse angle 2Ho with the plates perpendicular to the first and second median lines respectively , immersed in monobrom-naphthalene .
The temperature was maintained within half a degree of constancy at 8 ' or at 10 ' for each pair of observations used in combination for the calculation of the true angle at that temperature , by the formula already quoted .
True Optic Axial Angle 2Va of Selenite .
At 8 ' .
At 10 ' .
Li 61 ' 14 ' 60 ' 27 ' C 61 18 60 31 Na 61 45 61 1 Wave-length 573 ... 61 47 61 4 T1 61 32 60 51 F 61 12 60 34 The same wave-length 573 is again found to be that corresponding to the maximum true angle .
It is interesting that the liquid monochlorbenzene , of which a very pure sample was kindly placed at the author 's disposal by Dr. Yeley , F.R.S. , has precisely the same refractive index for sodium light as the mean index ( mean of a , / 3 , and 7 ) of selenite , the exact respective numbers being 1'5248 and 1-5245 .
Hence the value of the true angle in the neighbourhood of the sodium line , including wave-length 573 , may be very accurately determined , and for the ends of the spectrum also approximately , by immersing the plate perpendicular to the first median line in that liquid , and thus a most valuable means of directly determining the wave-length for the maximum true angle is afforded .
The following values were obtained in this manner for the temperature of 80,5:\#151 ; 2Va of Selenite directly determined at 8'-5 .
Li 60 ' 57 ' 1 C 61 3 1 Na 61 28 Maximum angle observed for wave-length 573 ... 61 30 61 19 f1 60 46 Gr 60 0 54 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Optical Constants of [ June 4 , The maximum was thus clearly proved by both methods to be at wavelength 573 .
Additional measurements were made for short intervals corresponding to a very few units of wave-length on each side of 573 , and the maximum definitely located for 573 .
In all these measurements the readings for the axes themselves indicated that the first median line moved in the symmetry plane towards the axis c 5 minutes between Li and wave-length 573 , and then moved back again towards the axis a for 20 minutes between 573 and G. Hence 573 is also a limiting wave-length for the position of the first median line in the symmetry plane .
The results of the measurements of the apparent angle in air , 2E , at two higher temperatures will now be given , and they will be followed by a record of the precise temperature for each wave-length for which the uniaxial rectangular cross and circular rings are produced .
2E at Higher Temperatures .
At 48 ' ( corr .
) At 75 ' ( corr .
) Li 74 ' 26 ' 52 ' 14 ' C 74 40 52 30 Na 75 40 54 18 Wave-length 573 ... 76 5 54 55 T1 75 23 54 22 P 74 48 52 40 The maximum still remains at wave-length 573 on heating , as will be obvious from the above table .
* Corrected Temperatures for the Production of the Uniaxial Figure by Selenite .
G- 102 ' *5 104 ' *5 105 1 105 -5 105 -2 104 .
.'7 P T1 Last wave-length for which uniaxial figure is produced , wave-length 573 Na 0 Li 104 , The cross is first formed for G-light , as the temperature rises above 100 ' , hence the usual order of the spectrum is reversed in the above table The uniaxial figure is next produced simultaneously for both F and Li-li\lt ; dit while for wave-lengths between F and G the axes are separated in the new plane , the vertical , if the section-plate were arranged for the axes to be Gypsum at different , etc. 1908 .
] separated horizontally at the ordinary temperature as usual .
For the parts of the spectrum between Li and F they still remain in the horizontal plane .
But as the temperature rises further , successive parts of the spectrum* approaching the centre from either end , produce the crossing ; thus at 105 ' ' thallium light and sodium light produce it , while the axes remain still separated appreciably in the horizontal plane for the greenish-yellow part between , and while for spectrum colours outside either T1 green or Na yellow the axes are vertically separated , and the more so the nearer the end of the spectrum .
Finally , for wave-length 573 in the greenish-yellow* the uniaxial figure is produced at a temperature of 105o-5 , and on rotating the prism circle of the spectroscopic monochromatic illuminator either way , so as to feed the convergent light polariscope with light on either side of wave-length 573 , the rectangular cross begins to open out into hyperbolic brushes again , and in both cases in the vertical plane , the axes becoming separated more and more in that plane as either end of the spectrum is approached .
Just near wave-length 573 the horizontal spider-line appears as a common tangent to the two vertices of the hyperbolic brushes , the one vertex being below and the other above the spider-line .
They come into contact with the spider-line and with each other , and produce a rectangular cross with arms at 45 ' to both horizontal and vertical spider-lines , at the critical wave-length 573 itself , and recede away as hyperbolic above and below the spider-line as the wave-length of the light is altered in either direction .
In a similar manner , at the lower temperature of 104'*5 , the vertical spider-line appears as a tangent to the hyperbolic vertices for Li or F-light ( for which the vertices and spider-line touch and the brushes join up to make the rectangular cross ) , while on altering the wave-length towards ; the centre of the spectrum , from either Li or F , the vertices recede right and left from the spider-line along the horizontal diameter .
But if the spectrum is moved away from F towards the violet ( in the case of Li , of course , we ; almost at once get out of the visible spectrum ) the vertices separate along the vertical diameter .
For temperatures superior to 105o,5 the axes are separated in the vertical plane for all wave-lengths , but the minimum separation is for wave-length 573 .
These observations with the Hilger plate perpendicular to the first median line were repeated the next day with identical results .
The temperatures actually read on the thermometers were , as already explained , 7 ' higher thau those given in the table , as the correction for conduction already referred to amounts to as much as 7 ' .
This important correction appears to have been neglected in the work of previous observers .
The fact that the critical wave-length , on either side of which at 105''5 56 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Optical Constants of [ June 4 , the axes are separated in the vertical plane , is 573 , affords another strong confirmation of the accuracy of the conclusion that this is the wave-length corresponding to the maximum optic axial angle , for the determination of the tangential limiting position was one of considerable refinement and certainty with the monochromatic illuminator , the plate perpendicular to the first median line affording very sharp brushes , being 2 mm. thick .
The two parallel surfaces were 14 mm. by 13 mm. in size .
During the heating it was confirmed that the first median line moves in the symmetry plane towards the axis a about 5| ' , as noticed by former observers .
Between 20 ' and 95 ' C. , von Lang observed 5 ' 38 ' of movement .
For the same interval the author observed 5 ' 41 ' .
After having completed the work on the crystal in question , it was considered desirable to determine the temperatures of crossing of the optic axes with other plates from distinct crystals , and three were experimented with , for two of which the author 's thanks are due to Messrs. Newton .
All three were small plates , prepared by Steeg and Reuter , mounted in the manner described on p. 41 .
The results for all three are given in the next table , the temperatures being corrected for conduction as in the case of the Hilger section-plate .
Temperatures of Crossing for Three other Plates .
Plate 1 .
Plate 2 .
Plate 3 .
a 106 ' m ' 108 ' F 108 113 110 T1 109 114 111 Wave-lengfcli 573 ... 110 114 -5 111 *5 Na 109 -5 114 *2 111*3 C 108 -5 113*2 110 *3 Li 108 113 110 The temperature will thus appear to vary for different crystals , although , including the Hilger section-plate , the variation does not exceed 9 ' .
This amount , however , is sufficient to fully justify the author in having cut the whole of the prisms and section-plates for this work out of one and the same crystal .
The wave-length for the maximum temperature was in all cases 573 .
Conclusions.\#151 ; The experimental work on selenite now described confirms the author 's previously published conclusion , derived from other examples that the phenomenon of crossed-axial-plane dispersion is due to very low double refraction , combined with close approximation of the intermediate index of refraction to one of the extreme indices , and to the fact that change 1908 .
] Gypsum at different Temperatures , etc. of wave-length of the light or change of temperature , or both , cause the intermediate index to approach still nearer to the extreme one in question until it becomes identical with it , and eventually to pass it , the relative positions of the two indices thus becoming reversed .
The uniaxial rectangular cross and circular rings are produced at the critical point of identity .
This critical point is a function of both wave-length and temperature , being a fixed one only for a particular wave-length and specific temperature .
The temperature has a maximum for wave-length 573 on the greenish-yellow side of the D lines ( 589 ) .
The optic axial angle has a maximum for the same wave-length 573 , for all temperatures below that of the crossing of the optic axes , and a minimum for temperatures superior thereto up to the temperature of decomposition ( 120 ' ) of selenite .
The change of orientation of the median lines ( bisectrices of the optic axial acute and obtuse angles ) within the symmetry plane , at any specific temperature , also exhibits a critical limit for this greenish-yellow light of wave-length 573 , which is thus a very important radiation in connection with the optics of selenite .
The range of temperature which includes the production of the uniaxial figure for all colours of the spectrum does not exceed 4 ' , varying in different crystals from 30-5 to 4 ' .
The absolute temperatures of crossing for the four crystals investigated varied 9 ' , the maxima ( for wave-length 573 ) varying from 105o,5 to 1140,5 , corrected for conduction of crystal holder .

