1878.J A. Sanders .
Anatomy of Central Nervous System .
415 III .
" Contributions to the Anatomy of the Central Nervous System in Vertebrate Animals .
Part I. Ichthyopsida .
Section 1 .
Pisces .
Subsection 1 .
Teleostei .
" By Alfred Sanders , M.R.C.S. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received May 7 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) The brain of Mugil cephalusconsists of three pairs and one nnpaired tuberosity above , and two below .
The most anterior pair are the olfactory lobes .
From the anterior to posterior end they present four layers ; first , olfactory nerve fibres with cell-like swellings upon them ; second , coarsely granular neuroglia , with incipient glomeruli olfactorii , and large tripolar nerve cells ; third , small usually unipolar cells each in its own space in the neuroglia ; the whole collected into a rounded mass ; fourth , nerve fibres proceeding from this mass to the second pair of tuberosities , the cerebral lobes , which consist of finely granular neuroglia , in which small cells are situated towards the circumference , and larger cells towards the centre , each of the latter contained in a lymph space .
The third pair of tuberosities , the optic lobes , corresponding with the corpora quadrigemina , are formed of a thin layer of nervous substance , enclosing a ventricle ; this layer , the , consists of seven strata : first , granular neuroglia ; second , oblique fibres with fusiform cells ; third , radiating fibres ; fourth , oblique fibres ; fifth , transverse fibres ; sixth , cells of a small size ; seventh , connective tissue with an epithelial to the ventricle of this lobe .
Within this ventricle , on the floor , are two tuberosities , tori semicirculares , faced with connective tissue , and containing small unipolar cells arranged along the margin .
Behind , the ventricle in question is closed by a process from the unpaired tuberosity ( cerebellum ) , which occupies the position of the valve of Vieussens ; this is the valvula cerebelli ; it forms a fold in the ventricle , and joins a longitudinal ridge situated along the contiguous inner margins of the tecta ; on the side of the valvula are processes more or less developed in different fishes .
The unpaired tuberosity is the cerebellum ; it has a structure comparable to that of the cerebellum of the newly-born human infant .
The tuberosities below are the hypoaria , which receive fibres from the ventral surface of the medulla oblongata behind ' , and from the \#166 ; cerebral lobes in front .
Between the two hypoaria is the pituitary body , and also a saccus vasculosus .
The medulla oblongata behind the cerebellum has two tuberosities , constructed in the same way as the tori semicirculares ; they are the vagal tuberosities .
416 A. Sanders .
Anatomy of Central Nervous System .
[ May 23 , Ventricles :\#151 ; The fourth ventricle consists of two parts , one part beneath the cere-bellum , the other part , a deep fissure between the vagal tuberosities ; they communicate with each other by means of a narrow quadrangular passage .
The ventricle of optic lobe is simply the remains of the ventricle of the corpora quadrigemina in foetus , and now part of the aqueduct of Sylvius .
The third ventricle , between the cerebral lobes and the optic lobe , communicates behind with the last , and below with pituitary body by means of the infundibulum ; above , it is closed in by the stalk of the pineal gland .
Origins of nerves :\#151 ; The olfactory nerve arises from the olfactory lobe .
The optic nerve arises by three roots , first from the tectum lobi opici , second from the torus semicircularis , third from the hypoarium .
The motor oculi arises from a ganglion beneath the floor of the aquseductus sylvii ; it partially decussates .
The trochlearis arises from anterior part of the base of the cerebellum .
The trifacial arises by three roots from beneath the anterior end of the crura cerebelli ; its deep origin is from three distinct points ; first , from cells beneath the floor of anterior part of the fourth ventricle ; second , from the external lateral part of the spinal cord ; third , from the central part of the vagal tuberosity .
The abducens arises from two small ganglia in the ventral horn of grey matter beneath the narrow part of the fourth ventricle .
The acusticus arises from the lateral part of the medulla oblongata in the region of the ganglion of the vagus .
The glossopharyngeal has 9 .
separate origin in mugil , in other fishes it is a branch of the acusticus , in others again it is a branch of the vagus ; here it arises from the grey matter covering the narrow part of the fourth ventricle .
The vagus arises by two roots , one from a ganglion beneath the floor of posterior end of the fourth ventricle ; the other from the cerebellum , and from the grey matter covering the narrow part of the fourth ventricle .
The first spinal nerve , although passing through a foramen in the exoccipal , takes the place of the hypoglossal , rises by dorsal and ventral roots , forms with the second spinal nerve the brachial plexus , and supplies the region of the tongue .
The spinal nerves have a ganglion on the dorsal root .
The commissura ansulata , placed at the exit of the trochleares nerves , is partly a longitudinal and partly a transverse commissure ; it first appears on the external and lateral part of the medulla , opposite the 1878 .
] Prof. J. Casey on the Equations of Circles .
posterior part of the fourth ventricle , passes forward , and at the point above-named ascends on the external edge of the medulla , and forms the commissure of the tecta lobi optici , at the base of their longitudinal ridges above described ; this commissure also forms a decussation of fibres beneath the ganglion of the trochlearis .
The anterior commissure of the brain is situated between the cerebral lobes .
The posterior commissure is situated on the anterior part of the floor of the ventricle of the optic lobe behind the third ventricle .
A deeper commissure connects the region on each side of the third ventricle passing through the hypoaria in front of the infundibulum .
Two transverse commissures exist in the spinal cord , one ventral , one dorsal .
The ventral longitudinal columns of the cord contain two fibres of gigantic size , one on each side ; these decussate opposite the origin of the trifacial on the floor of anterior part of the fourth ventricle ; the longitudinal columns pass- to the internal part of the floor of ventricle of the optic lobe , about the posterior end of the fourth ventricle .
The lateral columns of the cord pass forward , and are lost outside the last .
1Y .
" On the Equations of Circles .
" ( Second Memoir .
) By JOHN Casey , LL. D. , F.R.S. , M.R.I.A. , Professor of Mathematics in the Catholic University of Ireland .
Received May 10 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) In the year 1866 was published in the " Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy " a paper ** On the Equations of Circles , which contained extension of many known theorems .
Thus it was proved in it that the same forms of equation which are true for a circle inscribed in a plane or spherical triangle hold also when the right lines in the one case , or the great circles in the other , are replaced by any three circles in the plane or sphere , and it was shown that the transformed equations represented the pairs of circles which touch the three given circles .
The results for circles on the sphere were still further , extended , namely , to conics having double contact with a given conic .
The paper contained , in addition to these fundamental investigations , many collateral ones on allied subjects .
The memoir , of which I now give an abstract , extends the results of the foregoing paper to a polygon of any number of sides inscribed or circumscribed to a given circle .
It is proved for the case of circumscribed figures , that the sides of the polygon may be replaced both on the plane and sphere , by circles touching the given circle ; and

