II .
" On the direct Transformation of Iodide of Allyle into Iodide of Propyle .
" By MAXWELL SIMRPSON , M.B. , F.R.S. Received April 7 , 1863 .
Iodide of allyle , as is well known , combines directly with two equivalents of metallic mercury , a well-defined crystalline compound being formed .
Would it be possible to make the same body combine with two equivalents of hydrogen , and thus to open a direct passage from the allylic to the propylic series of compounds ?
Indirectly this transformation has been already effected by M. Berthelot through the intervention of propylene gas .
In order to determine the above point , I submitted iodide of allyle to the action of hydriodic acid gas .
On passing this gas into the iodide , the latter became strongly heated and black from the liberation of a large quantity of iodine .
As soon as the gas was observed to pass unabsorbed through the liquid , the latter was allowed to cool , and filtered through asbestos .
It was then decolorized by agitation with a dilute solution of caustic potash , dried over chloride of calcium , and distilled .
Almost the entire quantity passed over between 90 ?
and 95 ?
Cent. The portion distilling between 92 ?
and 94 ?
Cent. I collected apart and analysed .
The numbers obtained correspond with the composition of iodide of propyle , as will be seen from the following table : Theory .
Per cent. Experiment .
C ... .
36 21-18 21 29 ... ... .
7 4'11 4-16 I ... ... . .
127 74-71 170 100-00 The specific gravity of the iodide is 1 73 at zero .
In order to satisfy myself that the body I had in my hands was really an ether of propylic alcohol , I endeavoured to prepare that alcohol from it .
This I succeeded in doing in the following manner:-About 60 grammes of the iodide were added to an equivalent of oxalate of silver contained in a flask surrounded by water .
The mixture became strongly heated from the violence of the reaction , and the decomposition was soon complete .
It was then digested with ether .
On submitting the ethereal solution to distillation , I observed that , as soon as the ether had passed over , the thermometer rose rapidly to 186 ?
, and that the entire liquid , previously dissolved in the ether , distilled over between that temperature and 197 ?
Cent. This was no doubt oxalate of propyle .
On heating this body in a retort with solid caustic potash , I obtained a volatile distillate .
This I then dried over chloride of calcium , and in order to secure its complete dehydration , treated it with a small piece of sodium .
On re-distilling , I found that the entire liquid passed over between 83 ?
and 88 ?
Cent. The portion distilling between 85 ?
and 88 ?
gave on analysis results corresponding with the formula of propylic alcohol , as will be seen on inspecting the following table : Theory .
Per cent. Experiment .
C6 ... ... . .
36 60'00 59'21 IH ... ... . .
8 13-33 13-47 O0 ... ... . .
16 26*67 60 100'00 By treating this body with iodine and phosphorus , I succeeded in regenerating iodide of propyle .
This is a very ready method of preparing propylic alcohol when a large quantity is not required .

