December 12 , 1844 .
The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
' On the Laws of the Tides on the Coast of Ireland , as inferred from an extensive series of observations made in connexion with the Ordnance Survey of Ireland .
" By George Biddell Airy , Esq. , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
The elaborate investigations of which the results are communicated in the present paper , were suggested by the necessity of adopting some standard mean height of the sea , as a line of reference for the elevations ascertained in the operations of the Ordnance Survey of Ireland .
Colonel Colby , R.E , who conducted that survey , had with this view determined to institute a series of observations on the height of the water in different states of the tide ; and conceiving that these observations might be made subservient to imn provement in the theory of the tides , requested the assistance of the author in laying down the plan of observation best calculated to effect that object .
The suggestions which were , in consequence , made by the author were adopted in their utmost extent by Colonel Colby ; and the collection of observations was placed in the author 's hands in the winter of 1842 .
The whole number of observations exceeds two hundred thousand ; and they derive extraordinary value from the circumstance of the localities , of their simultaneity , their extensive range , and the uniformity of plan on which they were conducted .
Their reduction was made by the computers at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , under the superintendence of the author , and with the authority of the Lords Commissioners of ' the Treasury .
The nature of the different branches of the inquiry may be gathered from the titles of the several sections into which the paper is divided , and which are as follows : Section I.-Account of the stations , levellings , times and methods of observation .
Section II.-Methods of extracting from the observations the times of high and low water ; of supplying deficient times and heights ; and of correcting the times first determined .
Section IlI.-Theory of diurnal tide as related to observations only ; and deduction of the principal results for diurnal tide given immediately by these observations .
Section IV.-Theory of diurnal tide as referred to the actions of the sun and moon .
Section V.-Discussion of the height of apparent mean water , as deduced from the heights of high and low water only , corrected for diurnal tide ; with reference to difference of station , and to variations of the phase of the moon , and of the declination of the moon .
Section VI.-Discussion of the range of the tide , and of semimenstrual inequality in height , apparent proportion of solar and lunar effects as shown by heights , and age of tide as shown by heights , from high water and from low water .
Section VII.-Establishment of each port , and progress of semidiurnal tide round the island .
Section VIII.-Semimenstrual inequality in time , proportion of solar and lunar effects as shown by times , and apparent age of tide as shown by times , from high water and from low water .
Section IX.-Formation of the time of diurnal high water ; progress of the diurnal tide-wave round the island ; comparison of its progress and range with those of the semidiurnal tide .
Section X.-Method of expressing the height of the water throughout every individual tide , by sines and cosines of arcs ; and expressions in this form for every tide in the whole series of observations , except those at Courtown .
Section XI.-Discussion of the height of mean water deduced from the analysis of individual tides ; with reference to difference of station , and to variations of the phase of the moon , and of the declination of the moon .
Section XII.-Discussion of range of tide , or coefficient of first arc , in the analysis of individual tides ; and of semirenstrual inequality in range , apparent proportion of solar and lunar effects , and age of tide as deduced from range .
Section XIII.-Establishment of each port , as deduced from the time of maximum of the first periodical term in the analysis of individual tides .
Section XIV.-Semimenstrual inequality in time , proportion of solar and lunar effects from times , and apparent age of tide as shown by times , deduced from the time of maximum of the first periodical term .
Section XV.--Comparison of the results as to mean height , range , semimenstrual inequality in height , age of tide obtained from height , establishment , semimenstrual inequality in time , and age of tide obtained from time , deduced from high and low waters only , in Sections V. , VI .
, VII .
, VIII .
, with those deduced from the analysis of individual tides in Sections XI .
, XII .
, XIII .
, XIV .
Section XVI.-Remarks on the succeeding terms of the expressions for individual tides , as related to the magnitude of the tide , to the position on the sea-coast , to the position on the river , &amp;c. ; comparison with the terms given by the theory of waves ; discussion of the quarto-diurnal tides .
Section XVII.-Separate discussion of the tidal observations at Courtown .
Section XVIII.-Examination into the question of tertio-diurnal tide .

