]77 .
] Prof. J. Tyndall on Ferments and Germs .
353 The conclusion to which the evidence contained in this communication I ds is that if the gravimetric application of the copper test used in the r ustomed manner is to be accepted as affording trustworthy information wh reference to the quantitative determination of sugar , and I confi-dtly submit that it is , the results which Bernard has obtained by the ( jerimental modus operandi he has been recently employing are shown j be seriously fallacious .
The results being fallacious , his inferences ust be looked upon as correspondingly in error .
, " Note on Dr. Burdon Sanderson 's latest Views of Ferments and Germs .
" By J. Tyndall , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 21 , 1877 .
While writing the paper which the Council of the Royal Society has cently done me the honour of accepting for the Philosophical Transacts , the abstract of a lecture delivered by Dr. Burdon Sanderson to the ssociation of Medical Officers of Health was placed in my hands .
The teem in which the author 's name is justly held will certainly give eight and currency to the views enunciated in this lecture .
Speaking : ferments Dr. Sanderson says :\#151 ; " In defining the nature of ferment ition we are in a dilemma , out of which there is no escape except by raipromise .
A. ferment is not an organism , because it has no structure .
\#166 ; \lt ; is not a chemical body , because when it acts upon other bodies it main-tins its own molecular integrity .
On the whole , it resembles an organism tuch more than it resembles a chemical body , for its characteristic beha-.our is such as , if it had a structure , would prove it to be living .
Ten ears ago the opponents of spontaneous generation were called Pansper-usts , because it was supposed that in the so-called generatio equivoca , in very case in which Bacteria appeared to spring out of nothing , the result 'as referable to the influence of unseen but actually existing germs .
The ssearches of the last few years have carried us beyond this stage ... .
the uter line of defence , represented by the aphoristic expression omne ivv/ m ex ovo , has been for some time abandoned .
The ground which the rthodox biologist holds now , as against the heterodox , is not that every bacterium must have been born of another Bacterium , but that every Bac-irium must have been born of something which emanated from another bacterium , that something not being assumed to be endowed with structure in the morphological or anatomical sense , but only in the molecular t chemical sense .
It is admitted by all , even by Professor Tyndall , that , o far as structure is concerned , the germinal or life-producing matter out \gt ; \#163 ; which Bacteria originate exhibits no characters which , can be appreciated by the microscope ; and other researches have proved that the Seminal matter is capable of resisting destructive influences , particularly those of high temperature , which are absolutely fatal to the Bacteria 2b 2 354 Prof. J. Tyndall on Ferments and Germs .
[ June 2 themselves .
G-erms have given place to things which are ultramicr* scopical\#151 ; to molecular aggregates\#151 ; of which all we can say is , what v have already said about the ferments , that they occupy the border-lar between living and non-living things .
" As directed against " germs " the argument that the " germinal matter is capable of resisting destructive influences which are fatal to the themselves , will , I think , be found on consideration to lack validit Nobody is better acquainted than Dr. Sanderson with the two forms undr which the contagium of splenic fever appears .
He knows that the one fugitive and readily destroyed , the other persistent and destroyed wil difficulty .
Now the recent researches of Koch , which have been verifie by Cohn , prove conclusively that the difference here referred to is bast upon the fact that the fugitive contagium is the developed organism \lt ; Bacillus anthracis , while the persistent contagium is the spore of tin organism .
Dallinger 's excellent observations also establish a differenc between the death-temperatures of monad germs and of adult monads while I need not do more than refer to the forthcoming Part of tl Philosophical Transactions for illustrations of the extraordinary di ferences of the same nature which my recent researches have brougl to light .
Dr. Sanderson credits me with " admitting " that the germinal or lift producing matter out of which Bacteria originate exhibits no structur ; characters which can be appreciated by the microscope .
Not only do admit it , but I made it a special object of my lecture before the Britis Association at Liverpool in 1870* , to show how inappropriate it is t invoke the microscope in deciding questions of ultimate structure .
Afte experimentally demonstrating the existence of a world of particles fa beyond the reach of the microscope , I thus express myself:\#151 ; " Many of our physiological observers appear to form a very inadequat estimate of the distance which separates the microscopic from the mole cular limit , and often employ a phraseology calculated to mislead .
Whei for example , the contents of a cell are described , without qualification , a * perfectly homogeneous/ or as ' absolutely structureless/ because th microscope fails to distinguish any structure , or when two structures ar pronounced to be ' without difference ' because the microscope can detec none , then I think the microscope begins to play a mischievous part .
" A little consideration will make it plain that the microscope can hav no voice in the question of ultimate germ-structure .
What is it tha causes water to contract at 39 ' F. , and to expand until it freezes ?
It1 a structural process of which the microscope can take no note ; no1 is it likely to do so by any conceivable extension of its powers .
Whei distilled water is placed in the field of an electro-magnet , will any chang* be observed by a microscope when the magnet is excited ?
Absolute !
, ' none ; and still profound and complex changes have occurred .
First ol * 'Fragments of Science , ' 5th edition , pp. 447 , 448 .
77 .
] Prof. J. Tyndall on Ferments and Germs .
355 .
the particles have been rendered diamagnetically polar ; and secondly , virtue of the structure impressed upon it , the liquid twists a ray of .ht in a fashion perfectly determinate both as to quantity and direction , iv the diamond , the amethyst , and the countless other crystals found the laboratories of nature and of man no structure ?
Assuredly they iv , though the microscope can make nothing of it .
It cannot be too stinctly borne in mind that between the microscopic limit and the ie molecular limit there is room for infinite permutations and coin-nations .
" It is not without concern that I see the habit of thought and expres-m against which I thus reasoned revived by so excellent a worker as r. Sanderson .
My position is , and I think the uniformity of Nature is i my side , that a particle , whether great or small , which when sown \#166 ; oduces a plant , is proved thereby to be the germ of that plant ; Dr. vnderson 's position is , that a particle , however fruitful it may be , ceases .
be a germ , and dwindles to a " molecular aggregate " when it becomes tra-microscopieal .
It may be fairly asked have all microscopes , or only \gt ; me , the right to define the germ-limit ?
Has a pocket-lens the right ?
f not , and assuredly it has not , what power of enlargement confers the ght ?
Some of those particles develop into globular , some into )d-shaped Bacteria , some into long flexile filaments , some into impetuously loving organisms , and some into organisms without motion .
One particle ill emerge as a Bacillus anthracis , which produces deadly splenic fever ; nother will develop into a Bacterium the spores of which are not to be licroscopically distinguished from those of the former organism ; and yet hese undistinguishable spores are absolutely powerless to produce the dis-rder which Bacillus anthracis never fails to produce .
It is not to be ima- ; ined that particles which , on development , emerge in organisms so dif-erent from each other , possess no structural differences .
But if they )ossess structural differences they must possess the thing differentiated , iz .
structure itself .
One of the greatest advantages arising from the use of the luminous oeam in researches of this nature I considered to be the demonstrative form into which it enables us to throw the argument regarding germs and spontaneous generation .
I will here set forth this argument substantially is I stated it in Glasgow last October:\#151 ; " We are asked to pronounce on the character of a granular powder placed in the hand .
We examine it , but fail to discern what it is .
We prepare a bed of earth , sow in it the powder , and soon afterwards find a mixed crop of docks and thistles sprouting from the bed .
We repeat the experiment fifty times ; and from fifty different beds , on sowing the powder , we obtain the same crop .
What would be our conclusion ?
Wfo should not be in a condition to affirm that every grain of the powder was a dock-seed or a thistle-seed ; but we should be in a condition to affirm that both dock- and thistle-seeds formed , at all events , part of the powder .
There is not in the range of 356 On the Windings of Rivers in Alluvial Plains .
[ June 2 physical science an experiment more conclusive nor an inference moi certain than this one .
Now , supposing the powder to be light enough \gt ; float in the air , and that we are enabled to see it there as plainly as ft heavier powder in the palm of the hand .
If , like the powder , su floating dust , sown in an appropriate soil , produce a definite living crc with the same logical rigour as before we should conclude that the gen of this crop must have formed a portion of the dust .
" This reasonr applies , word for word , to the development of Bacteria from the suspended particles which the luminous beam reveals in the air , and the absence of which life is never generated in previously sterilize infusions .
I respectfully submit this reasoning to Dr. Sanderson 's friendly co eider at ion .
YI .
" Experimental Demonstration in respect to the Origin Windings of Rivers in Alluvial Plains , and to the Mode Plow of Water round Bends of Pipes .
" By Profess\lt ; James Thomson , LL. D. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received June 2 1877 .
In a paper which I had the honour of submitting to the Royal Socie rather more than a year ago , and which is printed in the ' Proceeding for May 4 , 1876,1 proposed , on hydrokinetic principles , a theoretic view of the mode of flow of water round bends of rivers and of pip* and offered under that view explanations of the origin of the windin of rivers flowing through alluvial plains .
Wishing to bring under tl test of experiment the views then put forward , and to render very clear perceptible the phenomena anticipated , I constructed , in the summer 1876 , a small artificial river , about eight inches wide and an inch or t\\gt ; deep , having a bend turning about a half-round , or 180 ' , so that tl course of the river might be likened to the capital letter JJ .
The wat flowing in this river showed very completely , and very remarkably , tl phenomena which had been anticipated , and which are to be four described in the paper referred to .
The courses of the water 's flow the various parts of the river , along the bed , and at the upper surfao f$9| and at places anywhere within the body of the current , were made f * show themselves in several ways .
One way was by means of threads i j suitable length ( about an inch or two long ) , some of which were anchorc at bottom , while others were attached at various depths in the river ' pins or slender wires standing upright like thin posts in the river .
Thef threads , by the lines of direction which they assumed , showed very we \#166 ; the directions of the flow at bottom and at various depths .
Anoth* way , and one which proved very satisfactory for showing the bottom cui rents , was by dropping into the river granules of various kinds , such s

