Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the [ Dec. 5 , all took place ; all attempts with dimethylated cumidine have hitherto failed .
The base was heated with methylic iodide for days m the water-bath and ultimately even to 150 ' without any result .
This inability of forming quartary compounds must , in one way or another , depend upon the arrangement of the material within the molecule .
At all events , it deserves to be noticed that there are dimethylated xylidines and cumi-dines which readily combine with methyl iodide .
The dimethylated bases existing in the less volatile fractions of commercial dimethylaniline all form quartary compounds without difficulty , and must therefore correspond to xylidines and cumidines which differ from those derived from trimethylated phenylammonium iodide .
In what relation stands the cumidine above described to the cumidines already known ?
Of the several purely methylic cumidines which are possible , two only are somewhat accurately known ; these are the two bases which are derived , the one from so-called pseudocumol ( obtained by treating xylylic bromide and methylic iodide with sodium ) , the other from mesitylol .
The former cumidine is a solid fusing at 62 ' , and need not therefore be further considered here .
Most probably the cumidine above described will prove identical with the primary monamine corresponding to mesitylol .
Unfortunately mesitylamine has been hitherto so little studied , that even its boiling-point is not known .
I hope next winter to examine more minutely this group of compounds .
In conclusion , I have great pleasure in expressing my best thanks to Mr. E. Mylius , Assistant in the Berlin Laboratory , for the zeal and care with which he has furthered the progress of these researches .
II .
" Transformation of Aniline into Toluidine.'* By A. W. Hofmann , M.D. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received August 22 , 1872 .
" Whilst engaged with the experiments described in the previous paper , I have made some observations which I may be allowed briefly to mention to the Society , since the coming autumnal vacation will suspend work for a time .
In reviewing the experience collected as to the action of high temperatures upon trimethylated phenylammonium iodide , the question naturally suggested itself whether the transposition of methyl groups , such as it occurs in the quartary compound , would take place also on heating tertiary or secondary ammonium salts .
Experiment has answered this question in the affirmative .
Generally speaking the phenomena are exactly what , from the results of former observations , might have been expected .
It is my intention to study next winter more soundly the reactions here sketched out ; for the present I may be permitted just to allude to the happy solution of a problem with which during the last few years I had repeatedly , but always unsuccessfully , been engaged .
1872 .
] transformation of Aniline into Toluidine .
55 Salts of methylaniline ( experiments were made with the chlorhydrate and iodhydrate ) may be heated to 220 ' or 230 ' for hours without undergoing any alteration ; but if the temperature be raised to the melting-point of lead ( 335 ' ) , the methyl group in the ammonia fragment passes over to the benzol nucleus , methylaniline being converted into toluidine .
C6 Hg .
CH3 .
HN .
HC1 = ( Ce H4 .
CH3 ) HHN .
HC1 .
It is not necessary for this purpose to prepare methylaniline in the pure state .
If a mixture of 1 molecule of pure aniline chlorhydrate and 1 molecule of methylic alcohol be heated for some hours to 230'-250 ' , a yellow transparent resinous mass of the consistency of honey is formed , which is principally methylaniline chlorhydrate .
C6H5 .
HHN .
HC1 + CH3 .
OH = C6 H5 .
CH3 .
HN .
HC1 + H2 O. After a day 's exposure to a temperature of 335 ' the contents of the digestion-tubes are perfectly altered .
In place of a transparent viscous resin , they now contain a solid beautifully crystalline mass ; the secondary salt has been converted into a primary one .
The crystalline mass , unless the temperature has been too high , dissolves in water almost without a residue ; on addition of alkali to this solution an oily base is separated , which rises as a brownish layer to the surface of the liquid .
If this oily layer be distilled in a current of steam , a colourless liquid passes , which , partly in the cooler , partly in the receiver , solidifies to a white crystalline mass of toluidine .
There are but few secondary products formed in this reaction .
Toluidine thus obtained , when recrystallized from water , has the melting-point 45 ' .
Though scarcely necessary , it was identified by a platinum determination , which gave the value corresponding to the formula " 2[(Ce H4 .
CH3 ) H2 N .
HC1 ] .
PtCl4 .
It deserves to be noticed that methylanihne iodhydrate , when heated like the chlorhydrate , yielded no solid , but liquid toluidine .
I must leave it undecided which of the two liquid toluidines was formed in this case .
The observations rapidly sketched in this note invite to new experiments in a variety of directions .
Is it possible to obtain by similar processes homologues of the monamines of other classes , perhaps e\en of some of the bases contained in the organism rof plants and animals ?
Already I have commenced the study of naphthylamine , the behav jour of which will be particularly interesting in more than one respect .
According to some observations published upon this subject , the preparation of methylated naphthylamines would appear to present some difficulty ; but by working at moderate temperatures , mono- and dimethylated naphthyl-amine , as well as the quartary ammonium base , are readily procured .
The salts of these compounds are remarkable for their power of crystallization ; I have not yet found time to examine their behaviour under the influence of heat .
56 Messrs. A. W. Hofmann A. Geyger on [ Dec. 5 , In conclusion I may observe also that the secondary products of the action of heat upon trimethylated phenylammonium iodide appear to be of interest .
A small fraction of the bases , generated at 335 ' , boils at a very high temperature ; when allowed to stand for some time this fraction deposits splendid crystals of a monamine which , according to the analysis of the well-crystallized chlorhydrate and platinum salt , contains CuH17N ; and the constitution of which , after a more minute examination , will probably prove to be expressed by the formula [ C , ( Ch , ) , ]H2n .
Finally , there is found among these secondary products a beautifully crystallized hydrocarbon , melting at 136 ' , and boiling between 230 ' and 240 ' .
Some combustions of this body , which require confirmation , lead to the simple formula c4h6 , which determination of the gas volume weight will probably raise to C12H18 = C6(CH3)6 .
May this hydrocarbon actually be looked upon as sexmethylated benzol ?
If so , its oxidation promises results which will deserve minute investigation .
III .
" Colouring-matters derived from Aromatic Azodiamines .
" By A. W. Hofmann , Pli .
D. , F.R.S. , and A. Geyger , Ph. D. Received July 10 , 1872 .
II .
Safran " Whilst we were engaged with the study of the blue colouring-matter produced by the action of aromatic monamines on azodiphenyldiamine our attention became directed to a beautiful red tar-pigment , which has been known for some time by the commercial name of Safranine , being extensively used as a substitute for safflower in dyeing silk and cotton .
Safranine has not as yet been minutely examined ; but , as far as can be judged from the scanty information we possess regarding its production , it is scarcely doubtful that this important dye must be looked upon as being the derivative of an azodiamine .
The analysis of safranine thus promised to throw considerable light upon the nature of the compounds under examination .
The starting-point of our studies was the dye such as it occurs in commerce .
The greater portion of it was supplied to us by Messrs. Tillmanns , of Crefeld .
Another specimen was received from Dr. .1 .
Wolf , and for a third one we are indebted to our friend M. Charles Girard , of Paris .
Both the first-mentioned specimens were assigned to us as

