228 Prof. J. Tyndall on the Deportment of [ May 17 III .
" Further Researches on the Deportment and Vital Resistano of Putrefactive and Infective Organisms , from a Physical poin of view .
" By John Tyndall , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor c Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
( Abstract .
) For reasons which will appear in the sequel , it will be desirable t glance , in the first place , at the results already submitted to the Roya \gt ; Society .
Portions of the autumn of 1875 , and of the winter and spring o 1875\#151 ; 76 , were devoted to the first section of these researches , and on th 13th of January , 1876 , its main results were communicated orally to th Royal Society .
The completed memoir was handed in to the .
Society \#166 ; on the 6th of April : it is published in vol. 166 of the ' Philosophies Transactions/ Many of the 'closed chambers ' employed in the inquiry were submitte* on the 13th of January to the inspection of the Fellows .
There hat been over fifty of them in all , and several of them had been used mor .than once .
The air in these chambers had been permitted to free itself from floating matter by self-subsidence , no artificial means of cleansing it beinj employed .
Sterilized organic liquids and infusions of the most variec kinds freely exposed to , air thus spontaneously purified were found , whei tested by the microscope , to remain absolutely free from organisms of al kinds , and equally free from the turbidity , scum , and mould which to th naked eye are the infallible signs of the generation and multiplication o\gt ; such organisms .
These experiments embraced , among others , the following organ !
liquids :\#151 ; urine in its natural condition ; infusions of mutton , beef , pork hay , turnip , sole , haddock , codfish , salmon , turbot , mullet , herring , eel oyster , whiting , liver , kidney , hare , rabbit , barndoor fowl , pheasant , and grouse .
The number of separate vessels containing these liquids which were exposed to spontaneously purified air amounted to several hundreds , and the consensus of their testimony , in the sense just indicated , was com-plete . .
Five minutes ' boiling was found in all cases sufficient to sterilize the infusions .
" When , after remaining sterile for months , the doors of the chambers were opened so as to admit the uncleansed air of the laboratory , the contact of such air , or , more correctly , of the matter mechanically floating in it .
infallibly produced organisms in abundance\#151 ; sometimes exclusively Bacterial , sometimes exclusively fungoid , and sometimes a combination of both .
877 .
] Putrefactive and Infective .
229 Infusions of the substances above referred to were afterwards exposed a succession to air which had been freed of its floating matter by filtration through cotton wool , also to air from which the floating matter had even removed by calcination , and finally to vacua obtained by exhausting !
g far as possible with an air-pump large receivers which had been ireviously filled with filtered air .
Boiled for five minutes and exposed to air thus treated , or to vacua bus produced , none of the infusions showed subsequently any alteration if colour or transparency to the naked eye , or to the microscope any nanifestation of life .
Thus far I have summed up the results obtained with self-purified air , interred air , calcined air , and air-pump vacua , the liquids in all cases )eing exposed in open test-tubes .
Small retort-flasks were afterwards .esorted to .
Charged with the infusions , they were boiled in heated oil or brine , and sealed with exceeding care during ebullition .
At the Boyal Society on January 13th , 1876 , one hundred and thirty such flasks were submitted to the Bellows , free alike from putrefaction and from life- .
They embraced specimens of all the substances above mentioned and some others .
Briefly expressed , then , the evidence furnished by six months ' assiduous work during the autumn , winter , and spring of 1875-76 , proved conclusively that in the atmospheric conditions then existing in the laboratory of the Boyal Institution , not one of the many hundred flasks and tubes experimented on failed to be sterilized by five minutes ' boiling , and no countenance was given to the notion that any of these once sterilized infusions possessed the power of spontaneously generating life .
The investigation embodied in the memoir now submitted to the ... Society was opened in the summer of 1876 by a series of tentative experiments on turnip infusions , to which were added varying quantities of bruised or pounded cheese .
Seven different kinds of cheese were employed , fifty-seven test-tubes being charged with the mixture and exposed to the self-purified air of closed chambers .
The majority of these mixtures remained unchanged ; a minority became charged with organisms , which are , in my opinion , completely accounted for by reference to the protective action of the cheese .
In the memoir of which this is an abstract such protective action is illustrated by the fact that when ordinary mustard seeds were tied together in a calico bag , they resisted the boiling temperature for a considerable multiple of the time which sufficed to kill them when no bag enveloped them .
The bag and outside seeds protected the interior ones .
Not temperature alone , but the ability to diffuse its juices or salts , appears to be a condition of importance in the destruction of the integrity and life of a germ by boiling water .
Without diffusion a germ may ^ withstand temperatures competent to destroy it where diffusion is free- .
\#166 ; Prof. J. Tyndall on the Deportment of [ May 17 , I need not remark on the imperviousness of cheese to water , and its consequent power to prevent diffusion .
These summer experiments on turnip-cheese infusions were , however , merely tentative , and I purpose completing them hereafter .
In the autumn I resumed experiments on infusions of hay , which hac been purposely postponed .
" With this substance no difficulty was encountered in my first inquiry .
Boiled for five minutes , and exposed to aii purified spontaneously , or freed from its floating matter by calcination oi filtration , hay infusion , though employed in multiplied experiments at various times , never showed the least competence to kindle into life After months of transparency , I have , in a great number of cases , inoculated this infusion with the smallest speeks of animal and vegetable liquids containing Bacteria , and observed , twenty-four hours afterwards its colour lightened and its mass rendered opaque by the multiplicatior of these organisms .
But in the autumn of 1876 , the substance with which I had experimented so easily and successfully a year previously appeared to have changed its nature .
The infusions extracted from it bore , in some cases , not only five minutes ' but fifteen minutes ' boiling with impunity .
0d changing the hay a different result was often obtained .
Many of the infusions extracted from samples of hay purchased in the autumn of 1876 behaved exactly like those extracted from the hay of 1875 , being completely sterilized by five minutes ' boiling .
The possible influence of age and dryness soon suggested itself , and I tested the surmise to the uttermost .
Numerous and laborious experiments were executed with hay derived from different localities ; and by this means , in the earlier days of the inquiry , it was revealed that the infusions which manifested this previously unobserved resistance to sterilization were , one and all , extracted from old hay , while the readily sterilized infusions were extracted from new hay , the germs adhering to which had not been subjected to long-continued desiccation .
As the inquiry proceeded the distinction between old and new hay became more and more blurred , while prolonged experiment with hay of various kinds failed to rescue the question from uncertainty .
I therefore turned to substances of a succulent nature\#151 ; to fungi , cucumber , melon , beetroot , and artichoke , for example , whose parasitic or epiphytic germs were unlikely to have suffered desiccation .
Boiled for periods varying from five to fifteen minutes and exposed afterwards to moteless air , in numberless experiments these infusions-broke down , charging themselves throughout with organisms , and loading themselves , almost in all cases , with a soapy corrugated scum .
I then fell back upon infusions whose deportment had been previously familiar to me , and in the sterilization of which I had never experienced any difficulty .
Fish , flesh , and vegetables were resubjected to trial .
877* ] Putrefactive and Infective Organisms. .
231 Chough the precautions taken to avoid contamination were far more stringent than those observed in my first inquiry , and though the in-serval of boiling was sometimes tripled in duration , these infusions , in ilmost every instance , broke down .
Spontaneously purified air , filtered lir and calcined air ( calcined , I may add , with far greater severity than ; vas found necessary a year previously ) failed , in almost all cases , to protect the infusions from putrefaction .
I was sometimes cheered by a success which , at the time of its occurrence , would seem to be the result of increased severity in the methods 3f experiment .
But the success was subsequently so opposed by failure that it finally stood out rather as an accident than as the normal result of the inquiry .
I had the most implicit confidence in the correctness of my earlier experiments ; indeed incorrectness would have led to consequences exactly opposite to those arrived at .
Errors of manipulation would have filled my tubes and flasks with organisms , instead of leaving them transparent and void of life .
By the unsuccessful experiments above referred to a clear issue was therefore raised:\#151 ; Either infusions of fish , flesh , and vegetables had become endowed in 1876 with an inherent generative energy which they did not possess in 1875 , or some new contagium external to the infusions , and of a far more obstinate character than that of 1875 , had been brought to bear upon them at the later date .
The scientific mind will not halt in its decision between these two alternatives .
For my own part the gradual but irresistible interaction of thought and experiment made it in the first instance probable , and at last certain , that the atmosphere in which I worked had become so virulently infective as to render utterly impotent precautions against contamination and modes of sterilization which had been found uniformly successful in a less contaminated air .
I therefore removed from the laboratory , first to the top , and afterwards to the basement of the Royal Institution , but found that even here , in a multitude of cases , failure was predominant , if not uniform .
This hard discipline of defeat was needed to render me acquainted with all the possibilities of infection involved in the construction of my chambers and the treatment of my infusions .
I finally resolved to break away from the Royal Institution , and to seek at a distance from it a less infective atmosphere .
In Kew Gardens , thanks to our President , the requisite conditions were found .
I chose for exposure in the Jodrell laboratory the special infusions which had proved most intractable in the laboratory of the Royal Institution .
The result was that liquids which in Albemarle Street resisted two hundred minutes ' boiling , becoming afterwards crowded with organisms , were utterly sterilized by five minutes ' boiling at Kew .
A second clear issue is thus placed before the Royal Society:\#151 ; Either 232 Prof. J. Tyndall on the Deportment of [ May 17 the infusions had lost in Kew Gardens an inherent generative energy which they possessed in our laboratory , or the remarkable instances of life development , after long-continued boiling , observed in the laboratory are to be referred to the contagium of its vessels or of its air .
With a view to making nearer home experiments similar to those executed at Kew , I. had a shed erected on the roof of the Royal Institution .
In this shed infusions were prepared and introduced into new chambers of burnished tin , which had never been permitted to enter our laboratory .
After their introduction the liquids were boiled for five minutes in an oil-bath .
The first experiment in this shed resulted in complete failure .
Not one of the infusions exposed to the moteless air of the shed escaped putrefaction .
Either of two causes , or both of them combined , might , from my point of view , have produced this result .
First , a flue from the laboratory was in free communication with the atmosphere not far from the shed ; secondly , and this was the real cause of the infection , my assistants in preparing the infusions had freely passed between the laboratory to the shed .
They had thus incautiously carried the contagium by a mode of transfer known to every physician .
The infected shed was disinfected ; the infusions were again prepared , and care was taken , by the use of proper clothes , to avoid the former causes of contamination .
The result was similar to that obtained at Kew , viz. organic liquids which in the laboratory withstood two hundred minutes ' boiling , were rendered permanently barren by five minutes ' boiling in the shed .
A third clear issue is thus placed before us , which I should hardly think of formulating before the Royal Society , were it not for the incredible confusion which apparently besets this subject in the public mind .
A rod thirty feet in length would stretch from the infusions in the shed to the same infusions in the laboratory .
At one end of this rod the infusions were sterilized by five minutes ' boiling , at the other end they withstood two hundred minutes ' boiling .
As before , the choice rests between two inferences:\#151 ; Either we infer that at one end of the rod animal and vegetable infusions possess a generative power which at the other end they do not possess , or we are driven to the conclusion that at the one end of the rod we have infected and at the other end disinfected air .
The second inference is that which will be accepted by the scientific mind .
To what , then , is the inferred difference at the two ends of the rod to be ascribed ?
In one obvious particular the laboratory this year differed from , that in which my first experiments were made .
On its floor were various bundles of old and desiccated hay , from which , when stirred , clouds of fine dust ascended into the atmosphere .
This dust proved to be both fruitful and , in the highest degree , resistant .
Prior ]77.1 Putrefactive and Infective Organisms .
I the introduction of the hay which produced the dust , no difficulty as gards sterilization had ever been experienced ; subsequent to its in-toduction my difficulties and defeats began .
I have twice glanced at periods of boiling amounting to two hundred inutes ; for , after long and laborious trials of shorter periods I advanced longer ones , subjecting turnip and cucumber infusions to the boiling mperature for intervals varying from five minutes to three hundred and sty minutes .
Up to a certain point these liquids maintained their power developing life , but beyond this point complete sterility was the result , i the preliminary experiments bearing upon this question the point of erilization lay between 180 and 240 minutes .
Boiled for the former eriod the infusions continued fruitful ; boiled for the latter period they amained permanently barren .
In these and numerous other experiments a method was followed which ad been substantially employed by Spallanzani and Needham , and more Bcently by Wyman and Boberts , the method having been greatly refined y the philosopher last named .
The flasks were partially filled with he infusions , the portions unoccupied by the liquids being taken up with rdinary unfiltered air .
Now as regards the death-point of contagia ve know that in air it may be much higher than in water , the selfsame emperature being fatal in the latter and sensibly harmless in the former ; lence my doubt whether , in my recent experiments , the resistance of the ; ontagium did not arise from the fact of its being surrounded , not by vater but by air .
I changed the method , and made a long series of experiments with altered air .
They were almost as unsuccessful as those made with ordinary air .
From time to time I succeeded in producing complete sterility by five minutes ' boiling ; but these successes were so checked by failures that , similar to other cases referred to , they appeared in the light of accidents .
They were , however , by no means uninstructive , for they revealed the existence of breaks in the prevalence of the contagium , which , under the circumstances , might have been foreseen .
A rapid glance at the means employed to improve the method of experiment , and at the results of their employment , may be permitted here .
Bulbs , exhausted by an air-pump and afterwards heated almost to redness , were filled when cool with filtered air .
While being charged with the infusions the bulbs were warmed , so as to produce a gentle outflow of air , and their necks were sealed while the outflow continued .
It was thus sought to avoid the contamination consequent on an indraught .
The failures resulting from this mode of experiment greatly predominated over the successes .
Employing similar bulbs , their necks in the first instance were drawn out at the ends to tubes of capillary fineness .
The bulbs were then filled Prof. J. Tyndall on the Deportment of [ May 17 with one third of an atmosphere of filtered air , and , while connected with the air-pump , were heated almost to redness .
The capillary tubes were then sealed with the lamp ; the sealed ends were afterwards broken ofl in the body of the liquid , two thirds of each bulb being thus filled with the infusion .
By great care it was found possible to reseal the capillary tubes without removing them from the liquid .
The infusions were afterwards boiled from five to fifteen minutes .
Here also the fruitfulness of the boiled infusion was the rule , and its barrenness the exception .
One source of discomfort clung persistently to my mind throughout these experiments .
I was by no means certain that the observed development of life was not due to germs entangled in the film of liquid adherent to the necks and higher interior surfaces of the bulbs .
This film might have evaporated , and its germs , surrounded by air and vapour , instead of by water , might on this account have been able to withstand an ordeal to which they would have succumbed if submerged .
A plan was therefore resorted to by which the infusions were driven by atmospheric pressure through lateral channels issuing from the centres of the bulbs .
As before , each bulb was filled with one third of an atmosphere of filtered air , and afterwards heated nearly to redness .
When fully charged , the infusion rose higher than the central orifice , and no portion of the internal surface was wetted save that against which the liquid permanently rested .
The lateral channel was then closed with a lamp without an instant 's contact being permitted to occur between any part of the infusion and the external air .
It was thus rendered absolutely certain that the contagia exposed subsequently to the action of heat were to be sought , neither in the superjacent air nor on the interior surfaces of the flasks , but in the body of the infusions themselves .
By this method I tested in the first place the substance which , at an early stage of the inquiry , had excited my suspicion\#151 ; without reference to which the discrepancy between the behaviour of infusions examined in the winter of 1875-76 and those examined in the winter of 1876-77 is inexplicable , but by reference to which the explanation of the observed discrepancy is complete ; I mean , the old hay which cumbered our laboratory floor .
Tour hours ' continuous boiling failed to sterilize bulbs charged with infusions of this hay .
In special cases , moreover , germs were found so indurated and resistant that five , six , and in one case even eight hours ' boiling failed to deprive them of life .
All the difficulties encountered in this long and laborious inquiry were traced to the germs which exhibited the extraordinary powers of resistance here described .
They introduced a plague into our \gt ; 77 .
] Putrefactive and Infective Organisms .
.Biosphere\#151 ; the other infusions , those of fresh hay included , like a litten population , becoming the victims of a contagium foreign to emselves * .
It is a question of obvious interest to the scientific surgeon whether iose powerfully resistent germs are amenable to the ordinary processes disinfection .
It is perfectly certain that they resist to an extraordinary itent the action of heat .
They have been proved competent to cause fusions , both animal and vegetable , to putrefy .
How would they behave the wards of an hospital ?
There are , moreover , establishments devoted \gt ; the preserving of meats and vegetables .
Do they ever experience lexplicable reverses ?
I think it certain that the mere shaking of a bunch f desiccated hay in the air of an establishment of this character might ander the ordinary process of boiling for a few minutes utterly nugatory , ius possibly entailing serious loss .
They have , as will subsequently ppear , one great safeguard in the complete purgation of their sealed ns of air .
Keeping these germs and the phases through which they pass to reach he developed organism clearly in view , I have been able to sterilize the aost obstinate infusions encountered in this inquiry , by heating them for small fraction of the time above referred to as insufficient to sterilize hem .
The fully developed Bacterium is demonstrably killed by a tem-\gt ; erature of 140 ' F. Fixing the mind 's eye upon the germ during its )assage from the hard and resistant to the plastic and sensitive state , it will tppear in the highest degree probable that the plastic stage will be reached )y different germs in different times .
Some are more indurated than \gt ; thers , and require a longer immersion to soften and germinate .
For all mown germs there exists a period of incubation during which they prepare themselves for emergence as the finished organisms which have been proved so sensative to heat .
If during this period , and well within it , she infusion be boiled for even the fraction of a minute , the softened germs which are then approaching their phase of final development will be destroyed .
Repeating the process of heating every ten or twelve hours , before the least sensible change has occurred in the infusions , each successive heating will destroy the germs then softened , until , after a sufficient number of heatings , the last living germ will disappear .
Guided by the principle here laid down , and applying the heat discon-tinuously , infusions have been sterilized by an aggregate period of heating , which , fifty times multiplied , would fail to sterilize them if applied continuously .
Four minutes in the one case can accomplish what four hours fail to accomplish in the other .
* A hard and wiry hay from Guildford , which I have no reason to consider old , was found extremely difficult to sterilize .
Prof. J. Tyndall on Deportment of [ May 17 If properly followed out , the method of sterilization here described is infallible .
A temperature , moreover , far below the boiling-point suffices for sterilization * .
Another mode of sterilization , equally certain and remarkable , was forced upon me , so to speak , in the following way .
In a multitude of cases a thick and folded layer of fatty scum , made up ol matted Bacteria , gathered upon the surfaces of the infusions , the liquid underneath becoming sometimes cloudy throughout , but frequently maintaining a transparency equal to that of distilled water .
The living scum-layer , as Pasteur has shown in other cases , appeared to possess the power of completely intercepting the atmospheric oxygen , appropriating the gas and depriving the germs in the liquid underneath of an element necessary to their development .
Placing the infusions in flasks , with large air-spaces above the liquids , corking the flasks , and exposing them for a few days to a temperature of 80 ' or 90 ' P. , at the end of this time the oxygen of the superjacent air seems completely consumed .
A lighted taper plunged into the flask is immediately extinguished .
Above the scum , moreover , the interior surfaces of the bulbs used in my experiments were commonly moistened by the water of condensation .
Into it the Bacteria sometimes rose , forming a kind of gauzy film to a height of an inch or more above the liquid .
In fact , wherever air was to be found , the Bacteria followed it .
It seemed a necessity of their existence .
Hence the question , What will occur when the infusions are deprived of air ?
I was by no means entitled to rest satisfied with an inference as an answer to this question ; for Pasteur , in his masterly researches , has abundantly demonstrated that the process of alcoholic fermentation depends on the continuance of life without air\#151 ; other organisms than Torula being also alleged to be competent to live without oxygen .
Experiment alone could determine the effect of exhaustion upon the particular organisms here under review .
Air-pump vacua were first employed , and with a considerable measure of success .
Life was demonstrably enfeebled in such vacua .
Sprengel pumps were afterwards used to remove more effectually both the air dissolved in the infusions and that diffused in the spaces above them .
The periods of exhaustion varied from one to eight hours , and the results of the experiments may be thus summed up:\#151 ; Could the air * On reading my paper , previous to its presentation to the Royal Society , Mr. Huxley suggested a continuous exposure to a temperature not much above the death-temperature of the adult Bacterium .
I had also noted the experiment for execution myself .
It was made some weeks ago with perfect success .
The most obstinate infusions , maintained for a few days at a temperature of 160 ' F. , are sterilized.\#151 ; [ June 21 .
] 177 .
] Putrefactive and Infective .
( .completely removed from the infusions , there is every reason to believe fctt sterilization without boiling would in most , if not in all , cases be the rult .
But , passing from probabilities to certainties , it is a proved fact tit in numerous cases unboiled infusions deprived of air by five or six lurs ' action of the Sprengel pump are reduced to permanent barrenness .
a great number of cases , moreover , where the unboiled infusion would live become cloudy , exposure to the boiling temperature for a single mute sufficed completely to destroy the life already on the point of ing extinguished through defect of air .
With a single exception , I am it sure that any infusion escaped sterilization by five minutes ' boiling ter it had been deprived of air by the Sprengel pump .
These five minutes complished what five hours sometimes failed to accomplish in the pre-nce of air .
The exception here referred to is old-bay infusion , which , though erilized in less than half the time needed to kill its germs where air is 'esent , maintained a power of developing a feeble but distinct life after iving been boiled for a large multiple of the time found sufficient to snder infusions of mutton , beef , pork , cucumber , turnip , beetroot , shad-ock , and artichoke permanently barren .
These experiments gave me the clue to many others which might ave readily become subjects of permanent misinterpretation .
In the lidst of a most virulently infective atmosphere , where , even after some ours ' boiling , there was no escape for infusions supplied with air , the xpulsion of the air by less than five minutes ' boiling in properly shaped etort-flasks , and the proper sealing of the flasks during ebullition , nsured the sterility of the infusions .
The meaning of a former remark regarding the part played by boiling n establishments devoted to the preserving of meats and vegetables will \#187 ; e now understood .
The inertness of the germs in liquids deprived of air is not due to a nere suspension of their powers .
The germs are Tcilled by being deprived \gt ; f oxygen .
Bor when the air which has been removed by the Sprengel )ump is , after some time , carefully restored to the infusion , unaccompanied by germs from without , there is no revival of life .
By removing ^he air we stifle the life which the returning air is incompetent to restore .
These experiments on the mortality arising from a defect of oxygen are in a certain sense complementary to the beautiful results of M. Paul Bert .
Applying his method to my infusions , I find them sterilized in oxygen possessing a pressure of ten atmospheres or more .
Like higher organisms , our Bacterial germs are poisoned by the excess and asphyxied by the defect of oxygen .
A mechanical action may also come into play .
A few short sections on Bacteria germs as distinguished from Bacteria Mr. F. D. Brown the Physical [ May 3 ] themselves* , and on the alleged destruction of germs by merely dryin them , on hermetic sealing , and on the deportment of hermetically seal flasks exposed to the sun of the Alps , are introduced towards the end o the memoir .
Throughout these laborious researches I have been aided , with hi accustomed zeal and ability , by my excellent senior assistant , Mr. Johi Cottrell .
He has been worthily seconded by Mr. Frank Valter , and , h an humbler but still effectual way , by William Card .
May 31 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers Were read:\#151 ; I. " The Physical Properties of Homologues and Isomers/ ' By Frederick D. Brown , B.Sc. Communicated by Henry E. Armstrong , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Sec. C.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the London Institution .
Received April 23 , 1877 .
Observations of the physical properties of chemical compounds have been very numerous ; in many , however , the object aimed at has been merely the definition of the substances in question , and the results lay claim to no great accuracy .
In others , data have been required for the solution of purely physical problems , and but little attention has been paid to the chemical nature of the substances employed .
In comparatively few has equal importance been attached to both the physical and chemical aspects of the question .
If , then , we attempt to compare the physical properties of a series of compounds presenting very similar chemical properties , we find that in the case of one or two members of the series our knowledge is tolerably * By the excellent researches of Dallinger and Drysdale it has been proved that the germs of Monads , as compared with the adult organisms , possess a power of resistance to heat in the proportion of 11 to 6 .

