An Account of some Books .
I. MECHANIC A , sive de MOTU Tractatus Geometricus .
Auth. Joh. Wallis SS .
Th. D. &amp; Geom. Profess. Saviliano , &amp;c. Londini ; Impensis Mosis Pit , in Vico vocato Little Britain , 1670 .
in Quarto .
THis Excellent Mathematician , having composed a Learned Treatise concerning the Doctrine of Motion , and what thereon depends , managing it in a manner altogether Geometrical , was pleased , upon the importunity of his Friends , to permit the First Part thereof to come abroad , whilest the others are still in the Printers hands ; which is about One third part of what he did , near two years since , impart to the R. Society , and was by them desired to make it public .
In this First Part he delivers , 1 .
The General Rules of Motion , promising thereto , as becomes a strict Reasoner and good Geometrician , the Definitions belonging to that Subject ; and then comprising the Rules themselves in Thirty Propositions : In which he takes occasion , among many other weighty particulars , to intimate , That it is principally the business of a Mechanician , to excogitate and make practicable such Engins , to be interposed between the Strength and the Weight , as may so moderate the Celerity of Motion , as to compensate the Greatness of the Weight , by the Slowness of the Motion , or the want of strength , by the length of time .
2 .
Of the Descent of Heavy Bodies , and the Declivity of Motion , Thirty four Propositions .
In which he doth not think fit to explicate the Physical Cause of Gravity , whether it proceed from an innate quality in the Heavy Body it self ; or an Universal Tendency of Circum-ambient Bodies to the Center , or a Magnetical Power in the Earth , or the like ; but contents himself ( his purpose requiring no more ) to understand by the word Gravity , that sensible force of moving downwards , or to a certain Point , both the Heavy Body it self , and the less powerful Impediments : Showing in this Part also , in what proportion the different Declivities of Oblique or Sloping Plains , in which a Heavy Body is supposed to be moved , doth operate to the Helping or Hindering of such Motion .
All which he delivers as generally applicable to Motions , produced by any other force , as well as that of Gravity ; and directed any other way as well as downward .
3 .
The Doctrine of the Libra , or Balance ( containing the Fundamental Principles of all Staticks ; ) in Twenty five Propositions ; among which , he explains the Geometrical Considerations requisite in making both exact Common Scales , and the Roman Statera .
On this of the Libra , depends ( that which is the subject of the next Part , almost finished at the Press ) the whole Doctrine of the Center of Gravity , and the Calculation thereof : Which ( Center of Gravity ) he does not only demonstrate to be ( which others have hitherto Postulated , but not any , that I know of , demonstrated ; ) but doth from General Principles show , How by Calculation to assign the same in infinite sorts of Lines , Surfaces , Solids , as well such as are bounded , or take their rise from Crooked Lines , as those that are bounded only with Straight Lines and Plains .
And from the General Principles , here laid down , he doth , in his Third Part ( which is to follow ) derive the Doctrine of the Vectis or Leaver ; the Trochlea or Pulley ; the Cochlea or Screw ; the Axis in Peritrochio , or several sorts of Wheel-work ; and other such Mechanical Engins derived from these .
As likewise the Doctrine of Percussion ( on which depends that of the Cuneus or Wedge ; with many other Speculations of a like kind : ) And that of Resilition or Rebounding ; which ( as appears by a short Specimen formerly Printed in Numb. 43 .
of these Tracts ) he derives from a Repercussion , either of some other Body in Motion , which it meets with , or from the Elastick Force or Spring in one or both of the Meeting Bodies , which , being compressed by the Collision , doth endeavour to restore it self by casting off these Bodies , one or both ways .
Consonant to his Principles here laid down in the Tenth , eleventh , and twelfth Propositions of his First Chapter ; where the Impedimentum or Obstacle is made sufficient to retard or stop a Motion ; but a vis contraria or contrary Force , necessary to give an opposite New Motion .
In this first Book , he illustrates all with Eighty Figures , contained in two compendiously contrived Plates : And doth , from their proper Principles , demonstrate many of these things , which Writers commonly Postulate , or take for granted ; but which ( to make a sure Foundation ) ought to have been demonstrated .
II .
NATHAN .
HIGHMORI de HYSTERICA &amp; HYPOCHONDRIACA PASSIONE , Responsio Epistolaris ad Doct. Willis Med. Londinensem .
Londini , 1670 .
in 4~ .
THe occasion of Writing this Epistle , was , That the Learned Dr. Willis in his Pathologia Cerebri undertakes to confuce the Causes of the Hysteric and Hypochondriac Passions , as they are assigned by our Author in his Exercitations , concerning these two Symp ons , published An. 1660 .
Who thereupon thought himself obliged to write this Defence , in behalf of what he had formerly delivered upon this Subject .
The Controversy , as to the former of these Passions , consists in this , Whether the cause of it is to be referred more immediately to the Genus Nervosum , and it be primarily a Convulsive Symptom , depending on the Brain , and the Nerves thereof ; or whether it ought to be imputed to the Blood , rushing too im~ into and stuffing up the Lungs ?
Hence Dr. Willis asserts the former , and objects against the latter , of which , the Vindication is undertaken in this Epistle ; wherein it is considered among divers other things .
1 .
That the Hysteric Passion is not always accompanied with Convulsions ; where also the existence of the Succus nutritius ( on which Dr. Willis his Doctrine seems to depend ) is called in question , and several Arguments alleged to the contrary .
2 .
That , if the Succus nutritius in the Nerves , be by a violent explosion dilated , and that by the means of Fixed Salts mixed in the Nerves with Acid ones ( according to Dr. Willis ; ) the same may happen upon the Concurrence and Conflict of the like Salts in the Blood .
Concerning the Hypochondriac Passion , the Question between these two Physicians , is , Whether the first and chief cause of that distemper , be the Weakness and Laxeness of the tone of the Stomach and its Fibres , whereby a vicious Chyle and Blood is generated , that causes such a Fermentation , upon which do ensue Trembling and Palpitations of the Heart , Swoundings , Fear , Sadness ?
&amp;c. This is affirmed , and here further asserted by our Author , but denied by Dr. Willis ; concerning which , the Reader will find the best satisfaction in perusing the Writings themselves of both parties .
In the mean time he may please to take notice here , that Dr. Highmore in this Epistle , intersperses some not inconsiderable Remarks concerning the Use of the Spleen , which part he endeavours to free from those imputations it is commonly charged with , being of opinion , That the Blood is originally depraved not by the Spleen , but its matter by the Stomach III .
NOUUELLES EXPERIENCES sir la UIPERE , par M. CHARAS .
A Paris , 1669 .
in 8 ~ .
THe Author of this Curious Book , having first taken notice therein of divers Observeables , he met with in the Dissection of Vipers , and among them , of the salival Glands , he discovered in them as well as in other Animals , and those accompanied with Lymphatick Vessels , passing into a greater Vessel running along and under the said Glands , and discharging itself into the Vesicle of the Gingiva , and carrying with it the Salival liquor , which he makes to be the same with that yellow water in the bag , hitherto esteemed venomous , bnt by him reputed a mere harmeless saliva ; having , I say , presented his Reader with these and many other Anatomical Observations upon this creature , he makes it his business , 1 .
To prove , that the biting of Vipers , at least of such as are in France , are indeed venomous , and proved actually mortal : Where he alleges many Experiments , made by himself in the presence of many Physicians and others , evincing this Assertion ; in the recitation of which , he observes not a few remarkable Phenomenon , seen in the Animals , bitten by Vipers , both without , and also within them when dead and opened ; particularly , that he found all their Vitals and Viscera fresh and in a good state , but the Blood in all of them , that were opened , either coagulated already and blackish , or tending towards coagulation .
2 .
To confute the opinion of those ( and by name of the famous Italian Philosopher Redi , who , a few years since , pnblisht also a Book of Vipers ) that assert , that the Venom of these Animals resides in the Jellow liquor contained in the Bag about the Vipers teeth ; whereas this Author will have it to be in their vexed and enraged spirits : which he thinks , he hath sufficiently proved by wounding several Animals with some of the biggest teeth of Vipers , pulled out , and letting into wounds thus made , and rubbing with that reputed poisonous liquor of the bag ; whereupon no ill effects at all have followed .
Which he confirms by another trial , wherein , holding the Jaws of a Viper , and then thrusting its teeth into the flesh of a living Animal , and letting the Juice of the bag into the wound , no ill consequence appeared , considering that the angred Spirits of the Viper , in that forced and restrained posture , were kept from passing abroad ; for the emission of which he supposes the freedom of the Animal is required .
3 .
To recommend , among divers other Antidotes for the bitings of Vipers , the Volatile Salt made of them ; the virtues of which he exceedingly praises , alleging the Example of a person , who being bitten by a Viper , could be saved by no other means , but by several doses of this Volatil Salt ; whose preparation he at large describes .
This Book is likely to be forthwith translated into English , to be printed for the Stationer , that takes care of these Transactions .
IV .
ATHANASII KIRCHERI ARS MAGNA SCIENDI sive COMBINATORIA .
Amstelodami .
1669 .
in fol. THis Voluminous Work is divided into Eleven Books ; in which the Author having taken some pains to show the Defects and Difficulties in the famous Lullian Art , pretends by a new and Universal Method , that is , by an Artificial Combination of the Subjects of knowledge , to enable men to discourse and dispute , innumerable ways , of every thing proposed , and to acquire a summary and general knowledge of all things .
So that his Combinatory Art , as he cals it , consists chiefly in this , that any subjects being given or proposed , it shows , how often and how many ways they may be combined together , or exchanged , or transposed among themselves .
Of this Art he first shows the Theory , and the Rules , in the first 5 Books ; and then in the other 6 .
he applies these Rules to Practice by Examples , relating to the several Arts and Sciences .
Of what Use this Doctrine may be for the attainment of knowledge with more ease or advantage , the sagacious Reader may Judge .
V.LE SYSTEME GENERAL DELA PHILOSOPHIE , par Francois Bail D. M.A Thoulouze , 1669 .
in folio .
THis small Tract , consisting only of 4 .
Sheets , may serve to initiate those , that desire to be acquainted with the sum and import of the Cartesian Philosophy .
It delivers , in 11 .
Chapters , these 11 .
Heads : The Metaphysicks of that famous Philosopher ; his Logic ; Principles of Natural Philosophy in general ; his Doctrine concerning the Productions made in the Bowels of the Earth ; concerning Meteors ; Sensible Qualities ; Plants ; Animals ; Man ; Humane Passions ; and Ethicks .
VI .
THEODORI KERCKRINGII D. M. SPICILEGIUM ANATOMICUM , continens Observationum Anatomicarum rariorum Centuriam unam , nec non OSTEOGENIAM FAETUUM .
Amstelodami , A 1670 .
in 4~ .
THis seems to be a very Curions Collection ; to which the Author premiseth in the Preface his opinion concerning the Renes succenturiatos , viz. That they seem to be Cases , wherein is elaborated a Bilious Juice ; which afterward by the Emulgent vein , or often immediately , passes to the Cava and thence conveyed to the Heart , raises there that Effervescence , which Sylvins contends to be in that part excited by the mixture of a saltish liquor with an Acid:for although Experiment do contradict the Conveyance of the Juice out of the Liver , through the Cava , yet ( saith he)may that effervescence in the heart(on which the whole Systeme of Sylvius is grounded ) still hold , if this opinion about the use of these Kidneys be true , especially since there needs but little Leven to ferment a great Mass ; there being required but a very little Salt of Tartar to be mixed with a good quantity of Spirit of Vitriol , to cause a vehement and durable Fermentation , though a considerable plenty of the latter , mingled with a small quantity of the former , produces but a languid and short Effervescence .
As to the Collection it self , it consists of divers uncommon , and very considerable Remarks , delivered by the Authors own Observation ; E. G. A Dutch Stuyver swallowed down , and by closing the Pylorus of the Stomach , killing the Patient in ten days ; on the contrary , a small Brass-coyn being swallowed , was after a Moneths time voided by Purges , and the Patient saved , the Coin being so worn in the Stomach , that the same hardly appeared : Item , Of a Tumor on the Back , resembling a Sack filled with Corn , formed there by the force of Imagination : Examples of Superfaetation , and Ambiguous Births ; of Animals bred in the Ear , and Worms come out of the Nose ; of two Niples in one Breast ; of divers very odd Monsters ; of Infants born with Teeth ; of a periodical spitting of Blood ; of Stones growing upon the Wind-pipe , in the Brain , and the Heart , and killing the Patients ; of a double Vena Cava , of a treble Ductus Thoracicus ; cus ; of four Spermatick Arteries found without Spermatick Veins ; of a portion of a Secundine , voided uncorrupted and innoxiously , four Moneths after the production of the Child ; of a Woman , frighted by the prediction , made by a Beggar , of the day of her death , and dying on that very day ; of a very stooping and crooked Man , not above forty years of age , made straight again by purging away tough humors , besiedging the Muscles ; of a Boy , and of several Sheep destitute of Brains ; of many Observables in one and the same Body ; of various complicated and odd Diseases in one Patient ; of a Woman gone about seven Moneths , who being exceedingly frighted at the hearing of her Daughters falling down Stairs upon her Head , and breaking the hind part of the Skull , was a few days after delivered of a dead child , wanting the whole Bone of the same part ; of the Catamenia flowing thorough the Crown of the Head ; others , thorough the right hand ; others , from the very time of a Childes Nativity ; of a Child enclosed in a Mola ; of a means of restoring the Sight , deprived of its Crystalline , and the other Humors .
The other part of this Book treats of the gradual and successive Growth of the Bones in a Faetus ; for the better observation of which , the Author affirms to have by him Sceletons from the second Month after the Conception , to the very Ninth Month , assuring the Reader , that he delivers nothing , but what he knows by his own clear inspection ; which he performs in such a manner , that he only relates the more rare particulars , wherein the Faetuss do differ from adult Bodies , or he in the Doctrine of the Bones of Faetuss from other Authors , or which being un-observed of others , he hath observed more accurately ; now and then also confirming , what others , by reason of the oddness of the thing , yet doubted of .
In short , he deduces the increase of the Bones through their several intervals of Times , and gives an account .
How they are constituted in the first two Moneths , in which there hardly appears any thing of Bones distinguishable ; then what of them , about the Third , fourth , and the rest of the Moneths , is ordinarily changed , added , or taken away , at least in the Faetuss of these Climats .
The sum is , That there is a Transmigration of Membranous parts into Cartilagineous , and from them into Bony ones ; performed by Nature with such silent steps , that the most quick-sighted , and the most patient Eye shall never see it doing , though it may evidently

