1890 .
] On the Tension of recently formed Liquid Surfaces .
281 most probable that the metal exists in the ash as silver chloride .
No other heavy metal than iron and silver could be detected .
The most scrupulous care was taken in proving that the silver did not come from any of the vessels or reagents employed .
By carefully made assays , both in the dry and liquid way , it was found that the silver was present to the extent of about 1 part in 107,200 of the ash , or between a fourth and a third of a Troy ounce to the ton of 2240 pounds .
This is rather a smaller proportion than was found in the Cotopaxi ash , which contained about 1 part for 83,600 , or two-fifths of an ounce per ton .
In both eruptions the fall of considerable quantities of ashes at points on the sea coast so distant from the respective volcanoes as Guayaquil and Bahia de Caraguez indicates that in the aggregate very large absolute amounts of silver must have been ejected and dispersed .
These two appear to be the only cases in which silver has been detected among the materials thrown out by volcanoes .
Although the fact is well known that the chain of the Andes has for centuries yielded this metal in great abundance , it is worthy of notice that , to the depths as yet reached by mining work , Ecuador is less rich in valuable minerals , and especially the precious metals , than any other of the South American States .
II .
" On the Tension of Recently Formed Liquid Surfaces.5 ' By Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received February 13 , 1890 .
It has long been a mystery why a few liquids , such as solutions of soap and saponine , should stand so far in advance of others in l'egard to their capability of extension into large and tolerably durable laminae .
The subject was specially considered by Plateau in his valuable researches , but .
with results wThich cannot be regarded as wholly satisfactory .
In his view the question is one of the ratio between capillary tension and superficial viscosity .
Some of the facts adduced certainly favour a connexion between the phenomena attributed to the latter property and capability of extension ; but the " superficial viscosity " is not clearly defined , and itself stands in need of explanation .
It appears to me that there is much to be said in favour of the suggestion of Marangoni* to the effect that both capability of extension and so-called superficial viscosity are due to the presence upon the body of the liquid of a coating or pellicle composed of matter whose inherent capillary foi'ce is less than that of the mass .
By * ' Nuovo Cimento , ' vol. 5-6,1871-72 , p. 239 .
Lord Rayleigh .
Tension of [ Mar. 6 , means of variations in this coating , Marangoni explains the indisputable fact that in vertical soap films the effective tension is different at various levels .
Were the tension rigorously constant , as it is sometimes inadvertently stated to be , gravity would inevitably assert itself , and the central parts would fall 16 feet in the first second of time .
By a self-acting adjustment the coating will everywhere assume such thickness as to afford the necessary tension , and thus any part of the film , considered without distinction of its various layers , is in equilibrium .
There is nothing , however , to prevent the interior layers of a moderately thick film from draining down .
But this motion , taking place as it were between two fixed walls , is comparatively slow , being much impeded by ordinary fluid viscosity .
In the case of soap , the formation of the pellicle is attributed by Marangoni to the action of atmospheric carbonic acid , liberating the fatty acid from its combination with alkali .
On the other hand , Sondhauss* found that the properties of the liquid , and the films themselves , are better conserved when the atmosphere is excluded by hydrogen ; and I have myself observed a rapid deterioration of very dilute solutions of oleate of soda when exposed to the air .
In this case a remedy may be found in the addition of caustic potash .
It is to be observed , moreover , that , as has long been known , the capillary forces are themselves quite capable of overcoming weak chemical affinities , and will operate in the direction required .
A strong argument in favour of Marangoni 's theory is afforded by his observation , f that within very wide limits the superficial tension of soap solutions , as determined by capillary tubes , is almost independent of the strength .
My purpose in this note is to put forward some new facts tending strongly to the same conclusion .
It occurred to me that , if the low tension of soap solutions as compared with pure water was due to a coating , the formation of this coating would be a matter of time , and that a test might be found in the examination of the properties of the liquid surface immediately after its formation .
The experimental problem here suggested may seem difficult or impossible ; but it was , in fact , solved some years ago in the course of researches upon the Capillary Phenomena of Jets .
J A jet of liquid issuing under moderate pressure from an elongated , e.g. , elliptical , aperture perforated in a thin plate , assumes a chain-like appearance , the complete period , corresponding to two links of the chain , being the distance travelled over by a given part of the liquid in the time occupied by a complete transverse vibration of the column about its cylindrical configuration of equilibrium .
Since the * ' Poggendorff , Annalen , ' Erganzungsband 8 , 1878 , p. 266 .
t ' Poggendorff , Annalen , ' vol. 143 , 1871 , p. 342 .
The original pamphlet dates from 1865 .
$ ' Koy .
Soc. Proc. , ' May 15 , 1879 .
1890 .
] recently formed Liquid pliase of vibration depends upon the time elapsed , it is always the same at the same point in space , and thus the motion is steady in the hydrodynamical sense , and the boundary of the jet is a fixed surface .
Measurements of X under a given head , or velocity , determine the time of vibration , and from this , when the density of the liquid and the diameter of the column are known , follows in its turn the value of the capillary tension ( T ) to which the vibrations are due .
Catena , T oc X"3 ; and this relation , which is very easily proved , is all that is needed for our present purpose .
If we wish to see whether a moderate addition of soap alters the capillary tension of water , we have only to compare the wave-lengths X in the two cases , using the same aperture and head .
By this method the liquid surface may be tested before it is x\#163 ; o second old .
Since it was necessary to be able to work with moderate quantities of liquid , the elliptical aperture had to be rather fine , about 2 mm. by 1 mm. The reservoir was an ordinary flask , 8 cm .
in diameter , to which was sealed below as a prolongation a ( 1 cm .
) tube bent at right angles ( figs. 1 , 2 ) .
The aperture was perforated in thin sheet brass , attached to the tube by cement .
It was about 15 cm .
below the mark , near the middle of the flask , which defined the position of the free surface at the time of observation .
The arrangement for bringing the apparatus to a fixed position , designed upon the principles laid down by Sir W. Thomson , was simple and effective .
The body of the flask rested .on three protuberances from the ring of a retort stand , while the neck was held by an india-rubber band into a \/ -groove attached to an upper ring .
This provided five contacts .
The necessary sixth contact was effected by rotating the apparatus about its vertical axis until the delivery tube bore against a stop situated near its free end .
The flask could thus be removed for cleaning without interfering with the comparability of various experiments .
The measurements , which usually embraced two complete periods , could be taken pretty accurately by a pair of compasses with the assistance of a magnifying glass .
But the double period was somewhat small ( 16 mm. ) , and the little latitude admissible in respect to the time of observation was rather embarrassing .
It was thus a great improvement to take magnified photographs of the jet , upon which measurements could afterwards be made at leisure .
In some preliminary experiments the image upon the ground glass of the camera was utilised without actual photography .
Even thus a decided advantage was realised in comparison with the direct measurements .
Sufficient illumination was afforded by a candle flame situated a few inches behind the jet .
This was diffused by the interposition of a piece of ground glass .
The lens was a rapid portrait lens of large Lord Rayleigh .
Tension of [ Mar. 6 , Figs. 1 and 2 .
aperture , and the ten seconds needed to produce a suitable impression upon the gelatine plate was not so long as to entail any important change in the condition of the jet .
Otherwise , it would have been easy to reduce the exposure by the introduction of a condenser .
In 1890 .
] recently formal Liquid Surfaces .
all cases the sharpness of the resulting photographs is evidence that the sixth contact was properly made , and thus that the scale of magnification was strictly preserved .
Fig. 3 is a reproduction on the Fig- .
3 .
original scale of a photograph of a water jet taken upon 9th November .
The distance recorded as 2A , is between the points marked A and B , and was of course measured upon the original negative .
On each occasion when various liquids were under investigation , the photography of the water jet was repeated , and the results agreed well .
After these explanations it will suffice to summarise the actual measurements upon oleate of soda in tabular form .
The standard solution contained 1 part of oleate in 40 parts of water , and was diluted as occasion required.* All lengths are given in millimetres .
'1 Water .
Oleate 1/ 40 .
Oleate * 1/ 80 .
Oleate 1/ 400 .
Oleate 1/ 4000 .
2A 40 -0 45 '5 44 *0 39 0 39 -0 h 31 -9 11 *0 no 11 0 23 0 In the second row h is the rise of the liquid in a capillary tube , carefully cleaned before each trial with strong sulphuric acid and copious washing .
In the last case , relating to oleate solution the motion was sluggish and the capjllary height but ill-defined .
It will be seen that even when the capillary height is not much more than one-third of that of water , the wave-lengths differ but little , indicating that , at any rate , the greater part of the lowering of * Although I can find no note of the fact , I think I am right in saying that large bubbles could be blown with the weakest of the solutions experimented upon .
286 Tension of recently formed Liquid Surfaces .
[ Mar. 6 , tension due to oleate requires time for its development .
According to the law given above , the ratio of tensions of the newly-formed surfaces for water and oleate ( .ff)would be merely as 6 : 5.* Whether the slight differences still apparent in the case of the stronger solutions are due to the formation of a sensible coating in less than ^ second , cannot be absolutely decided ; but the probability appears to lie in the negative .
No distinct differences could be detected between the first and second wave-lengths ; but this observation is , perhaps , not accurate enough to settle the question .
It is possible that a coating may be formed on the surface of the glass and metal , and that this is afterwards carried forward . .
As a check upon the method , I thought it desirable to apply it to the comparison of pure water and dilute alcohol , choosing for the latter a mixture of 10 parts by volume of strong ( not methylated ) alcohol with 90 parts water .
The results were as follows :\#151 ; 2A , ( water ) = 38'5 , 2a , ( alcohol ) = 46'5 , h ( water ) = 30*0 , h ( alcohol ) = 22'0 ; but it may be observed that they are not quite comparable with the preceding for various reasons , such as displacements of apparatus and changes of temperature .
It is scarcely worth while to attempt an elaborate reduction of these numbers , taking into account the differences of specific gravity in the two cases ; for , as was shown in the former paper , the observed values of are complicated by the departure of the vibrations from isochronism , when , as in the present experiments , the deviation from the circular section is moderately great .
We have\#151 ; ( 46-5/ 38-5)3 = 1-46 , 30/ 22 = 1-36 j and these numbers prove , at any rate , that the method of wavelengths is fully competent to show a change in tension , provided that the change really occurs at the first moment of the formation of the free surface .
In view of the great extensibility of saponine films it seemed important to make experiments upon this material also .
The liquid employed was an infusion of horse chestnuts of specific gravity 1'02 , and , doubtless , contained other ingredients as well as saponine .
It was capable of giving large bubbles , even when considerably diluted ( 6 times ) with water .
Photographs taken on November 23rd gave the following results:\#151 ; * Curiously enough , I find it already recorded in my note-book of 1879 , that A is not influenced by the addition to water of soap sufficient to render impossible the rebound of colliding jets .
1890 .
] Development of Ciliary or Motor Oculi Ganglion .
287 2\ ( water ) = 39-2 , 2X ( saponine ) = 39'5 , h ( water ) = 30-.5 , h ( saponine ) = 20 " .
Thus although the capillary heights differ considerably , the tensions at the first moment are almost equal .
In tins case then , as in that of soap , there is strong evidence that the lowered tension is flip result of the formation of a pellicle . . . .
, , Though not immediately connected with the principal subject of this communication , it may be well here to record that I find saponine to have no effect inimical to the rebound after mutual collision of jets rontaining it .
The same may be said of gelatine , whose solutions froth strongly .
On the other hand , a very little soap or oleate usually renders such rebound impossible , but this effect appears to depend upon undissolved greasy matter .
At least the drops from a nearly vertical fountain of clear solution of soap were found not to scatter * The rebound of jets is , however , a far more delicate test than that of drops .
A fountain of strong saponine differs in appearance from one of water ; but this effect is due rather to the superficial viscosity , which retards , or altogether prevents , the resolution 111Th^failure of rebound when jets or drops containing milk or undissolved soap come into collision has not been fully explained ; but it is probably connected with the disturbance which must aiise w len a particle of grease from the interior reaches the surface of one of the liquid masses .
p S___I Pave lately found that the high tension of recently formed surfaces of soapy water was deduced by A. Dupre , f as long ago as 1869 from some experiments upon the vertical rise of fine jets .
Although this method is less direct than that of the present paper , M. Dupre must be considered , I think , to have made out his case .
It is remarkable that so interesting an observation should not have attracted more attention .
III .
" On the Development of the Ciliary or Motor Oculi Ganglion .
" By J. C. Ewart , M.D. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received February Id , 1890 .
The most conflicting views have for some time been held as to the origin , relations , and homology of the ciliary ( motor oculi , ophthalmic , * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' June 15 , 1882 .
f ' Theory Mecanique de la Chaleur , ' Paris , 1869 .

