VI .
" ' Oni the Electrical Discharge in vacuo with any Extended Series of the Voltaic Battery .
" By JOHN P. GASSIOT , Esq. , V.P.LS .
Received May 24 , 1859 .
In a recent communication , since ordered for publication in the Philosophical Transactions , I described some experiments on the electrical discharge in a vacuum obtained by the absorption of carbonic acid with caustic potassa , and I showed that , when the discharge from an induction coil was passed through such a vacuum , the stratifications became altered in character and appearance as the potassa was more or less heated .
I have also in a former paper ( Phil. Trans. 1858 , p. 1 ) shown that the stratified discharge can be obtained from the electrical machine .
A description of an extended series of a water-battery was communicated by me as far back as December 1843 ( Phil. Trans. 1844 , p. 39 ) .
This battery consists of 3520 insulated cells : some years had elapsed since it was last charged , and I found the zines were very much oxidated ; on again charging it with rain-water , I ascertained that there was sufficient tension to give a constant succession of minute sparks between two copper discs attached to the terminals of the battery , and placed about 'th of an inch apart .
On attaching the terminals of the battery to the wires in a carbonic acid vacuum-tube inserted about 2 inches apart , I obtained a stratified discharge similar to that from an induction coil .
The experiment was repeated with 400 series of Grove 's nitric acid battery .
In this case distinct sparks between two copper discs were obtained , and the luminous layers were shown in a peculiar and striking manner , thus proving that the induction coil is not necessary for the production of the strimu , as in most of the experiments the only interruptioni of the battery circuit was through the vacuumtube .
I had another tube prepared , substituting for metallic points balls of gas-carbon .
At first the stratified discharge was obtainied as before , while little or no chemical action took place in the battery ; on heating the potassa , the character of the stratifications gradually changed , and suddenly a remarkably brilliant white discharge , al1so stratzfied , was observed ; intense chemical actior was at the same time perceptibly taking place in the battery , and on breaking the circuit , the usual vivid electrical flame-discharge was developed at the point of disruption .
The continuation of these experiments will necessarily occupy much time , involving , as they do , the charging of so extended a series of the nitric acid battery , and with the requisite care necessary for the proper insulation of each cell ; other phenomena were observed which require further verification , but I hope that after the recess the result which I hope to obtain may be of sufficient interest to -form the subject of a future communication .

