The active Agent in producing Photographs the Dark .
409 the other elements have also been excessive as compared with their average amounts . .
, .
, , Thus , the mean distance of the meteors occupying segment A of the stream has been undergoing so much extension , that the meteors will at the end of the revolution find themselves with a periodic time longer by one-third of a year\#151 ; an amount of change which must largely affect their future history , unless this great perturbation is compensated by what happens elsewhere or at other times .
At the epoch 1899 , November 15 , the longitude of the node will lie 53 ' 4T-7 , a position which the earth will reach on 1899 , November 15d .
18h .
It is probable , therefore , that the middle of the shower of the present year ( 1899 ) will occur nearly at this time , since segment A in the stream , for which our calculations have been made , is situated^ in the stream less than three months ' journey of the meteors behind the segment which the earth will encounter next November , and which we may call segment B. This conclusion , however , rests on two assumptions : ( 1 ) That segments A and B were , in 1866 , moving in orbits that did not much differ ; ( 2 ) That the perturbations which segments A and B have since suffered have not much differed .
Both assumptions are probable , but unfortunately neither is certain ; so that the prediction can only be offered with reservation .
If the shower occurs at the time anticipated , it will be visible from both Europe and America .
" On Hydrogen Peroxide as the active Agent in producing Pictures on a Photographic Plate in the Dark .
" By W. J. Russell , Ph. D. , V.P.R.S. Received February 18 , \#151 ; Read March 2 , 1899 .
Xn previous papers it has been shown that certain bodies are able , in the dark , to act on a photographic plate and produce a picture .
The purpose of the present communication is to show that in all the cases which have been examined , and probably in all others of a similar kind , the action which occurs is due to the presence of hydrogen peroxide .
As a sensitive plate always contains moisture , and probably would be inactive if quite dry , it does not seem possible to test the truth of this statement by [ the total exclusion of moisture ; therefore more indirect means have to be adopted .
In the following papei no attempt is made to explain the reactions which occur in the plate itself ; that is a distinct question , and at present the object is to consider the means by which these changes , whatever they may be , are brought about .
These changes are rendered visible by exactly the same processes as those adopted for the development of an ordinary light picture .
Any of the ordinary photographic plates may lie used in 410 Dr. W. J. Russell .
On Hydrogen Peroxide as the these experiments , but as many of the pictures are only formed after a long exposure , it is well to use rapid plates .
In the following experiments the plate used has been in almost all cases the " Ilford special rapid , " and the process of development has in every case been that recommended for their ordinary use .
I he iii st step towards demonstrating that hydrogen peroxide is the active agent in producing these pictures , is to show that all the results produced both by metals and by organic bodies on a photographic plate , can be produced by hydrogen peroxide .
This body is now made in considerable quantities and sold in aqueous solution of a given stiength .
This commercial article appears to act equally well to a caiefully prepared and pure specimen of the same strength .
A convenient way of testing the action of any liquid on a photographic plate is to use a small circular glass dish , such as is made for bacteriological experiments , the photographic plate resting on the top of the dish , and the amount of the liquid used determines the distance the plate is from the active surface , the experiment being carried on in complete darkness .
If pure water be tested in this way , it is found that no picture , that is no darkening of the plate , occurs on its being treated with the developing solution .
The plate can be left over the water for eighteen to twenty hours , but if left longer than this , the film is destroyed by the aqueous vapour .
If to the pure water in the dish a mere trace of hydrogen peroxide be added , a darkening of the plate will quickly occur .
For instance , if the liquid contains only one part of the peroxide in a million of water , and the plate be exposed to its action for eighteen hours , a faint picture is produced .
Bearing in mind the small amount of evaporation which takes place under these conditions , and consequently the minute amount of the peroxide which comes in contact with the plate , it clearly shows the exceeding delicacy of the reaction .
Again , if a piece of Ford blotting paper , which by itself is inactive , after being wetted with a solution of one part of peroxide in 500,000 of water , and hung up in a warm room for three quarters of an hour to dry , is placed in contact with a photographic plate for two hours at a temperature of 55 C. , on subjecting the plate to development a distinct picture is produced .
In fact , moistening good blotting-paper with a solution which may be strong or weak , and allowing it to dry for a long or short time , is a very good way of applying the peroxide .
In place of blotting paper any inactive porous substance may be used .
Plaster of Paris wetted with a peroxide solution and allowed to set , continues for a long time to be an active body .
If by any of these means a large , in place of a small , amount of the peroxide be allowed to act on a plate , then in place of a dark , a light picture is obtained , a phenomenon similar to what is known to photographers as reversal .
The conditions Under which certain metals and certain organic bodies active Agent in producing Photographs the Park .
411 act on photographic plates , and how pictures of the structure of paper , skeleton leaves , lace , and other bodies can be obtained , has already been described , so that now it is only necessary to say that substitute for these active bodies peroxide of hydrogen , and exactly corresponding results are produced .
Writing with ordinary ink , or with a solution of ferrous sulphate , or potassium ferrocyanide , has been shown to be opaque to the action of zinc and of turpentine , so is it to the action of the peroxide of hydrogen .
Further , the action exerted by the metals and the terpenes , is unable to pass through glass , mica , selenite , \amp ; c. , but is able to pass through thin sheets of gelatin , celluloid , guttapercha , india-rubber , tracing paper , gold beaters ' skin , parchment , \amp ; c. Peroxide of hydrogen acts exactly in the same way ; every body which is known to be either opaque or transparent to the action of the metals or terpenes , is opaque or transparent to the action of the peroxide ; so that as far as the production of similar phenomena goes , the agreement is complete .
Of the acknowledged tests for the presence of hydrogen peroxide , the one with the titanic acid dissolved in sulphuric acid is exceedingly delicate ; so also appears to be the tetramethylpara-phenylenediamine paper of Dr. Wurster , and both of them have been made use of .
The next point which naturally suggests itself is , whether peroxide of hydrogen is , or is likely to be , present in all the different cases , when action on the sensitive plate occurs .
First , with regard to the metals .
The list of the active metals , which has already been given , is as follows , arranged approximately in order of their activity : Magnesium , cadmium , zinc , nickel , aluminium , lead , cobalt , bismuth , tin .
Now these are certainly the metals which might be expected to decompose water , and in the presence of oxygen cause the formation of hydrogen peroxide ; and still mere the order in which they stand in the above list , judging from their general properties , is that in which they would probably induce the formation of the peroxide .
It is also satisfactory to note that this list of metals and their order of activity was drawn up simply from experiment , when there was no idea that hydrogen peroxide had anything to do with the reaction .
Again , as a confirmation that hydrogen peroxide is formed when these metals oxidise in moist air , pieces of Dr. Wurster 's tetra-paper were moistened and laid on bright surfaces of the metal .
With the metals that head the foregoing list a considerable amount of blue colour was rapidly developed , with the metals at the end of the list the amount of colour was less , and the reaction slower ; and with other metals , such as silver and platinum , there was no action .
With copper and with iron a very slight amount of action did occur , but these metals do not appear able to produce definite pictures .
Iodide of potassium and starch paper , when used in the same way , gave a blue colour with all the active metals , but none with copper nor with iron .
412 Dr. W. J. Russell .
On Hydrogen Peroxide as the On the supposition that hydrogen peroxide is the active agent in the action exerted by the metals , it seemed probable that on supplying to the metal more moisture than it obtained from the air and photographic plate , more action would take place , and this was found to be the case .
Two pieces of polished zinc were placed in contact with photographic plates in small iron boxes ; one box was quite dry , and put in a bell-jar over calcium chloride , and into the other box some damp paper was introduced , and the box was placed with a little water under a bell-jar .
On examining the plates after three days it was found that the damp plate had much the darker picture on it .
With the object of obtaining an increased amount of action , experiments were made by passing a current of warm moist air over zinc turnings .
A glass tube , 6 feet long and 1 inch in diameter , was packed with zinc turnings , and placed within a large brass tube to which steam could be admitted .
The amount of action , if any , was indicated on a plate , placed in a dark box at the end of the tube .
Even under the most favourable conditions no very large amount of action took place .
When a current of moist warm air was passed through the tube for an hour a fairly dark picture was obtained .
If the air was dry no picture appeared .
If amalgamated zinc was used in place of pure zinc a darker picture was formed , and , as a check on these results , dry and moist air , both warm and at ordinary temperatures , was passed through the tube , no zinc being present , and then no action took place .
Also when ozonised air was passed through the tube there was no action .
Passing now from the metals to the organic bodies capable of acting on a photographic plate , it has been found that they belong essentially , if not solely , to that class of bodies known as terpenes , and it is a general property of all this class of bodies when oxidising to give rise to hydrogen peroxide .
Thanks to Dr. Tilden , experiments have been made with most of the terpenes , and all were found to be very active bodies ; both pinene and limonene were tried , in their dextro- and lsevo-rotatory state , but their activity appeared to be the same .
Oxidised and other compounds connected with the terpenes , such as terpineol camphor , thymol cymene , have no power of acting on a photographic plate , but ordinary turpentine and terebene are very active bodies .
Most of the ordinary essential oils , such as bergamot , peppermint , pine , lemons , cajuput , \amp ; c. , have been experimented with , and , without exception , have been found to be active bodies .
It is well known that they all contain terpenes .
They are also characterised by a strong odour , and as ordinary scents contain some of these bodies , it follows that almost all vegetable bodies having a strong smell are capable of acting on a photographic plate .
Eau de Cologne gives a good picture , so do many wines and brandy , and coffee , guaiacum , cinnamon are also active substances ; thus the photographic plate becomes a very delicate active Agent in producing Photographs in the Dark .
413 test for tlic presence of all these bodies , and as the action is cumulative it may even compete with the sense of smell .
In addition to the essential oils , the ordinary vegetable oils , such as linseed oil , which is the most active , and colza and olive , which ate much less active and have much less power of absorbing oxygen from the air , can act on a photographic plate .
The tetra-paper readily goes blue if suspended in a bell-jar which has a few drops of linseed oil in a dish within it .
The mineral oils are , on the contrary , devoid of this power of acting on the sensitive plate , and the same applies to bodies such as benzene , phenol , naphthalene , aldehyde , methyl alcohol , coal naphtha , \amp ; c. It would seem , then , that all the organic bodies capable of acting on the photographic plate are capable of giving rise to the formation of hydrogen peroxide when they oxidise in moist air .
In former papers it has been shown that the active bodies , both metallic and organic , are able to act on a photographic plate even when thin layers of many different substances are interposed ; for instance , if a thin sheet of gelatin be laid on a polished zinc plate it only very slightly modifies either the sharpness of the picture or the time required for its production .
If the gelatin plate be thicker the action will still pass through , but the picture will be more indistinct , and the time necessary for its production longer .
If a 2 per cent , solution of hydrogen peroxide be poured into one of the small glass dishes , and a sheet of gelatin 0-0013 inch thick be placed over it | inch above the liquid , a picture will be obtained in fifteen minutes .
If the sheet of gelatin be 0-008 inch thick , then the exposure must be for one hour ; and if the gelatin be 0-01 inch thick , an exposure of three hours is necessary .
If a sheet of celluloid be substituted for the gelatin , and it be 0-005 inch thick , the action still passes through , but more slowly than through the gelatin , and the plate now requires one hour exposure to give a good picture .
With a plate of celluloid of double the above thickness , the exposure must be four times as long ; and if the thickness be 0-033 inch , the time of exposure has to be thirty hours .
These determinations show well what happens in these cases , but are only good approximations , not standard results .
In addition to gelatin and celluloid , guttapercha tissue , india-rubber , tracing paper , collodion , albumin , gold beater 's skin , parchment , \amp ; e. also allow the action to take place through them , and the obvious question which presents itself is , If hydrogen peroxide be the body which gives rise to the action , how does it pass through these different bodies % Take the definite case of zinc ; if a plate of this metal be rubbed with coarse sand paper and placed in contact with a photographic plate , a clear and sharp picture of the scratches is obtained , and it might have been expected that when the action took place through even a very thin sheet of gelatin the picture of the scratches 414 Dr. W. J. Russell .
On Hydrogen Peroxide , as the , would have no longer been visible , or at least only indistinctly so , but experiment shows this is not the case .
How then does the peroxide permeate the gelatin 1 Not by the ordinary process of diffusion , for hydrogen cannot .diffuse through it , so that it must be by a process of dissolving , or very feebly combining with the medium , or with a constituent of it , and thus travelling through escape on the other side .
That the action is of this nature seems rendered probable by the following experiments , which show , at least to some extent , what takes place .
A 2 per cent , solution of hydrogen peroxide was placed in a dish with a sheet of the thinnest gelatin , about one hundredth of an inch thick j above it and on the gelatin a photographic plate was placed , and allowed to remain there for twenty minutes .
No picture was formed .
Immediately on removing this first plate from the gelatin , a second one was put in its place , and allowed to remain there also for twenty minutes .
This plate gave a faint picture , the third one gave a darker picture , and the fourth one was still darker ; but the fifth , sixth , and seventh plates were , as far as could be judged by the eye , of the same degree of darkness .
Thus the amount of peroxide given off on the upper surface of the gelatin went on increasing for one hour and twenty minutes , and then the action became uniform .
The same kind of action occurs if zinc be used in place of peroxide solution .
If a thin sheet of gelatin be laid on a piece of zinc and allowed to remain there for a week , then , on placing above it a sensitive plate , a picture will be produced in about one-third to one-fourth the time which would have been necessary if the previous exposure to the zinc had not taken place .
Celluloid was found to act exactly in the same way as the gelatin .
The plate , after the first half-hour 's exposure , gave no pictures , but a faint one after the second half-hour ; and it was not till after the fourth half-hour that the action became constant .
A thicker specimen , 0*011 inch thick , was also examined after intervals of two hours , it acted in the same way as the other specimens , but required ten and a half hours before the action became uniform .
If drying oil or copal varnish be used in place of the peroxide of hydrogen solution , analogous results are obtained .
This action explains how pictures can be obtained from invisible originals .
If , for instance , a piece of white cardboard or paper is placed behind a copper stencil and is exposed to the vapour from peroxide of hydrogen solution , drying oil or copal varnish , \amp ; c. , the exposed part of the paper becomes active , although not visibly affected , and on placing it on a sensitive plate , a picture of these parts is produced .
Zinc acts in the same way , but only slowly .
A zinc ornament , laid on a piece of Bristol board for eight months , charged the board only so far as to enable it to give a faint picture .
Gelatin can be substituted for the paper in these experiments , and can be charged and made to convey a clear picture to a sensitive plate .
active Agent in producing Photographs in the Dark 415 It is then evident that the action arising from zinc and other active bodies can , by an intermediate and inactive substance , be carried away and allowed to expend itself at another time and at another place .
With regard to the transmission of the action through gelatin , the water which it contains is probably the body which enables the peroxide to pass through .
It can also be shown that it aids the transmission of the action through other inactive bodies , for instance if Bristol board in its ordinary condition be placed on a polished piece of zinc , the action of the zinc only slowly passes through it , but if the board be damp the transmission takes place much more rapidly .
The following comparative experiments illustrate this .
Two similar pieces of Bristol board were taken , one was dried and then placed between a piece of perforated zinc and a sensitive plate and put under a bell jar with calcium chloride ; the other piece of Bristol board was suspended over water until it was thoroughly damp , and then placed between perforated zinc and a sensitive plate under a bell jar with a little water present .
Both experiments were continued for twelve days , when it was found that with the dry board there was no picture produced , but with the damp one there was a good and dark one .
If copal varnish be used in place of zinc , similar results are obtained , and if parchment be substituted for Bristol board the results are the same .
These experiments are however not conclusive , for it has been shown that with additional amount of water some of it finds its way to the zinc , and there induces the formation of more peroxide which may account for the darker pictures .
Even with the terpenes the additional amount of water may induce the additional formation of peroxide .
This objection can however be obviated by cutting off the moisture in the damp medium from the active substance , or by using the aqueous solution of the peroxide as the origin of the action .
In order to stop the aqueous vapour from either passing from the damp Bristol board or to it from the peroxide solution , a piece of tracing paper is interposed which allows the action to pass through it , but not any appreciable amount of aqueous vapour .
On placing a sheet of tracing paper over a glass dish containing the peroxide solution and above it dry Bristol boarcPvvith a photographic plate , in one and a half hours just an indication of a picture was produced , but when under the same conditions Bristol board which had been over water for nineteen hours was used , then a dark picture was formed .
Again similar experiments were made using a not highly glazed paper in place of the Bristol board , and the results were the same .
In place of tracing paper , celluloid was used and the dry Bristol board gave , under similar conditions , no picture , but the damp one gave a very distinct picture .
In order to avoid having so much water present , plaster of Paris set by a little of the peroxide solution was used in place of the aqueous solution , and exactly similar results were obtained , 416 Dr. W. J. Russell .
On Hydrogen Peroxide as the so there is no doubt that hydrogen peroxide can readily pass through a porous body by the aid of water .
Alcohol acts in the same way as water , for when plaster of Paris wetted with peroxide solution was poured into a couple of similar dishes and allowed to set , and over one a piece of dry and over the other a piece of Bristol board moistened with alcohol were placed , and sensitive plates above them , after fifty minutes only a very faint picture was formed above the dry board , but a dark one over the wetted board .
Celluloid is however nearly as transparent to these actions as gelatin , and water in this case cannot be the transmitting medium , so that the question is whether there be any constituent of the celluloid which may act in a similar way to that of water in the gelatin .
From the following experiments it seems that camphor can do so :\#151 ; Camphor itself like water is a perfectly non-active body .
To obtain a thin non-porous layer of this body is difficult , but it is easy to prove that the emanations from hydrogen peroxide solutions , from zinc , copal , or other active bodies , are readily absorbed by it , and readily pass through it .
For instance , if a piece of camphor be placed about quarter of an inch above a 2 per cent , solution of hydrogen peroxide for seventeen hours and be then removed and placed on a sensitive plate for fifteen minutes , it gives a dark picture , and when a similar experiment is made using drying oil in place of the peroxide solution , and the camphor be exposed to its action for three days and then brought in contact with the sensitive plate for one day , a dark picture is produced .
This action can however be easily carried still further and proved to pass through even a thick layer of camphor .
A piece OT 37 inch thick was placed about inch above a 2 per cent , solution of peroxide in a dish , for sixty-six hours , and a sensitive plate placed on the top of it on treating this photographic plate with the developing solution it was found that a considerable amount of action had occurred .
Thus the camphor which is a principal constituent of celluloid may enable hydrogen peroxide to pass through it .
That guttapercha and pure india-rubber should allow the action to pass through them is remarkable .
The substance known as guttapercha tissue has a thickness of about 0-003 inch , and allows the action to pass readily through it j in fact , if even two thicknesses of this tissue be placed over the 2 per cent , solution of the peroxide for seventeen hours , a dark picture is obtained .
If the tissue be laid on a polished piece of perforated zinc and a sensitive plate above it , after remaining there for a fortnight a fairly good picture is obtained .
If drying oil be used , the action will pass through the guttapercha in three days .
" With regard to this transmission of the action , although the chemical constitution of guttapercha is not well established , it is said to be a active Agent in producing Photographs in the Dark .
417 body related to camphor , * and hence the action passes through it as it does through celluloid , and this is borne out by the fact that if a piece of guttapercha be placed for eighteen hours over the 2 per cent , peroxide solution , and then placed for twenty minutes on a sensitive plate , it evidently has become active , for it then gives a good picture .
The above remarks apply also to india-rubber .
The thinnest sheet that has been experimented with is 0-017 inch thick ; this allowed the action to pass through it , but was too thick to give a picture , but , like the guttapercha , if placed over the peroxide solution it became active , and produced considerable action on a photographic plate .
With regard to other substances which allow the action to take place through them , the most interesting are true gold beater 's skin , and albumen .
If Bristol board or paper be carefully painted on one side with white of egg and allowed to dry in the air , it forms a medium through which the peroxide can pass .
Collodion also allows the action readily to pass through it .
In all these cases the tetra-paper may be used to confirm the results obtained .
Then with regard to bodies which do not allow the action to pass through them .
Paraffin is one of them .
If paper be painted with melted paraffin and it be placed over a solution of the peroxide , no action passes through , neither is it able to absorb the peroxide like camphor and india-rubber and guttapercha .
A piece of paraffin placed over the peroxide solution for twenty hours and then tested by placing it on a sensitive plate produced no action .
Gum arabic is a body which sometimes is very opaque , but this is simply a question of hydration , and is confirmatory of what has been said before with regard to the action of water .
Some unglazed paper was painted on one side with two coats of good gum arabic , and some of it was dried at 55 ' for some days , and another portion of it was air-dried only for some hours , and both were put over drying oil for three days .
The dried paper gave only a very faint picture , but the more moist one a very dark picture .
When experimenting some time ago on the general nature of these reactions , polished zinc was placed below some inactive liquids to test whether any action took place through them .
The small glass dishes were used , and a disc of bright zinc laid inside , and the liquid to be tested poured upon it ; then the photographic plate was placed on the top of the dish .
After remaining there for three or four daj^s the plate was generally found acted on as if the zinc had been able to exert its influence upon it .
Lately these experiments have been repeated and extended , and , as ' indicating the extreme delicacy of the reaction with the photographic plates , are of interest .
The form of experiment was the same as described above , and the liquids used were alcohol , ether , ethyl acetate , chloroform , benzene , petroleum spirit .
All these liquids * Bernthsen , ' Organic Chemistry , ' p. 509 .
418 The active Agent in 'producing Photographs in the Park .
were purified , so that when placed in the dish with the sensitive plate above them no action after a week 's exposure took place .
However , when a zinc disc was introduced below the inactive liquids the photographic plate was generally acted on , but with the benzene and petroleum spirit sometimes no action occurred .
These rather singular results were next tested in another way .
Portions of these inactive liquids were put into stoppered bottles with polished strips of zinc foil , and allowed to remain there for a week , and it was then found that the liquid had become active , for on testing it by putting it into a dish with a photographic plate above it , a dark picture was formed , so that the action of the zinc was to make the whole of the liquid active .
Magnesium , cadmium , aluminium , fusible metal , and bismuth , all produced effects similar to those obtained with the zinc , but nickel , lead , tin , \amp ; c. , produced no such effects .
Further it was proved that a very small amount of peroxide rendered alcohol , for instance , very active ; OT c.c. of a 2 per cent , solution of the peroxide added to 10 c.c. of alcohol gave it the power of acting on a sensitive plate l inch above its surface , so as to produce in a few hours a dark picture .
The still more careful purification of these liquids , and especially the exclusion of moisture , was undertaken , and in every case it was found when all moisture was excluded that the zinc had no longer the power , when below a liquid , of acting on a photographic plate .
Specimens of alcohol , ether , and chloroform were prepared , and these when placed in a dish with zinc at the bottom of it ( standing over sulphuric acid ) allowed no action to pass through them , and when treated for a week or more with bright zinc in a bottle still retained their perfect inactivity .
To a sample of the alcohol which in a dish with zinc allowed no action on the sensitive plate above to occur , a trace of water was added , as much as adhered to the end of a thin glass rod , and now with the same length of exposure a dark picture was formed .
From these experiments , as well as those previously mentioned , it appears that this action on the photographic plate is one of extreme delicacy .
The action of water alone on zinc is interesting , and appears to confirm the view that hydrogen peroxide is the active agent in all these reactions .
It has already been shown that although bright zinc is active , dull zinc is inactive .
However , if a piece of bright zinc be placed in water and remains there for twenty-four hours or so , it , of course , oxidises , white spots or lines appear , and , in fact , in time the whole surface would become covered with oxide .
Now the oxide thus formed is strongly active .
Take the plate out of the water , let it dry , place it in contact with a photographic plate , and a strong picture of the spots of oxide is obtained .
No doubt peroxide of hydrogen is formed , and remains entangled in this porous oxide ; in fact it is difficult entirely to remove it .
The plate , with this oxide on it , may be dried at ordinary temperatures and exposed to the air for a day or two , and Proceedings and List of Papers read .
419 the oxide is still active , or it may be dried over calcium chloride or even exposed to a vacuum for some time , and it is still active , but if heated to 55 ' for seventeen hours then its activity is gone and a picture the reverse of the former one is obtained , that is , the oxide is now quite inactive , but the metal itself is very slightly active .
Oxides of zinc , cadmium , and magnesium , if wetted with peroxide of hydrogen \#166 ; solution , act in the same way and retain their activity with great pertinacity .
From the foregoing experiments it is then concluded that hydrogen peroxide is the agent which directly or indirectly causes the changes in the photographic plate .
This investigation has been carried on in the Davy-Faraday laboratory , and I would again tender my best thanks to the managers of the Royal Institution for allowing me to work there .
My thanks are also due to Mr. 0 .
F. Block who has most efficiently helped in carrying on the above experiments .
March 9 , 1899 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " A Preliminary Note upon certain Organisms isolated from Cancer , and their Pathogenic Effects upon Animals .
" By H. G. Plimmer .
Communicated by Dr. Rose Bradford , F.R.S. II .
" On the Gastric Gland of Mollusca and Decapod Crustacea ; its Structure and Functions .
" By Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. III .
" On the Structure and Affinities of Matonia R. Bi\ , with Notes on the Geological History of the Matoninese .
" By A. C. Seward , F.R.S. IY .
" A Sugar Bacterium .
" By Professor Marshall Ward , F.R.S. , and Professor Reynolds Green , F.R.S. V. " Note on a new Form of Light Plane Mirrors .
" By A. Mallock .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. VOL. LXIV .

