1894 .
] Organisation , and Classification of Fossil Reptilia .
227 .
VI .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
Part IX .
Section 2 .
On the Reputed Mammals from the Karroo Formation of Cape Colony .
" By H. Gr .
Seeley , F.R.S. Received January 4 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The author re-examines the remains of , and contests the interpretation of the carpus given by Professor Bardeleben , producing specimens of South African Reptiles in which there is a single bone beneath the radius , as in Theriodesmus .
This character is shown in a small skeleton , at present undescribed , which the author obtained from Klipfontein , Fraserberg , which he regards as referable to a new genus .
Other evidence is produced supporting the interpretation of three bones in the proximal row in the carpus , in a specimen from Lady Frere .
The author then compares the forelimb of Theriodesmus with that of which was obtained subsequently , and arrives at the conclusion that the types of limb are too closely related to be referred to different orders of animals , and therefore that Theriodesmus must be transferred from the Mammalia to the Therosuchia .
The skull described as Tritylodon longcevus is examined , and its close resemblance to the skulls of new Theriodonts is pointed out .
The author believes that it shows evidence of possessing both prefrontal and post-frontal bones , which were situate as in Theriodonts , and circumscribed the orbits in the same way ; so that , although the post-frontal bones appear to have met in the median line to form a crest , at the back of the frontal , there is no other character in the skull by which it can be distinguished from the skull of a Theriodont .
It therefore appears to be reptilian , and thus would make known divided roots to the molar teeth in Reptilia , and a more complicated type of crown than in any Theriodont yet known .
VII .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
Part IX .
Section 3 .
On fiiademodon .
" By H. Q- .
Seeley , F.R.S. Received January 12 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The author describes fragments of jaws and teeth from Upper arroo strata at Wonderboom and Aliwal North , collected by R. D. annemeyer and Alfred Brown .
They may possibly belong to more 228 Mr. S. Bidwell .
Effect of Magnetisation upon the [ Mar. 1 than one genus ; but , in absence of sufficient knowledge of the skull to establish differences , the four species are referred to a new genus , Diademodon .
Its hinder molar teeth have undivided roots , and low crowns , which are subquadrate or transversely ovate , surrounded by a diadem of low cusps , which are chiefly developed on the external and internal borders , with crenulations or minute cusps on the anterior and posterior margins of these teeth .
There is a low central cusp in the middle of the crown from which slight ridges extend , chiefly in the transverse direction ; but in the type species these ridges take the form of a cross .
The species are distinguished by the form of the crown and the details of the cusps .
The upper and lower teeth are opposed so as to be evenly worn , but the mandibular teeth are narrower .
These teeth are highly specialised , but distinct in plan from Tritylodon , and from all known Reptiles .
They closely approximate to some of the higher Mammalia .
The author refers Diademodon to a division of the Theriodontia in which the teeth become worn with use , which is named Gomphodontia .
VIII .
" On the Effect of Magnetisation upon the Dimensions of Wires and Rings of Annealed Iron .
" By Shelford Bidwell , M.A. , LL. B. , F.R.S. Received February 14 , 1894 .
In the year 1885 I submitted to the Royal Society the first of a series of papers* upon the changes produced by magnetisation in the dimensions of rods , \amp ; c. , of iron and other magnetic metals .
The chief , and perhaps the most interesting , subject of the paper was the observation that if the magnetising force were sufficiently increased , the extension which a magnetised iron rod at first underwent ( as originally noticed by Joulef ) was followed by contraction , the rod ultimately becoming shorter than when it was unmagnetised .
The elongation was generally found to attain a maximum with a magnetising force of from 80 to 120 C.G.S. units , and to vanish with a force of 300 to 400 , retraction occurring when still higher forces were applied .
From that date until quite recently no accounts of similar experiments by other workers have , so far as I know , been published .
About the beginning of last year , however , it was stated in the scientific journals that M. Alphonse Berget had investigated the magnetic dilatation of iron in strong fields , and had found that the length of his bar was still increasing when the magnetic field had * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 40 ( 1886 ) , pp. 109 , 257 ; vol. 43 ( 1888 ) , p. 407 ; vol. 47 ( 1890 ) , p. 469 ; vol. 51 ( 1892 ) , p. 495 .
' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 179 , A ( 1888 ) , p. 205 .
f Joule 's 'Scientific Papers , ' pp. 48 and 235 .

