January 29 , 1852 .
COLONEL SABINE , R.A. , Treastrre , in the Chair .
The reading of Dr. Handfield Jones ' paper , " On the Structure of the Liver , " was resumed and concluded .
Dr. Leidy and Professor Retzius , with Muller , Weber and Khronenberg , maintain the existence of plexuses of ducts in the parenchyma of the liver containing the cells in their tubes .
Some other anatomists , especially Gerlach , believe the ducts to be prolonged into the lobules of the parenchyma , under the form of mere intercellular passages without walls .
Injections of acetate of lead in saturated solution , throwtn into the ductus communis choledochus , produce appearances which seem to confirm the latter view .
The author , however , believes them to be fallacious , and that the ducts really terminate , as he has described them in his former paper , by closed extremities , either rounded and even , or somewhat irregular .
Further details are given of the condition of the ultimate and penultimate ducts ih the several vertebrate classes .
In the class of Fishes , the minute ducts most commonly appear as solid cylinders of soft granulous substance , in which scarce anything but some oily molecules are to be discerned ; but not very unfrequently two other conditions are observed , which seem to illustrate very well the active character of the function of the duct , In the first the granulous matter exists in much smaller quantity , and the nuclei imbedded in it are consequently seen much more distinctly ; their presence is thus unequivocally determined ; it is shown that there is no real difference between the ducts of the fish 's and those of the mammalian liver , only that the granulous matter is usually accumulated in the former more abundantly than in the latter .
The .
presence of free nuclei in granulous matter indicates an active change to be proceeding in the part .
In the second condition sometimes observed the granulous matter lies imbedded in it , a varying number of pellucid vesicles of great delicacy , but quite distinct ; these testify that a process of active growth takes place in the minute ducts , and show , the author thinks conclusively : , that the seminute ducts are not mere efferent canals .
Sugar was detected on tWo or three occasions in : the livers of fishes ; it seems to be-absent when the organ is extremely fatty .
In the minute hepatic ducts of reptiles , the condition of the epi* thelium is very similar to that in fishes ; the nuclei sometimes appearing with great distinctness , sometimes being obscured by much granulous matter , sometimes developing themselves into pellucid vesicles .
The livers of frogs and toads almost constantly contain dark yellow masses which Were formerly regarded by the author as biliary concretions , but are now considered to be only pigmentary deposits ; they coexist sometimes with much diffused black matter .
The ultimate ducts have been traced recently very satisfactorily in Birds , Mammalia and Man , and the description given of them in the paper accords with the author 's former account .
The development of the liver and its apparatus of ducts has been traced out in fishes and reptiles , and the following results obtained in both classes .
( 1 .
) The liver ( i. e. the parenchyma of the organ ) is formed as an independent mass , and does not , proceed as an effect from the in .
testine .
( 2 .
) The gall-bladder is developed separately as a transparent vesicle , containing a clear fluid .
( 3 .
) The gall-bladder elongates itself : at one end , tends towards the intestine , and at last opens into it , while from one part of its extent hepatic ducts are developed ; in the Frog the hepatic duets seem , however , to be formed at the same time ' as the gall-bladder , and to be develped-pari passu along withit .
The cystic duet is lined by ciliary epithelium which plays very actively .
The examination of the process of development in the chick has confirmed , so far as it was carried , the account given in the former paper .
In Mammalia the subject of inquiry has been chiefly the following , viz , to ascertain how far there was evidence that the secretion of bile actually is effected in and by the hepatic cell , or whether its presence in them is accidental , and the bile is really and necessarily secreted by the ultimate ducts .
It is remarked that the existence of a portal vein conveying blood from the intestinal surface is coeval , not with the formation of a bile-secreting structure ( for many animals have organs which secrete abundance of biliary matter without any portal .
vein ) , but with the addition of a parenchymatous mass to the biliary organ , to which mass exclusively the portal vein is distributed .
It is known that the parenchyma of the liver during , and for many hours after , digestion of food , -forms , from the blood supplied to it , abundance of sugar , which thus appears to be its proper secretion ; and it is not proved that the hepatic cells in a healthy state contain biliary matter , though they often do in various morbid conditions .
Extracts of the hepatic parenchyma tested for bile by Pettenkoffer 's method , give only very imperfect and doubtful traces of the presence of biliary matter , and on the other hand the sugar formed by the parenchyma , which is found so abundantly in the blood of the hepatic vein , is absent from the bile .
The case of fatty liver , as occurring either pathologically or normally , seems also to require an explanation consonant with the view , to which the above facts point , for otherwise it seems impossible to understand how perfectly formed darkgreen bile could be contained in the efferent channels of a gland whose tissue is a mass of oil .
The structural condition of the ultimate biliary ducts is compared to that of the epithelium of the thyroidal cavities , and the nucleated granular tissue surrounding the lacteal in a villus ; and it is shown to be probable that the terminal portions of the ducts , -so far as they possess the peculiar characteristic structure , exert an active elaborating energy , by means of which bile is formed or generated out of oily , albuminous or saccharine material which surrounds , --may be said to bathe them .
-

