94 On the Mathematical Theory of Combined Streams .
[ Nov. 17 , factor of resistance , F , is given , into a reservoir in which the pressure P and the elevation Z of the surface above the junction-chamber are given .
These , together with the areas A , av a2 , \amp ; c. , are the quantities given .
The functional values given are those of the bulkiness , s0\gt ; 1 , s0,2 , \amp ; c. , and S0 , as before ; also the following values of the velocities , according to well-known principles in hydrodynamics ; for any component stream , **( , ... ... ... ... ... ... ( 5 ) and for the resultant stream , The functional values given are to be substituted in equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , whose solution will then give the numerical values o(p0 and P0 ; and from these and the other data the numerical values of vl \amp ; e. and of Y may be calculated .
November 17 , 1870 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
General Boileau , Mr. Busk , Mr. David Forbes , Sir John Lubbock , and Mr. Mivart , having been nominated by the President , were elected by ballot Auditors of the Treasurer 's accounts on the part of the Society .
Mr. Andrew Noble , Capt. Sherard Osborn , and Mr. George Frederic Yerdon were admitted into the Society .
Anders Jons Angstrom , of Upsala , and Joseph Antoine Ferdinand Plateau , of Ghent , were proposed for election as Foreign Members , and notice was given from the Chair that these gentlemen would be ballotted for at the next Meeting .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. \lt ; e Researches into the Chemical Constitution of the Opium Bases .
\#151 ; Part IY .
On the Action of Chloride of Zinc on Codeia .
" By Augustus Matthiessen , F.R.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , and W. Burnside , of Christ 's Hospital .
Received June 23 , 1870 .
( See page 71 .
) 1870 .
] Prof. Owen on the Fossil Mammals of Australia .
II .
" Experiments on the Action of Red Bordeaux Wine ( Claret ) on the Human Body .
" By E. A. Parks , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Hygiene in the Army Medical School , and Count Cyprian Wollowicz , M.D. , Assistant Surgeon , Army Medical Staff .
Received July 5 , 1870 .
( See page 73 .
) III .
" On the Mathematical Theory of Combined Streams .
" By W. J. Macquorn Rankine , C.E. , LL. D. , P.R.SS .
Lond. and Edinb .
Received Sept. 10 , 1870 .
( See page 90 .
) IV .
" On the Fossil Mammals of Australia.\#151 ; Part IV .
Dentition and Mandible of Thylacoleo Carnifex , with Remarks on the Argument for its Herbivority .
" By Prof. Owen , F.R.S. \amp ; c. Received September 27 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author , referring in the Introductory Section ( S 1 ) to objections published to his former restorations and inferences as to the function of the dentition of Thylacoleo , proceeds to give descriptions , with figures , of ( S 2 ) an upper jaw and maxillary teeth , and ( S 3 ) of a portion of the mandible with mandibular teeth , from tertiary deposits at Gowrie Creek , Queensland , presented to the British Museum by Sir Daniel Cooper , Bart. He then describes certain specimens and photographs of maxillary teeth ( S 4 ) , and of mandibular teeth ( S 5 ) of the subsequently obtained by Prof. A. M. Thomson , of Sydney , and Gerard Krefft , Esq. , Curator of the Museum of Natural History , Sydney , New South Wales , from caves in Wellington valley , for the exploration of which a grant had been voted by the Local Legislature of New South Wales .
Section 6 is given to a description of the specimen in the British Museum , and a cast in the Museum at Sydney of an entire inferior incisor , transmitted , with the photograph above mentioned , to the author .
The guiding principle in inferring function from form of teeth is next defined ( S 7 ) , and the author proceeds to discuss the objection from the location of laniaries in S 8 .
The dentitions of Thylacoleo and of Phascolarctos are compared in S 9 ; and the results contrasted with those of the advocates of the herbivority of both genera , which were illustrated by the figures 2 \amp ; 4 in the ' Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society , 'vol .
xxiv .
pp. 312 , 313 ( 1868 ) .
In S 10 the deductions from the mandibular characters of carnivorous and herbivorous marsupials are tested , and those characters illustrated by descriptions and figures of the lower jaw in Thylacoleo , Cheiromys , it itml ax , Thylacinus , Sarcophilus , Phascolarctos , and The testimony to the native food of the Aye-aye is sifted in S 11 , and the 96 Prof. Owen on the Fossil Mammals of Australia .
[ Nov. 17 , bearing of the characters of its mandible and dentition on the question of the carnivority or herbivority of Thylacoleo is weighed .
A like comparison and physiological consideration are applied to the mandibular characters of Thylacoleo , Plagiaulax , and the true Rodentia in S 12 ; and the author next ( S 13 ) proceeds to the consideration of the form , structure , and growth of the large incisors in the Diprodont paucidentate Marsupials , and in the lemurine and lissencephalous Rodents .
To the affirmation of " the obviously phytophagous type of the incisors of Thylacoleo and Plagiaulax , " the author , referring to the descriptions and figures of those teeth in the preceding part of his paper , enters upon a consideration of the relations of their differences from those teeth in the truly phytophagous Marsupials and Placentals to interrupted and continuous application of teeth ( S 14 ) .
The alleged adaptability of the carnassials in Thylacoleo to reduction of vegetable food leads next to a consideration of the work of the molar machinery in known existing Herbivora ( S 15 ) .
In section 16 the place , and especially the family relations , of the Thylacoleo in the Marsupial order are considered .
Instances of existing di-protodonts subsisting on animal food , and of existing polyprotodonts on vegetable food , are adduced ; and , after comparisons with the genera Macropus , Halmaturus , Lagorchestes , Heteropus , Petrogale , Osphranter , Dendrolagus , Hypsiprymnus , Bettongia , Potorous , Cuscus , Phascolarctos , Phalangista , Hepoona , Bactylopsila , Petaurus , Belideus , Acrobata , Petaurista , Bromicia , Tarsipes , the author is led to assign Plagiaulax and Thylacoleo to a distinct family of Diprotodont Marsupials under the name " Paucidentata , " in reference to the reduction of the molar teeth to one on each side of the upper jaw , and two on each side of the lower jaw .
He then ( in S 17 ) discusses the reality and value of the indications of tendency from the " general to the particular " in the dentition of the mesozoic and neozoic Paucidentate Marsupials .
The objections to the predaceous nature of Thylacoleo and Plagiaulax from their alleged feebleness and dwarfishness are discussed in S 18 .
The grounds on which John Hunter was led to refer the molar of Mastodon ohioticus to either a carnivorous or a mixed-feeding animal , and those on which the author refers the dentition and skull of Thylacoleo to a carnivorous species , are contrasted , and the nature of a disparaging comparison is exposed in S 19 .
The author concludes by a description of certain unequal phalanges , which supported a strong claw , hound close by a basal bony sheath , as in the Lion , obtained from the breccia-caves of Wellington valley , and for which , among the fossils thence exhumed , there is not , at present , any other claimant save Thylacoleo .

