161 1885 .
] Underground Tem , fyc .
Having filled a fresh , tube with fresh spun glass , I carefully exhausted with the Sprengel pump on January 24th , and the exhaustion was kept up till February 5th , that is , for twelve days .
During this time I frequently tested with the McLeod gauge .
A very i slight increase of pressure was found during that interval ; but it was iso slight that I am not able to say that it was greater than that \lt ; which is observed at all times , even with the Sprengel pump in excellent order , when a vacuum is maintained for several days .
On February 5th , I passed three or four bottlesful of mercury through the pump , and had a vacuum of about 0*5 M as shown by the McLeod gauge .
I then applied heat , and had instantly an abundance of gas given off from the spun glass .
This was collected as before , and analysed .
The number of glass fibres was 15,500 , giving an estimated surface area of 3527 sq .
centims. The amount of gas given off was 0'41 c.c. ; which is considerably less in proportion than in my first experiment .
Of this gas it was found that 78'6 per cent , was carbonic acid gas ( absorbable by caustic potash ) .
Of the remainder 10'5 per cent , was oxygen ( absorbed by pyrogallic acid and potash ) ; while 89'5 per cent , was left unabsorbed ; and may be supposed to be mainly nitrogen .
The very large proportion of carbonic acid gas is remarkable , and it is difficult to account for , unless we may suppose that it was taken up by the glass in large quantity during the operations of drawing out the glass into fibres , and enclosing it in the containing tube\#151 ; operations during which there was , in these preliminary experiments , an abundant supply from the blowpipe flames .
II .
" On Underground Temperatures , with Observations on the Conductivity of Rocks , on the Thermal Effects of Saturation and Imbibition , and on a special Source of Heat in Mountain Ranges .
" By Joseph Prestwich , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
Received January 24 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The author remarks on the difference of opinion between physicists and geologists respecting the probable thickness of the outer crust of the earth\#151 ; the former , on the strength of its great rigidity and the absence of tides , contending for a maximum thickness and comparative solidity of the whole mass ; while the latter , in general , on the evidence of volcanic action , the crumpling and folding of the strata in mountain ranges , its general flexibility down to the most 162 Prof. J. Prestwich .
Underground Temperatures , [ Feb. 12 , j recent geological times , and the rate of increase of temperature in descending beneath the surface , contend for a crust of minimum thickness as alone compatible with these phenomena .
The question of underground temperature , which is a subject equally affecting the argument on both sides , had engaged the author 's attention in connexion with an inquiry respecting volcanic action , and he was induced to tabulate the results to see how far the usually received rates of increase were affected by various interfering causes\#151 ; not that most of them had not received due attention , but it was a question whether sufficient allowance had been made for them .
Although Gensanne 's first experiments were made in 1740 , and others were subsequently made by Daubuisson , Saussure , and Cordier , in coal and other mines , it was not until the construction of deep artesian wells commenced in the second quarter of 'this century , and Walferdin introduced his overflow thermometer , and precautions were taken against pressure , that the more reliable observations were made and admirably discussed by Arago .
The Coal Commission of 1866 collected a mass of important evidence bearing on the question , and in 1867 a Committee of the British Association was appointed to collect further information .
Under the able superintendence of Professor Everett , a series of valuable experiments with improved instruments has been made , and full particulars published in the Annual Reports of 1868\#151 ; 1883 .
But notwithstanding the precautions taken , and the accuracy of the experiments , they present very wide differences in the thermometric gradient , ranging from under 30 to above 120 feet per degree Fahr. Consequently different writers have adopted different mean values .
On the Continent one of 30 metres per degree C. has been commonly adopted , while in this country some writers have taken a mean of 50 feet per degree , and others of 60 feet or more .
The object which the author has in view ' is to see whether it is not possible to eliminate ihe more doubtful instances , and to bring the probable true normal gradient within narrower limits .
In so doing he confines himself solely to the geological side of the inquiry .
In a general list , Table I , he gives all the recorded observations in the order of date .
The list embraces observations at 530 stations in 248 localities .
The most reliable of these he classifies under three heads , in Tables II , III , and IY .
1 .
Coal mines .
2 .
Mines other than coal .
3 .
Artesian wells and bore-holes .
To which tunnels are added in a supplement .
The author then proceeds to point out that the gradients given in many of the earlier observations were wrong in consequence of neglecting the height of the surface , and from the exact mean annual 1885.j Conductivity of , \lt ; $rc .
temperature of the locality not being known .
They also differed amongst themselves from taking different surface temperatures , and starting from different datum levels .
To these he endeavours to assign uniform and corrected values .
The essential differences in the results in the several tables depend , however , upon dissimilar geological conditions , which unequally affect the conductivity of the strata , and disturbing causes of different orders .
In the mines the latter are\#151 ; 1 .
The currents established by ventilation and convection .
2 .
The circulation of underground waters .
3 .
Chemical reactions .
4 .
The working operations .
And in artesian wells\#151 ; 1 .
The pressure of the water on the thermometers .
2 .
Convection currents in the column of water .
In the later experiments pressure has been thoroughly guarded against , but against the subtle influence of the other causes , though long known , it is more difficult to guard .
Goal Mines.\#151 ; The author then proceeds seriatim with each subject , commencing with coal mines .
In these he shows that ventilation and convection currents have rendered many of the results unreliable , as he shows to have been the case in the well-known instance of the Dukin field coal pit .
The circulation of air in coal pits varies from 5000 to 150,000 cubic feet per minute , and tables are given to show how this variously affects the temperature of the coal at different distances from the shaft though on the same level .
As a rule , the deeper the pit the more active is the ventilation , and therefore the more rapid the cooling of the underground strata .
In some pits the in-draughted air has been known to form ice , not only in the shaft , but icicles in the mine near the shaft .
The cooling effects of ventilation are shown to begin immediately that the faces of the rock and coal are exposed , and as the hotter ( and deeper ) the pit , and the more gassy the^ coal , the more active is the ventilation , so these surfaces rapidly undergo a cooling until an equilibrium is established between the normal underground temperature and the temperature of the air in the gallery .
Judging by the effects of the diurnal variations on the surface of the ground , it is clear that when there is a difference of 10 ' to 12 ' or more between the air in the gallery and the normal temperature of the rock , an exposure even of a few days must tell on the surfaces of both coal and rock to the depth of the 3 to 4 feet\#151 ; the usual depth of the holes in which the thermometers are placed .
The designation of " fresh open faces " is no security , as that may mean a day or a week , or more .
The author considers also that so far from the length and permanence of the experiment affording security , he is satisfied 164 Prof. J. Prestwich .
Underground , [ Feb. 12 on the contrary that those experiments in which it is stated that the thermometer has been left in the rock for a period of a week , * ; month , or two years without any change of temperature , affords primd facie evidence of error , inasmuch as it shows that the rock has so far lost heat as to remain in a state of equilibrium with the air .
at the lower temperature in constant circulation .
Another cause of the loss of heat which requires some notice is the j escape of the gas , which exists in the coal either in a highly com. piessed , or , as the author thinks more probable , in a liquid state .
A strong blower of gas has been observed to render the coal sensibly \#166 ; cooler to the touch .
In another case whereas the temperature of the coal at the depth of 1269 feet was 74 ' F. , at the greater depth of 1588 feet in a hole with a blower of gas it was only 62 ' .
One wit-ness observed that " the coal gives out heat quicker than the rock .
" There is generally a difference of 2 ' or 3 ' between the two .
On the other hand , the coal and rocks when crushed and in " creeps " acquire a higher temperature owing to the liberation of heat by crushing .
The effects of irregularities of the surface on the underground isotherms , although unimportant in many of our coal-fields , produce very decided results in the observations on the same level in the mines among the hills of South Wales .
Sections are given to show how the temperature rises under hills and falls under valleys , showing that it is often essential to know not only the depth of the shaft but the depth beneath the surface at each station where the experiments are made .
The author therefore considers that to assign a value to an observation we should know\#151 ; *1 .
Height of pit above sea level .
2 .
The exact mean annual temperature of the place .
3 .
Depth beneath the surface of each station .
4 .
Distance of the stations from the shaft .
| 5 .
Temperature and columns of air in circulation .
6 .
Length of exposure of face .
7 .
Whether or not the coal is gassy .
The dip of the strata and the quantity of water are also to be noted .
" Very few of the recorded observations come up to this standard , I and the author has felt himself obliged to make a very restricted ; selection of cases on which to establish the probable thermometric gradient for the coal strata .
Amongst the best observations are those made at Boldon , North Seaton , South Hetton , Rosebridge , Wakefield , \#166 ; Liege and Mons. .
These give a mean gradient of 49^ feet for each \ degree F. The bore-holes at Blythswood , South Balgray , and Creuzot ; give a mean of 50#8 feet .
Mines other than Goal.\#151 ; The causes affecting the thermal conditions of these mines are on the whole very different to those which obtain in coal mines .
Ventilation affects both , but in very unequal degrees .
In mineral mines it is much less active , and the cooling effects are ; 1885 .
] Conductivity of , fyc .
\lt ; proportionately less .
On the other hand the loss of heat by the I underground waters in mineral mines is very important .
In some j mines in Cornwall , the quantity of water pumped up does not exceed { g gallons , while in others it amounts to 200 gallons per minute .
The Dolcoath mine used to furnish half a million gallons of water in the twenty-four hours , while at the Huel Abraham mine it reached the large quantity of above 2,000,000 gallons daily .
The rainfall in ?
Cornwall is about 46 inches annually , and of this about 9 inches pass underground .
In the Gwennap district , where 5500 acres were combined for drainage purposes , above 20,000,000 gallons have been discharged in the twenty-four hours from a depth of 1200 feet .
This water issues at temperatures of from 60 ' to 68 ' , or more than 12 ' above the mean of the climate , showing how large must be the abstraction of heat from the rocks through which the waters percolate .
Hot springs are not uncommon in these mines .
They are due to chemical decomposition , and to water rising in the lodes and fissures from greater depths .
The decomposition which goes on in the lodes near the surface , and whereby the sulphides of iron and copper are reduced ultimately to the state of peroxides and carbonates of those metals , is a permanent cause of heat , especially apparent in the shallower mines .
On the other hand , where the surface waters pass !
rapidly through the rocks , they lower the temperature , and give too low readings .
While ventilation , therefore , reduces the rock temperature , the water which percolates through the rock , and more especially through the veins and cross-courses , sometimes raise , and at other times lower the temperature of the underground springs .
Mr. Were Fox , who for many years made observations on the underground temperature of the Cornish mines , gave the preference to the rocks , while Mr. Henwood , an observer equally experienced and assiduous , considered that the underground springs gave surer results .
Both were of course fully alive to all the precautions that in either case it was necessary to take to guard against these causes of interference .
Taking ten of the most reliable of Mr. Henwood 's observations at depths of from 800 to 2000 feet , the mean gives a thermometric gradient of 42*4 feet per degree , but Mr. Henwood himself gives us the mean of 134 observations to the depth of 1200 feet , a gradient of 41 " 5 feet to the experiments in granite , and of 39 feet to those in slate .
Taking the experiments of Mr. Fox in eight mines , varying in depth from 1100 to 2100 feet , the mean of the experiments made in the rock give a gradient of 43'6 feet per degree .
The mean of the two observers give a gradient of 43 feet per degree .
For the foreign mines , in the absence of fuller data , and especially failing in information of the depth of the station beneath the surface , 166 Prof. J. Prestwich .
Underground Temperatures , [ Feb. 12 which in the hilly district of Freiberg and Hungary introduces an element of great uncertainty , it is impossible to arrive at any safe ; conclusion .
Artesian Wells and Borings.\#151 ; This class of observations presents i results much more uniform , and whereas the mines observations ' i were made , the one in crystalline , and the other in unaltered palseo- i zoic rocks , the wells are , with few exceptions , in the softer and less coherent rocks either of Cretaceous , Jurassic , and Triassic age , which ) are much more permeable , and , as a rule , much less disturbed .
The causes of interference are mainly reduced to pressure on the instruments and convection currents .
The early experiments , where i no precautions were taken against these , are , with few exceptions , \ unreliable , and must be rejected .
The larger the bore-hole the greater I the risk of convection currents , and Professor Everett has shown i that in many cases of deep and large artesian borings , the water ) which lodges in them is reduced to a nearly uniform temperature | throughout the whole depth by the action of these currents .
In the I deep boring at Sperenberg , before the introduction of plugs to stop these currents , it was found that the temperature near the top of the bore was rendered 4'5 ' F. too high , and at the bottom at a depth of 3390 feet , 4'6 ' , if not 6'7 ' , too high by the currents .
Taking the bore-holes in which the water does not overflow , and where , owing to the precautions against these sources , such as those of Kentish Town , Richmond , Grenelle , Sperenberg , Pregny , and Ostend , we get a mean gradient of 51'9 feet per degree .
Overflowing artesian wells should , if we were sure of all the conditions , give the best and most certain results .
Taking those where f the volume of water is large , and the observations made by competent observers , as in the case of the wells of Grenelle , Tours , Rochefort , 1 Mondorff , Min den , and others , we obtain a mean of 50-2 feet , or taking the two sets of wells , of 51 feet per degree .
The author , however , points out a source of possible error in those i wells , arising from a peculiarity of tubage which requires investigation , and owing to which he thinks the water may suffer a loss of heat in ascending to the surface .
With respect to the extra-European wells , more particulars are required .
It may be observed , however , that the wells in the Sahara Desert , which were made by an experienced engineer accustomed to such observations , the mean of eleven overflowing wells , at depths of from 200 to 400 feet , gave 36 feet per degree .
Tunnels.\#151 ; For the Mont Cenis Tunnel , allowing for the convexity of the surface , Professor Everett estimates the gradient at 79 feet , and for the St. Gothard , 82 feet per degree .
But Dr. Stapff found in the granite at the north end of the tunnel a much greater heat and more rapid gradient , for which there seemed no obvious explanation .
1885 .
] Conductivity of Mocks , Sfc .
Though this axis of the Alps is of late Tertiary date , the author points out that it cannot be due to the protrusion of the granite , as the Swiss geologists have shown that the granite was in its present relative position and solidified before the elevation of this last main axis of the Alps , and he suggests that the higher temperature may Ibe a residue of the heat caused by the intense lateral pressure and ^crushing of the rocks which accompanied that elevation , for in the crushing of a rigid material such as rock , almost the entire mechanical work reappears as heat .
Conductivity of the Rocks .
Effects of Saturation and Imbibition.\#151 ; Some of the apparent discrepancies in the thermometric gradients are no doubt due to differences in the conductivity of the rocks .
Applying the valuable determinations of Professors Herschel and Lebour to the groups of strata characterising the several classes of observations , the following results are obtained r\#151 ; Mean Mean conductivity .
resistance .
k. r. 1 .
Carboniferous strata *00488 ... 275 2 .
Crystalline and schistoze rocks .
'00546 .
... 184 3 .
Triassic and cretaceous strata. .
'00235 ... 465 Prom this it would appear that the conductivity of the rocks associated with the mineral mines is twice as great as that of the artesian wells class .
But all the experiments , with the exception of three or four , were made with blocks of dried rocks , and those showed a very remarkable difference ; thus , for example , dry New Bed Sandstone gave k000250 , whereas when wet it was increased to k 0'00600 .
The author remarks that as all rocks below the level of the sea and that of the river valleys are permanently saturated with water , dry rocks are the exception , and wet rocks the rule in nature , consequently the inequalities of conductivity must tend to disappear .
The power of conduction is also greater along the planes of cleavage or lamination than across them , and therefore the dip of the strata must also exercise some influence on the conductivity of different rocks and " massifs .
" With respect to the foliated and schistose rocks , M. Jannettaz has shown that the axes of the thermic curve along and across the planes of foliation and cleavage , are in the following proportions : \#151 ; Gneiss of St. Gothard ... ... ... . . .
1 : 1*50 Schists of Col Yoza ... ... ... ... .
1 : 1*80 Cambrian Slates , Belgium ... ... . .
1 : 1*98 This cause will locally affect the rock masses .
Conclusion.\#151 ; The author deduces from the three classes of observations a general mean thermic gradient of 48 feet per degree Fahr. , bat168 Prof. J. H. Pointing .
Electric Current and [ Feb. 12 , he considers this only an approximation to the trne normal gradient and that the readings of the Coal-mines and Artesian-well experiments are , owing to the causes he enumerates , still too high .
He also discusses the question whether or not the gradient changes with the depth .
His own reduction of the observations gave no result , but he ' points out that in all probability the circulation of water arising !
from the extreme tension of its vapour is stayed at a certain depth ; while as it is known experimentally that the conductivity of iron diminishes rapidly as the temperature increases , this may possibly in a different degree apply to rocks .
If , therefore , there is any change , these indications would be in favour of a more rapid gradient .
Taking all these conditions into consideration , the author inquires whether a gradient of 45 feet per degree may not be nearer the true normal than even the one of 48 feet obtained by the observations .
III .
" On the Connexion between Electric Current and the Electric and Magnetic Inductions in the surrounding Field .
" By J. H. Pointing , M.A. , late Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , Professor of Physics , Mason College , Birmingham .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , M.A. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received January 31 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) This paper describes a hypothesis as to the connexion between current in conductors and the transfer of electric and magnetic inductions in the surrounding field .
The hypothesis is suggested by the mode of transfer of energy in the electromagnetic field , resulting from Maxwell 's equations investigated in a former paper ( " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 175 , pp. 343\#151 ; 361 , 1884 ) .
It was there shown that according to Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory the energy which is dissipated in the circuit is transferred through the medium , always moving perpendicularly to the plane containing the lines of electric and magnetic intensity , and that it comes into the conductor from the surrounding insulator , not flowing along the wire .
Symbolising the nature of the induction by unit tubes drawn in the direction of the induction in the usual way , i.e. , so that there is unit quantity of induction over every section of a tube , the electric induction is equal to K x electric intensity-4-4tt , and the magnetic induction is equal to / u , xmagnetic intensity .
The electric induction is the same quantity as Maxwell 's " displacement .
" The hypothesis now made

