1885 ] .
Prof. Malet on Rev. R. Harley s Paper .
II .
" Note on Rev. Robert Harley 's paper , 'Professor Malet 's Classes of Invariants identified with Sir Janies Cockle 's Criticoids .
" By John C. Malet .
Received March 7 , 1885 .
| In 1882 , a paper of mine " On a Class of Invariants " appeared in the " Philosophical Transactions , " in which I used , for the determina-| tion of theorems , two classes of functions of the coefficients of linear ; differential equations .
In consequence of a communication from the | Rev. Robert Harley , I appended to the paper the following note :\#151 ; " Since the publication of the abstract of this paper , the Rev. R. Harley has mentioned to me that the first class of functions treated of here have [ has ] been already investigated by Sir James Cockle ; having consulted the memoirs I was referred to by Mr. Harley , I think little similarity will be found between Sir James Cockle 's results and mine.\#151 ; J. C. M. " One omission I certainly made , * through ignorance , in this note , and I regret it ; I did not notice that the second class of functions had also been treated of by Sir James Cockle ; this omission , however , appears to me to be a slight one , for anyone treating of the first class would almost as a matter of course be led to treat of the second also , and the existence of the functions is so obvious as hardly to need proof , and the determination of them was with me a process of calculation carried on as far as was necessary for the purposes of my paper .
As far as concerns the mere existence of these functions , certainly those of the first class , the credit of discovering them might be fairly claimed for the writers who first pointed out the strict analogy that exists between linear differential equations and ordinary algebraic equations , for when the second term of an equation is removed , the new coefficients will of course be functions of the old .
It never , therefore , occurred to me that anyone reading my note would suppose that I there pieant to assert that the functions previously treated of by Sir James Cockle were not identical with those I made use of , and that the latter part of my note referred to the mere calculation of them .
However , more than two years after the publication of my paper , Mr. Harley communicated to the Royal Society the paper mentioned in the heading of this note , and which I have just seen in the number of the " Proceedings " recently published .
In this paper Mr. Harley Bays : " Professor Malet says that having consulted the memoirs to which I referred him , he thinks ' little similarity will be found between Sir * Due , no doubt , to oversight on my part.\#151 ; J. C. M. 212 Mr. J. N. Langley .
[ Mar. 19 , James Cockle 's results ' and his own .
The object of this communica- I tion is to show that there is not only similarity but absolute identity !
the two classes of functions considered by Professor Malet coinciding in every point with the ordinary and differential criticoids discussed by Sir James Cockle .
" My object in writing this note is to call attention to the fact that by the omission of the first part of my note , and his own comments oh the partial extract he makes from it , Mr. Harley represents me as making a statement bearing an interpretation very different from that I meant it to bear .
Having done so , I will trouble the Society with the matter no further , and will leave it to those who may be interested , to judge if the general results of my paper are identical with Sir James Cockle 's .
III .
" The 'Paralytic ' Secretion of Saliva .
" By J. N. Langley , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow and Lecturer of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received March 16 , 1885 .
It was shown by Claude Bernard that section of the chorda tympani nerve in the dog , causes , after an interval of about twenty-four hours , a slow " paralytic " secretion of saliva from the submaxillary gland ; the secretion continues for several weeks , and is accompanied by a gradual diminution in the size of the gland .
Heidenhain confirmed these observations , and he found further that the effect was not confined to the gland on the side of the body on which the nerve had been cut , but extended also to the corresponding gland of the opposite side of the body , so that section of either chorda tympani nerve caused a continuous secretion from both sub-maxillary glands .
Since Heidenhain 's paper in 1868 , nothing has , so far as I know , been published on this subject .
I purpose to give a brief account of some observations which were made by me several years ago , and which may serve to recall attention to certain curious facts touching both nerve and gland physiology .
Since the secretion , which takes place on the side of the body on which the nerve is cut , is called the " paralytic " secretion , we will call the corresponding secretion , which takes place on the opposite side of the body , the " anti-paralytic , " or more briefly the " antilytic " secretion.* I will consider first the paralytic and antilytic secretions during the first day or two of their occurrence .
Luring this time the * A fuller account will be published in the forthcoming number of the " Journal of Physiology .
"

