534 ZOOLOGY OF RODRIGUEZ .
Hymenoptera , Diptera , and Netjroptera.\#151 ; Frederick Smith .
Fifteen species of Hymenop ter a were collected by Messrs. G. Gulliver and H. H. Slater , twelve of which belong to the the remainder to the brantia or Ichneumonidous division ; five of the first of these divisions appear to be undescribed .
Six species of Formicidce were obtained , four being new to science : the other two have a cosmopolitan range ; one is the species described by Heer as the House Ant of Madeira , Bheidole pusilla ; the other is the gracillescens of Nylander , also found in Madeira , but common in conservatories generally ; it is found abundantly in the Botanical Gardens both at Kew and Paris .
The most interesting species of Apidce is the Apis unicolor of Latreille , first discovered in Madagascar , and subsequently in the island of Bourbon .
Two species of leaf-cutting Bees were found : both have a wide geographical range , as has also the only species of Wasp , Folistes hebrceus ; this has occurred in India , China , Mauritius , Madagascar , and in several of the islands of the Eastern Archipelago .
Six species of Diptera were obtained , two belonging to the ; these latter were in a fragmentary condition , and could neither be identified nor described ; of the remaining four one is a described species , the others being apparently new .
Of Neuroptera three species were found , all of which are described by Rambur from specimens obtained in Mauritius .
HYMENOPTERA .
Name of Species found in Rodriguez .
Hitherto found in Rodriguez only .
Previously obtained elsewhere .
Mauritius and Bourbon .
Madagas- car .
Other Localities .
Tapinoma pallipes , Smith X , , fragile , Smith X Monomorium elongatura , Smith - X " impressum , Smith - X - Prenolepis gracillescens , Cosmopolitan .
Pkeidole pusilla , Heer Cosmopolitan .
Scolia ( Dielis ) rufa , St. Farg .
- X Pelopceus convexus , Smith X Megaeliile rufiventris , X India .
" lanata , Fair .
X India .
Apis unicolor , Latr .
X X Polistes kebrseus , Fabr .
X X India , Java , Ckina .
Evania laevigata , Latr .
Australia , Angola , Egypt , Europe , Mexico .
Paniscus perforator , Smith X .
Ophion rufus , Bridle - - - X | Bengal , Java , Africa .
HYMENOPTERA.\#151 ; F. SMITH .
Formicidae .
Tapinoma , Foerster .
Tapinoma Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 4tli ser. , yol .
xvii .
, p. 447 ( 1876 ) .
Worker .
Length If line .
Head and thorax reddish brown , abdomen dark brown ; eves black ; mandibles and antennae pale testaceous .
Thorax rounded anteriorly , slightly narrowed posteriorly , with the metathorax obliquely truncate ; the legs , petiole , and squama , pale testaceous , the latter rounded above .
Abdomen smooth , shining , and impunctate .
Coll , by Gulliver .
20 specimens taken .
Tapinoma fragile .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , vol. xvii .
, p. 447 ( 1876 ) .
Worker .
Length 1 line .
Head brown , smooth , and shining ; the eyes black ; mandibles white and pellucid , antennae also white .
Thorax pale brown , the sides and metathorax darker brown ; the prothorax rounded in front ; the meta-thorax oblique and concave ; the legs , petiole , and squama , pale testaceous , nearly white .
Abdomen brown , smooth , and shining , palest at the base .
Coll , by Gulliver : Three specimens taken .
Found under bark ; very like the preceding species , but smaller ; the legs and antennae being pellucid .
Myrmicidse , Smith .
Monomorium , Mayr .
Monomorium Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , vol. xvii .
, 447 ( 1876 ) .
Female .
Length If line .
Head and abdomen dark fusco-ferruginous .
The clypeus , mandibles , and antennae flavo-testaceous ; ocelli distinct , with an impressed line in front of the anterior one , extending to the insertion of the antennae ; the apex of the scape and the club of the flagellum slightly rufo-fuscous .
Thorax narrower than the head and one-third longer ; the protliorax rounded in front , the sides nearly parallel , slightly narrowed towards the metathorax ; the legs pale testaceous , the femora rufo-testaceous ; the tarsi colourless and pellucid ; the thorax testaceous , as well as the nodes of the abdomen .
Abdomen oblong-ovate , as long as the head and thorax .
Male .
Length If line .
Dark fusco-ferruginous ; mandibles and antennae rufo-testaceous ; ocelli prominent , with a deeply impressed line in front of the anterior one .
Thorax oblong , narrowed posteriorly ; the wings colourless hyaline ; legs white , with the femora slightly fuscous in the middle .
Abdomen oblong-ovate , smooth , and shining .
Nine specimens found under bark .
Coll , by Gulliver .
Monomorium elongatum .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , vol. vii .
, p. 448 ( 1876 ) .
Female .
Length 2 lines .
Reddish brown ; head oblong , slightly narrowed behind the eyes , truncate posteriorly ; ocelli glassy , the anterior one placed in a deep fossulet ; mandibles and antennae pale rufo-testaceous .
Thorax oblong , narrowed behind ; the metathorax truncate ; legs pale rufo-testaceous , the femora slightly fuscous .
Abdomen oblong-ovate , smooth , and shining , with a thin scattered pubescence .
Worker .
Length 1 line .
Reddish brown , shining , with the mandibles , antennge , and legs pale testaceous ; the head oblong , the sides nearly parallel , truncate behind , with the angles rounded .
Thorax strangulated a little beyond the middle ; the metathorax without spines .
Abdomen ovate , smooth , and shining .
Fifty-three specimens collected by Gulliver .
scoLinx\#174 ; .
Scolia , Fabr .
Scolia rufa , St. Fargeau .
Male .
Length 7 ilines .
Black , the pubescence fulvo-ferruginous ; the face densely pubescent ; the clypeus and mandibles yellow , the former with a large triangular black macula in the middle , the latter rufo-piceous at then apex and narrowly so on their lower margin ; the head pubescent behind .
Thorax pubescent , the metathorax densely so ; wings fusco-hyaline , the nervures black , slightly iridescent ; the anterior legs , with the tips of the femora above , also the tibiae and tarsi above , yellow ; the tips of the joints of the tarsi black ; the intermediate and posterior tibiae yellow above , their tarsi entirely so , with the tips of the joints black ; all the calcaria pale testaceous .
Abdomen with broad yellow fasciae , the fasciae emarginate in the middle and at the sides ; the apical segment black , smooth , and shining , with a few strong punctures at the base , the rest of the abdomen with shallow punctures ; beneath , the segments have narrow yellow apical marginal fasciae , and are fringed with fulvous pubescence .
Two specimens .
The female only of this species was known , until Mr. Gulliver took both sexes .
Sphegidse .
Felopceus , Latreille .
F dopants co Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , vol. vii " p. 449 ( 1876 ) .
Male .
Length 5-6^ lines .
Head and thorax blue ; abdomen and legs blue HYMENOPTERA.\#151 ; FREDERICK SMITH .
black .
The face with silvery pubescence ; on the cheeks a thin griseous pubescence .
The mesothorax evenly punctured and convex , with a central impressed longitudinal line , without any other trace of longitudinal channels ; rather strongly but not very closely punctured , on the disk a few transverse irregular carinse ; wings subliyaline , with their apical margins clouded ; the thorax has a thin sparing griseous pubescence ; the apex of the metathorax with bright silvery pubescence ; the tibiae with the calcaria black , ( Coll , by Slater .
) Three specimens obtained , which differ so much from the males of all the blue species of the genus , in having the thorax very convex , that the male is described as that of a new species : the capture of the other sex will probably prove the correctness of doing so .
Apidse .
Megachile rufivent Guer .
A single specimen taken by Mr. Slater .
Megachile lan , Fabr .
A single specimen taken by Mr. Gulliver .
Apis unicolor , Latr .
Thirty-two specimens taken by Mr. Gulliver .
Vespidae .
Folistes hebrceus , Linn. Seven examples taken by Mr. Gulliver .
Ophionidse .
Ophion rufus , Brulle .
Two specimens taken by Mr. Gulliver .
Faniscus perforator , Smith , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 4th ser. , vol. vii .
, p. 449 .
Female .
Length 6 lines .
Bufo-ferruginous ; the face and scape of the antennae in front , yellow ; the space between the ocelli black .
Thorax : the sides , the sutures on the mesothorax , and the scutellum paler than the disk ; wdngs hyaline and iridescent , the stigma and nervures rufous ; the legs and abdomen rufous , the latter slightly fuscous at the apex .
A single example taken by Mr. Slater .
This species is like F. melanopus , Brulle , but it differs in having all the tarsi rufous , as well as the nervures of the wings : in P. melanopus they are black .
Evanidse .
Evania laevig , Latr .
A single specimen taken by Mr. Gulliver ; the genus Evania being parasitic on Blattidae , some of the species are conveyed with merchandise to all parts of the world .
E. laevigata is one of the species that has a wide distribution , and is found occasionally in warehouses in the docks in London .
DIPTERA .
Tabanidae .
Tabanus sequens , Walker .
A single specimen taken by Mr. Gulliver .
Muscidae .
Eollenia basalis , Macquar .
Smith , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , p. 449 ( 1876 ) .
Length 4 lines .
Hark blue , with shades of green on the disk of the thorax ; the face and cheeks luteous , and clothed with short , dense yellow puhescence ; at the end of the facialia a black bristle on each side ; antennae in deep facial grooves , slightly yellow at the base , third joint long , arista longly plumose ; palpi luteous , with black bristles ; frons black and more than a quarter the width of the head ; wings hyaline with their base fuscous ; the transverse vein at the end of the wing nearly rectangular below and much curved above , leaving the cell open ; the lower transverse vein very oblique .
Abdomen with a little short luteous pubescence at the apex and also beneath ; alulae dirty white .
A single example taken by Mr. Slater .
Sarcopliaga mutata .
Smith , Ann. and Mag. Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , p. 450 ( 1876 ) .
Eemale .
Length 5 lines .
Black , thinly clothed with black hairs and bristles ; the face and cheeks with a covering of bright silvery pile ; the margin of the facial groove fringed anteriorly with short black bristles ; eyes dark reddish brown ; the base of the antennae black , the third joint tawny and with a long plumose black bristle at the base ; frons with a broad black stripe running from the antennae to the vertex .
Thorax tawny above and with three black longitudinal stripes ; the lateral margins set with black curved bristles ; legs black and with a number of black bristles ; wings sub-hyaline , the veins black ; the tranverse vein at the end of the DIPTERA AND NETJROPTERA.\#151 ; -\#187 ; FREDERICK SMITH .
wing straight above , oblique and curved below ; the lower transverse vein evenly-waved ; the alulae white .
Abdomen tessellated with black and silvery pile , covered with short black hairs , and having a few long black bristles at the apex ; there are also four long black bristles on the hinder margin of the scutellum .
Two examples taken by Mr. Gulliver .
Sapromyzasquallida .
Smith , Ann. and Mag. Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , vol. vii .
, p. 950 ( 1876 ) .
Male .
, Length 2 lines .
Pale brown ; frons yellow , with a dark brown central line ; two long bristles at the hind corner of the eye , and two between them and the antennae ; face pale yellow ; peristoma with a row of small bristles .
Antennae yellowish , brown above , the second joint with long black bristles beneath , at the end ; arista black , yellow at the base and plumose ; the palpi yellow .
Thorax with obscure pale ( almost white ) longitudinal stripes ; the scutellum pale brown , its outer margin and a central longitudinal pale yellow line .
Legs yellow ; the tibiae have all a preapical bristle ; the anterior femora with scattered bristles , the intermediate pair with a row of bristles in front near the tip .
Wings faintly yellowish , middle transverse veinlets darkened , and yellowish spots at the tip of the lower transverse veinlet and at the tips of the second and third veins , and also on those veins , some distance from the tips , and on the second vein opposite where the first vein ends in the costa .
Abdomen brownish yellow and thinly sprinkled with short black hairs .
A single example taken by Mr. Gulliver .
NEUROPTERA .
Name of Species found in Rodriguez .
Hitherto found in Rodriguez only .
Previously obtained elsewhere .
Mauritius and Bourbon .
Madagas car .
Other Localities .
Terms ?
Myrmelion obscurus ... Libellula mauritiana Anax mauritianus ... Agrion ferrugineum ... X X X X X Libellulidse .
Libellula , Pambur .
Pour specimens obtained by Mr. Gulliver .
Anax mauritianus , Fambur .
Four specimens taken by Mr. Gulliver .
Agrionidse .
Agrion ferrugineum , Fambur .
A single example only obtained by Mr. Gulliver .
Terms , sp. One hundred and seven specimens of a small species of Termite were in the collection , they were snow white , but only workers were obtained ; in the absence of the females and males it was impossible to draw up distinctive specific characters .
Obtained by Mr. Gulliver .
Myrmelion obscuru Fambur .
A single specimen only obtained by Mr. Gulliver .

