I. " Note on Mr. Merrifield 's New Method of calculating the Statical Stability of a Ship .
" By W. J. MACQUORN RANKINE , C.E , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received February 22 , 1867 .
On the 24th of January , 1867 , a paper was read to the Royal Society by Mr. C. W. Merrifield , F.R.S. , Principal of the Royal School of Naval Architecture , showing how , by determining the radii of curvature of the locus of the centre of buoyancy or " metacentric involute " of a ship in an upright position and at one given angle of inclination , a formula may be obtained for calculating to a close approximation her moment of stability at any given angle of inclination , on the assumption that the metacentric involute can be sufficiently represented by a conic .
It has occurred to me that the latter part of the calculation in Mr. Merrifield 's method might be simplified by assuming for the approximate form of the metacentric involute , not a conic , but the involute of the involute of a circle ; the locus of its centres of curvature , or " metacentric evolute , " being assumed to be the involute of a circle .
The involute of the involute of a circle is distinguished by the following property .
Let r be the radius of the circle , p , that radius of curvature of the involute of the involute which touches the involute at its cusp , and p another radius of curvature of the same curve making the angle 0 with the radius p0 ; then ro02 P=P+ - ?
... ... . .
( 1 ) Having found , then , the radii of curvature of the metacentric involute in an upright position , and at a given angle of inclination 0 , let po and p , be those radii respectively ; then make 2(p , -p ' , ) 022 This will be the radius of the required circle ; and its positive or negative sign will show whether it is to be laid off downwards or upwards from the metacentre .
For any given angle of inclination the radius of curvature of the metacentric involute will be given by equation ( 1 ) , which may also be put in the following form : 02 P Po + ( P1-Po ) 0 ' ... ... .
( 3 ) Let a be the depth of the ship 's centre of gravity below her metacentre , and p the perpendicular let fall from that centre of gravity upon the radius of curvature of the metacentric involute at any given angle of inclination 0 ; then ( == ( --r ) sin 0+r0 ; ... ... .
( 4 ) and the moment of stability is px displacement ... ... ... ( 5 ) It is obvious that the condition of isochronous rolling is that --r =0 ; that is to say , that the centre of the circle which is the evolute of the mnetacentric evolute shall coincide with the ship 's centre of gravity ; a proposition already demonstrated by me in a paper read to the Institution of Naval Architects in 1864 , and published in their Transactions , vol. v. p. 35 .
[ Postscript.-Received March 1 , 1867 .
] Since the above was written , I have been informed by Mr. IMerrifield , to whom I had communicated my proposed modification of his method , that it has been tried at the Royal School of Naval Architecture and found to answer well .

