LXXVIII .
Part of a Letter from Mr. John Parker , an English Painter at Rome , to his Father at London , concerning the late Eruption of Mount Vesuvius : Communicated by Mr. Henry Baker , F. R. S. Honoured Sir , Rome , Dec. 20 , 175I .
I HAD the satisfaction , whilst at Naples , to see the eruption of Mount Vesuvius , which was very extraordinary ; but the want of room here hinders me the giving you any very particular account .
It lasted about 25 days in all , and broke out of the side of the mountain ; preceded by an earthquake , felt all over Naples at the time of the eruption .
The mountain in the middle of the crater or cup , which formerly threw out the stones , sunk down , with about a third of the bottom of the said cup .
The breadth of the matter it threw out is in some places half a mile over , in almost the least part 60 feet ; and has filled a valley , into which it ran , that might be about 60 feet deep , and raised a mountain in the same place , of matter and ashes , about 50 feet high ; and its whole length , from the mouth to where it stopped , is about 5 miles ; but it did not arrive at the sea by near five miles .
The matter , which is here called lava , seems to be composed of iron , antimony , sulphur , and salts , and is not always of the same colour , taste , &amp;c. in every place .
The thing I can compare it to most , is the large cinders thrown out of your great iron works , but covered over in many places with the above salts and sulphur .
Whilst the lava run red-hot , I saw a man throw a mass Read May 28 , mass of the cool lava from an height upon it , which , far from sinking into it , rebounded like a ball .
Its motion was as flow as the common walk of a man .
It broke out in five different places .
I walked on it for about a mile , whilst near three feet of the top were cooled ; but for many feet underneath as red to the sight as the furnace of a glass-house .
It covered and burnt up trees , houses , &amp;c. in short all it sound in its way .
From , SIR , Your dutiful son ,

