On Cystic Oxide , a new species of Urinary Calculus .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read July 5 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 223 .
] The calculus , which is the subject of the present essay , is the only new species which the author has had an opportunity of observing , in addition to five which he described to the Society in the year 1797 .
It appears to be comparatively very rare , as he has hitherto seen only two specimens of it ; one in the possession of Dr. Reeve of Norwich , and the other in a collection of calculi belonging to Guy 's Hospital .
They are in appearance more like the triple phosphate of magnesia than any other calculus , but are more compact and semitransparent , with a slight tinge of yellow .
By destructive distillation they yield foetid carbonate of ammonia , with a heavy animal oil , and the residuum is a black spongy coal .
They are not dissolved by water , by alcohol , by acetic acid , by tartaric acid , but are dissolved by most other acids , by muriatic , nitric , sulphuric , phosphoric or oxalic acids .
They are dissolved also by most alkaline menstrua , as by solutions of pure potash or soda , pure ammonia , or by lime-water , and even by the fully saturated carbonates of potash or of soda , but not by carbonate of ammonia .
It is remarked also , that the solution formed with nitric acid does not yield oxalic acid , as the uric acid does when similarly treated , and does not turn red in drying , but becomes brown , and ultimately black , when much heated .
Since this substance yields carbonate of ammonia by distillation , it evidently contains oxygen , but it does not appear acid , as it does not redden litmus , but.has rather the properties of an oxide , inasmuch as it unites readily with either acid or alkaline substances ; and the author is induced to give it the name of cystic oxide , because the only calculi hitherto observed have been taken from the bladder .
the author takes this opportunity of correcting an inaccuracy or two in his former communication on this subject ; and he also adds some observations respecting the different quantities of uric acid voided by birds living upon different kinds of food , not being produced by those that live entirely upon fish .

