III .
" On The Stereomonoscope , a new Instrument by which an apparently Single Picture produces the Stereoscopic Illusion .
" By A. CLAUDET , Esq. , F.R.S. Received March 10 , 1858 .
In a former paper " On the Phenomenon of Relief of the Image formed on the ground glass of the Camera Obscura , " which I communicated to the Royal Society on the 8th of May 1856 , after having investigated the cause of that extraordinary fact and tried to explain it , I found that the images produced separately by the various points of the whole aperture of an object-glass are visible only when the refracted rays are falling on the ground glass in a line nearly coinciding with the optic axes ; so that when both eyes are equally distant from the centre of the ground glass , each eye perceives only the image refracted in an oblique direction on that surface from the opposite side of the object-glass .
Consequently each side of an object-glass , in proportion to its aperture , giving a different perspective of a solid placed before it , the result is an illusion of relief as conspicuous as when looking naturally at the objects themselves .
From the consideration of these singular facts , unnoticed before , I was led to think that it would be possible to construct a new Stereoscope , in which looking with both eyes at once on a ground glass at the point of coalescence of the two images of a stereoscopic slide , each refracted by a separate lens , we could see it on that surface in the same relief which is produced by the common stereoscope .
This instrument , as may be perceived at once , is nothing more than an ordinary camera obscura supplied with two lenses , each mounted on a sliding frame in order to be able to give them , according to the focal distance , the horizontal separation necessary for producing on the ground glass the coalescence of the images of the two sides of a slide placed before the camera .
The slide itself being cut in two parts , the two images can also , moving in a groove , be separated in a horizontal direction , until they are sufficiently apart to be refracted on the ground glass by the two lenses in the most oblique direction consistent with the production of a well-defined image ; for it is to the increased degree of obliquity of the refracted rays in falling on the ground glass that is due the more effective extinction or evanescence of the image for the eye whose axis consequently deviates in a greater degree from the line of refraction .
By the same principles which produce the phenomenon of relief of the image formed on the ground glass of the camera obscura , the right picture of the slide , being obliquely refracted on the ground glass by the right lens in a line coinciding with the axis of the left eye , is visible only to that eye ; and the left picture , being refracted obliquely by the left lens in an opposite direction coinciding with the right eye , is only visible to that eye .
Consequently each eye seeing only one image , and that image having its own perspective , the optic axes have to converge more or less according to the angular separation of the similar points of the two coincident images ; and by the different degrees of convergence producing single vision of these various similar points , we have the sensation of the comparative distances of the objects represented on the ground glass .
Before having constructed this new stereoscope and tried its effect , it would have been hasty on my part to pretend that its success was certain , and for this reason I took care in my former paper to propose it as a mere speculative idea suggested by the phenomenon I had discovered , without vouching for the result .
Indeed it was not long before I had to congratulate myself on my caution , when I found that , the truth of my experiments being questioned and the deductions from these experiments denied , my proposed stereoscope was declared impossible , as being founded on principles completely at variance with the laws of optics .
However , these remarks did not shake my conviction , and after the usual difficulties , I have now the satisfaction of being able to prove that I was perfectly right , and that I had not been led astray by any erroneous notion in my analytic and synthetic deductions .
I have constructed the instrument which I propose to call the Stereomonoscope , as it exhibits in perfect relief a picture which appears single on the ground glass of the new instrument , and as single as the image of the camera obscura has always been supposed to be .
The instrument , in its present rough state , is undoubtedly very imperfect and susceptible of many improvements which time and experience will suggest .
I present it as the result of a first attempt , hoping that it will be found curious as illustrating a new and interesting scientific fact and producing an effect quite unexpected in optics .

