52 Prof. L. Hill .
[ Jail .
Wardle ( T. ) On the Relation of Design to such Craft Teaching as may he undertaken by Technical Schools .
4to .
Manchester 1893 .
The Author .
Photogravure Portrait of Professor Michael Foster , Sec. R.S. , after a painting by H. Herkomer , R.A. The Subscribers to the Foster Portrait Fund , Trinity College , Cambridge .
January 25 , 1894 .
Sir JOHN EYANS , E.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Vice-President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Intra-cranial Pressure .
Preliminary Note .
" By Leonard Hill , M.B. , Assistant Professor of Physiology , University College , London .
Communicated by Professor Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received November 16,1893 .
( From the Physiological Laboratories of Oxford and University College .
) My purpose in the following note is to submit to the Royal Society the results of experiments , made during the past year , relating to the " intra-cranial pressure " ( i.e. , the pressure to which the brain is normally exposed in the cranial cavity ) , and the changes which can be produced in it by alterations of the form and diminution of the capacity of the cranial cavity . .
The experiments were undertaken at the suggestion of Professor Burdon Sanderson , and have been carried out with his help and criticism .
The animals employed were cats or dogs .
Ether , chloroform , and * morphia were used as anaesthetics .
Methods of Research .
Methods of Producing Alterations of Pressure within the Subdural Space.\#151 ; \#187 ; .
The skull is trephined in the parietal region , the dura mater freely divided , the trephine hole " wormed " with an ordinary 1894 .
] On Infra Cranial Pressure .
53 mechanic 's tap , and a brass tube of about 2 inches in length screwed into the hole .
This tube is connected with a burette containing salt solution at the temperature of the animal .
A clip is interposed between the burette and the brass tube , and the burette connected with a pressure apparatus . .
By this method salt solution can be driven into the subdural space in measured amounts and at varying rates .
/ 3 .
If , before introducing the brass tube , a bag of very thin india-rubber is tied on to the end of it ( the arrangement being otherwise the same ) , measured amounts of salt solution can be repeatedly introduced or withdrawn from the bag within the subdural space .
2 .
Measurement of the Normal Intra-cranial Pressure or Cerebral Tension.\#151 ; x. A trephine hole is made , " wormed , " and filled with warm salt solution .
A piece of brass tube is screwed in , over the end of which a membrane of very thin india-rubber has been tied .
The brass tube is connected with the intervention of a piece of fine-bored glass tubing with a -piece , one branch of which leads to a pressure bottle , the other to a mercurial manometer .
The apparatus is completely filled with water , excepting that a bubble of air is introduced within the glass tube so as to act as an index .
The normal position of the air index is marked on the glass tube before the apparatus is screwed into the trephine hole .
On screwing the apparatus in , the air index , which is at first forced out , is brought back again to the normal position by raising the pressure bottle .
The manometer records the normal intra-cranial pressure .
fi .
A trephine hole is made and " wormed , " and the dura matter is then freely divided .
The measuring apparatus is filled with 0*6 per cent , salt solution , instead of water , and an air index is introduced within the glass tubing .
No membrane is placed upon the end of the brass tube , so that when the tube is screwed in its cavity freely communicates with the subdural space .
* The pressure bottle is now raised till the air index begins to move inwards .
The manometer records the pressure which is necessary to balance the normal intra-cranial pressure .
Any excess drives salt solution into the subdural space .
3 .
Measurement of the Variations of Intra-cranial Pressure produced by the above Methods ( 1 \#171 ; and / 3).\#151 ; With the measuring apparatus ( 2 \#171 ; ) the variations can be accurately measured and recorded graphically .
For when by increase of intra-cranial pressure the air index is displaced outwards it can be brought back again to its initial position by raising the pressure Ibottle to the required amount , and when by decrease of intra-cranial .pressure the air index is sucked inwards it can , , in like manner , be brought back again to the mark by lowering the pressure bottle ; In 54 Prof. L. Hill .
[ Jan. 25 , either case , the pressure required , as indicated by the mercurial manometer , is the intra-cranial pressure at the time .
4 .
Methods of obtaining Records of the Cerebral Venous Pressure.\#151 ; The superior longitudinal sinus , with its tributaries , in the dog opens into a large venous cavity within the occipital protuberance ; the transverse sinuses lying within the bony tentorium cerebelli lead out of this cavity .
Part of the blood finds its exit by the post-glenoid foramen , and reaches the external jugular vein , but a very large portion passes into the large sinuses which run down the vertebral canal .
The methods are as follows:\#151 ; a. A hole is drilled into the venous cavity within the occipital protuberance .
Into the hole a tube is fixed , filled with sodium sulphate solution .
The tube is connected with a water manometer .
ft. The skull is opened over the occipital protuberance , and a venous cannula passed into the superior longitudinal sinus against the direction* of the blood flow .
The cannula is connected with a water manometer .
This method gives the venous pressure with obstructed flow .
In either of these methods the manometer can be connected with a light and delicate tanibour ; and the venous pressure recorded .
Records of the blood pressure in the carotid artery , and of the respiration , were taken simultaneously with the records of intracranial pressure .
By the method of " worming " the trephine holes before screwing in the brass tubes the connexions were made ( as tested ) absolutely air tight .
The delicacy of the measuring apparatus was tested on an artificial scheme , and found to be perfect .
Results .
1 .
The normal intra-cranial pressure scarcely ever exceeds 10 mm. Hg .
( Method 2 \lt ; * and ft. ) 2 .
The normal cerebral venous pressure in the dog is equivalent to 100\#151 ; 120 mm. water .
( Method 4 \lt ; * .
) 3 .
The pressure in the superior longitudinal sinus with the flow of blood obstructed rises to double or more the normal cerebral venous pressure .
( Method 4 ft. ) 4 .
The air index in the measuring apparatus exhibits perfectly the cardiac and respiratory undulations of the intra-cranial pressure .
( Methods 2 and 3 .
) 5 .
The water manometer in connexion with the venous cavity in the occipital protuberance , or with the longitudinal sinus , exhibits the cardiac pulsations and large respiratory undulations .
( Method 4 a and # .
) On Intra-Cranial Pressure .
1894 .
] 6 .
Salt solution ( 0 6 per cent. ) can be slowly driven into the subdural space at the rate of about 1 c.c. a minute , without raising the intra-cranial pressure or producing any physiological effects .
As much as 20 c.c. has thus been driven in during one experiment .
( Method 1 x. ) 7 .
Salt solution can be driven through from the parietal hole to a hole in the lumbar region of the spinal column .
The whole of the subdural space can thus be syringed through .
8 .
Salt solution cannot be driven from a hole in the lumbar region out of a hole in the parietal region .
The brain floats up and closes the parietal hole as a valve .
9 .
Salt solution , if driven in quickly with a higher pressure , produces a momentary rise of intra-cranial pressure and momentary physiological effects .
These disappear very rapidly as the solution is absorbed .
10 .
On introducing 0'5 c.c. of salt solution within a bag in the subdural space of a cat ( Method 1 / 3 ) , no rise of intra-cranial pressure occurs , and no physiological effects are produced .
11 .
The introduction of more than 0 5 c.c. produces a lasting rise of intra-cranial pressure and physiological effects .
These are : ( 1 ) slowing to stopping of respiration ; ( 2 ) rise of blood pressure and slowing of the heart ; ( 3 ) dilatation , or extreme constriction , of the pupil , and sometimes nystagmus .
12 .
The cat may become habituated to the smaller degrees of heightened intra-cranial pressure , and the physiological effects pass off .
13 .
Greater amounts than 1 c.c. cause an enormous and maintained rise of arterial pressure , with acceleration of the heart , inspiratory gasps at long intervals , followed by fall of arterial pressure and death .
14 .
0 5 c.c. is the largest amount of displacement which can be perfectly compensated for in the cat , i.e. , this is the reduction of the cranial capacity which can be made np for by escape of cerebrospinal fluid .
15 .
The brain of the cat of ordinary size , measured up to the level of the calamus scriptorius , equals in volume 26 c.c. 16 .
The amount of compensation is reduced to nothing on repeating the experiment a second time , and the effects which follow the introduction of the same quantity of salt solution into the bag are much more marked .
17 .
In the dog of the fox-terrier size the amount of compensation is 1'5 c.c. 18 .
The brain of the ordinary fox-terrier , on an average , equals 64 c.c. in volume .
19 .
The introduction of more than 1'5 c.c. in the dog produces 56 On Tatra- Cranial Pressure[Jan .
25 , a lasting rise of intra-cranial pressure and physiological effects .
These are the same as in the cat , except that there is no rise of blood pressure .
20 .
On cutting both vagi in the dog , the rise of blood pressure occurs as in the cat , and may reach enormous amounts .
' 21 .
The compensation is reduced to nothing in the deg on repeating the experiment a second time , and the effects are much more severe .
22 .
The physiological effects can be immediately removed by emptying the bag , and the pressure in the intra-cranial cavity recovers its old standard .
23 .
If the displacement caused by the bag is large , and maintained for a considerable time , there may be no. relief and no expansion of the brain on emptying the bag .
24 .
Trephine holes made in various parts of the cranium and vertebral column afford no relief to the effects produced by the bag .
25 .
No fluid is to be found within the subdural space after the " bag experiment .
" The surface of the brain and the cavity of the skull are quite dry .
26 .
After the " bag experiment , " salt solution ( Method 1 ) can no longer be absorbed , and can no longer be driven through to a hole in the lumbar region , but acts in the same way and produces the same effects as the bag .
27 .
Marked physiological effects occur in the cat when the intra--cranial pressure is raised 10 mm. Hg above the normal .
The measure* ment is taken over the medulla oblongata .
28 .
The venous pressure in the cavity of the occipital protuberance , falls to zero when the " bag " is distended over the parietal region , t.6.f the entrance of blood is obstructed j the exit by the bony transverse sinuses remains open .
( Method 4 \#171 ; .
) 29 .
The venous pressure in the superior longitudinal sinus rises when the " bag " is distended , i.e. the exit is obstructed by the cannula , and blood is forced out of the tributary veins into the sinus .
( Method 4 / 3 .
) 30 .
The normal venous pressure in each case at once returns when the bag is emptied .
Conclusion .
November 18 , 1893 .
The capacity of the intra-cranial cavity can be diminished by the introduction of a foreign body into the subdural space .
The first effect of the diminution is to expel the cerebro-spinal fluid .
After its disappearance , further diminution of the space can only take place by equal diminution of the volume of the intra-cranial blood vessels , particularly of the veins and capillaries .
The restriction or arrest of the cerebral circulation thus produced is the efficient cause of the physio1394 .
] Researches into the Functions of the Cerebellum .
57 logical disturbance observed after diminution of the iutra-cranial cavity .
In the animals experimented on , any considerable increase of the intra-cranial pressure above the normal ( about 10 mm. mercury ) interferes with or arrests the cerebral circulation .
A further Result .
November 27 , 1893 .
On driving salt solution coloured with methyl blue into the subdural space at the rate of 1 c.c. a minute , the urine which was collected from one ureter became of a blue colour in from 15 to 30 minutes .
On.post-mortem examination , the upper portion of the first lymph gland in the cervical chain was found to be coloured blue ; in the central nervous system the blue colour was found limited to the cerebral hemisphere on the side of injection , the base of the brain , and the cervical region of the cord .
Conclusion\#151 ; The blood vessels form the pathway of absorption of fluid from the subdural space .
The expenses of the above research have been partly defrayed by a grant from the British Medical Association .
II .
" Experimental Researches into the Functions of the Cerebellum .
" By J. S. Risien Russell , M.D. , M.R.C.P. , Assistant Physician to the Metropolitan Hospital .
Communicated by Professor Victor Horsley , F.R.S. Received December 14 , 1893 .
( From the Pathological Laboratory of University College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) The views that have been expressed as to the probable functions of the cerebellum are briefly alluded to , and the results obtained by previous investigators , as the direct outcome of experimentation , are detailed at greater length .
The objects of the present research were to determine : 1 .
Whether each lateral half of the cerebellum is capable of acting independently , or whether it is necessary for the connexions between the two halves to be intact , in order that the functions of the organ should be properly performed .
2 .
If impulses pass from one side of the organ to the other before they are transmitted to the cerebrum or spinal cord .
3 .
What is the nature of the impairment of movement which results when portions of the organ are removed .
4 .
What relationship exists between one half of the cerebellum

