275 1894 .
] On the Elasticity of the Living , S , -c .
No fibres get into the opposite pyramid by way of the corpus callosum .
Stimulation with absinthe shows that the bulbo-spinal centres ( including the cerebellum ) alone , can produce a series of clonic fits , differing from the cortical in the much slower rhythm of the contractions .
But from the complete section of the cord experiments it seems improbable that the cord alone can be excited by .absinthe .
Immediate hemisection of the cord prevents the absinthe fit on that side ; but after recovery a modified fit results upon the side of the lesion , in spite of the fact that the direct lateral and crossed pyramidal tracts are completely degenerate , as well as the internuncial fibres in the anterior and lateral columns .
When one hemisphere is removed or a complete hemisection made in the quadrigeminal region , there are bilateral fits , in spite of the fact that one pyramidal system is completely degenerate .
The fits are modified upon the side opposite to the lesion , the clonus being less marked , and the first fit being absent or very small .
If , in the last two cases , a hemisection is made upon the side of the degenerate pyramid , it instantly arrests the fits upon that side , the section interrupting the sound direct pyramidal tract .
I therefore conclude that the maximal effect'of absinthe is produced when the motor area is present , and that the impulses generated there are distributed by the pyramidal system in the way described , the maximal effect crossing to the opposite side , the question of unilaterality or bilaterality being one of degree as shown by the differences between the initial and subsequent fits , and as borne out by the relative sizes of the crossed and uncrossed tracts .
The epilepsy dne to absinthe indicates that there are probably very many epileptiform attacks in man which are toxic .
5 VI .
" A Research into the Elasticity of the Living Brain , and the Conditions governing the Recovery of the Brain after Compression for Short Periods .
" By A. G. Levy , M.B. ( London ) .
Communicated by Professor Horsley , F.R.S. Received February 21 , 1894 .
( From the Laboratory of the Pathological Department of University College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) ( Towards the expenses of this research a grant was made by the British Medical Association at the recommendation of the .
Scientific ; Grants Committee .
) In view of the great frequency of compression of the brain as a : pathological condition , it seems very advisable to attempt to obtain Mr , A. G. Levy .
A Research inta the [ Mar. 15 , some knowledge of the elementary factors conditioning the physical changes in the brain substance due to mechanical pressure .
Grashey* has already definitely proved that the coefficient of compressibility of the dead brain is slightly less than that of water , which is equivalent to saying that under any ordinary pathological conditions the brain tissue is incompressible .
At the suggestion of Professor V. Horsley , who devised an apparatus for the purpose , and to whom I am indebted for advice and suggestions , an attempt was made to determine the elasticity of the living brain , i.e. , of the brain mass with its full complement of circulating blood and lymph , and further to test the truth of the generally accepted view that the elasticity of the brain is proportional to the blood pressure .
The brain was experimented upon situ , the influence of the cerebro-spinal fluid being excluded by the mere fact of the skull being opened and the membranes partially reflected , thus releasing the fluid from all tension .
Thus we arrive at the properties of the brain mass itself as it rests upon its osseous enclosure .
There were , in the first place , considered the results of experiments performed upon freshly-exposed brains , the blood pressure being at its normal height , in order to arrive at some conclusion as to the normal elasticity of the brain .
The downward movement of a plunger was measured after a given interval* of time , and the extent of this is termed the " excursion .
" The recovery of the brain surface , to the extent of which the term " recoil " is applied , was measured until it failed to perceptibly develop further .
The general character of the excursion is that of a rapid plunge downwards taking place within the space of one or two seconds , followed by a much more gradual compression .
Its extent varies within a considerable range in different animals ; thus a weight of 50 grams applied for one minute produces an excursion which varies in different dogs from 4'5 to 7'3 mm. It also varies notably with the weight employed .
There is no obvious relation between the depth of excursion and the blood pressure .
' For convenience of expression and of comparison the ratio of the excursion to the recoil is in the full paper expressed in the form of a fraction , and this ratio is termed the " proportionate recoil ; " the smaller this fraction the feebler the elastic reaction it denotes , and vice-versa .
A comparison of the ratios derived from experiments performed under like conditions upon different animals brings out the | striking approximation which they bear to one another , whatever the 1 length of the excursion and whatever the existing blood pressure may j be .
And such deviations from the average as the ratios present cannot be found to have any relation to variations in either excursion or blood \#166 ; * G-rashey , " Ueber Hirndruck und Hirncompression .
" * Allg .
Ztschr .
f. Psychiat .
, ' 1 Berlin , 1887 , vol. 43 .
1894 .
] Elasticity of the Living Sfc .
pressure .
A compression by a 50-gram weight for a period of from 39 seconds to one minute yields an average proportionate recoil of 4 .
A further comparison definitely shows that the longer the period of compression the less is the recoil ; thus with a compression of only two seconds the reaction is sometimes almost perfect , whereas a compression lasting six miuutes yields a ratio of 1/ 2'74 .
Heavier weights similarly damage the brain in a fashion prejudicial to its recovery .
A series of experiments were performed with a view to comparing the " elasticity " of the brain at the normal blood pressure with the " elasticity " of the same brain at an artificially lowered blood pressure .
The first method employed was that of producing a large fall of blood pressure by bleeding .
The results tended to confirm the impression that there exists no constant relation between brain elasticity and blood pressure .
This series is somewhat vitiated by the partial collapse of the cerebrum which ensues during the process of bleeding , and a second series was instituted , in which the blood pressure was lowered through the agency of amyl nitrite ; the brain at the moment of administration becoming flushed with blood , it has no tendency to * collapse .
Under the influence of this drug the cerebral vascular conditions are such that the " elasticity " is actually increased , thus conclusively demonstrating the non-dependence of the latter upon the central arterial pressure .
A further series of experiments were performed in view of the influence which venous pressure is believed to exert upon the cerebral circulation .
This object was carried out by exposing the accessible cranial veins and clamping them in succession , and by measuring the variation in the intra-cranial pressure induced by this means .
The results tended to show that the increase of intra-cranial pressure must be considerable to influence the " elasticity " in even a small degree .
Experiments performed upon brains which had undergone prolonged or severe compression showed that a considerable increase of arterial blood pressure is quite unable to restore the volume of the brain thus damaged , whereas an increase of venous pressure , obtained by asphyxiation , rapidly , and usually completely , brings this about .

