A Catalogue of Nebule and clusters of Stars in the Southern Hemisphere , observed at Paramatta in New South Wales , by James Dunlop , Esq. In a Letter addressed to Sir Thomas Makdougall Brisbane , Bart. K.C.B. late Governor of New South Wales .
Presented to the Royal Society by John Frederick William Herschel , Esq. Vice President .
Read December 20 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 113 .
] The observations , of which the results are here given , were made by Mr. Dunlop in the open air , with a 9-feet reflecting telescope , having the clear aperture of the large mirror 9 inches , and fitted up as a meridian telescope ; the position of which , and the index error , being ascertained by the passage of known stars .
The drawings which accompany the paper were made at the time of observation of the appearances of a great number of nebule and clusters , and particularly of the nebulae major and minor .
The paper contains a catalogue and description of 629 nebulae , arranged in the order of their south polar distance , and in zones for each degree in the order of their right ascension .
A few observations are subjoined , describing more particularly the appearance of the nebula minor , which , seen through the telescope , resembles one of the brighter portions of the milky way ; of the nebula major , which is brighter , more irregular , and composed of a great number of different parts ; and of the dark space on the east side of the cross , or the black cloud , as it is called , which is occasioned by the almost total absence of stars .
It is remarked by the author , that neither of the two nebulae , major and minor , are at present in the place assigned to them by La Caille .
He finds also that scarcely any nebulae exist in a high state of condensation , and very few even in a state of moderate condensation towards the centre .
Some have bright points in or near the centre , many of wnich may be stars ; but the greater number of the nebulwe appear only as condensations of the general nebulous matter into faint nebulw , of various forms and magnitudes , generally not well defined ; while many of the larger nebulous appearances are resolvable into stars of small magnitudes .
But whether nebulae are universally thus resolvable , is a question of which our instruments are yet incompetent to afford a direct solution , and in the discussion of which we have only analogy as our guide .

