]\gt ; The Relatvon between Wind Velocity at 1000 Metres Altitude and the Surface Pressure Distribution .
By E. GOLD , M.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Canbridge .
( Communicated by Dr. W. N. Shaw , F.R.S. Received February 25 , \mdash ; Read March 5 , 1908 .
) For the steady horizontal 1notion of ir along a path whose radius of curvature is , we may write directly the equation expressing the fact that the part of the centrifugal force arising from the motion of the wind is balanced by the effective gradient of pressure .
In the equation is atmospheric pressure , density , velocity of air , is latitude , and is the angular velocity of the earth about its axis .
If be negative , it is clear that and must have opposite signs : or , for motion in a path concave towards the higher pressure , the air must rotate in a clockwise direction , the well-known result for anticyclonic motion .
Further , the maximum numerical value of is and the corresponding maximum value for is .
Therefore , in anticyclonic regions there are limiting values which the gradient and the velocity callnot exceed .
This niting value of for latitude and miles is approximately 20 miles per hour .
At the surface of the earth , owing to friction and eddies , the mean direction of the motion of the ai .
is nearly always inclined to the isobars ; but over the sea the inclination is very much less , and it seemed probable that in the upper regions of the atmosphere , if the motion were steady , the air would in general move tangentially to the isobars , and its velocity would with that calculated from the equation given above .
The question , however , as to whether the pressure is likely to continue steady long enough for a condition in which the equation is applicable to supervene .
We can get an idea of the time that wonld elapse before air , starting from rest , would reach a state of steady motion , by considering the motion of a particle on the earth 's surface 1 ) under a constant force in a constant direction , corresponding to straight isobars ; ( 2 ) under a constant radial force corresponding to cyclorlic and anticyclonic conditions .
The particle would begin to move at right angles to the isobars in the Wind and Surface essure Distribution .
direction of the force , but as its velocity increased it would be deflected by the effect of the earth 's rotation until it moved perpendicularly to the force .
The equations of motion of a particle , refelTed to axes fixed relatively to he earth and having an origin on the sulface in latitude , are where the axis of is vertical and the axes of and ' are west and south xespeetively .
If there is no vertical motion we may write the first two equations and the form of the equations and the value of are unaltered by to other axes in the same plane .
Let us take the axis to be in the direction 'of the constant force .
Then whence , , if the particle start from rest .
The motion is therefore oscillatory , and the particle moves in a series of cycloidal-like curves , fig. 1 .
The times to the successive intersections with are , etc. For latitude FIG. 1 .
these are about 4 and 12 hours .
They are independent of .
If there is damping , the motion will be as in fig. 2 .
If the motion is resisted by a force proportional to the velocity , the path will be inclined to the -axis .
Fig. 3 gives the path for the particular case and for a period of time equal to , or 16 hours .
Mr. E. Gold .
Relation between Wind [ Feb. 25 , FIG. 2 .
FIG. 3 .
In the case of a constant radial force we have for the motion whence If the particle start the centre , and and we obtain .
The particle therefore describes a cardioid , but if there is damping the motion will come to be along the circle The time to reach the circle is , or about 8 hours for latitude These times are not large meteorologically , and we may therefore expect the relation between air velocity and pressure gradient to be that corresponding to steady motion so long as there are no irregularities to produce turbulent motion .
For application to wind velocities in the upper air we require to know the upper-air isobars .
If we have air in which the horizontal layers are isothermal , then from the equations it follows that 1908 .
] Velocity and the Surface Pressure bution .
We have , therefore , if p ) and are surface isobars and and the corresponding upper isobars , , so that Therefore the velocity calculated from the surface isobars will apply to the upper air , except for the factor .
For metres the effect of this factor is to diminish the velocity by about 2 per cent. If the conditions are not isothermal , but that the isotherms and sobars intersect at an angle , the upper isobars will have a different direction from the surface isobars , and the value of the upper gradient will also be changed .
The pressure at a height above , the point of intersection of , is , and above , the point of intersection of , is If we assume the vertical temperature gradient to be the same over all the region considered , will be the same for every element of the above integral , and we can put If these two pressures at height are equal , we must have , or In this case AB is the direction of the upper isobar and its inclination to the lower isobal is given by where and are the distances between the isotherms and isobars .
Substituting for and dividing out by , we get Mr. E. Gold .
between Wind [ Feb. Taking and for millimetre isobars and C. isotherms and putting metres and C. , say , we find To obtain the upper pressure gradient , we consider the upper isobars over and N. The difference of temperature between and is , say .
Therefore the upper pressure difference is The distance between these isobars and the upper gradient is consequently and the ratio is , which is , taking to be unity , namely , or In the special cases , or , the ratios are or , for metres .
If , which would represent a possible case , the increase or decrease would be about 18 per cent. For the rotation would in the same circumstances be about During the year 1905 a series of observations in the upper air was made at Berlin and Lindenberg , the time of the general 8 .
morning observations .
It was therefore possible to compare the wind velocities observed with those calculated from measurements of the gradient by the use of the formula at the of this paper , the motion being assumed tangential to the isobars .
For purposes of calculation the formula may be ritten where is the angular radius of the small circle , on the earth 's surface , 1908 .
] Velocity and thoe Pressure Distribution .
the path , is in metres per second , ' is the distance in kilometres between millimetre isobars , are the tenlperatul'e and pressure , and the corresponding values for air at C. and 760 mm. If the motion is lines , , and the values of for , are as follows if kilometres .
Latitude ' . .
, If represent the velocity when ) , we can most easily express the solutions of the equation for different values of , by as independent variables , Taking , as an example of the dependence on metres per second , we obtain the values for in metres per second in the case of cyclonic motion .
For anticyclonic motion the gradient corresponding to metres per second is above the maximum , and we take for two examples 30 metres per second .
The values of are then as follows for the cases:\mdash ; For \mdash ; 16 15 14 14 14 For \mdash ; \mdash ; \mdash ; 50 Where no value is inserted for , the gradient ondiner to the given value of is above the maximum for the corresponding value of To show the dependence on , we take , and put metres per second for cyclonic motion , metres per second for anticyclonic motion .
The following table gives the values of for different latitudes in the three cases:\mdash ; ' By the use of tables giving values of for different values of , P ) , and of for different values of , each observation at 1000 lnetres altitude was compared with the the deduced surface .
The temperature correction was ot applied .
The following table ives the lesult of the compnrisons:\mdash ; Mr. E. Gold .
Relation between Wind [ Feb. 25 , 1908 .
] Velocity the Pressurc The upper wind coincides in direction very nearly with the isobars at the surface , and the wind velocity observed rees well with that calculated from the pressure distribution .
The differences ftre not yreater than possible errors of observation , except in spring .
It is known that the upper wind always veers from the surface wind , and the numbers in Column 7 show that in 1905 the was eater in winter than in summer .
If the effect of the earth 's surface were same as if a frictional force opposed the motion , the relation between the wind and adient of pressure would be as above , except that the radiant would be the maximum gradient multiplied by the cosine of , the angle between the path and the isobars .
The velocity would be approximately , except in cases of considerable vature .
In the majority of the observations the curvature was small , and we should therefore expect the surface wind to be nearly , so that the numbers in Column 8 would be lmity .
This is far from being the case ; but the of the station of observation from Berlin to Lindenberg is accompanied by a corresponding change the ratio of the surface wind velocity to This that the effect of the surface , apart from the purely frictional effect , is to reduce the velocity in a given direction in a cons tant ratio depending on the locality , and that departures in the observed velocities from those corresponding to this ratio are to be associated with unsteady meteorological conditions .
The last column ives approximately the ratio of the volume of crossing the isobars at the surface to the volume at 1000 metres .
The ratio appears to be nearly constant ; the change in December is probably due to the exceptional conditions which prevailed during part of the month , when the air was considerably warmer at 1000 metres altitude than at the surface .
VOL. LXXX.\mdash ; A.

