]\gt ; 20 Mr. W. H. L. Russell on Linear Differential Equations .
[ Nov. IV .
" " On Linear Differential]quations .
By W. H. L. RUSSELL , F.R.S. Received October 1872 .
Iam desirous to conclude this series of papers with some remarks om the solutions of differential equations considered as transcendents .
I shall take the linear differential equation of the second order , which will be sufficient , as it will be seen at once that similar investigations apply generally .
Let We propose to investigate the of the convergence of this series .
The general term of the series is givsn by the equation As ( n ) increases without limit , this equation becomes or more simply , This may be written Now let converge , as ( n ) increases without limit , to a cert quantity , then will also converge toward the same quantity , and will be given by the equation Let be the roots of this equation , greatest root ; then the series be convergent if is in the limit less than unity , or if is less than .
For large values of ( x ) we must proceed as follows : Let Then , substituting in the differential equation , 1872 .
] Anniversary Jleeting .
increases ithout limit , this equation may be written or Let converge to certain quantity , then be given by the tion Let be the gl'eatest root of this equation ; then the series be convergent if is less than unity , or if be greater than It from my last paper that in certain cases a quantity of tho form be regarded a solution of a dffierential equation of the form here considered .
Hence we are able , by means of the principles in this paper , to represent , under these circumstances , by converging series when ( x ) does not exceed This method evidently admits of a great variety of applications .
No 1872 .
Sir AIRY , K.C.B. President , in the .
Abel , for the Auditors of the Treasurer 's on the part of the Society , reported that the total receipts during he past year , including a balance of .
cnrried from the precedmg amount to X4308 , and that the expenditure in the same period alnounts to a balance at the ukers of Os .
, and .
in the hands of the surer .
nks of the Society 11-ere voted to the Treasurer and Auditors .

