The following papers were read:1 .
&lt; " On Animal and Vegetable Fibre as originally composed of Twin Spiral Filaments , in which every other structure has its Origin ; a Note showing the confirmation by Agardh , in 1852 , of observations recorded in the Philosophical Transactions for 1842 .
" By Martin Barry , M.D. , F.P.S. , F.R.S.E. Received February 24 , 1853 .
After referring to the drawings to his paper on Fibre , published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1842 , and the opinions:entertained by physiologists regarding the peculiar views he advanced in that paper with reference to the original composition of organic fibre , the author states that , after the lapse of eleven years , these views have been fully confirmed , and in proof of this refers to a paper-"De cellula vegetabili fibrillis tenuissimiscontexta " ( Lundae , 1852 ) , by Agardh .
He further remarks , that his paper of 1842 contains a record of other observations made in a field beyond the region of Agardh 's researches ; observations which he thinks explain how it is that fibre forms the membrane of the cell , and , what he deems of more importance still , the mode of origin of fibre .
He refers generally to the drawings in that paper , from which , in connection with facts previously recorded in the Philosophical Transactions , he states that it appears-1 , that fibre has its origin in the so-called " cytoblast , " the outer part of which always passes into a ring or coil of fibre ; 2 , that when a cell is to arise , its primary membrane is formed out of this ring or coil of fibre ; 3 , that then the nucleolus of the " cytoblast " becomes the nucleus of the cell ; 4 , that the outer part of the nucleus of the cell also passes into a ring or coil of fibre , wherewith to form deposits such as the annular and spiral , or to weave the secondary membranes ; 5 , that the term " cytoblast " is unsuitable , as the body so called does not always become a cell ; 6 , that fibre is thus more universal as well as more primitive even than the cell , for fibre not only forms the cell , but it forms other structures without having first to form a cell ; 7 , that the prime mover in both the " cytoblast " and the nucleus is the nucleolus , which is the organ of absorption , assimilation , and secretion ; 8 , that the nucleolus is continually giving off its substance and continually renewing it , continually passing from the state of nucleolus into that of " cytoblast " or nucleus , -so that the " cytoblast " and the nucleus are each of them but the nucleolus enlarged ; 9 , that it is therefore the nucleolus enlarged that passes into fibre ; 10 , that the nucleolus always passes into fibre , and directly into no other form than that of fibre ; 11 , that thus the whole organism arises out of nucleoli , for fibre is but the nucleolus in another shape , and every structure arises out of fibre ; 12 , that the nucleolus is reproduced by self-division , and that subsequently , when it has passed into the form of fibre , the mode in Which the nucleolus gives origin to other structures is such as to imiply even here the continued reproduction of its own substance--that mode being self-division .
The author describes particularly the mode of origin of primary and secondary membranes , and division of the cell .
He considers that the latter is initiated by self-division of the nucleolus into halves which become " cytoblasts , " and it is completed by the formation out of these of two young cells , the walls of which , where in contact with one another , form a septum dividing the parent cell into two compartments .
Thus for division of the cell there occurs no folding inwards of a " &lt; primordial utricle , " as maintained by Von Mohl , nor any division of the contents of a parent cell into two parts , around which contents are formed the walls of two young cells , as supposed by Nageli and Hofmeister .
On the subject of annular , spiral , and other deposits in the vessels of plants , the author remarks , that when the divisions of an annular or spiral fibre are not continued , but partial and irregular , we have the reticular form , as well as an explanation of the supposed tendency in vegetable fibre to anastomosis .
The two spiral filaments composing fibre at first appeared to the author to run in opposite directions , which he subsequently saw was not the case , their direction is the same .
This error he corrected in Miiller 's Archiv for 1850 .
The author remarks , that observers in their endeavours to reach the ultimate structure of the muscular fibril have actually gone too far , and reached a later generation , --mistaking for the fibril a row of quadrilateral particles , the mere elements thereof .
These particles , he observes , are known to be alternately light and dark in alternate order ; they give origin to the term spirals ; and for this purpose the dark particles undergo what observers have entirely overlooked , division and subdivision , which changes he has figured in Miuller 's Archiv , 1850 .
The preparation in which he has again met with the subdivision into four is still , the author states , in his possession for demonstration to others .

