Influence of Condenser on Working of Coil .
69 conditions , as low as 10 per cent. , representing a loss of nine-tenths of the whole energy available .
The thanks of the author are due to Mr. T. E. Beacham , B.Sc. , for his assistance in connection with this paper .
An Experimental Investigation of the Influence of the Condenser on the Working of a Ruhmkorff , together a Practical Outcome thereof By William Hamilton Wilson .
( Communicated by Sir Oliver Lodge , F.R.S. Received March 8 , \#151 ; Read June 27 , 1912 .
) The opinion most generally held regarding the action of the condenser in a Ruhmkorff coil seems to have been that the condenser is charged by the falling magnetic field immediately after interruption , and discharges back through the primary winding , setting up oscillations which cause the magnetism to fall very rapidly .
The subject has been dealt with mathematically by Prof. Colley and others.* Lord Rayleigh has shown that very long secondary sparks can be obtained without the use of a condenser , by interrupting the primary current with great rapidity , such as by the severing of a wire with a rifle bullet .
Walter used a cathode ray deflected by the magnetic field to show that the primary current is oscillating , with a frequency depending upon the condenser capacity , and that the best results are obtained by adjusting the condenser capacity to a certain critical value.f Oscillograph curves of primary current and secondary E.M.F. have been obtained by Armagnat and others.\#163 ; An oscillograph method of obtaining such curves is described by Wittmann , S and Zenneck describes a method using a Braun tube.|| To completely understand what takes place it is necessary to have curves of secondary E.M.F. and of the currents in all parts of the primary system , with * ' Wied .
Ann. , ' 1891 , vol. 44 , p. 109 .
t 'Ann .
der Phys. , ' 1897 , vol. 62 .
+ Kenyon , The Induction Ooil .
' S ' Ann. der Phys. , ' 1904 , vol. 12 .
|| 'Ann der Phys. , ' 1904 , vol. 13 .
[ Mar. 8 , Mr. W. H. Wilson .
Influence of information as to relative phases and amplitudes , and the following research , commenced on February 27 , 1909 , was undertaken with the object of ascertaining the exact function fulfilled by the condenser .
Joubert 's method was adopted for obtaining the curves , using a Kelvin quadrant electrometer and a contact-maker rigidly attached to a motor-driven shaft , carrying an interrupter immersed in oil .
The interrupter^ was a disc of ebonite with a copper contact let into its edge ; a springy copper brush rubbed on the edge of the disc , and made contact once in each revolution .
The contact was connected to a slip-ring from which a brush carried the current to the coil .
The potential differences for operating the electrometer were obtained by resistance strips placed in each of the three parts of the primary circuit , a search coil of a few turns wound round the outside of the secondary at the middle , and a non-inductive reducing ratio placed across the interrupter terminals .
The curves obtained for the P.D. across the interrupter were found to be so closely the same as those for the secondary search coil that observation of them was not continued .
The diagram of connections generally adopted is shown in fig. 1 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Diagram of connections used in the investigation.\#151 ; 1 , primary of coil ; 2 , secondary ; 3 , exploring secondary ; 4 , battery ; 5 , condenser ; 6 , interrupter ; 7 , 8 , and 9 , resistance strips ; 10 , reducing ratio ; 11 , multiple-way switch ; 12 , contact-maker ; 13 , reversing switch ; 14 , condenser ; 15 , quadrant electrometer .
One coil experimented with , made by a well-known maker , was rated to give a 6-inch spark .
The primary resistance was 0'29 ohm , inductance 0'0114 henry .
The condenser capacity was P43 microfarads .
The secondary resistance was 8023 ohms .
The above described interrupter was substituted 1912 .
] Condenser on Working of Ruhmkorff .
for the ordinary platinum contact hammer interrupter .
For other experiments special coils were constructed , having iron cores 13\#163 ; inches long , If inch diameter , of good quality annealed charcoal iron wire , No. 28 S.W.G. well soaked in paraffin wax .
Primaries of No. 14 S.W.G. silk covered copper wire were wound on the cores in layers of 138 turns each , so arranged that the layers could be connected in series or used singly .
Experimental secondaries of No. 35 S.W.G. silk covered copper wire were wound by a special method in Hat helical sections to go over the primaries , with ebonite insulation between .
Condensers of various capacities were made up of tinfoil sheets and paraffined paper .
Where it is not otherwise stated the tests were made on coils constructed as described above .
The magnetisation curve for one of the cores obtained by means of a ballistic galvanometer test , showed that this was practically a straight line up to the point where saturation begins .
This knowledge is of great assistance in examining the results obtained , since the self-induction of the primary can be assumed constant up to the limit of core magnetisation advisable in well designed apparatus .
The curves of rising current in the primary , and secondary E.M.F. , when the battery circuit is closed , were first studied .
These showed that when the secondary winding is absent the current in the primary rises strictly according to Helmholtz 's equation c = E/ R .
[ 1 \#151 ; g~E\lt ; /L ] , when the magnetisation of the core is not carried beyond the point where saturation begins .
When the usual secondary winding is in place , however , the primary current no longer strictly obeys this equation .
During the initial stages of its rise there is an oscillating current superposed on the magnetising current .
This oscillating current seems to be due to the reaction of capacity currents in the secondary set up by the sudden E.M.F. generated in it at " make , " which surge to and fro and gradually die out .
Walter has shown that a high supply voltage is necessary to secure a reasonable frequency of interruptions of the primary current , while maintaining the full spark length of a coil having a given primary self-induction .
It can be shown , however , that the energy -fLC2 stored in the magnetic field can be made large even if the supply voltage is low , and the frequency of interruptions is high , if the self-induction of the primary is made small ; since the time constant of the circuit and the energy vary only directly with L , while the energy varies as C2 .
The curves in fig. 2 show that when the magnetising current is interrupted , the current persisting in the primary winding , after metallic contact is broken , divides into two distinct parts , one of which passes across the interrupter contacts in the form of a spark , while the other charges the Mr. W. H. Wilson .
of [ Mar. 8 , condenser and oscillates to and fro , with decreasing amplitude .
The secondary E.M.F. starts to rise as soon as interruption begins , and reaches its maximum value about the instant when the current in the primary is passing through zero , if the interrupter spark has died out .
This result is confirmed by observations obtained in a number of tests .
foIt in t turn 2 A mperes Interruption begins .
C. \ A .00083 Second Fig. 2.\#151 ; Curves of secondary E.M.F. ( A ) , primary current ( B ) , condenser ( C ; , and interrupter ( D ) currents at " break .
" Secondary not sparking .
C and D shown negative for clearness .
It does not appear , therefore , that the condenser demagnetises the iron core by discharging back through the primary .
The magnetism of the core must be substantially zero when the primary current is zero , since at this instant the condenser E.M.F. is equal and opposite to the E.M.F. induced in the primary by the changing magnetic field .
The secondary E.M.F. will be at its maximum , since the rate of change of the field is greatest when changing sign .
The energy ^LC2 , originally stored in the magnetic field before interruption began , has been transferred to the condenser , after making due allowance for the energy lost in the spark at the interrupter , and in damping caused by C2R in the primary and connections , eddy currents and hysteresis .
The maximum E.M.F. on the secondary terminals is equal to the voltage to which the condenser is charged multiplied by the ratio of transformation of the coil .
1912 .
] Condenser on Working of Ru 73 The following figures are calculated from curves obtained , and confirm the above remarks:\#151 ; Joule per cycle .
Energy supplied by battery 0-0642 55 lost in extra resistance of shunts 00383 55 supplied to coil 0*0259 55 lost in OR in primary 0*00453 = 17*5 percent , of input .
55 stored in magnetic field before inter- 0-0205 = 79-5 55 55 ruption 0-00728 = 28 55 lost in spark at interrupter 55 55 55 lost in hysteresis and eddy currents 0-00253 = 9-8 55 55 55 stored in condenser at maximum 0-0116 = 45 55 55 voltage These figures show that the efficiency of this coil , under the conditions of the test , with the secondary just able to spark across the gap , must be lower than 45 per cent. , since when the spark passes further losses must occur in the primary , core , and secondary .
It will be noted from fig. 2 that the secondary E.M.F. is an oscillating one , with considerable inverse half-waves when no spark passes ; and that the first half-wave is longer than succeeding ones when the oscillation settles down , practically 90 ' out of phase , to the natural periodic time of the primary oscillating current .
If the secondary is only just able to send a spark across the gap , it is clear that the energy of the spark is produced by the discharge of the condenser through the primary ; while if the spark gap is shortened the energy will be produced partly by the falling magnetic field and partly by the discharge of the condenser .
When the spark is very short the secondary discharge becomes practically unidirectional , if the magnetic leakage between primary and secondary is small , and the total resistance of the secondary circuit is not too high .
Fig. 3 shows that , under these conditions , the primary current and the condenser current increase in frequency due to the reaction of the secondary current .
In these tests the current across the interrupter was a steady leak , as the resistance of the shunts inserted for the tests damped out the oscillations which were found under normal conditions to take place across the interrupter .
By suitable adjustment of the self-induction of the circuit through the interrupter it was possible to obtain curves of these oscillations , but under normal circumstances their frequency is too high for them to be detected by a contact maker method .
The adjustment of a circuit inductively coupled with the interrupter leads till maximum resonance was obtained , indicated that with normal conditions the frequency is several ^hundreds 74 Mr. W. H. Wilson .
Influence of [ Mar. 8 , of thousands per second .
Other investigators have observed these oscillations.* It was found that much longer sparks could be obtained from the coil when these oscillations were present , and any resistance or inductance placed -Amperes Interruption \ -.00083 Second Fig. 3.\#151 ; Curves showing currents in primary ( A ) , condenser ( B ) , and across interrupter ( C ) when secondary was sparking 5/ 32 inch .
Six-inch coil .
in their path at once decreased the secondary spark .
For this reason the connection of the condenser directly across the primary , which would be desirable to eliminate the supply source from the path of the charging current to the condenser , will not in most cases give good results .
Fig. 4 shows the reduction in the periodic time of the secondary E.M.F. and increase in amplitude when the capacity of the condenser is reduced .
If the periodic time is decreased too far , either by decrease of the condenser capacity or of the self-induction of the primary , the secondary E.M.F. falls off .
This is due partly to the increased loss in the interrupter spark and partly to increased eddy current loss in the primary and core .
Tests showed that when the frequency of the oscillations much exceeds 1000 per second , eddy current losses become very considerable .
Curve E in fig. 4 shows that the action of the condenser in storing the energy of the magnetic field is the same , whether placed across the primary * ' Electrician , ' 1909 , vol. 63 , p. 720 .
Secondary E.M.F with condenser \ across primary winding 138 turns .
Secondary E.M.Fwith condenser / across secondary of equal number of turns .
i Interruption begins / ^ Curve E U-v00033 second\#151 ; J Fig. 4.\#151 ; Three curves of secondary E.M.F. with different condenser capacities , and one curve with condenser across a secondary , secon ary E.M.F. , with smaller capacity condenser , primary inductance 0*00396 henry ; B , secondary pr'mary inductance 0 00396 henry ; C , secondary E.M.F. with greater capacity in condenser , 00396 henry ; D , current in primary winding with 1'88 mfd .
condenser .
AVs.-Thia is positive , but shown 1912 .
] Con denser on Working of Ruhmkorff Coil .
Mr. W. H. Wilson .
Influence of [ Mar. 8 , winding or across a secondary of similar number of turns , when the magnetic leakage is small .
It was noted that when the energy in the magnetic field was so small as to cause no appreciable spark at the interrupter , a longer secondary spark could be obtained without a condenser on the primary than with one .
The conclusions drawn from the investigation are as follows:\#151 ; A low primary self-induction is desirable to enable considerable energy to be dealt with when only low supply voltages are available , but tends towards bad sparking at the interrupter , and , if obtained by reducing the primary turns , to serious inverse E.M.F. at " make .
" The condenser acts normally ( a ) by limiting the maximum voltage across the interrupter contacts ; ( b ) by limiting the rate at which that voltage rises as the contacts are separated ; ( c ) by producing high frequency oscillations across the interrupter which delay the loss of energy that would otherwise occur ; ( d)by limiting eddy current losses in the primary and core .
Sparking at the interrupter may be made as small as desired by sufficiently increasing the periodic time of the primary oscillating circuit , but this necessitates a considerable increase in the ratio of transformation of the coil for a given spark length .
To obtain long sparks with reasonable dimensions of the secondary a small periodic time is required .
To avoid serious inverse E.M.F. at " break , " magnetic leakage between primary and secondary must be as small as possible .
A number of arrangements were devised whereby magnetising turns of low self induction could be combined with an oscillating circuit of long periodic time , which periodic time could be reduced to any desired extent after interruption of the battery current , thus giving long sparks with few secondary turns and a small amount of inverse E.M.F. Fig. 5.\#151 ; -1 , primary of coil ; 2 , secondary of coil ; 3 , magnetising turns on inductance ; 4 , extra turns on inductance ; 5 , condenser ; 6 , interrupter j 7 , slip-ring brush ; 8 , mains brush ; 9 , inductance short-circuiting brush ; 10 , battery .
primary current , coil sparking ^ 19 cm .
between points .
primary current , coiI net sparking .
Second .
E.M.F. in 1 turn , coi !
not sparking .
\Secondary E.M.Fcoil sparking 1 F9 cm .
between points .
i* Secondary E.M.F \0*\ i f \ primary current .
Inductance unshortcircuited Inductance short- \ -circuited \ ( Inductance shortcircuited Fig. 6.\#151 ; 10-inch spark coil operated according to fig. 5 .
1912 .
] Condenser on Working of Ruhmkorff Coil .
77 The most suitable arrangement arrived at is shown in fig. 5 .
The magnetising turns are on a separate iron core to the primary and 78 Influence of Condenser on Working of Ruhmkorff Coil .
secondary windings of the coil , and have in series with them a sufficient number of turns to give the long periodic time for satisfactory interruption of the supply current .
Tapping points on this inductance , or autotransformer , enable the magnetising turns to be adjusted to suit the supply voltage .
Fig. 6 shows curves of primary current and secondary E.M.F. obtained with this arrangement .
At " make " the supply voltage charges the condenser , by transformer action , to a voltage depending on the ratio of the total turns on the inductance to the magnetising turns .
The charging current passes through the primary of the coil , inducing in the secondary an oscillating E.M.F. of small amplitude , the first half-wave of which is a direct , and not an inverse one .
This E.M.F. can be entirely suppressed by a modification in connections , or by providing a brush which short-circuits the primary at " make .
" The supply also magnetises the inductance core , and at " break " the condenser discharges back through the inductance , building its magnetic field up still slightly higher .
The magnetic field then falls and charges the condenser in the reverse direction .
The time taken to do this is normally made so long that the interrupter contacts are separated by about 1 inch before the condenser is fully charged , and since the voltage between them is determined by the supply voltage and the ratio of transformation of the auto-transformer , sparkless opening of the interrupter can be obtained without the use of oil or gas .
When the condenser is fully charged the necessary reduction in the periodic time of the oscillating circuit is obtained by short-circuiting the inductance .
The condenser then discharges with great rapidity through the primary of the coil , and induces a very high E.M.F. in its secondary .
If the secondary circuit is open too wide for a spark to pass , the E.M.F. is an oscillating one ; but immediately a spark passes the condenser discharge becomes almost entirely unidirectional , owing to the reaction of the secondary current .
This is well shown in the curves obtained with the coil sparking , but the coil used in this experiment had only a partially closed magnetic circuit .
The best results are obtained by using a completely closed core transformer in which the magnetic leakage can be made very small .
The early part of this work was carried out at King 's College , London , and the author wishes to acknowledge his indebtedness to Prof. Ernest Wilson for affording him facilities for carrying it out .
He further wishes to thank Messrs. F. S. Eobertson , E. E. Shawcross , H. W. Franks , A. E. O'Dell , and G. F. O'Dell , for help received , also Mr. F. W. Wright , who took great pains in constructing most of the apparatus experimented with .

