100 The Development of the Thymus , Epithelial Bodies , and Thyroid in the Marsupialia .
Part II.\#151 ; Phascolomys and Perameles .
By Elizabeth A. Phaser , B.Sc. ( Communicated by Prof. J. P. Hill , F.R.S. Received March 10 , 1915 .
) ( Abstract .
) This communication is a further contribution to our knowledge of the origin and development of the thymus and thyroid glands in the Marsupialia and contains a short account of these glands in two of the Diprotodontia , viz. Phascolarctos and Phascolomys , and in one of the Polyprotodontia , viz. Perameles .
Phascolarctos and Phascolomys .
Phascolarctos and Phascolomys normally possess only the paired superficial cervical thymus gland ; only in one foetus of Phascolarctos out of nine examined was a representative o*f the paired thoracic thymus ( thymus III ) found .
One pair of epithelial bodies , viz. epithelial body III , is always present , whilst a second pair , presumably epithelial body IY , although found in the wombat , may not always occur in the koala .
As in Trichosurus , the cervical thymus is mainly of ectodermal origin but entoderm to some extent takes part in its formation .
In Phascolarctos , it arises from the coalesced walls of the dorsal portion of the cervical sinus opposite the third gill-pouch and extending down opposite to the connection of the fourth pouch with the sinus , the entodermal component being probably derived from both ductus eeto-entobranchialis III and IY .
The third and fourth pouches have the same form as in Trichosurus hut the fusion of ectoderm and entoderm , which constitutes the ductus ecto-entobrancliialis III and IV , becomes very thick and solid , especially in the case of the ductus ecto-entobranchialis III , which passes into direct continuity with the primordium of the cervical thymus .
Although the second pouch is long and narrow and an elongated ductus ecto-entobrancliialis II is formed , the latter lies anterior to , and has no connection with , the thymus primordium .
In Phascolomys , on the other hand , the primordium is derived from the ectoderm of the closed cranio-dorsal walls of the cervical sinus together with a certain amount of entoderm from the ductus ecto-entobrancliialis II as in Trichosurus .
In Phascolomys , the whole of the third pouch apparently gives rise to epithelial body III and this is probably also true in the case of Phascolarctos Development of Thymus , etc. , in Marsupialia .
except for one foetus , where a thymus III is developed .
The second epithelial body , when present , owing to its posterior position and to its occasional occurrence close to the ultimobranchial body and the lateral lobe of the thyroid , may be regarded as having originated from the fourth pouch and therefore corresponds to epithelial body IV .
The thyroid , as in Trichosurus , develops chiefly from a median primordium .
The ultimobranchial body here also becomes closely connected with the lateral lobes and gives off sprout-like processes which probably contribute to the formation of thyroid tissue .
In Phasedarctos , the lateral lobes are remarkable in their tendency to be asymmetrical and to become divided up into several isolated portions .
In the possession of only one pair of superficial cervical thymus glands , Phascolarctos and Phascolomys exhibit a noteworthy parallelism with the mole , in which also the cervical thymus alone remains as the functional gland of the adult .
Perameles In Perameles , there is no superficial cervical thymus at any stage of development , but two pairs of well-developed thoracic glands are always present , as are also two epithelial bodies , viz. , epithelial bodies III and IY .
The thymus is derived certainly from the ventral solid portion of pouches III and IY , the epithelial body arising from the dorsal portion of the pouch in each case , hut whether the primordium of thymus III also takes origin , as in Trichosurus , from the caudal wall of the dorsal part of the pouch , could not be determined in the material available .
The thymus glands attain a remarkably large size and may unite to form a single thymus on each side or may remain quite separated from each other .
The median thyroid primordium and the ultimobranchial body differentiate as in Trichosurus , but the evidence in favour of the participation of the ultimobranchial body in the formation of thyroid tissue is especially convincing in Perameles .
*

