1883 .
] Prof. D. E. Hughes .
On Theory of Magnetism .
19 II .
" On the Affinities of Thylacoleo .
" By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received January 25 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) Since the communication of the paper " On Thylacoleo , " in the " Philosophical Transactions " for 1871 , further explorations of the caves and breccia-fissures in Wellington Valley , New South Wales , have been made , by a grant for that purpose from the Legislature of the Colony , and carried out by E. B. Ramsay , Esq. , F.L.S. , Curator of the Museum of Natural History , Sydney .
The present paper treats of the fossils contributing to the further restoration of the great carnivorous Marsupial ( Thylacoleocarni Ow .
) .
They exemplify the entire dentition in situ of the upper and lower jaws of a mature individual : the bones of the fore-limb , of which those of the antibrachium and the ungual phalanges are described , are compared with those of other Marsupials , and of placental , especially feline , Carnivora .
An entire lower jaw with the articular condyles adds to the grounds for determination of the habits and affinities of the extinct Marsupial .
Figures of these fossils of the natural size accompany the paper .
III .
" Preliminary Note on a Theory of Magnetism based upon New Experimental Researches .
" By Professor D. E. Hughes , F.R.S. Received January 27 , 1883 .
In the year 1879* I communicated to the Royal Society a paper " On an Induction Currents Balance and Experimental Researches made therewith .
" I continued my researches into the molecular construction of metallic bodies , and communicated the results then obtained in three separate papersf bearing upon molecular magnetism .
To investigate the molecular construction of magnets required again special forms of apparatus , and I have since been engaged upon these , and the researches which they have enabled me to follow .
From numerous researches I have gradually formed a theory of magnetism entirely based upon experimental results , and these have led me to the following conclusions :\#151 ; 1 .
That each molecule of apiece of iron , steel , or other magnetic metal is a separate and independent magnet , having its two poles and distribution of magnetic polarity exactly the same as its total evident magnetism when noticed upon a steel bar-magnet .
# " Proc. Eoy .
Soc. , " vol. 29 , p. 56 , 1879 .
t " Proc. Eoy .
Soc. , " vol. 31 , p. 525 j vol. 32 , pp. 25 , 213 , 1881 .
20 Prof. D. E. Hughes .
On a Theory of , [ Feb. 1 , 2 .
That each molecule , or its polarity , can he rotated in either direction upon its axis by torsion , stress , or by physical forces such as magnetism and electricity .
3 .
That the inherent polarity or magnetism of each molecule is a constant quantity like gravity ; that it can neither be augmented nor destroyed .
4 .
That when we have external neutrality , or no apparent magnetism , the molecules , or their polarities , arrange themselves so as to satisfy their mutual attraction by the shortest path , 'and thus form a complete closed circuit of attraction .
5 .
That when magnetism becomes evident , the molecules or their polarities have all rotated symmetrically in a given direction , producing a north pole if rotated in this direction as regards the piece of steel , or a south pole if rotated in the opposite direction .
Also , that in evident magnetism , we have still a symmetrical arrangement , but one whose circles of attraction are not completed except through an external armature joining both poles .
The experimental evidences of the above theory are extremely numerous , and appear so conclusive , that I have ventured upon formulating the results in the above theory .
I hope in a few weeks to bring before the Royal Society the experimental evidence which has led me to the conclusions I have named ; conclusions which have not been arrived at hastily , but from a long series of research upon the molecular construction of magnetism now extending over several years .

