]\gt ; On the Viscosities the Gases of the Argon Group .
By A. O. KINE , B.Sc. , Assistant in the Department of Physics , University College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. F. T. outon , F.R.S. Received February 2 , \mdash ; Read February 17 , 1910 .
) In a previous paper ( p. 265 , supra ) I have described a method which is especially suitable for comparing the viscosities of small quantities of .different gases .
I have now made use of it for determining the viscosities of specimens of helium , neon , argon , krypton , and xenon , which were very kindly placed at my disposal by Sir William Ramsay .
The results here recorded are for atmospheric temperatures only , but the measurement of the temperature variations will at once be proceeded with .
For this purpose , however , the apparatus will have to be somewhat modified ; and in view of the important bearing of viscosity upon the kinetic theory of gases and molecular properties , it has been thought unwise to delay publication .
of the JTethod .
A diagram of the principal part of the apparatus is given in fig. 1 .
It consists of two tubes connected together at both ends , and two taps for and extracting the gas enclosed .
The tube is a fine capillary tube about 50 cm .
long , and the tube is much wider in internal cross-section , but is nevertheless sufficiently narrow for the pellet of mercury to remain intact in it .
When tubes are held vertically , the mercury pellet travels slowly downwards , driving before it the gas enclosed through the capillary tube .
The apparatus may be filled with various ases whose viscosities\mdash ; subject to a small correction to be mentioned later\mdash ; are simply proportional to the times occupied by the mercury pellet in describing the distance between the marks and .
That is to say , if and are the times of fall for two different gases , It has been shown in the previous paper that there is a small reduction in the pressure exerted by the pellet owing to the surface tension of the mercury .
The amount of this surface tension certainly depends upon the gas to which the mercury is exposed ; but it is improbable that the variations are large ; and affecting , as they do , the ) the Gases of the only a small fraction of the total pressure applied , can be reasonably ected .
The reason why equation ( 1 ) only gives the ratio of viscosities } ) mately is that different gases have different coefficients .
The complete formula for transpiration , as applied to this particular method , is where is the viscosity , the radius of the capillary tube , the effective pressure exerted ) the mercury pellet , the time of fall veen the marks and the length of the capillary tube , and the volume swept out by the mercury pellet .
The slipping coefficient is , which depends upon the gas used .
Its value has been shown by O. E. Meyer to be practically equal to the mean free path in .
For of comparison , therefore , we must write where and are the mean free paths in the gases under the conditions of the experiment .
Under ordinary conditions , the mean free path is very small even compared with .
Therefore , with cient accuracy ( 4 ) It follows that , in order to compare and , we need to know the mean free paths in ) corresponding gases .
Or , if we know the absolute mean free path in one of them , say , the ratio will suffice .
In any casecomparatively values only are required , and we may obtain these by recourse to the -inetic theory of gases .
Upon the sinlplest assulnptio]s the relations hold : , and where is the density of the the mean square velocity of particles , and the pressure .
obtain or , if the pressure is the same for two different gases , To obtain a rough value of , we may use the approximate value of given by equation ( 1 ) .
A more accurate value of can then be obtained by using equation ( 4 ) , and , if necessary , the substitution may be LXXXTlI .
518 Mr. A. O. Rankine .
On the fficient.etermined ftandard substancerepeated.ection houndin tpparatus uuantity 4 at atmospheric pressure and temperature is , nearly enough , .
Hence the formula used in the comparisons becomes It may be here pointed out that equation ( 5 ) is subsequently used for the purpose of comparing the mean free paths in the various gases .
Jn this case the corrected value of is made use of .
Arrangcm of the rettus .
The vases w supplied to the author in test-tubes inverted ovel merClu'y , about 10 .
in each case .
This quantity was amply sufficient to fill , at atmospheric pressure , the viscosity apparatus , the total volume of the latter only 6 .
The methods of manipulating small quantities of valuable have so often been fully described* that it is unnecessary here to do more thau give a of the apparatus by means of which the tubes were evacuated and filled with the gas .
connection between the viscosity apparatus proper and the remainder was by means of short pieces of rubber , since it was necessary , after filling the former , to remove it for the purpose of repeated inversion .
In order to emove the gas after the experiment connection could then be restored , and the gas pumped out and collected over mercury .
The pump itself was not filled with the gas except during the process of removal , the tap being turned off before admitting the gas from the test-tube Q. By this means 10 .
was rendered more than sufficient to fill the tubes at atmospheric pressure .
The procedure for preparing the apparatus for a measurement was follows : whole was evacuated , and the tap turned off .
Gas was then See Travers ' ' Study of Gases .
' 1910 .
] of the of the Group .
admitted slowly by the taps T2 , , and until the pressure inside ) as eric .
The taps T2 and vere then turned off , and the gas between and ) off and collected .
The rubber joint near having been removed , the parallel tubes ( which are permanently fixed to a stand rotating about O ) were ready for nent .
Icthod of For a reason explained in the previous } ) aper it is necessary to ( 1 ) serve the time occupied by the end of the mercury pellet in describing distance / ?
in both directions and to take the mean .
In all the observations recorded here the mean of six tinles of fall\mdash ; three in each direction\mdash ; has ) taken .
The apparatus at ions with dry air , which has been taken as a standard .
The ercur pellet was used hout , and for the same temperature it found that the time of fall in air did not vary appreciably .
The variation in temperatul.e any one } ) let experiment was never more than C. and the mean valne has been taken .
values of time of fall in air were thus determined over the small temperature range from C. to C. The values range lrom seconds at the lower temperature to seconds at the : and the values for intermediate temperatures have been deduced by interpolation for comparison with the times of in the rare gases .
Rcsults .
The following the results of measurements the various \mdash ; The helium used part of thnt which l been puritied carefully by .
H. E. and used by bertson in ) most recent measure of refraction and dispersion .
It is probable that the amount of exceeded per cent. ature 9 Times of fall , in seconds .
to MeaIl Mean of all ) seconds .
Time for air at C. ) conds .
pproximate value of Applying correction slipping coefficients\mdash ; At C. , Mr. A. O. Rankine .
On the [ Feb. 2 , This ratio has already been determined by two other observers\mdash ; Lord Rayleigh* and H. Schultze .
The former obtained the value ; but this was soon after the discovery of helium , and the probability of considerable impurity was much greater than now .
The value obtained by Schultze is identical with the value recorded here , viz. , .
This , however , was at the temperature C. , but the temperature coefficients of helium and air differ only slightly , and the ratio is therefore practically the same over a small range of temperature .
Hence the present determination agrees almost exactly with that of Schultze .
2 .
Neon.\mdash ; Mr. Watson had also purified the neon used } these experiments .
It exhibited to a very marked extent the extraordinary property noticed by Prof. Collie\mdash ; that of brilliantly when in contact with moving mercury .
Both upon admission to and extraction from the apparatus these red flashes were visible even in full .
Prof. Collie has informed the author that such is the case only when impurities are almost entirely absent from the neon. .
The specimen used was probably the purest yet made .
Temperature C. Times of fall , in seconds .
to to 264.1 Meall Mean of all seconds .
Time of fall for air at C. Approximate vadue of Correcting for slipping coefficient\mdash ; At C. , No other values of this ratio have yet been recorded , so comparison is not possible .
Attention may be called to the fact that neon has a much viscosity at ordinary temperatures than any other gas hitherto experimented upon .
This may possibly have some bearing on the extraordinary property of neon mentioned above .
3 .
Argon.\mdash ; The specimen of this gas was again part of that used by Mr. Cuthbertson in his optical measurements , the results of which point to its great purity .
* Rayleigh , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 59 , pp. 198\mdash ; 208 , January , 1896 .
Schultze , ' Ann. der Physik ' ( 4 ) , vol. 6 , p. 302 , 1901 .
1910 .
] Viscosities of the of the Argon .
Temperature C. Times of fall , in seconds .
to a to 190.1 189.9 lIeau Mean of all seconds .
Time of fall for air at 123 C. seconds .
Approximate value of The mean free in air and rgon being nearly equal , the correction for slipping coefficient is negligible .
Hence\mdash ; At Here , again , comparison may be made with the values obtained by and Schultze .
The former found value for tlJe above ratio , and the latter at .
The same consideration as in the case of helium applies here with regard to temperature coefficients , and Schultze 's value and the present one are identical .
\mdash ; These gases had been purified by Prof. Moore for the purpose of accurate determinations of their densities , and are probably the purest specimens in existence .
4 .
Krypton.\mdash ; Temperature TiIlles of fall , in seconds .
/ ' to to.n .
lIean Mean of all seconds .
Time of fall for air at C. seconds .
oximate value of Correcting coefficient\mdash ; At *Rayleigh , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 59 , pp. 198\mdash ; 208 , luary , 1896 .
, ' Ann. der Physik ' ( 4 ) , vol. 5 , p. 140 , ) Mr. A. O. Rankin .
On the [ Feb. 2 , C. Times of fall , in seconds .
to 191.7 191.4 Mean Mean of all ) seconds .
Time of fall for air at seconds .
Approximate value of Correcting for slipping coefficient\mdash ; At C. , These being the first determinations of the viscosities of krypton and xenon , no comparisons may be made .
Discussion of Resnlts .
The following are the collected values of the ratio for the five gases dealt with : Gas .
Helium Neon evon Krypton Xenon The next table ives the absolute values of viscosities in C.G.S. units upon the basis of the author 's absolute values for air recorded in his previous paper : It will be at once noticed th in this group of gases there is neither a regular increase or decrease of viscosity with atomic weight .
As the atomic weight increases , the viscosity increases and decreases in successive 1910 .
] of the of the Arqon } steps of magnitude .
It is difficult to assign directly a cause for this effect .
can , howevel , by the kinetic theory of gases , deduce some information which is , at all events , gestive .
It cannot be doubted that the sumption of spherical molecules is more justifiable in the case of lnonat iases such these than in other cases .
, it is more to be expected that simple relations will hold for a set of gases occupying a single column in the periodic table than for ases chosen at random from the various groups .
It is well known that the mean free path in a may be calculated if the viscosity is known , and that the may be used for the estimation of the molecular dins and volume .
In what follows absolute have not been found , but the mean free and molecular dimensions of the various ases have been compared with the corresponding quantities for helium .
As previously pointed out , if and are the mean free ) aths in two ases at equal tures and pressures , and being densities under similar conditions .
It has further been shown that be expected to ) the following relation to the molecular being the number of molecules per unit For two gases under similar conditions has the same value , and therefore .
( S ) That is , the free ) depends only ) the nensions of the The viscosity , on the other land , depends on the masses of the molecules also , as is equations ( 6 ) and ( 8 ) .
latter equation enables us to compal .
C the molecular radii and volumes , for , , and making use of equation ( 6 ) to calculate In the appended table helinn has been taken as the standard in every case ; thus , for exanlple , its atomic weight taken as unity , and proportionate values ed to the other .
The column epresents t ratio atomic weight\mdash ; atomic lulne , which is llleasure of the density of atom itself , the spaces .
In figs. 3 and 4 the relations between viscosity and atomic weight mean free path and ) shown ] ) hically .
It will be Mr. A. O. Rankine .
On [ Feb. 2 , Gas .
atomic wtive .
Viscosity .
Meanfrpath.ee 1 lIolecularvolume .
* The numbers iu this column are relative to .
In order to obtain the absolute values of the each number must be multiplied by the factor cm .
his , however , will only give the order of the quantaty , since it depends upon the uncertain value of the number of molecules per cubic centimetre .
The latter number has been taken as noticed that although viscosity is successively large and small , the mean free path continues to diminish as the atomic weight increases .
A further and more remarkable fact\mdash ; to accentuate which dotted lines have been drawn\mdash ; is that straight lin joining the points representing He and Ne intersects the corresponding straight line for X and Kr close to the point representing argon .
The author can offer no explanation of this , but it is bvious , under the circumstances , that no single simple curve can be fitted to all five points .
This possibly be done if argon were omitted , but no sufficient reason exists for , so .
It is , perhaps , not surprising that no simple relation can be found between the mean free path and atomic weight , for we expect the former to depend , not upon the mass of the atom but upon its dimensions .
One can , however , FIG. 3 .
1910 .
] viscosities of the Gases of the Argon ATOMIC WEICH7 FIG. 4 .
calculate the atomic dimensions by the means luentioned earlier , and tesl their bearing upon the atomic weight .
to the above table , it will be noticed that both the molecular radius and volume incl.ease with increasing atomic , but no simple relations for all five gases have been found .
This will be seen from the last column , which represents the true atomic densities .
It is , nevertheless , worthy of remal.k that the atomic densities of kl'ypton , and xenon are practically the same , i.e. atoms of these three gases ) regarded as consisting of the same prilue material , their different masses being accounted for by the difference in their volumes .
It is noteworthy , also , thaC the three atolus mentioned are practically three times as dense as the helium atom .
In the case of argon , the atomic density is not so nearly integral .
It is not far rerlloved from but the difference is much llore than could possibly bc accounted experimental inaccuracy .
bove discussion is put ) rward with rese ] alue depends entirely upon the validity of the } ) lified form of the kinetic theory as applied to these oCIases .
It is certainly improbable that the latter is more than an approximation to the truth , and closer approximation is not to be expected in results deduced therefrom .
In conclusion , I wish to record my thank .
to msay for kindness lending me specimens of these gases ; to ] .
Cuthbertson , for much useful advice as to their manipulation : and to Prof. routon , for the constant interest he has shown during the course of these Stlrenlents .

