1884 .
] Microscopic Structure of s Rocks from Ecuador 131 tion , and as I feel convinced of their close relationship , I have only made a microscopic examination of two of the best preserved specimens .
These are somewhat intermediate between the two specimens mentioned above from Pichincha andAntisana ; being compact greyish lavas , with scattered crystals of white felspar .
The redder specimen\#151 ; which most resembles the above rocks , does not , after what has been said , need a detailed description ; it is a hypersthene-andesite with a little hornblende .
The duller-coloured specimen is an augite-andesite with some hypersthene .
The base of each is a clear glass , containing many very minute microliths , probably of felspar , and irregularly clouded with a grey dust and opacite .
Only one specimen remains to be described , the highest rock obtained by Mr. Whymper on Chimborazo , at an elevation of about 19,300 feet .
It is a slightly scoriaceous lava , rough to the touch , almost purple-black in colour , with numerous very minute specks of a glassy felspar .
Except that the base is rendered rather more opaque by disseminated opacite , it does not differ very materially from several already described .
There are the usual crystals of felspar , one or two being much rounded and very full of dull glassy enclosures ; there is a fair amount of augite , but no well-characterised hypersthene ; so that the rock may be named an augite-andesite .
Thus the rocks of Chimborazo appear to be andesites , and rather closely related ; the only variation of any importance being in the amount of hypersthene and the occasional presence of hornblende .
VII .
" Notes on the Structure of some Rocks from the Andes of Ecuador , collected by E. Whymper .
No. IV .
Carihuairazo , Cayambe , and Corazon .
" By Professor T. Gr .
BONNEY , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1884 .
Read June 19 , 1884 .
I have been favoured by Mr. Whymper with some short notes on the structure and physical features of the three volcanic mountains whose rocks are investigated on this occasion , and have prefixed them to my lithological descriptions .
It is remarkable what a general uniformity there is in the products of these summits of the Equatorial Andes , and this , as Mr. Whymper informs me , was so obvious that he made but small collections from the mountains which were visited during the latter part of his journey .
Carihuairazo .
" This forms the northern part of the massif of Chimborazo .
It is separated on its south side from its great neighbour by the depression 132 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On the [ June 19 , called Abraspungo ( 14,479 ) , and its northern slopes extend almost to the town of Ambato ( 8,500 ) .
The road to Quito winds round its eastern side , and may be considered to mark its boundaries in that direction .
* " It is stated by historians that this mountain was formerly loftier than Chimborazo , and that a portion of'its apex fell during a great earthquake which occurred at the end of the 17th century .
I saw nothing to lead me to suppose that the mountain was at any time much loftier than at present , though it appears beyond dispute that a great fall actually occurred at the above-mentioned period .
The part which fell may have formed the northern and eastern side of its crater .
At the present time the three peaks which are upon its summit ridge are disposed in a horseshoe form , and I conjecture formed the southern and western sides of a crater which is now buried underneath glaciers .
" We ascended the middle peak of these three , and by mercurial barometer found that its height was 16,514 feet .
Messrs. Reiss and Stiibel by A calculated the height of Carihuairazo to be 16,752 feet .
They , however , probably measured the most eastern of the three peaks , which is actually somewhat loftier than the central one .
" The lower slopes of this mountain are very swampy , from which it may be conjectured that there are not so many fissures in the .
soil as is common in the Ecuadorian Andes , and large thickets of trees , some of considerable age , grow high up its flanks , from which it is reasonable to conclude that it is long since the mountain was an active volcano .
The rocks at the time of our expedition were much covered up by snow in the higher regions , and by earth and vegetation on the lower slopes .
Such rocks as were exposed appeared closely allied to the specimens collected upon Chimborazo and the other mountains , and we only brought away specimens from the summit of the central peak .
These were taken close to its highest point .
" ( E. W. ) The rock appears to be pretty evenly jointed , it weathers brown , and breaks with a rather rough irregular fracture .
The colour on this is a warm purplish-grey mottled with darker spots , and speckled with small rather light coloured crystals of felspar with a rather satiny lustre .
A few minute vesicles may be perceived under the microscope .
The larger felspar crystals in the slide are rather numerous , and commonly vary from about '05 to '07 inch in the longer diameter .
They exhibit well developed polysynthetic twinning , and are labradorite or a closely allied form .
Enclosures of glass or various microliths are occasionally seen , but the majority of the crystals are fairly clear , though a few are very dirty , and have a corroded look at the exterior .
There is also present in the ground-mass a fair number of crystals of augite of a yellowish-green colour , not exceeding about '03 inch in length , and two or three which in structure , dichroism , 1884 .
] Microscopic Structure of some Hocks from " 133 and parallel extinction agree with hypersthene .
There are scattered crystals of hematite and scales of iron-glance , or possibly small angite crystals iron-stained .
The ground-mass appears to be a clear glass thickly studded with dusty ferrite , and with minute crystallites in part , at least , felspar .
The rock is , therefore , an augite-andesite , and bears some resemblance to the darker-coloured rock described in Part I from Pichincha .
Cayambe .
" The name Cayambe belongs both to a town and to a mountain .
The summit of the latter bears north-east by east from Quito , distant 45 miles .
According to my mercurial barometer observations its height is 19,185 feet , and this is remarkably close to the height obtained by Messrs. Reiss and Stubel by A , which was 19,161 feet .
The French Academicians at the beginning of the 18th century made its elevation slightly greater than my determination , and Humboldt does not appear to have measured it .
It is fourth in rank of the Ecuadorian Andes , being inferior in altitude to Chimborazo , Cotopaxi , and Antisana .
" The upper 4,000 feet of Cayambe are almost entirely covered by snow and glaciers , and such small patches of rock as are not covered are indistinguishable at the distance of a few miles .
From Quito the mountain has a very noble appearance , but owing to the cloudiness of the atmosphere it is not , perhaps , seen during as much as the fifth of the year .
The snow-line on Cayambe is lower than upon Chimborazo , though the former mountain is almost exactly upon the Equator , and the latter is considerably to the south of it .
The upper part of Cayambe is a huge hump , and does not appear cone-shaped from most directions .
At the level of 9,000 feet the mountain extends about 18 miles from north to south , and 14 to 15 miles from east to west .
" Until the time of my journey , it was conjectured that the mountain was still an active volcano .
We inspected the whole of its slopes fairly well all round , and saw no open crater .
It is probable that here , as in other of the Ecuadorian Andes , there was a crater near or at the summit which is now filled with snow .
It is certain that Cayambe is not now an active volcano , and that it has been one in the past\#151 ; the numerous streams of lava which are found upon its slopes leaving no possibility of doubt on the subject .
' ' \ ery few rocks being exposed upon the upper part of the mountain , I did here as upon Antisana , and collected specimens upon the highest attainable subsidiary peak having rocks uncovered , and from this point ( Point Jarrin , 16,163 feet ) , which bears about the same relation to Cayambe as the Aiguille de Gouter does to Mont Blanc , I took specimens of the rocks in , situ , and of the morainic fragments 134 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On [ June 19 , \#166 ; lying upon them .
There are no rocks exposed at the immediate summit .
The highest rock we were able to obtain , in situ was taken from a small patch of glacier-crowned cliff , some hundreds of feet below the central ( and highest ) peak on its western side , at a height probably of about 18,800 feet .
The culmination of the mountain is an irregular ridge , several hundred yards long , having three distinct snowy bosses .
" ( E. W. ) From the above-named lower summit\#151 ; the Pointe Jarrin\#151 ; Mr. Whymper has brought nine specimens , two of which were broken from rock in situ .
Of the seven specimens collected from the debris on the peak , two are rather scoriaceous : one , a small fragment , is a whitish , rather glassy rock , containing small crystals of a glassy felspar , with little plates of black mica and crystals of hornblende ( ?
) , in short , a very typical light-coloured " trachyte ; " the other is a rather denser rock with a pale reddish matrix and dull whitish felspar crystals , containing apparently less mica or hornblende .
The other five are evidently varieties of a rock of the same general character ; but one specimen is rather more micaceous than the rest .
The remaining four may be described as generally compact rocks , in colour varying from a dull purplish to a reddish tint\#151 ; the latter being probably due to an alteration in the iron constituent\#151 ; in fact , I believe the differences in the colour to be mainly the results of weathering .
Fairly numerous crystals of whitish felspar , in diameter from about 0T5 inch downwards , but generally not more than 0T inch , are scattered in the matrix .
I have examined microscopically two specimens from the debris , and one of the two from the rock in situ .
I will describe first the most uniform looking and apparently best preserved specimen from the debris ; a dull purplish-grey rock , with a fair number of small crystals of whitish felspar , an unequal fracture , and rather clean joint faces .
The base is a clear glass , so crowded with specks of opacite and ferrite and microliths of felspar as to have a grey dusty look , except in the thinnest sections .
In this are scattered the usual crystals of felspar ( plagioclastic , probably labradorite ) generally fairly free from inclusions .
Magnesian silicates are not very common , but I recognise both hornblende and augite , the former ( occurring as the larger crystals ) being somewhat black bordered and * replaced by opacite , the latter clean and probably belonging to a later epoch in the consolidation of the rock .
There are also to be seen scattered grains and crystals of magnetite and perhaps of hematite .
The rock has a general resemblance to some of the higher fragments from Chimborazo .
The next specimen ( occasionally slightly vesicular , evidently a little decomposed ) is of a warm-red colour with crystals of glassy felspar up to 02 inch , and a black mica , or hornblende , rather more conspicuous than in the rest .
It bears a general resemblance to some of 1884 .
] Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from Ecuador .
135 the " trachytes " from the Euganean Hills .
Under the microscope it is seen , like the last described , to have a clear base with micro-liths of felspar , but scattered in this are numerous rods of iron oxide , and plates of a very ferruginous mica , sometimes all but opaque .
There are a few crystals of hornblende in diameter up to about .04 inch , which are strongly dichroic .
There is but little if any augite .
One of the two specimens from the rock in situ appeared rather intermediate between the two varieties just described , and as it seemed rather decomposed was not sliced ; the other , in better preservation , resembled the more mottled or streaky looking specimens among the debris , and afforded slight indications of a fluidal structure .
This is indicated under the microscope by a " flow " of the microliths rather than by a marked striping or banding .
Except for this , the matrix resembles that of the first described , with some approach to that of the second .
There is nothing special to note in the larger felspar crystals which are plagioclastic , similar to those so often described ; some are clear , some rather full of glass enclosures .
There are fairly numerous hornblende crystals , some of an olive-green , others of a brown-green colour , strongly dichroic .
Some augite crystals are certainly present , and a few of a brown mica .
Microscopically the specimen from the highest visible rocks on Cayambe barely differs from that just described , except that a fluidal structure is more inconspicuous .
The result of microscopic examination is similar , the differences being but varietal ; hornblende , iron-mica , and augite are present , the last being the less conspicuous constituent .
Thus the rocks of Cayambe are very uniform in character , and of the same general type as those of Chimborazo , Antisana ( in part ) , and Pichincha ( in part ) .
They are andesites , but as they contain hornblende and augite , as well as mica , it is difficult to give them a distinctive name .
I am inclined to view the first , and perhaps the third , as minerals belonging to an earlier stage of consolidation than the second : thus perhaps it is more appropriate to classify these rocks with the augite-andesites , using the word hornblendic as a qualifying epithet , except in the case of the second specimen described above , which might perhaps be termed a mica-andesite .
Corazon .
" The mountain Corazon lies almost exactly midway between Illiniza ( 17,400 ) and Atacatzo ( 14,892 ) , and its summit is nearly due west of the town of Machachi , and south-south-west of Quito .
It has received its name from a resemblance which it is supposed to have to a heart .
Though a prominent mountain , it is one of the minor ones of Ecuador .
Its height , according to my mercury barometer observa136 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On the [ June 19 , tions on its summit , is 15,870 feet.* I have frequently seen its entire eastern side quite free from snow , but there are upon its opposite , or western , side some large snow-beds and couloirs which are apparently permanent .
The mountain therefore just enters the snow-line .
" The summit ridge is a great wall , about 250 feet long , running ( approximately ) north and east-south-east , having a sheer precipice on its western , and a very steep cliff on its eastern side .
Possibly this wall should be regarded as a dyke .
There is no regularly formed crater upon any part of the mountain .
" On the summit ridge I collected specimens of rock , and of debris lying upon it .
The crest of the ridge was almost covered by rock debris and earth .
Flowering plants were growing up to the very highest point , and vegetation near the summit was more abundant than was found at equal heights on any of the other Ecuadorian Andes."\#151 ; ( E. W. ) From the upper part of Corazon Mr. Whymper has brought eleven specimens .
Of these , ten were taken from debris scattered about on the summit ridge , and one was broken from the highest rock in situ .
The last is a scoriaceous rock with many small cavities and vesicles , darkish grey , slightly inclining to brown in colour .
The microscope shows that there is present a fair amount of a glassy base , with a brown staining .
This base contains numerous acicular colourless crystallites , and spots\#151 ; often rather elongated\#151 ; of opacite , which not seldom are clustered together , and form a kind of frame to the larger felspar crystals .
These last are rather abundant , and very commonly do not exceed about *02 inch diameter , though they are occasionally considerably larger , four or five times the size .
The latter often have the dirty look described above .
The slide contains a few grains of a pyroxenic mineral , not very distinctly characterised .
The ten specimens gathered at different localities on the summit ridge of Corazon afford the following varieties:\#151 ; ( A. ) A grey pumiceous rock , larger vesicles , a little more than *1 inch diameter : volume of solid part and hollows about equal : with this may be classed a rather less vesicular specimen , with small felspar crystals ; both these have a tendency to weather brown .
( B. ) Four specimens of more or less scoriaceous rock of a purplish colour within , weathering externally to an Indian-red colour , and containing specks of white felspar .
( C. ) Two specimens of dull grey rock with a rough fracture , speckled with small felspar crystals , and with a spotted look , one being more decomposed than the other .
* By A Messrs. Reiss and Stubel made its height 15,801 feet .
1884.1 Microscopic Structure of some Rocks from Ecuador .
137 ( E. ) A dark-coloured rock with numerous specks of white felspar , rather glassy-looking outside but with rough internal fracture .
( D. ) A rock similar to the last , hut in shape a flattish slab rather less than half an inch thick , reminding one of the andesites and phonolites used in Auvergne for roofing purposes .
The specimens ( A ) were not very well suited for examination , and were clearly only scoriaceous forms of andesites ; nearly allied to one of the specimens in ( B ) ; of these I have not had slides made .
( B. ) The differences in these do not appear to be more than varietal ; all are more or less vesicular , but in the one examined the cavities are very small and not numerous ; the matrix is a dull purplish-grey , weathering rather red externally , and minute white felspar crystals are abundant .
The microscopic structure differs so little from those already described that it will be enough to say that the ground-mass is rather opaque , and that there is present in it the usual plagioclastic felspar , a fair amount of characteristic augite , and a crystal or two of hypersthene .
( C. ) The less decomposed of the two specimens has been examined .
There are some varietal differences .
The larger felspar crystals ( labradorite ) are not quite so numerous as in the other , while crystallites about *01 inch or rather less in longer diameter are very numerous .
There is a fair amount of well-characterised augite , with grains of iron peroxide and opacite dust in a clear glassy base .
( D ) does not very materially differ except that the ground-mass of the slide is.rendered more opaque by the presence of opacite .
( E ) is a rock of similar character , except that the base is yet more opaque .
There is , however , one important distinction , that the greater part of the pyroxenic constituent appears to be hypersthene , and not augite .
It is almost impossible to doubt the presence of an orthorhombic mineral in this slide .
On the summit of Corazon Mr. Whymper found two rock specimens , evidently rudely dressed by hand , which will be described in his forthcoming work on the Equatorial Andes .
The material of these bore a close resemblance to the rocks described above under the group ( B ) .
From the above remarks it would appear that the crest of Corazon consists of augite-andesites , which only exhibit slight varietal differences , except in the last case ( E ) , where hypersthene becomes rather abundant , apparently predominating over the ordinary pyroxene .
It is a remarkable fact that the exterior aspect of the rock had at once reminded me of those black , somewhat resinous-looking rocks\#151 ; formerly variously called melaphyres , pitchstone-porphyrite , \amp ; c.\#151 ; which , of late years , have been so frequently proved to contain hypersthene .

