X. Account of an improved Thermometer .
By Mr. James Six ; comunicated by the Rev. Mr. Wollaston , F. R. S. Read February 28 , 1782 .
ATTEMPTING some time ago to ascertain the greatest degree of heat and cold that happened in the atmosphere each day and night , or during the course of twenty-four hours , I experienced the inconvenience which attends thermometers commonly made use of for that purpose ; the necessity I mean of the observer 's eye being on the instrument the very instant the mercury stands at the highest or lowest degree : for , since the time when that may happen is utterly uncertain , if it be not immediately noticed , it can never after be known .
The sultry heat of the summer 's days , and freezing cold of the winter 's nights , which is commonly most severe at a late unseasonable hour , render it very unpleasant to be abroad in the open air , although it is absolutely necessary for the thermometer to be placed in such a situation .
Ingenious men of our own country , as well as foreigners , have , it seems , long ago endeavoured to remedy this inconvenience ; and several thermometers of different constructions have been invented for that purpose .
VANSWINDEN describes one which he says was the first of the kind , made on a plan communicated by Mr. BERNOULLI to Mr. LEIBNIT Z. Mr. KRAF T , he also tells us , made one nearly like it * .
A description of those by Lord * Diss .
sir la Comparaison du Therm. par VANSWINDE N , p. 253-255 .
CHARLES CAVENDISH and Mr. FITZGERALD may be seen in the Philosophical Transactions * .
Though much ingenuity appears in the invention of those curious instruments , I could not forbear thinking , that a thermometer might be constructed more conveniently to answer the purpose , and show accurately the greatest degree of heat and cold which happened in the observer 's absence .
I therefore attempted to make one : with what success I submit to your better judgement , and proceed to give a description of the instrument .
Fig. 1 .
ab is a tube of thin glass , about sixteen inches long , and five sixteenths of an inch in diameter ; cdefgha smaller tube with the inner diameter , about one fortieth , joined to the larger at the upper end b , and bent down , first on the left side , and then , after descending two inches below a b , upwards again on the right , in the several directions cd e , fg h , parallel to , and one inch distant from it .
On the end of the same tube at h , the inner diameter is enlarged to half an inch from h to i , which is two inches in length .
This glass is filled with highly rectified spirits of wine to within half an inch of the end i , excepting that part of the small tube from d to g , which is filled with mercury .
From a view of the instrument in this state , it will readily be conceived , that when the spirit in the large tube , which is the bulb of the thermometer , is expanded by heat , the mercury in the small tube on the left side will be pressed down , and consequently cause that on the right side to rise ; on the contrary , when the spirit is condensed by cold , the reverse will happen , the mercury on the left side will rise as that on the right side descends .
The scale , therefore , which is FAHRENHEIT'S , beginning with 0 at the top of the left side , has the degrees numbered downwards , while that at the right * Phil. Trans. vol. L. p. 501 .
and vol. LI .
p. 820 .
side , beginning with 0 at the bottom , ascends .
The divisions are ascertained by placing this thermometer with a good standard mercurial one in water gradually heating or cooling , and marking the divisions of the new scale at every 5~ * .
Thus far our thermometer resembles in some respects those of Mr. BERNOULLI and Lord CHARLES CAVENDISH ; but the method of showing how high the mercury had risen in the observer 's absence , the essential property of an instrument of this kind , is wholly different from theirs , and effected in the following manner .
Within the small tube of the thermometer , above the surface of the mercury on either side , immersed in the spirit of wine , is placed a small index , so fitted as to pass up and down as occasion may require : that surface of the mercury which rises carries up the index with it , which index does not return with the mercury when it descends ; but , by remaining fixed , shows distinctly , and very accurately , how high the mercury had risen , and consequently what degree of heat or cold had happened .
Fig. 2 .
represents one of these indexes drawn larger than the real ones , to render it more distinct .
a is a small glass tube , three quarters of an inch long , hermetically sealed at each end , enclosing a piece of steel wire , nearly of the same length ; at each end cd is fixed a short piece of a tube of black glass , of such a diameter as to pass freely up and down within the small tube of the thermometer .
The lower end , floating on the surface of the mercury , is carried up with it when it rises , while the piece at the upper end , being of the same diameter , keeps the body of the index parallel to the sides of the thermometrical tube .
From the upper end of the body of the index at c is drawn a spring of glass to * The divisions below the freezing point are taken by means of a mixture of sea salt and ice , as described by NOLLET , DE LUC , and others .
the fineness of a hair , about five sevenths of an inch in length , which , being set a little oblique , presses lightly against the inner surface of the tube , and prevents the index from following the mercury when it descends , or being moved by the spirit passing up or down , or by any sudden motion given to the instrument by the hand or otherwise ; but at the same time the pressure is so adjusted as to permit this index to be readily carried up by the surface of the rising mercury , and downwards whenever the instrument is be rectified for observation .
To prevent the spirit from evaporating , the tube at the end i is closely sealed * .
Fig. 3 .
represents the thermometer on its frame ; the plates on which the scale is graved on either side are made to slide out , and the frame is open to the back , behind the large tube , which does not touch it , except at each end .
The cap a , and the base b , are made to fix on with screws , and only cover the turning of the small tube .
By a screw at the bottom of the frame , it may be made fast to the wall against which it is to hang without doors , to prevent its being shaken by violent winds .
Towards evening I usually visit my thermometer , and see at one view , by the index on the left side , the cold of the preceding night ; and by that on the right , the heat of the day .
These I minute down , and then apply a small magnet to that part of the tube against which the indexes rest , and move each of them down to the surface of the mercury : thus , without heating , cooling , separating , or at all disturbing the mercury , or moving the instrument , may this * When this tube is closed ( not hermetically , but only so as to prevent the spirits evaporating ) the thermometer must be brought to the greatest heat it is likely at any time after to sustain ; and though no more air is enclosed than what remains at that time above the spirits , yet that will , by its elasticity pressing on the fluid , answer every purpose as well as if the external air was freely admitted .
thermometer , without a touch , be immediately rectified for another observation .
When I wish to put the thermometer out of my hand , without hanging it up , I have a stand to place it on ; for if the mercury presses against the index , while the instrument lies in an horizontal position , it is in danger of passing by it , which is avoided by keeping the thermometer in a position nearly vertical .
To prevent the mercury shifting its place in the spirits within the tube ( which I apprehended it might do on account of the superiority of its specific gravity , especially when kept for a considerable time , very high on one side , and low on the other ) , I made that part of the small tube from e to f with the inner diameter exceeding small ; and found , upon trial , that after the summer 's heat had kept the mercury for a long time high on one side , the winter 's cold brought it again as accurately to the freezing point on the other as at first * .
This thermometer may be made a mercurial one by inverting the glass , and filling with mercury that part which in the first is filled with spirits , and with spirits that part of the small tube from d to g which in the former is filled with mercury ; the indexes in either case may be the same , and will be carried up in the same manner upon the surface of the mercury ; but the end of the tube at i , instead of being sealed , must then be left open , and stand inverted in a bulb , or small cistern of mercury , into which the external air has free access .
The diameter of the tube ab should be considerably increased if the degrees on the scale are required to be as wide as those in the spirit thermometers .
It is indeed better in this case to have a double rather than a larger single tube ; but finding the weight of so great a quantity of mercury in a thin glass tube * With a thermometer of this sort I observed the greatest heat and cold that happened every day and night throughout the year 1781 .
attended with many disadvantages , and the motion of the fluids in the spirit-ones perfectly agreeing with , and being as readily excited by change of heat and cold , as in the mercurial thermometers , I preferred the former as much more commodious .
A person cannot approach near to the thermometer first described when the air is very cold ( especially with a light which by night is necessary ) without causing the spirits presently to expand , and consequently the mercury on the left side immediately to descend .
This sensibility is here attended with every advantage , without the inconvenience to which common thermometers in this case are liable * ; for the index will accurately show the greatest height to which the mercury had risen , although , before the exact degree can well be distinguished , it will appear separated from the index , and descending apace .
As the scale is sixteen inches long , and divided into 100~ only , which are more than sufficient for the temperature of the air , they are large enough to be sub-divided at pleasure .
The indexes , though of a tender and delicate nature , when once placed in the tube , are not liable to suffer any alteration by time or accident ; and the thermometer may be exposed to rain at all times , without suffering the least injury in any respect .
In constructing the thermometer before mentioned , I at first hit on a plan by which the same end was obtained by a dif* The most sensible mercurial thermometers commonly have the column of mercury as well as the degrees very small , and a person assisted with a light can hardly view them near enough , when the weather is very cold , without causing the mercury to rise before the degrees where it stood can be well ascertained .
Freezing fogs also , which with us usually attend the greatest degrees of cold , by covering the glass with forced , render the mercury invisible , and cannot well be mercury removed without causing the to rise , or at least render the observation doubtful , which at such a time is very disagreeable ; for , in proportion to the extraordinary degree of cold , so is our curiosity likely to be excited .
ferent method ; and though , in some respects , and for some purposes , it may not be so proper as that already described , yet , for some others , it may be found useful , and therefore I shall briefly describe it .
The glass of this instrument is in all respects the same as in the former , excepting that the diameters of the tubes are something larger .
It is likewise filled with spirits of wine and mercury , in the same manner ; but the indexes are different , being only a small tube of black glass , about fivesevenths of an inch in length , hermetically sealed at each end , containing a piece of steel wire .
An index of this sort is placed in the thermometer on either side , which , having no spring to support them , sink down in the spirits , and rest upon the mercury .
Whenever the mercury descends , the index will follow it ; but when it rises , the index will not rise with it , and by remaining at the place to which the mercury had descended , will show the greatest degree of heat or cold which had happened .
In this manner do these indexes answer the same purpose , though they move directly contrary to the others in the other thermometer ; but this instrument is not so easily rectified as the former , for the most powerful magnet will not bring the index up again while the mercury above presses against them ; and although it is possible to remove the mercury , and by that means set the index at liberty , yet inconveniences will be incurred from which the other is entirely free .
In some cases it may be found expedient , instead of the double thermometer first described , to make two single ones ; one to show the greatest degree of heat only , and the other the cold , each having its proper index ( see fig. 4 .
and 5 .
) .
The first has the small tube bent down on the left side , and the lower end immersed in a bulb or small cistern of mercury , to which the external air has free access ; the other has the small tube turned up on the right side , with some mercury let down to the bottom , and the upper end closely sealed , as in the double instrument .
Making a standard mercurial thermometer , by which the scale of the spirit one was to be divided , I endeavoured to obtain as wide degrees as possible , that the motion of the mercury might thereby be rendered more conspicuous , and the height of it ascertained with greater precision .
It is true , the larger the degrees , the larger in some measure must be the bulb , and therefore the fluid contained in it not likely to be so soon affected by any change of heat or cold in the atmosphere as in a smaller .
But as this thermometer was principally to be used immersed in a large quantity of water , gradually heating or cooling , little or no disadvantage could arise from making the bulb somewhat larger than those commonly made use of in the air .
Not being able , however , to procure glass tubes so long as I had occasion for , whose inner diameters were perfectly equal , I took the following method to adjust the divisions on the scale to the inequality of the tubes .
Choosing a tube of a length suitable to my purpose , with a proper bulb at the end , I put into it a small quantity of mercury * sufficient to form a column about one inch in length .
Drawing then on a board the three lines aa , bb , cc , fig. 6 .
I placed the glass tube on the line aa , and while the mercury remained at rest at the end of the tube , near the bulb , I made two pencil marks on the line aa , one at d , and the other at e , perfectly coin* To put in a small quantity of mercury , and measure its length at different parts of the tube , as described by Abbe NOLLET , vol. IV .
p. 370 .
Lecons Phy .
sique , is a very excellent method to discover the error ; but in what manner readily to adjust the scale , so as to avoid any inaccuracy from such inequality ( which in tubes of the length I had occasion for seemed to me unavoidable ) was a matter concerning which I could meet with no information .
ciding with the two ends of the column of mercury : then causing the mercury to move slowly on farther from the bulb , till that end of the column which was first at d coincided with the mark at e , and letting it rest again , I made another mark at f ; after which , causing the mercury to move on as before , and continuing to mark its length at every part of the tube till it reached the end farthest from the bulb ; by these means I obtained the several intermediate points on the line aa .
Through these several points I drew dotted lines parallel to each other , and at right angles with the line aa to the line bb .
Taking now , with a pair of compasses , the widest intervals between any of the dotted parallels , which in this case is from d to e , I inserted that distance successively between the several parallels , beginning at the lowest pair , as from d to e , from e to f , from f to g , and so on to h , as exhibited in the figure ; and the aggregate of these lines may be considered as one continued line , without any error of consequence in this matter .
Having now the thermometer completely filled with mercury , the air expelled , the point of the scale at 102~ , and the freezing point properly taken * and marked upon the tube , which was now hermetically sealed , I again applied the tube to the line aa , and marked on that line the point of 102~ and the freezing point .
Through those points I drew the lines ii , kk , and divided that part of the compound line dh included between ii * The freezing point , marked on the tube of this thermometer , is immediately taken by means of grated ice ; but the point of 100~ by a standard mercurial thermometer , the upper point of the scale of which was properly taken by boiling water , and the lower one by grated ice ; but it is more commodious in the first to have the tube no longer than the air scale , especially as the degrees are pretty wide .
The method of adjusting the scale to the inequality of the tube remains the same , let the given points be at any distance , or the divisions increased to any number .
and kk into 14 equal parts , beginning at o , the point where ii cuts the line dh , continuing afterward six divisions now on that line below kk , making in all 20 equal divisions .
If now lines be drawn through each of the dividing points , from o to 20 to the line cc , at right angles with the same , they will give on the line cc the true thermometrical scale to every 5~ from 2 to 102 , properly adjusted to the inequality of the tube * , which in this case is nearly of the same diameter at each end , but smaller towards the middle .
Tubes may indeed be found of some considerable length with less inequality than what this scale exhibits ; but the error is here enlarged , to render the method of correcting it more conspicuous .
* Experimentally to prove this method I have made mercurial thermometers , whose scales from the freezing point to that of boiling heat were nearly three feet , and though the inequalities of the tubes were very considerable , varying in contrary directions to each other ; yet when they were placed on the same frame , they perfectly agreed in a motion of the mercury in every part of their scales .

