On the great Strength given to Ships of War by the application of Diagonal Braces .
By Robert Seppings , Esq , F.R.S. Read November 27 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 1 .
] The principle of applying diagonal frame-work to ships of war was first partially and successfully adopted in the Kent , of 74 guns , in the year 1805 , and since that period has been successfully employed in the construction of thirty-eight sail of the line and thirty frigates .
These circumstances might be deemed conclusive as to the advantages of the new system ; but as the Royal Society have already published this author 's account of it at a very early period of its adoption , he is induced to offer the result of a new experiment in proof of the correctness of the principles before laid down , which , as far as his knowledge extends , has never been previously applied , nor ever suggested by any continental writer , though , says the author , it has been pretty broadly insinuated that the hint was borrowed from the French .
In the early part of the present year , the Justitia , an old 74 , was ordered to be broken up ; when Mr. Seppings , notwithstanding her shattered condition , determined to apply the trussing principle .
Prior to her being taken into dock , sights were placed in the lower and upper gun-deck , to ascertain , when she had grounded on the blocks , how rluch she deviated from her state afloat .
She was then partially trussed , as described by reference to an annexed drawing , and floated out into the basin .
After lying one hour , it was found , by the sights placed on the gun-deck , that she had come down in the mid-ship 1 foot ; and by those on the upper-deck , 1 foot 2 ?
- ; inches .
In twenty-four hours she further hogged 2-5 inches , and then appeared stationary .
The trusses in the hold were then removed , and she further hogged 6 inches , and 38inches in removing those in the ports .
In further illustration of the efficiency of the principle , Mr. Seppings adduces the Nelson , St. Vincent , and Howe , three 120-gun ships of the same dimensions ; the two former built upon the old plan , the latter upon the diagonal system .
The Nelson , after she was launched , altered 91inches from the original sheer , the St. Vincent 9+ , and the Howe only 35 inches .
The paper concludes with a very favourable report from Captain Coode , of the state of His Majesty 's ship the Albion , after the memorable battle of Algiers , which , in his opinion , stood the con cussion from the firing better than would have been the case had she not been constructed on the diagonal plan ; and with an account of the deck of the Northumberland , which was laid on one side fore and aft as usual , and on the other side diagonally , the materials on each side being similar .
After her return from St. Helena , the officers of the Sheerness yard , who were directed to examine her , reported , that having examined the state of the decks and waterways , they found the comparison so much in favour of the larboard side , as to determline in favour of the diagonal system .

