495 Croonian Lecture : The Process of Excitation in Nerve and Muscle .
By Keith Lucas .
( Communicated by Sir John Bradford , Sec. R.S. Received June 6 , \#151 ; Lecture delivered June 6 , 1912 .
) To physiologists working half a century ago it must have seemed that there was scarcely a problem of their science more hopeful of solution than that of the physico-chemical nature of the nervous impulse .
Helmholtz had recently measured the rate at which the impulse is propagated along a nerve .
Du Bois Reymond 's researches had placed the study of animal electricity on a scientific basis , and there was just commencing that work of Bernstein which coupled the two phenomena by mapping out the time-relations of the electric change which sweeps along an active nerve , and showing how this change keeps time with the nervous impulse .
But the problem is still unsolved ; indeed , the progress towards solution was for a long time of such a nature that physiologists were able 10 years ago to write such words as these : " After decades of work by so many distinguished investigators we are as far as ever from the understanding of the intimate nature of nervous excitation , " * ; or , again : " In recent times voices have been heard belittling the scientific value of electrophysiologyf " ; or , in the more picturesque words of v. UexkullJ : " For whole decades the frog 's leg has been investigated without being crippled by the shrewdest heads and the most talented experimenters .
" I do not come before you to-day with any new solution of this problem .
Nor shall I even attempt to criticise those many solutions which physiologists have offered from time to time .
My aim will be more elementary than that ; it will be to enquire into that fundamental analysis of the biological phenomena concerned , which must precede any formulation of physico-chemical hypotheses , and to see how far that analysis can guide us towards the building of our hypothesis on a sure foundation .
To each investigator of the phenomena of the excitable tissues there must stand out pre-eminently some aspect of past work which will seem to account for the slow measure of progress .
By some of those writers whom I have quoted the cause of failure was located in the too artificial handling of the problem as one of physics rather than of * Biedermann , 'Ergeb .
d. Physiol. , ' 1903 , vol. 2 , Part 2 , p. 132 .
t Loeb , 'Arch .
f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1902 , vol. 91 , p. 248 .
J v. Uexkull , ' Leitfaden in d. Stud .
d. Exp. Biologie , ' Wiesbaden , 1905 , p. 5 .
Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , biology .
As v. TJexkull* remarks : " They had reckoned without their host , and the host 's name was Life .
" To others , the mistake has seemed to lie rather in too exclusive a consideration of the physical side of the phenomena and a consequent neglect of the chemical factors involved.f The aspect of the problem which has appealed to me is that in nerve and muscle we have to deal with a complex sequence of phenomena , some intimately , and some only more remotely concerned with the actual propagated disturbance which is the basis of the nervous impulse .
The phenomena which precede , accompany , and follow the propagated disturbance form the chief data on which we have to rely in formulating our hypothesis as to the physico-chemical nature of that disturbance , and we can build on a sure basis only when we have a rigid experimental knowledge of the way in which these phenomena are inter-related .
It is perhaps the surprising feature of the past history of this investigation that out of so rich a body of experimental work on the individual phenomena we can gather so small a number of established propositions as to their mutual dependence and inter-relation .
And yet it is in this particular problem of the nature of the propagated disturbance , if in any , that the question of inter-relation must play a fundamental part .
The disturbance is an unknown change which sweeps along the excitable tissue , and we can come to grips with it only through the conditions by which it is initiated and the measurable effects which it leaves behind .
Let us turn to this question of analysis and consider first what is the complex of phenomena with which we have to deal .
For the purpose of this enquiry I shall choose the artificial case of an isolated motor nerve with its attached muscle , the nerve being stimulated at one point by the passage of a brief electric current along a small part of its length .
I choose here just those artificial conditions and that artificial stimulus to which some investigators have objected , and I shall hope presently to justify the choice .
The principal and most obvious phenomena consequent upon the application of the stimulus are these .
A change of unknown nature travels along the nerve in both directions from the seat of stimulation ; it is this change which I shall speak of as the propagated disturbance and not by the more specialised name ot the nervous impulse , because there is evidence that a change of similar nature travels along muscle-fibres also .
We are made aware that the propagated disturbance has travelled along the nerve by the changes which it effects in the muscle on its arrival there , but there are two measurable changes in the nerve itself which also follow the application of the stimulus ; these are a * Loc .
cit. t Hober , 'Zeitschr .
f. allg .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 10 , Sammelreferat , p. 173 .
1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and Muscle .
497 redistribution of electric potential in the nerve ( the electric response ) and the failure of a second stimulus to produce like effects for a period of a few thousandths of a second ( the refractory state ) .
On the arrival of the propagated disturbance at the muscle all the phenomena which occurred in the nerve are repeated there , and , in addition , the muscle undergoes a mechanical contraction and heat is liberated .
We have to enquire how each of these phenomena is related to the propagated disturbance .
A. The Local Excitatory Process .
Consider , then , the first link in this chain , the setting up of the propagated disturbance by the electric current .
Is this all , or does the current itself bring about some intermediate change which then provides the necessary condition for starting the propagated disturbance ?
The question is of fundamental importance to our analysis , because if such a preliminary process is involved we may hope , from a study of the conditions to which an adequate stimulating current must conform , to learn its physico-chemical nature ; we shall then be in possession of the conditions within a tissue by which the propagated disturbance is started , and shall have made one step towards the identification of that disturbance .
The classical method of dealing with this problem has been to show that various substances , such as carbon dioxide , ether , and alcohol , which gradually suspend the functional activity of nerve , alter at different rates the ease with which a propagated disturbance already started can travel along ' the nerve , and the ease with which such a disturbance can be initiated by an external stimulus .
In the usual terms , there is a difference in the rates of abolition of " conductivity " and " excitability .
" The method , used first by Grunhagen , * and later by many observers who followed him , is to treat with any of the narcotics only a part of the length of the motor nerve innervating a muscle , leaving the portion more remote from the muscle unaffected .
From time to time during the progressive action of the narcotic determinations are made of the strength of stimulus required to cause a contraction of the muscle both when the stimulus falls actually within the narcotised region of the nerve , and when it falls on the normal part beyond .
If the narcotic merely renders the nerve less easily excitable , the stimulus applied within the narcotised region will need to be strengthened , whereas that applied to the normal region will need no alteration .
If , on the other hand , the narcotic lowers the ability of the nerve to conduct , then the stimulus applied in the normal part may become ineffective , because the propagated disturbance which it sets up has to traverse the narcotised * Griinhagen , ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1872 , vol. 6 , p. 180 .
Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , region before it can reach the muscle .
The results obtained from the application of this method are of two kinds , appearing successively at different stages of narcosis .
The earlier stage ( first described by Griinhagen)* is that whereas the stimulus applied within the narcotised region has to be strengthened , a stimulus applied in the unaffected region need be no stronger than before .
Apparently , then , the propagated disturbance can pass through the narcotised region without difficulty , but is not easily initiated there ; the narcotic has altered excitability , but not conductivity .
The later stage ( first noticed by Szpilman and Luchsinger)t is that the stimulus inside the narcotised region may still make the muscle contract if made very strong , whereas no strength of stimulus applied to the normal part will produce any effect on the muscle whatever .
Apparently it has now become impossible for a disturbance to be propagated through the whole length of the narcotised region , though one can still be set up within it .
These facts , which have been verified repeatedly , have been taken as evidence that , in the ordinary physiological terms , " excitability " and " conductivity " can be differently affected , and that , consequently , excitation by an external stimulus must involve a process which is not involved in the propagated disturbance .
Is this result to be accepted for our purpose ?
It is clear from the work of WerigoJ FrohlichS and Boruttau|| that the later stage of narcosis certainly will not bear any such interpretation .
These observers have made it clear that the diminution of a propagated disturbance in a narcotised nerve increases with the length of the narcotised region traversed .
The explanation of the second stage of narcosis would therefore seem to be that the propagated disturbance set up in the normal part of the nerve has to traverse the whole length of the narcotised region , and consequently gets wiped out of existence , whereas that set up within the narcotised region has a shorter length of narcotised nerve to traverse , and therefore succeeds .
But there still remains the earlier stage of narcosis , in which apparently the excitability is altered , while the conductivity is still normal .
Here , again , it is probable that the apparent dissociation of the two processes is illusory .
WedenskylT found that , though a single disturbance appears to get through the narcotised region without diminution at a time when excitability is already obviously altered , yet the attempt to send a rapid succession of disturbances along a nerve in this * hoc .
tit .
t ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1881 , vol. 24 , p. 347 .
f Werigo , 'Arch .
f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1899 , vol. 76 , p. 552 .
S Frohlieh , ' Zeitschr .
f. allg .
Physiol. , ' vol. 3 , p. 148 .
|| Boruttau and Frohlieh , * Zeitschr .
f. allg .
Physiol. , ' vol. 4 , p. 153 .
IT Wedensky , 'Arch .
f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1900 , vol. 82 , p. 134 .
1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and Muscle .
condition reveals the fact that the conduction process is really no longer normal .
Boruttau and Frohlich* also opposed the usual interpretation .
They found that the longer the stretch of nerve narcotised the smaller was the fall of excitability observed at the stage of narcosis in which the conduction process first began to fail .
It would seem probable from this result that if we could use a sufficiently long nerve we should find that even the smallest perceptible change of excitability brought with it a measurable change in conductivity , and that our failure to recognise the latter in the ordinary experiment lies merely in the fact that the propagated disturbance , though diminished in the course of its propagation through the narcotised region , is so little diminished that it still causes the muscle to contract effectively .
This possibility comes before us with even greater force if we take into account the results of some work which Adrian has recently carried out at Cambridge .
He has been so kind as to allow me to mention his results , which have not yet been published .
He finds evidence that a propagated disturbance passing down a locally narcotised nerve will , if not too far diminished by its passage through the narcotised region , actually recover in size again when it passes out into a normal stretch of nerve beyond .
This observation might appear to contradict the experiments of Boruttau , f which showed that a propagated disturbance , after emerging in such a way , was accompanied by an abnormally small electric response , but in reality there is no contradiction , since Boruttau 's experiments did not exclude the possibility that the reduced response was due to some fibres having failed to propagate any disturbance at all .
If this result of Adrian 's proves to be well founded , it supplies an obvious explanation of the failure of the muscle contraction to indicate small changes in the size of the propagated disturbance transmitted through a narcotised region , for the disturbance , by the time it reaches the muscle , may have recovered its normal size again .
It appears from this evidence that the dissociation of two processes by the analytical method of Griinhagen is in all probability an illusion resting on an inadequate method of determining changes in the size of the propagated disturbance .
The evidence is , however , still incomplete .
We have no direct experimental proof that the degree of narcosis which first calls for a stronger exciting current within the narcotised region does actually cause a diminution of the propagated disturbance as it passes through that region .
Nor will such evidence be obtained until we have an exact experimental method of measuring small changes in that disturbance .
As we have seen , the - * Boruttau and Frohlich , loc. cit. t Boruttau , ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' vol. 65 , p. 7 .
Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , method of measurement in terms of the effect produced by the disturbance after it has emerged into a normal region of the tissue can probably detect only changes so gross that they have led to complete extinction .
To measure in terms of the electric response produced in the nerve ( a method not infrequently used ) is to beg one of the most fundamental questions in the analytical problem with which we are dealing ; such a method assumes a knowledge of the relation between propagated disturbance and electric response which we do not possess .
It chances , however , that a method which seems capable of detecting extremely small changes in a propagated disturbance has grown out of some experimental work which Adrian and I have recently published.* We found that if two propagated disturbances are sent down a nerve in close succession , the shorter the time-interval by which they are separated the less is the length of slightly impaired nerve which the second disturbance is able to face without extinction.f In fact , the second disturbance is continuously less in intensity the shorter the time-interval separating it from its predecessor .
It becomes possible , therefore , so to time two disturbances that the second is only just able to propagate itself successfully along a perfectly normal nerve ; such a minimal second disturbance will at once be extinguished if the " conductivity " of the nerve is in the least degree impaired .
This method is now being applied in the Cambridge Laboratory to test whether during the earliest stages of narcosis the slight changes of excitability usually observed to precede any gross change of conductivity are in Teality accompanied by a small but measurable diminution of the propagated disturbance in the course of its travel .
When the investigation is complete we hope to have an answer to this long-standing riddle of the interpretation .of Griinhagen 's experiment .
As a means of analysis then this method of dissimilar alteration has failed us for the present at least .
But it does not follow that no differentiation of two processes can be found .
I believe , in fact , that along quite other lines .evidence has really been available for some years past , merely waiting to be put together in a connected argument .
It is a fact long ago established in physiology that if a short current just too weak to set up a propagated disturbance is applied to a nerve , then for a short time after this current has ceased to flow a second current , otherwise * Adrian and Keith Lucas , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 44 , p. 68 .
+ This elementary fact was probably at the root of the observation of Wedensky mentioned above , that a narcotised nerve may appear to be conducting normally when tested with a single stimulus , but may , nevertheless , appear abnormal when tested with periodic stimuli of high frequency .
1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and .501 too weak to be effective , will succeed in setting the propagated disturbance in motion .
It is clear that some change persists in the nerve after the first current has ceased to flow , and renders effective the otherwise inadequate second stimulus .
The important question from the analytical standpoint is whether this persisting change is merely a quantitatively less intense disturbance of the same nature as that which is the basis of propagation , or is an incomplete preliminary process which needs to be of greater intensity before the propagated disturbance can be initiated at all .
The evidence on this point seems to establish clearly the fact that the latter alternative is correct ; we have to do with a preliminary change .
In the first place Adrian and I found that there was no measurable trace of this change being propagated from the seat of the first stimulus.* Also it must be noticed that whereas the persisting after-effect of the inadequate first stimulus is that the tissue can be excited by a weaker stimulus than otherwise , the effect of an adequate stimulus on a nerve is that for a considerable^ period a second stimulus will either be unable to excite at all , or will need to be considerably strengthened , these being the phenomena of the refractory state which Gotch and Burchf first detected in nerve .
It is scarcely probable that the same disturbance should so invert its after-effects by undergoing itself no alteration but a change of intensity .
And the evidence in favour of these divergent after-effects belonging to two distinct stages in the setting up of the propagated disturbance becomes far stronger when we examine the effect of temperature change on the persistence of the aftereffects of adequate and inadequate stimuli .
It was shown by BazettJ that a fall of temperature from 18 ' C. to 8 ' C. prolongs the time of persistence of the lowered excitability following an adequate stimulus by about 200 per cent. The heightened excitability which follows an inadequate stimulus I foundS to be prolonged under a like change of temperature by less than 40 per cent. The outcome of this evidence I think is clear .
We have in the summation of inadequate stimuli proof of the existence of a local change which must be brought about with a certain intensity by the stimulating current before the propagated disturbance can be started .
I have called this change the local excitatory process .
We shall return presently to examine it more closely , and shall see how a knowledge of its nature is essential to any hypothesis of the propagated disturbance because it is the middleman between that , disturbance and the external stimuli which we can control experimentally .
* * * S * Adrian and Keith Lucas , loc. cit. t Gotch and Burch , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1899 , vol. 24 , p. 410 .
J Bazett , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1908 , vol. 36 , p. 426 .
S Keith Lucas , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 39 , p. 469 .
Vol. lxxxv.\#151 ; b. 2 k Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , B. The Electric Response .
We turn now to the second stage of our analysis , the problem how the propagated disturbance is related to the electric response .
The starting point of this problem is the work of Bernstein.* which showed that the electric response keeps time with the propagated disturbance in its passage along a nerve or muscle .
The fact actually shown was that the time-interval between the culmination of the electromotive force of the electric response at two points on the length of a nerve or muscle agrees with the interval between the passage of the propagated disturbance under those two points , as calculated from the mean rate of travel of the latter .
This work established the proposition that the electric response is a normal accompaniment of the propagated disturbance , but does not resolve our doubt completely .
We have to enquire further if the association is a necessary one .
This point must be fundamental to any hypothesis of the propagated disturbance , because any hypothesis must give an account of the electric response and must know whether to include it as the central feature of propagation or to regard it as a mere accessory .
From time to time physiologists have brought experimental evidence to show that the two phenomena can be dissociated , that there can be an electric response when there is no propagated disturbance or a propagated disturbance with no electrical accompaniment .
The most careful experiments of this sort are those of G-otch and Burch.f They observed that when two stimuli separated by a suitable interval of time were applied to a cooled portion of a nerve , the electrometer connected to this part of the nerve showed only a single electric response , whereas in a warmer portion of the nerve more distant from the seat of stimulation the electrometer showed clearly that two separate electric responses were present .
They concluded that the second propagated disturbance must have passed along the cooled part of the nerve unaccompanied by such differences of potential as constitute the familiar index of the electrical response , and that the absence of any perceptible electric response does not ' necessarily imply the absence of the propagated excitatory disturbance .
LaterJ Gotch brought evidence that within a short distance of a recent injury a propagated disturbance might pass without any perceptible electric change , a fact in which he saw * Bernstein , * XJntersuchungen iiber d. Erregungsvorgang im Nerven- u. Mnskel-systeme , ' Heidelberg , 1871 .
+ Gotcb and Burch , 'Proc .
Physiol. Soc.'j 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' January , 1899 , vol. 23 , p. xxii ; * Journ. Physiol. , ' 1899 , vol. 24 , p. 422 .
J Gotch , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1902 , vol. 28 , p. 50 .
1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and Muscle .
additional support for the conception that the electrical concomitant of the nervous impulse may under certain conditions fail .
Quite recently Ellison* has described a series of experiments from which he draws the conclusion that an electric response does not necessarily accompany a nervous impulse .
A motor nerve is treated with cinchonamine hydrochloride and stimuli are applied within the region so treated .
It is found that though the muscle contracts when the nerve is stimulated , no trace of an electric response is shown by a galvanometer connected with a pair of electrodes on the nerve .
Herzenf and EadzikowskiJ attacked the problem in the reverse way , bringing evidence to show that there may be a marked electric response in a nerve along which no propagated disturbance is travelling .
Their method was essentially to show that a nerve under the influence of various abnormal conditions would respond to a stimulus with an electric response though no contraction of the muscle resulted .
They concluded that the presence of an electric response was no necessary indication that a nervous impulse was present .
These experiments were severely criticised by physiologists both as to their technique and as to their interpretation .
WedenskyS and Boruttau|| repeated the experiments and called attention to sources of actual experimental error ; it would , however , be superfluous to enter now into the details of that controversy , since recent experimental work has brought to light facts which seem to invalidate the principle upon which the method was founded .
Herzen and Eadzikowski relied for their proof that no nervous impulse passed along the nerve on the fact that the muscle did not contract .
To this inference it was very naturally objected that perhaps the junction between nerve and muscle had shared the abnormal influences which had been brought to bear upon the nerve , and had become impassable to the nervous impulse .
EadzikowskilF was careful to exclude the possibility of any such gross change in the junction between nerve and muscle ; but recent work has shown that even in a nerve and muscle recently excised and kept under the best possible artificial conditions the junctional region will be found to offer a Certain resistance to propagation .
For example , Adrian and I found evidence that in an apparently normal preparation there may often be some nerve-fibres which fail to transmit a single propagated * Ellison , 'Proc .
Physiol. Soc. , ' January , 1911 ; ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 42 , p. i ; Joum .
Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 43 , p. 28 .
t Herzen , 'Centralbl .
f. Physiol. , ' 1899 , vol. 13 , p. 455 .
t Radzikowski , ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1901 , vol. 84 , p. 57 .
S " Wedensky , ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1900 , vol. 82 , p. 134 .
[ | Boruttau , ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1901 , vol. 84 , p. 325 .
Radzikowski , loc. cit. , and ' Centralbl .
f. Physiol. , ' 1901 , vol. 15 , p. 273 .
Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , disturbance to the muscle.* Such facts as these suggest how dangerous it is to argue from the failure of the muscular contraction to the absence of a propagated disturbance in the nerve .
The danger is especially great when , as in the experiments of Herzen and Badzikowski , we have to deal with nerves under abnormal influences and likely therefore to transmit disturbances abnormal either in their time-relations or in their magnitude .
Until we have some index of the presence and absence of the nervous impulse more reliable than its success in passing the junctional region and provoking the muscle to contraction , we cannot accept as proved the occurrence of an electric response in nerve unaccompanied by a nervous impulse .
We must turn , therefore , to the evidence brought in favour of the converse proposition , that the propagated disturbance may be present with no electrical accompaniment .
I fear that the experiments of Ellison , which I have mentioned , give us very little help in this matter , at least in the present state of the enquiry .
Dittler and Satakef have repeated them within the present year and fail to confirm the results which Ellison obtained .
They find in fact that cinchonamine hydrochloride , like other drugs which suspend the activities of nerve , abolishes simultaneously the nervous impulse and its electrical accompaniment .
If one can still be detected so can the other , and as soon as one fails the other shows no trace .
They have suggested that Ellison 's results rest chiefly on his failure to realise that in a nerve whose conduction process is abnormal the propagated disturbance undergoes a decrement which increases with the length of nerve traversed .
Neglecting this factor , he may have so chosen the seat of excitation that the propagated disturbance set up was able to reach the muscle without complete extinction , but failed to cover the longer distance which separated it from the electrodes connected to the galvanometer .
The question can hardly yet be thought of as settled , but this much is clear , that without more exact confirmation Ellison 's work cannot be taken as evidence that there can be a propagated disturbance unaccompanied by an electric response .
There remain then the experiments of Gotch and Burch .
BoruttauJ repeated those experiments which related to the absence of a second electrical response in a cooled region of nerve and its appearance in a warmer region beyond .
He could not satisfy himself that there was ever complete absence of the second electric response in one region unless it was also absent in the other .
Gotch , S after analysis of the photographic records on which he and Burch had * * * S * Adrian and Keith Lucas , * Journ. Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 44 , p. 90 .
t Dittler and Satake , ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 144 , p. 229 .
f Boruttau , 'Arch .
f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1901 , vol. 84 , p. 402 .
S Gotch , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1902 , vol. 28 , p. 52 .
1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and Muscle .
founded their original statement , discovered a small trace of a second electric response in the cooled region of the nerve .
This response was greatly delayed and might easily have been regarded as a part of the single response .
Nevertheless its presence limited the possible inference from the experiment to the statement that an effective propagated disturbance might be accompanied by a scarcely measurable disturbance of electric potential .
In the same paper Gotch brought the further evidence that the neighbourhood of a recent injury may be incapable of producing an electric response of sufficient magnitude to affect ?
a sensitive capillary electrometer , though it is a region obviously able to propagate a disturbance , since quite weak stimuli applied to it will provoke a disturbance which is propagated to other parts of the nerve .
This observation has not , as far as I am aware , been called in question , and we must admit at least that the nervous impulse may be accompanied by an electric response so small as to be imperceptible by the capillary electrometer .
Have we here a satisfying proof of want of parallelism between the propagated disturbance and the electric response ?
In our interpretation of the experiment we must bear in mind the limitations which are imposed upon our measurement of both phenomena , and must find a want of parallelism only if we are clear that whereas the one has undergone very great diminution the other has not .
In measuring the electromotive force of the electric response we are at a great disadvantage .
It is an old observation , which has lately been brought into prominence , * that the electromotive force which we measure with our electrometers is only an unknown fraction of that actually present in the tissue .
We are leading off the fall of potential between two points of that external part of the circuit in a nerve or muscle which is made up of the lymph or other fluid retained between the fibres .
What part of the total resistance of the circuit that represents , and consequently what part of the whole potential difference is led off , we do not know .
Still more are we unable to obtain a relative measure of the size of a propagated disturbance at any given point in a tissue .
Our one method is in practice to measure the consequence of the propagated disturbance\#151 ; either as muscular contraction or as electric response\#151 ; after it has emerged from a region where it has been modified .
If the experiments of Adrian , of which I have already spoken , prove to be valid , such methods can in reality tell us only whether a disturbance has or has not been extinguished .
Consider , for example , such an experiment as that of Gotch and Burch on locally cooled nerve .
Within the cooled region the second electric response was scarcely perceptible ; in the warmer region beyond it was large .
There seems no valid argument against the supposition that the second propagated disturbance was also * Cf .
Bernstein , ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1902 , vol. 92 , p. 562 .
Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , reduced to minimal intensity within the cooled region ( where recovery from the effects of the first disturbance would be slow ) , and grew up to full dimensions again when it emerged into the warmer stretch of nerve .
In fact , we are attempting in such experiments as these to study the parallelism between two phenomena , of one of which we can obtain a relative measure only down to certain unknown limits of smallness , while of the other we can make no relative measure at all\#151 ; we can , in fact , only assert with some probability that it is present or not .
On these grounds , in the ultimate resort , I believe every attempt to show directly a want of parallelism between the propagated disturbance and the electric response has been wrecked .
Must we , then , abandon the attempt to enquire by direct experiment whether changes in the electromotive force of the electric response do run parallel to changes in the propagated disturbance ?
There is one possible method , and , as far as I can at present see into the matter , only one , by which it is possible to obtain a relative measure of the propagated disturbance , that is to measure it in terms of the only property which we can assign to it without unwarranted assumption , its ability to propagate itself .
It is this method which Adrian and I used when we were trying to measure the effect upon a propagated disturbance of the time-interval separating it from a predecessor which had passed along the same path .
We found that the shorter the interval the less was the distance which the second disturbance could travel without extinction through a tract of nerve in which it was undergoing a decrement .
The essence of the method is to set the disturbance , whose intensity is to be measured , at a region of nerve where conduction is impaired , and to determine whether it is there capable of travelling as far as a full normal disturbance could travel .
A comparison of the distance travelled by the disturbance under test with the distance travelled by the normal disturbance gives a measure of the relative intensity of the former .
Another example of the method is its use in the work of Adrian on the recovery of a disturbance after it has emerged from a tract of nerve where it has been undergoing a decrement .
His method was to lead it , after it had emerged clear from one such tract , into a second , and to see whether it was as successfully propagated through the second tract as was a fresh disturbance which had not faced the first tract at all .
This is a possible method of obtaining the measure which we need .
Whether the future solution of our problem will rest on the laborious accumulation , by some such method , of evidence that the electric response and the propagated disturbance are indissolubly bound together , cannot be foretold .
Up to the present the available evidence does not contradict the 1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and Muscle .
507 proposition that the electric response is a constant concomitant of the propagated disturbance .
But for the purpose of any hypothesis as to the physico-chemical nature of the latter , the mere stringent proof of that proposition would not be enough .
The important point for any such hypothesis is whether they are identical , that is whether the disturbance of electric potential at one point on a nerve is the actual and direct cause of the same phenomenon in a neighbouring part .
Any hypothesis must be prepared to state whether the electric phenomena play the central part in propagation or are to be relegated to the position of a mere by-product .
On this point it is hardly likely that the direct experimental method can decide .
A more hopeful line of enquiry springs from the study of that local excitatory process whose recognition was the first step in this analysis .
If we can satisfy ourselves as to the physico-chemical nature of the local change we shall know the conditions by which the propagated disturbance is initiated , and we shall have some ground for hypothesis as to the change which would need to be produced by the propagated disturbance in one part of a nerve in order that a like change might spread to the neighbourhood .
To this point I shall return .
There is one more line of experimental work upon the relation of the electric response to the propagated disturbance which must be taken into account before we pass to the remaining steps of the analysis .
Though the general fact of the association of the electric response with the propagated disturbance is already established clearly enough , yet there is evidence pointing to a modification of the electric response by the mechanical conditions of contraction in a muscle .
Amaya , * Bernstein and Tschermak , t and more recently Samojloff , t have called attention to alterations of the electric response consequent on the tension encountered by a muscle during contraction .
These facts may have no more significance than an alteration of the electric conductivity of a muscle during contraction .
They may , however , touch our argument more closely in the sense that , as Straub S has recently suggested in the course of work on the heart , some small part of the electric response of muscle may have its origin in chemical processes related to contraction .
This possibility needs to be kept in mind even though the general origin of the electric phenomena in nerve and in muscle can scarcely be supposed to differ .
* * * S * Amaya , 'Arcli .
f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1898 , vol. 70 , p. 101 .
+ Bernstein and Tschermak , 4 Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1902 , vol. 89 , p. 289 .
J Samojloff , 4 Arch. f. ( Anat .
u. ) Physiol. Suppl. , ' 1908 , p. 1 .
S Straub , 4 Zeitschr .
f. Biol. , ' 1910 , vol. 53 , p. 499 ; cf. also Samojloff , 4 Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 135 , p. 446 .
Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , I must now turn away from this dark question of the part played by the electric phenomena in propagation , and must trace the remaining steps of the analysis .
It must be confessed with regret that just on that point which seems most fundamental to any hypothesis of the propagated disturbance the analytical evidence is the most obscure .
C. The Refractory State .
The refractory state is the last of the phenomena found in nerve whose position in the chain of processes must be examined .
I am using the term refractory state in perhaps too wide a sense , meaning to include all those phenomena of impaired functional activity which are associated with recovery from the excited state .
These include not merely the actual impaired excitability which shows itself as the complete inefficacy of a stimulus of any strength for a short time , and then as the need for a stimulus stronger than the normal by an amount diminishing as recovery proceeds .
There are also the phenomena which seem at first sight to affect the propagated disturbance more directly , namely the fact that the electric response to the second of two stimuli occurs with abnormally long delay , a phenomenon which Gotch* was the first to attribute to a slowing of the rate of propagation , and the fact that the second of two propagated disturbances is of abnormally small intensity if it follows a predecessor closely , f All these phenomena pass away gradually as the time increases since the previous activity of the tissue , and it seems not improbable that they are all expressions of a single process of recovery .
The problem of the present analysis is the relation of this recovery to the propagated disturbance .
The phenomena all follow the passage of an effective stimulus , and might therefore represent the recovery either from some change associated with the propagated disturbance or from some local change produced by the exciting current at the seat of excitation only .
The evidence on this point may best be taken for each of the phenomena separately .
For the actual refractory period TschagowetzJ has given expression to the latter view by including that phenomenon in his hypothesis of the nature of the local excitatory process .
GotchS noticed , however , that the refractory period appeared to be little affected if the second stimulus , instead of falling on the same point as the first , fell on a part of the nerve * * * S * Gotch , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 40 , p. 250 .
t Boycott , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1899 , vol. 24 , p. 144 ; Adrian and Keith Lucas , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 44 , p. 93 .
\ Tschagowetz , 'Arch .
f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1908 , vol. 125 , p. 401 .
S Gotch , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 40 , p. 267 .
1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and Muscle .
509 which had only been traversed by the propagated disturbance which the first .stimulus had initiated .
This fact Bramwell and I have confirmed , * and there seems to be real evidence that the refractory state is a consequence of the passage of the propagated disturbance , and not a local effect .
The delay of propagation was ascribed by Gotchf to both factors , the propagated change and the local effect .
His evidence on the latter point was that prolonged stimulation of a nerve brought the seat of excitation into a condition which delayed the propagated disturbance .
On attacking experimentally the relative importance of the two factors , in so far as they enter into the effect of a single stimulus , I found that the delay was practically identical whether the second stimulus did or did not fall on the same point as the first .
} From this .experiment it follows that the delay observed in such a case is a consequence of some change left behind in the tissue by the propagated disturbance as such .
It would seem that the local effect which Gotch described does not enter normally into the delay , being only a consequence of such prolonged stimulation as produces some abnormal alteration of the tissue .
The delayed propagation falls therefore into line with the refractory state as part of the process of recovery from some change associated with the propagated disturbance .
The third phenomenon , the reduced size of the propagated .disturbance elicitable during recovery , does not seem yet to have been assigned experimentally to its position , but the close parallelism of its progress in timeS with that of the refractory period is strong evidence that both are aspects of one process of recovery .
The sum of this evidence is that in all these phenomena of impaired activity we have expressions of a single process of recovery from some change which is associated with the propagated disturbance .
From what change precisely the tissue is recovering we do not yet know .
It seems very probable that in these phenomena we measure the actual return of the tissue to the equilibrium position after its disturbance by that change which is the basis of propagation .
The most definite attempt to relate the refractory state to the progress of other phenomena of activity has been that of Tait.|| He starts from the observation which many experimenters have made , that there is a general association between the duration of the refractory period and that of the electric response , the two phenomena changing together as we pass from tissue to tissue , or from one condition to another .
Beyond this he points * * * S * Bramwell and Keith Lucas , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 42 , p. 495 .
} Gotch , loc. cit. + Keith Lucas , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 41 , p. 400 .
S Adrian and Keith Lucas , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 44 ; p. 93 .
|| Tait , ' Quart .
Journ. Exp. Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 3 , p. 221 .
Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , out a characteristic effect of the drugs yohimbine and protoveratrine , namely the association of a great prolongation of the declining phase of the electric response with a great lengthening of that part of the refractory state which is marked , not by complete inexcitability , but by the need of stimuli of abnormal strength .
On these facts he founds the hypothesis that the period of complete inexcitability corresponds to the rising phase of the electric response , that of only relative inexcitability to the declining phase .
The facts on ' which this hypothesis rests are of obvious significance , but the interpretation put upon them cannot be justified without a thorough simultaneous measurement of the phenomena .
It will be enough here to recall one pair of measurements which can be gathered from the general literature of the subject , in order to indicate that Tait 's hypothesis will need more stringent proof before it can be accepted .
Bazett* found that in the sartorius muscle of the frog a fall of temperature of 10 ' C. prolongs the refractory period by more than 200 per cent. ; over the same fall of temperature and in the same tissue I foundf that the ascending phase of the electric response is prolonged by not more than 70 per cent. If these results are valid the two phenomena , though of like duration at one temperature , cannot remain so when the temperature is changed .
We have much still to learn about the relationships of the refractory state .
But its recognition as a part of the process of propagation cannot fail to be a significant fact for any hypothesis of the propagated disturbance .
It is already suggestive that the effect of temperature change on the process of recovery should be so widely different from that produced on the rate of propagation .
Maxwell* first showed that the effect of a fall of 10 ' C. is an increase of the time of conduction in slug 's nerve of the order of 80 per cent. , and values of the same order have since been found for amphibian nerve and muscle .
S To set against this we have Bazett 's observation of more than 200 per cent , increase in the refractory period .
This value needs to be checked for other tissues , and particularly for nerve , but we can scarcely doubt that it will prove a significant fact when we reach the point of formulating a definite quantitative hypothesis of the propagated disturbance .
D. The Contraction Process .
* Up to this point the processes into whose position we have enquired have all been such as occur in nerve as well as in muscle .
In turning now to \#166 ; .
* * Bazett , loc. cit. t Keith Lucas , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1909 , vol. 39 , p. 207 .
{ Maxwell , ' Journ. Biol. Chem. , ' 1907 , vol. 3 , p. 359 .
S Keith Lucas , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1908 , vol. 37 , p. 112 ; Woolley , p. 122 .
1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and Muscle .
511 contraction and to the liberation of heat we have to deal with processes which are apparently absent from nerve and are therefore on the first showing not essential to propagation .
We must not dismiss the matter quite so lightly .
The possibility that these phenomena really constitute a part of the propagation process , reduced in nerve to minimal dimensions , is not to be overlooked .
Bose , * arguing from the general probability that in all the excitable tissues the fundamental phenomena are identical , each particular aspect being merely accentuated in accordance with functional requirement , was led to try whether nerve was able to contract .
By an optical method he found that electric currents from an induction coil did cause the nerve to shorten .
That this shortening was the analogue of muscular contraction was not proved , and Wallerf was led by his own experiments to regard it merely as a result of the heating effect of the " stimulating " current .
Quite apart from such evidence , there is a large body of experiment showing that the propagated disturbance may continue in a muscle which has been rendered unable to contract .
Biedermannj was the first to bring evidence of this nature .
He reported that a muscle steeped for part of its length in distilled water was no longer able to contract in that part , but was still able to transmit a propagated disturbance .
The validity of these experiments was energetically denied by Kaiser , S but seems to have been established by the later work of Overton|| and Hartl.1T The experiments of Hartl are particularly valuable , because they were so devised as to exclude by special precautions the possibility that the apparent passage of a propagated disturbance through the non-contractile part of the muscle rested in reality on a spread of the exciting current to the part which remained normal .
Hartl found disproof of such a possibility in the long delay which his experiments showed between the passage of the exciting current in the altered part of the muscle and the appearance of contraction in the normal part .
The disturbance was evidently propagated slowly through the water-logged muscle .
The danger which^besets the interpretation of experiments of this type is , of course , that there may have been in the water-logged part of the muscle a central core of fibres not yet completely robbed of their ability to contract , yet too feeble to bring about a visible shortening of the whole muscle .
Such fibres might have served to propagate * Bose , ' Comparative Electrophysiology/ 1907 , p. 507 .
t Waller , ' Proc. Physiol. Soc. , ' March , 1908 ; ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 37 .
X Biedermann , ' Stzber .
d. k. k. Akad .
Wien .
, ' 1888 , vol. 97 , III , p. 101 .
S Kaiser , ' Zeitschr .
f. Biol. , ' 1895 , vol. 31 , p. 244 .
|| Overton , ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1902 , vol. 92 , p. 146 .
IT Hartl , * Arch. f. ( Anat .
u. ) Physiol. , ' 1904 , p. 80 .
Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , the disturbance from the seat of excitation to the normal region .
However , Hartl 's experiments were made on thin muscles which had been for half an hour in the non-isotonic solutions , and such a source of error is therefore improbable .
Quite recently new evidence along the same lines has been brought to light by the work of Noyons* on the electric response of the heart .
Working on the hearts of frogs , tortoises , and fresh-water mussels he has found that various drugs will abolish the beat in so far as it consists of contraction , while leaving the rhythmic electric response still strong .
If in these hearts the disturbance is propagated along the muscular tissue , then the presence of the electric response in parts of the heart not contracting and not excited from without seems to be clear evidence that the propagated disturbance has passed over the muscle without any accompanying contraction .
Minesf has also just reported a case of this dissociation .
The skeletal muscles of the ray after treatment with a dilute solution of ether give no mechanical response to strong interrupted electric currents , but still contract fully when bathed with suitable concentrations of acid , alkali , or potassium salts .
In this case the order of things is reversed , the mechanism of excitation and propagation being apparently thrown out of gear while the mechanism of contraction is still present .
On quite different lines he has argued for the dissociation from the effects of certain ions on the heart .
A hydrogen ion concentration slightly above that normally encountered by the heart will cause stoppage in the relaxed state ; a still higher concentration produces permanent contraction .
The separation of these two stages of action is emphasised by the fact that trivalent cations can produce the former but not the latter .
He suggests that the first stage means a stoppage of the processes concerned in excitation and propagation , while the latter indicates that in the meantime the mechanism of contraction has not been damaged .
All this evidence tends in the same direction , that of showing the contraction process to be not ai ?
essential part , but a consequence of the propagated disturbance , following that disturbance only in those tissues in which the necessary mechanism is present .
E. The Liberation of Heat .
The last of all the chain of processes which I am attempting to bring within this analysis is the liberation cff heat .
Happily , since we are now concerned only with relating this process to the propagated disturbance , the * Noyons , ' K. Akad .
v. Wet .
te .
Amsterdam , ' November , 1908 , and April , 1910 .
t Mines , ' Proc. Physiol. Soc. , ' May 18 , 1912 .
1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and Muscle .
513 evidence is clear .
Helmholtz* showed that in a nerve the passage of a succession of propagated disturbances did not raise the temperature by as .
much as 1/ 1000 ' C. Rollestonf lowered the possible change of temperature to 1/ 5000 ' C. , and within the present year HillJ has shown that the heat liberated by the passage of a single propagated disturbance along a nerve cannot be sufficient to raise the temperature of the nerve by more than about a hundred millionth of a degree .
This is the upper limit which the experimental method can safely state not to be exceeded .
Actually the most sensitive instrument can detect no change at all .
Such a finding means-that the large heat-liberation which occurs in muscle must be a part of the contraction process and not of the propagated disturbance .
The validity of this inference is strengthened by another fact which Hill has demonstrated by experiment , that in a given muscle under varying initial loads and with varying degrees of contraction the heat liberated bears a constant ratio to the tension developed .
F. The Importance of the Local Excitatory Process to Hypotheses of the Propagated Disturbance .
With this conclusion we are brought to the end of the first part of our enquiry , the analysis of the phenomena concerned with the propagated disturbance .
We emerge from this analytical maze with some clear gain at least .
As far as hypotheses of propagation are concerned we can rule out of consideration the process of contraction and the liberation of heat .
The refractory state , on the other hand , we have learned to regard as the measure of a recovery process intimately concerned with the restoration of equilibrium after that disturbance which is the basis of propagation .
This recovery process , with its characteristic progress in time , S and its marked prolongation by fall of temperature , will therefore have to be reckoned with in any physico-chemical explanation of the process of propagation .
But perhaps the most significant step of the whole analysis has been that which has failed to give positive results , the attempt to discover how the electric response is related to the change by which propagation is effected .
It is the most significant because it brings home to us most clearly the incompleteness-of that knowledge on which any hypothesis of the propagated disturbance must be based .
But it is just here that we may look for help from another result of our analysis , the recognition of the local excitatory process .
This * Helmholtz , 4 Arch. f. Anat .
u. Physiol. , ' 1848 , p. 158 .
t Eolleston , 4 Journ. Physiol. , ' 1890 , vol. 11 , p. 208 .
J Hill , 4 Journ. Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 43 , p. 433 .
S Cf .
Adrian and Keith Lucas , 4 Journ. Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 44 , p. 114 , fig. 18 .
Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , process , according to the view which I have laid before you , is a change localised at the point of stimulation , produced as the direct consequence of the passage of the stimulating current , and providing when of adequate intensity the conditions within a tissue which are necessary for starting the propagated disturbance .
If this account of the process is correct we cannot doubt the importance of its recognition .
We are able to vary in many ways the character of the stimulus used to provoke this change .
If we are using an electric current we can vary its direction , its strength , its duration , and the time-relations of its rise and fall .
From the conditions which these various factors must fulfil in order to produce an adequate local excitatory change we obtain the data by which to test any hypothesis of the physicochemical nature of that change .
In such an hypothesis , supposing it to have been eventually established , we have a knowledge of the conditions within a tissue which are necessary for producing a propagated disturbance , and so we have fresh data for testing any hypothesis as to the nature of the latter .
Perhaps by investigation along such lines we may he brought to an hypothesis of the propagated disturbance whose acceptance will carry with it a solution of that riddle of the electric response which seems to baffle direct experimental observation . .
In sketching such a possible course I fear that I am outrunning too far the sober limits of accomplished work .
Nevertheless , some progress has been made towards the first step , the physico-chemical identification of the local excitatory process .
In the time that remains to me I shall attempt to show what this progress has been , and to lay before you both the hopeful signs and the very real difficulties which have to be met .
It is an old idea that the essential effect of an exciting current on a nerve or muscle is to produce a polarisation within the tissue .
But the birth of this idea as a definite hypothesis open to verification by quantitative measurement begins with the work of Nernst.* Attracted by the fact that alternating currents of extremely high frequency can be passed through the human body without exciting the nerves or muscles , he was led to test the old suggestion that such currents pass only through the surface layer of an electrolytic conductor .
He found this view untenable , and proposed that the essential condition which an effective exciting current must fulfil might be the production , at some membrane within the excitable tissue , of a definite concentration of certain ions unable to pass the membrane .
This supposition would explain the failure of high frequency currents , because the rapid alternation of direction would carry the ions away from each membrane again before they had sufficient time to reach a considerable * Nernst , 'Gott .
Nach .
Mathem .
physik .
Klasse .
, ' 1899 , p. 104 .
1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and .
concentration .
There were available at this time the experimental measurements made by many physiologists upon the relation between the minimal effective strength of an exciting current and its duration , rate of rise , and rate of alternation .
Nernst* worked out the mathematical consequences of his supposition as far as these relations were concerned , and proceeded to compare the calculated values with those observed in actual experiment .
We shall miss the whole meaning of Nernst 's work , and shall attribute to it errors which it did not contain , if we do not set clearly before us from the beginning the limitations which he consciously made in his mathematical treatment of the question .
Speaking of his theory he says , f " It is limited to stimuli whose duration does not exceed a certain value ; probably , however , divergence will presently be found also in cases where the action of the stimulus extends only over an excessively short period of time .
" In accordance with this Nernst found , as have others who have applied his formulae to experimental observations , that the agreement between calculated and observed values of an exciting current is good only for currents whose duration falls within a limited range .
For example , his theory leads to the prediction that single exciting currents of variable duration will just suffice to excite if the product of their strength and the square root of their duration is -kept constant ; in practice it is observed that for durations above or below a certain range the strength of the current must be considerably greater than the formula would indicate .
Some physiologists have seen in this fact a reason for rejecting Nernst 's work . !
It must , however , be remembered that Nernst was conscious of the intervention of disturbing factors , particularly where currents of long duration were used , and did actually discuss the nature of those factors , though he did not include them in his mathematical treatment .
I hold still to the opinion which I expressed in 1908 , S that the hypothesis is of heuristic value to say the least , and that our first concern should be to gain further knowledge of the disturbing factors .
Accordingly I shall now lay before you , as far as I am able to see them , the points in which Nernst 's hypothesis is incomplete , and shall then consider such amendments or extensions of the hypothesis as have been proposed , and the lines along which future work is suggested .
* Nernst and Barratt , ' Zeitschr .
f. Electrochem .
, ' 1904 , vol. 10 , p. 664 ; Nernst , * Arch , f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1908 , vol. 122 , p. 275 .
+ Nernst , ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1908 , vol. 122 , p. 310 .
t Einthoven , ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1900 , vol. 82 , p. 101 ; Wertheim-Salamonson , ibid. , 1905 , vol. 106 , p. 120 ; Hoorweg , ibid. , 1908 , vol. 124 , p. 511 ; Hermann , ibid. , 1909 , vol. 127 , p. 208 .
S Keith Lucas , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1908 , vol. 37 , p. 477 .
Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , .
There are four main difficulties in the simple hypothesis that the concentration of ions has to reach a certain definite value at a membrane which the ions cannot pass .
The first of these is that of which I have already spoken , that the mathematical consequences of the hypothesis in the simple-form worked out by Nernst are at variance with the behaviour of currents of long duration .
The second is that no account is given of the well-known physiological observation that a current rising to its full value up a gradient of less than a certain steepness will never excite , no matter what the value it ultimately reaches .
The third is that the hypothesis in its simple form doea not forecast one of the most fundamental facts of electric excitation , namely , , the occurrence of the excitation at the cathode when the current is made , and at the anode when it is broken .
The fourth is that we have to postulate membranes whose location in the tissue we do not know .
These points I shall deal with singly as far as that is possible , but in several cases they seem to dovetail into one another , being probably expressions of a common property of the tissues .
The failure of Nernst'a formula in the case of single currents of long duration expresses itself in the fact that , whereas if the product of the current strength and the square root of its duration is to remain constant the current strength should always diminish when the duration is increased , in actual practice it is found that , beyond a certain value of the duration , the current strength remains constant no matter how far its duration is increased .
This feature of Nernst 's formula , to which many physiologists have devoted criticism , is , as he himself stated with all clearness , * merely the consequence of the assumption , made in the mathematical reasoning , that the two membranes at which ions of opposite sign are concentrated are at a distance from one another which may be regarded as infinite .
This assumption was a perfectly legitimate simplification when the exciting currents under consideration were only those of very short duration , because in such short times the effect of the proximity of the two membranes\#151 ; namely , the steep gradient of concentration of ions in the solution between the membranes , and the consequent tendency to equalise the concentrations by diffusion\#151 ; would not make itself felt .
For longer durations of current , Nernst pointed out that , of course , this factor would come in , and would prevent the strength of the exciting current from falling indefinitely with great increase of its duration , Hillf has since worked out Nernst 's hypothesis with a view to currents of longer duration than those contemplated by Nernst , and has been therefore obliged to take account of the distance between the membranes .
His results show that a * Nernst , loc. cit. , pp. 279 , 280 .
t Hill , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 40 , p. 190 , 1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and Muscle .
formula can be deduced in this way , which certainly does fit the observed facts of excitation by long currents .
On this count , then , there is nothing to be said against Eernst 's hypothesis .
It was worked out by E'ernst for stimuli of a limited range of duration , and simplifications were therefore made which applied only within those limits .
That the formulae so deduced are not found to apply outside those limits can hardly be used , as some physiologists have used it , as an argument against the validity of the hypothesis .
Physiologists were naturally anxious that any hypothesis should take account of the features of excitation by long currents , because these are of particular interest in relation to the differences between different excitable tissues .
For example , Lapicque* and If had found that various excitable tissues could be differentiated by the fact that the duration at which the exciting current first reached a constant minimum value was longer for some tissues and shorter for others .
The physical meaning of this difference was a point of obvious interest in the evolutionary history of the excitable tissues .
But the absence of these facts from Eernst 's formula was not to be set down to a failure of his hypothesis , whose consequences had simply not been worked out for the current durations with which we had dealt .
We may turn , therefore , to the second of the points which I have mentioned , the failure of slowly rising currents to excite .
Eernst fully realised the point and suggested that the failure probably arose from a chemical change , produced by the ions , and proceeding at such a rate as not to be noticeable when the concentration was completed quickly .\#163 ; He went so far as to set down in an equation the way in which the increase of the necessary concentration of ions might be related to the rate at which the concentration was produced and to the nature of the tissue used .
Eaturally this disturbing factor was not embodied in the treatment of currents of short duration , because both theory and experiment indicate that for such currents it is negligible . !
However , Hill|| has since worked out the consequences of a supposition which is practically that originally offered by Eernst , and his conclusion is that though the general facts of observation are predicted , it is the experimental data which are not yet of a kind to allow of the comparison of observed and calculated values .
So far then it seems that the suggestions originally made by Eernst do offer * Lapicque , 'C .
R Acad. Sc. , ' 1903 , vol. 136 , p. 1147 ; 1905 , vol. 140 , p. 801 ; 'C .
R Soc. Biol. , ' 1903 , vol. 55 , p. 445 and p. 753 ; 1905 , vol. 57 , p. 501 .
+ Keith Lucas , 4 Journ. Physiol. , ' 1907 , vol. 35 , p. 310 ; 1907 , vol. 36 , p. 113 .
\ Nernst , loc. cit. , pp. 280 , 281 .
S Cf .
Gildemeister , 4 Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1904 , vol. 101 , p. 203 ; Keith Lucas , Joum .
Physiol. , ' 1907 , vol. 36 , p. 273 .
|| Hill , loc. cit. , p. 203 .
VOL. LXXXV.\#151 ; B. 2 0 Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , a possible explanation of the observed facts of long and of slowly increasing currents .
But we must not overlook the consequence , that the original simple hypothesis has become profoundly modified .
Instead of the constant concentration of ions which sufficed to explain the facts of excitation by short currents , we now postulate a concentration which must be greater the more slowly it is produced .
And we are further burdened with a chemical change produced by the ions , and constituting the necessary condition for the initiation of a propagated disturbance .
Also the distance between the membranes now enters as a factor of importance , and this involves a fresh difficulty , to which I shall return when I come to speak of the location of the membranes .
Several suggestions have been made in the attempt to escape from these complications .
Hill* proposed a possible partial permeability of the membranes , which might serve to reduce the concentration of the ions by leakage .
This condition could not be treated mathematically , and is also open to another objection , of which I am about to speak , that it offers no help towards the understanding of the occurrence of excitation at the anode when the exciting current is broken .
Lapicquef looked for a solution in the modification of Nernst 's fundamental hypothesis .
He postulated as the conditions of excitation first a constant difference , and later a constant ratio , between the concentrations at two points unequally distant from the membranes .
It seems doubtful whether this hypothesis does really account for the failure of slowly increasing currents .
Hill found that it would predict the failure of such currents only if of such strength that they could not have excited in any case .
Lapicque and Petetin are unable to confirm this conclusion in their more recent work .
But in any case it does not appear that the hypothesis is a real advance on Nernst 's , since it leaves the question of the anodic excitation still untouched .
If we must admit a complication of the hypothesis in order to explain the failure of slowly increasing currents , the advantage will obviously be on the side of such a postulate as will explain also the anodic excitation .
This , as we shall see , Nernst 's suggestion does achieve .
The anodic excitation on opening an exciting current is one of the most significant facts in the whole of our knowledge of excitation .
It has received very little attention from critics of Nernst 's hypothesis , probably because it is so old and well established as to have become less interesting than quantitative relations more recently investigated .
Yet it is a fact which we clearly shall not explain if we postulate , as the condition which an exciting agent * Hill , loc. tit .
, p. 208 .
t Lapicque , 'Joum .
de Physiol. , ' 1908 , vol. 10 , p. 601 ; 1909 , vol. 11 , p. 1009 ; Lapicque and Petetin , ibid. , 1910 , vol. 12 , p. 696 .
1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and .
519 must fulfil , merely the production of a certain concentration of cations .
When a current ceases to flow the concentration of cations does , of course , rise at the anode by diffusion until their normal concentration is regained , but there is no rise of the concentration of cations at the anode above its normal level .
The one feature which is common to the cathode when the current is-first made , and to the anode when it has just ceased to flow , is an increase of the concentration of cations* above the value which occurred at each point immediately before .
It would seem , therefore , on this showing that the condition to be fulfilled by an exciting agent is either an increase in the concentration of cations above its recent level or some change which such an increase would produce .
Nernstf pointed out that the conception which he had introduced to account for the failure of slowly increasing currents supplied just this need .
HillJ dealt with the same point , perhaps even more explicitly , but it seems that the explanations which they offered are fundamentally the same .
In both cases the diminished concentration of cations produced at the anode during passage of the current leads the reversible chemical combination between the ions and the postulated substance to take up a new equilibrium .
When the current ceases to flow the compound is suddenly faced with a concentration of cations greater than that with which it is at the moment in equilibrium .
That is , of course , also the-condition with which it is faced at the cathode when the current begins to flow .
On this supposition , therefore , the conditions at the anode on break of th\amp ; current are brought into line with those which normally occur at the cathode-on make of the current , and if excitation is to occur at the one it should be-expected at the other also .
As far as I am aware , this supposition is the only one which has been offered up to now as a common solution of these two fundamental facts of excitation , the failure of progressive currents and the excitation at the anode .
The postulate that the concentrated ions are concerned in a reversible chemical change may appear , as I have suggested , an additional burden on the hypothesis , but if their concentration is to be the condition which an exciting current has to fulfil , we must suppose that they initiate some change dependent on their concentration , and it may be necessary that we should at this stage include the nature of that change as part of the whole hypothesis .
To say that the supposition now before us is or is not satisfactory is at present impossible .
Such a decision must rest with quantitative experimental work which has not yet been done ; the mere qualitative explanation * Or , of course , decrease in the concentration of anions .
+ Loc .
cit. , p. 281 .
J Hill , loc. cit. , p. 222 .
Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , of the facts is unable to decide between this supposition and a host of others which could no doubt be made .
I have already recalled how TTill pointed out that the existing experimental work on slowly ' increasing currents has a deficiency which makes it useless for quantitative comparison with values calculated from hypothesis .
In the case of the anodic excitation also , long though the qualitative fact has been known , the quantitative relations necessary for verification have scarcely been touched .
I must therefore leave this side of the problem with no more definite conclusion than this , that the next step must be taken in the laboratory and not in the study .
From the mathematical treatment of the problem experimental workers have learned where the deficiencies of their experimental data lie .
If the mathematical work bore no other fruit than this it would not have been wasted , because whatever hypothesis may ultimately be accepted its verification will demand the same facts .
There is one point which must not be overlooked in connection with the study of progressive currents and of the anodic excitation .
You will have observed that it was only when these phenomena were being studied that we touched upon the problem of the effect which the ions might be supposed to produce , as opposed to the simple question of their concentration .
This fact seems to me to add to the cogency of the reasoning which calls for renewed quantitative experiment upon just these particular phenomena .
I turn now to the last of those difficulties of the Nernst theory which we foresaw , the location of the membranes .
It is an old conception , more than thirty years old at any rate , * that an exciting current produces k polarisation at a membrane forming a sheath to the excitable cell ; and it seems that Nernstf had in view some membrane so situated .
Indeed , it would appear that such an arrangement of the membrane which hinders the passage of the ions must be postulated if we are to explain the localisation of the excitations at make and break of the exciting current in the immediate neighbourhood of the electrodes which serve as cathode and anode respectively .
If , for example , we were to suppose in a nerve or muscle the existence of a series of transverse membranes placed across the direction of passage of the exciting current , excitation would occur on one side of each of these membranes when the current began to flow , on the opposite side when it ceased , and the situation of the electrodes on the tissue would no longer coincide with the point of departure of the propagated disturbance .
This raises an apparent difficulty in the way of part * Hermann , ' Hdbch .
d. Physiol. , ' Leipzig , 1879 , vol. 2 , I , p. 193 .
t Nernst , loc. eit .
, p. 277 .
1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and .
521 of Hill 's treatment of Nernst 's hypothesis .
Hill introduced into the equations the distance between the membranes , as of course he was obliged to do , when dealing with currents of long duration .
From his equations the effect of an alteration of this distance can be foreseen .
Now if , as I have suggested , the postulation of transverse membranes is proved untenable by the known facts of the localisation of the excitatory process , we must , at first sight , suppose that the effective distance between the membranes is really the distance between the electrodes placed on the surface membrane of the cell .
But Lapicque has shown , and some unpublished experiments of my own completely confirm his results , that the constants of the curve relating current strength to current duration , which should be changed by an alteration of the distance between the membranes , are nob changed when the distance between the exciting electrodes is varied by a large amount .
This point needs to be cleared up , but further discussion of it at the present time would serve no useful purpose .
Apparently , then , the hypothesis requires a sheath membrane impermeable to certain ions .
What evidence is there to support or to defeat such a supposition ?
Work on the osmotic phenomena of cells is not wholly convincing on this point .
For example , that of Overton* on the permeability of muscle fibres certainly gives evidence of the presence of membranes only slightly permeable to simple ions , but the location of such membranes is rather a matter of general probability than of demonstration .
The bulk of the evidence which really bears upon our problem comes from work on the electric phenomena of the excitable tissues .
Ostwaldf seems to have been the first to suggest that the presence of membranes permeable only to certain ions might be the determining factor in producing differences in the concentration of ions within and without the excitable cell ; such differences of potential might be the source of the electric phenomena observed .
CybulskiJ also pointed out that the electric phenomena of injured excitable cells would result , if there were normally a permanent difference of potential between the inside and the outside of the cell .
More recently he has returned to the problem , S and , though postulating also additional sources of electromotive force , still gives to the existence of the permanent polarisation at a surface membrane the chief part in the electromotive phenomena .
He constructs , in fact , with an artificial semi-permeable membrane a model polarised cell , which yields just such electromotive * * * S * Overton , ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1902 , vol. 92 , p. 115 .
t Ostwald , ' Zeitschr .
f. physik .
Chemie , ' 1890 , vol. 6 , p. 71 .
J Cybulski , 'Bullet , internal ; , de l'Acad .
des Sciences de Cracovie , ' 1898 , p. 231 .
S Cybulski , 'Arch , internat .
de Physiol. , ' 1912 , vol. 11 , p. 418 .
Mr. K. Lucas .
[ June 6 , phenomena as can be observed in an injured nerve or muscle .
Bernstein* measured the temperature coefficient of the electromotive phenomena in nerves and muscles , and found evidence that concentration cells formed the source of the electric phenomena observed .
He put forward as the most probable origin of the concentration cell the presence of a surface providing a sheath to the cell relatively impermeable to ions of one sign , and the consequent formation of an electric double layer .
Briiningsf also dealt with the localisation of the electromotive force of excitable cells , and reached by a process of exclusion the position that the surface of the cell is permanently polarised owing to the existence there of a membrane relatively impermeable to some ions .
The facts on which he relied were these : that with rare exceptions concentration cells consisting of solutions of electrolytes cannot give closed circuits capable of being connected in series so as to sum their electromotive forces without metallic conductors , unless they arise from the presence of membranes of selective permeability to the ions present ; that the electromotive force obtained without membranes would be less than that actually found ; and that excitable cells can be polarised and also show osmotic phenomena .
It is true that we do not find anywhere in this work an actual demonstration that such a membrane or surface as the hypothesis of Nernst would postulate is positively located as a sheath to the excitable cell .
The .evidence is rather that not only for the local excitation process , but also for the electric response , the postulation of a membrane so located seems at present to offer the simplest account of the facts observed .
This fact in itself is significant , for if we are to find the key to the electric phenomena .of the excitable tissues in the presence of polarised membranes or surfaces , it does seem probable , quite apart from Nernst 's specific hypothesis , that the same membranes should be concerned both in the electric response which accompanies the propagated disturbance and in the local excitatory .change by which the latter is started .
At the same time , we must not forget the indirect nature of the evidence on which the existence of such membranes is founded .
We need , perhaps , to.look very far into the future before we shall see the present histology of the cell amplified by that new histology whose duty it will be to locate within the cell surfaces of physicochemical importance .
Of those difficulties then which we foresaw in the first review of Nernst s hypothesis , the want of agreement between calculated and observed values where long currents are used cannot be said to have any weight , until it shall * Bernstein , ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1902 , vol. 92 , p. 521 .
t Brunings , 'Arch .
f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1907 , vol. 117 , p. 409 .
1912 .
] The Process of Excitation in Nerve and Muscle .
523 be found that formulae based on mathematical reasoning intended to cover the case of such currents shall also fail .
In the same category we must probably place the question of condenser discharges and alternating currents .
Into these cases , though much work has been devoted to them , I have found it impossible to enter without prolonging this discussion beyond all legitimate bounds .
The problem of slowly increasing currents and of the anodic excitation prove , however , to be on a different footing .
They not only call for the postulation of a disturbing factor which need not enter into the other cases , but are at present so weak in quantitative experimental work as to render the verification of any hypothesis quite impossible .
And lastly the location of the membranes is a difficulty which has scarcely yet been faced .
If in this account I seem to have laid stress rather on the difficulties which stand in the way of the hypothesis than on the measure of success which it has already achieved , it is because I believe that by such treatment we may best gain from the hypothesis the undoubted help which it has to offer , even in its present stage of incompleteness .
To disregard its difficulties would be to reject the guidance which it can give to future experimental work .
With this I reach the end of the story which it has been my endeavour to lay before you .
I am very conscious that within the compass of this lecture I have been able to trace out but one of the many lines of work which are converging towards an ultimate solution of the central problem , the physicochemical identification of the nervous impulse .
In the investigation of the colloidal state , to take but one example , there is much done already and much more which needs to be done before even the formulation of a definite hypothesis can begin .
And yet even in the limited range of facts which I have tried to recount I find a conviction that we can no longer repeat truthfully the words of Biedermann which I have quoted .
I do not find that we are now as far as ever from an understanding of the intimate nature of the nervous impulse .
If I have been able at all to make my meaning clear , you will have realised that we may now claim to have passed through the first phase of ignorance , in which we merely admitted that we did not know , and to have reached the second phase of ignorance , in which we are recognising what precisely are the points on which our want of knowledge is most profound .
In treating of the analysis of the complex of phenomena involved in excitation and conduction I found it necessary to lay stress upon particular defects of our experimental knowledge .
And again when the hypothesis of Nernst was before us it was with its special difficulties rather than its achievements that we were occupied .
Its value for the purpose of immediate work proved in fact to lie largely in its detection of specific points of weakness in our experimental data .
The 524 The Process of Excitation in Nerve and Muscle .
very fact that we have been concerned so largely with the gaps in our knowledge is , I believe , a hopeful sign .
Perhaps it is another sign of the same progress that we no longer hope to capture the nervous impulse by storm , but have set persistent siege to its outworks .
It is because the outworks show signs of yielding that we are a little nearer to understanding the nervous impulse , though we have as yet formulated no hypothesis of its intimate nature .
In our analysis of the phenomena concerned with propagation we did , in spite of conspicuous difficulties , find that there was a clear definition of the range of phenomena which must be taken into account .
Nor must we overlook the importance of that step which led us to recognise the local excitatory process .
In the physico-chemical identification of that process there seems to lie before us the next stage of our progress .
In Nemst 's hypothesis of the nature of local excitation it is my belief that we have a means of attack which is quite invaluable .
It is not a complete theory , ready , or even approximately ready , for acceptance , but .
it is an indispensable guide to the strengtheniDg of our experimental data , and so to the ultimate elaboration of an hypothesis which shall be free from those difficulties which are at present so obvious .
Our concern in the immediate future must be with quantitative experimental work .
The ultimate hypothesis to which such work shall lead may perhaps be very near to that which Nernst has stated .
On that point it would be idle to speak at present .
However that may be , when a wholly satisfactory theory of the local excitatory process is in our hands we shall have a new weapon of attack upon the physico-chemical nature of the nervous impulse .
And it is not only in this preliminary work on the local excitatory process that the hope of new progress springs from a closer definition of our ignorance .
In direct work upon the central problem of the propagated disturbance the same is true .
I have tried to show you how , in our work upon the phenomena of propagation , we have been hampered because we could get no quantitative measure of that disturbance , and I have attempted to discuss the possibility of obtaining such a measure in the future .
We shall have made some progress to-day if we have done no more than realise the importance of that gap in our knowledge .
For whenever the time shall come for the formulation of definite hypotheses of the propagated disturbance , it can hardly be doubted that the work of verification will rest in large measure , as it does in the case of every scientific hypothesis , on the comparison of calculated inferences with the results of quantitative measurement .

