1901 .
] Effect of Mercury Vapour on the S 25 Description of Stations .
Place .
Bank of river .
Observations made .
Omdurman , 200 metres south of steamer workshops Kawa ( lat. 13 ' 55 ' ) Left Declination .
Dip .
Horizontal force .
\gt ; \gt ; Horizontal force .
Groz Abu Grom a ( lat. 13 ' 23 ' ) Right Dip .
Renk Declination .
6 kilometres up stream of Jebel Ahmed Agha \gt ; \gt ; Declination .
Dip .
Horizontal force .
: 16 Near K^ka ( lat. ' 10 ' 30 ' ) " ... Left \#187 ; \gt ; \gt ; V Right \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; 48 kilometres down stream of Fashoda ( lat. 10 ' 20 ' ) 5 J \gt ; 1 \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; 8 kilometres up stream of mouth of River Sobat , on Bahr el Abyad ) ) Declination .
Horizontal force .
Wood station on Bahr el Abyad , east of mouth of Bahr el Zaraf 12 kilometres Dip .
Horizontal force .
Bahr el Zaraf , 20 kilometres from mouth Left Dip .
Bahr el Jebel , 10 kilometres Sout h of Hellet Nuer ( lat. 8 ' 9 ' 30 " ) Kenisa ( lat. 6 ' 46 ' 0 " ) Right \gt ; \gt ; Declination .
Horizontal force .
Declination .
Dip .
Horizontal force .
W^ood station , south of Bor on Bahr el Jebel ( lat. 6 ' 5 ' ) Wood station , south of Kiro on Bahr el Jebel ( lat. 5 ' 15 ' ) Dip .
Horizontal force .
)\gt ; " Note on the Effect of Mercury Vapour on the Spectrum of Helium .
" By Professor J. Norman Collie , F.B.S. Eeceived June 3 , \#151 ; Head June 19 , 1902 .
Some years ago the author , in conjunction with Professor Kamsay , published the results of some experiments relating to the visibility of the spectrum of one gas in presence of another.* Since then some experiments have been made on the effect of mercury vapour ( when present in considerable quantity ) on the spectrum of helium in an ordinary Pliicker 's tube , under the influence of the electric discharge from an induction coil .
When the spectrum-of helium is examined in an ordinary Plucker 's tube , it appears to be a simple one consisting of only eight lines\#151 ; two red , one yellow , three green , one blue , and one violet .
The spectrum , however , of the negative glow is much more com- # ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 59 , p. 2C2 .
26 Effect of Mercury Vapour on the Spectrum of Helium .
[ June 3 , plicated , a large number of other and fainter lines appearing as well .
If mercury vapour be introduced into such a tube filled with helium at from 2\#151 ; 5 mm. pressure , the first change noticed is the simplification of the spectrum of this negative glow ; and at the same time three of the helium lines disappear from the spectrum of the negative glow , the red 7065 , the blue 4713 , and the violet 4472 , whilst the yellow 5876 becomes very feeble .
In the orange part of the spectrum a brilliant new line can now be seen , namely , the mercury line 6151 , a line which as a rule does not appear in a Pliicker 's tube containing mercury vapour when an electric discharge from an induction coil is passed through it .
The presence of the orange line of mercury is of interest , as other gases , argon , krypton , hydrogen , \amp ; c. , mixed with mercury vapour , when examined under the same conditions fail to give it .
Whether this orange line is shown in a neon tube where mercury vapour is present is difficult to say , as one of the bright orange lines of neon almost coincides with it.* Besides this alteration of the helium spectrum at the negative electrode another curious change can be observed , if a piece of tubing ( whose internal diameter is about 4 mm. ) be introduced into the centre portion of the Pliicker 's tube .
The spectrum of the gas in this central portion invariably consists of the mercury lines in the yellow , green , and violet , together with one and one only of the helium lines , namely , the green line 4922 .
This seems to be a most delicate test for minute traces of helium in other gases , and this line can be easily seen when no other helium lines can be detected elsewhere in the tube .
A large excess of mercury vapour will also produce the same result in the spectrum of the glowing vapour in the capillary bore tube .
Thus in the same Pliicker 's tube , containing helium and mercury vapour , helium may be made to yield three distinct spectra:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) In the narrow bore capillary portion the full spectrum of eight lines .
( 2 .
) At the negative electrode , three lines disappear , one red , one blue , one violet , and the yellow line becomes very faint .
( 3 .
) In the wider bore central portion only one green line is visible .
Of course the mercury spectrum is visible in all portions , but at the negative electrode the orange mercury line becomes the most brilliant .
Another interesting fact is the great purity of the spectrum .
In every case there is a marked absence of light between the lines .
Bunge and Paschen pointed out in 1895f that the helium spectrum seemed to belong to two systems .
The lines which persist and those which disappear in the negative * The author has to thank Professor Ramsay for kindly helping him and for supplying the rare gases neon and krypton for these experiments .
f ' Phil. Mag. , ' vol. 40 , p. 297 .
1902 .
] Seed-fungus of Lolimn temulentum , L. , the Darnel .
27 glow coincide with these two systems .
For all those lines which disappear in the negative glow , 7065 , 4713 , 4472 , and the yellow line 5876 which nearly does so , belong to that system which , according to Rung and Paschen , is due to the gas helium ; whilst these which can be seen at the negative glow with their full brilliance , 6677 , 5016 , and 4922 , belong to the second system .
This differentiation of the helium spectrum brought about by the presence of mercury vapour might at first sight appear as a confirmation of the idea of Rung and Paschen that helium is a mixed gas , consisting of two different elements .
But taken in conjunction with the fact that the spectra of argon , neon , and krypton are all altered by the same treatment , no reliance necessarily can be placed on the argument .
In conclusion it is worth while pointing out that a helium-mercury tube containing the merest trace of hydrogen should be of value as a standard tube for spectroscopic measurements .
For it contains fourteen standard lines , amongst them ( C and F ) .
Moreover all these lines are of brilliance ten , very equally spaced from the extreme red to the violet , and with dark spaces between them .
He Red 7065 Hg Green 5461 He Red 6677 He Green 5016 H Red 6563 C He Green 4922 Hg Orange 6151 H Green 4861 F He Yellow 5876 He Blue 4713 Hg Yellow 5790 He Violet 4472 Hg Yellow 5769 Hg Violet 4359 " The Seed-fungus of Loliumtemulentum , L. , the Darnel .
" By E. M. Freeman , M.S. , University of Minnesota .
Communicated by Professor Marshall Ward , F.E.S. Received June 6 \#151 ; Read June 19 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) Darnel ( Lolium temulentum , L. ) has been known since Roman times for the poisonous properties of its grain .
It was not , however , until 1898 that the presence of an often considerable layer of hyphse was discovered just exterior to the aleurone layer of the grain ; to the action of this fungus-layer the poisonous properties are presumably due.* Nothing had hitherto been known regarding the method of # How far ergot and other fungi may be concerned is a disputed point.\#151 ; [ June 24 .
]

