II .
" Reply of the President and Council of the Royal Society to an application from the Lords of the Committee of Privy Council for Trade , on the subject of Marine Meteorological Observations .
" [ This Letter was communicated to the Society in pursuance of a resolution of the Council .
The Secretary explained that it had been drawn up by the Treasurer , Colonel Sabine , and submitted , before final adoption by the Council , to several Fellows of the Society specially conversant with the subjects to which it refers .
] Royal Society , Somerset louse , February 22 , 1855 .
SIR , In the month of June last , the Lords of the Committee of the Privy Council for Trade caused a letter to be addressed to the President and Council of the Royal Society , acquainting them that their Lordships were about to submit to Parliament an estimate for an Office for the Discussion of the Observations on Meteorology , to be made at sea in all parts of the globe , in conformity with the recommendation of a conference held at Brussels in 1853 ; and that they were about to construct a set of forms for the use of that Office , in which they proposed to publish from time to time and to circulate such statistical results obtained by means of the observations referred to , as might be considered most desirable by men learned in the science of Meteorology , in addition to such other information as might be required for the purposes of Navigation .
Before doing so , however , their Lordships were desirous of having the opinion of the Royal Society , as to what were the great desiderata in Meteorological science ; and as to the forms which may be best calculated to exhibit the great atmospheric laws which it may be most desirable to develope .
Their Lordships further state , that as it may possibly happen that observations on land upon an extended scale may hereafter be made and discussed in the same Office , it is desirable that the reply of the Royal Society should keep in view , and provide for such a contingency .
Deeply impressed with a sense of the magnitude and importance of the work which has been thus undertaken by Her Majesty 's Government and confided to the Board of Trade , and fully appreciating the honour of being consulted , and the responsibility of the reply which they are called upon to make ; -considering also that by including the contingency of land observations , the inquiry is , in fact , co-extensive with the requirements of Meteorology over all accessible parts of the earth 's surface , the President and Council of the Royal Society deemed it advisable , before making their reply , to obtain the opinion of those amongst their foreign members who are known as distinguished cultivators of Meteorological science , as well as of others in foreign countries , who either hold offices connected with the advancement of Meteorology , or have otherwise devoted themselves to this branch of science .
A circular was accordingly addressed to several gentlemen whose names were transmitted to the Board of Trade in June last , containing a copy of the communication from the Board of Trade , and a request to be favoured with any suggestions which might aid Her Majesty 's Government in an undertaking which was obviously one of general concernment .
Replies in some degree of detail have been received from five of these gentlemen * , copies of which are herewith transmitted .
The President and Council are glad to avail themselves of this opportunity of expressing their acknowledgements to these gentlemen , and more particularly to Professor Dove , Director of the Meteorological Establishments and Institutions in Prussia , whose zeal for the advancement of Meteorology induced him to repair personally to England , and to join himself to the Committee by whom the present reply has beeD prepared .
Those who are most familiar with the labours and writings of this eminent meteorologist will best be able to appreciate the value of his co-operation .
The President and Council have considered it as the most convenient course to divide their reply under the different heads into which the subject naturally branches .
But before they proceed to treat of these , they wish to remark generally , that one of the chief impediments to the advancement of Meteorology consists in the very slow progress which is made in the transmission from one country to another of the observations and discussions on which , under the fostering aid of different Governments , so much labour is bestowed in Europe and America ; and they would therefore recommend that such steps as may appear desirable should be taken by Her Majesty 's Government , to promote and facilitate the mutual interchange of Meteorological publications emanating from the Governments of different countries .
Barometer .
It is known that considerable differences , apparently of a permanent character , are found to exist in the mean barometric pressure in different places ; and that the periodical variations in the pressure in different months and seasons at the same place , are very different in different parts of the globe , both as respects period and amount ; insomuch that in extreme cases , the variations have even opposite features in regard to period , in places situated in the same hemisphere and at equal distances from the equator .
For the purpose of extending our knowledge of the facts of these departures from the state of equilibrium , and of more fiully investi* Dr. Erman of Berlin ; Dr. Heis of Miinster ; Prof. Kreil of Vienna ; Lieut. Maury of Washington ; and M. Quetelet of Brussels , gating the causes thereof , it is desirable to obtain , by means of barometric observations strictly comparable with each other , and extending over all parts of the globe accessible by land or sea , tables , showing the mean barometric pressure in the year , in each month of the year , and in the four meteorological seasons , -on land , at all stations of observatiori , and at sea , corresponding to the middle points of spaces bounded by geographical latitudes and longitudes , not far distant from each other .
The manner of forming such tables from the marine observations which are now proposed to be made , by collecting together observations of the same mnonth in separate ledgers , each of which should correspond to a geographical space comprised between specified meridians and parallels , and to a particular month , is too obvious to require to be further dwelt upon .
The distances apart of the meridians and parallels will require to be varied in different parts of the globe , so that the magnitudes of the spaces which they enclose , and for each of which a table will be formed , may be more circumscribed , when the rapidity of the variation of the particular phenomenon to be elucidated is greatest in regard to geographical space .
Their magnitude will also necessarily vary with the number of observations which it may be possible to collect in each space , inasmuch as it is well known that there are extensive portions of the ocean which are scarcely ever traversed by ships , whilst other portions may be viewed as the highways of a constant traffic .
The strict comparability of observations made in different ships may perhaps be best assured , by limiting the examination of the instruments to comparisons which it is proposed to make at the Kew Observatory , before and after their employment in particular slhips .
From the nature of their construction , the barometers with which Her Majesty 's navy and the mercantile marine are to be supplied are not very liable to derangement , except from such accidents as would destroy them altogether .
Under present arrangements they will all be carefully compared at Kew before they are sent to the Admiralty or to the Board of Trade ; and similar arrangements may easily be made by which they may be returned to Kew for re-examina .
tion at the expiration of each tour of service .
The comparison of barometers when embarked and in use , with standards , or supposed standards , at ports which the vessels may visit , entails many inconveniences , and is in many respects a far less satisfactory method .
rf'he limitation here recommended is not , however , to be understood as applicable in the case of other establishments than Kew , where a special provision may be made for an equally careful and correct examination .
At land stations , in addition to proper measures to assure the correctness of the barometer and consequent comparability of the observations , care should be taken to ascertain by the best possible means ( independently of the barometer itself ) , the height of the station above the level of the sea at some stated locality .
For this purpose the extension of levels for the construction of railroads will often afford facilities .
It may be desirable to indicate some of the localities where the data , which tables such as those which have been spoken of would exhibit , are required for the solution of problems of immediate interest .
10 .
It is known , that , over the Atlantic Ocean , a low mean annual pressure exists near the equator , and a high pressure at the north and south borders of the torrid zone ( 23 ?
to 30 ?
north and south latitudes ) ; and it is probable that from similar causes similar phenomena exist over the corresponding latitudes in the Pacific Ocean : the few observations which we possess are in accord with this supposition ; but the extent of space covered by the Pacific is large and the observations are few ; they may be expected to be greatly increased by the means now contemplated .
But it is particularly over the Indian Ocean , both at the equator and at the borders of the torrid zone , that the phenomena of the barometric pressure , not only annual but also monthly , require elucidation by observations .
The Trade-winds , which would prevail generally round the globe if it were wholly covered by a surface of water , are interrupted by the large continental spaces in Asia and Australia , and give place to the phenomena of monsoons , which are the indirect results of the heating action of the sun 's rays on those continental spaces .
These are the causes of that displacement of the trade-winds , and substitution of a current flowing in another direction , which occasion the atmospheric phenomena over the Indian Ocean , and on the north and south sides of that Ocean , to be different from those in corresponding localities over , and on either side of the equator in the Atlantic Ocean , and ( probably generally also ) in the Pacific Ocean .
It is important alike to navigation and to general science to know the limits where the phenomena of the trade-winds give place to those of the monsoons ; and whether any and what variations take place in those limits in different parts of the year .
The barometric variations are intimately connected with the causes of these variations , and require to be knownfor their more perfect elucidation .
The importance , indeed , of a full and complete knowledge of the variations which take place in the limits of the trade-winds generally in both hemispheres , at different seasons of the year , has long been recognized .
On this account , although the present section is headed " .EBarometer , " it may be well to remark here , that it is desirable that the forms supplied to ships should contain headings , calling forth a special record of the latitude and longitude where the trade wind is first met with , and where it is first found to fail .
20 .
The great extent of continental space in Northern Asia causes , by reason of the great heat of the summer and the ascending current produced thereby , a remarkable diminution of atmospheric pressure in the summer months , extending in the north to the Polar Sea , and on the European side as far as Moscow .
Towards the east it is known to include the coasts of China and Japan , but the extent of this great diminution of summer pressure beyond the coasts thus named is not known .
A determination of the monthly variation of the pressure over the adjacent parts of the Pacific Ocean is therefore a desideratum ; and for the same object it is desirable to have a more accurate knowledge than we now possess of the prevailing direction of the wind in different seasons in the vicinity of the coasts of China and Japan .
30 .
With reference to regions or districts of increased or diminished mean annual pressure , it is known that in certain districts in the temperate and polar zones , such as in the vicinity of Cape Horn extending into the anltarctic polar Ocean , and in the vicinity of Iceland , the mean annual barometric pressure is considerably less than the averag , e pressure on the surface of the globe generally ; and that anomalous differences , also of considerable amount , exist in the mean annual pressure in different parts of the arctic ocean .
These all require special attention , with a view to obtain a more perfect knowledge of the facts , in regard to their amount , geographical extension , and variation with the change of seasons , as well as to the elucidation of their causes .
Dry Air and Aqueous Vapour .
The apparently anomalous variations which have been noticed to exist in the mean annual barometric pressure , and in its distribution in the different seasons and months of the year , are also found to exist in each of the two constituent pressuires which conjointly constitute the barometric pressure .
In order to study the problems connected with these departures from a state of equilibrium under their most simple forms , and generally for the true understanding of almost all the great laws of atmospheric change , -it is necessary to have a separate knowledge of the two constituents ( viz. the pressures of the dry air and of the aqueous vapour ) which we are accustomed to measure together by the barometer .
This separate knowledge is obtained by means of the hygrometer , which determines the elasticity of the vapour , and leads to the determination of that of the dry air , by enabling us to deduct the elasticity of the vapour from that of the whole barometric pressure .
It is therefore extremely desirable that tables , similar to those recommended under the preceding head of the barometer , should be formed at every land station , and over the ocean at the centres of geographical spaces bounded by certain values of latitude and longitude , for the annual , mont/ lie , and season pressures , -1 .
Of the aqueous vapour ; and 2 .
Of the dry air ; each considered separately .
Each of the said geographical spaces will require its appropriate ledger for each of the twelve months .
It may be desirable to notice one or two of the problems connected with extensive and important atmospherical laws which may be materially assisted by such tables .
10 .
By the operation of causes which are too well-known to require explanation here , the dry air should always have a minimum pressure in the hottest months of the year .
But we know that there are places where the contrary prevails , namely , that the pressure of the dry air is greater in summer than in winter .
We also know that when comparison is made between places in the same latitude , and having the same , or very nearly the same , differences of temperature in summer and in winter , the differences between the summer and winter pressures of the dry air are found to be subject to many remarkable anomalies .
The variations in the pressure of the dry air do not therefore , as might be at first imagined , depend altogether on the differenlces between the summer and winter temperatures at the places where the variations themselves occur .
The increased pressure in the hottest months appears rather to point to the existence of an overflow of air in the higher regions of the atmosphere from lateral sources ; the statical pressure at the base of the column being increased by the augmentation of the superincumbent mass of air arising from an influx in the upper portion .
Such lateral sources may well be supposed to be due to excessive ascensional currents caused by excessive summer heats in certain places of the globe ( as , for example , in Central Asia ) .
Now the lateral overflow from such sources , traversing in the shape of currents the higher regions of the atmosphere , and encountering the well-known general current flowing from the equator towards the pole , has been recently assigned with considerable probability ( derived from its correspondence with many otherwise anomalous phenomena already known , and which all receive an explanation from such supposition ) to be the original source or primary cause of the r otating storms or cyclones , so well known in the West Indies and in China under the names of hurricanes and typhoons .
A single illustration may be desirable .
Let it be supposed that such an excessive ascensional current exists over the greatly heated parts of Asia and Africa in the northern tropical zone , -giving rise , in the continuation of the same zone over the Atlantic Ocean , to a lateral current in the upper regions ; this would then be a current prevailing in those regions from east to west : and it would encounter over the Atlantic Ocean the well-known upper current proceeding from the equator towards the pole , which is a current from the south-west .
An easterly current impinlging on a south-west current may give rise , by well-known laws , to a rotatory motion in the atmosphere , of which the direction may be the same as that which characterises the cyclones of the northern hemisphere .
To test the accuracy of this explanation , we desire to be acquainted with the variations which the mean pressure of the dry air undergoes in the different seasons in the part of the globe , where , according to this explanation , considerable variations having particular characters ought to be found .
20 .
We have named one of the exljlanations which have been recently offered of the primary cause of the northern cyclones .
Another mode of explanation has been proposed , by assuming the condensation of large quantities of vapour , and the consequent influx of air to supply the place .
In such case the phenomena are to be tested in considerable measure by the variations which the other constituent of the barometric pressure , namely , the aqueous vapour , undergoes .
30 .
The surface of sea in the southern hemisphere much exceeds that in the northern hemisphere .
It is therefore probable that at the season when the sun is over the southern hemisphere , evaporation over the whole surface of the globe is more considerable than in the opposite season when the sun is over the northern hemisphere .
Supposing the pressure of the dry air to be a constant , the difference of evaporation in the two seasonis may thus produce for the whole globe an annual barometric variation , the aggregate barometric pressure over the whole surface being highest during the northern winter .
The separation of the barometric pressure into its two constituent pressures would give direct and conclusive evidence of the cause to which such a barometric variation should be ascribed .
It would also follow , that evaporation being greatest in the south , and condensation greatest in the north , the water which proceeds from south to north in a state of vapour , would have to return to the south in a liquid state , and might possibly exert some discernible influence on the currents of the ocean .
T'he tests by which the truth of the suppositions thus advanced may be determnined , are the variations of the mneteorological elements in different seasons and months , determined by methods and instruments strictly comparable with each other , and arranged in such tables as have been suggested .
A still more direct test would indeed be furnished by the fact ( if it could be ascertained ) , that the quanitity of rain which falls in the northern is greater than that which falls in the southerni hemisphere ; and by examining its distribution inlto the different months and seasons of its occurrence .
Data for such conclusions are as yet very insufficient ; they should always , however , form a part of the record at all land stations where registers are kept .
In order that all observations of the elasticity of the aqueous vapour may be strictly comparable , it is desirable that all should be computed by the same tables ; those founded upon the experiments of MM .
Regnault and Magnus may be most suitably recommended for this purpose , not only on their general merits , but also as being likely to be most generally adopted by observers in other countries .
T'emperature of the Alir .
Tables of the mean temperature of the air in the year , and in the different months and seasons of the year , at above 1000 stations on the globe , have recently been computed by Professor Dove , and published under the auspices of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin .
This work , -which is a true model of the method in which a great body of meteorological facts , collected by different observers and at different times , should be brought together and coordinated , has conducted , as is well known , to conclusions of very considerable importance in their bearing on climatology , and on the general laws of the distribution of heat on the surface of the globe .
These tables have , however , been formed exclusively from observations made on land .
For the completion of this great work of physical geography , there is yet wanting a similar investigation for the oceanic portion ; and this we may hopefully anticipate as likely to be now accomplished by means of the marine observations about to be undertaken .
In the case of the temperature of the air , as in that of the atmospheric pressure previously adverted to , the centres of geographical spaces bounded by certain latitudes and longitudes will form points of concentration for observations , which may be made within those spaces , not only by the same but also by different ships ; pro'vided that the system be steadily maintained of employing only instruments which shall have been examined , and their intercomparability ascertained , by a competent and responsible Authority ; -and provided that no observations be used but those in which careful attention shall have been given to the precautions which it will be necessary to adopt , for the purpose of obtaining the correct knowledge of the temperature of the external air , amidst the many disturbing influences from heat and moisture so difficult to escape on board ship .
In this respect additional precautions must be used if night observations are to be required , since the ordinary difficulties are necessarily much enhanced by the employment of artificial light .
Amongst the instructions which will be required , perhaps there will be none which will need to be more carefully drawn , than those for obtaining the correct temperature of the external air under the continually varying circumstances that present themselves on board ship .
In regard to land stations , Professor Dove 's tables have shown that data are still pressingly required from the British North American possessions intermediate between the stations of theAreticExpeditions , and those of the United States ; and that the deficiency extends across the whole North American Continent in those latitudes from the Atlantic to the Pacific .
Professor Dove has also indicated as desiderata , observations at the British Military stations in the Mediterranean ( Gibraltar , Malta and Corfu ) , and around the Coasts of Australia and New Zealand : also that hourly observations , continued for at least one year , are particularly required at some one station in the West Indies , to supply the diurnal corrections for existing observations .
Whilst the study of the distribution of heat at the surface of the globe has thus been making progress , in respect to the mean annual temperature in different places , and to its periodical variations in different parts of the year at the same place , the attention of physical geographers has recently been directed ( and with great promise of important results to the material interests of men as well as to general science ) , to the causes of those fluctuations in the temperature , or departures from its mean or normal state at the same place and at the same period of the year , which have received the name of " non-periodic variations .
" It is known that these frequently affect extensive portions of the globe at the same time ; and are generally , if not always , accompanied by a fluctuation of an opposite character , prevailing at the same time in some adjoining but distant region ; so that by the comparison of synchronous observations a progression is traceable , from a locality of maximum increased heat in one region , to one of mrsaximum diminished heat in another region .
For the elucidation of the non-periodic variations even monthly means are insufficient ; and the necessity has been felt of computing the mean temperatures for periods of much shorter duration .
The Meteorological Institutions of those of the European States which have taken the foremost part in the prosecution of meteorology , have in consequence adopted five-day means , as the most suitable intermediate gradation between daily and monthly means : and as an evidence of the conviction which is entertained of the value of the conclusions to which this investigation is likely to lead , it has been considered worth while to undertake the prodigious labour of calculating the five-day means of the most reliable existing observations during a century past .
This work is already far advanced ; and it cannot be too strongly recommended , that at all fixed stations , where observations shall hereafter be made with sufficient care to be worth recording , five-day means may invariably be added to the daily , monthly , and annual means into which the observations are usually collected .
The five-day means should always commence with January 1 , for the purpose of preserving the uniformity at different stations , which is essential for comparison : in leap years , the period which includes the 29th of February will be of six days .
In treating climatology as a science , it is desirable that some correct and convenient mode should be adopted , for computing and expressing the comparative variability to which the temperature in different parts of the globe , and in different parts of the year in the same place , is subject from non-periodic causes .
The probable variability , computed on the same principle as the probable error of each of a number of independent observations , has recently been suggested as furnishing an index " of the probable daily non-periodic variation " at the different seasons of the year ; and its use in this respect has been exemplified by calculations of the -index " from the five-day means of twelve years of observations at Toronto , in Canada ( Phil. Trans. 1853 , Art .
V. ) .
An index of this description is of course of absolute and general application ; supplying the means of comparing the probable variability of the temperature in different seasons at different places ( where the same method of computation is adopted ) as well as at the same place .
It is desirable that this ( or some preferable method if such can be devised for obtaining the same object ) should be adopted by those who may desire to make their observations practically useful for sanitary or agricultural purposes , or for any of the great variety of objects for which climatic peculiarities are required to be known .
Having these three data , viz. the mean annual temperature , -its periodical changes in respect to days , months , and seasons , and the measure of its liability to non-periodic ( or what would commonly be called , irregular ) variations , we may consider that we possess as complete a representation of the climate of any particular place ( so far as temperature is concerned ) , as the present state of our knowledge permits .
It is obvious that much of what has been said under this article is more applicable to land than to sea observations ; but the letter of the Board of Trade , to which this is a reply , requests that both should be contemplated .
Temperature of the Sea , and Investigations regarding Currents .
It is unnecessary to dwell on the practical importance to navigation of a correct knowledge of the currents of the ocean ; their direction , extent , velocity , and the temperature of the surface water relatively to the ordinary ocean temperature in the same latitude ; together with the variations in all these respects which currents experience in different parts of the year , and in different parts of their course .
As the information on these points , which may be expected to follow from the measures adopted by the Board of 'Trade , must necessarily depend in great degree on the intelligence , as well as the interest taken in them by the observers , it is desirable that the instructions to be supplied with the meteorological instruments should contain a b)rief summary of what is already known in regard to the principal oceanic currents ; accompanied by charts on which their supposed limits in different seasons , and the variations in those limits which may have been observed in l)articular years , may be indicated , with notices of the particularities of the temperature of the surface-water by which the presence of the current may be recognised .
Forms will also be required for use in such localities , in which the surface temperatures may be recorded at hourly or half-hourly intervals , with the corresponding geographical positions of the ship , as they may be best inferred from observation and reckoning .
For such localities also it will be necessary that the tables , into which the observations of different ships at different seasons are collected , should have their bounding lines of latitude and longitude brought nearer together than may be required for the ocean at large .
In looking forward to the results which are likely to be obtained by the contemplated marine observations , it is reasonable that those which may bear practic'ally on the interests of navigation should occupy the first place ; but , on the other hand , it would not be easy to over-estimate the advantages to physical geography , of general tables of the surface temperature of the ocean in the different months of the year , exhibiting , as they would do , its normal and its abnormal states , the mean temperature of the different parallels , and the deviations therefrom , whether permanent , periodical , or occasional .
The knowledge which such tables would convey is essentially required for the study of clilmatology as a science .
The degree in which climatic variations extending over large portions of the earth 's surface may be influenced by the variable phenomena of oceanic currents in different years , may perhaps be illustrated by circumstances of known occurrence in the vicinity of our own coasts .
The admirable researches of Major Rennell have shown that in ordinary years , the warin water of the great current known by the name of the Gulf-stream is not found to the east of the meridian of the Azores ; the sea being of ordinary ocean temperature for its latitude at all seasons and in every direction , in the great space comprised between the Azores , and the coasts of Europe and North Africa : but Major Rennell has also shown that on two occasions , viz. in 1776 and in 1821-1822 , the warm water by which the Gulf-strearn is characterised throughout its whole course ( being several degrees above the ordinary ocean temperature in the same latitude ) , was found to extend across this great expanse of ocean , and in 1776 ( in particular ) was traced ( by Dr. Franklin ) quite home to the coast of Europe .
The presence of a body of unusually heated water , extending for several hundred miles both in latitude and in longitude , and continuing for several weeks , at a season of the year when the prevailing winds blow from that quarter on the coasts of England and France , can scarcely be imagined to be without a considerable influence on the relations of temperature and moisture in those countries .
In accordance with this suppositiori , we find in the Meteorological Journals of the more recent period ( which are more easily accessible ) , that the state of the weather in November and December 1821 and January 1822 was so unusual in the southern parts of Great Britain and in France , as to have excited general observation ; we find it characterised as " most extraordinarily hot , damp , stormy , and oppressive , " that " the gales from the W. and S.W. were almost without intermission , " " the fall of rain was excessive " and " the barometer lower than it had ever been known for 35 years before .
" There can be little doubt that Major Rennell was right in ascribing the unusual extension of the Gulf-stream in particular years to its greater initial velocity , occasioned by a more than ordinary difference in the levels of the Gulf of Mexico and of the Atlantic in the preceding summer .
An unusual height of the Gulf of Mexico at the head of the stream , or an unusual velocity of the stream at its outset in the Strait of Florida , are facts which may admit of being recognised by properly directed attention ; and as these must precede , by many weeks , the arrival of the warm water of the stream at above 3000 miles distance from its outset , and the climatic effects thence resulting , it might be possible to anticipate the occurrence of such unusual seasons upon our coasts .
Much , indeed , may undoubtedly be done towards the increase of our partial acquaintance with the phenomenon of the Gulf-stream , and of its counter currents , by the collectlon and coordination of observations made by casual passages of ships in different years and different seasons across different parts of its course ; but for that full and complete knowledge of all its particulars , which should meet the maritime and scientific requirements of the period in which we live , we must await the disposition of Government to accede to the recommendation , so frequently made to them by the most eminent hydrographical authorities , of a specific survey of the stream by vessels employed for that special service .
What has been recently accomplished by the Government of the United States in this respect , shows both the importance of the inquiry and the great extent of the research ; and lends great weight to the proposition , which has been made to Her Majesty 's Government on the part of the United States , for a joilnt survey of the whole stream by vessels of the two countries .
The establishment of an office under the Board of Trade specially charged with the reduction and coordination of such data may materially facilitate such an undertaking .
Storms or Gales .
It is much to be desired both for the purposes of navigation and for those of general science , that the captains of Her Majesty 's ships and masters of merchant vessels should be correctly and thoroughly instructed in the methods of distinguishing in all cases between the rotatory storms or gales , which are properly called Cyclones , and gales of a more ordinary character , but which are frequently accompanied by a veering of the wind , which under certain circumstances might easily be confounded with the phenomena of Cyclones , though due to a very different cause .
It is recommended therefore that the instructions , proposed to be given to ships supplied with meteorological instruments , should contain clear and simple directions for distinguishing in all cases and under all circumstances between these two kinds of storms ; and that the forms to be issued for recording the meteorological phenomena during great atmospheric disturbances should comprehend a notice of all the particulars which are required for forming a correct judgment in this respect .
Thunder-storms .
It is known that in the high latitudes of the northern and southern hemispheres thunder-storms are almost wholly unknown ; and it is believed that they are of very rare occurrence over the ocean in the middle latitudes when distant from continents .
By a suitable classification and arrangement of the documents which will be henceforward received by the Board of Trade , statistical tables may in process of time be formed , showing the comparative frequency of these phenomena in different parts of the ocean , and in different months of the year .
It is known that there are localities on the globe where , during certain months of the year , thunder-storms may be considered as a periodical phenomenon of daily occurrence .
In the Port Royal Mountains in Jamaica , for example , thunder-storms are said to take place daily about the hour of noon from the middle of November to the middle of April .
It is much to be desired that a full and precise account of such thunder-storms , and of the circumstances in which they appear to originate , should be obtained .
In recording the phenomena of thunder and lightning it is desirable to state the duration of the interval between the flashes of lightning and the thunder which follows .
This may be done by means of a seconds-hand watch , by which the time of the apparition of the flash , and of the commencement ( and of the conclusion also ) of the thunder may be noted .
The interval between the flash , and the comr mencement of the thunder , has been known to vary in different cases , from less than a single second to between 40 and 50 seconds , and even on very rare occasions to exceed 50 seconds .
The two forms of ordinary lightning , viz. zigzaag ( or forked ) lightning , and sheet lightning , should always be distinguished apart ; and particular attention should be given both to the observation and to the record , in the rare cases when zigzag lightning either bifurcates , or returns upwards .
A special notice should not fail to be made when thunder and lightw ning , or either separately , occur in a perfectly cloudless sky .
Wihenl globular lightning ( balls of fire ) are seen , a particular record should be made of all the attendant circumistances .
These phenomena are known to be of the nature of lightning , from the injury they have occasioned in ships and buildings that have been struck by them ; but they differ from ordinary lightning not only by their globular shape , but by the length of time they continue visible , and by their slow motion .
They are said to occur sometimes without the usual accompaniments of a storm , and even with a perfectly serene sky .
Conductors are now so universally employed in ships , that it may seem almost superfluous to remark that , should a ship be struck by lightning , the most circumstantial account will be desirable of the course which the lightning took , and of the injuries it occasioned ; or to remind the seaman that it is always prudent , after such an accident has befallen a ship , to distrust her compasses urntil it has been ascertained that their direction has not been altered .
Accidents occurring on land from lightning will , of course , receive the fullest attention from meteorologists who may be within convenient distance of the spot .
Auroras and Falling Stars .
Auroras are of such rare occurrence in seas frequented by ships engaged in commerce , that it may seem superfluous to give any particular directions for their observation at sea ; and land observatories are already abundantly furnished with such .
It is , of course , desirable that the meteorological reports received from ships should always contain a notice of the time and place where Auroras may be seen , and of any remarkable features that may attract attention .
The letter from Professor Heis , which is one of the foreign communications annexed , indicates the principal points to be attended to in the instructions which it may be desirable to draw up for the observation of " Falling Stars .
" For directions concerrning Halos and Parhelia , a paper by Monsieur Bravais in the 'Annuaire Meteorologique de la France ' for 1851 , contains suggestions which will be found of much value .
Charts of the Magnetic Variation .
Although the variation of the compass does not belong in strictness to the domain of meteorology , it nas been included , with great propriety , amongst the subjects treated of by the Brussels Con-ference , and should not therefore be omitted here .
It is scarcely necessary to remark , that whatever may have been the practice in times past , when the phenomena of the earth 's magnetism were less understood than at present , it should in future be regarded as indispensable , that variation-charts should always be constructed for a particular epoch , and that all parts of the chart should show the variation corresponding to the epoch for which it is constructed .
Such charts should also have , either engraved on the face or attached in some convenient manner , a table , showing the approximate annual rate of the secular change of the variation in the different latitudes and longitudes comprised : so that , by means of this table , the variation taken from the chart for any particular latitude and longitude may be corrected to the year for which it is required , if that should happen to be different from the epochi for which the chart is constructed .
A valuable service would be rendered to this very important branch of hydrography , if , under the authority of the new department of the Board of Trade , variation-charts for the North and South Atlantic Oceans , for the North and South Pacific Oceans , for the Indian Ocean , and for any other localities in which the requirements of navigation might call for them , were published at stated intervals , corrected for the secular change that had taken place since the preceding publication .
Materials would be furnished for this purpose by the observations which are now intended to be made , supposing them to be collected and suitably arranged with proper references to date and to geographical position , and to the original reports in which the results and the data on which they were founded were communicated .
By meains of these observations the tables of approximate correction for secular change might also be altered from time to time as occasion should require , since the rate of secular change itself is not constant .
All observed variations , communicated or employed as data upon which variation-charts may be either constructed or corrected , should be accompanied by other observational data ( the nature of which ought now to be well understood ) , for correcting the observed variation for the error of the compass occasioned by the ship 's iron .
It is also strongly recommended that no observations be received as data for the formation or correction of variation-charts , but such as are accompanied by a detailed statement of the principal elements both of observation and of calculation .
Proper forms should be supplied for this purpose ; or , what is still better , books of blank forms may be supplied , in which the observations themselves may be entered , and the calculation performed by which the results are obtained .
Such books of blank forms would be found extremely useful both for the variation of the needle , and for the chronometrical longitude ; ( as well as for lunar observations , if the practice of lunar observations be not , as there is too much reason to fear it is , almost wholly discontinued ) .
By preparing and issuing books of blank forms suitable for these purposes , and by requesting their return in accompaniment with the other reports to be transmitted to the Board of Trade at the conclusion of a voyage , the groundwork would be laid for the attainment of greatly improved habits of accuracy in practical navigation in the British mercantile marine .
rrhe President and Council are aware that they have not exhausted the subject of this reply in what they have thus directed me to address to you ; but they think that perhaps they have noticed as many points as may be desirable for present attention ; and they desire me to add , that they will be at all times ready to resuime the consideration if required , and to supply any further suggestions which may appear likely to be useful .
I have the honour to be , Sir , Your obedient Servant , W. SHARPEY , To the Secretary of the Lords of the ComSec .
R.S. mittee of Privy Councitfor Trade .

