Some Account of two Mummies of the Egyptian Ibis , one of which was in a remarkably perfect State .
By John Pearson , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 13 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 264 .
] After some general observations on the art of embalming , as it was practised by the ancient Egyptians , and on the various kinds of animals embalmed by them , Mr. Pearson proceeds to give a particular description of the very perfect mummy of an Ibis , which forms the chief subject of the present paper .
This mummy was taken out of the catacombs at Thebes , by the late Major Hayes , in the year 1802 or 1803 .
It was enveloped in cloth , and contained in an earthen jar , similar to those which are found at Saccara .
Upon unrolling the bandage with which the mummy was covered , it was found to consist of strips of cloth , about three inches broad , which were strong and firm .
The first circumvolutions of this cloth separated easily ; but as the work proceeded , they were found to adhere more firmly , and at last were so closely united , that it was necessary to divide them by means of a strong knife .
Each layer of cloth seemed to have been imbued with some bituminous substance in a liquid state ; and the bandages were further tecured by means of thread , in such a manner that the whole mass was rendered firm and coherent ; when the bandage was removed , the bird appeared to be covered with the same kind of bituminous substance that had cemented the strips of cloth .
As much of this substance as could be removed without injuring the bird was now carefully taken off ; and after the labour of several hours , Mr. Pearson succeeded in displaying the whole bird as it had been originally deposited by the embalmer .
The neck of the bird was twisted , so that the vertex of the head lay a little to the left of the sternum .
The bill descended between the feet , and reached to the extremity of the tail .
The feet were bent upwards , and placed one on each side of the head .
The wings were brought close to the sides of the body .
The feathers of the back and wings were white , tipped at their extremities with dark brown .
The tail feathers could not be sufficiently cleared from the bituminous substance , to determine their colour .
From the state of the quills of the wing feathers , it appeared that the bird had attained .
its full growth .
The dimensions of this bird were as follows : inches .
From the termination of the neck to the extremity of the tail ... ... ... ... ... . .
121 Length of the neck ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
6 head and bill ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
8 sternum ... ... ... ... 4 ... . .
4 metatarsal bone ... ... ... ... ... ... 32 Longest toe ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
3 Width at the shoulders ... ... ... ... ... .
4Circumference of the body ... ... ... ... ... .
13 Weight of the whole , 16 ' ounces , Troy .
No particular marks of decay can be perceived in this mummy , although it is probable , Mr. Pearson says , that the greater part of 3000 years has elapsed since it was embalmed .
It was , he thinks , immersed in the bituminous matter , while that matter was in a liquid state ; but that it was not boiled therein , as Grew supposed , is evident , from the feathers not being corrugated , or otherwise materially changed from their natural state .
Mr. Pearson unrolled another mummy of an Ibis , also sent from Thebes by Major Hayes , which appeared to have been embalmed in a different manner .
The cloth of this latter was of a coarser texture ; it had not been so thoroughly imbued with bitumen , nor were the circular bands continued to the body of the bird , which was merely wrapped in several pieces of cloth .
This mummy was in such a state of decay , that no remains of the head or bill could be discovered .
The exterior layer of feathers was in general of a dark colour , some of them tipped with white .
The plumage of the neck and tail was white ; the latter had a tufted appearance .
Whether the two birds here described were what authors have called the white and the black Ibis , Mr. Pearson cannot , he says , presume to determine .
With respect to the mode in which such birds were embalmed , it appears , he thinks , contrary to what is stated by Herodotus to have been the practice in embalming human bodies , that the stomach and intestines were not removed , as upon examining the interior parts of the last-mentioned Ibis , Mr. Pearson met with a soft spongy substance , containing several scarabaei in an imperfect state .
These , he supposes , had been taken as the food of the bird , and were not digested at the time of its death .
He also observes , that as larvae of dermestides and other insects have been detected among the dust and bones of the mummy of an Ibis , it may be presumed that this bird was not always in a fresh state at the time when it was embalmed .

