Part of a Letter from Mr. Peter Derante , Surgeon in Waterford , to Mr. John Douglas , Surgeon , F. R. S concerning the coming off of the Scapula and Head of the Os Humeri , upon a Mortification .
ON the 5th of November , 1713 , One John Fletcher , on board the Neptune of Liverpool , had the Misfortune to break the Radius and Ulna ( of his left Arm ) and their Ends burst thro ' the Skin .
He was immediately dressed by the Surgeon of the Ship with the common Astringents and Bandage ; about five or six Days afterwards I was sent for to go down to Passage to see this Man .
When I came there , I found his Surgeon along with him , who told me , That the Man would do very well , because he was in no pain at all ; however , I desired him to take off the Dressings , and let me look o n't .
Which being done , I found it was black and insensible from his Fingers to his Shoulder , and therefore advised the Extirpation of it immediately , but his Surgeon opposed it ; however , I scarified it in several Places , and very deep , and then applied a warm Dressing .
Next Day the Ship put to Sea , and the poor Creature was sent to Waterford , and committed to my Care .
As soon as I could get my Apparatus ready , I cut off his Arm ( in presence of Dr. Renet , and Mr. ~ an Apothecary ) as high as possible ; then I cauterized the Stump , which was perfectly mortified as high as the Acromion .
Next Day I perceived the Mortification spreading toward the lower Angle of the Scapula , then I rubbed the Edges of the Mortification with armed Probes dipped in a Solution of Argentum Vivum in Aq .
Fort .
which compleatly answered my Intention ; for from that time the Mortification spread no further ; next Dressing I scarified and cauterized all the mortified part , and dressed it S. A. I continued this Method for seventeen or eighteen Days , and then the Sloughs began to separate and cast off daily ; some time afterwards the Scapula began to part from the Os Humeri and Clavicula , and at length came out whole ; I was then put to it what to do about the stump of the Os Humeri , which still adhered to the Pectoralis and Latissimus Dorsi ; but in a little time it also separated and came away , without any Hemorrhage succeeding~ which I expected .
I was afterwards obliged to cut off part of the Clavicula , before I could cicatrize the Wound , which was soon afterwards accomplished .
I have the Scapula and Head of the Os Humeri still in my Custody , and have shown them to many Surgeons and Physicians .
All Waterford is Witness of this Fact , and they called him ever afterwards Three Quarters of a Man .
I am , &amp;c. Waterford , Jan. 1721/ 2 .

