Description of a rare Species of Worm Shells , discovered at an Island lying off the North-west Coast of the Island of Sumatra , in the East Indies .
By J. Griffiths , Esq. Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. Read February 13 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 269 .
] The shells here described were discovered in a small island called Battoo , after a violent earthquake that occurred in the year 1797 .
Upon the receding of the inundation caused by the earthquake , they were seen protruding from a bank of slightly-indurated mud , in a small sheltered bay , surrounded by coral reefs .
They were procured by means of a servant sent by Mr. Griffiths for that purpose , who was very expert in diving , and who stated that he found these shells sticking out of the mud to the extent of ten inches , or even more , and being from one to three fathoms under water .
They were in considerable number , standing in different directions , and separate from each other .
Mr. Griffiths was informed that the shells were filled with a soft gelatinous flesh , and that the animal threw out tentacula , resembling small Actinia , from the two apertures at the apex .
They were easily extracted from their bed , but were all mutilated more or less : this , the author thinks , was occasioned by the earthquake .
The longest of these shells that came into the possession of Mr. Griffiths was five feet four inches in length .
The circumference at the base was nine inches , tapering upwards to two inches and a half .
But others were of very different dimensions .
The large end of the shell is completely closed , and has a rounded appearance : at this part it is very thin .
The small end , or apex , is very brittle , and is divided by a longitudinal septum , which extends downwards eight or ten inches , into two distinct tubes , from whence protrude the tentacula already mentioned .
The substance of the shell has a radiated appearance , and having an outer crust of a pure white colour , and an inside enamel of a yellow tinge .
The external surface is often interrupted by a sudden increase of thickness , which probably indicates the different growths of the shells ; but these interruptions are merely on the outside shell , and do not extend into the radiated substance .
The thickness of these shells varies very much ; so also does their shape , some being nearly straight , others crooked and contorted .
Their internal surface is generally smooth , but is sometimes covered with excrescences resembling tubercles .
There was no indication that the animal had adhered to any part of the shell .
The great length and size of these shells , and the division in the upper part , constitute , in Mr. Griffiths 's opinion , their chief peculiarities .
The radiated appearance of the substance of the shells is such , that they might , in his opinion , be easily mistaken for stalactites .
Mr. Griffiths at first considered these shells as a new genus ; but afterwards , on consulting the works of Rumphius , he found in that author a description of some shells , very similar , but differing by having two long-jointed tubes issuing from their upper part .
These shells were found in shallow water among mangrove-trees .

