]\gt ; lVIessrs .
W. E. Wilson and P. L. Gray .
On the DESCRIPTION OF DIAGRAMS .
The continuous lines represent the curves of the variations in level of the brain surface produced by pressure and otherwise .
The dotted lines represent the height of the blood pressure .
The times in which compression and recoil are measured are noted above the diagrams in seconds .
The enumeration of seconds always commences afresh at the point at which the weight is removed .
Fig. 8 .
grams applied for 1 minute .
This diagram shows typicaly the characters of the excursion and recoil .
Fig. 4 .
60 grams applied for 1 minute .
Between experiments and the brain was allowed to entirely recover its volume , and the animal was then bled to the extent of 150 .
This procedure caused a fan of the brain surface to 3.4 .
Fig. 6 .
Shows a typical curYe when 50 grams are applied for 4 seconds only .
Fig. 6 .
The curves as far as*show the concurrent variations of brain surface and blood pressure under the influence of amyl nitrite .
At*experiment was performed .
Between experiments and the effect of the amyl nitrite was allowed to wear off completely .
20 grams was the weight employed .
Fig. 7 .
( a ) was an experiment upon the normal brain .
( b ) was performed after administration of amyl nitrite .
Weight grams .
Fig. 8 .
( a ) performed with a cannula in one superior cerebral vein .
performed with the opposite superior cerebral also blocked .
grams .
Fig. 9 .
( a ) performed on the normal brain .
( b ) performed with both external and both internal jugulars clamped .
Weight grams .
Fig. grams applied for 6 minutes .
Etherisation diminished at*with a consequent rise of blood pressure .
Fig. 11 .
50 grams applied for 80 seconds to a brain which had undergone considerable previous compression .
Etherisation diminished .
Trachea clamped at On the Telnperature of the Carbons of the Electric Arc ; with a Note on the Temperature of the Sun .
Experiments made at Daramona , Street , Co. Westnleath By W. E. WILSON , M.R.I.A. , and P. L. GRAY , B.Sc. , A.B.C.S. Communicated by G. JOHNSTONE STONY , F.R.S. Received November 14 , \mdash ; Read November 22 , 1894 .
The temperature of the positive pole of the electric arc , which is now generally believed to be the boiling point of carbon , is usually taken , on the authority of Violle , approximately equal to 3500o C. Violle 's method of determining it was as follows:\mdash ; The carbons of the arc were placed horizontally , and the positive pole was so arranged * Violle , 'Jour .
de Phys 3rd Series , vol. 2 , 1893 , p. 545 .
Temperature of the Carbons of the Electric that pieces of its substance could be detached while the arc was passing ; these white-hot pieces fell into a calorimeter , and from the amount of heat given up , the temperature was calculated , assuming the specific heat of carbon at this point to have its theoretical value .
The method does not seem at first sight a very iable one , and Violle states that the result is only to be regarded as an approximation .
The method adopted by the authors of this paper is exactly the same as that which they employed last year in " " Experimental Investigations on the Effective Temperature of the the account of which full descriptions of the apparatus used , \amp ; c. , ars given .
A Brockie-Pell arc lamp was employed in the expcriments , the current being obtained from a dynamo worked by a gas engine .
It would have been preferable for some reasons to have worked the arc off the 26 Epstein accumulators which we had at our disposal , but the current from these was used in heating the platinum strip , and we did not wish to run the cells off too quickly .
Platinoid resistances were inserted in circuit with the arc until it burnt steadily .
The general arrangement of the apparatus is shown matically in Fig. 1 .
FIG. 1 .
is the platinum-strip radiator ( our modification of Joly 's meldometer ) , the dotted line representing the water-jacket which is placed over the strip .
is the meter ; A and are tubes through which radiation can pass to fall on the receiving surfaces within .
The diameter of the aperture a A is accurately known ; as also its distance from the receiving-surface , so that the apparent area of platinum , as seen from the latter , may be calculated .
is the lamp , which is placed inside a wooden box , lined internally with tin-plate , both wood and metal being pierced with small holes opposite to the arc .
A screen , , hangs in front of the box , and contains a small carefully-measured hole , which can be adjusted until the brightest ( or any ) part of he glowing carbons shines directly into the tube B. * Wilson and Gray , 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 18 1894 , Messrs. W. E. Wilson and P. L. Gray .
On the The size of the hole in the screen , and its distance from the radiomicrometer , then give the apparent area of bright carbon as seen from the latter .
The screen is made of copper , and is , really a flat box ( Fig. 2 ) provided with an inlet and an outlet tube , so that a continual stream of water from the ordinary house supply could be kept lning through it\mdash ; a precaution necessary from its to the arc .
In the experiments , a plentiful stream was kept running through this box , and thence on to the water-jacket round the radiator , the supply being sufficient to prevent any perceptible heating of the screen .
A small hole cut in the side of the wooden box enabled us , with the aid of mirrors , to use a pencil of the light of the arc forxeflection from the mirror of the radio-micrometer , thus obviating the necessity of a lime-light , or other bright source , while an incandescent lamp- filament provided us with an extremely sharp band of light on the scale of the radiator .
( A larger and better mirror had been affixed to this since its use in our work on the solar temperature , and this mirror , with an incandescent lamp , gives a band of light with edges so sharp on the " " temperature ] \ldquo ; that it could , if necessary , be read to the tenth of a millimetre , which is beyond our ordinary requirements .
) The theory of the method is very simple ; sentially it is the same as that which applies to the estimation of the effecbive temperature of the sun , without the complications arising from atmospheric absorption , \amp ; c. In the case of the sun , we can only hope to find ( at least at present ) the effective temperature , as we know little of the radiating power of the photospheric substances , in the case of the carbons of the arc , emperature of the arbons of the Electric Arc , .
27 we may assume that we are dealing with a " " black\ldquo ; surface of approximately unit emissive power .
Let then absolute temperature of bare platinum-strip at balancing ratio of emissive power of a black surface to that of the bare metallic surface at this temperature , ratio of the area subtended by the platinum to that subtended by the glowing carbon , at the snrface of the radio-micrometer , and be the " " law of radiabion " " for a black surface , where quantity of radiation as a function of the absolute temperature of the radiating SUl'face .
Then the radiation from the carbon is times the intensity of that from a black surface at a } rature T If the radiatiou from the platinum at the temperature be put then .
Then the adiabion from carbon .
And if required of the carbon , whence may be obtained , when we know ( 1 ) the law of radiation , ( 2 ) the ratio of the emissive powers of bare and blacked platinum .
We go on to discuss these two points together , as the expex.iments on the first give us information on the second .
The Law of Radiation and the Ratio of the Ernissive In our paper already quoted we have given a series of experiments on the radiation from bare platinum at tures up to C. approximately , and we have shown that a simple fourth-power law cxpresses the results very closely , so that for these experiments the " " law of radiation " " is , where absoIute temature of radiating SUl.face , temperature of medium , a constant , and radiation in arbitrary units .
At high temperatures becomes unimportant , and expression simplifies still further to Experiments on a blackened surface are difficuIt to carry out at Messrs. W. E. Wilson and P. L. Gray .
On the anything beyond moderately low temperatures ; we therefore assumed in our former work that the form of the law was the same or a blackened as fo a bright surface , there being good grounds , both theoretical and experimental , for such a belief .
Further investigations , however , indicate that this assumption is not correct , as will be seen from the experiments detailed below .
A series of experiments on the radiation from bare platinum was made first , exactly in the same way as those described in our work of last year , that is to say , the radiation from the platinum at different temperatures was allowed to fall on a radio-micrometer of the ordinary form , the sensibility of which was reduced sufficiently to give a readable deflection at the highest temperature used , the deflection as given by the scale-readings being then taken as proportionaI to radiation .
This proportionality has been shown before to be strictly true for deflections up to and greater than those obtained in these experiments .
The platinum-strip was next blackened on one side with black oxide of copper , was ground very fine , mixed up with methy- spirit , and laid on with a camel's-hair brush ; this , when the iquid had dried off , gave a very good , even , dead-black surface , the emissive power of which may be taken as approximately equal to that of an ideal black surface .
Lampblack , of course , is useless for these experiments , since it burns ofl at .
under C. ; it could only be used if the radiator could be placed in a vacuum , or in an atmosphere having no action on the carbon , for which purpose we are having apparatus specially constructed .
At about C. the black oxide of copper , to suffer a change ; its surface becomes somewhat shiny , and an alloy is formed with the platinum ; this puts a limit to the temperature at which the radiation may be taken as that of a " " black\ldquo ; surface .
Onr first strip was spoiled in discovering this limiting temperature ; the second strip ( after calibration , \amp ; c. , and radiation experiments with the metal bare ) was covered on both sides and examined during the progress of the experiments , which was stopped as soon as the black surface showed any signs of change of physical condition ; these wers not only apparent to the eye , but were also immediately indicated by a variability of temperature , due to the alteration of emissive power , as the reduction of the oxide crept over the surface of the strip .
Platinum-black would have no advantages in this connection over the copper-oxide , as it reverts to the metallic condition at very nearly the same temperature as that at which oxide changes in the way mentioned above .
The two series of experiments gave the figures in the following bless : lemperature of the Carbons of the Arc , The 1st column gives the absolute temperature of the platinum .
2nd deflection on the scale of the radio-micrometer in millimetres .
These numbers then represent radiation in arbitrary units .
, , 3rd , , , , radiation calculated by a formula to be discussed immediately .
, , 4th , , , , differences between the observed and calculated radiation .
able I.\mdash ; Radiation of Bare Platinum .
Table II.\mdash ; Radiation from Blacked Platinum .
Abs .
temp. Radiation calculated .
Obsd.\mdash ; calc .
The same results are shown graphically in fig. 3 , in which the curve is drawn from the formula through points denoted thus while the experimental points are denoted thus The curve for bare platinum was taken first , and a simple fourthpower law tried on it ; this was found to closely with the observed results throughout the range of the experiments , exccpt Messrs. W. E. and P. L. Gray .
On the FIG. 3.\mdash ; Curve iIlg the relation of radiation to temperature in the case of 1 ) bare platinum , ( 2 ) blacked platinum .
the lowest temperatures , thus confirming our work of year , but in the case of the blacked the curve is muc , less steep than that given by fourth-power law .
In fact , after several trials it was found that the exponent , in the expression followed the curve fairly well , but that a formula of the form , would fit both curves , the values of and being obtained from the respective experiments in the two cases .
In this expression , as before , represents ntity of radiation , the absolute temperature of the radiating surface , the Temperature of the Carbons of the lectric Arc , .
31 temperature of its surroundings , while and are ; determined in any case from two experimental points at some distance apart .
When these have been ated , the expression may be simplified by writing a third say , so that we have being very.small and unimportant when any but very low values of are concerned .
The ( fig. 3 ) aIJd fures ( Table I and Table II ) already given were obtained from expressions of this form ; for bare platinum the constants were calculated from and from this , the values obtained are being , ever , - , and was always about 288 the temperature of the room was and in case , comes out mm. on the scale of the radio-micrometer ) , which is practically gible .
For blacked platinum the constants were calculated from the points whence we obtain both and being , while , so that for calcuIating the radiation , in our units , at any , we have for blacked platinum , and for bare platinum , the constants being those given above for blacked and bare pJatinnm respectively .
From the two radiation curves , for bare and blacked platinum respectively , we may obtain the relative values of the emissive powers at diflerent temperatures .
That the ratio is not constant has been known for some time ; the table given below will show the nature and extent of the variation .
* Schleiermacher , ' Wied .
Ann vol. , p. 287 .
Also Wilson and Gray 's paper already quoted , p. 380 , in which several references wil be found , relating to experiments on this point , and the law of radiatio1l , \amp ; c. Messrs. W. E. Wilson and P. L. Gray .
On the The radiation is calculated from the formulae given on p. 31 , for mperatures 6 .
; the fourth column gives the btio black/ bare .
Table III.\mdash ; Ratio of Emissive Powers of Black and Bare Platinum .
FIG. 4.\mdash ; Curve showing the ratio of the emissive powers of blacked and bare platinum at different temperatures .
The curve ( fig. shows the same resuIts graphically .
It will be seen at once that the ratio diminishes as the temperature increases , but less and less rapidly .
The observations agree fairly well with the old experiments generally described in the text-books \mdash ; experiments made at 10 C. and thereabouts\mdash ; in which the ratio Tpmreratnre of the Carbons of Elcctric Arc , 3.3 iven as from 10 to 12 .
They differ slightly ries , the ratio in his being a little lower than in ours the samo temperature .
There is a fair reement with Rossefti 's result at high obtained ab about ) C. , is very little lowel than value which wonld be reached by a theoretical our curve .
The tendency of the appears to bo to } ) a nt value of about 3 , but it is impossible to matise on this point , from the physical limitntio of the quiry .
The fact that the ratio d diminish shows that the nature of oue or both of the is different at different temperatures ; probably it is the bare platinu][ which cha1lges , it is possible that the constant value of the ] at , is just attained ) melting-point of the metal .
iments ulolten would be interesting , but very difficult to out .
Balancing Exper.iments .
now pass on to the " " balance expcriments from which tcmperature the carbons of arc may bc .
The inciple the method as eady been described in the earlicr part of the paper .
When the arc was .
on the top of the ometer , and the incandescent platinum on the lower , position denoted as Position , the , by B. subtended by the area of incttndescent platinum , in both cases , was The diameter of the hole in the screell , through adintion of the arc passed , was cm .
In posibion , its tance from the receiving SUl.face was cm .
; in ition A it was cm .
, angulal apel.tures of and ) tively .
The screen was cIose enough to the arc to make it the hole as completely filled with the htest part of crater of the pole .
The hole was sufficiently small to a rou pin-hole " " of the carbons , by means of it could be seen dnriug an experiment that the brightest parb of the pole was ( lirectly into tube of the radio-micrometer , and so on to receiving Iu position , the ratio of the areas of platinum and carbon , as from the receiving-surface , was position , the ratio was VOL. LVIII .
Messrs. .
Wilson and P. L. Gray .
On the The following are the temperatures at which the radiation from the bare plalinum balanced that from the hottest part of the pole : Position B. hIean C. Position A. C. 9.30 Mean The results in position A are not so concordant as tlIose in position , but the arc was not quite so steady ; the first low reading ( 862 ) was proba.bly taken when the growth of condensed carbon the -pole was shading the recei ing surface from the heat of the crater , while the high reading probably corresponds to one of those sudden " " bursts\ldquo ; of high temperature hich we have frequently observed to take place , although we cannot offer any explanation of them .
The in above experiments was about 14 amperes , few tions were made with less resistance in cuit , and a current of about 25 amperes ; the temperature then appeared to bs a littls higher than with the smaller current , but the in this case was so unsteady as to prevent the observations very carefully .
experiments with a ( 110 volts ) and a curreIlt varying from 10 to amperes dicate an exact equality of ) ature , which collfirms the ] -acccpted view .
April 8 , lS9.5 .
] Working out the results of the two positions separately , lve for the ratio of emissive powers , at bla ck the formula ( p. 31 ) , for blacked platinum , have for position and for , , emperatn , of the the Arc , Therefore we have a radiation from the pole of the arc , in our arbitrary units , corresponding to ?
in position an to 456 in position A. The geometrical mean of these two numbers , is radintion in arbitrary units .
find the .
temperature , we mnst [ lbstitnte this vahle in the equation 011 p. .31 , This is most easily solved by trial .
coming out as about must be added , owing to the curvature of the radiation curve full reason , see Wilsoll and Gray 's paper alrea quoted , p. ) , giving abs .
, 01 C. as the temperature of the hottest part of the ] of the electric , a result surprisingly near Violle 's estimate , C. Comparative from Differen .
Parts of the Arc. After the above experiments had been finished , an attempt made to obtain comparative values of the radiation , and hence the temperatures , of different parts of the cal.bons of the arc .
For purpose , a radio-micrometer of the ordinary form was employed , on to the -surface of which radiation could fall through a large pin-hole .
An image of the carbons was then formed by an arrangement shown diagrammatically in the ( fig. .5 ) , in which is the arc lamp , inside a lantern with the condenser removed , is a concave mirror , a convex mirror , both silver-on-glass , and is the radioMessrs .
W. .
Wilson and P. L. Gray .
On the micrometer .
The reason for not forming a direct image with a lens was the varying transparency of glass for radiation at different temperatures ; the mirrors also enabled us to " " dilute \ldquo ; the heat considerably , and so obtain convenient direct deflections on the radiomicromete scale .
The sketch ( fig. 6 ) shows approximately the shape of the image formed , on a scale about two-thirds full size . .
6.\mdash ; Image of the carbons from a tracing .
A represents the size of the by which radiation reached the receiving-surface .
The mirror , , being provided with adjusting screws , it was easy to bring any part of the image , either of the carbons or the pale violet glow of the arc itseIf , on to the small aperture , the deflection on the scale of the radio-micrometer then giving readings proportional to the radiation from the chosen point .
Magnified to this extent , however , the arc was never steady enough to allow a detailed " " mapping-out\ldquo ; of the carbon surfaces with regard to temperature .
Even when the light is rently steady to the eye , the violet arc itseIf often shifts its position , while the \mdash ; pole continually alters in shape from the carbon deposited on it , which causes a bulbous excrescence , somewhat as shown in fig. 7 , to form gradually .
When this is the case , the arc naturally strikes across from some such position as A to then becomes , as , be expected , much hotter than any other part of the -pole .
As an of the kind of difference existing between the two poles , the following figures may be given ; they correspond to the hottest obtainablo point the crater of the pole , and to the hottest point on the -pole , before any excrecence has had time grow .
Carbons of ihe lectric llrc , FIG. 7 .
TI , numbers scale divisiollf , on the scale of esent tbc radiation bitrary u : \mdash ; .
Radiation 60 Mean -pole .
Radiation ( that the radiation from the hottest part of the pole ) thrce times as great as that from the hottest of the \mdash ; pole .
Taking the temperature of the former as 3,30 C. , would a tempel.ature of about 235 C. for the latter .
In a case where a " " blob\ldquo ; had ormed o the \mdash ; pole , as in fio the readings were obtained:\mdash ; pole .
Radiation , and Meall -pole .
Radiation of hottest part rain , taking.3300o C. for the es ) ) , .
the lattel , or 35 C. than that of the \mdash ; pole just the is started .
We may say .
then , that if ature otlle crarer is about C. , tltat of the is ordinarily about C. in As for temperaturc of the arc itsclf , we cau 1Iowing the violet glow between the poles to fall ) turo of the radio-micrometer , we defle ions of from 1 ) cent. of those obtained when the ottest p of used , which seems to indicate a ) high for hot gases lic poles .
On Temperature of the of the Electric Arc , Note on the Effective Temperature of the Sun .
In tho authors ' work on this subject , radiation experiments were with bare platinum , at temperatures up to C. approximately , and it was assumed that a formula of the samo form as expressed these results would also hold for a blacked surface , the of the emissive powers at high temperatures was taken on Rossetti 's authority as about The new work , given above , appears to show that the curve the black surf ' does not , owever , follow a simple fourth-power law so as does that for the bare platinum , and that , taking the law as given on p. 31 of the present paper , a correction musl be made to the resuIt obtained by the earlier work .
The approximate value of this correction may be obtained by the figul es given as a typical case on p. 386 of last year 's paper , and applying the new law to them .
In this case , the corrected , the ratio corrected for atmospheric , and for loss by reflection from the of the heliostat ) of the apparent areas of the bare platinum and the sun was approximately 1295 : 1 , and balance was with the platinum at a temperatule of 1514c Abs .
Now by the formula on p. 31 , the radiation of bare platinum this temperature .
15144\mdash ; and having the values given on p. 31 .
The from the sun therefore To find the temperature of the sun , we have , therefore , to solve the uation 403,4504 here and now have the values corresponding to the curve for the black surface .
This gives , approximately , instead of 7000o , as given by the older method of That is to sa .
, supposing the new mula to be correct , our estimate of the solar temperature would have to be increased by sometbing like If , however , the ratio of the emisf ; iv powers a constant value , as Ihe figures and curves on p. 32 make possible , the expression for the curve of the black surface would be somewhat altered , in such a direction as to reduce correction , so that we may say finally tbab , taking Angstrom 's estimate of the ospheric absorption , which gave in our former work an effective solar temperature of C. , its probable alue ld be not very far 8000o C.

