XII .
" I Notes of Researches on the Poly-Aimmonias."-No .
XIV .
Diagnosis of Diamines .
By A , .
W Io OFMANN , LL. D. , F.RoS .
Received May 24 , 1861 .
In former parts of this inquiry I have had repeated opportunities of discussing the features of distinction between the monamines and diamines .
I have shown that the study of the genesis and of the transformations of an ammonia , and the observation of its boilingpoint supply most valuable data for the elucidation of this question ; and that the most reliable inferences may be drawn from the determination of its vapour-density .
In continuing my experiments upon this subject , I have been led to the discovery of a class of salts , the formation of which decides the question in an equally satisfactory manner .
Let us imagine an ammonia of uncertain origin , the composition and degree of substitution of which has been experimentally determinied .
It is obvious that as long as the boiling-point , and more particularly the vapour-density , remain unascertained , it is left doubtful whether the molecular value of the new compound is represented by R( 2)'2 EJ }N or 1I- , N. 113 Nor is this doubt removed by the formation of ammonias of more advanced substitution .
I have never succeeded in limiting the substitution to one equivalent of hydrogen in the case of diamines ; the residual hydrogen in each of the linked ammonia-molecules is invariably affected in the same manner .
Thus the action of iodide of ethyl upon the ammonia under consideration will produce two volatile bases , ( C2 H5 ) N or ( C2 N , , H 112 J1 ( s ) 1 ( C2 115 ) N or ( C2 1-15)2 N2 , ( C2)J ( 2)J the atomicity of which is as uncertain as that of the body from which they are derived .
It is in the transformation of the ammonia into an ammoniumcompound by the action of iodide of ethyl that the true nature of the substance is revealed .
A monamine , thus treated , yields only one compound , ( C-2 H ) N+ ( C2 , )I= 1 I ; ( C , I-TL(C ; 2C)2 whilst a diamine gives rise to two compounds , viz. : " 2 ) ) " ( R2 ) 1 tt ( C2 H5)2 N ) and ( C2 1152 N L(C,2 H1)1J ( C2 , ) The first of these compounds is always formed when the secondary diamine is submitted to the action of iodide of ethyl .
In this case two independent reactions are accomplished side by side .
The first one transforms the diethylated diamine into a tetrethylated diammonium-compound , ( Ia ) " F(tR2 ) " ( C,1 , )2 [ N,2 2 C2[(C2 HI)]1 = &lt; }I ) NI2 I , .
Tescn ecH2 to gie -s to/ a _nehltddamri The second reaction gives rise to a pentethylated diammoium The second reaction gives rise to a pentethylated diammoniumcompound , while the iodide of the diethylated diammonium is reproduced , [ ( % 0 ?
+'I6[(c~ i= ( W2 ) 12 23K ( 2 , ) " 1r+ ( R2 ) N"F( L( 2JN6 [ 5 NI 2 )2 j Treatment of these mixed iodides with oxide of silver yields an alkaline solution containing the three bases[(R2 , ) " ( C2 -115)2 4I " } 0 , I-I .
02 [ ( R , ) " ( C2 I , ) , H 11NJ ] " } 0 ; the two former of which , being capable of conversion into the volafile diamines l(R2 ) 1 .
( Rs2 ) " 1 ( C2 1H , )2 N2 and ( C H-5)2 N2 , H2 J ( 02 H5 ) may be expelled from the solution by a current of steam , the nonvolatile pentethylated diammonium-compound being left behind .
Treated again with iodide of ethyl , the pentethylated compound , lastly , is converted into the di-iodide of the hexethylated diammonium .
The formation of the pentethylated derivative establishes the diatomic character of the ammonia under examination .
I have studied several non-volatile bases , retaining one equivalent of unreplaced hydrogen .
The derivatives of the ethylene-ammonias deserve more particularly to be mentioned .
Ethylene-diamine and diethylene-diamine , when submitted to the action of iodide of ethyl , give rise to the following series of compounds -[(C2 14 ) ' , H6 N2]J , 2 [ ( C2 H4 ) " ( C2 i , )2 H4 N2 ] " 12 [ ( 0 H)"14 N2 , ] " I , [ ( 02 1H4 ) " ( C2 1H)4 , N2 ] " I2 [ ( C2 HJ ) , " ( 0 H)2 H2 N2 ] " I , [ ( C2 H4 ) " ( C2 NH ) H 2]/ " I [ ( C , H ) " ( C I ),3 t1 N2 ] " I , [ ( C2Te 4)di ( C2 H5 ) te of et [ ( 1e4)2nd ( 2 nd diyled e i2 The diatomic nature of ethylene-diamnine and diethylene-diamine is sufficiently well established by their origin , and by the determination of their boiling-points and vapour-densities ; so that the examination of non-volatile bases , retaining one equivalent of unreplaced hydrogen , is not necessary for the elucidation of their atomicity-affording simply additional evidence in favour of facts otherwise satisfactorily proved .
But it is obvious how , in the case of compounds of uncertain origin , which may be easily decomposable or difficultly accessible , the formation of this class of salts must facilitate the diagnosis of the diamines , and may , under certain conditions , become the principal criterion for ascertaining the atomicity of an ammonia .

