1886 .
] Candidates for Election .
237 Marignac I have been enabled to compare a specimen of Ya of his own preparation with the earth described above .
The two earths agree in their chemical Characteristics , and their phosphorescent spectra are practically identical .
No name has yet been given to this earth , as M. de Marignac appears to be in some doubt whether it is not identical with J. Lawrence Smith 's earth , mosandra.* A specimen of mosandra prepared by J. Lawrence Smith , and sent me by M. de Marignac , gave* a phosphorescent spectrum showing that it was compound , and that yttria was one of its constituents .
March 4 , 1886 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\#151 ; Atkinson , Prof. Edmund , Ph. D. Bidwell , Shelford , M.A. Bosanquet , Robert Halford Mac-dowall , M.A. Boys , Charles Yernon , A.R.S.M. Buchanan , John Young , M.A. Burdett , Henry Charles , E.S.S. Buzzard , Thomas , M.D. Cameron , Sir Charles Alexander , M.D. Cash , J. Theodore , M.D. Claudet , Erederic , E.C.S. Colenso , William , E.L.S. Corfield , Prof. William Henry , M.D. Curtis , Arthur Hill , D.Sc .
Davis , James William , F.G.S. Denton , John Bailey , M.I.C.E. Dixon , Harold B. , M.A. Douglass , Sir James Nicholas , M.I.C.E. Ewart , Professor J. Cossar , M.D. Ewing , Professor J. A. , B.Sc. Festing , Edward Robert , Major-General , R.E. Forbes , Professor George , M.A. Forsyth , Andrew Russell , M.A. Foster , Professor BalthazarW alter , F.R.C.P. Galloway , William .
Gowers , William Richard , M.D. Green , Professor A. H. , M.A. Hind , George Jennings , Ph. D. Horsley , Prof. Victor , F.R.C.S. ' Latham , Peter Wallwork , M.D. Lewis , Timothy Richards , M.B. , Surgeon-Major , A.M.D. MacGillivray , Paul Howard , M.A. Manson , Patrick , M.D. Meldola , Raphael , F.R.A.S. Milne , Professor John , F.G.S. Moxon , Walter , M.D. Ord , William Miller , M.D. * " Comptes rendus , " lxxxvii , p. 145 ; lxxxvii , p. 831 ; lxxxix , p. 480 .
Captain Abney and Major-General Festing .
[ Mar. 4 , Palmer , Henry Spencer , Colonel R.E. Pickard-Cambridge , Rev. Octavius , M.A. Poynting , Prof. John Henry , B.Sc. Pritchard , Urban , M.D. Pye-Smith , Philip H. , M.D. Ramsay , Professor William , Ph. D. Rodwell , George F. , F.R.A.S. Russell , Henry Chamberlaine , B.A. Sanders , Alfred , F.L.S. Sedgwick , Adam , M.A. Snelus , George James , F.C.S. Sollas , Professor William Johnson , D.Sc .
Stevenson , Thomas , M.D. Tate , Professor Ralph , F.G.S. Teale , Thomas Pridgin , F.R.C.S. Tenison-Woods , Rev. Julian E. , M.A. Tidy , Prof. Charles Meymott , M.B. Tonge , Morris , M.D. Topley , William , F.G.S. Unwin , Prof. W. Cawthorne , B.Sc. Warington , Robert , F.C.S. Wharton , William James Lloyd , Captain R.N. Whitaker , William , B.A. White , William Henry .
Wilde , Henry .
Wright , Professor Edward Perceval , M.A. The Bakerian Lecture was then delivered as follows:\#151 ; I. The Bakerian Lecture.\#151 ; " Colour Photometry .
" By Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. , and Major-General Festing , R.E. ( Abstract .
) One of the authors of this paper has already communicated to the Physical Society of London ( " Phil. Mag. , " 1885 ) a method by which a patch of monochromatic light could be thrown on a screen .
This formed the starting point of the present investigation , which was to ascertain whether it was practicable to compare with each other the intensity of lights of different colours .
The authors describe various plans they adopted to effect this purpose , and finally found that by placing a rod in front of the patch of monochromatic light , and of a candle by casting another shadow , the intensities of the two lights could be compared by what they term an oscillation method .
It is known that on each side of the yellow of the spectrum the luminosity more or less rapidly decreases .
By placing a candle at such a distance from the screen that the luminosity of the two shadows appears as approximately equal , it is easy to oscillate the card carrying the slit through which the monochromatic rays of the spectrum pass .
( The slit is in the focus of the lens which helps to form the spectrum .
) The shadow of the rod cast by the candle can thus be made to appear alternately " too light " or " too dark " in comparison with the shadow of the rod cast by the parts of the spectrum falling on the screen .
By a rapid oscillation the position of equality 1886 .
] Colour Photometry .
239 of the two shadows can be distinguished with great exactness .
The authors describe their method of fixing the position of the rajs employed and the source of light with which the spectrum is formed .
They also enter into details as to the comparison light , the receiving screen , and the comparative value of the light as seen by them respectively .
The curve of the intensity of the arc light spectrum , as seen by their eyes , which they call the normal curve , is then described .
The question as to the effect of an alteration of the colour of the comparison light is then discussed , as is the effect of the brightness of the spectrum .
The next point touched upon is as to the value of mixed light as compared with its components .
It is found that the following law holds good , viz. : that " the sum .
of the intensities of two or more colours is equal to the intensity of the same rays when mixed .
" This law is applied to Hering 's theory of colour .
The authors next state that with the majority of people the curve of luminosity of the spectrum is identical with the normal curve , but that in some cases slight differences may be observed , of which one example is given .
Such slight deficiency does not constitute colourblindness , since the want of appreciation of any colour is but very partial .
They next describe observations made by four colour-blind persons , and show that there is a remarkable divergence in their curves from the normal .
The deficiency curves are shown , from which it appears that two of the observers are totally blind to red , whilst the other two are partially so .
They then show that such observers would not give a true value for any light which is not of identically the same colour as the comparison light they might employ .
It also appears that the intensity of illumination felt by a colour-blind is really less than that perceived by a normal-eyed person .
Two examples of the normal curve for sunlight are then given , one taken on a day in July by the method of separating close lines by means of varying illumination , and the other in November , by the method adopted by the authors .
Their results are compared with Vierordt 's curve , obtained by extinguishing colour with white light .
In order to ascertain the effect of the turbidity of a medium through which light passes ( for instance sunlight ) , the authors compared the intensity of the spectrum after passing through clear water and turbid water , and found that the absorption agreed with Lord Rayleigh 's theoretical deductions that I'=I06-*xA_4 , where V is the intensity after passing through a turbid medium , I0 the intensity after passing through clear water , x the thickness of the turbid layer , h a constant-independent of X , X being the wave length .
The authors conclude their paper with a discussion of the intensity of incandescence of carbon electrically heated .

