1893 .
] Arrow-Poison of the Wa and other Tribes .
153 As the experimental observations supply data for the calculation of the emissive power of the surfaces of the bars at different temperatures , a table is given at the end of the paper showing the emissive power of the surface of each bar at temperatures between 20 ' 0 .
and 200 ' C. The values obtained agree fairly with those given by Mac-farlane and Tait for somewhat similar surfaces .
V. " Preliminary Notice on the Arrow-Poison of the Wa Nyika and other Tribes of East Equatorial Africa , with special reference to the Chemical Properties and Pharmacological Action of the Wood from which it is prepared .
" By Thomas R. Fraser , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Edinburgh , and Joseph Tillie , M.D. ( Edin .
) .
Received March 6 , 1893 .
Burton , * Cameron , f and other travellers have given accounts of much interest of an arrow-poison used in warfare and in the chase by the Wa Nyika , Wa Kamba , Wa Gyriama , and other tribes of Eastern Equatorial Africa .
The poison was stated to be prepared from the wood of the stem and root of a tree , which , however , was not botanically identified .
Several years ago , an opportunity was given to one of us to examine poisoned arrows , and the poison used in smearing them , of the Wa Nyika tribe .
While the pharmacological action of this poison was found to have a close resemblance to that of Strophanthus seeds , its physical and chemical properties enabled the conclusions to be drawn that the poison was not made from these seeds , but was chiefly composed of an extract prepared from a wood.f These conclusions have been confirmed by the examination of further specimens of the Wa Nyika arrow-poison , and of the wood from which it is prepared .
The specimens were most kindly sent to one of us , at various times between 1889 and 1892 , by the Rev. William Morris , of the Church Missionary Society 's East African Mission , and by Mr. Berkeley , the Administrator to the Imperial British East Africa Company at Mombasa .
These gentlemen have also sent the leaves and fruit of the plant , which have enabled us to identify it as an but , as flowers have not yet been obtained , it has not been possible to determine the species .
* ' The Lake Regions of Central Africa , ' 1860 , vol. 2 , p. 305 .
t * Across Africa , ' 1885 , p. 59 . .
t Eraser , " On Strophanthus Mspidus : its Natural History , Chemistry , and Pharmacology , " * Edinburgh Roy .
Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 35 , Part IV , 1890 , pp. 966-67 .
154 Prof. T. R. Fraser and Dr. J. Tillie .
On the [ Mar. 23 , In the present paper we propose to give a brief preliminary-description of some of the most important of the results obtained by ns in an extended examination of the chemical and pharmacological properties of the arrow-poison , and especially of the wood from which it is prepared , reserving fuller details until the flowers of the plant have been obtained .
We have found that the arrow-poison contains a crystalline gluco-sidal active principle , which in its chemical properties and pharmacological actions is identical with an active principle present in the wood , thus confirming the statement of the source of the poison .
One early and small supply of the wood did not yield a crystalline principle when the extract was treated by the tannin and oxide of lead process , and the limited supply at our disposal prevented the adoption of the process which , when applied to subsequently received supplies , led to the separation of the active principle in a crystalline form .
This process consists in the preparation of an alcoholic extract of the wood , the treatment of this with water , and the evaporation of the filtered watery solution .
Impure crystals appear in the concentrated fluid , and their purification is effected by digestion of a hot alcoholic solution with charcoal , and subsequent recrystallisations from rectified spirit .
Thus obtained , the active principle occurs in the form of colourless thin needle-shaped crystals , which usually group themselves in tufts and rosettes .
When crystallised from water it has the form of quadrangular plates .
At a temperature between 55 ' and 60 ' E. the crystals are soluble to the extent of about 0'93 per cent , in distilled water ; of 0'41 per cent , in absolute alcohol ; of 0'45 per cent , in diluted alcohol of sp. gr. 0-838 ; of 2'4 per cent , in diluted alcohol of sp. gr. 0'920 .
They are less soluble in acetone , amylic alcohol , and petroleum ether ; and are altogether insoluble in ethylic ether and chloroform .
Much larger quantities are dissolved by hot than by cold water and alcohol .
Ether , chloroform , and petroleum ether precipitate the active principle in a crystalline form from solutions in strong and dilute alcohol .
A saturated solution in cold water is tasteless and neutral in reaction ; and it is obviously affected by very few chemical reagents , including the ordinary reagents for alkaloids .
Silver nitrate and mercurous nitrate , however , produce white precipitates .
Tannin does not cause any change in saturated cold water solutions , but it throws down a copious white precipitate in cold solutions , prepared by saturating water at the boiling temperature , and this precipitate is soluble in an excess of the reagent and in water .
1893 .
] Arrow-Poison of the Wa Nyika and other .
155 When to the crystals themselves a little strong sulphuric acid is added , a pink colour is ^almost immediately developed , which soon darkens to a brick-red , and then slowly fades to pale brown .
Dilute sulphuric acid , with moderate heat , changes the colourless crystals rapidly to brick-red , and then gradually chocolate and green colours are developed .
The exact melting point is not easily ascertained .
When heated to about 184 ' C. , the crystals suddenly almost disappear , and the soft substance remaining undergoes little farther change until a temperature of rather over 200 ' C. is reached , when the colour becomes brown , and bubbles of gas are liberated .
No nitrogen or inorganic matter is present in the crystals .
When they are heated at 100 ' C. in 2 per cent , sulphuric acid , a brownish amorphous substance is deposited , and the neutralised filtrate causes an abundant reduction in Fehling 's solution , showing that the active principle is a glucoside .
Two concordant combustions made for us by Dr. Dobbin , of the Chemical Laboratory of the University , indicate that the probable formula of the substance is C30H52O14 .
These characters show that this active principle closely resembles , if it be not identical with , a crystalline substance separated by Arnaud , * by a more complicated process than the above , from the wood of a plant obtained in the Somali country ; and , although the species has not yet been identified , the plant has , from an examination of the twigs and wood , been placed in the genus f On testing the pharmacological activity of the crystalline active principle obtained by us from the Acokanthera wood , we found that the minimum lethal dose for the frog fBana temporaria ) was between 0'00004 and 0*00005 grain per 100 grains of weight of frog .
The latter dose always caused death , usually in from three to six hours ; the former dose was not lethal .
Rabbits died usually in a little over an hour after the subcutaneous administration of from 0*00003 to 0*000035 grain per 100 grains ( l/ 400th to l/ 500th grain per pound ) of weight of rabbit .
The arrow-poison itself was found to have only one-fourth the lethal power of the crystalline active principle .
In a series of experiments on frogs and rabbits we found certain effects to occur so uniformly that they may be regarded as characteristic of the action of the poison .
In the frog the prominent effects which follow the subcutaneous injection of large lethal doses are:\#151 ; Slowing and intermittence of respiration ; gaping of the mouth , often accompanied with straining * ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 106,1888 , p. 1011 , and vol. 107 , 1889 , p. 1162 .
+ Ibid. , toI .
107 , 1889 , p. 1162 , and ' Bulletin G-en .
de Tlierap .
, ' vol. 117 , 1889 , p. 107 .
156 Prof. T. R. Fraser and Dr. J. Tillie .
On [ Mar. 23 , movements like those of vomiting ; fibrillary twitching of muscles , especially at the seat of injection ; impairment of motor power and of co-ordination ; disappearance of the cardiac impact .
cessation of respiration ; and gradual enf eeblement and loss of reflex and voluntary movement .
On opening the thorax , the heart is found motionless , the ventricle in extreme systole , the auricles distended with blood , and the whole heart inexcitable to mechanical or electric stimulation .
When , however , the precise minimum lethal dose has been administered , the heart is found to have been arrested in extreme diastole , and it responds to stimulation .
Immediately after death , stimulation of a motor nerve causes muscular contraction ; but , soon thereafter , the muscles cease to respond to stimulation of the nerves or to direct irritation , and become acid in reaction and rigid .
In the rabbit , after the subcutaneous administration of a minimum lethal dose , the most important phenomena are gradual impairment and failure of the heart 's action , of respiration , and of motor power .
Just before death the cardiac pulsations become slow and extremely feeble , but the rate is estimated with difficulty by palpation of the thorax on account of frequent muscular twitchings .
The respiration is rendered slow , irregular , and shallow .
Inspiratory difficulty occasionally becomes so great that death from asphyxia seems impending even when the cardiac pulsations and general motor power appear good .
Motor power is usually so much reduced before death that the animal lies prostrate ; and only a few feeble movements of the body indicate the arrest of the heart .
When the dose is large , or when the poison acts with unusual rapidity , the heart is paralysed before the general motor depression has set in , and sharp convulsive movements follow the arrest of the circulation .
It is sometimes difficult to say whether the cardiac or the respiratory movements cease first .
Usually , respiration is distinctly continued for a brief period after the heart can no longer be felt to pulsate , and on postmortem examination , the bright red colour of the left auricle and the pulmonary veins contrasts strongly with the dark colour of the right auricle .
Sometimes cardiac movements occur after the respiration has finally ceased , but immediate post-mortem examination reveals that the pulsations are mere irregular movements , altogether insufficient to sustain life or to indicate that the arrest of respiration was the cause of death .
The left ventricle is usually found contracted and nearly empty , and the right ventricle and the auricles filled with blood .
Most frequently the heart is motionless , and does not respond to mechanical or electrical stimulation , but it sometimes shows spontaneous quivering movements , and , for a very brief period , may respond to stimulation .
The lungs are of a light pink colour .
After death , the motor nerves soon lose all influence over 1893 .
] Arrow-Poison of the Wa and other Tribes .
the muscles , and , in a very brief period thereafter , the muscles become inexcitable , acid in reaction , and rigid .
On analysing the action of the active principle we have found that , in the frog , the slowing , irregularity , and cessation of respiration , and the gaping movements of the mouth are not necessarily primary actions , but may be secondary to the arrest of the circulation , because control frogs , whose circulation has been mechanically arrested , exhibit these phenomena within a similar period of time .
In rabbits , artificial respiration does not prevent death from cardiac failure ; but the impairment of respiration probably contributes in them to the fatal result in the case of doses bordering upon the minimum lethal .
The fibrillary muscular twitchings which occur in rabbits as well as in frogs are due to a primary action upon the endings of motor nerves .
The disappearance of reflex and voluntary movements after the administration of small lethal doses is due to paralysis of the nerve centres , and not to a peripheral action , for when one part of the body is protected , reflex and voluntary movements cease in the protected and unprotected parts at the same time .
This central paralysis , however , is almost entirely due to the failure of the circulation , and resembles the paralysis in unpoisoned control frogs whose circulation is arrested .
When large doses of the poison are administered subcutaneously to frogs , the depression of reflexes is partly due to peripheral causes , because , when one part is protected , that part exhibits more rapid and vigorous reflexes than the unprotected parts .
This difference is largely due to a paralysing action on the muscles .
It may , however , be partly caused by depression of sensibility , for when the action is limited to one part , stimulation of the skin in the poisoned area fails , after a time , to cause reflexes in the unpoisoned parts , although stimulation of a poisoned nerve trunk still excites reflex movements .
The action of large doses upon the sensory nerves is well shown by applying l/ 100th of a grain in solution to the cornea of the rabbit , when anaesthesia , lasting for several hours , along with some contraction of the pupil , is produced .
The motor nerves retain their influence upon the muscles until the latter show distinct signs of poisoning ; but the muscles still react to strong , although not to moderate , electrical stimulation after stimulation of their motor nerves is no longer able to excite contractions .
The action on the heart is very pronounced .
When a large dose is injected subcutaneously in the frog , or applied directly to the heart , the pulsations become slow owing to a great increase in the duration of the systole .
Unequal contraction and relaxation of parts of the ventricular wall occur , the diastolic expansion becomes less and less , and , within twenty minutes after poisoning , the ventricle is arrested 158 Prof. T. R. Fraser and Dr. J. Tillie .
On the [ Mar. 23 , in extreme and permanent systole .
The auricles contract for a short time longer , but cannot empty themselves , and become arrested iu a dilated state .
The heart no longer responds to stimulation , and the muscle of the ventricle quickly acquires an acid reaction .
After arrest of the heart , respiration may continue irregularly for so long as an hour , and for a time the frog can jump about actively .
The action of small doses upon the heart is , in several respects , essentially different from that of large doses .
Several hours after the administration of the precise minimum lethal dose , the cardiac pulsations become very slow .
The slowing , however , is not due to a lengthening of the systole , but to a great prolongation of the diastole , and of the succeeding pause in the heart 's action .
Gradually , periods of standstill occur in extreme diastole , and , when the heart spontaneously resumes beating , one or more auricular contractions precede those of the ventricle .
The systolic contraction is extremely powerful .
The condition of diastolic arrest often lasts many minutes at a time , and finally spontaneous pulsations cease .
At this stage , the dilated heart responds , by one or more contractions , to any form of stimulation , but , if the stimulation be frequently repeated , the relaxation after each contraction becomes less and less , and the ventricle slowly passes into moderate , but permanent , systole .
During these events , the inhibitory function of the vagus is not only retained , but increased .
The diastolic arrest of the heart is not dependent upon { \lt ; inhibition , " however , for the condition is neither removed nor prevented by the administration of atropine .
The accelerator action of the vagus is retained .
The diastolic arrest is apparently due , therefore , to a direct action of the poison upon the motor ganglia and muscle of the heart .
The action upon the blood-vessels was found to be very slight .
One part of the crystalline active principle in 10,000 parts of normal saline solution ( 0*75 per cent. ) produced , when circulated , through the vessels of a pithed frog , about the same effect as the pure saline solution , whereas 1 part of Merck 's purest digitalin ( soluble in water ) in 50,000 parts of normal saline solution produced an extreme and rapid reduction in the calibre of the vessels .
This difference in action upon the vessels is much accentuated by the fact that the lethal power of the digitalin in frogs was found to be only about l/ 50th of that of the active principle of the Acohanthera wood .
In blood pressure experiments upon rabbits , the repeated administration of small non-lethal doses by injection into the jugular vein produced a remarkable slowing of the pulse , the vertical height of each pulse curve indicating at the same time a great increase in the force of the ventricular contraction .
The blood pressure was usually found not to be increased , and , when increased , was evidently not the cause of the slow pulse .
When rise of blood pressure from asphyxia 1893.1 Arrow-Poison of the Wa and other Tribes .
159 was guarded against by carrying on artificial respiration , the pressure was little affected , except when a marked fall occurred before death .
The inhibitory action of the vagus was found to be retained , and the nerve proved to be intimately concerned in the early slow pulse , because the division of the vagi or the administration of atropine produced an immediate change in the tracing , the pulse becoming rapid and the movements relatively small .
The further administration of the active principle restored to only some extent the original character of the tracing .
When large doses were administered , the original slow pulse quickly became rapid and irregular , the blood pressure rose somewhat , and the respiration became disordered .
The pressure then rapidly fell , and the cardiac pulsations became slow , intermittent , and feeble , and finally ceased before the pressure was at zero .
The action upon the circulatory , muscular , and nervous systems , therefore , closely resembles , if it be not identical with , that of strophanthin .
Note .
In 1880 , an arrow-poison used by the Wa Kyika and Wa Kamba tribes was examined chemically by Gerrard , * and a non-crystalline substance , giving the reaction of a glucoside , was separated , and was found by Ringer* to be a powerful muscle-poison , which caused death by arresting the heart in systole .
In 1887 , Labordef examined some features of the physiological action of a Wa Kamba arrow-poison , obtained from a missionary , M. A. Le Roy , and stated by him to be composed of parts of eight plants .
Laborde found that the poison caused death by arresting the respiration and heart , and he came to the conclusion that the primary and predominant action was exercised upon the cardio-respiratory centres in the medulla .
In 1888 , MM .
Langlois and VarignyJ examined the action of poisoned arrows obtained from the Somali country , and found that the poison caused arrest of respiration and of the heart , which they attributed to paralysis of the medullary centres .
In the same year , MM .
Gley et Rondeau , S and also M. Gley|| separately , examined some points in the action of ouabain , the active principle separated by Arnaud from wood believed to be the source of the Somali arrow-poison , and concluded that the effects produced were due essentially to an action upon the medullary centres .
Dr. Sailer,.([ in 1891 , after an extended examination of the actions of * 1 Pharm. Journal and Trans. , ' 1880-81 , p. 835 .
t ' Comptes Rend , de la Soo .
de Biol. , ' 1887 , vol. 4 , pp. 52 , 370 .
J Ibid. , 1888 , yoI .
5 , p. 419 .
S Ibid. , p. 421 .
|| ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1888 , vol. 107 , p. 348 .
* Therapeutic Gazette , ' 1891 , vol. 15 , pp. 727 , 814 .
Presents .
[ Mar. 23 , \#166 ; ouabain , arrived at conclusions which are not in accordance with those of the French observers , viz.:\#151 ; that the cardio-respiratory centres in the medulla are not primarily affected , that the lethal action of the poison is exercised directly upon the heart , and that the asphyxia is u. secondary phenomenon .
The Society then adjourned over the Easter Recess to Thursdav April 20 .
, *\#166 ; * Presents , March 23 , 1893 .
Transactions .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circular .
Vol. XII .
Ho. 103 .
4to .
Baltimore 1893 ; Register 1891-92 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1892 .
With a series of Dissertations and Theses .
The University .
Boston :\#151 ; Boston Society of Natural History .
Memoirs .
Yol .
IV .
No. 10 .
4to .
Boston 1892 ; Proceedings .
Yol .
XXV .
Parts 3 4 .
8vo .
Boston 1892 .
The Society .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; Harvard College .
Annual Reports , 1891-92 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1893 .
The College .
Museum of Comparative Zoology , Harvard College .
Bulletin .
Yol .
XXIII .
No. 6 .
Yol .
XXIY .
Nos. 1\#151 ; 2 .
8vo .
-bridge 1893 .
The Museum .
Copenhagen:\#151 ; K. Danske Yidenskabernes Selskab .
Oversigt .
1892 .
No. 2 .
8vo .
Kjobenhavn ; Skrifter ( Naturv .
og Math. ) .
Bd .
VI .
No. 3 .
Bd .
VII .
No. 6 .
4to .
1892 .
The Society .
Frankfort-on-Oder :\#151 ; Naturwissenschaftlicher Yerein .
Helios .
Jahrg .
10 .
No. 9 .
8vo .
Frankfurt a.O. 1892 ; Societatum Litterae .
Jahrg .
6 .
Nos. 11\#151 ; 12 .
8vo .
1892 .
The Society .
\#166 ; Genoa :\#151 ; Societa Ligustica di Scienze Naturali e Geografiche .
Atti .
Yol .
IY .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Genova 1893 .
The Society .
Kharkoff:\#151 ; Section Medicale de la Societe des Sciences Experi-mentales .
Travaux .
1892 .
8vo .
Kharkoff 1892 .
The Society .
Klausenburg:\#151 ; Erdelyi Muzeum .
]\#163 ; rtesit6 .
iSvfolyam XVII .
8vo .
Kolozsv'art1892\#151 ; 93 .
The Museum .
Konigsberg:\#151 ; Physikalisch-Oekonomische Gesellschaft .
Fiihrer durch die Geologischen Sammlungen des Provinzialmuseums .
8vo .
Konigsberg in Pr .
1892 .
The Society .
Lille:\#151 ; Universite .
Travaux et Memoires .
Tome II .
Nos. 7\#151 ; 9 .
8 vo .
Lille 1892 .
The University .

