486 Mr. Legros Clark on the Mechanism of Respiration .
[ May 25 , The absence of observations from the French side appears more and more unfortunate as we advance in the investigation , and renders the general result by no means so satisfactory as it would otherwise be .
It would appear , indeed , that distance from the surface alone is not by any means the only cause of increased temperature in the case of a lofty mountain mass ; but how far this is due to imperfect observation , the want of properly sheltered instruments , and local causes connected with the progress of the works , it is not easy to say .
There may also , no doubt , be some difference arising from the imperfect modes of estimating the mean annual temperature and the temperature and depth of the stratum of permanent temperature .
But although all these are subject to a certain amount of correction , there is enough general accordance of the observations to show that the conclusions indicated must be accepted .
Considering that we are in the heart of the great mountain axis of Europe , the conditions are simple and favourable .
There is little or no permanent snow or ice on either side , and no glaciers : one slope ( that to the south ) is at first rapid , and then in steps ; the other slope is very regular .
The tunnel is of great length , and most parts of it of enormous depths below the surface , compared with any other depths that have been reached ; and it has been mentioned already that the geological conditions are unusually simple , especially in the southern end of the tunnel , to which all the observations are confined , No case has ever before occurred in which there was so much opportunity of making systematic and trustworthy observations on the subject of the internal temperature of the earth ; but as it is not unlikely that the successful completion of the tunnel under the Mont Frejus may be followed by other similar undertakings in other parts of the Alps , the experience here gained may at any rate be turned to account to secure better and more systematic work elsewhere .
Note.\#151 ; Since the above memoir was written , the author has been in correspondence with Prof. Sismonda of Turin , and has obtained permission to repeat the observations recorded , to make corresponding observations in the bore-holes at the French end of the tunnel , and to obtain observations of the temperature at the surface .
These observations will be made with instruments provided by the British Association Committee for investigating the rate of increase of underground temperature , and will be conducted by the author , who hopes to visit the tunnel during the present summer .
II .
" Some Remarks on the Mechanism of Respiration .
" By F. Le Gros Clark , F.R.C.S. , Professor of Anatomy and Surgery at the Royal College of Surgeons .
Communicated by Prof. P. M. Duncan , F.R.S. Received April 18 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) The author commences his paper by narrating some experiments on recently slaughtered animals , in the course of which the remarkable tension 1871 .
] Researches on the Hydrocarbons of SeriesCwH2n+2 .
487 of the diaphragm was noticed ; and the varying condition of that muscle , and of the lungs and pleura , with their mutual relations , are commented on .
The importance of this passive tension of the diaphragm is indicated , and exemplified both physiologically and pathologically .
It is essential in retaining the supplemental air within the lungs , in restoring the equilibrium of repose , in economizing active muscular power , and in maintaining the pericardial space , \amp ; c. The action of the diaphragm in relation to the walls of the chest and to other muscles is next discussed ; and the influence of the diaphragm in drawing in the chest-walls , under certain circumstances , is pointed out , and illustrated by cases of injury to the spinal cord .
The action of the intercostal muscles , as necessary adjuncts to the diaphragm and as muscles of inspiration , is insisted on and illustrated by diagrams ; and a summary of their action is given .
The agency of the serratus magnus is then discussed ; and reasons are advanced , supported by observation and experiment , to show that it is only under special conditions and to a limited extent that it can be regarded as taking any part in the act of inspiration .
The mobility of the different costal regions and of the sternum is exemplified by observation and experiment .
Lastly , the question of abdominal and thoracic breathing , severally in the male and female , is considered ; and reasons are adduced for concluding that the received opinions on this subject are erroneous .
III .
" Researches on the Hydrocarbons of the Series C"H2"+2."\#151 ; VII .
By C. Schorlemmer .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received April 27 , 1871 .
In a former communication * , I have shown that the paraffins , the constitution of which is known , may be arranged in four groups .
The first group , which I called normal paraffins , contain the carbon atoms linked together in a single chain .
Of these I have obtained some new ones , which I shall describe more fully in a further communication .
The normal paraffins which I have so far studied are given , together with their boiling-points , in the following Table:\#151 ; From the acids of the So-called al-From petroleum .
series 0"H2n_2O4 .
cohol radicals .
C5 Hla 3 7'-39 ' C6 Hue 69'- 70 ' C7H16 98'- 99 ' 69'-5 100'*5 Dipropyl .
From mannite .
69'-70 ' 71'5 ' C8H18 123'\#151 ; 124 ' 123'-124 ' Dibutyl .
123'-l24 ' From methyl-hexyl carbinol .
124 ' * Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xvi .
p. 367 .

