]\gt ; 1 .
Objects of the \mdash ; The resuIts of investigation have both a practical and a philosophical aspect .
In their practical aspect they relate to the laws of resistcmce to the moiion of waier in pipes , which appears in a new form , the law for all velocities and all diameters being represented by an equation of two terms .
In their philosophical aspect these results relate to the fundamental principles of fluid motion ; inasmuch as they afford for the case of pipes a definite verification of two principles , which are that the general character of of fluids in contact with solid surfaces depen ds on the relation ( 1 ) between the of the space by the fluid and linear physical constant of the fluid ; ( 2 ) between the and a physical oonstant of the fluid .
The resuIts as viewed in theirphilosophical aspect were the primary object of the investigation .
As regards the ractical aspect of the results , it is not Ilecessary to say anything by way of introduction ; but in order to render the philosophical scope and purpose of the investigation intelligible , it is necessary to describe shortly the line of reasoning which determined the order of investigation .
2 .
The Leading of the Motion of Actual Fluids.\mdash ; Although in most ways the exact manner in which moves is difficult to perceive , and still more difficult to define , as are also the forces attending such motion , certain general features both of the forces and motions stand prominently forth as if to invite or defy theoretical treatment .
The relations between the resistance encountered by , and the velocity of a solid body moving steadily through a fluid in which it is completely immersed , or of water moving through a tube , present themselves mostly in one or other of two simple forms .
The resistance generally proportional to the square of the velocity , and when this is not the case it takes a simpler form , and is proportional to the velocity .
Again , the internal motion of water assumes one or other of two broadly distinguishable the elements of the fluid follow one another along lines of motion which lead in the most direct manner to th eir destinatio1l , or they eddy abont in sinuous paths , the most indirect possible .
On the Motion of Water .
81- ) 1883 .
] The transparency or uniform opacity of most fluids renders it ossible to see the internal motion , so that , broadly distinct as are the two classes ( direct and sinuous ) of motion their existence would not have been perceived , were it not that the sir face of water where otherwise undisturbed , indicates the nature the motion beneath A clean surface of moving water has two appearances , the one li lik that of plate glass in which objects al.e .
flected without dist , ortion ; the other like that of sheet glass , in which the reflected objects appear crumpled up and grimacing .
These two characters surface eorrethe two characters of motion .
This may be shown by spond to adding a few streaks of highly co our hl coloured wster to the clear ) water .
Then , although coloured streaks ma , at .rs gu { irst be irre they will , if there are no eddies , soon be drawn out nto even our bands ; whereas if there are eddies , they will be an led and whirled about in the so familiar with smoke .
3 .
Connexiorv the of Flnid Iotion .
These .
leading features of fluid motion are well known , and are supposed to be more or less connecte , but it does not appear that hitherto any very determined efforts have been made to trace a definite connexion between them , or to trace the characteristics of circumstances which they are usually presented .
Certain circumstances have been definitely associated with the particular laws of force .
Resistance as the square of the velocity associated with motion in tubes of more than capillary dimensions , and with the motion of the bodies through the water at more thalt insensibly small velocities , while resistance as the velocity is associated with capillary tubes and small velocities .
The equations of hydrodynamics , although they are applicable to direct motion , i. e. , without eddies , and show that hen the resistance as the velocity , have hitherto thrown no light on circumstances on which such motion depends .
And although of late years these have been applied to the theory of the eddy , they have not been the least applied to motion of water , which is a mass of eddies , i.e. , 111 sinuous motion , nor have they yielded a clue to the cause of varying as the square of the velocity .
Thus , while as applied to waves and the motion of water in capillary tubes the theoretical results agree the experimental , the theory of hydrodynamics has so far failed to afford the slightest hint why it should explain these phenomena , and signally failed to explain the law of resistance by large moving at sensibly velocities through water , that of water in sensibly large pipes .
This accidental fitness of the theory to explain certain of the phenomena , while entirely failing to explain others , affords strong presumption that there are some fundamental inciples of fluid motion of which due account has not been taken in the theory ; and As there is no such thing as absolute space or absolute time recognised in mechanical philosophy , to suppose that the character of motion of fluids in any way depended on absolute size or absolute velocity would be to suppose such motion outside the pale of the laws of motion .
If , then , fluids , in their motions , are subject to these laws , what appears to be the dependence of the character of the motion on the absolute size of the tube and on the absolute velocity of the immersed body must in reality be a dependence on the size of the tube a , s compared with the size of some other object , and on the velocity of the body as compared with some other velocity .
What is the standard object and what the standard velocity which come into comparison with the size of the tube and the velocity of an immersed body , are quesiions to which the answers were not obvious .
Answers , however , .
vere found in the discovery of a circumstance on which sinuous motion depends .
5 .
The of Viscosity on the Character of Fluid Motion .
small which clear water shows as to the existence of internal eddies , not less than the difficulty of estimating the viscous nature of the fluid , appears to have erto obscured the very circumstance that the more viscous a fluid the prone is it to eddying or sinuous motion .
To express this definitely , if is the viscosity and the density of the fluid , for water diminishes .
rapidly as the temperature rises ; thus at C. double what it is .
at C. What I observed was that the tendency of water to eddy becomes much greater as the temperature rises .
Hence , connecting the change in the law of resistance with the birth and development of eddies , this discovery limited further search for the standard distance and standard velocity to the physical properties the fluid .
To follow the line of this search would be to enter upon a molecular theory of liquids , and this is beyond my present purpose .
It is sufficient here to notice the well known fact that\mdash ; On the Motion of Water .
1883 .
] is a quantity of the nature of the product of a distance and a velocity ; and to point out that the esta tablishment of a dependence of the character of fluid motion on a relation between the linear size of the space , the velocity of the fluid , and , would be equivalent to establishing the existence of two physlca constants , 1 constants , one a distance and the other a or a time , as amongst the proper les ties of fluids .
Using the or in measures of { iime as well as space , these term dimension as lmp ng constants may well be called dimens ona prop onal ro erties or fluids .
Similar constants are already recognised ; thus the velocity of sound is such a velocity constant , and the mean paths of g.aseous molecules , or the mean range , are such linear constants .
It is always difficult to trace the depen ence dence of one idea on another ; it may be noticed that no idea of dimensional properties , as indicated by the dependence of the character of motion on the size of the tube and the of the fluid , occurred to me until after the completion of my investigation on the transpiration of gases , in which was established the dependence of the law of transpiration on the relation between the size of the channel and the range of the gaseous molecuIes .
6 .
Evidence of Dimensional ties the uations of Motion.\mdash ; The equations of motion had been subjected to such close scru ti particularly by Professor Stokes , that there was sma 11 chance of discovering anything new or faulty in em. hem .
It seemed to me possible , however , that they might contain evidence which had been over oo looked of dependence of the character of motion on a relation between the dimensional properties and the external circumstances of mot on .
ti Such evidence , not only of a connexion , but of a definite connex on , was found , and this without integration .
If the motion be supposed to depend on a single velocity parameter IT\mdash ; say the mean velocity along a tube\mdash ; and on a single linear parameter , say the radius of ; the tube ; then , having in the usual manner eliminated the pressure from the equations , there remain two types of terms in one of which\mdash ; is a factor , and in the other\mdash ; is a factor .
So that the relative values of these tel'msval.y respectively as and\mdash ; This is a definite relation of the exact kind for which I was in Mr. O. Reynolds .
[ Mar. 15 , search .
Of course , without integration the equations only gave the t.elation , without showing at all in what way the motion might depend upon it .
It seemed , however , to be certain , if the eddies were owing to one parbicular cause , that integration would show the birih of eddies to depend upon some definite value of\mdash ; 7 .
The Cause of Eddies.\mdash ; There appeared to be two possible causes for the change of direct motion into sinuous .
These are best di cussed in the language of hydrodynamics ; but as the resuIts of thislS lnvestigation relate to both these causes , which , although the distinction is snbtile , are fundamentally distinct and lead to distinct resuIts is necessary that they should be indicated .
The cause of the change ffom steady to eddying motion was , in 1843 , pointed out by Professor Stokes as being that , undel certa circumstances , the steady mobion becomes unstable , so that an indefinitely small disturbance may lead to a change to sinuous motion .
Both the causes above referred to are of this kind , and yet they are distinct ; the distinction lying in the part taken in the instability by vscos ty .
If we imagine a fluid free from viscosity and absolutely free to glide over solid surfaces , then comparing such a fluid with a V1SC0US fluid in exactly the same motion\mdash ; ( 1 .
) The frictionless fluid might be unstable and the viscous stable .
Under these circumstances the cause of eddies is instability as a perfect fluid , the effect of viscosity being in the direction of stability .
( 2 .
) The frictionless fluid might be stable and the viscous fluid unstable ; under which circumstances the cause of instability would be the viscosity .
It was clear to me that the conclusion I had drawn from the equations of motion immediately related only to the first cause .
Nor could I then perceive any possible lvay in which instability could result from viscosity .
All the same I ] a certain amount of uncertainty in assuming the first cause of .
instability to be general .
This uncertainty was the result of various considerations , but particularly from my having observed that eddies apparently come on very different ways , to a very definite circumstance of motion , which may be illustrated .
When in a channel the water is all moving in the same direction , the velocity } ) eing greatest in the middle and diminishing to zero at the sides , as indicated by the curve in fig. 1 , eddies showed themselves reluctantly and irregularly ; whereas when the water on one side of the channel was moving in the opposite direction to that on 1883 .
] On the Motion of Water .
other , as shown by the curve in fig. 2 , eddies appeared in the middle regularly and readily .
FIG. 2 .
8 .
Methods of Invesbigafion.\mdash ; There appeared to be two ways of proceeding , the one theoretical , the other practical .
The theoretical method lnvolved the ' of equations for unsteady motion in a way that had not then been accomplished , and which , considering the general intractability of the equat ons , was not promising .
The practical mechod to test the relation between , and ; this , owing to the simple and definite form of the law , .
seemed to offer , at all events the first place , a far more promlSlng field esearch .
The law of motion in a smooth tube offered the simplest possible circumstances and the most crucial test .
The existing experimental knowledge of the resistance a ter in lubes , although vely extensive , was in one important respect lncomplete .
The previous experiments might be divided into two classes\mdash ; those made under circumstances in which the law of resistance was as the square of the velocity , and ( 2 ) those made under reumstances in which the lesistance varied as the velocity .
There had not apparently been any attempt made to determine the circumstances under which the change of law took place .
Again , although it had bsen definitely pointed out that eddies would explain the resistance as the square of the velocity , it md not appear that any definite experimental evidence of the existence of eddies in parallel tubes had been obtained , and much less was there Mr. O. Beynolds .
[ Mar. any evidence as to whether the birth of eddies was simultaneous with the cha1ige in the law of resistance .
These open points may be best expressed in the form of queries to which the answers anticipated were in the affirmative .
( 1 .
) What was the exact reIation between the diameters of the pipes and the velocities of the water at which the of resistance changed ; was it a certain value of ( 2 .
) Did this change depend on the temperature , i. e. , the viscosity of lvater ; it at a certain value of ( 3 .
) Were there eddies in paralleI tubes ( 4 .
) .
Did steady motion hold up to a critical value and then eddies .
come in ( 5 .
) Did the eddies come in at a certain value of ( 6 .
) Did the eddies first make their appearance as small , and then lncrease gradually with the velocity , or did they come in suddenly The bearing of the last query may not be obvious ; but as will appear in the sequel , its importance was such that in spite of satisfactory answers to all the other queries , a negative answer to this in lespect of one particular class of motions led to the reconsideration of the supposed cause of instability and eventually to the discovery of lnstability caused by flnid friction .
The queries as they are put two methods of experimenting : ( 1 .
) Measuring the esistances and velocities for different diameters and with different temperatures of water .
( 2 .
) Visual observation as to the appearance of eddies during the flow of water along tubes or open ohannels .
Both these methods have been adopted , but as the question relating to eddies had been the least studied the second method was the first adopted .
9 .
riments by Observations.\mdash ; The most important of these experiments related to water moving in one direction alon glass tubes .
Besides these , however , experiments on fluids flowing in opposite directions in the same tube were made ; also a third class of experlments which related to motion in a fiat channel of indefinite breadth .
These last-mentioned experiments resulted from all incidental observation during some experiments made in 1876 as to the effect On the Motion of Water .
1883 .
] of oil to prevent wind waves .
As the result of this observation had no small influence in directing the course of this investigation , it may be well to describe it first .
10 .
Eddies caused by the Wind beneath tke Ov Oiled Surface of Water.\mdash ; dro of oil on the windward side of a pond during a stiff A few rop breeze having spread over the pond and completely calmed the surface as regards waves , the sheet of oil , if it may be so called was observed to drift before the wind , and it was then particulally noticed that close to , and at a considerable distance from , the ward edge , the surface presented the appearance of plate glass ; further from the edge the surface presented that waver ng appearance which has already been likened to that of sheet glass , hich appearance was at the time noted as showing the existence of eddies beneath the surface .
Subsequent observation confirmed this first view .
At a sufficient distance from the windward edge of an oil-calmed surface there are always eddies beneath the surface even when the wind is light .
But the distance from the edge increases rapidly as the force of the win diminishes , so that at a limited distance ( 10 or 20 feet ) the eddies will come and go with the wind .
Without oil I was unable to perceive any indication of eddies .
At first I thought that the waves might prevent their appearance even if they were there , but by careful observation I convinced myself that they were not there .
It is not necessary to discuss these results here , although , as will appear , they have a important bearing on the cause of instability .
11 .
Experiments by of Bands in Glass Tubes.\mdash ; These were undertaken early in 1880 ; the final experiments were made on three tubes , Nos. 1 , 2 , and S. The diameters of these were -inch , -inch , and -inch .
They were all about 4 feet 6 inches long , and fitted with trumpet mouthpieces , so that water might enter without disturbance .
The water was drawn through the tubes out of a large glass tank in which the tubes were immersed , arrangements being made so that a streak or streaks of highly coloured water entered the tubes with the clear water .
The general results were as follows:\mdash ; When the velocities were sufficiently low , the streak of extended in a beautiful straight line through the tube , fig. FIG. 3 . .
O. Reynolds .
[ Mar. .
If the water in the tank had not quite settled to rest , at suffi .
clentIy low velocities the streak would shift about the tnbe , but no appearance of sinuosity .
3 .
) As the velocity was increased by small stages at some the tube always at a considerable distance from the trum point in the colour band would all at once mix up with the surround .
pet or intake and fill the rest of the tube with a mass of coloured water , as in fig. 4 .
water , Any increase in the velocity caused the point of breakdown to approach the trumpet , but with no velocities that were tried did it reach this .
On viewing the tube by the light of an electric spark , the mass of colours resolved itself into a mass of more or less distinct showing eddies , as in fig. 5 .
FIG. 6 .
The experiments thus seemed to settle questions 3 and 4 in affirmative\mdash ; the existence of eddies and a critical velocit , They also settled in tb.e negative , question 6 as to the eddies coming in gradually after the critical velocity was reached .
In order to obtain an answer to question 5 as to the law of the critical velocity , the diameters of the tubes were carefully measured , also the temperature of the water and the rate of discharge .
( 4 .
) It was then found that with water at a constant temperature and the tank as still as could by any means be about , the critical velocilies at which the eddies showed themselves were ctly the inverse ratios of the diameters of the tubes .
( 5 .
) That in all the tubes the critical velocity diminished as the nperature increased , the range being from C. to C. and the law of this diminution , so far as could be determined , was in accordance with Poiseuille 's experiment .
Taking to degrees Centigrade , then by Poiseuille 's experiments 1883 .
] On the Jlotion of Water .
Taking a metre a8 the unit , the critical velocity , and the diameter of the tube , the law of the critical point is completely expressed by the formula where This is a complete answer to question 5 .
During the many things were noticed which cannot be mentioned here , but two lmstances should be mentioned as emphasizing $ihe negative answer to question 6 .
In the first place , he critical velocity was much higher than had been expected in pipes such magnitude , resistance varying as the square of the velocity had been found at very much smaller velocities than , hose at which the eddies appeared when the water in the tank was steady .
And in the second place it was observed that the critical velocity was very sensitive to disturbance in the water before entering the tubes , and it was only by the greatest care as to the uniformity of the temperature of the tank and the stillness of the water that consistent resuIts were obtained .
This showed that the steady motion was unstable for large disturbances long before the critical velocity was reached , a fact which agreed with the full blown manner in which the eddies ilppeared .
12 .
Experiments with two in Opposite Directions in the Tube.\mdash ; A ] tube 5 feet long and inch in diameter , having its ends slightly bent up as shown in fig 6 , was half filled with bisulphide FIG. 6 .
of carbon , and then filled np with water and both ends corked .
The bisulpbide was chosen as being a limpid liquid , but little heavier than water and completely insoluble , the surface ) etween the two bei ng clearly distinguishable .
When the tube was placed in a direction , the weight of the bisulphide caused it to spread along the lower half of the tube , and the surface of separation of the two liquids extended along the axis of the tube .
OIL one end of the tube being slightly raised the water would flow to the upper end , and the bisulphide to the lower , causing opposite currents along the upper and lower halves of the tube , while in the middle of the tube the level of the surface of separation remained These waves first made their appearance as very small waves of equal lengths , the length being comparable to the diameter of the tubeo .
FIG. 7 .
When by increasing the rise , the velocities of flow were increased waves kept the samo length , but became higher , and when the rise was sufficient , the waves would curl and break , the one fluid winding itself into the other in regular eddies .
Whatever might be the cause , a skin formed slowly between the bisulphide and the water , and this skin produced similar effects to that of oil on water , the results mention ed are those which we obtained before the skin showed itself .
When the skin first came on re regular waves ceased to form , and in their place the surface was disturbed as if by irregular eddies above and below , just as in the case of oiled surface vater .
The experiment was not adapted to afford a definite measure of the oCitieS at which the various phenomena occurred , but it was obvi that the critical velocity at which the waves first appeared , was man VIOUS imes smaller than the critical velocity in a tube of the same size when the motion was in one direction only .
It was also clear that the critical velocity was nearly if not quite independent of any existin disturbance in the liquids .
that this experiment shows\mdash ; ( 1 .
) Tljat there is a critical velocity in the case of opposite flow , which direct motion becomes unstable .
( 2 .
) That the instability came on gradually and did not depend on the magnitude of the disturbances , or in other words , that for this class of motion question 6 must be answered in the affirmative .
thus appeared that there was some difference in the cause of instability in the two motions .
On the Motion of Water .
95 13 .
Further Study of the Bquations of Motion.\mdash ; Having now definite data to guide me , I was anxious to obtain a fuller explanation of these results from the equation of motion .
I still saw only one way open to account for the instability , namely , by assuming the instability of a frictionless fluid to be genera , Having found a method of integrating the equations as far as to show whether any particular form of steady motion is stable for a emall disturbance , 1 applied this method to the case of parallel flow in a frictionless fluid .
The results which I obtained at once were , that flow in one direction was stable , flow in opposite directions unstable .
This was not what I was looking for , and I spent much time in trying to find a way out of it , whatever objections my method of integration may be open to , I could make nothing less of it .
It was not until the end ] that I abandomed further attempts with a frictionless fluid and attempted by the same method the integration of a viscous fluid .
This change was in consequence of a discovery .
that in previously the effect of viscosity I had omitted to take fully into account the boundary conditions which resulted from the friction the fluid and the solid boundary .
On taking these boundary conditions into account , it appeared that although the tendency of viscosity through the fluid is to render direct or steady motion stable , yet owing to the boundary condition Tesulting from the friction at the solid surface , the motion of the fluid irrespective of viscosity would be unstable .
Of course this cannot be rendered intelligible without going into mathematics .
But what I want to point out is that this instability , as shown by the integration of the equations of motion , depends on exactly the same relation as that previously found .
This explained the practical anomalies , and ularly the absence of eddies below a pure surface of water exposed to the wind ; for in this case , the surface being free , the boundary condition was absent , whereas the film of oil by its tangential stiffness introduced this condition .
This circumstance alone seemed a sufficient verification of the theoretical conclusion .
But there was also the sudden way in which eddies came into existence in the experiments with the colour band , and the effect of disturbances to lower the critical velocity .
These were also explained , for as long as the motion was steady the instability depended upon the boundary action alone , but once eddies introduced the stability would be broken down .
It thus appeared that the meaning of the experimental results had 14 .
Results of Experi nents on the Law of Resistance in Tubes.\mdash ; The existence of the critical velocity described in the previous article could only be tested by allowing water in a high state of disturbance to enter a tube , and after flowing a sufficient distance for the eddies to die out , if they were going to die out , to test the motion .
As seemed impossible to apply the method of colour bands , the test applied was that of the law of resistance as indicated in questions and ( 2 ) in S 8 .
The result was very happy .
Two straight lead No. 4 and No. 5 , each 16 feet long , and having diameters of a quarter and half inch ] , were used .
The water was allowed to flow through rather more than 10 feet before coming to the first gauge-hole , the second gauge-hole being 5 feet further along the pipe .
The results were very definite , and are partly shown in fig. 8 .
FIG. 8 .
( 1 .
) At the lower velocities the pressure was proportional to the velocity , and the velocities which a deviation from this law first occul.red were in the exact inverse ratio of the diameters of the pipes .
( 2 .
) Up to these critical velocities the discharges from the pipes agreed exactly with those given by PoiseuiIle 's formula for capillary tubes .
( 3 .
) For some little distance after passing the critical velocity no very simple relations appeared to hold between the sures and velocities ; but by the time the elocity reached ( critical velocity ) the relation became again simple .
The pressure did not vary as the square of the velocity , but as power of the velocity ; this law 1883 .
] On the Motion of Waier .
held in both tubes , and through velocities ranging from 1 to 50 , where it showed no signs of breaking down .
( 4 .
) The most striking result was that not only at the cl.itical velocity , but throughout the entire motion the laws of resistance exactly correponded for velocities in the ratio of This last result was brought out in the most striking manner on reducing the resuIts by the graphic method of arithmlC homologues as described in my paper on Thermal ratlon .
Calling the resistance per unit of length as measured in the ght of cubic units of water , and the velocity is taken for absclssa , and for ordinate , and the curve plotted .
In this way the results for each tube are represented as a curve ; these curves , which are shown as far as the small scale will admit in fig. 9 , present exactly the sams shape , and only differ in position .
Pipe .
No. 4 , Lead. . . . . . . .
5 , , , . . . . . . . .
, Glass . . . . . .
0.0496 , Cast iron . . . .
, , . . . .
, Varnish . . . .
Either of the curves may be brought into exact coincidence with the other by a rectangular shifb , and the shifts are given V0L .
xxxv .
by the difference of vertical shifts by the difference of the logarithm of The temperatures at which the experiment had been made were nearly the same , but not quite , so that the effect of the variations of showed themselves .
15 .
Comparison with Darcy 's iExperiments.\mdash ; The definiteness of these results , their agreement with Poiseuille 's law , and the new form which they more than indicated for the law of resistance above the critical velocity , led me to compare them with the well-known experiments of Darcy on pipes ranging from to metre .
Taking no notice of the empirical laws by which Darcy had endeavoured to represent his results , I had the logarithmic homologues plotted from his published experiments .
If my law was general then these cnrves , together with mine , should all shift into coincidence each were shifted horizontally through and vertically through\mdash ; In calculating these shifts there were some doubtful points .
Darcy 's pipes were not uniform between the gauge points , the sections varying as much as 20 per cent. , and the temperature was only casually given .
These matters rendered a close agreement unlikely ; it was rather a question of seeing if there was any systematic disagreement .
When the curves came to be shifted the agreement was remarkable ; in only one respect was there any systematic disagreement , and this only raised another point ; it was only in the slopes of higher portions of the curves .
In both my tubes the slopes were as to 1 ; in Darcy 's they varied according to the nature of the material , from the lead pipes , which vere the same as mine , to to 1 with the cast iron .
This seems to show that the nature of the surface of the pipe has an eifect on the law of resistance above the critical velocity .
16 .
The Critical \mdash ; All the experiments agreed in giving as the critical velocity , to which correspond as the pressure On the fotion of Water .
1883 .
] units being metres and degrees Centigrade .
will be observed that this value is much less than the critical velocity at which steady motion broke down .
17 .
General Law of Resistance.\mdash ; The l.og all consist of straight branches , the lower branch inclined at 45 , and the upper .one at horizontal to 1 vertical , except for the small distance beyond the critical velocity these branches constitute the cnr These two branches meet in a point on the curve at a definite distanoe below the critical pressure , so that , the small portion of the curve above the point before it again coincides with the upper branch , the logarithmic homologues give for the law of resistance for pipes and all where n has the value unity as long either member is below and then takes the value of the slope to 1 for the particular surface of the pipe .
If the units are metres and degrees Centigrade\mdash ; This equation then , excluding { he region immediately about the critical velocity , gives the law of resistance in Poiseuille 's tubes , those the present investigation , and Darcy 's , the range of diameters being from ( Poiseuille , ( Darcy , 1857 ) ; and the range of velocities\mdash ; ofrom . .
metres per , 1883 .
This mula shows that the experiments entirely accord with the theoretical conclusions .
The empirical constants are and ; the first three relate solely to the dimensional properties of the fiuid which enter into the viscosity , and it seems probable that the last relates to the properties of the surface of the pipe .
Much of the success of the experiments is due to the care and skill of Mr. Foster of Owens College , who has constructed the apparatus and assisted me in making the experiments .
The Society then adjourned the Easter Recess to Thursday , April 5th .

