44 Mr. J. Lunt .
On the Origin of Unknown December 14 , 1899 .
Dr. G. J. STONY , Vice-President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. Lord Justice Romer , a member of Her Majesty 's Most Honourable Privy Council , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " The Piscian Stars .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. H. " On the Origin of certain Unknown Lines in the Spectra of Stars of the Crucis Type , and on the Spectrum of Silicon .
" By Joseph Lunt .
Communicated by Dr. Gill , F.R.S. III .
" A Note on the Electrical Resistivity of Electrolytic Nickel .
" By Professor J. A. Fleming , F.R.S. IV .
" Investigations on Platinum Thermometry at Kew Observatory .
" By Dr. C. Chree , F.R.S. V. " Observations on the Morphology of the Blastomycetes found in Carcinomata .
" By Dr. K. W. Monsarrat .
Communicated by Professor Sherrington , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 18 , 1900 .
On the Origin of certain Unknown Lines in the Spectra of Stars of the / 3 Crucis Type and on the Spectrum of Silicon .
" By Joseph Lunt , B.Sc. , F.I.C. , Assistant , Royal Observatory Cape of Good Hope .
Communicated by David Gill , C.B. , F.R.S. , Her Majesty 's Astronomer at the Cape .
Received November 27\#151 ; -Read , December 14 , 1899 .
In a recent paper " On the presence of Oxygen in the Atmospheres of certain Fixed Stars , " * Dr. Gill calls attention to three unknown lines # ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ yol .
65 , p. 205 .
my .
J^unt .
Un the Origin of certain Unknown December 14 , 1899 .
Dr. G. J. STONY , Vice-President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Eight Hon. Lord Justice Romer , a member of Her Majesty 's Most Honourable Privy Council , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " The Piscian Stars .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. II .
" On the Origin of certain Unknown Lines in the Spectra of Stars of the ft Crucis Type , and on the Spectrum of Silicon .
" By Joseph Lunt .
Communicated by Dr. Gill , F.R.S. HI .
" A Note on the Electrical Resistivity of Electrolytic Nickel .
" By Professor J. A. Fleming , F.R.S. IV .
" Investigations on Platinum Thermometry at Kew Observatory .
" By Dr. C. Chree , F.R.S. V. " Observations on the Morphology of the Blastomycetes found in Carcinomata .
" By Dr. K. W. Monsarrat .
Communicated by Professor Sherrington , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 18 , 1900 .
" On the Origin of certain Unknown Lines in the Spectra of Stars of the ft Crucis Type and on the Spectrum of Silicon .
" By Joseph Lunt , B.Sc. , F.I.C. , Assistant , Royal Observatory Cape of Good Hope .
Communicated by David Gill , C.B. , F.R.S. , Her Majesty 's Astronomer at the Cape .
Received November 27\#151 ; Read , December 14 , 1899 .
In a recent paper " On the presence of Oxygen in the Atmospheres of certain Fixed Stars , " * Dr. Gill calls attention to three unknown lines # ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 65 , p. 205 .
Lines in the Spectra of Stars of the \amp ; Cruets Type .
45 in the spectra of ( 3 Crucis , e Canis Majoris , and stars of their type , viz. , wave-lengths 4552-79 , 4567-09 , 4574-68 .
Mr. McClean had previously also recorded these lines in his measures of the spectrum of / 3 Crucis* as wave lengths 4552-6 , 4567-5 , 4574*5 , hut beyond pointing out the approximate coincidence of the first of these with lines due to barium or titanium , he assigns no origin to them .
Sir Norman Lockyer frequently records them as unknown lines .
In his recent paper " On the appearance of the Cleveite and other New Gas Lines in the Hottest Stars " ( June , 1897 ) , the records all three lines as unknown .
The first occurs in a map of the spectrum of Bellatrix as a line in a probable new series found by Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer .
The second and third lines , given as 4566-8 and 4574-8 , occur in a Table of Lines which Sir Norman regards as belonging , with high probability , to gaseous substances which have yet to be discovered .
It will be noticed that the connection existing between the three lines is not there recognised .
In none of the Tables of Wave-Lengths available for reference at the Cape could any satisfactory clue be obtained as to the origin of the lines .
During some experiments made with a view to securing the best elementary line spectrum of oxygen as a comparison spectrum for stars of the f3 Crucis type , I found that a tube of carbon dioxide gave the best results , being freer from impurities , and giving stronger oxygen lines than any of the oxygen tubes at my disposal .
By the use of a jar and air gap in the secondary circuit of the coil the gas was dissociated , and gave the spectra of carbon and oxygen .
During use , the carbon dioxide tubes became more vacuous , and , with a view to obtaining a brighter discharge and shorter exposure , I passed the induced current from an 18-inch Apps ' coil , using four large jars and an air gap .
Whilst using these electrical conditions , I happened to expose an argon tube marked 2 mm. ( pressure ) , and on developing the photograph was much surprised to find that it , too , gave the well-recognised lines of oxygen .
Stronger than these I at once noticed two lines at the green end of the spectrum , which recalled the lines in Crucis , which were unknown terrestrially , whilst the expected argon spectrum was almost entirely absent .
On comparing the negative , film to film , with one of Crucis , and allowing for the difference of temperature conditions under which the two negatives were taken , the identity of the three unknown lines in ( 3 Crucis with three lines on the argon negative was at once apparent , * 'Spectra of Southern Stars ' ( Stanford , 1898 ) , p. 13 .
f ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 62 , p. 60 .
46 Mr. J. Lunt .
On the Origin certain Unknown and a subsequent photograph of the spectrum of e Canis Majoris , in which the argon tube was used , as stated , as a comparison spectrum , established their absolute identity both as regards position and relative intensity .
It was , therefore , evident that a terrestrial source of the three unknown lines had been discovered , and with the behaviour of the carbon dioxide tube fresh in mind , and the replacement of the argon spectrum by unknown lines and those of oxygen by use of a highly disruptive spark , it is not surprising that an obvious startling explanation as to the nature of the element thus found terrestrially should have suggested itself .
It was at first assumed , erroneously as it afterwards proved , that the origin of the unknown lines lay in the gaseous contents of the argon tube .
Four argon tubes in succession gave precisely the same results , viz. , the argon spectrum with an ordinary discharge and the unknown lines and oxygen , together with the disappearance of the argon spectrum , as a result of using the jars and air gap .
On communicating these results to Dr. Gill , he at once interested himself in the matter , and gave every facility for a further prosecution of the inquiry .
He remembered that Professor Ramsay had furnished him with a specimen tube of pure argon , and this tube had not been examined .
On trying this tube under the same conditions as the others , it was found to give the argon spectrum under all conditions .
Neither the unknown lines nor oxygen made their appearance , even when the most intense disruptive spark available was employed .
The first four tubes had aluminium electrodes , whilst Professor Ramsay 's tube had platinum electrodes , and was more vacuous and much shorter .
A pair of aluminium electrodes was then taken from a vacuum tube , and a spark between the metal terminals in air was next examined , with the result that the unknown lines were not found .
A line appeared very approximately in the same position as the strongest of the three lines , but this was only one of the numerous air lines , and was due to nitrogen ( 4552*6 Neovius ) .
Therefore , the electrodes of the jargon tubes did not account for the unknown lines .
On a further examination of the negatives , the H and K lines of calcium were recognised in the spectra of the argon tubes subjected to the highly disruptive spark , pointing to the fact that the lime of the glass was being volatilised .
This fact alone might account for the presence of the oxygen lines in the spectra , and the materials of the glass were then suspected as being the origin of the lines under consideration .
A tube of pure helium , kindly furnished to Dr. Gill by Professor Ramsay , was next examined , and , with much surprise , this was found also to behave exactly as the first argon tubes had done .
Lines in the Spectra of Stars of the / 3 Type .
47 With an ordinary discharge it gave the pure helium spectrum , but with the highly disruptive discharge the helium spectrum vanished entirely , and was replaced by the unknown lines and the spectrum of oxygen .
The helium spectrum could be obtained at will by reverting to the ordinary discharge .
This helium tube had platinum electrodes , and these last observations finally banished any idea that the gaseous contents of the tubes or the metallic electrodes could be the origin of the substance searched for , and the conclusion that the glass of the tubes contained the substance sought was now irresistible .
Yet in some of the spectra from the helium tube , the H and K lines of calcium were absent when those of oxygen were present , showing that the lime of the glass did not necessarily account for the presence of oxygen .
After various fruitless experiments , sparks were taken between the platinum terminals of a broken up vacuum tube on which still adhered some of the blue fusible glass , commonly used in sealing in platinum wire in glass .
The spectrum of this spark in air showed the unknown lines .
Beads of glass made from ordinary soda glass tubing , were then fused on platinum wires , and the spark from these was examined .
The unknown lines again appeared .
The substance sought was now strongly suspected to be the element silicon .
The siliceous diatomace-ous earth " kieselguhr " was next used as the most convenient source of silica , and beads of sodium silicate were made by fusing this material with sodium carbonate on platinum wire. .
The result of the examination of the spark was that the unknown lines were again found .
The next step was to replace the kieselguhr by pure rock crystal obtained from the South African Museum by Dr. Gill .
Sodium silicate made from the pure rock crystal , also furnished the unknown lines , whilst the sodium carbonate alone failed to give them .
These experiments left little room for doubt that the element sought was silicon .
Nevertheless , it was very desirable to confirm the result in another way , by examining the spectrum of a gaseous siliceous compound .
Platinum wires were sealed into the ends of a piece of wide glass tubing , .S inch internal diameter , the ends of the wires leaving a gap of only f- inch for the passage of the spark .
The tube was also furnished with an inlet and outlet tube for the gas .
No capillary tube was used in order to avoid the hot spark coming into direct contact with glass .
The tube was then filled with silicon tetrafluoride , and after the gas had been passing for some time , it was sealed off* at atmospheric pressure .
An ordinary discharge passed through the gas without jars or air gap gave a banded spectrum of the compound itself .
The disruptive discharge obtained by using four jars and an air gap , 48 Mr. J. Lunt .
On the Origin of certain at once gave the unknown lines , which were thus proved to be undoubtedly due to silicon .
This silicon spectrum was not accompanied by that of oxygen , thus proving that it could not be due to any dissociation of the silica of the glass , and that in this case , the gaseous contents of the tube and not the tube itself , furnished the lines under consideration .
Sir Norman Lockyer 's papers were then consulted for any reference to the presence of silicon in stars , and it is necessary to refer in some detail to his observations .
It is evident that he has used similar powerful disruptive discharges with vacuum tubes , and obtained partial decomposition of the glass , for he says :* * * S " The use of the spark with large jars in vacuum tubes results in the partial fusion of the glass , and the appearance of lines which have been traced to silicium .
" Unfortunately he does not give the wave-lengths of the lines thus traced to silicon , and from his statement alone , one would surmise that the origin of the three lines was recognised by Lockyer .
There is evidence , however , in the same paper that he cannot have traced the lines in question to silicon notwithstanding the above statement , because , as previously pointed out , Sir Norman regards two of the lines as belonging to gases yet undiscovered , and includes them in a Table of Wave-Lengths of lines due to unknown gases .
The other line he also includes as an unknown line in Bellatrix , and Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer places this as a member of a probable rhythmic series due to an unknown substance .
It is a curious fact that Hartley and Adeney , and Eder and Yalenta , who alone give us any extended list of lines due to silicon , appear not to have examined the spectrum of this element in the region of the three lines here considered .
Their published wave-lengths show only lines in the extreme ultra-violet , and the majority of them are quite outside the region which can be examined by the McClean Star Spectroscope .
Watts 's ' Index of Spectra ' ( Appendix E , p. 21 ) records a line at 4566 ( Salet ) , but no lines appear corresponding to 4552*79 and 4574*68 .
Sir Norman Lockyerf regards two lines at 4128*6 and 4131*4 as the most conspicuous enhanced lines of silicon , indeed these two lines are the only silicon lines he labels Si in his published photographs .
Eder and Yalenta give 4131*5 and 4126*5 as the least refrangible on their list , and although there is a rather excessive discrepancy in the wave-lengths of one of the lines , they are probably the same pair of lines .
They are shown in Lockyer 's photographs of the spectra of a Cygni and Sirius J and also of a Cygni and Eigel .
S * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 62 , 1897 , p. 65 .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , rol .
61 , 1897 , p. 443 .
X 1 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 65 , p. 191 .
S ' Phil. Trans./ A ( 1893 ) , plate 2 .
Lines in the Spectra of Stars of the / 3 Crucis Type .
49 It is a remarkable fact that these three stars , which may be considered as amongst the best examples of silicon stars in the light of the spectrum of silicon hitherto known , do the three silicon lines which are so prominent in ( 3 Crucis , e Cams Majons , \amp ; c. Schemei has measured the spectra of all three stars* in this region , but does not record the lines in his Table of Wave-Lengths .
Their absence from the spectra of these stars ( as well as the presence of Lockyer 's enhanced silicon lines ) is fully confirmed by photographs taken here with the special object of searching for the new si icon lines in the best known silicon stars .
This can be readily understood in the light of the experiments with the tube of silicon tetrafluoride . . .
With the highest disruptive spark , Lockyers silicon lines 4128 and 4131-4 are much enhanced as compared with the lines 4552*79 , 4567-09 , 4574*68 , and it was found possible by suitable exposure to obtain the two enhanced lines without the presence of the other three lines becoming evident .
The latter lines would be much more rapidly obliterated in the absorption spectra of stars , than in the bright line spectrum rom the tube , and therefore their absence from certain stars in which the enhanced lines are strong need not occasion much surprise .
In other stars , however , all five lines are present .
Lockyer as recorded them in Bellatrix and their presence has been confirmed by photographs of the spectrum of this star taken here .
Mr. McClean has measured all five lines in f3 Crupis where Lockyer 's enhanced silicon lines are certainly not so conspicuous as the lines 4552*79 and 4567-09 .
The same may be said of e Canis Majoris in which star the new silicon lines are very prominent , whilst the enhanced lines are very faint . .
, In the silicon spectrum from the argon and helium vacuum tubes , the enhanced lines noted by Lockyer are by no means so prominent as they are in the silicon spectrum , obtained from silicon tetrafluon e with the intense disruptive spark .
It is evident , therefore , that great variations in the relative intensities of the silicon lines occur in stellar spectra , and that such variations can be produced to a certain extent in the laboratory , and these require further investigation .
The behaviour of the silicon lines will give us valuable data for the elucidation of the problem of relative stellar temperatures .
It is clear that if we regard , with Lockyer , the lines 4128-6 and 4131*4 to be the enhanced lines of silicon and their presence , enhanced , to be a criterion of a higher temperature than occurs in stars where these lines are not enhanced , it must follow that such stars as a Cygni , Rigel , and Sirius are hotter than Bellatrix , ( 3 Crucis , and \#171 ; Canis * Schemer 's 4 Astronomical Spectroscopy.* 50 Prof. J. A. Fleming .
Majoris .
Whereas Lockyer* in his most recent paper " On the Chemical Classification of the Stars " ( April , 1899 ) , regards the so-called " Crucian " stars , as at a higher temperature than the " Rigelian " and " Cygnian , " and indeed he regards Bellatrix " as a type of the hottest stars , exception being made of \#163 ; Puppis .
" Of the other lines recorded by Eder and Valentaf as due to silicon , 3905*4 , 3862*5 and 3855*7 are present both in the spectra of the dissociated glass and in the high temperature spectrum of silicon obtained from the silicon tetrafluoride tube .
They are enhanced lines in the latter case , occurring together with Lockyer 's enhanced lines in the absence of the three new silicon lines , but they lie outside the region measured by Schemer in aCygni , Sirius , and Rigel .
In the Harvard " Spectra of Bright Stars " f the two latter lines are however , specially noted in Rigel as 3863*2 and 3856*2 as " conspicuously strong in the ultra-violet , " whilst all three are recorded ( 3905*6 , 3863*2 , 3856*2 ) in stars of Groops VI to VIII ( Harvard ) , comprising a Cygni , Sirius , and Rigel .
They would thus appear in these stars to accompany the enhanced silicon lines , specially noted by Lockyer , viz. 4128*6 and 4131*4 .
The lines 3834*4 and 3836*7 recorded by Eder and Valenta are not present in any of the photographs of silicon spectra , and may possibly be due to impurities .
The lines 3795*9 and 3791*1 recorded by Eder and Valenta are present in all the silicon photographs , but do not become enhanced at high temperatures .
There is , however , a third line , approximately A. 3807 , not recorded by them , but which appears in all the photographs of silicon spectra .
It is stronger than 3795*9 and 3791*1 , and does not become enhanced with high temperature .
All three lines accompany the three new silicon lines in c Canis Majoris .
" A Note on the Electrical Resistivity of Electrolytic Nickel .
" By J. A. Fleming , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Electrical Engineering , University College , London .
Received November 21 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1899 .
The numerical values assigned by various experimentalists for the mass or volume electrical resistivity of certain metals differ very considerably .
Some metals are without much difficulty prepared as often * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 65 , No. 416 , p. 189 .
+ Watts 's * Index of Spectra .
' J * Harvard Annals , ' vol. 28 , Part I , Table 7 , p. 23 .

