1876 .
] On Thallophytes parasitic within Madreporaria .
May 11 , 1876 .
Dr. GUNTHER , M.A. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On some Thallophytes parasitic within recent Madreporaria .
" By P. M. Duncan , M.B. , F.R.S. , President of the Geological Society .
Received March 17 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) After noticing the works of Quekett , J. P. Rose , Wedl , and Kolliker on the filament-shaped parasites within recent and fossil molluscan shells and scales , and his own researches into and descriptions of corresponding growths in Madreporaria from the Silurian and Tertiary rocks , the author proceeds to explain the method of investigation employed in the examination of recent corals .
The range of the parasites is then stated to be , in corals from the littoral zone down to 1095 fathoms , and from Davis Straits to the tropical coral seas , and their lowest known temperature habitat is that of 310,5 Fahr. A list of species examined is given , and then the long slender canals with their included filamentous organisms are described .
Then the method of entry of the growth is stated , and its relation to the organic basis of the coral sclerenchyma is explained .
The reproduction by conidia and oospores is also explained .
After noticing that the direction , branching , and size of the parasites depend upon the special peculiarities tion of the brain anodic closure is more effective than kathodio .
This , of course , is precisely the reverse of what I find to be true of muscle ; and as the fact of such a difference existing between the two cases is very remarkable , X may observe that it appears to confirm Hitzig 's views concerning the reversed relations that subsist between central and peripheral galvanic stimulation .
I may also observe that I have repeatedly tried whether there is any difference to be detected between anodic and kathodic closure in the case of motor nerves , but hitherto without success .
Yet , as it seemed to me very improbable that there should be any difference between nerve and muscle in this respect , I had intended to investigate the matter still further before publishing any thing with regard to nerve .
I now find , however , that Hitzig 's results with regard to brain had induced Engesser ( Pfliig .
Arch. x. p. 157 \amp ; c. ) carefully to investigate the question with regard to motor nerves ; and the conclusion he arrives at is that no difference can in their case be detected between the effects of anodic and of kathodic closure .
Therefore , as this result agrees with my own , it seems desirable that I should here acknowledge the agreement .
No one , so far as I can ascertain , has as yet published any thing in this connexion with regard to muscle.\#151 ; G. J. R. , May 5th , 1876 .
VOL. XXV .
0 Mr. W. D. Niven on the Calculation [ May 11 , of certain corals , the author discusses the classificatory position of the vegetable form .
Naming it Achlya penetrans , he suggests that it belongs to a group whose life-cycle is complicated by marine and subaerial conditions , and infers that Achlya , Saprolegnia , Botrytis , Empusina , and possibly Bryopsis are so many names of the same organism under these different conditions .
Believing in the necessity of an arbitrary name , he prefers that of Achlya .
Finally an instance of a parasite resembling what is called Saprolegnia Ktz .
, in a littoral coral is given .
II .
( \lt ; On the Calculation of the Trajectories of Shot .
" By W. D. Niven , M.A. , F.R.A.S. Communicated by J. Clerk Maxwell , F.R.S. , Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Received March 24 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) The solution of the equations of motion of a shot is necessarily approximate , because the resistance cannot be expressed by a single exact formula , and , moreover , there are very few formulae which are capable of affording an easy solution .
The results which Hutton obtained by means of the ballistic pendulum were exhibited in the shape of a simple formula ; and in like manner Piobert and Didion , who also used the ballistic pendulum , reduced their results , and were able to give simple formulae .
No one can doubt , however , that , in point of accuracy and extent of information , their results are inferior to those which Mr. Bashforth obtained by means of his chronograph and screens .
Now the formulae which Hutton and Didion gave apply only to spherical shot ; and even for that kind of shot they do not agree with Mr. Bashforth 's results except for a limited range of velocities .
Mr. Bashforth makes no attempt to formulate his results , but produces them in the shape of two Tables , one for spherical shot , the other for cylindrical .
The nature of the reductions of his experiments , and the fortunate circumstance that for a large range of values of the velocity the resistance varies nearly as the cube of the velocity , render it convenient to express the resistance in the form fivs , where v is the velocity and y a variable coefficient .
In fact , if d is the diameter of the cross section of the shot in inches , and W its weight in lbs. , the retardation due to resistance is where K is a number which is tabulated for every 10 feet of velocity .
The question , then , is to solve the problem of the motion of a shot in conjunction and agreement with the Tables for K. The problem is a very important one , not only to the gunner but the gun-maker , there being many practical questions , for example , connected with the dimen-

