On the Specific Gravity and Temperature of Sea-Waters , in different Parts of the Ocean , and in particular Seas ; with some Account of their Saline Contents .
By Alexander Marcet , M.D. F.R.S. 8c .
Read May 20 , 1819 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1819 , p. 161 .
] After some preliminary remarks upon the labours of others in this department of inquiry , Dr. Marcet proceeds to the immediate objects of his own investigation , which were to ascertain the specific gravity of many specimens of sea-water from different parts , and afterwards to examine their saline contents .
The results relating to the first of these objects are prefaced by an account of the mode of taking the specific gravities , and of the instrument by which the water was raised , and of which two plates are annexed .
The author then proceeds to the inferences deducible from his experiments , which , for the sake of conciseness , are given in the form of tables ; whence it appears that the ocean in the Southern hemisphere is rather more salt than in the Northern , in the proportion of 1029-19 to 1027-57 .
The mean specific gravity of specimens from various parts of the equator , is 1027 77 , and therefore a little exceeds that prevalent in the Northern hemisphere , while it is decidedly less than that of the Southern Ocean .
There is no material difference between different east and west longitudes at the equator , nor in the same hemisphere .
In general , the salt seems most abundant in the deepest water , and in that furthest from land ; the vicinity of ice also diminishes the saltness : if therefore this quality should increase in approaching the pole , it may be considered as militating against the probability of the ocean being extensively frozen in those regions .
In general , small inland seas , communicating with the ocean , are less salt than the ocean itself .
The waters of the Mediterranean , however , are more saline , and in attempting to account for this circumstance , the author 's attention is directed to the relative densities of water from different depths of the ocean ; and though in some cases it appeared lightest at the surface , such a result was generally referable to the vicinity of thawing ice , for , in ordinary circumstances , the density at great depths in no instance exceeded the mean density of the waters of the ocean .
In regard , however , to different seas or arms of the ocean , the case is often different , in consequence of local circumstances .
At the entrance of the Dardanelles , for instance , the difference between the upper and lower strata is as 1020 to 1028 .
Dr. Marcet next details some researches upon the congelation of sea-water which takes place at 28 ?
, and when slowly effected , is always attended by the total separation of the salt , which forms a strong brine that is washed away by the neighbouring water .
The different specimens of water obtained from the ice in the late Northern Expedition , varied very little in specific gravity ; the water was sweet , and in many instances its specific gravity did not exceed that of distilled water .
The second section of the author 's paper relates to the saline contents of different seas .
In his experimental inquiries connected with this subject , his objects were to ascertain the quantity of saline matter in a known weight of the water , and to compare it with the specific gravity : to precipitate the muriatic acid from a known weight of the water by nitrate of silver ; the sulphuric acid by nitrate of barytes ; the lime by oxalate of ammonia ; and the magnesia , from the clear liquor remaining after the separation of the lime , by phosphate and carbonate of ammonia .
The soda is inferred from calculation .
The details of these experiments are thrown into a tabular form ; whence it appears that sea-water , however different in specific gravity , contains the same ingredients all over the world , and that these bear nearly the same proportions to each other ; the difference in specific gravity is therefore dependent upon the whole quantity of saline matter which they contain .
The author concludes this communication by announcing the discovery of traces of potash in seawater by Dr. Wollaston .
Hie detected it by the addition of muriate of platina to the water , after evaporation to about one twentieth part .

