1887 .
] On the Young of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus .
391 XV .
" Description of a Newly-excluded Young of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus .
" By Sir Richard Owen , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received May 20 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) Of this interesting and long-hoped-for discovery the author was informed by his friend and correspondent , the Baron von Mueller , F.R.S. , of the Botanical Gardens , Melbourne , and shortly received the specimen from the Baron : also , further details from Mr. Le Souef , of the Zoological and Acclimatisation Society 's Office , Melbourne ; and from the Rev. Pastor Hagenauer , Superintendent of the Missionary Station in Gipps-Land , S.E. Victoria , to whose influence with the natives science is indebted for the acquisition , as I am to Baron von Mueller for the reception , of the embryo well preserved in alcohol .
The specimen is nude , an inch in length , the nostrils well opened , and between them the fleshy conical support of the horny sheath , which has been shed and by which the chorion had been torn open at birth .
The mouth is a transverse slit , not produced as a beak , bounded by flexible lips , and sufficiently open to receive nutriment afforded by the group of pores excluding the secretion of the mammary gland of the pouch .
The fore limbs , chiefly represented by the paws and pentadactyle , with claws sufficiently developed for adhering to the part of the pouch on which the excretory pores open .
The hind limbs are less developed , have the five digits feebly indicated and clawless .
A short conical-pointed tail projects between them .
The elongate , flattened , natatory tail of the adult is a later development .
There is no trace of navel .
The skin of the trunk is uniformly smooth and nude .
If this embryo should be a male , the spur of the femoral gland is a defensive organ of later growth .
The author refrains from dissection in hopes of receiving another specimen ; and , after a detailed description of the external characters of the unique specimen , refers to his paper " On the Uterine Ovum of the Ornithorhynchus ** in the volume of the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1834 , and on the " Mammary Glands " in the volume for 1832 .

