Description of a Sounding Board in Attercliffe Church , invented by the Rev. John Blackburn , Minister of Attercliffe-cum-Darnall , Sheffield .
Read June 5 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 361 .
] The church at Attercliffe had long been remarkable for the difficulty and indistinctness with which a voice from the pulpit was heard .
These defects have been completely remedied by the erection of a concave sounding-board , having the form resulting from half a revolution of one branch of a parabola on its axis .
It is made of pine wood ; its axis is inclined forwards to the plane of the floor , at an angle of about 10 ?
or 15 ?
; it is elevated so that the speaker 's mouth may be in the focus ; and a small curvilinear portion is removed on each side , so that the view of the preacher from the side galleries may not be intercepted .
A curtain is suspended from the lower edge for about 18 inches on each side .
The effect of this sounding-board has been to increase the volume of sound to nearly five times what it was before ; so that the voice is now audible , with perfect distinctness , even in the remotest parts of the church , and more especially in those places which are situated in the prolongation of the axis of the paraboloid .
But the side galleries are also benefited ; probably from the increase of the secondary vibrations in a lateral direction .
Several experiments are related illustrative of these effects ; among which , the most striking , was one in which a person placed so as to have one ear in the focus of the paraboloid , and the other towards another person speaking from the remote end of the church , heard the voice in a direction the reverse of that from which it really proceeded .
The superior distinctness of sounds proceeding from the focus is accounted for by their all arriving at the same moment of time at a plane perpendicular to the axis , after reflexion from the surface of the paraboloid ; which is a consequence of the equality of the paths they have described .

