ENTOMOSTRACA .
\#151 ; Gr .
S. BRADY .
Entomostraca.\#151 ; By George Stewardson , , C.M.Z.S. ( Plate XII .
) [ OSTKACODA .
All of the Ostracoda collected by me in Kerguelen Island were lost by a breakage.\#151 ; A. E. E. ] COPEPODA .
The Entomostraca submitted to me were taken in the following localities :\#151 ; One surface-net gathering , in lat. 35 ' 9 ' S. , long .
45 ' 30 ' E. ; another gathering from a freshwater lake , and a third from a pool above high-water mark , both in Kerguelen Island .
The oceanic species were Calanus and a either identical with or very closely allied to S. , Lubbock ; those from Kerguelen Island were a freshwater species , apparently new , described by me briefly in Ann. and Mag. Not .
Hist. , Sept. 1875 , under the name Centropages and a species from brackish water , Karp actions fulvus .
No species have yet been recorded by the other Expeditions .
Harpacticus fulvus , Fischer .
FLab.\#151 ; Eoyal Sound , Kerguelen Island ; abundant in pools above high-water mark .
It was first noticed by Mr. Eaton at the American station ( Molloy Point ) , in pools by the landing place ; but the specimens preserved came from Observatory Bay .
The occurrence of this species in Kerguelen Island is particularly interesting from the fact that it is found all over the European shores in precisely similar situations , that is to say in brackish pools , at or above high-water mark , which are liable to become warm through exposure to the sun 's rays .
These are in no respect distinguishable from European specimens .
Centropages brevicaudatus , .
Centropages brevicaudatus , Brady , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , ser. 4 , Sept. 1875 , vol. xvi .
162 ; Eaton , op .
cit. , vol. xvii .
p. 264 .
Long. ?
inch .
Male not observed .
Female robust , rostrum short and blunt , last segment of cephalothorax produced on each side into an acutely angular oblong ala-form process .
Upper antenna as long as the first two segments of the cephalothorax , slightly tapering towards the extremity , beset with short setae , 25-jointed ; joints subequal , somewhat increasing in length as far as the penultimate joint .
Lower foot-jaw rather short , of moderate strength , armed at the apex with two slender falcate claws .
The other mouth organs present no distinctive peculiarities .
Swimming-feet with both of their branches 3-jointed , the inner branch short ; first pair much smaller than the next three , with the terminal spines of the outer branch smooth , and of moderate length and strength ; fifth pair with the second joint of the outer branch produced internally into a strong denticulated spine , and the marginal setae of both of the branches extremely short .
Abdomen short , composed of two segments exclusive of the caudal segments ; the vulva forms a large rounded protuberance on the first segment ; the caudal setae are short , subequal , half as long as the abdomen , and plumose .
Sab.\#151 ; This species is very plentiful in freshwater lakes in the neighbourhood of Observatory Bay .
It swims slowly , and with an even motion ; and hence the females have the appearance of small brown seeds borne along with the water .
Their abdomen is somewhat jecinoreus in colour , paler than the cephalothorax .
By some accident they were at first stated to be oceanic ( Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , Sept. 1875 ) , but the tube containing the specimens bore a record of their true habitat , and this statement was afterwards corrected ( op .
cit. March 1876 ) .
No males were preserved .
Plate XII .
, figs. 11\#151 ; 19 , C. brevicaudatus $ ( enlarged ) : 11 , female ( side view ) ; 12 , upper antennae ; 13 , mandible and palp ; 11 , maxilla ; 15 , upper foot-jaw ; 16 , lower foot-jaw ; 17 , a swimming-foot of the 1st pair ; 18 , one of the 5th pair ; 19 , abdomen .
Calanus finmarchicus , Gunner .
Cetochilus septentrionalis , Goodsir , Edinb .
New Phil. Journ. 35 , p. 339 , PI .
vi .
, figs. 1-11 ; Baird , Not .
Ilist .
Brit. Entom .
, p. 235 , T. xxix .
, figs. 1 a-g .
Sab .
and Dist.\#151 ; Two specimens were taken in the surface-net in lat. 35 ' 9 ' S. , long .
15 ' 30 ' E. It is found also in the British , European , and Greenland seas .
Sapphirina danse , Lubbock .
Trans. Ent .
Soc. London , N. S. 1856 , vol. iv .
, part ii .
, p. 23 , pi .
xii .
, 9-11 .
Dimensions U tutu inch long , inch broad ; ?
xV4o inch long , inch broad .
Male.\#151 ; Outline from above sub-elliptical , rather widest in front ; first cephalothoracic segment considerably broader than long , equal in length to the four following conjoined .
Superior antennae short , stout , moderately setose , 5-jointed , with the second joint about as long as the four others united ; inferior antennae somewhat longer , 1-jointed , geniculated between the second and the third joints ; first and second joints by far the longest , third very short , fourth long , terminated ENTOMOSTRACA.\#151 ; G. S. BRADY .
by a small claw and a bristle about as long as the claw .
Mandible ( ?
) slender , with a single apical tooth and two stout plumose lateral filaments ; no palpi .
Upper foot-jaw short and stout , 3-jointed , ending in a simple claw ; lower foot-jaw larger , stout , 3-jointed , bearing a large curved apical claw which is fully as long as the three preceding joints taken together .
Swimming-feet in four pairs , all nearly alike , 2-branched , the branches 3-jointed and subequal in length to each other ; marginal spines of the outer branch sharp and slender , the other setae of moderate length and very distinctly plumose .
Caudal laminae ovate , about twice as long as wide , armed with 4 very short setae , of which two are apical , one is on the middle of the outer margin , and the fourth is intermediate between this and the other two ; at the extremity of the inner margin is a minute spine .
In the median line , behind the bases of the first pair of antennae , is a very distinct nervous mass in the form of a ganglionic ring elongated backwards , which emits numerous diverging lateral filaments , and separates posteriorly into two large nerve trunks .
Erom the front of this ganglion are given off two short processes , supporting at their extremities two bulb-like " conspicilla " or lenses , slightly in advance of which are two nebulous spots which seem to be of the nature of " ocelli .
" Behind the bifurcation of the cephalo-thoracic ganglion lies a glandular organ of considerable size , covering the upper portion of the alimentary canal ; and from it , or from its immediate neighbourhood , two curved tubes are prolonged backwards to the sixth body-segment , where they converge towards the intestinal tube and terminate in coecal expansions ; these are the te vasa deferentia .
" The alimentary canal is a straight funnel-shaped tube , which extends along the median line to the apex of the abdomen .
Female.\#151 ; Very different in shape from the male ; the abdomen being abruptly narrower than the cephalothorax .
Cephalothorax of 4 segments , the first of which is as long as the three remaining together .
Abdomen 6-jointed ( exclusive of caudal segment ) , only about half as wide as the cephalothorax , from which it is separated very distinctly .
The first segment is constricted anteriorly , and gives attachment to the last ( fifth ) pair of feet ; these feet are rudimentary , and consist of a single joint armed with two terminal setae .
The other abdominal segments are about twice as broad as long , and are subequal to one another .
The caudal segments are rather wider in proportion than those of the male .
Hab.\#151 ; Taken by the surface-net in Lat. 35 ' 9 ' S. , Long. 45 ' 30 ' E. , March 1875 ( Eaton ) ; Lat. 27 ' 30 ' N. , Long. 20 ' W. ( Lubbock ) .
Avery similar species , perhaps the same , was obtained by Mr. Eaton on the 25th of September 1874 on his outward voyage , within 60 miles W. of the Crozets ; but none of this earlier gathering could be preserved .
Mr. Eaton says of this species :\#151 ; " The large oval flattened Entomostraca in the water reflected from their surface a blue light which changed to opal in certain positions , and were conspicuous like phosphorescent spots from the deck of the vessel .
The colour was entirely due to reflection , their actual substance being colourless and diaphanous .
They swam back downwards , and occurred mostly in narrow bands of brownish water , some of which from 50 to 200 yards in width extended for miles as far as we could see on both sides of us .
The water derived its tint from jelly-like granulated oval flattened disks easily injured by removal from the sea , which resembled in appearance spawn of Mollusca ; but having nothing better than a Coddington lens at hand to examine it with , I am unable to vouch that it was spawn .
There were also various kinds of small jelly-fish in some of the bands , \#151 ; here and there a miniature Velella of ultra-marine blue , \#151 ; most of them the produce of Sertularians ; and the brilliant Entomostraca entangled in their trailing tentacles could be distinguished from among the others by the constancy with which their position relative to one another was maintained .
As a rule these coelenterata did not contribute largely to the formation of the bands , although they were abundant ; but now ' and then bands wrere crossed by us which consisted of little besides these Acalephse .
When it is considered that the individual jelly-fish are colourless , with the exception of their proboscis ( wrhen there is one ) , eye-specks , and ovaries , \#151 ; so transparent indeed that often eye-specks are the only parts of them visible in a wdiite basin\#151 ; the difficulty of conceiving the innumerable myriads of them in a strip of water miles in length coloured brown by them alone , may be imagined .
The are less plentiful in these bands than they are in those which are due to the ' spawTn .
' The smaller Entomostraca were mostly of a beautiful ultramarine blue .
" The small form here referred to is , I presume , the female , as the gathering sent to me contains no other species except Calanus , which , so far as I know , never exhibits any bright colouring .
These Sappliirinse even after their preservation in spirits with glycerine present a very vivid opalescence .
Plate XII .
, figs. 1-10 , S. dance ( enlarged ) ; 1 , female ( from above ) ; 2 , male ( from beneath ) ; 2a , upper antennae ; b , cerebral ganglion ; c , lenses ; d and cl , nerve filaments ; e , testis ; f and f , vasa deferentia ; g , alimentary canal ; 3 , upper antenna $ ; 4 , lower ditto ; 5 , mandible ( ?
) ; 6 , upper foot-jaw ; 7 , lower ditto ; 8 , a swimming-foot of the first pair ; 9 , cerebral ganglion with lenses ; 10 , caudal lamina $ .
s .
of Venus Exped .
IVEE GXTELEN ISLAND .
Zoology PI .
XII .
IWw/ m ?
werby litk 1 \#151 ; 10 .
S oLppliir\#187 ; insL dsuise 11\#151 ; 19 .
Centrop a.q e s brevic audatus MirLtern7 ?
ro\#187 ; .
imp .

