XIII .
" An attempt to apply Chemical Principles in explanation of the Action of Poisons .
" By W. H. BROADBENT , M.D. Communicated by Dr. F. SIBSON , F.R.S. Received June 18 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) The starting-point in the inquiry has been the two following postulates:1 .
That there must be some relation between the substance administered and the animal organism , on which the effects depend .
2 .
That , so far as the substance is concerned , the basis of the relation can only be its chemical properties , using the term in its widest sense .
From these postulates follow certain corollaries:1 .
That the physiological and therapeutic action of the same substance must be similar in kind .
2 .
That the action of food , remedies , and poisons must be capable of explanation on the same principles .
3 .
That substances chemically allied should have similar physiological and therapeutic actions , or any diversity found to exist should be capable of explanation on chemical grounds .
The second of these deductions is taken as a guide in the present inquiry .
Something is known as to the uses of the various classes of foods in the economy , and of the mode in which they subserve these uses ; this knowledge may be applied in the endeavour to ascertain the mode of action of poisons .
The operations taking place in the animal organism may be divided into two great classes:-(a ) for maintenance of structure , ( / 3 ) for evolution of force .
While mutually interdependent , they are distinct , and in character essentially antagonistic , structural and chemical elaboration on the one hand , oxidation or disintegration on the other .
The two great classes of food , organic and mineral , are in close relation with these .
The organic foods build up the tissues , but ultimately undergo oxidation and yield force .
The inorganic foods take a subordinate part in the composition of the textures ; they do not yield force by oxidation , but they influence the nutritive processes .
So also the organic remedies and poisons affect the evolution of force , mineral substances the organic processes .
( The action of mineral matters has been noticed elsewhere .
) 465 The force evolved in the animal organism takes the form of heat , motion , and nervous action ; but there are very important points of difference between heat on the one hand and nervo-muscular action on the other , both as to the part they take in the vital processes , and in the conditions of their evolution .
It is through their action on the nervous system that the powerful organic poisons destroy life ; and in order to understand this action , it is necessary to consider closely the evolution of nerve-force , and to endeavour to realize the chemical conditions implied .
In the first place , the source of nerve-force is oxidation , and the seat of the oxidation is the nervous structures .
This is generally admitted , and seems to be conclusively established by an analysis of the phenomena observed in experiments with a prepared frog 's leg .
This admitted , it is to be noted1 .
That nerve-action is intermittent and of varying intensity , and that in addition to the presence of the oxygen brought to the nerve-structures by the blood , an impulse from without , or from some other part of the nervous system , is necessary to determine the evolution of the force .
2 .
Again , there is a storing up of potential energy in the nervous structures ; witness the necessity for sleep , &amp;c. 3 .
A due supply of oxygen is required .
The phenomena of asphyxia show that the demand is most urgent in the hemispherical ganglia .
These facts indicate that the constituent of the nervous structures by oxidation of which the force is yielded , possesses what I have ventured to call chemical tension , a property which does not belong to non-nitrogenized matter , or to all nitrogenized matter .
It will be further explained later ; for the present , it is sufficient to refer to nitroglycerine as an extreme example .
The protagon of Liebreich , and the neurine recently identified by Wurtz , with hydrate of trimethyl-oxethyl-ammonium , have this characteristic in a certain degree .
Turning now to the poisons which kill by their powerful action on the nervous system .
They all contain nitrogen , and all possess chemical tension ; and these seem to be the only points common to the entire group .
Nitrogen cannot be the poisonous element ; it has no great chemical energy , and it is present in large proportion in substances which are inert .
It is nevertheless the pivot on which the deadly influence turns .
Its affinity for IH , 0 , and especially for C , is only feeble .
When , therefore , in a molecule containing C , H , and N , or C , H , N and 0 , the elements are not so arranged that the mutual affinities of C , H , and O cooperate to maintain the integrity of the molecule ; there may be a more or less powerful tendency on the part of C , H , and O to rearrange themselves without regard to the N , or to combine with O or H1 O if presented .
This is what is meant by the term chemical tension .
In the example given , nitroglycerine { C3 tI(NO ) , O , } , the dislocation is of O from N in favour of C and H. Equally striking examples of dislocation of N from C or H cannot be given , and it is not easy in all cases to point out the source of the tension .
A very important method in which the balance of affinities is deranged and the condition of tension brought about , is by departure from a stable type , as , for instance , in the nitrite bases , which are residues derived from ammonium-salts by dehydration .
To this class belong morphia , strychnia , brucia , and most poisonous alkaloids .
Additional interest is given to these compounds by the fact that Dr. Crum Brown and Dr. Fraser have shown that , by introduction into the molecule of methyl-iodide , carrying back the constitution a step in the direction of the ammonium type , the poisonous effects are greatly diminished , and entirely altered in character .
Let the deduction as to the evolution of nerve-force be accepted , and we have in the introduction into the blood of substances having varying degrees and directions of tension an intelligible method of influencing its manifestations .
Looking now upon nerve-action as a result of oxidation , in the various methods by which this oxidation may be influenced , analogies may be traced with conditions which affect ordinary combustion .
These conditions are1 .
The supply of oxygen .
2 .
The character of the combustible .
3 .
The presence of products of combustion , or of bodies having a similar influence .
It is of course necessary to bear in mind the peculiarities of the oxidation yielding nerve-force , the differences between combustion and oxidation in the moist state , and the special modifying conditions of the animal organism .
For example , while in asphyxia the deprivation of oxygen arrests all nervous action , the respiration of undiluted oxygen does not intensify it , either because the blood will only take up a certain proportion of oxygen , or more probably because the effects of the O are expended in altering the blood , which is thus oxidized instead of being oxygenated .
The analogies to the above conditions found in the action of substances on the nervous system are1 .
The liberation in the nascent state in the nervous structures of C and H , which appropriate the 0 brought by the blood , and so produce a result equivalent to the exclusion of 0 .
The C and H are set free by the dislocating influence of N , and the example of this mode of action is furnished by prussic acid .
The converse of this , the liberation of 0 by a similar process , is not likely to occur , as 0 is never present in an organic body in excess of the proportion which would fully oxidize the other elementary constituents .
2 .
The analogy to the influence on the energy of combustion by the character of the combustible , is found in the introduction into the blood of substances having chemical tension , holding different relations to the tension of the nervous matter .
3 .
The action of anaesthetics on the nervous system furnishes a strict parallel to the influence of CO2 on combustion .
The rationale here given as to the action of anesthetics is , for the purposes of the present paper , taken as established by the late Dr. Snow .
Objections which have been made to it are capable of removal by experiments and considerations which need not here be adduced .
Considerable importance is attached to the establishment of the explanation here given of the action of prussic acid , Stated more explicitly , this explanation is , that the prussic acid is carried by the blood to the nerve-centres ; that under the influence of the affinities thus brought to bear upon it ( affinities which normally determine the oxidation by which nerve-force is evolved ) , its elements are dislocated from each other , and the C and H liberated in the latent condition appropriate the 0 destined for the evolution of nerve-force which is thus arrested , This explanation is suggested by the composition of hydrocyanic acid , H Cy .
Cyanide of potassium KCy , again , is used as a powerful reducing agent in chemical processes .
Its liability to the change which will permit its elements to exercise their individual affinity for 0 , is indicated by its spontaneous decomposition in water , by its position as a nitrile ( formio-nitrile ) .
Corroborative evidence that it is by means of such a change that it acts , is firnished when the elements are held together by some supporting affinity , as in ferro-cyanogen .
But the best example is in sulphocyanogen and hydrosulphocyanic acid , which of themselves are poisonous ( i. e. cannot resist the dislocating influences ) , but , reinforced by a base , are innocent .
[ A parallel to this is seen in aniline , which is poisonous , and in sulphate of aniline , which is not .
See Lond. Iosp .
Reports , Dr. Letheby .
] The phenomena by poisoning by prussic acid are perfectly consistent with this view .
All observers have noted their similarity to those of asphyxia .
Still more striking is the fact that artificial respiration , and especially with oxygen , is the great means of neutralizing the effects of this poison .
Probably this chain of facts would be considered conclusive , were it not that the hypothesis as to the mode of death by H Cy is paralysis of the respiratory movements .
This hypothesis , however , still leaves unexplained the cause of the paralysis itself , and therefore the real mode of action of the poison .
It is , moreover , inconsistent with certain of the phenomena ; the respiratory nerve-centres are actually the last to be paralyzed , except those concerned in the action of the heart .
Experiments nevertheless have been made for the purpose of ascertaining whether the previonus respiration of undiluted oxygen would retard , or in 468 any measure prevent the action of prussic acid .
The results have been by no means uniform ; but instances have occurred ( rats being the animals used ) in which , after the injection of an overwhelming dose , the fatal effect has been delayed quite beyond the operation of accidental causes ; and again , in which a dose fatal to two rats , and barely survived , after a long train of symptoms , by one other , produced comparatively little effect on another after the respiration of oxygen .
It has been found also that a proportion of prussic acid diffused in equal volumes of air and of oxygen , has a decidedly less powerful action on the animal in the latter case .
With frogs the results were most contradictory and embarrassing , till it was discovered that prussic acid injected under the skin had scarcely any action on them .
But if they were subsequently placed under a glass shade , or in some other confined atmosphere , into which the acid diffused , it would gradually affect them .
It seems probable that the affinities in operation in the nervous structures of the frog are not sufficiently energetic to determine the decomposition of the I Cy , which will then act upon this animal as ai anlesthetic .
Nitroglycerine was at first made the subject of experiment , under the idea that possibly oxygen might be evolved from the NO , , which is substituted for three equivalents of I in the typical molecule .
Subsequent reflection showed that this is not likely to occur ; but the Iact remains , that it is a substance liable to change , and very highly charged with oxygen , as compared with the ordinary constituents of the body .
It is a very powerful poison , having , however , entirely different effects on frogs and rats .
In frogs it very speedily induces powerful tetanic convulsions ( a single drop of a solution of one pint of nitroglycerine in four parts of methyl in alcohol placed on the back of a frog is followed in five or eight minutes by stiffness of movement , and in thirteen to sixteen minutes by most violent spasms ) .
In rats an hour or more elapses before any symptom is manifest , and then death is by a gradually increasing feebleness of movement , in two or three hours , without convulsion .
It is unquestionable that this difference in the effects has a relation with the oxygen contained in the nitroglycerine .
The contrast with prussic acid in the action on warm and cold-blooded animals is suggested .
A very extended and comprehensive inquiry , both as to the conditions in the nervous system associated with convulsions , tetanus , delirium , &amp;c. , and into the relations and constitution of the poisons which give rise to these symptoms , is necessary before the second analogy can be followed out with any confidence .
Experiments are being made with substances of known composition and constitution , with a view to elucidate this part of the question .
In conclusion , two points are considered which cannot be passed over in 22 469 any attempt to apply the principles of physical and chemical science to the case of poisons .
The first is as to the minuteness of the fatal dose .
Any explanation , before it can be accepted , must show that the cause is adequate to produce the effect .
This is a difficulty in the path of any rational explanation .
It is attempted to meet it by showing , on the one hand , that the equivalency of nerve-force is extremely small , by reference to its analogy with electrical currents , and by other considerations , and that therefore the degree of chemical change involved in its evolution is also small ; and , on the other hand , the maximum of force to be obtained from an organic body is through the exercise of the affinities of its individual elements .
The second point is as to the special action of certain poisons on particular nervous centres , -strychnia on the cord , morphia on the brain , &amp;c. , the substances being carried by the blood to all alike .
It is as necessary to explain why no effect is produced on those centres , or tracts which do not suffer , as to explain the action on the one which does .
The explanation is sought in the fact that the difference in the functional activity of the brain and cord , the need for sleep by the brain , not experienced , at any rate in the same degree , by the cord , point to a difference of tension , and therefore of relation with the substances which act as poisons .
This consideration will apply where the differences of susceptibility and of tension are not so marked .
But this is only part of a still wider question the different action of poisons on different classes of animals .
The explanation is still the same .
Difference in the functional energy or activity of corresponding nervecentres implies difference of tension .
The following facts bear strikingly on this point:1 .
Anaesthetics affect all classes of animals alike , i. e. when the effect is a general arrest of oxidation .
2 .
Strychnia , which acts on the cord , affects all animals alike .
The spinal system is the centre which is most similar in its endowments in all classes of vertebrates .
3 .
The poisons which have the most diverse action on different animals are such as in man act on the cerebral ganglia .

