LEP1D0PTERA.\#151 ; A. E. EATON .
Lepidoptera.\#151 ; By th Rev. Eaton .
Larvae of at least two , perhaps of three , species of Lepidoptera were obtained in the vicinage of Observatory Bay .
One sort was occasionally brought off to the ships by the men in gatherings of Bringlea in October and the early part of November .
It would probably develop into a moth about as large as an Agrotis of medium size , and was conjectured to belong to the Noctuina ( Etn .
, Proc. Boy .
Soc. 1875 , xxiii .
354 ) .
Its affinities , however , may he very different , as it is likely to have been the larva of the insects referred to by Dr. Kidder as " lepidopterous \#171 ; insects of moderate size , with very imperfect and abbreviated wings , active in " their movements , and . . .
with . . .
antennae . . .
long and thread-like " ... [ and labial palpi ] " pectinate , and curling backward over the top of the head .
" These were obtained by him " on the evening of December 18 ... .
from the " roots of grass " ( Kidder , Bulletin U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
, 50 ) .
If the larvae above mentioned and these moths are the same insect , the condition of the palpi of the imago seems to indicate that it is related to the And this supposition is quite consistent with the form of some other larvae ( believed to be younger examples of the species obtained in October ) which were found commonly in moss in December and Eebruary near Observatory Bay .
They could be identified on the island , in situ , by the following brief description .
Larva Gelechiidiform with 16 legs , grey , paler beneath and along the spiracles ; head and dorsum of first segment pale corneous , the usual raised dots of the other segments dark grey , shining , each bearing , \#151 ; some a short , others a long , \#151 ; testaceous hair .
Length 13 mm. and upwards .
Common in wet places on the hill sides near the sea , making galleries in moss .
All of these larvae died before our arrival at the Cape .
( Etn .
, Proc. Boy .
Soc. 1875 , xxiii .
504 ) .
In Sir J. Hooker 's MS .
Journal mention is made of a moth with rudimentary wings clothed with mouse-coloured hair found at Christmas Harbour , which may have been Dr. Kidder 's insect .
The other larvae observed belonged to the moth described below .
Dr. Kidder reports .
" a single flying tineid moth was observed soon after our " landing , but supposed to be a clotlies-moth from our own boxes .
" This could not have been the Embry onopsis because that is unable to fly ; and as no other instance is on record of a moth being seen on the wing in Kerguelen Island , there is good reason for concurring in the opinion that it was an introduced species .
Endrosis fenestrellahad been transported to Cape Town in some boxes belonging to the English expedition a few weeks earlier .
Embryonopsis , , 1875 .
Imago .
Labial palpi long , recurved , smooth ; the first joint very short , the second of moderate length , the third longer than the other two together , tapering G g 2 to an acute point .
Antennae simple , filiform , the basal joint slightly larger than any of the others ; in the $ as long as the abdomen , in the ?
rather shorter .
Anterior wings subcorneous , aeuminately ovate , convex , extending almost to*the apex of the abdomen in the \lt ; ?
, and only as far as its middle in the ?
; longitudinal nervures 5 , simple , the subcosta extending nearly to the middle of the costa , the next two nervures subequal and just falling short of the apex of the wing , the fifth terminating about as far from the fourth , as the fourth from the third ; no transverse veinlets ; the posterior wings extremely minute , not reaching even to the base of the abdomen ; posterior femora thickened ; genital appendices of $ abnormal , very broad , comprising two lateral pairs arising from the pleuro-ventral region ; \#165 ; the ovipostor 2-jointed , extensile .
Larva Gelechiidiform , with 16 legs .
The smoothness of the head , and the conformation of the tri-articulate labial palpi , together with the form of the larva , attest the relationship of to the Gelecliiidce .
The exceptional shortness of the wings , and the presence in the male of an outer pair of lateral appendages ensheathing an inner pair , and also the broadness of these last , readily distinguish it from other genera in that family .
Embryonopsis halticella .
( PI .
XIV .
, fig. 8 .
) Eaton , Ent .
Mo. Mag. 1875 , xii .
61 .
See also E. Boubleday , Ann. Ent .
Soc. Er .
1848 , Bull .
, p. lxiii ; Thomson , Good Words , 1874 , November , p. 750 ; Eaton , Proc. Boy .
Soc. 1875 , xxiii .
354 ; Moseley , Journ. Lin .
Soc. Botany , 1876 , xv .
54 .
Imago ?
, sooty black varied with ochraceous ; antenna ) black , their basal joint , the vertex , and the palpi , sprinkled with ochraceous ; fore wings with a wide longitudinal ochraceous streak through the middle ; hind wings pale ; legs somewhat ochraceous ; abdomen ochraceous at the sides ; in the $ the last dorsal segment is triangular and is bifid at the apex , the last ventral segment is semielliptical ; the outer pair of lateral appendages parabolic , papyraceous , about half as long as the inner , externally clothed with scales , internally glabrous and smooth ; inner pair of lateral appendages corneous , very closely invested by the outer pair , and very broad , subcircular , externally flatly convex , lutescent , polished and glabrous , traversed with a few fine raised lines , and slightly incrassated towards the margin , furnished at the extreme base with a series of very long appressed hairs which spread fanwise over them ; internally they are very abundantly furnished with an ochraceous tomentum disposed in slender toothlike bundles ; lower penis cover ( ?
) linear lanceolate , longitudinally concave above , narrowed suddenly to a slender point whose extreme apex is slightly turned upwards , piceous ; penis sheaths strong , slender , tapering , finger-like , slightly arcuate , connivent towards their tips , and strongly bearded beneath with rigid obliquely set testaceous bristles ; upper penis cover scaphoid , carinate , obtuse , testaceous .
Long. corp .
5\#151 ; 5*5 mm. Larva .
\#151 ; Bull pale yellowish , with the paler dorsal line bordered by a pale brownish lilac stripe on each side extending from the first to the penultimate LEPIDOPTERA.\#151 ; A. E. EATON .
segment .
Head dark piceous ; first segment with a transverse dorsal fuscous blotch which posteriorly is incised by the dorsal line ; spiracles , the usual dots and their hairs , two dorsal spots on the penultimate segment , the dorsum of the last segment and a spot at the base of each of its prolegs on the outer side , black .
Prons pale green .
Long. corp .
" 5 lines , " probably a note-book error for 5 mm. Hab.\#151 ; Common in the vicinage of Loyal Sound .
The larva was found on the 17th of November ( the first day the imago was noticed ) , feeding upon and residing within the sheathing leaves of the young shoots of Festuca cookii .
Several specimens were obtained in patches of that grass close to the shore in Observatory Bay .
It was afterwards detected in other places , and in shoots of F. erect a. The moth also occurs on the slopes of the inland hills .
It is unusual for larvae belonging to this family to burrow within grass shoots .
The homologies attributed to the elements of the genital armature above , are different from those which were given in the original description .
Subsequent examination of the genitalia in recent representatives of most of the principal groups of Lepidoptera has led to a modification of the views entertained in 1875 concerning the nature of some of the parts .
What was then taken to be the termination of the anus is now believed to be in no way connected with that outlet , and is considered to be a portion of the accessories of the genital apparatus ; and similarly that which was specified as the penis in the earlier diagnosis , is now described as the lower penis cover .
Many persons would doubtless be disposed to question the validity of this last correction , and maintain that the earlier view was the right one ; but so far as has been ascertained the penis in the Lepidoptera is in most , if not in all cases , an erectile , membraneous introvertible tube , which is invisible in dried examples .
This tube , which can be protruded by means of pressure in the living insect or one freshly killed , is closed at the apex by a sphincter , which is relaxed spasmodically at intervals to discharge a coloured fluid supposed to be meconium , until a doubt led to its being examined under a high power , when it was discovered to be in all cases crowded with spermatozoa .
The lower penis cover projects immediately below this membraneous tube , and in the present insect is longitudinally concave above , as if with a view to its accommodation ; and there is some reason for suspecting that it enters the vagina simultaneously with the penis .
The upper penis cover is used in the introversion of the penis after it has been distended , thrusting it inwards as it were with the pecks of a bird 's beak by its up and down motion .
Plate XIV .
, fig. 8 , Embry onopsis halticella ( from above ) .
, head ( from the side ) ; 5 , anterior wing ; c , appendages of \lt ; ?
( from the side ) ; 1 and c1* inner lateral appendages ( from without and from within ) ; cl genitalia $ ( from the side , the lateral appendages being removed ) ; p , upper penis cover ; q , penis sheaths ; r , lower penis cover ( ?
) .

