252 Dr. J. Kerr .
Experiments on a [ Mar. 15 , III .
" Experiments on a Fundamental Question in Electro-Optics : Reduction of Relative Retardations to Absolute .
" By John Kerr , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received March 9 , 1894 .
To prepare the way , I begin by recalling these well-known facts : that when light passes through an electrostatically strained medium in a direction perpendicular to the line of electric force , it undergoes a uni-axal double refraction , the optic axis coinciding with the line of force ; that with reference to this action , dielectrics are divisible into two classes , the positive* and the negative , f which are optically related to each other in the same way as the positive class of crystals to the negative ; that the intensity of the action , or the quantity of optical effect per unit thickness of the dielectric , is measured by the product CF2 , where C is a constant which is characteristic of the medium , and P is the value of the resultant electric force : that the effects are generally observed and examined still as they were discovered first , by simple experiments with a pair of Nicol 's prisms and a slip of strained glass or other phase-difference compensator .
In every such experiment the effect specified by the compensator is a difference of phases , or a relative retardation ; and we may therefore view it as a resultant effect\#151 ; that is to say , as the resultant , or the difference , of electrically-generated absolute retardations of two component lights , whose planes of polarisation are parallel and perpendicular to the line of electric force .
What , then , are the values of these two absolute retardations in any given case P What are the two absolute components of any electrically-generated relative retardation ?
Such is the question here proposed for solution by experiment .
As long ago as 1882 , and several years following , I was much occupied at intervals with this interesting question .
In the summer of 1885 , in some experiments with the dielectric CS2 , I obtained results as decisive as could be desired .
Other dielectrics , both solid and liquid , were tried afterwards , but only with partial success , the experimental difficulties being , in some cases , too much for my methods and time .
To these cases I shall make no further reference , as I will keep to the one line of experiment , and to those experiments in particular in which the indications were quite regular and unmis-takeable .
With these limitations , the inductions extend to four liquid dielectrics , two positive and two negative ; and all the experiments point clearly in one direction .
General Result.\#151 ; It appears that the proper and immediate optical * Carbon disulphide , the hydrocarbons , \amp ; c. f Amyl oxide , the heavy oils , \amp ; c. 1894 .
] Fundamental Question in .
253 effect of electric strain is a positive or negative retardation of the one component light whose plane of polarisation is perpendicular to the line of force , the sign of the retardation being , of course , the same as the nominal sign of the dielectric .
Therefore , of two vibrations which are ( on Fresnel 's hypothesis ) perpendicular and parallel respectively to the line of force , it is only the latter that is immediately affected by the electric strain , this vibration along the line of force having its velocity of transmission retarded or accelerated according as the dielectric is of the positive class or the negative .
I venture to regard this result as a general law of double refraction in electro-optics , though the proof extends only to four different dielectrics .
As the best proof that I can offer , I will merely give a condensed historical sketch of the experiments .
It will be seen in this way how the law was first suggested and then confirmed by the phases of a new electro-optic effect .
It will be seen also that the proof of the law is independent of all hypotheses , independent even of everything previously known in electro-optics .
The Plate Cell is a piece used in all the experiments .
There is an Ea.rCh 1 1 1 i Ullr F tgt .
end-view of it given in the adjacent figure .
It consists of five slabs of plate glass , each 10 in .
by 7f in .
, arranged face to face in one block .
The inner rectangle represents a tunnel ( 5S in .
by in .
) which passes right through the block .
Inside are shown the conductors with supporting frame , the shaded pieces being of brass , and the unshaded of plate glass .
The lengths of the conductors , at right angles to the plane of the figure ( and parallel to the light ) , are 6^- in .
and 7^ in .
, the thickness of the cell being nearly 8 in .
By means of wires , which \#187 ; pass through the wall of the cell , , the internal conductors are con254 Dr. J. Kerr .
Experiments on a [ Mar. 15 , nected with , prime conductor and earth , as indicated in the figure .
It is understood , of course , that the surfaces of the two conductors are well planed and polished , all corners and edges rounded off , and the two fronting faces accurately parallel .
The cell is closed , in the usual way , by panes of plate glass laid against the ends , and the whole block is kept together by a screw-press .
Two borings in one of the plates provide for the filling and emptying .
When the cell is put in order and charged with CS2 , and examined according to the old method ( with a pair of crossed nicols ) , it gives a very pure double refraction , and acts well in all respects , except that ( from deficiency of insulation ) the largest effect is less than might be expected , hardly amounting to one average wave-length of relative retardation .
But this defect is of no great consequence .
The First Experimental Arrangement is shown in the next diagram , in hoi'izontal section through the lamp L and the observer 's eye E , but without strict regard to scale .
r , g Two -|-in .
plates of glass are represented in section by the rectangles PQ , RS .
Their function is the same as that of the two plates in Jamin 's interference refractometer.* The plates are , therefore , parallel-surfaced , and of accurately equal thickness , and are silvered on the back as mirrors ; and in their working positions they are almost exactly vertical and parallel , and at 45 ' to the light .
A pencil of light , LB , which passes through a vertical slit in front of the lamp , is incident on the first plate at B , and is divided , in the manner shown in the diagram , into two pencils , BDCGr and BFHGr ; and from ( x the light proceeds anew as one pencil , and passes through a narrow circular diaphragm , f which is fixed at E in front of the observer 's eye .
* Preston 's ' Theory of Light , ' p. 157 .
f Or , otherwise , through a telescope .
1894 .
] Fundamental Question in Electro-Optics .
255 The result of the arrangement is that , when the pieces are properly placed , the bright vertical slit L , as seen from E in the direction EG , is crossed by a set of interference-fringes .
These are well defined in position by reference to a constant black line , the image of a fine wire which is fixed across the slit L. It may be assumed , without argument , that any small increase or decrease of velocity of one of the pencils BF , CG , will produce a positive or negative displacement of the fringes , at the rate of one fringe-width of displacement for every wave-length of relative retardation .
As far as the assumption is required , it is easily verified by the introduction of thin plates of glass into the course of the light , anywhere between the two thick plates ; and I find in this way , definitely , that ( as the pieces actually stand in the diagram and in all the experiments ) an ascent of the fringes indicates a relative retardation of the pencil BF .
There are two essential pieces that remain to be noticed , of which the first is the electro-optic cell .
It is shown in the diagram how the laterally separated component pencils pass through the cell , BF through the electric field , and CG through the space electrically screened by the second conductor , this conductor being always to earth .
The last piece is a Nicol 's prism N , which is placed in the path of either of the single pencils GE , LB , with its principal section laid ( 1 ) horizontally and ( 2 ) vertically .
The design of the apparatus will now be apparent , which is to give the means of detecting electrically generated changes of velocity of the light BF in two successive cases , when the plane of polarisation is ( 1 ) perpendicular to the lines of force , and ( 2 ) parallel to the lines of force .
But in actual experiment there is a difficulty encountered at once , which appears at first sight to be insurmountable .
r ; Disturbance of the Fringes.\#151 ; Suppose all the pieces placed as in the diagram , the cell nearly filled with carbon disulphide , the second internal conductor put permanently to earth , and the fringes obtained in good form and position .
When connexion is made between the first internal conductor and the knob of a charged Leyden jar whose outer coating is to earth , there is an immediate disturbance of the fringes , a set of large and irregular movements , with deformations , ending in the disappearance of the whole system in one or two seconds .
The effects are seen better when the first internal conductor is connected permanently with the prime conductor and an attached Leyden jar , for the potential can then be raised regularly and very slowly from zero , and the full course of the disturbance takes a longer time ; but in other respects the phenomena are the same as before .
When the fringes have been extinguished in this .way by the electric action , it is easy to recover them , either by putting the prime Conductor to earth , or by keeping the potential at a sensibly constant I VOL. lv .
t 250 Dr. J. Kerr .
Experiments on a [ Mar. 15 , value , high or low , for a little time .
If with this view the machine he kept working at a constant rate throughout the experiment , the extinguished fringes return gradually into the optical field , and in a little time ( twenty to eighty turns of the plate ) they are as clearly visible as they were before disturbance ; their forms also are good , and their positions approximately constant , though they do not often continue quite motionless in such circumstances , even for a fraction of a second .
If the prime conductor be now put to earth for a little , and the experiment be then repeated , the disturbance passes through all the same phases as formerly , though it is more violent at starting as the preceding interval of rest is longer .
All these effects come out equally well with common light , and with light polarised in the two principal planes .
This optical disturbance is evidently a remote effect of the electric action , produced immediately\#151 ; not by electric strain\#151 ; but by irregular changes of density in the medium .
We know that in the present cell , as in every like arrangement , the electric action throws the liquid into currents , which pervade all parts of the cell and are very intense at high potential .
These material currents explain the changes of density ; for , at starting , they give rise to a rapid process ' of mixture , forcing denser masses upward into the course of the light , \amp ; c. , and , afterwards , when the mixture is completed , they are still accompanied by irregular variations of pressure in the liquid .
It should be easy , therefore , to imitate the effects by means purely mechanical ; and of this I can give an example from actual observation .
A plate cell , about an inch thick and open at the top , was charged with water , and placed in the course of the pencils BF , CD , immediately behind the electro-optic cell ; and the fringes were obtained in good form and position .
The stirring of this water gave a set of optical effects that could not be distinguished from the former disturbance .
And when the fringes , extinguished in this way mechanically , were well restored and made moderately steady by regular stirring kept up for a time , I found that a disturbance of the same kind could be obtained at pleasure , either by an interval of rest ( the longer fche better ) , or by the addition of a little warm water .
But leaving this and returning to the electro-optic experiments , I proceed to show how , in spite of these irregular movements of the fringes , and in the midst of them all , it is possible to obtain a steady effect , which corresponds perfectly to the known bi-refringent action of the medium .
Regular Dislocation of the Fringes.\#151 ; The electric arrangements are the same as formerly , the two internal conductors being connected permanently , the first with the prime conductor , and the second with earth .
There is only one change made in the apparatus ; the nic 1894 .
] Fundamental Question in Electro-Optics .
N is withdrawn , and a small rhomb of Iceland spar ( about 8 cm .
long ) is put in its place at E , with principal section horizontal .
In this way the two systems of fringes which were given by the nicol N in succession are now given simultaneously , side by side , and each the exact prolongation of the other ; the successive systems ( * ) of the next diagram are changed into the double system ( / 3 , 7 ) .
The machine is now set in motion .
The system Q3 , 7 ) is disturbed as was the system ( a ) formerly ; but in the midst of the disturbance , and as long as the fringes are clearly visible , the sets ( / 3 ) and ( 7 ) are 00 $ 7 " s e seen to be relatively displaced , the system ( / ?
, 7 ) being changed into the system ( \#163 ; , e ) .
The extent of the dislocation increases as the potential rises ; that shown in the diagram , which is about three-fourths of the fringe-width , is not much below the highest that can be got with the apparatus .
The direction of the dislocation is constant , and indicates a relative retardation of that vibration in the electric field which is parallel to the line of force ; and this agrees with the known character of the medium CS2 as a positive dielectric .
It is very interesting to watch the two sets of fringes ( \#163 ; ) and ( c ) , and to see them sometimes moving rapidly and very fitfully , but moving always as one system , with its two parts dislocated unchangingly , except so far as the extent of the dislocation varies with varying potential .
It is equally interesting to see the effect of spark-discharge of the prime conductor , especially from high potential .
At the instant of the spark there is a sudden disappearance of the dislocation , an extremely quick jump of the fringes into line with each other , and this without perceptible check or sudden change of any kind in the disturbance-motion common to the two sets at the time .
The best way of observing the effect is to take sparks from prime conductor to earth at stated intervals , while the machine is kept working at some constant rate .
The dislocation then Dr. J. Kerr .
Experiments on a [ Mar. 15 , reappears immediately after each of the sparks , increasing regularly from zero as the potential rises , and then increasing and decreasing quickly or slowly as the potential rises and falls quickly or slowly .
Even when the potential falls most rapidly , as in spark-discharge , the direction of the backward jump is always evident to the eye ; otherwise the disappearance of the dislocation in that case is so very quick that one would call it instantaneous .
Very little need be said upon the optical theory of these phenomena .
What must be remembered is , that each of the sets of fringes ( S ) and ( e ) is due to the interference of two such pencils as BF and CG reunited in GE , the vibrations being horizontal in one pair of interfering pencils , and vertical in the other pair .
With regard to changes of refringent power which are due to mechanical disturbance , it may be assumed that these are independent of the direction of the vibration : both pairs of pencils are therefore similarly and equally affected at each instant , and the corresponding displacements of the two sets of fringes are at each instant similar and equal , however irregularly they may vary from one instant to another .
It is otherwise with the bi-refringent action of the medium ; for here the two pairs of pencils are differently affected at each instant , and the difference is determined solely by value of potential , so that the corresponding effect comes out steadily in the midst of all the irregular changes which are produced by mechanical disturbance of the dielectric .
I think it must be admitted that in this regular dislocation of the fringes there is a new and clear presentment of the double refraction which is produced by electric strain .
I think also that the new effect is made all the more suggestive by the regularity and perfect steadiness with which it comes out in the midst of the disturbance .
First Appearance of the Law.\#151 ; Before leaving the present experiments I must notice one or two facts observed , but not yet mentioned , that go towards a solution of the question with which we started .
The phenomena to which I refer were seen clearly enough in some of the earlier experiments ; but it was only at a later stage that they were well understood , and they were then obtained more regularly .
Beginning with the last form of the experiment\#151 ; that with the rhomb of Iceland spar as eye-piece .
The spar , I should mention , was always so placed that the plane of polarisation in the set of fringes ( e ) was vertical .
What I have to notice now is a peculiar feature of the jump of the fringes at the instant of discharge .
To a carefully strained , as to an unstrained , attention , this jump appeared as a movement of the set of fringes ( e ) down to the level of the set ( \#163 ; ) , never as a movement of the set ( S ) up to the level of the set ( e)-I must say , however , that the accuracy of this perception or judgment was to myself in some degree doubtful , not because of any expectation that could have led to it , but because of the very fugitive character 1894 .
] Fundamental Question in Electro-Optics .
259 of the phenomenon , and its partial obscuration in many cases by disturbance .
I Returning , therefore , to the first form of experiment , that with the nicol N as eye-piece .
When the principal section of N was horizontal , and the vibration directed therefore along the line of force , there was a perfectly regular jump of the fringes downwards at the instant of discharge j and at high potential the effect was large and strikingly distinct .
When the principal section was vertical , there was nothing regular of this kind seen in any of a large number of observations : there were disturbance-movements at or about the instant of discharge , as before and after , but nothing that could be1 accepted as a regular jump of the fringes at that instant , always in one direction or always in the other .
The interpretation of these results is obvious .
I have already stated , as a matter of observation , that a rise of the fringes indicates a relative retardation of the pencil BF which passes through the electric field .
From the downward jump of the fringes in one of the two cases , we infer therefore that the pencil BF is in that case relatively accelerated in consequence of discharge .
But in the present experiment , and with reference to the pencil BF in relation to the pencil CGr , it is evident that relative acceleration and absolute are equivalent ; because it is only in that division of the cell through which the pencil BF passes that there is any sudden physical change at the instant of discharge .
It appears , therefore , that to relieve the liquid of electric strain , is to relieve one of the vibrations ( that along the line of force ) of an absolute retardation , leaving the perpendicular vibration unaffected .
' In several of the later sets of these experiments with CS2 as dielectric , and with nicol 1ST as eye-piece , I got what appeared to be a perfectly clean liquid .
The potential also was made to vary regularly and very slowly ; and from both causes the disturbance was very much reduced .
The effects then were these :\#151 ; Principal section of N horizontal : a slow ascent of the fringes during the process of charge , pretty regular , but often obscured and sometimes overpowered by disturbance ; the contrary jump seen always at the instant of discharge .
Principal section of N vertical : irregular , and generally very small oscillations of the fringes during the process of charge ; but no regular motion in one direction or the other exclusively , either during the process of charge , or at the instant of spark-discharge from high potential .
From all these experiments with CS2\gt ; it seems to follow that of the two principal vibrations , the only one immediately and regularly affected by electric strain is that along the line of force .
This conclusion requires and well deserves to be verified ; and I proceed to Verify it by another method , or rather by the use of new means .
The Second Experimental Arrangement.\#151 ; The optical instrument 2tf0 Dr- J- Kerr .
Experiments on a [ Mar. 15 , here used is known as Jamin 's Interference Refractor for polarised light .
For a description of it I might refer to a paper already published ; * but I think I ought rather to describe the apparatus here agaiD .
The essential pieces are shown in horizontal section in the following diagram .
f ig .
R and S are large blocks of Iceland spar , of equal thickness , their principal sections horizontal , and their faces parallel .
A pencil of light from a vertical slit L , passes through a Foucault 's prism H , and is polarized by it at 45 ' to the vertical , and then enters the rhomb R. The two pencils emergent from R pass immediately through a half-wave plate P , so placed as to interchange the two planes of polarisation .
Ordinary pencil and extra-ordinary in the crystal R become thus extra-ordinary and ordinary in S , and the bi-re-fringement action of R is neutralised by that of S. The light enters R and leaves S as a single pencil , but between P and S it passes as a couple of pencils , BF and CG , about 14 mm. apart , and polarised in planes vertical and horizontal .
The pencil emergent from S is received at E through a IsTicol 's prism 1ST , which is laid as for extinction with the Foucault H. When all the pieces have been properly placed , the slit L is seen crossed by a set of interference-fringes , and these are modified at pleasure by fine screw movements of the spar S. The electro-optic cell is not given in the diagram .
It is the same piece as that shown in the diagram of the first arrangement , and is placed here exactly as there , so that the two laterally-separated component pencils pass normally through it , BF through the electric field , and CG behind the second conductor .
The only other optical piece employed in the experiments is a Jamin 's Glass Compensator , f which is placed immediately in front of the spar S ; it enables the observer to specify small differences of retardation of the pencils BF and CG .
The results obtained formerly ( with nicol ET as eye-piece ) were fully verified with the new apparatus .
The method finally adopted as the best was so similar to the former , and the effects also , that any long description of the experiments would be superfluous .
But to give a fair view of the results I will describe one day s work .
* " On the Bi-refringent Action of Strained Glass , " ' Phil. Mag. ' for October , 1888 .
f Preston 's 4 Theory of Light/ p. 159 .
1894 .
] Fundamental Question in Electro-Optics .
Final Experiments with CS2.\#151 ; The first internal conductor connected permanently with prime conductor without Leyden jar , the liquid quite clean , and the conditions of electric work perfect all day .
The observations were taken in five successive sets .
First Set.\#151 ; Plane of polarisation of the pencil BF ( through the electric field ) vertical , or perpendicular to line of force : Rise of fringes indicates relative retardation of that pencil .
When the fringes were obtained in good form and position , the machine was started , and kept working at a constant rate throughout the experiment .
As formerly , the first effect was a large disturbance , the fringes being displaced and deformed , and disappearing altogether at the second or third turn of the plate ; but in a little time ( thirty or forty turns ) they reappeared in good form and approximately constant position .
For distinctness of effect the central fringe was brought back to the line of reference ( generally downwards ) by a small screw movement of the spar S ; and then , at every spark from prime conductor to earth , there was a quick downward jump of the fringes , the effect being as distinct as possible from the irregular and slow and generally small movements that went on before and after the spark .
As the experiment proceeded the liquid was more thoroughly mixed , the disturbance decreased , and the effect came out much more purely .
Sparks were taken repeatedly at every 3rd , 5th , 10th , 15th turn of the plate , and the jump was there in every instance , and beautifully distinct .
The extent of the jump varied from about one-third of the fringe-width at every 5th turn of the plate to about three-fourths at every 10th turn .
I should add that the disturbance movements , though they were greatly reduced at last , were still such as to prevent any good static observation of the fringes .
It is proved clearly by this set of observations that when the plane of polarisation is perpendicular to the line of force the light is absolutely retarded by electric strain .
The spars R and S were now turned round LE through 180 ' , and the pieces were moved across the optic bench into good position .
Second Set.\#151 ; Plane of polarisation of the pencil BF ( through the electric field ) horizontal : Rise of the fringes indicates a relative retardation of that pencil .
The method was the same as in the first set , sparks being taken from prime conductor to earth at regular intervals , long and short .
When the initial disturbance was over , movements of the fringes were still seen , sometimes in one direction and sometimes in the other , but not exclusively or specially at the instant of discharge .
These disturbance movements were slow and generally small ; and as the experiment proceeded they became very faint , and were occasionally not seen at all for a little time .
As to the effect specially looked for , I need only say that in several scores 262 Dr. J. Kerr .
Experiments on a [ Mar. 15 , of observations , taken at different potentials , high and low , there was not a trace observed of a regular jump of the fringes at the instant of discharge .
It appears , therefore , that when the plane of polarisation is parallel to the line of force , the light is neither retarded or accelerated by electric strain .
The spars It and S were now turned back through 180 ' .
Third Set.\#151 ; The same again as the first .
Many obseiwations were taken , and the former effects were obtained regularly ; but they were now more striking , because of the strong contrast with the negative results of the set of observations immediately preceding .
The action appeared also to be stronger than before , probably because of improved insulation .
The extent of the jump , taken at every 5th turn of the plate , was now half the fringe-width ; and at every 10th or 15th turn it was clearly four-fifths .
I find in my notes that this large jump of the fringes impressed me here , again and again , as a thing peculiarly beautiful .
Fourth Set.\#151 ; The same again as the second .
The only question in this case was , whether it might still be possible , by the most careful work and under the best conditions attainable , to detect a very small jump of the fringes at the instant of discharge .
Many observations were taken at high potential , some at the highest , but without a trace of effect of that kind .
Fifth Set.\#151 ; The same again as the first .
The results of the first and third sets were recovered regularly .
Sparks were then taken , sometimes at every turn of the plate , sometimes oftener .
At every spark there was a very small downward jump of the fringes , so small sometimes as to be barely caught , but quite regular and beautifully distinct .
Femarlts.\#151 ; The jump of the fringes was chosen as the principal object of observation , because it was never quite concealed , nor even much obscured , by the mechanical disturbance of the liquid ; but I should add that the contrary motion\#151 ; the gradual ascent of the fringes during the process of charging\#151 ; was generally evident enough in the experiments , though not often undisturbed or quite regular in its course .
The best observations were got when the fringes happened to continue at rest through a sensible interval of time , including the instant of discharge .
The contrast between the two cases was then very remarkable , especially at high potential ; in the one case , the beautifully clear jump so often mentioned ; in the other case , no trace of a jump in either direction , generally not even a perceptible shiver of the fringes at the instant of strongest discharge .
Instances of this kind occurred not very rarely in the experiments ; and there could be no contrast more striking than that between the phenomena in the two cases .
1894 .
] Fundamental Question Electro-Optics .
263 From what I know of the apparatus and its performance I am sure that no regular and abrupt retardation or acceleration amounting to as much as the hundredth part of an average wave-length could have escaped observation in the experiments .
It will be remembered also that the jump of the fringes at high potential extended to four-fifths of the fringe width .
With reference , therefore , to the dielectric CS2 , and the two principal vibrations parallel and perpendicular to the line of force , it appears that the regular effect of the electric strain upon one of the vibrations is a positive retardation , while upon the other vibration there is very probably no effect whatever , and certainly no effect as large as the eightieth part of the former .
Second Positive Dielectric : A paraffin oil , specific gravity 0845 .
This liquid was far inferior to CS2 electrically , and also as an optical medium .
The method of experiment finally adopted as the best was a little different from that with CL2 .
The prime conductor had its capacity enlarged by connexion with a Leyden jar ; the machine was kept working at a constant rate , and the prime conductor was partially discharged , at short and regular intervals , by sparks upon the knob of the first internal conductor , which was of course discharged in each interval .
The phenomenon looked for was a quick motion of the fringes at the instant of the spark ; that is , at the instant of electric charging of the liquid .
( 1 .
) Plane of polarisation of the pencil BF ( through the electric field ) vertical : Rise of fringes indicates relative retardation of this pencil .
At the instant of the spark there was a quick upward jump of the fringes through something like one-fifth of the fringe width , generally followed by a set of large and comparatively slow disturbance-movements .
In most cases also , immediately after the spark , the observer was able to detect the contrary jump quite clearly by laying his finger on the knob of the first conductor .
Through a long set of observations , taken at different potentials , the upward jump of the fringes at the instant of charging was obtained with perfect regularity ; and\#151 ; amplitude excepted\#151 ; the effect was not inferior to that in CS2 .
( 2 .
) Plane of polarisation of the pencil BF horizontal : Rise of fringes indicates relative retardation of BF .
Many observations were taken at different potentials , high and low .
There were sluggish and irregular disturbance movements , great and small , but no trace 'f a regular jump of the fringes in one direction or the other at the instant of the spark .
There could be no doubt as to the true meaning 'f these results .
In this positive dielectric , as in CS2 , the vibration along the line of force is retarded by electric strain , and the perpendicular vibration is unaffected .
First Negative Dielectric : Oil of Colza.\#151 ; This liquid also was far inferior to CS2 , especially as an optical medium .
The method of 264 On a Fundamental Question Electro-Optics .
[ Mar. 15 } experiment ; followed with paraffin was retained here as the best ; the first internal conductor was charged by spark from the prime conductor at regular intervals , and was put to earth for a moment in each interval .
( 1 .
) Plane of polarisation of the pencil BF vertical : Eise of fringes indicates relative retardation of BF .
The fringes were generally curved and very imperfect at the beginning of an experiment , but a , few successive charges brought them , after some disturbance , into permanently good form , and then there was a quick downward jump , seen always at the instant of the spark .
And , as in the contrary case of paraffin , this jump was a thing as distinct as possible from the sluggish and irregular disturbance-movements by which it was generally followed .
When the spark was taken at every 10th turn of the plate , the potential was about as high as the liquid could bear , and the extent of the jump was fully one-fifth of the fringe-width .
In the course of a long set of observations this downward jump of the fringes at the instant of charging was seen with perfect regularity , and always distinctly .
In this case , therefore , the regular optical effect of electric strain was an acceleration .
( 2 .
) Plane of polarisation of the pencil BF horizontal : Eise of fringes indicates relative retardation of BF .
When the fringes were imperfect at starting , the effects of a few successive charges were the same as in the first case , irregular displacements and changes of inclination , the fringes generally rising and falling in their lower and higher parts till they came into permanently good form .
Afterwards there were smaller disturbances always present in this case as in the former ; but neither there nor here were they such as to interfere ultimately with exact observation .
The experiment was carried on for some time till the liquid was well mixed and the fringes good .
Many observations were then taken , some of them at highest potential , but there was no trace of a jump ever seen at the instant of the spark .
In this liquid , therefore , as in carbon disulphide and paraffin , the only one of the two principal vibrations which is affected by electric strain is that along the line of force ; but , as the present dielectric is of the negative class , the retardation produced is negative .
Second Negative Dielectric : Seal Oil.\#151 ; From want of homogeneity this liquid was very defective optically , the image of the slit L being much deformed and sometimes broken by streaks .
The defect was remedied in a good degi'ee by strong charges given to the liquid on both sides of the second conductor .
The method of experiment was the same as with oil of colza .
( 1 .
) Plane of polarisation of the pencil BF vertical : Eise of fringes indicates relative retardation of BF .
At first , the electricity produced very large displacements and deformations of the fringes , in 1894.1 On the Liquation of Silver-Copper Alloys .
the midst of which there was no regular effect to be seen ; but as the experiment went on , and the medium improved , the expected effect came out distinctly : a quick downward jump of the fringes at or immediately after the instant of the spark .
Under good optical conditions , and at potentials high and low , the effect was perfectly regular , and was distinct and pure as that in oil of colza , though apparently not quite so large .
( 2 .
) Plane of polarisation of the pencil BP horizontal : Rise of fringes indicates relative retardation of BP .
The disturbance of the fringes was greatly reduced as the experiment went on , till at last there was nothing left but a set of slow movements , very irregular and very small , sometimes invisible .
In the midst of these , as in their absence , and in a long set of observations , taken at different potentials , from low to highest , there was no trace ever seen of a jump of the fringes at the instant of the spark .
It appears , therefore , that in this negative dielectric , as in oil of colza , the total optical effect of electric strain is an acceleration of the vibration which is directed along the line of force .
The conclusion to be drawn from the preceding experiments has been stated already by anticipation ; but I repeat it finally in other terms as follows:\#151 ; If light pass through an electrostatically-strained medium at right angles to the lines of force , and be represented by two component lights whose planes of polarisation are respectively parallel to the lines of force and perpendicular , then the proper and immediate optical effect of the electric strain is a change of velocity of the latter component.* The use of the words proper and immediate in this statement may be thought objectionable ; but some such words are required for the purpose here chiefly intended , which is to exclude those undoubtedly remote effects of electric action that appeared as disturbances in all the experiments .
TV .
" On the Liquation of Silver-Copper Alloys .
" By Edward Matthey , F.C.S. , Assoc. Roy .
Sch .
Mines .
Communicated by Sir G. G. Stokes , F.R.S. Received February 16,1894 .
It is a well-known fact that during the solidification of certain alloys groups of the constituent metals fall out of solution , giving rise to the phenomenon called " liquation .
" The molecular arrangement which results from this behaviour of alloys has been investigated by many experimenters , notably by Devol , Roberts-Austen , and Guthrie .
The author has also studied the behaviour of a large * The change of velocity in the ca3e of any positive dielectric is of course a | decrease .

