II .
" { On the General Integrals of the Equations of the Internal Equilibrium of an Elastic Solid .
" By WILLIAM JOHN MACQUORN RANKINE , Civil Engineer , F.R.SS .
Lond. &amp; Edinb .
, &amp;c. Received December 7 , 1854 .
The First Section of this paper is introductory , containing a summary of principles already known respecting the elasticity of solids .
Those principles are treated as the consequences of the following DEFINITION OF ELASTICITY , without introducing any hypothesis as to the molecular structure of bodies .
" Elasticity is the property which bodies possess of preserving determinate volumes and figures under given pressures and temperatures , and which in a homogeneous body manifests itself equally in every part of appreciable magnitude .
" The investigations are limited by the following conditions:1 .
The temperature of the elastic body is supposed to be constant and uniform .
2 .
The variations of the volumes and figures of its particles are supposed to be so small , that the elastic pressures may be considered as sensibly linear functions of those variations .
3 .
It is assumed , that the only force , besides elastic pressures , acting on the particles of the body , is that of terrestrial gravitation .
All possible small variations of volume and figure of an originally rectangular molecule , when referred to three orthogonal axes , may be resolved into six , viz. three linear dilatations or compressions , and three distortions .
In like manner the elastic pressures exerted on and by such a molecule may be resolved into six , viz. three normal pressures , and three tangential pressures .
Those six pressures are connected with each other and with the attractive force acting on the molecule , by three well-known differential equations of the first order .
They are also connected at every element of the surface of the body , by three well-known linear equations , with the components of the external force acting on that element .
The general problem to be solved is , to find the integrals of the first three equations , subject to conditions fixed by the last three .
The six variations of volume and figure of a rectangular molecule are expressed by six small fractions called " coefficients of displacement .
" If the differential of each of these fractions be multiplied by the pressure which directly tends to vary it , the sum of the products is the complete differential of a function called the Potential Energy of Elastic Forces for the molecule in question , which is sensibly a homogeneous quadratic function of the six fractions .
It has twentyone terms , and twenty-one constant coefficients , which constitute the Coefficients of Elasticity of the body , for the system of orthogonal axes chosen .
Twenty-one equations express the relations between the systems of coefficients of elasticity in a given body for any two different systems of orthogonal axes .
When a body possesses a system of orthogonal axes of elasticity , its coefficients of elasticity , when referred to these axes , are reduced to nine .
A body isotropic with respect to elasticity has but three coefficients of elasticity , which are the same for all sets of orthogonal axes , and are connected with each other by an equation .
If the Potential Energy of Elastic Forces be expressed as a homogeneous quadratic function of the six elastic pressures , its coefficients constitute the coeficients of compressibility and extensibility , and of pliability .
They have relations to the coefficients of elasticity which are consequences of the properties of determinants .
The Second Section of the paper relates to the problem of the general integration of the equations of the internal equilibrium of an Elastic Solid , especially when it is not isotropic .
The method of solution consists of the following eight processes : I. The centre of gravity of the body being ( in general ) taken for the origin of co-ordinates , the forces applied to the surface of the body are subdivided into nine systems of " R REDUCED EXTERNAL PRESSURES , " which are of such a nature , that for any integration of the external forces as originally expressed over a portion of the surface of the body , may be substituted the sum of three integrations of certain of the reduced external pressures over the three projections of that portion of the surface upon the co-ordinate planes .
By such integrations , extended to the whole of the body , are found the mean values of the nine reduced external pressures , which are connected by simple equations with the mean values , or constant terms , of the six internal elastic pressures .
The deviations of the reduced external pressures above and below their mean values , constitute nine systems of variable parts of those pressures .
II .
The eighteen coefficients of the three co-ordinates in the linear terms of the six internal elastic pressures are determined by means of eighteen equations ; viz. three equations of internal equilibrium between certain of these coefficients and the force of gravity , and fifteen equations formed by means of the conditions of equilibrium of portions of the body cut off by the co-ordinate planes , and planes parallel to them .
III .
The six constant terms , and the eighteen linear terms , of the three dilatations or compressions and the three distortions , are computed from the corresponding terms of the internal pressures by elimination , or by means of the coefficients of extensibility and compressibility , and of pliability .
The coefficients of the co-ordinates in those twenty-four terms bear linear relations to the coefficients in the linear and quadratic terms of the three projections of the molecular displacement .
IV .
The parts of the nine reduced external pressures corresponding to the constant and linear terms of the internal pressures having been determined for each element of the body 's surface and subtracted from the nine actual reduced external pressures , there remain nine residual reduced external pressures for each such element , which form three systems , each suitable for development in series of trigonometrical functions of a different pair of independent coordinates .
V. The parts of the three projections of the molecular displacement , which correspond to each system of residues of the reduced external pressures , are to be expressed by infinite series in terms of the sines and cosines of linear functions of the proper pair of independent coordinates , each order of terms containing ( except in some special cases ) four kinds of trigonometric functions , multiplied by six exponential functions of the third co-ordinate , whose parameters are the roots of an equation of the sixth order , and by twenty-four arbitrary constants .
From the expressions thus formed are to be computed symbolical expressions for the values of the system of residues or transcendental parts of the reduced external pressures , for each pair of independent co-ordinates , which , by the aid of the equation of the form of the surface of the body , are to be transformed into series containing terms in trigonometric functions of the independent co-ordinates only , multiplied by linear functions of the arbitrary constants , which are ( in general ) twenty-four times as numerous as the orders of terms .
VI .
By equating the constant factor of each term of the symbolical developments thus formed , to the constant factor of the corresponding term of the arithmetical developments found by the process IV .
, there are formed as many linear equations between the arbitrary constants and known quantities as there are constants to be determined , from which equations those constants are found .
VII .
Cases in which one ordinate intersects the surface of the body in two or more pairs of points are to be treated by a special method .
VIII .
The results of the previous processes are to be combined , and the solution of the problem completed by determining and adding.to them the displacements and rotations of the body as a whole .
The Third Section relates to the internal equilibrium of a rectangular prismatic body , Processes I. , II .
and III .
The determination of the constant and linear terms of the internal pressures , and the corresponding terms of the molecular displacements , consists in the special application of the methods of the preceding section .
The axes of figure are taken for axes of co-ordinates .
IV .
The means and differences of the transcendental residues of the reduced external pressures on each pair of faces of the prism are developed in series of trigonometric functions of the pairs of independent co-ordinates of the respective faces to which they are applied ; the series employed being of such a nature , that for the edges of the body all their terms vanish .
V. and VI .
An order having been fixed for the consideration of the forces acting on the three pairs of faces , let yz , zx , xy be that order .
Series of functions trigonometric in y and z , exponential in x , and satisfying the equations of internal equilibrium , with arbitrary constant coefficients , are taken to represent the molecular displacements produced by the residual pressures on the faces normal to x. From those series are computed series representing symbolically those residual pressures , which series being equated to the series numerically representing those pressures , the arbitrary constants are found by elimination .
The formulae thus obtained are employed to compute ideal systems of external pressures on the faces normal to y and z , called " provisional pressures , " which are developed in trigonometric functions of the independent co-ordinates of the faces to which they are conceived to be applied .
Should the provisional pressures agree with the actual residual pressures on those faces , the process is complete ; should they not so agree , the provisional pressures are to be subtracted from the actual residual pressures , leaving systems of remainders called " secondary pressures .
" The series representing the molecular displacements corresponding to the Secondary Pressures on the faces normal to y are to be found in the manner already referred to .
The formulae thus obtained are to be employed to compute an ideal system of " Provisional Secondary Pressures " on the faces normal to z , which are to be developed in trigonometric functions of x and y. Should the provisional secondary pressures thus found agree with the actual secondary pressures on the faces normal to z , the process is complete .
Should they not so agree , the provisional are to be subtracted from the actual secondary pressures , leaving a system of remainders called " Tertiary Pressures " on the faces normal to z , whose effects are to be computed in the usual manner .
Process VII .
is not required .
Process VIII .
consists in combining the terms of the molecular displacements due to the constant and linear terms of the internal pressures , the residual pressures on the faces normal to x , the se .
condary pressures on the faces normal to y , and the tertiary pressures on the faces normal to z , and finally determining and adding to the other terms , those depending on the displacements and rotations of the prism as a whole .
The Fourth Section relates to the integrals of the equations of the internal equilibrium of an isotropic elastic solid .
The constant and linear terms of the internal pressures are to be determined by the methods described in the previous sections , for all solids , whether isotropic or not .
The transcendental terms of the internal pressures and molecular displacements in an isotropic elastic solid , require a special method for their determination .
The three projections of the molecular displacement , with all their functions , in an isotropic solid , are deducible from one primitive function or series of primitive functions of the co-ordinates , by certain processes of derivation , distributive , but not necessarily commutative .
Each primitive function must satisfy the condition / d2 d2 de\O , \dx'2 dy2 'dzg Y and may belong to one or other of eight classes , according as it is even or odd with respect to x , y and z. The processes of derivation applicable to the primitive functions contain three arbitrary constants for each primitive function .
Hence when there is a series of primitive functions of different orders , there are twenty-four arbitrary constants for each order of terms .
In the developments of the residual external pressures , there are also twenty-four constant coefficients for each order of terms , of which the arbitrary constants are linear functions .
The notation of M. Lame 's work on the Mathematical Theory of the Elasticity of Solid Bodies , so far as it relates to isotropic substances , is compared with that of this paper .
Reference being made to the known method of representing the elastic pressures at a given particle of a solid , in magnitude and direction , by the radii of an ellipsoid , and the positions of the surfaces to which those pressures are applied by those of the tangent planes to an ellipsoid or hyperboloid , the difference ( not generally attended to ) between the cone of tangentialpressures , and the cone of sliding , is pointed out .
This difference is important in the theory of the strength of materials .

