May 24 , 1849 .
The EARL OF ROSSE , President , in the Chair .
The following papers were read:1 .
An appendix to a paper " On the Variations of the Acidity of the Urine in the State of Health"- " On the Influence of Medicines on the Acidity of the Urine .
" Bv Henry Bence Jones , M.D. , M.A. , F.R.S. &amp;c. The variations of the acidity of the urine in the state of health having been shown in the original paper , and the effect of dilute sulphuric acid also traced ; in this appendix , the influence of caustic potash , of tartaric acid , and of tartrate of soda , on the acidity of the urine is determined .
One ounce of liquor potasse , specific gravity 1072 , was taken in distilled water , in three days .
It hindered the acidity of the urine from rising , long after digestion , to the height to which ( from comparative experiments ) it otherwise would have done ; but it , by no means , made the urine constantly alkaline ; nor did it hinder the variations produced by the state of the stomach from being very evident .
354 grains of dry and pure tartaric acid dissolved in water were taken in three days .
The conclusion from the observations is that this quantity increased the acidity of the urine , but during that time it did not render the effect of the stomach on the reaction of the urine less apparent than when no acid was taken ; and therefore , that this quantity of tartaric acid , during this time , does not produce so much effect on the reaction of the urine as the stomach does .
Tartrate of potash in large doses produces the most marked effect on the alkalescence of the urine .
120 grains of pure dry tartrate of potash dissolved in four ounces of distilled water made the urine alkaline in thirty-five minutes .
In two hours the alkalescence had disappeared , but after the next meal the effect of the tartrate of potash was again apparent .
10 drachms of tartrate of potash taken in three days produced but little , if any effect , on the acidity of the urine twenty-four hours after the last dose was taken .

