The Croonian Lecturefor 1826 .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S ' Read November 16 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 39 .
] The author states the subject of this lecture to be , " an inquiry into the mode by which the propagation of the species is carried on in the common oyster , and the large fresh-water muscle .
" After noticing the agreement of these animals , in the circumstance of their ova becoming the nuclei on which pearls are formed , he observes that they disagree in the process gone through before the young is completely formed .
The mode of propagation of the oyster he regards as more simple than that of many plants ; and the processes , as gone through in much shorter time .
In describing the mode of breeding of the oyster , the author first observes that we labour under considerable disadvantage in the inquiry in this country , from the prohibition of their sale during the spawning season ; from which , however , be was relieved by a weekly supply of oysters from a private bed .
He first describes the two ovaria , which he states to lie immediately within the membrane that lines the two shells , having the liver between them , whose structure resembles so closely that of the ovarium containing ova , as only to be distinguished by their colour and situation .
In March , the ova were large enough to be visible in the field of a microscope , and were spherical ; as they enlarge , that membrane to which they are attached becomes thickened .
In June , they have attained their full size , and are seen surrounded by a white liquor , which the author regards as impregnating fluid .
At the time of their detachment a tube is seen , not to be detected before , originating by an opening between the two ovaria .
This is the oviduct ; and the embryo , when it enters it , has already acquired a shell .
About .
the end of June , the young begin to leave the ovaria , and at the end of July none are found , either in them or in the oviduct .
The author then observes , that the oyster seems to form an exception to the general rule observed by other fish , -being out of season , and having no flavour during the time that the ovaria are full of ova .
In fact , however , the breeding season of oysters , when the ova are getting ready for impregnation , is March or April ; while in June or July they may be said to have spawned , the embryo being then received into the mouth of the oviduct .
In the fresh-water muscle the ovaria resemble , in situation and appearance , those of the oyster ; and the ovaria are the same size before impregnation , which in them also happens in the ovarium. .
They are completely formed about the 10th of August , and about the 20th are detected passing into the oviduct ; and about the 12th of September have all arrived there .
That they are previously impregnated is evident from the ovum having been formed into a vesicle , .
through which the embryo may be seen opening and shutting its shells .
The author here notices a curious plenomenon , .
many of the young being seen in this state , turning round and round as on a centre .
Mr. Bauer ascertained that this motion is produced by a. SO2 Worm , which gets into the vesicle , and performns these revolutions while feeding on the young muscle , carrying it round with it , though itself invisible .
The young remain in the oviduct , which is like a honey-comb , till they arrive at the size fitting them to provide for themselves ; and leave it in October and November ; and when ready to leave it a canal is formed , through which they pass out , -an operation facilitated by the motion of the foot of the parent , which is partly surrounded by the oviduct .

