.S76 .
] On the Variations of the Earth 's Magnetism .
231 calcareous segments ; b9 axial cord ; cc9 coeliac canal , extending to near the extremity of the pinnule ; ov , ovary filling the dilatation of the genital canal , and developed from the peduncle p given off from the genital rachis of the arm ; stc , subtentacular canal ; tc , true tentacular canal , with its orifices , o o , leading to the tentacidar apparatus .
10 .
Vertical Section of a very young Pentacrinoid , showing a portion of the Alimentary canal al , hanging freely in the large perivisceral space pv , and the formation of the ring-canal rc from which the tentacles proceed , by the marking-off of the portion of the space included in the fold of the oral disk or , by transverse threads of connective tissue .
At an is seen the csecal termination of the intestine , not yet bending upwards to protrude as a vent .
Sg .
11 .
Vertical Section of a somewhat more advanced Pentacrinoid , in which the development of the Arms has not yet commenced , showing the enlargement of the Alimentary canal al divided transversely at aV , and the relative diminution of the perivisceral space ; the crinoidal axis of the stem cr is seen to be prolonged upwards at ax , through the central space left within the intestinal coil , and to pass obliquely along the oesophageal portion ces of the canal towards the oral ring-canal , rc .
g. 12 .
Vertical Section of a Pentacrinoid in which the Arms and Dorsal Cirrhi have appeared :\#151 ; the alimentary canal , of which ces is the oesophageal portion , and int the intestinal portion , now fills the perivisceral cavity more completely ; and a membranous fold mf shows itself , which divides that cavity into a dorsal and a ventral portion .
From the former proceeds the coeliac canal cc ; from the latter the subtentacular canal stc ; while the true tentacular canal tc proceeds from the oral ring-canal , which is still not blocked up by the csecal tubuli and connective tissue that subsequently occupy it .
January 2 1876 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for \gt ; hem .
S The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Variations o 1 the Daily Mean Horizontal Force of the Earth 's Magnetism produced by the Sun 's Rotation and the Moon 's Synodical and Tropical Revolutions .
" By J , A. Broun , F.R.S. Received December 15 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The variations of daily mean horizontal force in the years 1844 and 1845 showed several well-marked oscillations , having periods of from 20 to 30 days , and amplitudes , in some cases , of more than one thousandth of the whole magnetic force .
These oscillations were first attributed to lunar action ; afterwards they were found more probably due to the sun 's rotation on his axis .
The disappearance of these oscillations in 232 Results of Monthly Observations of [ Jan. 27 the middle of well-marked series , their different amplitudes and periods , could not be explained except by the supposition that the solar action was not continuous , but only by fits periodic .
The author was induced to believe lately that these differences in the oscillations were due to conjoint actions of the sun and moon ; he accordingly deduced the mean variations corresponding to three periods of 26 , 29*5 , and 27*3 days , the times of rotation of the sun derived from the magnetic observations , and of the moon 's synodical and tropical revolutions respectively .
He finds that the combinations of these three series of variations represent with considerable accuracy all the variations of the daily mean horizontal force of the earth 's magnetism during each year ; so that the sun 's rotation and the different positions of the moon relatively to the sun and the plane of the equator ( or of the ecliptic ) are found to produce all the differences in the amplitude and time , as well as the apparent disappearance of the oscillation .
Cases of considerable and sudden diminution of the earth 's magnetic fdrce which happened in the years 1844 and 1845 are next examined ; and it is shown that these changes occur at intervals of 26 days , or multiples of 26 days ; in one instance there are five successive recurrences at the exact interval of 26 days .
As this period is that of the sun 's rotation relatively to the earth , it appears to follow that the earth has some action on the sun , or ( more probably ) on some ray-like emanation from the sun , which causes these changes in the earth 's magnetism .
It is found also that these sudden variations occur more frequently when the moon is at a considerable distance from the equator and the ecliptic ; it would thus appear that our satellite has also an action on the cause of the great terrestrial magnetic disturbances .
II .
" Results of the Monthly Observations of Magnetic Dip , Horizontal Force , and Declination made at the Kew Observatory from April 1869 to March 1875 inclusive .
" By the Kew Committee .
Received November 25 , 1875 .
This paper , containing the result of six years ' magnetic observations at the Kew Observatory , follows as the third of a series of publications , the first of which was a communication to the Royal Society by General Sir E. Sabine , published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1863 , page 273 , which consisted of a discussion of certain selected magnetic disturbances , a general discussion of declinational changes as recorded by the magnetographs , and a discussion of the absolute determination of Dip and Horizontal Force at the Observatory , for the six years April 1857 to March 1863 inclusive .
\gt ; The second publication appeared in 1870 as a paper in the ' Proceed ' !

