VI .
An Account of BOOK S. I. Horti Indici Malabarici .
Pars Septima , Octava , &amp; Nona ; with some Remarks upon them .
THE Six first Tomes being abbreviated in the Philosoph. Transact. N. 145 , and N. 198 .
This proceeds with the 7th , 8th and 9th , the fruitful Product of that great Maecenas of the Botanick , and other Natural Studies , the Noble Heer Van Rheed , whose vast Designs being not confined to Asia alone , have already surveyed and described the most luxuriant part of Africa , which he intends to publish ( after the finishing of these his Oriental Discoveries ) with the same Fidelity , Exactness and Magnificence that we see in the admirable Work before us .
The 7th Part treats of Scandent and Bacciferous Shurbs , the greatest part whereof were never taken notice of by any Writer , or else but very imperfectly touched upon : As the Natsjatam or Battavalli , which is the Cocculus Indicus of our Shops , used in Ointments or Pastes for the intoxicating of Fish , and driving away Lice and Vermin .
It is semper-virent , and grows in sandy places up and down the Kingdom of Malabar , and other Eastern Countries : The Leaves are thick set , of the shape of a Heart , and of a bitter taste .
The Flowers come out in Clusters , are monopetalose , with five Laciniae or Incisures , all reflected , like those of the Nightshade , sending forth an Odour like that of Eldar .
To these succeed the Fruit , resembling Grapes , only it is monococ ; first green , then white , afterwards red , and lastly ( when ripe ) black .
The Indians beat the whole Plant up with Ginger , spread it upon Flanel , and so take off their Corns , and soften their Feet ; sometimes they use only the Fumigation of the Root burnt with Bufalo 's Excrements and the Bambou Reed .
After the History of the Coculus Indicus , the Publisher gives us 4 sorts of Caniram , all akin to the Nux Vomica of our Shops , of which more in the next .
Schembra-valli , and Vallia-Pira Pitica seem to be two wild Vines , climbing up the Trees in thick Woods ; they ( as also many other Plants in the hot Climates ) are never divested of Leaves and Fruit , ( of which there will be both green and ripe at the same time ) always flowring and bearing through the whole year under a kind Sun , whose Influence is not so bountiful to the European Regions .
Malago-Codi is our round , black and white Pepper , which are the same , only the latter is decorticated .
Cattu-Tirpali is the long Pepper of the Indians , which they chew with Calx and the Nut Taufel , ( the Fruit of a Palm named Arequa ) colouring their Spittle with a red Tincture .
These three Species of Pepper , with two more of the same Family , are all fully described , and exactly figured in this 7th Tome .
Cari villandi , a sort of Sarsaparilla , for which it is used by the Natives of Malabar ; it is not unlike the American Smilax , called Jupecanga by Margrave and Piso , and Macapatli by Hernandez and Recchus , who make 4 Species of Sarsa , all bacciferous .
Mendoni , or the Lilium Superbum Zeylanicum , one of the choicest Ornaments of the English and Dutch Gardens , growing up to a very high stature .
The Gentiles ascribe strange Virtues to the Root in Sympathy , Incantations , and other Magic Operations .
The Fruit ( or rather Excrescence ) sticking to the Root , stops and curbs the proud Flesh of Ulcers , and is successfully given in difficult Births .
To these we might add many other rare Plants contained in this 7th part : As 4 sorts of Indian Ivy , not unlike our Trifoliate and Quinquefoliate Creepers : Several Exotic Night-shades , one resembling our Dulcamara ; great variety of Battata 's , or Ricophora 's , very near akin to our Potatoes , being also of general use in the Kitchens of India .
A curious sort of Cuscuta or Dodder , running up and choaking the Boughs of Trees .
A beautiful Scandent Reed like the Rotang , with many others .
Horti Malabarici .
Pars Octava .
THE 8th Tome describes and figures 51 herbaceous and arborescent Plants , the greatest part of them pomiferous or leguminose .
The first 23 Species may be all referred to the Pumpions , the Coloquintida 's , the Cucumbers , the Balsom Apples , the Passion Flowers or Maracocks , of all which there are great Varieties in both the Indies .
Modira.caniram , Tab. 24 .
page .
47 .
contains in its Fruit the round flat Stone or Seed , commonly called in our Shops the Nux Vomica : The Wood of this Tree is said to be the True Lignum Colubrinum , akin to the Caniram of the First Tome of this Work , Fig. 37 .
page .
67 , 68 .
which is the Famous Antidote or Specific against the Bitings of that Indian Serpent , called by the Portugueses .
gueses Cobra Copello , whose flat Head is marked with the Figure of a pair of Spectacles .
This Viper or Serpent I have seen in Mr. Charlton 's excellent Museum .
The Juice of the Leaves ( though poisonous ) applied externally , drives away the Gout called Valvida by the Indians of Malabar .
Breynius in his Second Prodromus makes the Caniram , and Modita-Caniram to be Tree Night-shades , Solanum arboreum Indicum maximum foliis Oenopliae sive Nepecae , &amp;c. page .
92 , 93 .
But whether the Nux Vomica is properly the seed of a Solanum , I leave to the more nice Botanists to determine .
Amongst the Leguminose Plants of this 8th Part , the Perim-kaku-valli is remarkable , which bears a prodigious large Lobe , containing 30 great flat Beans , out of each whereof they make entire Purses and Snuff-boxes : These Seeds are called by some Cor Sancti Thomae , and by others Fabae purgatrices .
They are so common and plentiful in the Islands and Continent of India , that whole Ships may be loaded with them .
Nai-Coranna is the Phaseolus Surattentis Siliqua hirsut a pungente , or our Couage , whose blistering or pricking is soon cured by the Herb called Thumba .
The Pod and Seed of this Kidney-bean are esteemed high provocatives to Venery , ( perhaps by the same reason that Cantharides are ) and a successful Medicine in Dropsies .
There is another Species of this pungent Couage in Malabar called Kaku-valli , akin to , if not the same with the Macouna of Brasil , described by Margrave and Piso .
Schanga-Cuspi is the Flos Clitorius of Breynius , the Juice is Vomitive , and the root Purgative .
Konni a sort of Abrus or Liquorice , whose Bean is commended in the Haemorrhoids .
Ana-Mullu , called by the Portugueses Hasticanto and Fabas Turquesca , remarkable for its many Galls or Excrescencies full of Insects , as also for its strong sharp Prickles , with which the Indians bore their Ears for the hanging of their various Pendents of Gold and Precious Stones .
Paeru and Katu Paeru , called by the Chineses Lak Goetum , two most delicious Phaseoli , or Kidney-beans , cultivated by the Orientals with extreme diligence as the best sort of nourishment .
Penarvalli , resembling the Ahovai of Thevet in its Fruit , hanging down like Bandoleers , hence called Fruita Bandoliera by the Portugueses .
This Plant is used as a powerful Antispasmodick by the Indians .
The rest of the Herbs in this 8th Tome may be referred to the Halicacabum , Aristolochia Clematitis , and the Phaseolus , of the last of which there are many Species in this Volume .
Horti Malabarici .
Pars Nona .
THE 9th Part gives us the full History of 87 Plants with their lively Icons .
The first 17 are all Apocynum 's , some creeping , others scandent , and some arborescent , resembling Neriums or Oleanders ; of these there is a wonderful Variety in Malabar , differing in their Lanigerous or Cotton-like Seed Vessels ; their milky Juyces are generally corrosive and poisonous .
The Todda vaddi of our Author , Tab. 19 .
is the Herba Viva of Acosta , which grows in many Provinces of Persia ; it is esteemed as a great Traumatick and Lithonthriptick .
Coletta-Veetla , called by Dr. Herman Eryngium Zeylanicum febrifugum , floribus luteis .
The Indians chew the Leaves instead of Betel with the Faufel or Arequa , and give the Juice in the Apthae or Thrush .
There are also in this 9th Volume several sorts of Trifoliate and Sinapistrums , many papilionaceous and winged Plants referable to the Ferrum Equinum , num , Astragalus , Onobrychis , to the AEschynomene 's , Herba Casta , Mimosa 's , to the Sensitive and Humble Plants , to the Genistella Tinctoria .
Of the Crotalaria ( called so from the rattling of the Seed , which the little Indians play with ) there are 5 or 6 different kinds .
The rest are akin to the Euphrasia , Pulmonaria , Verbascum , Persicaria , Digitalis , Hedera terrestris , Lysimachia .
Of the Sesamum we have two distinct Species in this part , as also of the Teucrium , &amp;c. with accurate Descriptions , Figures and Uses ; for all which the Work it self may be consulted .
II .
A Collection of Curious Travels and Voyages , in Two Tomes .
The first containing Dr. Leonhart Rauwolff 's Itinerary into the Eastern Countries , &amp;c. The Second taking in many parts of Greece , Asia Minor , Egypt , Arabia , &amp;c. from the Observations of Monsieur Belon , Mr. Vernon , Dr. Spoon , Dr. Smith , Dr. Huntingdon , Mr. Greaves , and others .
To which are added Three Catalogues of Plants growing in the Levant .
By John Ray , S. R. S. THIS Work contains the Observations of so many curious and learned Travellers , that it may justly be esteemed the most Judicious and Choicest Collection that ever was yet published of the Levant , and some other adjacent Countries .
The first Itinerary is that of Dr. Leonard Rauwolff who under the Protection and Encouragement of the House of Austria , travelled into many of the Eastern Parts of the World , where he made it his principal business to visit all the Shops , Ware-houses , Exchanges , Gardens , Woods , &amp;c. in order to learn their Drugs , Merchandises , Arts , Sciences , Trades , and the Products of Nature , most of which he brought home with him .
The late Isaac Vossius kept 4 large Volumes of Rauwolff 's Collections , as one of the rarest Cimelium 's in all his Library .
These are now preserved with great Care at Leyden , and shown to Strangers amongst the many Curiosities of that flourishing University .
Rauwolff begins his Voyage at Auspurg , from whence he travelled to Marseilles , and there embarked for Tripoli , touching in his Passage upon many Islands of the Mediterranean Sea , as Scicily , Malta , Candy , and Cyprus .
He describes with great exactness the City of Tripoli , with its Fruitful Neighbourhood and Trade ; he is very particular in his Account of the stately Bagnio 's , of the Caravanzeries , the Batzars , the Fundiques , and indeed of all their public and private Buildings : He tells us the ways how the Turks prepare their Rusma , their Soap and Pot-ashes , and afterwards enumerates the Trees , Shrubs and Herbs growing in the adjacent Country : He doth not omit the common Observations of other Travellers relating to Offices , Employments , Manners , Customs , Habits , Religions , Diet , &amp;c. From Tripoli he proceeds to Aleppo , the greatest Emporium of all the East , laying down very minutely the Rout he took .
I need only take notice here , that the Author shows the same Exactness and Diligence in describing Aleppo as he did before in Tripoli ; but the Traffic here being much more considerable , he therefore is the more industrious about the Drugs and Merchandise .
From Aleppo he travels to Bir , and so down the Euphrates to old Babylon , describing in this Passage the City of Racka , Deer , and Ana , with many Observations upon the Arabians , and upon several places of Chaldaea , especially the Ruins of Old Babylon : He afterwards gives a full Description of Bagdet .
His Return from Bagdet is through Assyria , the Consines of Persia , and the Province of the Curters , to the River Tigris , and to Mosell , the old Nineve ; then he continues his Journey through Mesopotamia by the way of Zibin and Orpha to Bir , and so to Aleppo , and Tripoli again .
Here he gives us a most accurate Account of Mount Libanus , which he surveyed with that diligence , as never any Traveller did before him .
From Tripoli he goes to Joppa , and so to Jerusalem , ~ the greatest part of Palaestine , and describing all the Holy Places , with the several Sects of Christians inhabiting there ; he never omits the Plants he observed growing up and down .
Afterwards he embarks at Tripoly for Venice , and so from thence he returns into Germany , loaded with the Spoils of the East .
The Second Tome of these Collections contain great Variety : As First , Several of Monsieur Belon 's Itineraries and Voyages , to Candy , Mount Athos , from thence thro ' Macedonia to the Silver and Gold Mines , and so thro ' Thrace to Constantinople , and from thence into AEgypt .
This curious French-man was sent with Petrus Gyllius to Travel , and write the History of Quadrupeds , Birds , Fishes , Insects , Plants and Fossils , at the Expense and under the Patronage of that great Restorer of Learning , Francis the First , of immortal Memory .
Secondly , Mr. Vernon 's Travels thro ' part of Istria , Dalmatia , Peloponnesus , Attica , and Asia Minor .
This worthy Gentleman always carried along with him several useful Mathematical Instruments , and was exact in his Latitudes : Great things might have been expected from him , if he had not been unfortunately killed in Persia .
Thirdly , The Plants observed by Sir George Wheeler in Greece .
Fourthly , Several Miscellaneous Observations made by Dr. Smith during his Travels in the Turkish Empire .
Fifthly , Mr. Greaves his Accounts of the Latitude of Constantinople , and of the Egyptian Pyramids .
This Learned~ Mathematician seems very exact in his Calculations and Measures , being furnished in his Travels with all things necessary for Observation .
Sixthly , The Egyptian Observations of Prosper Alpinus , who resided and practised Physic several Years at Grand Caire , and afterwards for ~ great Merit was appointed Botanick Professor at Padua , by the particular Order of the Commonwealth of Venice .
To these we find added in this Second Tome some curious Remarks of Dr. Huntingdon ; as also several ~ries and Voyages into many parts of Arabia , as to Mecha and Medina , to Moha , Aden , Zenan , Doffar , &amp;c. and also into AEthiopia or Habessinia , with the several ways of getting into that Kingdom , extracted from Authentic Instructions .
Amongst these are inserted some Observations upon the Red Sea , for all which the Book it self may be consulted , as containing many things not commonly known , and therefore the more to be valued .
At the end are inserted three Catalogues of such Trees , Shrubs and Herbs , as have been observed to grow wild in Greece , Syria , AEgypt , Candy , &amp;c. The Names given by Rauwolff , Bellonius , Honorio Belli , &amp;c. being either Arabian ones from Avicen , Serapio , Mesua and Rhazas ; or Greek from Theophrastus and Dioscorides ; or else Barbarous from the present Inhabitants : It was thought therefore convenient to add the new Names of late Writers , which do much illustrate the whole .
For this Addition of Catalogues the Public is wholly obliged to the Pains and Skill of Mr. Ray .

