414 Lord Rayleigh. .
On the Dark Plane [ Dec. 21 , Postscript.\#151 ; Received December 15 , 1882 .
I have Captain Abney 's permission to add the following letter this day received from him .
" A careful examination of your series of \#171 ; un-photographs , taken with absorbing media , convinces me that your claim to having secured photographs of the corona with an uneclipsed sun , is fully established .
A comparison of your photographs with those obtained during the eclipse which took place in May last , shows not only that the general features are the same , but also that details , such as rifts and streamers , have the same position and form .
If in your case the coronal appearances be due to instrumental causes , I take it that the eclipse photographs are equally untrustworthy , and that my lens and your reflector have the same optical defects , t think that evidence by means of photography of the existence of a \#166 ; corona at all is as clearly shown in the one case as in the other."\#151 ; .
Dec. 15 , 1882 .
] IV .
" On the Dark Plane which is formed over a Heated Wire in Dusty Air .
" By Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. , Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Received December 8 , 1882 .
In the course of his examination of atmospheric dust as rendered \#166 ; evident by a convergent beam from the electric arc , Professor Tyndall noticed the formation of streams of dust-free air rising from the summits of moderately heated solid bodies.* " To study this effect a platinum wire was stretched across the beam , the two ends of the wire being connected with the two poles of a galvanic battery .
To regulate the strength of the current a rheostat was placed in the ^circuit .
Beginning with a feeble current , the temperature of the wire was gradually augmented ; but before it reached the heat of ignition , a flat stream of air rose from it , which , when looked at edgeways , -appeared darker and sharper than one of the blackest lines of Fraunhofer in the solar spectrum .
Right and left of this dark vertical band the floating matter rose upwards , bounding definitely the non-luminous stream of air .
" ... .
" When the wire is white hot , it sends up a band of intense dark-mess .
This , I say , is due to the destruction of the floating matter .
But \#166 ; even when its temperature does not exceed that of boiling water , the wire produces a dark ascending current .
This , I say , is due to the -distribution of the floating matter .
Imagine the wire clasped by the mote-filled air .
My idea is that it heats the air and lightens it , without * \#171 ; Proc. Eoy .
Inst. , " vol. 6 , p. 3 , 1870 .
1882 .
] which is formed over a Heated Wire in Dusty Air .
415 in the same degree lightening the floating matter The tendency , therefore , is to start a current of clean air through the mote-filled air .
Figure the motion of the air all round the wire .
Looking at its transverse section , we should see the air at the bottom of the wire bending found it right and left in two branch currents , ascending its sides , and turning to fill the partial vacuum created above the wire .
Now as .each new supply of air , filled with its motes comes in^contact with the hot wire , the clean air , as just stated , is first started through the inert motes .
They are dragged after it , but there is a fringe of cleansed air in advance of the motes .
The two purified fringes of t e two branch currents unite above the wire , and , keeping t e mo es a once belonged to them right and left , they form by then- mon the dark band observed in the experiment .
This process is incessant .
Always the moment the mote-filled air touches the wire , the distribution is effected , a permanent dark band being thus produced .
Oould the air and the particles under the wire pass through its mass , we should have a vertical current of particles , but no dark band .
or here , though the motes would be left behind at starting , they would hotly follow the ascending current , and thus abolish the darkness .
Professor Frankland* on the other hand , considers that what is proved by the above described observations is that " a very large proportion of the suspended particles in the London atmosphere consists of water and other volatile liquid or solid matter .
" Last summer ( 1881 ) I repeated and extended Tyndall s beautiful experiment , not feeling satisfied with the explanation of the dark plane ffiven by the discoverer .
Too much stress , it appeared to me is placed upon the relative lightening of the air by heat .
The original density ' is probably not more than about two Par^ ^at o t e Par 10 es\gt ; an it is difficult to see how a slight further lightening could produce so much effect .
In other respects , too , the explanation was not clear to me .
At the same time I was not prepared to accept Professor I Frankland 's view that the foreign matter is volatilised .
The atmosphere of smoke was confined within a box ( of about the size of a cigar-box ) , three of the vertical sides of which were composed of plates of glass .
A beam of sunlight reflected into the : darkened room from a heliostat was rendered convergent by a large lens I of somewhat long focus , and made to pass in its concentrated condition : through the box .
The third glass side allowed the observer to see what was going on inside .
It could be removed when desired so as .
to facilitate the introduction of smoke .
The advantages of the box [ .
are twofold .
With its aid much thicker smoke may be used than " would , be convenient in an open room , and it is more easy o avoi draughts which interfere greatly with the regularity of the phenomena to be observed .
Smouldering brown paper was generally used to # u Pj\#187 ; q0p Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 25 , p. 542 .
416 Lord Rayleigh .
O Dark Plane [ T)ec .
21 produce the smoke , but other substances , such as sulphur and phosphorus , have been tried .
The experiment was not commenced until the smoke was completely formed , and had come , nearly to rest .
In some respects the most striking results were obtained from a copper blade , about j-inch broad , formed by hammering flat one end of a stout copper rod .
The plane of the blade was horizontal , and its length was in the line of sight .
The unhammered end of the rod projected from the box , and could be warmed with a spirit-lamp .
The dark plane was well developed .
At a moderate distance above the blade it is narrow , sometimes so narrow as almost to render necessary a magnifying glass ; but below , where it attaches itself to the blade , it widens out to the full width , as shown in the figure .
Whether the heated body be a thin blade or a cylindrical rod , the fluid passes round the obstacle according to the electrical law of flow , the streamlines in the rear of the obstacle being of the same form as in front of it .
This peculiarity of behaviour is due to the origin of the motion being at the obstacle itself , especially at its hinder surface .
If a stream be formed by other means , and impinge upon the same obstacle without a difference of temperature , the motion is of a different character altogether , and eddies are formed in the shadow .
The difference of temperature necessary to initiate these motions with this dark plane accompaniment is insignificant .
On July 20 , .
1881 , a glass rod , about j-inch in diameter , was employed .
It was heated in a spirit-lamp , and then inserted in the smoke-box .
The dark plane gradually became thinner as the rod cooled , but could be 1 olio wed with a magnifier for a long time .
While it was still quite distinct the experiment was stopped , atid on opening the box the glass rod was found to be scarcely warmer than the fingers .
It was almost ' impossible to believe that the smoky matter had been evaporated .
In order to test the matter more closely , smoke was slowly forced through a glass tube heated near the end pretty strongly by a spirit-lamp , and then allowed to emerge into the concentrated sunshine .
No distinct attenuation of the smoke could be detected even under this treatment .
It is not necessary to dwell further upon these considerations , as the question may be regarded as settled by a decisive experiment tried a few days later .
The glass rod before used was cooled in a mixture of salt and ice , and after wiping was placed in the box .
In a short time 1882.1 which is formed over a Seated Wire in Dusty Air .
417 _ dar]c plane , extending downwards from the rod , clearly developed itself and persisted for a long while .
This resnlt not merely shows that the dark plane is not due to evaporation , but also excludes any explanation depending upon an augmentation in the difference of densities of fluid and foreign matter .
The experiment was varied by using a U -tube , through which eooled water could be made to flow .
When the water was not very cold , the appearances were much the same as with the solid rod ; but when , by means of salt and ice , the tube was cooled still further , a curious complication presented itself .
Along the borders of the dark plane the smoke appeared considerably brighter than elsewhere .
Sometimes when the flow was not very regular it looked at first as if the dark plane had been replaced by a bright one , but on closer examination the dark plane could be detected inside .
There seems no doubt but that the effect is caused by condensation of moisture upon the smoke , due to the chilling which the damp air undergoes in passing close to the cold obstacle .
Where the fog forms more light is scattered , hence the increased brightness .
That the fog should not form within the smoke-free plane itself is what we might expect from the interesting observations of Aitken .
With respect to the cause of the formation of the dark plane , the most natural view would seem to be that the relatively dense particles are thrown outwards by centrifugal force as the mixture flows in curved lines round the obstacle .
Even when the fluid is at rest , a gradual subsidence must take place under the action of gravity ; but this effect could at first only manifest itself at the top where the upper boundary of the gas prevents the entrance of more dust from above .
It is known that air in a closed space will gradually free itself from dust , but the observation of a thin dust-free stratum at the top of the vessel is difficult .
If we conceive a vessel full of dusty air to be set into rapid rotation , the dust might be expected to pass outwards iu all directions from the axis , along which a dust-free line would form itself .
I have tried this experiment , but looking along the axis through the glass top of the vessel I could see no sign of a dark line , so long as the rotation was uniform .
When , however , the vessel was stopped , a column of comparatively smoke-free air developed itself along the axis .
This I attributed to the formation of an inward flow along the top of the vessel , combined with a down ward flow along the axis after the manner described and explained by Professor James Thomson , so that the purified air had been in intimate proximity with the solid cover .
It would almost seem as if this kind of contact was sufficient to purify the air without the aid o\#163 ; centrifugal force .
The experiments made hitherto in order to elucidate this question have given no decisive result .
If the thin convex blade already Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ Dee .
21 spoken of be held in the smoke-box in a vertical instead of in , * horizontal plane , the lines of motion are much less curved , and we might expect to eliminate the influence of centrifugal force .
I have not succeeded in this way in getting rid of the dark plane ; but since under the magnifier the curvature of the motion was still quite apparent , no absolute conclusion can be drawn .
Y. " On the Origin of the Hydrocarbon Flame Spectrum .
" By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received December 14 , 1882 .
In previous communications* to the Society we have described the spectra of what we believe to be three compound substances , viz. , cyanogen , magnesium-hydrogen , and water .
In these investigations our chief aim has been to ascertain facts , and to avoid as far as possible adopting any special theory regarding the genesis of the spectra in question .
Thus , in speaking of the magnesium-hydrogen spectrum , which consists of three sets of flu tings closely resembling in character the flame spectrum of hydrocarbons , we remark:\#151 ; " We have been careful to ascribe this line and its attendant series to a mixture of magnesium and hydrogen rather than to a chemical compound , because this expresses the facts , and we have not yet obtained any independent evidence of the existence of any chemical compound of those elements .
" In dealing with the cyanogen spectrum , we sometimes refer to it as the " nitro-carbon spectrum , " in order to convey that " we are dealing with a spectrum invariably associated with the presence of nitrogen and carbon , in such conditions that chemical union takes place .
" Finally , in summing up our observations on the spectrum of water , we remark:\#151 ; " In writing of this and other spectra which we have traced to be due to compounds , we abstain from speculating upon the particular molecular condition or stage of combination or decomposition which may give rise to such spectra .
" The difficulties we have met with in endeavouring exhaustively to clear up many apparently simple spectroscopic problems , on a basis of fact as opposed to theory , is further illustrated in the concluding remarks of our paper entitled " Investigations on the Spectrum of * " On the Spectra of the Compounds of Carbon with Hydrogen and Nitrogen .
I and II .
\#171 ; Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , pp. 152 , 494 .
" On the Spectrum of Carbon , " ib. , yol .
33 , p. 403 .
" General Observations on the Spectrum of Carbon and its Compounds , " ib. , vol. 34 , p. 123 .
" On the Spectrum of Water , " vol. 30 , p. 580 , and vol. 33 , p. 274 .
" Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium , " ib. , vol. 32 , p. 189 .

