238 ZOOLOGY OF KERGUELEN ISLAND .
Diptera.\#151 ; ByH .
( Plate XIV .
) On comparing the Kerguelen Island Diptera with their nearest foreign allies , some are found to have retained the habits of the families to which they belong , and not to have departed in any way from their normal condition .
These are they which frequent the denser portions of the herbage , and are efficiently sheltered by it even when the weather is at its worst , e. , the and the A larger number , also remaining true to the habits of their kindred , are less protected from the cold than the forms before mentioned , being denizens of rocks and crevices ; these have small rudimentary wings ( one is apterous ) and a fair amount of hair and bristles ( the apterous species being the worst off in these respects ) .
Another is likewise constant to the habits of its nearest relations ; and in consequence it is more exposed to the rigours and vicissitudes of the climate than any of the other species , frequenting as it does the leaves of the Kerguelen Island cabbage ( Bringlea ) ; it is almost apterous , and its hair and bristles are of the most rudimentary description .
The Diptera of the Falkland Islands have their wings fully developed .
Musclile .
S Calyptera .
Anthomyin^ : .
Homalomyia , Bouche .
Homalomyia canicularis , Linne .
Musca canicularis , Lin .
F. S. 1761 , No. 1841 .
Somalomgia canicularis , Schiner , F. Aust .
Dipped .
1862 , i. 654 , \amp ; c. Hab .
and Dist.\#151 ; In the house at Observatory Bay ; introduced .
This species is attendant upon man in almost every part of the world .
SS Acalyptera .
Micropezin^e , Verral .
Calycopteryx , Eaton , 1875 .
Frons broad , slightly concave , produced at the base of the antennae more than the width of the eye ; bristles short , only two near the eye margin ( as in Calobata ) , rather distant and outwardly ascending , two others near the hinder angle of the eye , of which the inner is the largest and ascends inwards , while the outer is very short and ascends outwards , also with a very short one on each side of the middle of the occipital margin projecting backwards , and with one prorect decumbent on DIPTERA.\#151 ; G. H. VERRALL .
each side of the foremost ocellus .
Antennae with short minute hair , which along the back and apex of the second joint is sparsely intermixed with some coarser and more rigid ; third joint scarcely longer than the second , its outer side subcircular , its inner side somewhat reniform , deeply umbilicate at the insertion of the funiculus , the arista glabrous , arising just beyond the summit of the dorsal half of the third joint ( viewing the joint as a circle , it would be just within the second superior quadrant ) , and so distant from the base ; in the dried insect the third joint through shrinking becomes slightly transverse , and the arista seems nearer to the tip ; the basal joints of the arista are distinct but short .
Proboscis stout ; palpi subcylin-drical , mandibles lanceolate , of moderate size .
Thorax completely concrete with the scutellum ; the transverse suture broad and ill-defined ; disc minutely scabrous , with three short bristles transversely disposed on each side behind , apparently representing the long bristles that usually precede the scutellum , and with a solitary very short bristle on each side , a little in advance of the wings .
Wings represented by a minute vesicle adnate to a smaller tubercle ( tegula ?
) ; halteres extremely small , clavate .
Legs without long bristles of any kind or spurs , excepting 3 or 4 at the apices of the coxae , clothed with short dense appressed hairs , which become rather longer and somewhat spreading at the tips of the femora and tibiae ; hind tarsi long and slender , with the basal joint as long as the next three .
Abdomen sessile , 6-jointed , exclusive of the genital segments ; ovipositor considerably extended , jointed ; penis when not in use folded down upon the underside of the genital segment between the rather small lateral appendices , the same segment likewise doubled forwards to fit into an excavated protuberance at the ventral apex of the antepenultimate segment .
The larvae feed on decaying vegetable matter .
In the structure of the antennae , the form of the frons , the sparsity and relative positions of the bristles of the same , the round bare eyes , the absence of vibrissae , the condition of the proboscis and the palpi , the great length of the legs and the absence of the preapical spine of the posterior tibia , the length and slimness of the fusiform abdomen , and in the construction of the genital apparatus , the affinity between Calycopteryx and Micropeza is clearly displayed .
Calycopteryx moseleyi .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 1 ct-e .
) Eaton , Ent .
Mo. Mag. 1875 , xii .
59 .
See also Thomson , Good Words , 1874 , Nov. , p. 750 ; Eaton , Proc. Hoy .
Soc. 1875 , xxiii .
354 ; Moseley , Journ. Lin .
Soc. Botany , 1876 , xv .
54 ; Kidder , Bulletin LT .
S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
, 51 and 52 .
Imago .
Atro-corvinus , clothed with a dense appressed very minute sub-oliva-ceous pubescence ; the dorsum , notum , and frons with very minute scattered setulae , which are very limited in number on the frons , but numerous on the other parts , causing them to appear microscopically scabrous .
Erons , oral parts , and the adjacent portion of the orbits of the eyes , coxae , and venter luteous or orange yellow .
wings and halteres testaceous ; tarsi somewhat jecinoreus with stiff and moderate spreading testaceous hairs , anterior tibiae with short testaceous hairs on their posterior surface .
The ovipositor becomes flattened in drying ; the lateral appendices are rounded and small ; the penis for some distance is tubular and then suddenly expands into an open cup-like termination , whose edges are deeply , widely , and unevenly sinuated .
Long. corp .
c ?
8-9 , ?
8-10 *5 mm. Hab.\#151 ; Kerguelen Island , and ( according to Mr. Moseley ) Heard Island .
The imago is very plentiful creeping over the leaves of Pringle a ; and its maggots abound in the decaying leaves accumulated at the base of the stem of the same plant .
When these flies are alarmed they fold up their legs and drop down into the axils of the leaves , remaining motionless for some time before they again timidly unbend their legs and struggle to stand upon their feet .
In snowy weather they appear to leave the head of the cabbage and retire to the rubbish on the ground round the base of the stem .
Mr. Moseley 's statement that the insect deposits its eggs in the fluid which is caught at the bases of the leaves does not correspond with Mr. Eaton 's observations .
Hr .
Kidder mentioning " small scale-like bodies which Mr. Eaton supposed to " represent the balancers ( ' halteribus brevibus et parvis ' ) " in this insect , adds " Baron Osten Sacken , however , finds that these scales are really representatives \lt ; c of the wings .
" Mr. Eaton suspects that the Baron failed to distinguish the halteres .
Judging from the context , it is probable that the specimens examined by him were in fluid ; and if this were the case , his oversight may be easily accounted for .
Yet even in fluid they can be demonstrated without difficulty if the light be judiciously manipulated : in dried or living examples they are , however , seen to the best advantage .
The question raised by Mr. Moseley as to whether flowers are frequented by Calycopteryx in sunshiny weather , may be answered in the negative .
Mr. Eaton visited the plants at various times and at various hours of the day and night with a view to ascertain whether insects visited the inflorescence .
He occasionally found C. moseleyi on the lower bracts of the spike , but the flowers appeared to be quite unattractive to the flies as well as to all other insects .
Sir J. Hooker had invited his attention to the subject of insects visiting the flowers of plants indigenous to the island , irrespective of entomological considerations .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 1 .
) Calycopteryx moseleyi ( from side ) ; a \amp ; a1 , antennae , from within and from without ; b , proboscis ; x , mandible ; c , thorax and 1st segment of the abdomen , from above ; d , wing and halter ; e , appendices S. DIPTERA.\#151 ; a. H. YERRALL . ?
Amalopteryx , Eaton , 1875 .
Head transverse , subquadrate , frons inclined , rather tumescent about the ocelli , bristles long , 2 ascending separately near the inner orbit , 2 suberect slightly divergent near the posterior orbit , and 2 prorect ascending and divergent by the foremost ocellus ; epistoma very steep , below very prominent , widely convex and strongly bristled , above keeled in the middle with a concavity on each side ; genae large , bristled below ; back of the head wide , descending below the eyes ; antennae short , second joint with spinulose bristles towards the apex ; third joint circular compressed ; arista very shortly pubescent ; proboscis stout , the second joint of the stipes somewhat callous and pubescent beneath ; palpi very short , subcylindrical ; lamellae deficient altogether .
Thorax convex , well bristled ; scutellum semielliptical , the four bristles long ; wings almost as long as the abdomen , linear , with five simple longitudinal nervures , the subcosta becomes confluent with the costa at the transverse fold , the radial and cubital are united to the discoidal near its base , the radial also joins the costa just before the apex of the wing , the cubital joins the apical margin immediately behind the apex and is thickened towards its termination , the discoidal is confluent with the margin near the middle and thickens it near their junction , it is united to the apex of the thickened anal vein by the second transverse vein ; halteres of moderate size , not very long , clavate ; legs of moderate length , strong , without spines , the posterior femur somewhat thickened .
Abdomen 5-jointed , ovate oblong ; the apex in $ slightly obtuse , genitalia concealed , in ?
produced into a short stout tooth-like ovipositor directed downwards and forwards .
This genus resembles Eecamede in the depth of the back of the head , its round naked eyes , the carination of the upper part of the epistoma , the five-jointed abdomen , and the spinose bristles of the second joint of the antenna .
Amalopteryx maritima .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 2 .
) Eaton , Ent .
Mo. Mag. 1875 , xii .
58 .
See also Thomson , Good Words , 1874 ( Nov. ) , p. 750 ; Eaton , Proc. Hoy .
Soc. 1875 , xxiii .
355 ; Kidder , Bulletin U. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , 52 .
Euligineous , with legs and setae deep black ; body completely invested with an extremely minute very closely appressed fuligineous pubescence , and with numerous short fine appressed blaek hairs , which are very sparse on the frons ; epistoma somewhat caerulescenti-griseus ; antennae dull black ; wings pale nigrescent with piceous nervures , slightly spinulose along the costal and apical margins ; pulvilli whitish .
Long. corp .
cT 3 , ?
4*5 ; al. ?
3 mm. H H Hal).\#151 ; Royal Sound ; common near Thumb Peak and Observatory Bay , among grass and stones along the upper limits of the sea-shore , and also in cliffs where Cormorants and Rock-liopper Penguins build .
It can jump hut not fly .
Dr. Kidder remarks of these flies that " they do not appear to jump in any " definite direction , hut spring into the air , buzzing the small winglets with great " activity , and seem to trust to chance for a spot on which to alight , tumbling over " and over in the air .
I never observed them jumping when undisturbed .
" This gives an accurate idea of their performance .
It may he mentioned that the only known species of the nearest allied British genus Hecamede has somewhat similar habits , being found on fresh marine rejectamenta , and but seldom attempting to fly .
is apparently less strictly confined to the shore , being commonest among the grass bordering the beach and among the birds ' nests in the cliffs .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 2 .
) Amalopteryx maritim(from the side ) ; a , antenna ; b , proboscis ( distended ) ; c , wing ; cl , posterior leg .
Apetenus , Eaton , 1875 .
Head roundly subquadrate , slightly transverse ; eyes oval convex ; epistoma carinate in the middle , somewhat retiring , about as long as wide , naked ; upper lip prominent , mouth opening of moderate size ; genae deep and wide , concave below the eye , their peristomal edge rather prominent , slightly everted and strongly bristled , the vibrissae are short , hut one of the bristles below the eye is patent and rather long ; hack of the head deeper than the width of the eye , convex , bristly ; occiput with 2 erect little bristles in the middle , and with 4 or 5 longer bristles on each side just behind the eye ; frons convex , rather broad , with long bristles , slightly tumid about the ocelli , the inner orbits rather broad with 3 almost equidistant bristles , of which the foremost two ascend upwards and backwards , and the hind one ascends outwards , there are also 2 bristles widely and transversely divergent near the hinder angle of the eye , and 2 prorect beside the foremost ocellus ; antennae short , the second joint spineless but with a long erect dorsal bristle in the middle , the third joint subrotund , compressed , the arista arising near the base , bare , the basal joints distinct ; proboscis short , stout ; labial lobes short , broad and ciliated , stipes with a small tuft of bristles beneath ; palpi short , clavate ; mandibles squamiform , very minute .
Thorax truncate behind , slightly convex in front ; setae long ; scutellum small , semi-elliptical , with 4 long setae ; wings minute squamiform ; halteres small ; legs simple , densely pubescent , with setae ; ungues slightly curved , rather short ; pulvilli distinct .
Abdomen 5-jointed , hirsute , the first joint very long ; the S genitalia and the ?
first joint of the ovipositor exposed .
DIPTERA.\#151 ; G. H. VERRALL .
The larvae feed upon tide refuse and Enteromorpha .
This genus apparently has relationship to Pel in a and Parydra ; but its affinities are not quite satisfactorily determined .
Apetenns litoralis .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 3 .
) Eaton , Ent .
Mo. Mag. , 1875 , xii .
58 .
See also Eaton , Proc. Hoy .
Soc. , 1875 , xxiii .
, p. 354 .
Imago .
Black , with very black bristles , and with a dense microscopically minute cinerescent pubescence : mouth pale , eyes piceous ; wings nigrescent , oblong , slightly emarginate near the apex , pubescent , setulose along the costa and at the apex , lialteres pale testaceous or , like the pulvilli , whitish ; legs hairy , the tibiae externally with dense spreading setulge , and at the apex internally often with some testaceous pubescence .
Abdomen with a pale cinereous spiracular line ; beneath pale with a longitudinal median black stripe , which is divided into two spots at the second segment , and in the ?
is continued as a black line along the proximal and the apical joints of the ovipositor ; eggs pale ochraceous ; the appendices of the male comprise a pair of arcuate finger-like connivent processes slightly pectinate towards the apex beneath , and a much shorter exterior pair of broadly triangular or ovate convex incurved flaps which enclose the others , there are besides a pair of very short linear and obtuse superior appendices .
Long. corp . ?
4'5\#151 ; 5 mm. Hab.\#151 ; Boyal Sound and Swain 's Bay , common amongst shore refuse .
The pale grey larvae were found amongst Enteromo ( Plate XIV .
, fig. 3 .
) Apetenus litoralis ( from the side ) .
antenna ; proboscis ; x , mandible ; e , wing ; d , posterior leg ; e , genitalia \lt ; $ .
BORBORINiE .
Anatalanta , E , 1875 .
Head somewhat rounded ; the epistoma retreating rapidly and deeply below the antennae curves out again to the produced mouth border , its limits are distinctly circumscribed by a fine line ; upper lip slightly projecting , the mouth opening very large ; peristoma rather bristly with the large vibrissa inserted at some little distance from the margin , genae broader than the eyes are deep ; back of the head inflated , more than half as wide as deep ; eyes prominent , small , round ; frons broad , with 2 very short little bristles near one another on the inner orbit ascending outwards , 2 longer widely divergent ascending as usual near the hinder angle of the eye , and 2 short prorect and slightly divergent near the foremost ocellus ; antennae short , rather distant at their insertion , second joint with two dorsal setae near the apex , third joint roundly reniform , somewhat deeper than H II 2 long , arista bare , very long , with distinct and slender basal joints , inserted nearly midway between the proximal and distal edges of the joint ; proboscis short and stout , the stipes very thick , hairy beneath , palpi slender clavate with rather compressed apices , mandibles small acute .
Mesothorax truncate before and behind , with scarcely any slope from the disc anteriorly , and without a trace of the suture ; wings utterly wanting ; one long bristle at the side about the middle just behind where the suture should be , one just above the position that would be occupied by the base of the wing , one behind it nearer the scutellum , and one on the disk just before the scutellum , on each side .
Scutellum transverse , with the hinder angles well defined , and with 4 long almost equidistant setae .
Halteres totally absent .
Legs slender and rather long without bristles excepting on the coxae and about the apex of the intermediate and posterior tibiae ; hind tarsus with the first joint dilated , more than half as long as the second joint , which is also slightly dilated and is almost as long as the remaining three taken together ; the thickened joints are densely pubescent beneath ; abdomen 6-jointed , flattened , in \#163 ; oval , in ?
broadly ovate and obtuse , the basal joint as long as the next two together , the bristles all very minute ; genitalia concealed .
Larva carnivorous , and probably also capable of thriving upon putrescent vegetable substances .
This genus comes very near Borborus , and especially to the subgenus Apterina of Macquart , in the condition of the hind tarsus and other salient characteristics .
It differs from it in the form of the palpi , in having no trace of either the wings or the halteres , and in the thorax being conspicuously narrow and small in comparison with the head and abdomen .
Anatalanta aptera .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 4 .
) Eaton , Ent .
Mo. Mag. 1875 , xii .
59 .
See also Eaton , Proc. Hoy .
Soc. 1875 , xxiii .
354 ; Moseley , Journ. Lin .
Soc. Botany , 1876 , xv .
54 ( apterous fly as large as a house fly ) ; Kidder , Bulletin E. S. Not .
Mus. 1876 , iii .
52 .
Imago closely invested with a black dense microscopically minute down ; eyes and legs piceous , femora nigrescent above ; mesothorax , legs , and abdomen with rather minute , crowded , more or less appressed , very black coarse hairs , which give to the dorsum of the mesothorax a peculiar falsely rugose appearance ; they are less obvious on the frons and more sparsely scattered ; the thickened joints of the posterior tarsi have a dense yellowish pubescence beneath , and the intermediate tibiae have one or two spine-like setae near their apex .
The larvae are found in dead birds .
Bab.\#151 ; Kerguelen Island , generally distributed near the sea .
This species was DIPTERA.\#151 ; G. H. YERRALL .
common under stones along the landward border of the shores of Observatory Bay , and also on dead birds in many places .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 4 .
) Anatalanta aptera ( \lt ; J from the side ) , 4 ' ( $ from above ) .
a , a1 , antennae from within and from without ; b , proboscis ; mandibles ; c , legs , c1 , anterior ; c2 , intermediate ; c3 , posterior leg .
NEMOCEBA .
Mycetophilid m. Sciarina : .
Sciara .
Sp.----- ?
A single female Sciara probably indigenous to the island , was taken on a window at " Elamsteed House , " Observatory Bay , on the 4th of January 1875 .
It would be absurd to describe it .
Cecidomyida : .
Lestremina : .
Limnophyes , Eaton .
1875 .
Imago ; head small , ovately triangular ; eyes roundly oval , hardly reniform ; ocelli absent ; antennae divergently prorect , filiform , 6-jointed , with sparse verticils of spreading hairs , the basal joint very stout , the second much smaller than the first , but yet slightly thicker than the remaining joints , which are of even width , the apical joint as long as the preceding two together ; mouth short , the margin hairy , palpi 4-jointed .
Thorax robust , above arched anteriorly and produced like a hood over the head , its contour viewed from above is somewhat ovate , and it has about four longitudinal rows of short fine sparse hairs ascending upwards and inwards ; scutellum moderately large , prominent , semicircular or roundly subquadrate .
Wings oblong , suddenly constricted at the base , rather straight along the costa , the apex almost parabolic , margins ciliated ; 4 longitudinal veins ( Nos. 1 , 3 , 4 , and 5 ) ; No. 1 very short , becoming obsolescent in the marginal area ; No. 3 extending beyond the middle of the costa ; No. 4 deeply forked , united by a cross-veinlet to No. 3 just beyond the point of furcation , its upper branch like No. 3 accompanied by a slight crease in the membrane ; No. 5 rather deeply forked , the furcation acute , similarly accompanied by a crease which follows its lower branch ; this last vein is succeeded by one or two longitudinal folds simulating additional nervures .
Halteres large .
Legs slender , with fine short hairs ; tibiae almost scabrous , with a minute spine at the apex interiorly ; the first tarsal joint much longer than the next .
Abdomen slender , 8-jointed , with a few fine hairs above ; ovipositor formed of two very short lamellae .
Larva not observed .
Allied to Campylomyza , but differing in the neuration of the wings , and in the deficiency of ocelli .
In the original diagnosis it was stated that the number of joints in the palpi and abdomen were respectively five and seven .
It appears to be more correct to regard them as being four and eight jointed .
The antennal joints are likely to vary in number with the sex , and to be more numerous in the male than in the female .
Limnophyes pusillus .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 5 .
) Eaton , Ent .
Mo. Mag. 1875 , xii .
60 .
See also Eaton , Proc. Hoy .
Soc. 1875 , xxiii .
354 ; Moseley , Journ. Lin .
Soc. Botany , 1876 , xv .
54 ( " winged gnat " ) ; Kidder , Bulletin IJ .
S. Not .
Mus. , 1876 , iii .
52 ( " small gnat " ) .
Imago.\#151 ; Head and thorax lutescent , eyes black , antennae griseous with the hasal joint pale ; mesothorax with a large lanceolate black dorsal spot in the middle , anteriorly ochreous at the sides above , the mesosternum nigrescent , and the wings almost imperceptibly cinerescent ; legs griseous with the coxae whitish .
Abdomen dull virescenti-griseous , with the last three segments nigrescent beneath .
Long. 9 1 mm. Hab.\#151 ; Boyal Sound , abundant .
Especially plentiful on moss in boggy places , and in windows .
It flies freely in calm sunny weather .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 5 .
) Limnophyes pusillus ( from the side .
) a , antenna ; b , palpus and mouth ( compressed ) ; c , head and thorax ( from the side ) .
Ghironomid^ : .
Halirytus , Ba , 1875 .
Imago ?
\#151 ; Head suborbicular , palpi very short , 2-jointed ; antennae divergent 6-jointed , the basal joint very large , nearly orbicular , the next four much smaller , suhmoniliform , the apical joint oval , about as long as the preceding two together , the basal joint has one rather short , and a few still shorter bristles near its middle , and the apical joint has a short bristle on one side , and a finer hair on the other side near its base , and some extremely minute pubescence , which is hardly discernible even under the microscope ; genae each with one minute bristle below the eye ; epistoma scutiform ; eyes suborbicular , protuberant , close to their upper orbit behind are three short bristles , the hinder two of which are near together ; ocelli absent .
Mesonotum somewhat cucullate , being strongly arched in front and projecting forwards above the head ; scutellum semi-elliptical , prominent , with a transverse line of minute erect bristles ; metanotum very transverse , exceedingly short ; the spiracles on each side of the mesothorax are very prominent ; wings rudimentary , DIPTERA.\#151 ; G. H. VERRALL .
somewhat narrowly obovate , reaching ; to the apex of the first abdominal segment ; halteres small , clavate and slender ; legs very long , the posterior tibiae not thickened nor spurred , the proximal joints of tarsi very long , ungues and pul villi very small .
Abdomen with 7 dorsal and 6 ventral segments ( exclusive of the base supporting the valves of the ovipositor ) , subcylindrical ; ovipositor pointed obliquely downwards , composed of a stout basal joint terminated by a pair of acute short lanceolate lamellae enclosing a smaller pair of spicules .
Male unknown .
The larva probably feeds on Enteromorpha .
This genus is akin to Corynoneura , from which it is separated by its jointed palpi , the comparative nakedness of its* antennae , its entire eyes , the spurless tibiae of which the hind pair is not thickened , and perhaps the number of abdominal segments .
If the portion reckoned above as the base of the ovipositor be regarded as a segment , then there is no difference between these genera in that last particular .
All the known species of Corynoneura are extremely minute .
In the original diagnosis the number of the segments was said to be five ; they were enumerated from below , and the proximal segment was taken to be metathoracic .
Halirytus amphibius .
( Plate XIV .
, fig. 6 .
) Eaton , Ent .
Mo. Mag. 1875 , xii .
60 .
See also Eaton , Proc. Boy .
Soc. 1875 , xxiii .
354 .
( " Another seems to be a degraded member of the Tipulidae , " as limited in Westw .
Introd .
) Possibly also Mr. Moseley 's " apterous gnat ( Cut ex ) " belongs here ; Moseley , Journ. Lin .
Soc. Botany , 1876 , xv .
54 .
Imago .
Black above , virescenti-griseous beneath and at the sides of the thorax ; head virescenti-griseous , with eyes and labrum black , antennae pale cinereous ; wings and halteres opaque , whitish ; legs virescenti-griseous , with scattered minute black hairs ; abdominal segments above , each with a fine transverse black line at the base , whose extremities are produced obliquely backwards and downwards for a short distance on each side , the tips of the segments narrowly whitish ; beneath the tips of the segments are pale , the remaining dark portion of each segment is enclosed by a black line , and stippled with pale dots ( at the insertion of minute hairs ) , and in the middle of their bases some segments have two diverging black lines , others have black stripes ; the base of the ovipositor is black , its ventral portion is scutiform with the apiculus bifid , and anteriorly is punctulated like the previous central segments ; the laminae of the ovipositor are testaceous .
Long. corp .
$ 4\#151 ; 5 mm. Hab.\#151 ; Boyal Sound and Swain 's Bay , at the verge of the tide , creeping over Enter omorpha and Mussels exposed by the recess of the sea , and walking upon the surface of puddles and tide-pools .
Near Observatory Bay the fly was common upon some small isolated rocks which were always submerged at high water .
The adults in that locality must spend a large portion of their lives under water , and hence the species was named H. amphibius .
All of them were females ; none were actually seen beneath the surface .
Probably whenever the water has retired sufficiently from the top of the rocks , all the flies hurry up from below to take an airing .
It is rather likely that the males have fully developed wings , and are able to fly .
Plate XIV .
, fig. 6 , Halirytus amphibius ( from the side ) : , antennae ; legs\#151 ; h\ anterior ; b2 , intermediate ; lf\ posterior .
Netjroptera.\#151 ; By the Rev. A. B. Eaton .
* [ PSOCOLE .
Rhyopsocus eclipticus , ELagen .
Bulletin TJ .
S. Nat. Mus. , 1876 , iii .
52\#151 ; 57 .
The true Neuroptera of Kerguelen Island are as plentiful as the snakes of Iceland ; and it is doubtful whether there is any representative of this order indigenous to it , unless the Mallophaga\gt ; which must be placed somewhere , are reckoned as members of it .
Por the species of the Psocidce cited above , described from a single example taken at Molloy Point , and mounted on glass in balsam as a microscopic object , is of uncertain nationality , and may have accompanied the American Transit of Venus Expedition from Washington .
Dr. Kidder ( loc. cit. ) , recording its apprehension cc on October 17 , within doors , " remarks , " Shortly before " its capture some instrument-boxes , brought from Washington , and containing a \lt ; \#163 ; quantity of packing straw,.had been unpacked in the same room ; a circumstance " rendering the habitat of the insect very doubtful at the time .
" ] I C O.yyoiA^hoTxser , Ji .
E'.TS aA'OTte , \amp ; , jS .
tkor't\amp ; r ' di\#163 ; L. Zoology .
PI .
XEV .
dCir^ckCo.sc- .
'2\amp ; C\amp ; , CcSO :

