lII .
Sonte Facts relvtive to the latf Mr. John Huntersprepa rdti3n for tbeC:roonian Lecture .
By Everard Home , Esq. F R.SX Read l9ovember 14 , 179g .
Mx .
HUNTER having announced to the Royal Society that he-would make the structure of the crystalline humour of the eye the subject of the CROONIAN lecture for the present year and havin$ , unfortunately for science , died before his observations -on that subject were renelered complete , I feel it a duty I owe to his memory , -as well as to the Society , to state the facts respecting this humour with which he had acquainted me X and shall suoirl an unfinished letter from Mr. HUNTER tQ Sir JO-SEPH BANKS on the same subject .
It 1S now many years that Mr. HUNTER has had an ideas that the crystalline humour was enabled by its owrl internal actions to adjust itself , -so as to adapt the eye to diSerent distances C and : where &gt; the Tmnia hydatigena first came under his observation as a living animal , he-was surprised to see the quantity of cQzltraction that took place in a membrane devoid of muscularfibres , but made use of the fact in his investigation of thestructure Of the crystalline haxnour of the eye .
Some time after this , having occasion to dissect the eJ7e of the cuttle-fish , , which he Ilad frequently done before but not with exactly the same view , he -discovered in he crystalline humour a structure which corresponded with the idea he had formed of its actions in the human eye .
He found it composed of lamin ) whose afppearance was evidently fibro-us for some depth from the extertlal surice ; but becoming less and less distinct ) till at last this fibrous appearance was entirely lost and the midEllen or cerltral part of the humour , was compact and transparenta withlout any vislble laulinaei From this structure it would appear ) that in the eye of the cuttle-fish the ex-terior parts of the laumour are fibrous the interior parts not a so that the central part is a nucleas round which the fibrous coverings are placed .
Tlle preparations which dernonstraAte these facts will be laid beforFe the Society .
As the structure of the crystalline humour in the cuttlefish differs in nothing from that of the same htlmour in ot ; her animaISn bUt in the distinCtneSS Of the fibrOUS appearancef Mr HUNTER was led to consider that the exterior part in all of them was similar , a1thOUgh no appearance of fibres could be ?
) demonstrated .
What I have here expiained , I was acquainted with at the time I had the honour of giving the CROONIAN lectureS in. .
which I examined thef diiretzt svrllctures endowed with muscular action ; antl was desi-rous that lSzfr .
HUNTER -would. .
either of himselfn or through me ?
communicate these observao tions to the Society ; but this he declined doing till he had ascertained , by experimenta whether any nluscular eiect was really producAedi ; and the hope of being assisted by Mr. RAMSDEN made him from timet to txme put oW making his experiments .
Inj the course of this season he began his experiments , which were founded upon the analogy that ought to existbetweerl tHis humour , if muscular and others of a similar structurej which led him to expect that they would be acted upon by the same stimuli : and having found that a certain degree of heat , applied through the medium of mrater , will excite muscular action , after almost every offier stimulus had failed , it was proposed to apply this to the crystalline humourn and ascertain its effects .
The crystalline humour taken from animals recently killed , must be considered as being still alive .
Such hutnours were to the immersed in water of different temperatures , and placed in such a manner as to form the image of a lucid well delSned -object , by a proper apparatus for that purpose , so that any change of the place of that itnage from the stimulating effects of the warm water upon the hulnour would be readily ascertained .
These were the esperiments which Mr. HUNTER had instituted and begun a but in which he had not made suffi-cient progress to enable hi-trz : to draw any concl:usions .
To Sir JOSEPH BANKS , f}\#162 ; Om Mr. HUNTER ; .,. .
Slr , When I did myself the honour of giving in my claim to the discovery of tl e crystalline huxrlour being muscular , and proposed to makeit the subject of 4 ; he CR-OONIAN letture , I did not foresee that any thing could prevent me from fulfilling my prornise ; but since ttnat time what with my state of healthr which does not allow me to be very actisre ; the hurry of official business on aceou-nt of the w-ar , and my brotlierin-law , Mjr .
Ho , being employed on the medical staff ; I ]aave-vlothad the poswer of repeating my experiments , and drawing out .
to my satisfaction , the many conclusions wlnich are the result of such a-power in this humour .
Tlle laws of optics are so well understood , and the know ledge of the eye , when consi-dered -as an optical in-strumentf izas been rendered so perfect , that I clo l1Qt consider myself capable of lnaking any addition to it ; but still there is a power Vin the eye by which it can adapt itself to different distances lar too extensive for the simple mechatlism of the parts to effect .
l[lais power xvriters upon this subject have been at great pains to investigate and explai-n.| &gt; Tlle motion of the crystalline humotlr Forwards and back:wards ) was asserted by some to Rbe the cause , while others -supposed in the eye a power to alter its shape , so fas to s]lorten or lengtlaen it ; s axis , which altered the distance betweela the crystalline hurnour and the point of irtlpre-ssion ; but veSshould consi-der that a part of the eye is itself a refractor , and that if its shape be altered so as to remove the crystallXine humour from the point of impression , ila order to enable it to bring a distant object to its proper focus ion the retina , this eSect will be in some degree counteracted by the arlterior part of the eye refracting more than before , ; by being rendered more consTex .
But we have , in fact , no power .
capable of producing this effect ; for the straight museles , so far from appearing to have this power have been even supposed to Ratten the eye , and shorten its axis : and it is very possible that the action of these muscles is such as tends to hoth effiectsX but being in opposition to each other , the eye retains its shapeX the insertion of these muscles being much more forwards than appears to be necessary for the simple motions of the eye .
Fllrther , when we consider that in many:animals the shape of the eye is unalterable , as in all of the whale tribe the sclerotic coat being above half at1 inch thick , and composed of a strong tendinous substance .
In many fish this coat is composed of cartilage ; and in all birds the anterior part of it is ( I believe ) composed of bone .
Frotn all these considerations , I saw no power that could adapt the eye to the various dis ; tances of which we find it capable in the human body , unless we suppose the crystalline humour to be varied in figure , which can only be effected by a muscular action within itself .
&gt; With this idea $trongly impressed 1lpon my mind and finding that in many anim ; alswhen the crystalline humour was coagulated , it had a fibrous structure like musclesX I confess it seerned-to me to confirm itS but as this mightSto -others appearv only conjecturey requiring some proof , I set about such experiments as were best adapted for that purJpose .
Knowing that in all violent deaths the muscles contract I supposed th@ crystalline humour , if muscular , would show signs of this effiect ; for which purpose I got the eyes of bullocks wlen removed from the socketss the moment the anitnal was knocked d-owrl , and while the eyes were warrn the humours were removed5 " Mr. HUNTER had proceeded thus far in the account of his txperiments , when he was suddenly , and very unexpectedlys carried offand as he has left no nvotes upon this subject , I am unable to make any addition to the account I have already given .
Mr. HUNTER'S latring claim to the discovery of a fibrous $tructure in the crystalline humour , which had been observed long before , and described by the accurate LEUWENHOEK , may appear to require some explanation .
The discovery of a fibrotls appearance in that htlmourf appertains to ISEUWENHOES ; but the discovery of an eye in which this structsure of the crzrstallille humour was perfectly distinct , and in which all the circum stances , of course , and situation , could be deterrrlined , is due to Mr. HUNTER : and if it should be found by future obseraration and experiments that this structure which ] is different from any that has hitherto been describedf is capable o\#163 ; producing consequent actions and effiects ) sufficient to explain the acljustment of the eye to different distances , it will not b-e considered as a small or unimportant discovery .
The Inelancholzr event which has deprived this learned Society of sv valuable a member and which Shas takerl from me so able an insttuctor so rare an example , and so inestimable a friend is too\ recent , to make any apology necessary -for the shortness ?
or incorrectness of this account. .
I thought it due to the menaory of my fFiend that no promise of his , however inadequate I feel myself to the performance , should be left unful filled * and the .
circumstances of distress , under which it has been drawn up will.procure for me every irldulgence from this learned Society .
Leicester SquareX EVERARD HOME .
Nolr .
4 , I793 These fibres are not uniform circles or ovals since the layers are of different thicknesses in particular parts ; aa the lSbres where they are most numerous ; bb where they are least so .
Fig. 2d .
A section of the crystalline humour , the central part being removed , toshew the fibrous structure of the sur-rounding lamin .

