1895 .
] On the new Gas obtained from II .
" On the New Gas obtained from Uraninite .
Fifth Note .
" By .T .
Norman Lockyer , C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 29 , 1895 .
In a former communication I pointed out the spectroscopic evidence , furnished by the isolation of lines in certain minerals , which indicates that the complete spectrum obtained when brog-gerite is submitted to the distillation method is produced by a mixture of gases .
In order to test this view , I have recently made some observations , based on the following considerations .
( 1 .
) In a simple gas like hydrogen , when the tension of the electric current given by an induction coil is increased , by inserting first a jar , and then an air-break into the circuit , the effect is to increase the brilliancy and the breadth of all the lines , the brilliancy and breadth being greatest when the longest air-break is used .
( 2 .
) Contrariwise , when we are dealing with a known compound gas ; at the lowest tension we may get the complete spectrum of the compound without any trace of its constituents , and we may then , by increasing the tension , gradually bring in the lines of the constituents , until , when complete dissociation is finally reached , the spectrum of the compound itself disappears .
Working on these lines , the spectrum of the spark at atmospheric pressure , passing through the gas , or gases , distilled from broggerite , has been studied with reference to the special lines C ( hydrogen ) , D3 , 667 , and 447 .
The first result is that all the lines do not vary equally , as they should do if we were dealing with a simple gas .
The second result is that at the lowest tension 667 is relatively more brilliant than the other lines ; on increasing the tension , C and D3 considerably increase their brilliancy , 667 relatively and absolutely becoming more feeble , while 447 , seen easily as a narrow line at low tension , is almost broadened out into invisibility as the tension is increased in some of the tubes , or is greatly brightened as well as broadened in others ( fig. 1 ) .
4471 ' D3 c 5875 .
6565.667 .
Fig. 1 .
Diagram showing changes in intensities of lines brought about by varying the tension of the spark .
1 .
Without air-break .
2 .
With air-break .
194 On the new Gas obtained from Uraninite .
[ June 13 , The above observations were made with a battery of five Grove cells ; the reduction of cells from 5 to 2 made no difference in the phenomena except in reducing their brilliancy .
Reasoning from the above observations , it seems evident that the effect of the higher tension is to break up a compound , or compounds , of which C , D3 and 447 represent constituent elements ; while , at the same time , it would appear that 667 represents a line of some com-pound which is simultaneously dissociated .
The unequal behaviour of the lines has been further noted in another experiment , in which the products of distillation of broggerite were observed in a vacuum tube and photographed at various stages .
After the first heating , D3 and 4471 were seen bright , before any lines other than those of carbon and hydrogen made their appearance .
With continued heating , 667 , 5016 , and 492 also appeared , although there was .no notable increase of brightness in the yellow line ; still further heating introduced additional lines 5048 and 6347 .
These changes are represented graphically in the following diagram ( fig. 2 ) .
447 .
492.50 5 1 3876 .
634 .
667 .
MFig .
2.\#151 ; Diagram showing order in which lines appear in spectrum of vacuum tube when broggerite is heated .
It was recorded further that the yellow line was at times dimmed , while the other lines were brightened .
In my second note , communicated to the Royal Society on the 8th instant , I stated that I had never once seen the lines recorded by Thalen in the blue , at \ 4922 and 4715 .
It now seems possible that their absence from my previous tubes was due to the fact that the heating , of the minerals was not sufficiently prolonged to bring out the gases producing these lines .
It is perhaps to the similar high complexity of the gas obtained from cleveite that the curious behaviour of a tube which Professor Ramsay was so good as to send me , must be ascribed .
When I received it from him , the glorious yellow effulgence of the capillary , while the current was passing , was a sight to see .
But after this had gone on for some time , while the coincidence of the yellow line with D3 of the chromosphere was being inquired into , the luminosity of the tube was considerably reduced , and the colours in the capillary 1895.1 Lyginodendron and Heterangium .
195 and near the poles were changed .
From the capillary there was but a feeble glimmer , not of an orange tint , while the orange tint was now observed near the poles , the poles themselves being obscured by a coating on the glass of brilliant metallic lustre .
After attempting in vain for some time to determine the cause of the inversion of Ds and 447 in various photographs I had obtained of the spectra of the products of distillation of many minerals , it struck me that these results might be associated with the phenomena exhibited by the tube , and that one explanation would be rendered more probable if it could be shown that the change in the illumination of the tube was due to the formation of platinum compounds , platinum poles being used .
On May 21st I accordingly passed the current and heated one of the poles , rapidly changing its direction to assure the action of the negative pole , when the capillary shortly gave a very strong spectrum of hydrogen , both lines and structure .
A gentle heat was continued for some time and apparently the pressure in the tube varied very considerably , for as it cooled the hydrogen disappeared and the D3 line shone out with its pristine brilliancy .
The experiment was repeated on May 24th and similar phenomena were observed .
III .
" Further Observations on the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
Part III .
and Heterangium."By W. C. WILLIAMSON , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Emeritus Professor of Botany in the Owens College , Manchester , and D. H. Scott , M.A. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Honorary Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received May 14 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) Introduction .
The two genera , Lyginodendrcn and are among the most interesting and at the same time the most puzzling representatives of the Carboniferous flora .
Although we are still without any satisfactory evidence as to the reproductive organs in either genus , yet the organisation of their vegetative members is preserved with such completeness and perfection as to show that these fossils present a combination of characters such as exists in no living group of plants .
The evidence afforded by the vegetative characters clearly points to a position intermediate between ferns and Cycadese .

