358 Dr. T. S. Humpidge .
[ June 21 , XIII .
" Reply to a Note by Professor J. E. Reynolds on the Atomic Weight of Glucinum or Beryllium .
" By T. S. Humpidge , Ph. D. , B.Sc. Communicated by Dr. Frankland , F.R.S. Received June 7 , 1883 .
In the above-mentioned note of Professor Reynolds* the author criticises the results detailed in a paper which I recently had the honour to contribute to the Society , f and draws an inference from the specific heats of different specimens of the metal which I cannot admit to be founded on facts .
Professor Reynolds remarks that all the results obtained by Nilson and myself tend in one direction , viz. , to a considerable , though irregular , rise in the specific heat as the impurities diminish .
If , however , we compare the three determinations from which this j inference is drawn\#151 ; Percentage of Specific heat at glucinum .
45'\#151 ; 50 ' .
Nilson . .
... ... .
87-09 ... ... 0-4084 Humpidge__________ 93*97 ______ 0-4453 Nilson ... ... ... . .
94-41 ... ... 0*4246 we find that , together with a general rise in the specific heat , there is also a fall between that of the second and third sample which is proportionally greater that the general rise .
In other words , the irregularity nearly counterbalances the regularity .
On the other hand , as I have already stated , my result is probably slightly too high , owing to the heat produced on the absorption of the turpentine by the porous metal .
In Nilson 's experiments the metal was enclosed in a platinum capsule .
But even admitting this general rise in the specific heat with diminished impurities , it hardly appears that the specific heat of the pure fused metal could be as much as 50 per cent , greater than in the crystalline state .
It rather appears that glucinum is either an exception to Dulong and Petit 's law of atomic heats or to Mendeleeffs periodic law .
I hope shortly to contribute some further evidence to the solution of this exceedingly interesting question , and am now making preparations for a revision of the specific heats of the solid elements in the pure state , and at different temperatures .
Next with regard to the purity of the metal as prepared by my process .
The 7 decigrammes which were used for the determination of the specific heat was the first sample prepared , and included all I had then extracted .
It ought not , therefore , to be compared with * Read May 24 , 1883 , " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 35 , p. 248 .
f Head April 12 , 1883 , lb. , p. 137t 1883 * ] Atomic Weight of Glu or Beryllium .
tilson 's picked 2 decigrammes , but ratber with his first sample , containing 13 per cent , of impurities .
Since sending in my paper I have prepared more that 3 grms. of much purer metal , and can now obtain any quantity in yields of 3 to 5 decigrammes for each experiment .
The metal is decidedly crystalline in structure , mostly in thin plates of a high metallic lustre , and of a grayish colour resembling iron .
No accurate analysis of these samples of the metal has been made , as it has been nearly all used for the attempted preparation of organo-glucinum compounds .
But in my next contribution to the Society I hope to be able to give accurate analyses of several samples .
I only briefly alluded to the theoretical aspects of the question in my paper , and do not intend to refer to this until I have more evidence to offer than a determination of the specific heat between 10 .and 100 ' C. ; but the very remarkable result arrived at by Professor Hartley from spectroscopic evidence cannot be left unnoticed .
This chemist concludes from his experiments that glucinum is a dyad metal , and that its homologues are calcium , strontium , and barium elements with which it has not the slightest analogy .
And it seems strange that Professor Hartley should consider some slight spectroscopic resemblance between glucinum and the metals of the alkaline earths to outbalance all the weighty chemical and physical differences between them .
Glucinum differs strikingly from the metals of the alkaline earths , both in the free state and combined as oxide , as hjdrate , carbonate , oxalate , chloride , fluoride , sulphate , \amp ; c. If glucinum is really a dyad metal ( which may possibly be the case ) , its nearest homologues are decidedly magnesium and zinc ; not calcium .
'Strontium , and barium .
XIV .
" Remarks on Spectrum Photography in Relation to New Methods of Quantitative Chemical Analysis .
Part I. " By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S.E. , Professor of Chemistry , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received June 20 , 1883 .
[ Publication deferred .
] XV .
" On a New Standard ot Illumination and the Measurement \#171 ; f Light .
" By W. H. Preece , F.R.S. Received June 21 , 1383 .
^Publication deferred .
] The Society adjourned over the Long Vacation to Thursday , Novembe* 15th .

