]\gt ; The of Argon , of the Dispersion of Helium , ] ) , and By CLIVE , Fellow of University , London , MAUDE ( Communicated by Prof. F. T. Trouton , F.R.S. Received -Iarch16 , \mdash ; Read Apri114 , 1910 .
) So far as we are aware only four determinations of the of have been published .
These are as BoyRoy .
SocSoc .
ProcP oaudA , .
vol. 67 , p. 331 .
S berg , ' Iuaug .
Diss .
Halle , ' 1909 .
filst two determinations only deal with the refraction of white hile the value of 's results is limited the fact that he able to count 12 in the red and bands at the other elected ; so that his whole dispersion effect must have been about one hand in the violet , a number which is insufficient to ensure reat a. Another determination may not , therefore , be considered superfluous .
The specimen of argon used by us was kindly lent by Sir )amsay , by whom it was purified .
The showed a trace of ) none of other gases .
The mean of seven experiments a refractive index of for the .
These deternlintions varied between and .
The dispelsion was measured for the seven wave-lengths ( Cd ) , , , , ( Ag ) , ( Cd ) , ( Cd ) .
The first two columns of the ] .
table show the esults .
refractivity is here doubled in order to facilitate comparison with the diatomic gases :\mdash ; C. Cuthbertson and M. Cuthbertson .
[ Mar. 16 , For the reasons iven in a previous paper* the dispersion formula was adopted ; and the values of the constants were calculated , by the method of least squares , from all the determinations except that for , which was evidently affected by error ( a cause for which could be ) .
The value of was found to be and of to be .
The numbers calculated from this formula are given in Column 3 and the differences ween the calculated and observed results are shown in Column 4 .
It will be seen that the , refractivities for different can genel.ally be trusted to one or two points in the fifth significant crure .
In these experiments the number of bands read 5461 varied between 300 and 400 , and the discrepancy between observation and experiment corresponds to an error of less than one-fiftieth of an interference band , a degree of accuracy greater than there was reason to expect .
Our values of the constants compare as follows with the results of Burton and Ahrberg when their figures are expressed in the formula used by Observer .
AhlbergBur.tonC .
Although we had recently published determinations of the refractive indices of the other inert gases , we were tempted by the in the source of light and in the disposition of our apparatus to repeat ob.servations on them in order to bring them all up to the same level of accuracy .
Table II shows the experimental results ( doubled as in the case of ) .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 83 , p. 152 .
We used Dr. T. M. Lowry 's arc with poles of cadmium and silver alloy .
By substituting for one electrode an alloy of silver and lithium , kindly made for us by Messrs. Johnson and Matthey ( about 98 per cent. Ag , 2 per cent. Li ) , we were able use the lithium line in the later experiments .
1910 .
] The of , etc. The ures in the columns : ' ilated \ldquo ; were derived from the constants of the equation shown in Table III , which calculated from the observations by the method of least squares .
IL will be found ) the discrepancies .
the erved and calculated results are of the same order as in the case of argon .
The maximum numbol of bands read in the case of each element is given in the same table .
The figures given in the values of the refractivities for which were assumed for the calculation of the sion .
They not redetermined , ) taken from previous neasulements .
Table minations of the Dispersion of Helium , ypton , and Xenon .
Table III .
activities of Inert Values of Constants in the Equation .
It is satisfactory to find that the values of now obtained these mole accurate measurements do not differ in any case by more than 2 per cent. from the values published by us in September last .
* For the loan of all these gases we have to thank Sir William amsay , and we have also pleasure in recording our obligations to Prof. Trouton , and to the Royal Society for a grant .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , p. 149 , 1909 .

