4 Animal Remains in the Coal of Nova Scotia .
[ June 2 , ( 17 .
) Illumination of the Field.\#151 ; The method of examination , which is due to Captain Abney , is described .
The question of the falling off of the intensity oi illumination from the centre of the plate is discussed .
II .
" Supplementary Report on Explorations of Erect Trees containing Animal Remains in the Coal-Formation of Nova Scotia .
" By Sir J. William Dawson , F.R.S. Received April 25 , 1892 .
To the memoir which I had the honour to present to the Royal Society on this subject in 1882* I appended a note from Dr. Scudder , of Cambridge , U.S. , so well known for his researches in fossil Insects and Arachnidans , in which he gave a preliminary account of the remains of Arthropods in my collections which I had submitted to him .
He has only in the present year completed his examination of these remains , most of which are very fragmentary , and much damaged by unequal pressure .
The result has been embodied in a Report on Canadian Fossil Insects , now in course of publication by the Geological Survey of Canada .
In this report he will describe from the contents of the Sigillarian stumps extracted by me , with the aid of the grant of this Society , three new species of Myriapoda , making , with the five previously known from these remarkable repositories , eight in all , belonging to two families , Archiulidse and Euphoberidse , and to three genera , Archiulus , Xylobius , and Amynilyspes .
The three new species are Archiulus euphoberioides , Sc. , A. L , Sc. , and Amynilyspes ( sp. ) .
The remains of Scorpions he refers to three species , Mazonia acadica , Sc. , Mazonia ( sp. ) , and a third represented only by small fragments .
The characters of the species referred to Mazonia he considers as tending to establish the generic distinctness of Mazonia from pius .
Dr. Scudder also notices the fragment of an insect 's head containing part of a facetted eye , mentioned in my memoir , and considers it probably a portion of a Cockroach .
Much credit is due to Dr. Scudder for the care and skill with which he has worked up the mostly small and obscure fragments which I was able to submit to him , and which are probably little more than debris of the food of the Amphibians living for a time in these hollow stumps , and devouring such smaller animals as were so unfortunate as to be imprisoned with them .
In this connexion the suggestion of Dr. Scudder is worthy of attention , that the scaly armour of the smaller Microsaurians may have been intended to defend them against the active and venomous Scorpions which were their contemporaries , and some of which were sufficiently large to * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1S82 , p. 621 .
1892 .
] Dr. A. Hill .
The Hippocampus .
be formidable antagonists to the smaller land Vertebrates of the period .
The report of Dr. Scudder will complete the account of the land animals of the erect Sigillarise of the South Joggins , unless by new falls of the cliff fresh trees should be exposed .
From 1851 , when the first remains were obtained from these singular repositories by the late Sir Charles Lyell and the writer , up to the present time , they have afforded the remains of twelve species of Amphibians , three land Snails , eight Millipedes , three Scorpions , and an Insect .
The type specimens of these animals have been placed in the Peter Redpath Museum of McGill University , and such duplicates as are available will be sent to the British Museum and that of the Geological Survey of Canada .
III .
" The Hippocampus .
" By Alex Hill , M.D. , Master of Downing College .
Communicated by Prof. A. Macalister , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 4 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The subject of this paper is the hippocampal region of the brain in anosmatic animals .
Several specimens of the brain of the bottlenosed whale , narwhal , porpoise , and calf-seal were obtained for the purpose of studying the extent to which the hippocampus in animals totally destitute of the sense of smell , or possessing it in a very small degree , departs from the ordinary type .
The hippocampal region was , in each case , cut into a series of ections , which showed that there is , in the brains of Hyperoodon and Monodon , no fascia dentata ; in this formation is very rudimentary ; in Phoca it is rather less strongly developed than in man .
As a standard of comparison , the hippocampus of the ox was studied in a similar manner .
Certain points which have not been described hitherto with regard to the anatomy and histology of the hippocampus in macrosmatic brains are noticed .
Other peculiarities in the general form and in minute structure which distinguish the brains of anosmatic animals are also mentioned incidentally .
The discovery that the fascia dentata is completely absent in animals which possess no olfactory bulb or tract , and that it varies in development directly as the size of these organs , throws light upon the function of the hippocampal region , and seems to call for a fresh definition of its several parts and a revision of the nomenclature of the region .
The paper contains an historical survey of the terminology and suggestions for its revision .

