1879 .
] Mr. F. Galton on th Geometric .
365 Le Bel and Wassermann have found that cold hydrochloric acid has no action on it , from which it follows that , if normal hexane from mannite yields a hexylene combining with hydrochloric acid in the -cold , it could he only diethylhexylene , which could be easily identified by conversion into ethylpropyl carbinol and oxidising it , when only propionic acid should be formed .
This was my programme ; the results were , however , quite unexpected .
The hexylene obtained by decomposing the hexyl chlorides was left in contact with cold fuming hydrochloric acid for some weeks .
The whole of it combined and the hexyl chloride thus formed boiled constantly and without the least decomposition at 124\#151 ; 125 ' .
It was converted into the alcohol , which on oxidation yielded only acetic acid and butyric acid , and consequently is methylbutyl carbinol .
We have , therefore , the remarkable fact , that two hexanes exist , which must be regarded as normal compounds , and therefore according to our present theory , to be identical .
This is , however , not the case .
I have already in my first paper pointed out some other differences existing between the two hexanes , but left the question open , whether these are caused by impurities contained in the hexane from petroleum , or whether we have here a case of fine isomerism , for which an explanation has to be found.* I believe the results of my present research speak strongly in favour of the latter view .
For several reasons I am inclined to believe that petroleum consists chiefly of an inextricable mixture of isomeric and homologous paraffins , in which , however , the normal hydrocarbons preponderate .
This would certainly explain why it is so difficult to isolate from it bodies having a constant boiling point , f but not the differences exhibited by the two hexanes .
A continuation of these researches has already been commenced .
My friend Thorpe , who has made the most interesting discovery that the terebinthinate exudation of Pimis Sabiniana contains a large quantity of normal heptane , J has kindly offered me to join him in the chemical investigation of this hydrocarbon .
At the same time we shall compare it with other " normal " heptanes from different sources .
XII .
" The Geometric Mean , in Vital and Social Statistics .
" By Francis Galton , F.R.S. Received October 21 , 1879 .
My purpose is to show that an assumption which lies at the basis of the well-known law of " Frequency of Error " ( commonly expressed * " Phil. Trans. , " vol. clxii , p. 119 .
t " Journ. Chem. Soc.1875 , p. 306 .
" Journ. Chem. Soc. , " 1879 , p. 296 .
Mr. F. Galton on the Geometric Mean .
[ Nov. 20r by the formula y=e~ !
t*x* ) , is incorrect in many groups of vital anti social phenomena , although that law has been applied to them by sta-1 tisticians with partial success and corresponding convenience .
Next , I will point out the correct hypothesis upon which a Law of Error| suitable to these cases ought to be calculated ; and subsequently I will communicate a memoir by Mr. Donald McAlister , who , at my suggestion , has mathematically investigated the subject .
The assumption to which I refer is , that errors in excess or in deficiency of the truth are equally probable ; or conversely , that if two fallible measurements have been made of the same object , their arithmetical mean is more likely to be the true measurement than any other quantity that can be named .
This assumption cannot be justified in vital phenomena .
For example , suppose we endeavour to match a tint ; Fechner 's law , in its approximative and simplest form of sensation=log stimulus , tells us that a series of tints , in which the quantities of white scattered on a black ground are as 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , 32 , \amp ; c. , will appear to the eye to be separated by equal intervals of tint .
Therefore , in matching a grey that contains 8 portions of white , we are just as likely to err by selecting one that has 16 portions as one that has 4 portions .
In the first case there would be an error in excess , of 8 ; in the second there would be an error in deficiency , of 4 .
Therefore , an error of the same magnitude in excess or in deficiency is not equally probable in the judgment of tints by the eye .
Conversely , if two persons , who are equally good judges , describe their impressions of a certain tint , and one says that it contains 4 portions of white and the other that it contains 16 portions , the most reasonable conclusion is that it really contains 8 portions .
The arithmetic mean of the estimates .
4 + 16 or 10 , which is not the most probable value .
It is the geometric mean 8 ( 4 : 8 : : 8 : 16 ) which is the most probable .
Precisely the same condition characterises every determination by any of the senses ; for example , in judging of the weight of bodies and of their temperatures , of the loudness and of the pitch of tones , and of estimates of lengths and distances as wholes .
Thus , three rods of the lengths a , b , c , when taken successively in the hand , appear to differ by equal intervals when a : b : : b : C , and not when a\#151 ; \#151 ; c. In all physiological phenomena , where there is on the one hand a stimulus and on the other a response to that stimulus , Fechner 's law may be assumed to prevail ; in other words , the true mean is the geometric .
The same condition of the geometric mean appears to characterise the majority of the influences , which , combined with those of purely vital phenomena , give rise to the events with which sociology deals .
It is difficult to find terms sufficiently general to apply to the varied topics of sociology , but there are two categories of causes , which are '1879 .
] On the Law of the Geometric Mean .
367 of common occurrence .
The one is that of ordinary increase , as ( exemplified by the growth of population , where an already large ' nation tends to become larger than a small one under similar cir-icumstances , or when a capital employed in a business increases in proportion to its size .
The other category is that of surrounding t influences , or " milieux " as they are often called , such as a period of plenty in which a larger field or a larger business yields a greater ^excess over its mean yield th\amp ; n a smaller one .
Most of the causes ' of those differences with which sociology are concerned , and which are not purely vital phenomena , such as those already discussed , may ; be classified under one or other of these two categories , or under such .
as are in principle almost the same .
In short , sociological phenomena , like vital phenomena are , as a general rule , subject to the condition of the geometric mean .
The ordinary law of Frequency of Error , based on the arithmetic \#166 ; mean , corresponds , no doubt , sufficiently well with the observed facts : of vital and social phenomena , to be very serviceable to statisticians , but it is far from satisfying their wants , and it may lead to absurdity j when applied to wide deviations .
It asserts that deviations in excess must be balanced by deviations of equal magnitude in deficiency [ therefore , if the former be greater than the mean itself , the latter i must be less than zero , that is , must be negative .
This is an impossi-j bility in many cases , to which the law is nevertheless applied by statis-:\#166 ; ticians with no small success , so long as they are content to confine its | application within a narrow range of deviation .
Thus , in respect of stature , the law is very correct in respect to ordinary measurements , .
although it asserts that the existence of giants , whose height is more than double the mean height of their race , implies the possibility of the existence of dwarfs , whose stature is less than nothing at all .
It is , therefore , an object not only of theoretical interest but of i practical use , to thoroughly investigate a Law of Error , based on the \ geometric mean , even though some of the expected results may i perhaps be apparent at first sight .
With this view I placed the fore-| going remarks in Mr. Donald McAlister 's hands , who contributes the | following memoir .
IXIII .
" The Law of the Geometric Mean .
" By Donald McAlister , B.A. , B.Sc. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Francis Galton , F.R.S. Received October 21 , 1879 .
Suppose we have before us a large number of measurements .
They I may either be all approximations to the true value of a single unknown | quantity , or may refer to the several members of a large class .
The

