The reading of a paper , entitled " Contributions to the Chemical History of the Compounds of Palladium and Platinum .
" By Robert Kane , M.D. , M.R.I.A. , communicated by Francis Bailey , Esq. , V.P.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
The author states it to be his object , in this and in some subse ?
quent papers , to examine specially the composition and properties of the compounds of palladium , platinum , and gold ; and to ascertain how far they agree , and in what they differ , as to the laws of com ?
bination to which these compounds are subjected .
He commences with the investigation of the compounds of palladium , employing for that purpose a portion of that metal with which he was furnished by the Royal Society out of the quantity bequeathed to the Society by the late Dr. Wollaston .
He describes the mode of obtaining the protoxide of palladium , and enters into the analysis of the hydrated oxide , the black suboxide , and the true basic carbonate of that metal ; detailing their properties and the formulas which express their mode of composition .
The chlorides of palladium form the next subject of inquiry ; and the author concludes from his experiments that the loss of chlorine which the protochloride undergoes , when kept for some time in a state of fusion at a red heat , is perfectly definite ; and also that the loss represents one half of the chlorine which the salt contains .
But in the double salts formed by the protochloride of pal ?
ladium with the chlorides of the alkaline metals , he finds that the similarity of constitution usually occurring between the compounds of ammonium and potassium is violated .
From his analysis of the oxychloride of palladium the author concludes that it is quite ana ?
logous to the ordinary oxychloride of copper .
He then examines a variety of products derived from the action of a solution of caustic potash on solutions of ammonia-chlorides of potassium .
Their properties he finds to indicate analogies between palladium and other metals , whose laws of combination are better known .
The sulphate , the ammonia-sulphates , the nitrates , and the ammonia-nitrates of palladium , and lastly , the double oxalate of palladium and ammonium , are , in like manner , subjected to examination in a detailed series of experiments .
The second section of the paper relates to the compounds of pla ?
tinum , and comprehends researches on the composition of the protochloride of platinum ; on the action of ammonia on biniodide of pla ?
tinum ; and on the action of ammonia on the perchloride of plati ?
num ; in which the properties of these substances are detailed and the formulae expressing their composition deduced .

