218 Mr. S. H. Vines on the [ Dec. 19 j Even those who are content to work at the development of the low i lier types , such as the worm and the cray-fish , are helping at thi good work , for they are throwing light upon the evolution of th Vertebrates .
VII .
" On the Chemical Composition of Alenrone Grains .
" Bj Sydney H. Vines , B.A. , B.Sc. , F.L.S. , Fellow and Lecturer of Christ 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr , Michael Foster , Prselector of Physiology in Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received October 22 , 1878 .
I. The Aleurone Grains of the Bine Lupin .
( varius .
' ) The proteids stored up in the seeds of certain plants , more especially of Leguminosse , have been stated by various observers to exist in the form of the vegetable caseins such as Legumin and Conglutin , and this view has been advocated of late years more particularly by Ritthausen ( " Die Eiweiss-Korper der Getreidearten , \amp ; c. , 1872 " ) .
In 1877 , Weyl published some observations ( " Zeitschr .
fur Physiol. Chemie , Bd .
I ) , which tend to show that the proteids exist in the seeds of these plants in the form of globulins , and that the caseins , i extracted by Ritthausen and others , are the products of the alteration of the globulins effected by the reagents ( alkaline solutions ) used in their extraction .
In order to be in a position to form a decided opinion upon the subject , I first repeated Weyl 's experiments , using the seeds of the blue lupin .
I found that on treating the ground seeds with 10 per cent. NaCI solution , I obtained a fluid which gave all the reactions charac- \#187 ; teristic of fluids which hold globulins in solution .
On dilution with water it gave a precipitate of a substance soluble in 10 per cent. NaCI solution ( vitellin ) ; and on saturating it with NaCI ( rock-salt ) , a substance ( myosin ) was precipitated which was soluble in 10 per cent. NaCI solution .
With the view of ascertaining the value of Weyl 's suggestion , that the casein ( conglutin , Ritthausen ) contained in the lupin was a product of the alteration of the globulin under the action of an alkaline solution , I made the following experiment : \#151 ; About 50 grms. of \gt ; the ground lupin-seeds were placed on a filter , and 250 cub. centims , 0T per cent. NaHO solution poured over them .
The fluid ran through in a few minutes , and was found to give the reactions characteristic of alkaline solutions of vegetable casein ( see " Sachsse , Chemie und Physiologie der Farbstoffe , " \amp ; c. , 1877 , p. 267 ) .
The residue on the filter was then well washed with distilled water until the washings ceased to give an alkaline reaction .
It was then treated with 250 cub. centims. 10 per cent. NaCl solution , and on testing the filtrate it was 1878 .
] Chemical Composition of Aleurone Grains .
219 :ound to hold much globulin in solution .
The residue on the filter yas then placed in a beaker with 500 cub. centims. of the 0'1 per cent. SaHO solution , and allowed to stand for twenty-four hours .
At the and of that time the alkaline fluid was poured off , and the residue placed on a filter and well washed with distilled water .
On treating it with 10 per cent. NaCl solution it was impossible to extract from it more than the merest traces of globulin .
It appears , therefore , that the globulin had become altered by the action of the alkaline fluid , that it had in fact become dissolved in it in the form of alkali-albumin .
This change probably occurs in the extraction of conglutin by Ritthaosen 's method .
Moreover , I found that conglutin prepared according to Ritt-hausen 's methods gives reactions which are characteristic of the substances formed when various animal proteids are treated with dilute acid or alkaline solutions ( acid-albumin , alkali-albumin ) , and it does not differ very widely from these substances in elementary composition .
These facts support the view that conglutin is merely a product of the alteration of the true reserve-proteids .
Weyl had already shown that no proteids , except such as are soluble in 10 per cent. NaCl solution , can be extracted from the seeds by treating them with 1 per cent. Na^CC^ solution .
This proves that conglutin does not preexist in the seed .
I therefore agree with Weyl in concluding that the proteids stored up in the seeds of the blue lupin consist of globulins ( vegetable vitellin and vegetable myosin ) .
Subsequent observations , however , assured me that this is not the only form in which the reserve-proteids are present .
I found that the 10 per cent. NaCl extract of the seeds contained , in addition to the globulins , a proteid in solution , which was not precipitated by boiling , or by saturation with rock-salt , or by dilution with distilled water .
This substance may be isolated by extracting the ground seeds with distilled water ; boiling the extract several timeS^o remove all traces of globulin ; evaporating to small bulk over a water-bath , and allowing the fluid to filter into absolute alcohol .
As it drops into the alcohol a dense precipitate is formed .
The substance which is thus precipitated is readily soluble in distilled water even after being exposed for months to the action of alcohol .
Its solution in distilled water does not become turbid on boiling ; it gives a precipitate on the addition of a drop of HN03 , which is soluble in excess of acid ; it gives the xanthoproteic and .
Millon 's reactions ; it gives fin immediate precipitate with acetic acid and potassic ferrocyanide ; and it gives a bright pink colour when treated with excess of strong NaHO solution on the addition of a drop of dilute CuS04 solution .
The substance does not dialyse .
These properties and reactions indicate that the substance is allied to the peptones .
It most nearly resembles the a peptone of Meisoner , or , 220 On the Chemical Composition Grains .
[ Dec. 19 , adopting Kfihne 's nomenclature ( " Verhandl d. Nat.-Med .
Yereins zt Heidelberg , " Band 1,1876 ) , the substance to which be gives thenanu 3 of Hemialbumose ; a name which may be provisionally applied to this substance also .
The proteids stored up in the seeds of the blue lupin are therefore i of two kinds : ( 1 .
) Hemialbumose\#151 ; soluble in distilled water .
( 2 .
) Globulins\#151 ; insoluble in distilled water , but soluble in 10 per cent. NaCl solution .
In order to determine the exact distribution of these substances in the cells of the seed , I made a series of micro-chemical observations .
Thin sections of the cotyledons were placed for a few minutes in ether and then in absolute alcohol , in order to remove the fatty matters present which would otherwise interfere with the observation .
A section examined in a drop of absolute alcohol shows the cells filled with aleurone grains lying in the meshes of a delicate matrix .
They are hyaline or faintly granular , and have a yellowish tint .
On adding a few drops of distilled water the grains become coarsely granular ; i ; the granules gradually disappear , and then vacuoles make their appearance .
Further treatment with water produces no apparent change .
If now a few drops of 10 per cent. NaCl solution be added , the hyaline vacuolated grains at once disappear , and nothing remains in the cells ( when the section is very delicate ) but the network of the matrix .
A precipitate may be produced in the fluid under the cover-slip by * diluting it with distilled water .
The precipitate assumes the form of rounded drops of a viscous nature which are readily redissolved on the 1 addition of NaCl ( vegetable vitellin ) .
If the section be irrigated with 10 per cent. NaCl solution until the addition of distilled water produces no precipitate , and if it be then well washed with distilled water nothing remains within the cells but the matrix .
This is rendered conspicuous by adding a drop of solution of iodine which gives I it a bright yellow colour .
It is well known that aleurone grains consist essentially of proteids , but the nature of these proteids has not as yet been determined .
From the foregoing observations it appears that at least one proteid is pre- 3 sent which is soluble in water , and one which is insoluble in water but soluble in 10 per cent. NaCl solution .
The preceding chemical experiments suffice to prove that the former is hemialbumose , and that the latter includes the two forms of vegetable globulin .
My observations on the solubility of the aleurone grains of the blue lupin in water agree in the main with those of Pfeifer ( " Unters .
fiber Protein-Komer , Ac .
Jahrb .
f. Wiss .
Bot. , " Band VIII , 1872 , p. 447 ) , but I have been unable to discover that , as he asserts in the case of Pseonia and Cynoglossum at least , long continued exposure to alcohol diminishes their solubility in water .
Such treatment affects neither 878 .
] Phyto-PalceontologicalInvestigations .
221 he solubility of the hemialbumose in water , nor that of the globulins a 10 per cent. NaCl solution , but it renders the protoplasmic matrix f the cells quite insoluble in dilute alkaline solutions .
These facts vere established by experiments with grains which had been in alcohol or three months .
I have detected the presence of hemialbumose in the seeds of vetches ind of the hemp and flax plants , and I propose to study the mode of its occurrence in .
the seeds of these and other plants , as I have already ione in the case of the blue lupin , and further , to determine what is its exact significance in the process of germination .
VIII .
" Report on Phyto-Palseontological Investigations generally and on those relating to the Eocene Flora of Great Britain in particular .
" By Dr. Constantin Baron Ettingshausen , Professor in the University of Graz , Austria .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received December 12 , 1878 .
When , about thirty years ago , I began to direct my attention to the study of the fossil Flora , the knowledge of fossil forms of plants was confined almost exclusively to forms of the Palaeozoic formations .
Of the Tertiary Flora there existed at that time a very imperfect conception ; but few beds of Tertiary plants were known , and these had been only superficially examined .
Leaf-skeletons had not been examined , and consequently the characteristic marks upon them were not available for the purpose of instituting a comparison with the fossil leaves .
The fossils themselves were only obtained from stones which had been exposed to the air , and were easily split asunder , and it was thus impossible to arrive at any accurate knowledge of the nature of the old world plants .
In fact , parts of one and the same plant were often regarded as plants of different genera* Thus on making a closer and more careful investigation into the Coal Flora of Bohemia , I was able to show that the Asterojohyllites are the branches , and the the fruits of the Calamites .
It appeared to me , therefore , necessary that I should devote myself to the study of the so-much-neglected Flora of the Cainozoic formations .
With this object in view , I determined:\#151 ; Firstly , to collect fossil plants as completely as possible , in order that my investigation should produce results on which I might entirely rely .
Secondly , to improve the method of investigation , especially with regard to the working out of the skeletons of the leaves of living plants , so as in that way to acquire sure standpoints from which to determine the species of the fossil leaves .
Thirdly , not to confine the scope of the inquiry within the limits of

