]\gt ; PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
March 3 , 1892 .
Mr. JOHN EVANS , D.C.L. , .D .
, Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Oandidates for election into the Society were announced , as follows:\mdash ; Armstrong , Robert Young , Lieut. Col. Beddard , Frank Evers , M.A. Beevor , Charles Edward , M.D. Blake , Rev. John Frederick , M.A. Boulenger , George Albert .
Brennand , William .
Buzzard ; Thomas , M.D. Callendar , Hugh Longbourne .
Davis , James William , F.G.S. Dibdin , W. J. , F.C.S. Dreschfeld , Professor Julius , M.D. , Henry Eales , F.L.S. Dunstan , Professor Wyndham R. Eaton , Rev. Alfred Edwin , M.A. Ellis , William , F.R.A.S. Etheridge , Robert , F.G.S. Ewart , Professor J. Cossar , M.D. Fleming , Professor John Ambrose , M.A. Foster , Professor Clement Le Never , D. Sc. Gadow , Hans , M.A. Giffen , Robert , LL. D. Gotch , Fraucis , M.R.C.S. Harker , Alfred , M.A. Hendley , Thomas Holbein , Surgeon Major .
Herdman , Professor William Abbott , D. Sc. Hill , Professor M. J. M. , M.A. Hind , George Jennings , Ph. D. Howortb , Henry Hoyle .
Hutton , Frederick Wollaston , Capt. R.E. Joly , John , M.A. Jones , John iriamu , M.A. Kidston , Robert , F.G.S. King , George .
Larmor , Joseph , D.Sc .
Love , Augustus Edwal.d Hough , M.A. McConnell , James Frederick Parry , Surgeon-Major , F.R.C.P. MacMunn , Charles , M.D. Ma , rtin , John Biddulph , M.A. Prof. W. F. R. Weldon .
Certain Matthey , Edward , F.C.S. Smith , Rev. Frederick John , M.A. Miall , Professor Louis .
C. Stebbing , Rev. Thomas Roscoe Newton , Edwin ] , F.G.S. Rede , Notter , James Lane , Surgeon- Stevenson , Thomas , M.D. Lieut.-Col. Stirling , ]]idward C. , M.D. Oliver , JohnRyder , Major-General Tuke , Daniel Hack , M.D. Peach , Benjamin Never , F.G.S. Roberts , Ralph A. , M.A. Prof.essor ASankey , ESherrington , Scott , rich .
Professor George .
Augustus DWorthington , Professor AthurYoung , Professor Sydney , Rutley , Frank , F.G. S. Saunders , Howard , F.Z. S. Seebohm , Henry , L. S. The Right Hon. Spencer Compton Cavendish , Duke of Devonshire , a Member of Her Majesty 's Most Honourable Privy Oouncil , whose certificate had been suspended as required by the tutes , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The following Papers were read : I. " " Certain Correlated yariations in Crangon vulgaris By W. F. R. WELDON , , F.R.S. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge , Professor of Zoology in University College , London .
Received February 11 , 1892 .
The first successful attempt to find a constant relation between the variations in size exhibited by one organ of an animal body and those occurring in other organs was made some three years ago by Mr. Galton ; and in a paper read before the Royal Society ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 45 , p. 135 ) he determined this relation between several organs of the human body .
In what ollows an attempt is made to apply Mr. 's method to the measurement of the correlation between four organs of the common .
Before tho details of the measurement are discussed , a short summary of the method will be given .
Galton 's starting point was the fact that each organ of a given race of men varies about its mean size to an extent and a frequency indicated by the probability equation .
If two variable organs are known to vary in this way , and if they are so 1892 .
] Correlated Variations in Crangon vulgaris .
3 connected that when the deviation of one variable from its average is known the mean deviation of the second is known , then , evidently , surface can , from these data , be constructed , showing the relative frequency of occurrence of all possible combinations between the two variables .
The changes produced in such a surface by changes the degree of interdependence of the two variables have been investigated , at Mr. Galton 's request , by Mr. J. D. H. Dickson ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 40 , 1886 , p. 63 ) .
The results of this investigation , which are of importance for the present purpose , are two:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) In the population examined , let all those individuals be chosen in which a certain organ , , differs from its average size by a fixed amount , ; then , in these individuals , let the deviations of a second organ , , from its average be measured .
The various individuals will exhibit deviations of equal to , . . . .
, whose mean may be called .
The ratio will be constant for all values of In the same way , suppose those individuals are chosen in which the organ has a constant deviation , X ; then , in these individuals , , the mean deviation of the organ , will have the same ratio to X , whatever may be the value of X. 2 .
) The ratios and are connected by an interesting relation .
Let represent the probable error of distribution of the organ A about its average , and that of the organ ; then\mdash ; ; or , a constant .
So that by taking fixed deviation of either organ , expressed in terms of its probable error , and by expressing the mean associated deviation of the second organ in terms of its probable error , a ratio be determined , whose value becomes when a change in either organ involves an equal change in the other , and when the organs are quite independent .
This constant , therefore , measures the " " degree of ] ation \ldquo ; between the two organs .
A determination of this constant will now be made in the case of five pairs of organs of the shrimp .
In accordance with Mr. Galton 's notation , the constant will be denoted by , the mean size of each organ by , and the probable error of distribution about the mean by Q. The organs measured are shown in the woodcut fig. 1 ; they are :\mdash ; ( 1 .
) The total carapace length , measured in a straight line ; ( 2 .
) The le1lgth of that portion of the carapace which lies behind the singIe gastric spine ; The length of the sixth abdominaI tergum ; ( 4 .
) The length of the telson .
The measurements made were recorded to within mm. , and Prof. W. .
R. Weldon .
ertuin [ Mar. 3 , aro expressed in terms of the body length , taken as 1,000 .
As the average length of the shrimps used was rather ovsr 50 mm. , the measurements , in the form in which they are recorded , are urate only to the nearest unit .
The roughness of the edges of the parts measured , and the fact that the animals were preserved in spirit , made any attempt to attain greater accuracy exceedingly difficnlt .
The variations in the length of the four organs here discussed have already been shown to occur with a frequency which agrees very closely with that indicated by the law of probability ( cf. ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 47 , p. 445 ) .
The cIoseness with which the distribution of deviations in the samples used agrsed with that indicated by a probability curve may be gathered from the diagrams , figs. 2 and 3 , which are fairly typical of the whole series .
l.\mdash ; Total Length of Carapace and Length of Post-spinous Portion .
The relation between these two parts has been determined in five races of shrimps ; of these the sample containing the greatest number of individuals was obtained at the laboratory of the Marine Biological Association at Plymouth .
The mean length of the carapace , in 1000 adult female imps from Plymouth , was thousandths of the body leogth ; the probable error of distribution about this average was .
These numbers will be denoted in what follows by and respectively .
The msan length of the post-spinous portion ( Mps ) was , its probable error being These numbers having been determined , the individuals were sorted into groups , such that the recorded length of the carapace , was the same in each group .
The mean lengbh of the post-spinous portion , , was then determined in each group .
The results are entered in the first two columns of Table I. Each pair of entries in the table gives a datum for determining the mean deviation of which is associated with a given value of .
If each value obtained in this way be divided by the probable error of the organ to which it belongs , a series of pairs of values will be obtained , from each of which Correlated ariations in Crangon vulgaris .
FIGS .
2 and \mdash ; Curves of all observed magnitudes of post-spinons lengths ( fig. 2 ) and total carapace lengths ( fig. 3 ) in 1000 adult female shrimps from Plymouth .
The dotted curve is a Curve of the calculated probable error : the continuous curve shows the results of observation .
The horizontal scale represents thousandths of the body : the scale represents tens of individuals .
the value of can be separately determined .
This process has been performed for each of the values entered in the first two columns of Table I , and the results are recorded in the third and fonrth columns .
In Table II , the results of a similar process are shown , but the individuals have been sorted into groups in each of which the length of the post-spinous portion of the carapace is constant , and the mean value of the total carapace length has been determined in each group .
AB before , the immediate results of these determinations are entered in the first two columns , and the deviation of each entry in these columns from its corresponding average , divided by its " " probable error is given in the third and fourth columns .
Prof. W. F. R. Weldon .
Certain [ Mar. 3 , Table I.\mdash ; bIean Value of Post-spinous Carapace Length ( ps .
) for every observed Value of Total Carapace Length ( c ) in Plymouth .
( 1000 individuaIs .
) The mean value of , as determined from these two ables , is ; that is to say , if all those individuals be chosen in which the deviation of one of the two organs from its average length is times the probable error of that organ , the mean deviation from the average size of the other organ in the individuals chosen will be times its probable error .
If the variations in size oCCUl'red in each of these two organs with a frequency equal to that indicated by a probability curve , then every pair of entries in each table should give the same value of .
As the conformity between the observed frequency and that indicated by probability is only approximate , the individual determinations give values which differ slightly from one another ; but these variations are on the whole small , as may be shown in three ways .
In fig. 4 , all the deberminations of are the deviation of the organ whose value is fixed in each case is measured parallel to the axis of , the mean deviations of the associated organ parallel to the axis of : so that each pair of values in Tables I and II determines 1892 .
] Corretated Variations Crangon the position of one point in fig. 4 .
Those points whose position is determined from Table I , taking the carapace length as fixed , are ed by crosses : those obtained from Table II , taking the postspinous portion as fixed , are showu by dots surl'ounded by circles The straight line drawn across the diagram indicates the ratio ; and every point , determined from either table , should therefore lie upon it .
It will be seen that the points do , in fact , lie fairly closely round the line , though few lie actually upon it .
The accuracy of the assigned value of may be tested in another way .
When the value of is known , it is evidently possible to calculate , from a known deviation of one organ , the mean associated deviation of the other ; and in the fifth columns of Tables I and II the mean length of each dependent organ which should be associated with every observed value of the independent organ has been calculated on the assumption that .
The length calculated in this way is found to agree very fairly well with the observed length , which is recorded iu the second column of each table .
The difference between the observed and calculated length of each dependent organ is shown in the sixth column .
A third way of checking the value of is given by the ratio of the probable error of distribution of one organ to that of the other .
If Prof. W. F. Weldon .
Certain [ Mar. 3 , FIG. , then a deviation of carapace length equaI to mm. is associated with a mean deviation of the post-spinous portion equal to mm. ; and from the values of and given above , the ratio is equal to .
In the same way a deviation of mm. in the post-spinous portion of the carapace is associated with a mean deviation of the whole carapace equal to mm. ; the ratio being equal to From the fundamental formula given above on p. 8 , 1892 .
] Correlated Variations in Crangon vulgaris .
Now ; and So that the assigned value of fulfils all the required conditions very fairly well .
Having found a relation between the deviation of carapace lengths and that of post-spinous lengths , which is constant all magnitudes of either organ in one local race , the question at once arises whether this relation is not a specific character of the shrimp , which is constant in all local races .
At the beginning of the inquiry Mr. Galton suggested to me that the relation between the two organs indicated by the value of was of snch a kind that might be expected to have the same value in all races of the same species , and in some cases in groups of species .
A determination of the relation between carapace length and post-spinous length , and of other relations which are to be discussed below , has abundantly confirmed .
Galton 's prediction .
In order to test the constancy of the relation between them , the variations in total length of carapace , and in length of the post-spinolJs portion , were measured in samples of adult female shrimps from Helder ( Holland ) , from Southport , from Sheerness , and from Roscoff ( Finistere)\mdash ; that is , from four places fairly distant from Plymouth , and diflering from Plymouth and from each other in climatic conditions , in salinity and other characters of the sea water , .
and in nature of the sea bottom .
* Each of these races was found to difler from the others in the average length of the organs measured , and in the probable error of distribution of each organ about its average ; but the relation between the two organs , as measured by the value of , was very fairly constant throughout .
The details of each determination of are given in Tables III\mdash ; X , at the end of the paper ; they are constructed on precisely the same plau as that used for Tables I and II , and need not therefore be further explained .
The values of deduced from all the tables are\mdash ; In Plymouth . . . . .
( 1000 individuals examined ) .
In Southport . . . . . .
In Roscoff. . . . . . . .
In Sheerness. . . . . .
In Helder . . . . . . .
( 300 , , .
, ) .
The approach to identity between these values is very striking .
The diiferences between them are certainly large ; bnt they are as it seems to me , larger than the probable error of each determination .
The number of individuals employed , even in the races from Plymouth * I am glad to express my gratitude to Dr. P. P. C. Hoek , to Professor Delag6 , and to Messrs. W. Garstang and W. H. Shrubsole , for their kindness in procuring for me thee samples .
Prof. W. F. R. Weldon .
Certain [ Mar. 3 , and Southport , is too small to ] of a satisfactory determination of the second decimal place .
The reader , who cares to do so , may satisfy himself of this by taking or as values of in the Plymouth tables , when he will find the agreement between calculated and observed values of the associated organ to be only slightly less close than in the existing table .
lt may , therefore , be fairly said that the values of obtainsd by examining five races of shrimps are not inconsistent with the existence of a constant value in all the races examined\mdash ; a value lying somewhere between and So that if the deviation of toffil carapace length from its average be expressed in terms of its probable error , and if the deviation of the post-spinotls portion be in the same way expressed in terms of its probable error , then , when either organ diflers from its average by any constant amount , the mean deviation of the other will be a constant fraction of that amount , the fraction being between and A similar approximation to constancy has been found to exist in the relation between three other pairs of organs , determined in the samples from Plymouth and from Southport .
These orga , are so largely independent that the probable error of the determination is much greater than before ; and accordingly the irregularities in the results are much greater than in the previous case .
The mean values of are as follows:\mdash ; These values are found from the tables at the end of the paper , from which it will be evident that the determination is much less riliable than that first discussed .
So far , we have.only investigated the mean deviation of each organ is associated with a known constant deviation of another organ .
But since a fixed deviation of one organ does not as a ] involve a fixed dsviation of the second , it becomes necessary to inquire how the values of this second organ are distributed about their mean .
Mr. Galton points out that the deviations of each dependent organ are distributed about their mean with a probable error of .
So that in Plymouth , for example , those post-spinous carapace lengths which are associated with any fixed total carapace length should be dis- tributed about their mean , with a error of ' or , or nearly .
In the same way , the values of total 1892 .
Correlated Variations in Crangon vulgaris .
11 carapace length which aro associated with a fixed length of the postspinous portion should be distributed about their mean lvith a probable error of , or near 4.55 or nearly .
Therefore , when the Plymouth shrimps were sorted into groups , such as those used in Table I , such that the carapace length was constant in each , then the post-spinous lengths in group should have been distributed about the mean given in the table with a probable error of .
The largest lar of these groups contained only about eighty individuals , so that any accurate determination of this point was out of the question ; but a rough estimate of the probable error was made in eacb group which contained than forty individuals , and the mean value obtained in this way was , which is perhaps sufficiently neal to 203 .
similar treatment of the groups in Table II gave as the probable error of distribution ; and this , again , is not very different from The other samples show a similar rough agreement between the probable error of the dependent organ in each group and that indicated by the value ; but the numbers employed are too small to make a determination of this point worth serious discusslon .
It cannot be pretended that the results here given are either sufficiently numerous or sufficiently accurate to serve as a basis for generalisation ; but at the same time they seem certainly to suggest a very importaut conclusion .
For if the values of have really the degree of constancy which has been attributed to them , then by expressing the deviation of every organ examined from iffi average in of the probable error of that organ , the deviation of any one of these organs from its average can be shown to have a definite ratio to the associated deviation of each of the others , which is constant for all the races examined .
And since both the ol.gans measured and the samples of shrimps examined were chosen , in the first instance , by chance , any result which holds for all these organs through all these races may be reasonably expected to prove generally true of all organs hrough the whole species .
That is , the results recorded lead to the hope that , by expressing the deviation of every organ from its average in Mr. Galton 's system of units , a series of constants may be determined any species of animal which will give a numerical measure of the average condition of any number of organs which is associated with a known condition of any one of them .
A large series of such specific constants would give an altogether new kind of knowledge of the physiological connexion between the various organs of animals ; while a study of those relations which remain constant through large groups of species would give an idea , attainable at present in no other way , of the functional correlations between various organs which have led to the establishment of the great sub-divisions of the animal kingdom .
Prof. W. F. R. Weldon .
Certain [ Mar. 3 , Table III.\mdash ; Length of Post-spinous Portion ( ps ) for every observed Value of Total Carapace Length ( c ) in Southport .
( 800 indi- viduals .
) Table \mdash ; Value of Total Carapace Length for every observed Length of Post-spinous Portion of Southport .
( 800 iudividuals .
) 1892 .
] Correlated Variations in Crangon vulgaris .
Table Mean Length of Post-spinous Portio for every observed Value of Total Carapace Length in Roscolf .
( 500 individuals ) .
nder 2 Table \mdash ; Mean Value of Total Carapace Length for every observed Value of Post-spinous Porbion .
( Roscoff : 500 individuaIs .
) Table \mdash ; Mean Post-spinous Length for every observed Value of Total Carapace Length .
( Sheerness : 380 individuals .
) Table VIII.\mdash ; Mean Carapace Length for observed Value of the Post-spinous Porbion .
( Sheerness : 380 individuals .
) Table IX.\mdash ; Mean Length of Post-spinous Portion for every observed Value of Total Carapace Length .
( Helder : 300 individuals .
) bserve .
Table X.\mdash ; Mean Value of Total Carapace Length for every , .
observed Length of Post-spinous Portion .
( Helder : 300 individuals .
Prof. W. F. R Weldon .
Certain [ Mar. 3 , Table XI.\mdash ; Mean of Sixth Abdominal Tergum for each Value of Total Carapace Length .
( Plymouth : 1000 individuals .
) Table \mdash ; Value of Total Carapace Length for observed Lengths of Sixth Abdominal .
( Plymouth : 1000 dividuals .
) 1892 .
] Correlated Variations in Crangon vulgaris .
Table XIIf.\mdash ; Mean Length of Sixth Abdominal Tergum for observed Values of Total Carapace Length .
( Southport : 800 individuals .
) ength observed , Table \mdash ; Meau Value of Total Carapace Length for observed of Sixth Abdominal Tergum .
( Southport : 800 indi .
LI .
Prof. W. F. R. Weldon .
Certain [ Mar. 3 , Table \mdash ; Mean Lengbh of Telson for observed Values of Total Carapace Length .
( Plymouth : 1000 individuals .
Table \mdash ; Value of Total Carapace Length for observed Length of Telson .
( Plymouth : 1000 individuals .
) Mean aobserved , 1892 .
] Correlated Variations in Crangon vnlgaris .
Table XVIL\mdash ; Mean Length of Telson for observed Values of Total Carapace Length .
( So thport : individuals .
) Table XVIII .
Mean Value of Total Carapace Length for Lengths of Telson .
( Southport : 800 individuals .
) Prof. W. F. R. Weldon .
Cerlain [ Mar. 3 , Table XIX.\mdash ; Mean Length of Sixth Abdominal Tergum for observed Lengths of Telson .
( Plymouth : 1000 individuals .
) Table .\mdash ; Mean Length of TeIson for observed Lengths of ixth Abdominal Tergum .
( Plymouth : 1000 individuals .
) Mean a 1892 .
] Correlated Variations in Crangon vulgaris .
Table XXI.\mdash ; Mean Length of Sixth Abdominal Tergum for observed Lengths of Telson .
( Southport : 800 individuals .
) Table XXII.\mdash ; Mean Length of Telson for observed Lengths of Sixth Abdominal Tergum .
( Southport : 800 individ )

