]\gt ; The two circuits are connected inductively by the two straight conduetors AB , DE , the coefficient of induction , , between which is very small , so , though currents are set up which are apparent in the sensitive cymometer , their reaction on the primary system is probably entirely negligible .
The currents in the primary discharging circuit are therefore still given by the equation the solution of which is given by , and the equation for is that given in the preceding article .
If we put , we see that if and be the two values of .
The current in the cymometer circuit is given by being the inductance , resistance , and capacity in this circuit ; and substituting for I If we substitute for .
its value , the denominator becomes which may be , where The for is ; its amplitude , therefore , will be a maximum when is least .
In dealing with this expression , we must remember that and are approximately proportional to each other , each being nerly proportional respectively inside measurement ) and cm .
Its capacity in electro static units was therefore , with air as dielectric .
outer sphere had two taps inserted at the top and bottom , and the lower tap was connected with a copper spiral , through which the liquid examined allowed to flow , the whole system , piral and condenser , being immersed in a large vessel containing water at a known temperature .
When pure water , twice distilled , was run through the condenser , the cymometer reading gave a value for of , the temperature in the outer contaimng vessel being C. , being kept constant by filling it with a mixture of snow and water .
This was compared with the cymometer reading for an air-leyden formed of nine plates of glass coated on both sides with tin foil overan area 20- cm .
by 25 cm .
, and separated by small pieces of glass each cm .
thick .
The capacity of this condenser in electrostatic units is therefore cm .
The cymometer reading for this condenser was The value for , the dielectric capacity of water at ia thus given by , By varying the temperature of the surrounding water the values of may be got those temperatures .
The following table is a record of some results thus obtained : Dielectric Capacity , , of Water .

