On the Mechanism of the Cardiac Valves a Preliminary Communication .
By A. F. Stanley Kent , M.A.Oxon .
, Henry Overton Wills Professor of Physiology in the University of Bristol .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received February 15 , 1915 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory of the University of Bristol .
) [ Plate 16 .
] The account commonly accepted of the manner in which the auriculo-ventricular valves of the mammalian heart are operated relies chiefly upon the action of eddies and currents .
As the result of recent work it appears possible that a muscular mechanism may be involved also .
Such a mechanism is referred to in the following communication .
It consists of a prolongation dowmwards of the muscular fibres of the auricular wall in such a manner as to produce a sheet of longitudinally coursing fibres which enter the base of the valve flaps and run a variable distance in their auricular portions.* The general arrangement may best be gathered from the accompanying photographs .
These , which have been taken from sections of the hearts of different animals , show that muscular fibres , originating in the auricular wall , sweep down to the valve flaps , which they enter , and become inserted into the connective tissue at some distance from the base .
The passage of this muscle from auricle to valve is uninterrupted , and the tissue found in the valve is similar histologically to that found in the auricle .
Moreover , the muscle is present in considerable amount , and may even form the greater part of the thickness of the valve .
It is particularly to be noted that the muscular tissue described as running into the valve arises from and is continuous with the muscular wall of the auricle .
A reference to the figures will show that in fig. 1 , which is taken from a section of the heart of a three weeks old rat , the muscular fibres of the auricle pass without structural change down to the auriculo:ventricular junction , where they come into close relation with the ventricular tissues .
In the neighbourhood of the mass of connective tissue from which the valve springs the muscle fibres become arranged parallel to the axis of the valve * I would point out that the muscle described in this paper should not be confused with the interesting sphincter of unstriped muscle , the existence of which at the A-Y orifice is mentioned by1 Prof. Gustav Mann in the last edition of Quain 's ' Anatomy .
' Prof. A. F. S. Kent .
flap , and then 'run uninterruptedly forward , forming the upper portion of the valve for a distance of about one-half of the total length shown in the section .
For two-thirds of this distance the thickness of the muscular tissue is considerable .
At its lower extremity the muscle is thinned out and appears to be inserted into the connective tissue forming the upper layer of the flap .
Between the muscle and the underlying fibrous tissue of the valve is a well-marked layer of very loose connective tissue , the presence of which would produce the effect of an insertion of the muscle at a considerable distance from the base of the flap .
In fig. 2 , Plate 16 , taken from the heart of an adult cat , the auricular muscle is seen to reach the auriculo-ventricular junction , and then to pass on as a continuous sheet into the valve , reaching in the figure almost to the extremity of the thicker basal part of the flap .
The muscle fibres are thick and robust even at some distance from the base of the valve .
In fig. 3 , taken from the heart of a child , the auricular muscle , in the neighbourhood of the auriculo-ventricular junction , is seen to be arranged as a series of bundles cut across in the specimen , and as some smaller masses running towards the point of attachment of the base of the valve .
The muscular fibres enter the valve and run parallel with the axis of the flap .
They pass down for about a quarter of the length of the flap shown in the specimen , lying in the upper portions of its thickness , and finally ending in relation with the tissues of its upper lamella .
In fig. 4 , taken from the heart of an adult man , the auricular muscle is seen to approach the auriculo-ventricular junction as two sheets , the inner having a somewhat circular course , the outer having a direction more nearly parallel with the axis of the valve segment .
The muscle fibres come to an end in a mass of connective tissue forming the upper part of the segment , the actual point of insertion being at some distance from the point of attachment of the valve .
Thus in all the four photographs reproduced the same essential points of structure are shown .
The auricular muscle passes in considerable mass into the basal portion of the auriculo-ventricular valve , it takes up a position in the auricular part of the segments , and it finally ends by becoming inserted into the fibrous connective tissue of the valve substance .
As might have been anticipated both mitral and tricuspid valves show the structure described .
Muscle in the situation described may well have an important function in connection with the closure of the auriculo-ventricular valves .
In accounting for the closure of these valves , authors have commonly relied upon the floating On the Mechanism of the Cardiac Valves .
up of the segments through the action of eddies , and that eddies can actually bring about an approximation of the valve flaps is indicated by an experiment of Baumgarten , * quoted by Sherrington .
The quotation is as follows:\#151 ; " If the arterial openings of the excised heart be blocked , and through the auricles a momentary rush of water under about twelve inches pressure bo allowed to play into the auriculo-ventricular orifices , the valve flaps rise into the orifice , and come together sufficiently firmly to allow of the inversion of the heart without the escape of a drop of its contents .
" Thus eddies or currents may undoubtedly bring about the preliminary approximation of the valve flaps under certain circumstances .
The course of events in the normal heart is probably somewhat as follows:\#151 ; Immediately before the moment at which the valve i\amp ; timed to close , its flaps are being acted upon by certain forces tending in different directions .
One of these forces is the stream of blood driven from the auricle , which presses the flaps outwards .
Another is the eddy behind them , between them and the ventricular wall , which presses them inwards .
To this latter must now be added the effect of the muscular slips described as existing in the bases of the valves , which tend to raise the flaps away from the ventricular wall , and towards the position of closure .
The actual position of the flaps at any given moment will be determined by the combined effect of these forces .
As the stream of blood driven from the auricle weakens towards the close of auricular systole , the retrovalvular eddy , though possibly also somewhat weakened on account of the lessened stream of blood , will have less to antagonise it .
It will therefore become relatively more effective .
With regard to the muscular action , the contraction of the auricle will have commenced to die away in the upper parts .
It will still be present in full force in the lower parts of the auricular wall , and also in the slips of muscle entering the valves .
That is to say , the muscular contraction will die away and be replaced by a condition of relaxation latest in this situation .
As a result , the flaps will continue to be drawn up by the muscular slips quite to the end of auricular systole , and this will not only have a direct effect in closing the valve at exactly the appropriate instant , but will also ensure free play to the retrovalvular eddy up to the time when the valve closure begins to be finally accomplished .
At the end of auricular systole , therefore , the forces tending to keep the flaps apart will have become weakened , the forces tending to approximate * Baumgarten , 'Archiv f. Anat .
und Physiol. , ' 1843 , p. 464 .
Quoted in Clifford Allbutt 's 'System of Medicine , ' vol. 6 ( 1909 ) .
By C. S. Sherrington , Rovised by James Mackenzie .
On the Mechanism of the Cardiac Valves .
them will still be active .
The result is that closure finally occurs , and is rendered absolute by the rapidly increasing pressure of blood in the ventricle which now commences to contract .
The function of the muscular slips now described may perhaps be regarded as a double one , ( a ) to keep the flaps away from the heart walls , and thus to ensure the provision of an adequate space between the flap and the ventricular wall for the full development of the retrovalvular eddy , and ( b ) to afford by its contraction actual mechanical assistance to the raising of the flaps into the position of final closure .
It is obvious that the anatomical arrangement is admirably adapted to the carrying out of these functions .
Placed at the base of the auricle and deriving its stimulus thence , the muscle in the valves will contract , and will relax , last of all the auricular tissue , and thus ensure , not only that the mechanical assistance referred to under ( ) shall become available at the proper moment , but also that the work of the eddy shall be assisted up to the very moment of final closure of the valve .
There are other points of interest connected with the presence of muscular tissue in the segments of the auriculo-ventrieular valves which it is not proposed to deal with in the present communication .
I wish to record my indebtedness to Mr. R. B. Britton for permission to make use of the specimen from which fig. 1 was prepared .
The above research has been assisted by grants from the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society , from the Research Fund of the University Colston Society , and from the British Association for the Advancement of Science .
DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Heart 141204 ( Britton ) .
Rat , 3 weeks old .
Slide 53 , Section 3 .
x 29 .
Tricuspid Valve .
The auricular muscle is seen to sweep uninterruptedly into the basal part of the valve flap , of which it forms the upper portion ; it is inserted into the connective tissue substance at the junction of the basal and middle thirds of the flap as seen in the figure .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Heart 130614 .
Slide 252 .
Section 2 .
Cat , adult .
Tricuspid Valve , x 29 .
The auricular muscle passes without change into the valve , of the thickness of which it forms a considerable part .
The muscle fibres are situated towards the auricular surface of the flap , lying beneath the endocardium .
A contraction of this muscle would lead to a powerful raising of the valve segment .
Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
Effect of Functional Activity upon etc. 541 Fig. 3.\#151 ; Heart 130522 A. Child , 3 days .
Slide 293 .
Tricuspid Valve , x 29 .
The auricular muscle passes into the base of the valve , of which it forms about one-half the thickness .
It passes for some distance along beneath the auricular endocardium , and is finally inserted into the connective tissue of the valve .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Heart 120214 C. Man , adult .
Series G , Slide 132 .
Mitral Valve , x 7*5 .
In this specimen the auricular muscle runs a short distance only into the base of the valve .
Its contraction would , however , be quite efficient in raising the flap , owing to the relative positions of the muscle and the point of attachment of the base of the valve .
In all the figures M indicates muscle , CT indicates connective tissue .
The Effect of Functional Activity upon the , Blood-fow , and Exudation in Organs .
By J. Barcroft , F.R.S. , and Toyojiro Kato .
( Received February 18 , 1915 .
) i. Striated Muscle .
The animals used were dogs .
A.C.E. mixture used at first ; urethane throughout .
Two preparations have been used : ( )the gastrocnemius preparation as described by Verzar*1 ) , ( b)the anterior belly of the diagastric .
In each of four experiments the veins were dissected out which lead from the organ to some adjacent vein of considerable size\#151 ; the femoral or the jugular .
All the other confluents to this vein were tied off , and a pipette inserted through one of these into the great vein .
This was clamped proximally , and the blood from the muscle , and it only , was thus secured .
By measuring its rate of flow , and by comparing it with arterial blood in respect ( 1 ) of its oxygen content , and ( 2 ) its haemoglobin value ( 2\gt ; , data were obtained of ( a ) the oxygen used by the muscle ( 3\gt ; , ( b ) the rate of flow , and ( c ) the exudation ( 4\gt ; of fluid from the blood vessels .
In two experiments the nerve was cut , in two it was not .
The following data were furnished by an experiment on the gastrocnemius , in which this nerve was cut two hours before its stimulation .
It was stimulated by a faradic current , of a duration of about 0'2 second , every second for 15 minutes .

