]\gt ; 1888 .
] Evolution of Gases from Homogeneous Liquids .
239 forming greys by rotation were measured , and the results tabulated in percentages of the spectrum of white light and on a wave-length scale .
III .
" " The Conditions of the Evolution of Gases from Homogeneous \ldquo ; By V. H. ] , University College , Oxford .
Communicated by A. VERNON HARCOURT , M.A. , F. .
S. Received May 5 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is collveniently divided into three parts .
In part ( i ) an account is given of effect of finely divided particles the of evolution of gases resulting from ; in the phenomenon of initial acceleration , as also the efl'ect of riation of presSUl.e on the olution of gases , is discnssed ; in part ( iii ) the case of the decomposition of formic acid lllt0 carbonic oxide and water is investigated under constant conditions , other than those of the mass of reacting substances of temperature .
Part I.\mdash ; It found that the addition of finely divided chemically inert particles increases tho rate of evolution of ases from liquids in which they are being formed .
The effect of theRe ) articles on the changes is ated : ( i ) the decomposition of formic acid lding carbonic oxide ; ( ii ) the decomposition of nitrite in aqueous solution ; ( iii ) the reduction of acid into llitric oxide by means of sulphate ; ( iv ) the nposition of ammonium in of fusiotl producing oxide ; and ( v ) the decoml ) osition of potassium chlorate in a state of producing oxygen .
finely -ided substances used arc pumice , silica , grnphite , barium sulphate glass-dus Part II.\mdash ; lt is observed that , oonditions of temperature ining the same , the of evolntion of a gas from a liquid is at first slow , then gradualIy ulltil it reaches a ximum and for some time onstant 1 .
From point the rate decreases proportionaily to the utio of mass .
This is observed in the cases the deco1n.positioxl of formic acid , potassium fcrrocyanide , and of oxalic by concentrated huri acid , and of ammoniunl nitrate .
It has previously ) observed in the case of decomposition of ammonitlm .
in aquer ) solution .
The same phcnomenon repeats the temperature is temporarily lowered and then raised to its .
point , and also to a more marked when , temperature remaining the same , the superincumbent pressure is suddenly increased .
The reduction of pressure from one to a fraction of an atmosphere in which is ths time from the commencement of the observations ; is the interval of from the moment of commencement , and that at which , conditions remaining the same , the interval of time required for unit change would have been nil ; is the mass at the end of each observation , and is a constant .
The resuIts calculated by this hypothesis agree with those observed , whether the interval of time required for unit change is 30 or 960 minutes .
The curve expressing the rate of chemical change in terms of mass is thus hyperbolic and illustrative of the law which expresses the rate at which equivalent masses act upon another : in each experiment is the amount of each unit mass which reacts with the other per unit of time , when an unit mass of each substance is present .
Since then equivalent masses take part in the change , it is reasonable to suppose that at first an anhydride of formic acid is produced thus : HCOH }HCOHCO } The anhydride is unstable , and is subsequently decomposed into carbonic oxide and water , HCO HCO The change may thus .
be compared to the production of ethyl formate from formic acid and alcohol , HCOH

