1902 .
] The Colour-physiology of Higher Crustacea .
" The Colour-physiology of Higher Crustacea .
" By Frederick Keeble , M.A. , Beading College , Beading , and F. W. Gamble , D.Sc .
, Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Professor S. J. Hickson , F.B.S. Beceived July 16,1902 .
( Abstract .
) The following statement is a condensed summary of the results of a research into the form and physiology of the pigment-bearing organs ( chromatophores ) of certain Schizopod and Decapod Crustacea with especial reference to the effect of light on these organs and on these animals .
The evidence for the statement will appear in a full and illustrated form in the " Philosophical Transactions .
" The Grant Committee of the Boyal Society allotted \lt ; \#163 ; 25 for this research .
A. The Influence of Light .
1 .
Under the influence of light the secretory activity of certain organs is modified : an acid substance appears periodically in the " liver " and muscle : the appearance and disappearance of acid substance in liver and muscle coincides broadly with nocturnal and diurnal colour-change .
2 .
In the progressive movements and orientations of the whole animal called forth by light , background is the most important factor : more powerful than change of light-intensity .
By change of background , black to white , the direction of a light-induQed movement may be reversed .
3 .
The response of the chromatophore-pigments to light is two-fold : direct ; and indirect , through the mediation of the eye .
The indirect response alone leads to an enduring redistribution of pigment .
4 .
The ultimate effect of monochromatic light on pigment-movement is the same as that of white light .
As with the latter , so with monochromatic light , background\#151 ; white ( scattering ) , black ( absorbing ) , mirror ( reflecting)\#151 ; determines the nature and extent of the pigment-movements .
In describing an effect of light , that light must be considered in combination with its background .
Neglect to do this must lead to erroneous conclusions .
5 .
" Beaction to background " is traceable to the eye , and is probably a consequence of an asymetrical distribution of retinal pigment brought about not by changes in the amount of light falling on the eye , so much as by changes in the way in which light falls on the eye .
B. The B61e of 6 .
The phenomena presented by the pigments are not exhaustively explained by any " protective " hypothesis .
VOL. LXXI .
G 70 The Colour-physiology of Higher Crustacea .
[ July 10 , The chromatophores are centres of metabolic activity , and from them a nocturnal translocation of a blue substance takes place .
There is evidence that this blue substance is produced from , and at the expense of , the diurnal chromatophore-pigments .
The blue substance passes from the chromatophore-centres , persists for a time in the body , and ultimately disappears .
C. Morphology .
7 .
The chromatophoi'e-system of Mysidean Schizopods is built upon a common plan , of which the various genera and species present severally a constant modification .
This system we call the primary chromatoph ore-system .
To it the colour-pattern is due .
8 .
Decapod Crustacea possesses a primary and a secondary system of chromatophores .
The primary system appears in the embryo , is completed in the " Mysis-stage , " and persists throughout life , but takes no part in colour-pattern .
The secondary system arises in an early stage of development , increases in extent throughout life , and produces the colour-patterns of the adolescent and adult .
9 .
The chromatophores of the primary system are profusely branched , few in numbers , segmentally arranged and centralised ; those of the secondary system are sparsely branched , numerous , irregularly arranged and decentralised .
D. Histology .
10 .
The chromatophores of Mysidse are multicellular organs .
Those of the neural group are developed from the epidermis .
Losing their connection with the epidermis they acquire a close relation with the central nervous system .
The distribution of the primary chromatophore-system follows that of the ganglionic parts of the nervous system .
11 .
The chromatophores of Decapods are plurinuclear connected structures : their distribution is not confined to the ganglionic parts of the nervous system .
E. Taxonomy .
12 .
The primary systems afford assistance in the determination of genera and species .
By their aid , animals in early , as well as in late , stages of development may be diagnosed .
F. Inheritance .
13 .
The several adult colour-patterns of Palmnon and are constant , and develop directly .
The evidence tends to prove that both secondary and primary chromatophore-systems are inherited .
1002.1 Observations on " Flicker " in Binocular Vision .
7t 14 .
The adult colour-pattern of Hippolyte is constant , but develops indirectly .
The adolescent possesses a special colour-pattern developed in large measure in relation with the primary system of the zoea .
Both persist though concealed by the independently developed adult pattern .
15 .
In Hippolyte varians , several adult colour-patterns occur .
They develop indirectly .
The primary system is the same in all .
In the adolescent , three distinct colour-patterns arise " barred , " " liner , " and " monochrome .
" These may persist , becoming barred , liner , or monochrome adults .
Or either " barred " or " liner " may , by developing superficial or deep chromatophores , become a monochrome .
Or , by localised superficial developments either " barred " or " liner " may give rise to a " blotched " adult colour-form , under which the adolescent pattern is hidden .
The primary system is inherited : the adolescent colour-patterns are possibly inherited ; but inheritance is immaterial since the final goal is reached by any adolescent road ; that is , the adult colour-pattern of Hippolyte varians , is the result of environment .
u Observations on f Flicker ' in Binocular Vision .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.B.S. ( Thompson-Yates Laboratory of Physiology , University College , Liverpool ) .
Received July 30 , 1902 .
The connection between the physiological state and reactions of the two retinae right and left is close in many respects ; this is true particularly and peculiarly for their areas that are conjugate in binocular vision , that is , which receive corresponding images of objects perceived in the binocular field .
The observations at basis of the following communication attempt to obtain further information regarding the nature of the the between these retinal so-called " identical spots .
" A practical aim was to measure by the " flicker " method of photometry any difference of physiological luminosity existent between binocular and uniocular vision of a given illuminated object .
An object intermittently illuminated gives , if the frequency of intermission be sufficient , a perfectly steady sensation .
The successive retino-cerebral reactions fuse into a continuous one as judged of by sensation .
If the rapidity of intermission be less than the requisite , the sensation oscillates through lighter and darker phases .
The transition from the oscillating to the steady sensation and vice versa is sufficiently abrupt to form a transition point capable of fairly definite

