The Croonian Lecture on Muscular Motion .
By Anthony Carlisle , Esq. F.R.S. Read November 8 , 1804 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 1 .
] Admitting that there are subjects in the economy of nature which will ever elude our most attentive observation , and that many institutions similar to our Croonian Lecture will probably never attain the end for which they were founded , it cannot , however , be denied that several of them , and ours in particular , have at different times brought forward various collateral , and some of them not unimportant facts , which have in some measure contributed to extend our knowledge of nature .
This latter is the point of view in which the present communication is to be considered ; concerning which the author says , that , waving the investigation of the general theory of muscular motion , he shall limit his present inquiry to certain circumstances which are connected with this motion , considered as causes , or rather as a series of events , all of which contribute more or less as essential requisites to the phenomena .
The changes which obtain in muscles during their contractions or relaxations , and their corresponding connexions with the vascular , respiratory , and nervous systems , are , he declares , the chief objects of his present investigation .
The lecture is divided into six sections , of which the following are the heads , together with some of the most prominent facts contained under each of them ; the nature of the performance , which consists chiefly of insulated facts , and our limits in point of time , precluding us from being so minute in our analysis as the importance of the subject may be thought to require .
Sect. 1 .
Of the physical and sensible properties of muscles , considered as distinct parts of an animal , and as peculiar organs .
In describing the fasciculated texture of the fibres which compose a muscle , and the elasticity of these fibres during the contracted state of the muscle , the author advances an opinion , that this elasticity appears to belong to the enveloping reticular or cellular membrane , and that it may be safely assumed that the intrinsic matter of muscle is not elastic .
The attraction of cohesion in the parts of muscle appears to be strongest in the direction of the fibres , and to be double that of the contrary or transverse direction .
When muscles cease to be irritable , this attraction in the direction of the fibres is diminished ; but it remains unaltered in the transverse direction .
When muscles act more powerfully or more rapidly than is proportionate to the strength of the sustaining parts , they do not usually rupture their fleshy fibres , but generally break their tendons , or even an intervening bone ; whence it is inferred , that the attraction of cohesion is more active and powerful in the contracted state of the muscle than during its relaxed or passive state .
The muscular parts of different classes of animals vary materially in colour and texture ; and such variations occur not unfrequently in different parts of the same individual .
Sect. 2 .
Of the anatomical structure of muscles , and their relations with other parts of the animal body.-The lecturer in this section professes to give no more than a rapid sketch of the history of muscular structure .
One example of the origin of a muscle he deduces from the process of the incubated egg : but here it remains doubtful whether the rudiments of the punctum saliens be part of the cicatricula organized by the parent , or merely a structure resulting from the first process of incubation .
The anatomical structure of muscular fibres , he next observes , is generally complex , according as they are connected with membrane , blood-vessels , nerves , and lymphoeducts ; which seem to be only appendages of convenience to the essential matter of muscle .
A muscular fibre , being carefully inspected in a powerful microscope , is found to be a solid cylinder , the covering of which , as had already been intimated in a previous part of the lecture , is a reticular membrane , and the contained part a pulpy substance , irregularly granulated , and of scarce any cohesive power when dead .
The arteries articulate copiously upon the reticular coat of the muscular fibre ; they anastomose with corresponding veins ; but this continued canal is not supposed to act in a direct manner upon the matter of muscle .
In what manner the capillary arteries terminating in the muscular fibre may effect all the changes of increase in the bulk or number of fibres , in the replenishment of exhausted materials , and in the repair of injuries , is as yet matter of conjecture ; but these arteries , it is thought , must be secretory vessels for depositing the muscular matter , the lymphaeducts serving to remove the superfluous fluids and the decayed substances which are unfit for use .
These lymphaeducts appear to receive the fluids they contain , not , as has been represented , from the projecting open ends of tubes , but from the interstitial spaces formed by the reticular or cellular membrane .
The functions of nerves in the muscular system are the next object of contemplation .
These also , it seems , terminate in the reticular or cellular membrane , the common integument , and the connecting medium of all the dissimilar parts of an animal .
We have to regret that we cannot dwell longer on this curious part of the lecture , especially where it treats of the combination , by means of nerves between animated and what may be deemed inanimate matter , as in the instances of bones , shells , teeth , and other extravascular and insensible substances , which , when completed , are no longer alterable by the animal functions .
Sect. 3 .
Of the connexions between the functions of muscles and the temperature and respiration of the animal.-That different parts of an animal are susceptible of different degrees of temperature , is a fact which stands in no need of demonstration ; and it is equally obvious that every animal , besides being susceptible of the external changes of temperature , possesses also the power of generating heat within itself .
This last-mentioned power is ascribed , in a great measure , to respiration ; and this opens a field of inquiry , in what manner and to what degree the different classes of animals are possessed of that faculty .
In this disquisition we find , among other interesting facts , a curious account in what manner hybernating animals are enabled to subsist several months without respiration .
The irritability of the heart , we are next told , is inseparably connected with respiration , and the blood appears to be the medium of conveying heat to the different parts of the body ; and hence it is naturally inferred , that the changes of animal temperature in the same individual are always connected with , and proportionate to , the velocity of the circulation .
After death , the blood of an animal is presently coagulated , and the muscles are usually contracted ; but , from some observations here stated , it appears that the final contraction of muscles is not inseparable from coagulation of the blood within them , nor of a change in the reticular membrane .
Lastly , it is asserted , that the reiterated influx of blood is not essential to muscular irritability ; since the limbs of animals , separated from the body , continue for a long time afterwards capable of contractions and relaxations .
Sect. 4 .
Of the application of chemistry to this subject.-Our lecturer asserts , under this head , that the constituent elements of both animal and vegetable substances are not separable by any chemical process hitherto instituted , in such a manner as to admit of a synthetical re-combination : and he maintains , that , until such a recombination can be effected , all chemical discussions and investigations on the matter of muscles are not likely to afford any conclusive illustration .
Sect. 5 .
Facts and experiments tending to support and illustrate the preceding arguments.-We meet here with a number of observations on the heat of the blood and viscera of animals of different classes ; also on the effects of crimping fish , which produces not only a sensible rigidity or contraction , but also an increase of specific gravity , in the muscles .
Muscular fibres of quadrupeds , being immersed in water of a low temperature , gave also manifest proofs of contractions occasioned thereby .
In the heat of 1000 , the muscles of cold-blooded animals , and at 1100 those of the warm-blooded , fall into the con , tractions of death .
The latter always contain more red particles in their substance than those of cold blood , and are sooner deprived of their irritability , even though their relative temperature be preserved .
It appears , also , that respiration in the former tribe is more essential to life than in the latter .
Various experiments are next mentioned on the substances which accelerate the cessation of irritability in muscles when applied to their naked fibrils , such as all narcotic vegetables , poisons , niuriate of soda , the bile of animals , &amp;c. Discharges of electricity , passed through muscles , destroy their irritability , but leave them apparently inflated with small bubbles of gas , owing , perhaps , to some combination which decomposes water .
Workmen who are exposed to the contact of white lead , nitric acid , or quicksilver , frequently experience local spasms or partial palsy .
Lastly , some arguments are adduced which prove that a smaller quantity of blood flows through a muscle in the state of contraction than during its quiescent state ; that when muscles are vigorously contracted , their sensibility to pain is nearly destroyed ; and that the human muscles are susceptible of considerable changes , from extraordinary impressions on the mind , such as grief , fear , uncommon attention , mental derangement , &amp;c. ; in all which cases uncommon muscular exertions have been observed , which could not have been affected without the operation of those stimulants .
Sect. 6.-This section contains some conclusive remarks , chiefly on the effects of stimuli on the muscles , as they are distinguished into voluntary , involuntary , and mixed .
For the classification of these agents here stated , we must refer the curious physiologist to the paper itself ; having already , perhaps , trespassed too far upon the time that can well be spared for the abstract of this lecture .

