1871 .
] Mr. G. Gore on the Solvent Power of Liquid Cyanogen .
67 The extinct Phascolomys Mitchelli , indicated by remains brought to England in 1835 by Sir Thomas Mitchell , C.B. , the discoverer of the bone-caves of Wellington Valley , Australia , is determined by specimens subsequently obtained by Prof. Alex .
M. Thomson and Gerard Krefft , Esq. , from the same caves .
A second species , distinguished by characters of the nasal bones , is called , after its discoverer , Phascolomys Krefftii .
Modifications of the lacrymal , maxillary , and palatal bones in the existing kinds of Wombat are also applied to the determination of the fossils : specimens from the freshwater deposits of Queensland are thus shown to belong to the species , Phascolomys Mitchelli , originally founded on fossils from the breccia-caves of New South Wales .
The author next proceeds to point out the characters of the mandible in existing Wombats available in the determination of extinct species of Phascolomys .
On this basis he defines specimens which he provisionally refers to his Phascolomys Krefftii .
He then points out the mandibular characters of Phascolomys Mitchelli , and shows that the existing Phascolomys latifrons was represented by mandibular fossils from the breccia-caves of Wellington Valley .
Proceeding next to the description of fossil mandibular remains of the genus Phascolomys , from the freshwater deposits of Queensland , the author defines Phascolomys Thomsoni , Phase , and Phase , parvus .
The latter , seemingly extinct , species is markedly inferior in size to any of the known existing species .
An account of the extinct kinds of Wombat , exceeding in size the existing species , will be the subject of a succeeding communication .
The present is illustrated by subjects occupying seven plates and eight woodcuts , all the figures being from nature and of the natural size .
II .
" On the Solvent Power of Liquid Cyanogen .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received September 1 , 1871 .
In the following experiments a number of stout tubes of refractory glass of the annexed shape were employed .
C d ) * FULL SIZED SECTION OF GLASSrTUBE .
Each tube was closed at one end , and had a flanged mouth at the other .
The limb A was l-^ inch long , the limb B 2 inches , and C 7 inches .
In making the experiments , each tube was first filled , to an extent of 5^ inches of its length , with highly dried crystals of mercuric cyanide ; a small fragment of asbestus* was then pushed tightly against the end of the cyanide by means of a thin rod of gutta percha , and the bend of the tube cleaned by means of a slender brush .
A number of taper plugs of gutta * This may be dispensed with if the mercuric cyanide is perfectly dry .
68 Mr. G. Gore on the Solvent Power of Liquid Cyanogen .
[ Dec , Tt percha were previously made by softening , the end of a rod of that sub .
stance in boiling water and then chilling it ; and loops of thin copper wire were also prepared for the purpose of securing the plugs .
Having placed in the bend of the tube the substance to be operated on , a plug was wetted with chloroform and at once firmly inserted in the mouth of the tube and secured by means of the wire .
A wet rag was wrapped round the limb B , and the portion of the limb C containing the cyanide was inserted in a loosely fitting tube of copper foil within a tube of wrought iron about two feet long , supported in a nearly horizontal position , with the end D the lowest .
A vessel having been previously arranged to drop cold water continually upon the wet rag , a glass screen was placed by the side of the exposed part of the glass tube , and heat was gradually applied , by means of a row of Bunsen 's burners , to the part of the iron tube containing the limb C. In about four minutes liquid cyanogen began to form , and in about five minutes longer about two inches in length of the bend was filled with that liquid , and the heat was then discontinued .
The temperature of the iron tube was below that of visible redness ; if the heat applied was not too great the glass tube retained its original form , and might afterwards be easily removed from its casing and set aside for -future examination .
A white fog , and signs of a heavy vapour in the bend of the tube , always immediately preceded the formation of the liquid .
In many instances some of the cyanogen retained the liquid state for several days , and even weeks , especially if the bend of the tube was kept cool by means of a wet sponge .
The cyanide employed in the experiments should be crushed to a coarse powder , and highly heated a long time , with constant stirring , until it is of a slightly brown colour ; otherwise , immediately previous to the appearance of the liquid cyanogen , a small quantity of a brownish treacley liquid distils over and affects the results .
More than 130 substances , including solids and liquids , and a great variety of simple and compound bodies , were subjected to the action of the liquid ; the substances were , in nearly all cases , as free from moisture as it was possible to obtain them .
The following are the results obtained :\#151 ; Substances soluble in liquid Cyanogen at 60 ' Fahr.\#151 ; Camphor dissolved rapidly and copiously .
Hydrate of chloral quickly and freely .
Solid G2 Cl6 was freely soluble .
Iodine was moderately soluble , and formed a deep red liquid .
Picric acid moderately soluble ; the solution was yellow .
] White phosphorus dissolved very slowly , and to but a small extent* , i Gum benzoin , also white cane-sugar , dissolved slowly and sparingly .
Gum i assafbetida and gamboge dissolved slightly , and formed yellowish liquids , j Bisulphide of carbon , C2 Cl2 and C2 Cl4 , mixed perfectly with the liquid ; CC14 mixed less perfectly .
Water was only slightly absorbed .
* See also Gmelin 's Handbook , rol .
viii .
p. 147 , article " Cyanide of Phosphorus .
" 1 1871.1 Mr. G. Gore on the Solvent Power of Liquid Cyanogen .
69 Substances insoluble in liquid Cyanogen at 60 ' \#151 ; Water ( nearly insoluble , would not mix with the liquid* , and produced no chemical change ) .
Iodic acid .
Fine lampblack .
Well-burned wood-charcoal ( two kinds ) .
Crystals of boron .
Boracic acid .
Crystals of silicon .
Precipitated silica .
Titanic acid .
A fragment of sulphur .
Selenium .
Selenious acid .
Tellurium .
Arsenic .
Arsenious and arsenic acids .
Realgar .
Orpi-ment .
Antimony .
Antimonic oxide .
Antimonic acid .
Fused fluoride of antimony .
Red sesquisulphide of antimony .
Bismuth .
Fluoride of bismuth .
The oxides of iridium and silver .
Argentic nitrate , fluoride , chloride , iodide , and iodate .
Mercury .
Mercuric chloride .
Copper .
Cuprous iodide .
Chloride of Nickel .
Iron .
Mundic .
Peroxide of manganese .
Fluoride of manganese .
Chromic oxide .
Violet chloride of chromium .
Oxide and fluoride of uranium .
Red oxide and peroxide of lead .
Plumbic chromate .
Tin .
Cadmium .
Sulphide of cadmium .
Zinc .
Tungstic and niobic acids .
Oxide of cerium .
Carbonate of glucinum .
Aluminium .
Magnesium .
Magnesia .
Dry lime .
Anhydrous carbonate of Sodium .
Potassic nitrate , bromide , iodate , and fluozirconate .
Bichromate and bitartrate of rubidium .
Bitartrate of csesium .
Chloride and carbonate of ammonium .
Oxalate of cerium .
Paracyanogen .
Cyanide of mercury .
Nitrocyanide of titanium .
Pyrogallic , gallic , tannic , and succinic acids .
Sulphate of quinine .
Alloxan .
Starch .
Milk-sugar .
Egg-albumen .
Gun-cotton .
The gums ammoniac , animi , copal , dammar , elemi , galbanum , guaiacum , juniper , kowrie , mastic , mvrhha , oliba-num , opoponax , sagapenum , seed-lac , shellac , thus , and tragacanth .
Yellow resin .
Egyptian asphalte .
Gutta percha .
India-rubber .
Paraffin .
Anthracene .
Stearine .
Bee's-wax .
Spermaceti .
Aloes\#151 ; Barbadoes , Cape , hepatic , and Socotrine .
Brazil-wood .
Red sandal-wood .
Cuba yellow fustic .
Terra-japonica .
The following substances produced some changes , but did not dissolve : \#151 ; Perfectly white and dry iodic acid made the liquid of a pink colour .
Dry selenious acid and iodate of potassium became slightly pink .
Yellow chloride of nickel ( nearly anhydrous ) became at once green 1* .
Cuprous iodide acquired the colour of vermilion .
Sesquicarbonate of ammonium became brown .
The gums myrrha and guaiacum coloured the liquid yellowish .
Bisulphide of carbon , saturated with sulphur , rapidly set free its sulphur in the form of crystals , the bisulphide being absorbed and dissolved by the cyanogen .
A saturated solution of phosphorus in bisulphide of carbon quickly liberated its phosphorus in a similar manner , but not in a crystalline form .
The contact of moisture and an alkaline substance with the liquified gas caused the formation of a brown solid body , apparently paracyanogen .
From these results it is evident that liquid cyanogen , at 60 ' Fahr. , is a remarkably inert body , and possesses very little solvent power for sub* See Gmelin 's Handbook of Chemistry , yol .
vi .
p. 388 .
t Probably in consequence of the presence of a trace of moisture .
70 Mr. 6 .
Gore on Fluoride of Silver .
[ Dec. 7f stances in general ; out of 132 substances only 14 were dissolved , and not a single one exhibited signs of strong chemical action .
III .
" On Fluoride of Silver.\#151 ; Part By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received October 6 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author has finally shown that the action of iodine , under the influence of heat ( including the process described by Kammerer , Phil. Mag. 1863 , vol. xxv .
p. 213 , for the isolation of fluorine ) , does not liberate uncombined fluorine , but produces fluoride of iodine and iodide of silver , a double salt , composed of iodide of silver and fluoride of platinum , being produced at the same time by corrosion of the platinum vessels , if the temperature approaches a red heat .
The fluoride of iodine produced is a highly volatile and colourless liquid , does not corrode mercury or red-hot platinum , corrodes glass at 60 ' Fahr. , and crystals of silicon at a red heat , also platinum in contact with argentic fluoride in a state of fusion ; it instantly turns a deal splint black , fumes powerfully in the air , and is decomposed with violence by water into hydrofluoric and iodic acids , in accordance with the following equation:\#151 ; IF5-f-3H20=5HF+HI03 .
It dissolves iodine , and is absorbed by that substance ; it is also absorbed either by argentic fluoride or iodide when those substances are cooled in its vapour , and may be expelled from them at a red heat .
Its vapour quickly darkens the colour of a deal splint , and very gradually turns paraffin brown .
The platinum vessels in which the reaction with iodine was effected were considerably corroded ( but less so than when bromine or chlorine were employed ) , and many expensive vessels were rendered useless by this cause during the experiments .
No chemical change occurred on heating argentic fluoride to redness with pure carbon .
By heating this fluoride to redness in a current of dried coal-gas , it was wholly reduced to metallic silver , hydrofluoric acid and tetrafluoride of carbon being evolved .
In liquid cyanogen , argentic fluoride neither dissolved nor suffered chemical change ; but at a low red heat , in a current of dry cyanogen gas , it was entirely reduced to metal , either nitrogen and tetrafluoride of carbon , or fluoride of cyanogen being liberated .
An aqueous solution of silver fluoride was precipitated by passing a prolonged current of cyanogen gas through it .
Fluoride of silver was also decomposed by fusion with para-cyanogen .
Argentic fluoride was not dissolved or chemically changed by immersion in anhydrous liquified hydrocyanic acid ; but by passing the dry acid in vapour over the red-hqjt salt , the latter was decomposed and metallic

