440 Mr. A. Mallock .
parenchyma ; an endodermis and pericycle surround each steal , and in the case of the annular steles these layers occur both internally and externally .
At the nodes the outer annular steal bends up into the leaf-stalk , and a branch is also given off ' from the margin of a gap formed in the inner annular steal ; the axial vascular strand may or may not be in continuity with the meristele of the leaf .
The petiole is traversed by a single steal , similar in shape to that of certain Cyathe-aceous ferns ; towards the top of the leaf-stalk the steal alters its form , and gradually gives off separate ( J-shaped branches to supply the pinnae .
The most interesting feature in the structure of the pinnules is the marked papillose form of the lower epidermal cells .
The roots have a triarch steal enclosed by a few layers of thick brown sclerous cells .
In structure Matonia pectinata presents points of agreement with several families of ferns , on the whole approximating more closely to Cyatheaceas than to any other family ; but the peculiarities are such as to fully confirm the conclusion previously drawn from external characters that Matonia should be placed in a separate division of the Filices .
After comparing the structure of the Malayan species with that of other fern genera , the paper concludes with an attempt to give an account of the geological history of the Matoninese .
The genera Laccopteris and Matonidiumare dealt with at some length , and reference is made to other Mesozoic ferns , which may probably be included in the same group .
The data furnished by an examination of palaeontological evidence lead to the conclusion that in Matonia we have a survival of a family of ferns , now confined to a few localities in Borneo and the Malay peninsula , and represented by two living species , which in the Mesozoic epoch had a wide geographical range , being especially abundant in the European area .
" Note on a new Form of light Plane Mirrors .
" By A. Mallock .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.B.S. Received February 28 , \#151 ; Read March 9 , 1899 .
Having recently , in the course of some experiments on air waves , had 'occasion to make use of some very thin films as coverings for the openings of resonators , it occurred to me that such films , if stretched over rings with edges ground to a true plane , might be used as plane mirrors , and the following note records the results of the trials made with this object in view .
The best films were obtained by letting a few drops of a solution of pyroxyline in amyl acetate spread on the surface of water and lifting Note on a nctv Form of light Plane Mirrors .
441 the film , left after the evaporation of the solvent , on a ring previously placed beneath the surface .
Good films can also be obtained in this way from copal varnish , but they are more difficult to handle , and the intrinsic strength of the material is not nearly as great as that of pyroxyline .
In order to lift the films off the surface of the water without folds , and without getting any of the parts doubled , it is desirable that the ring used for the purpose should be not less than half an inch deep , a length of half an inch cut off a tube of the required diameter , or a strip half an inch wide bent into a circle and the ends joined .
If the depth is less than this the overlapping part of the film is liable to be carried round the lower edge by the capillary action of the water , and to spread itself irregularly on the under surface of the stretched part while being lifted .
The ring should be rested on a wire tripod with long turned-in feet so that the pyroxiline solution may spread well beyond its edges before encountering the tripod legs ; and , in order that the film while being lifted may not be broken by the drag of the water enclosed by it and the ring , air should be introduced inside the latter through a pipette during the process .
A little practice makes it quite easy to secure uniform films with certainty in this way .
After removal from the water the film should be allowed to drain , for some minutes until the surface is free from drops , and it may then be stretched over the worked ring whose edge is to form the boundary of the mirror .
In order to do this the worked ring is placed on a circular support some inches in height and a little larger in diameter than the ring itself .
The film , which at this stage of drying is tough and extensible , is then laid in position over it , and the lifting ring forced downwards until the film tears away .
It will be then found that the film is left well stretched over the worked ring and adherent to its edge and side .
The lifting rings should be about half an inch larger in diameter than the worked rings .
If the fdm is not much more than a twenty-thousandth of an inch in thickness its surface is glassy and reflects light well , but if much thicker than this it tends to show a crape-like or finely grained structure , and its quality as a reflector is not so good .
I found at first great difficulty in silvering the films : in fact as the film comes from the water , it refuses altogether to receive the silver deposit , but if well washed under a very gentle stream of distilled water as soon as it is stretched on the mirror ring , and then thoroughly dried , a fair coating of silver may be obtained .
It seems essential that the amyl acetate should be completely evaporated , and this being accomplished , the other requisite is absolute surface cleanliness both of the film and the silvering bath .
442 Note on a new Zorin ot Plane Mirrors .
To ensure this requires considerable care .
The film after being washed should be dried as quickly as may be in a warm drying chamber , and it is advisable not even to touch the ring with the hand until its sides are quite dry .
The dish also in which the silvering solution is placed must be carefully washed just before use , first with nitric acid , then with water , and finally with distilled water ; but on no account should it be wiped or touched with the hand .
Before taking these precautions , I never succeeded in getting even a tolerable silver surface , though I tried many other devices which need not now be described .
Even the best results I have hitherto obtained are not quite satisfactory , so very ready are the films to lay hold of any kind of scum with which they may be brought in contact .
The best material for the mirror rings I found to be glass , which is much more easily ground to a true surface than most of the metals I tried , and suitable rings of very thin glass may be easily obtained by cutting up beakers or test-tubes with a glazier 's diamond in a lathe .
The edges may then be quickly ground to a plane on a flat lap with coarse emery or carborundum ( which I prefer ) , and finished with fine emery , though as the edges need not be polished it is not necessary to use nearly such fine emery as is required for ordinary optical surfaces .
The most important point in getting the edge of the ring to a true plane , is to use a very light pressure in grinding , and the thinner and weaker the ring the lighter the pressure required .
When the grinding is well done , the definition given by reflection from the stretched film is quite equal to that of a worked glass surface of the same area , at any rate up to 2 inches or 2|- inches diameter , and up to this diameter also it makes no preceptible difference to a reflected pencil of rays whether the plane of the mirror is vertical or horizontal , showing that the weight of the film has no appreciable effect in determining its form .
The weight of these mirrors is practically the weight of their supporting rings , and with reasonable care a 2-inch ring may be made weighing considerably less than 10 grains , and although it will probably be impossible to rival with them the brilliancy of silvered glass , there are I should think many cases where good definition , and extreme lightness are requisite ( as for instance in the suspended mirrors of photographic recording instruments ) in which such mirrors as these might be useful .

