On an ebbing and flowing Stream discovered by boring in the Harbour of Bridlington .
By John Storer , M.D. Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read January 19 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 54 .
] In the year 1811 , with a view to making certain improvements in the port of Bridlington , an examination was made of the depth of a stratum of clay , and another of gravel , at some distance below highwater mark .
At low water the harbour is dry , and at high water it has from fifteen to seventeen feet of water in the deepest part .
The spot fixed upon for boring , has about six feet of water in ordinary tides .
After boring through 28 feet of clay , and subsequently through a mixed stratum of chalk and gravel , the augur was found to strike against a solid rock , on which that instrument could make no impression , and the work was discontinued , without any appearance of water at that time rising in the bore .
But in the course of an hour or two it was observed to be filled to the top with very limpid fresh water , which , after a short time , was projected some inches above the summit , in a stream equal to its calibre .
As the water was found to be fit for washing , and all culinary purposes , the bore was first secured by an elm stock ten feet long , and perforated with a threeinch augur , through which was passed a copper tube of the same diameter , well tinned to the depth of 32 feet , and which thus reached from the bottom of the elm stock to the solid rock , in order to preserve a supply of water for the use of the town .
The stream , however , is found not to be constant , but to cease regularly when the tide has fallen to a certain distance , and not to flow again till the tide returns to the same level , its force increasing regularly as the tide advances ; and it may be observed to be propelled with much force , even after the bore is overflowed by the tide .
By attention to the height of the tide at the time that the water begins to flow , it is found to be very regularly 49 or 50 inches below the level of the top of the bore , excepting after any very unusual fall of rain , when the water has been known to flow even when the tide has fallen as much as eight feet below the top of the bore .
'These appearances , says the author , seem not to admit of any satisfactory explanation , without supposing some subterraneous communication between the water of the sea and that of the spring ; and Mr. Milne , under whose direction the work has been conducted , conceives the stratum of clay , through which the water issues , to extend over the whole bay in front of the harbour , as far as to Smithwick Sand , which is known to be supported by a ledge of rock that has an almost perpendicular face , and very deep water beyond it .
It is through the fissures of this rock that the water is supposed to issue , till overpowered by the increasing column of tide , which , by its greater specific gravity , will occasion it to find vent at a level which will be more above the point at which the two fluids meet in proportion to the difference of their densities .
In confirmation of this hypothesis it is further observed , that after very stormy weather , when there is an unusual swell upon .
that coast , the water is discharged with an evident undulation .
Dr. Storer , however , observes , that the relative altitude to which the spring is elevated after much rain , rather militates against its correctness ; and he would expect the additional force of the column of spring water at such times to produce an opposite effect , by enabling it to overcome the same column of sea-water during a longer period in each tide .
As it seemed probable that the subject may be elucidated by an acquaintance with the peculiarities of the springs in the neighbourhood , the author remarks , that upon the Wolds behind Bridlington there is very little water during summer and autumn ; but in the course of two or three weeks after the commencement of frost , the springs begin to run copiously , and in some instances even with considerable impetuosity .

