On the Dip of the Magnetic Needle in London , in August , 1828 .
By Captain Edward Sabine , of the Royal Artillery , Sec. R.S. Read January 8 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 47 .
] This paper commences by noticing that the Philosophical Transactions contain the record of observations on the dip of the needle in London , from the early part of the last century to the present time .
That these observations all concur in showing a progressive decrease of the dip during the whole period in question , but that they are insufficient in number and frequency , and the earlier ones particularly , in the required accuracy to enable us to determine whether tho an- .
nual decrease has been uniform or otherwise .
The author having taken much pains to obtain a correct determination of the dip in the Regent 's Park , in August 1821 ( published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1822 ) , repeated his observations in August 1828 , at the expiration of seven years from the former determination ; an interval which he considered sufficient to throw light on the rate at which the dip is at present diminishing .
In consequence of the increase of buildings in the Regent 's Park , he was induced to change the place of observatiQo to the Horticultural So ciety 's garden , at Chiswick ; the distance apart is about five miles , but the direction is as nearly as possible that of the line of equal dip .
The apparatus , modes of observing , and needles employed , are fully described .
The needles were four in number ; one , of the ordinary construction ; a second , fitted with Professor Meyer 's apparatus for avoiding the errors arising from the non-coincidence of the centres of gravity and motion ; a third , having a cross of wires attached to the axis , on the well-known plan of Dr. Mitchell ; and a fourth , devised by Mr. Dollond , the middle of which is a cube perforated at right angles , so that the axis may be inserted in eight different ways .
In addition to his own apparatus and needles , the author obtained from the Colonial Department the use of a smaller apparatus , with a needle on Professor Meyer 's plan , the same which was used by Captain Franklin , on his last land expedition .
The observations with this apparatus were made by Mr. David Douglas , of the Horticultural Society .
The results were as follows : With the ordinary needle ... ... ... ... 690 46 ' 1 With Meyer 's needle ... ... ... ... ... .
69 47 -4 With a needle having an adjusted axis. .
69 38.3 With Mr. Dollond 's needle ... ... 69 51.7 With the smaller apparatus ... ... ... . .
69 51.4 Dip in London , in August , 1828 ... .
69 47 -0 From the observations of 1821 and 1828 , the author finds a decrease in the dip in London , of 17 ' 5 in seven years , or an annual decrease of 2 ' 5 .
The average annual decrease for the century preceding 1821 appears , from the most authentic observations , to have exceeded 3 ' .
On examining the series of observations made on the dip in Paris since 1798 , by MM .
Humboldt , Gay Lussac , and Arago , the author finds a corresponding indication of a recent diminution in the yearly decrease of the dip ; it appearing , by those observations , that the average yearly decrease , in the first half of the period between 1798 and 1828 , exceeded 4'`75 ; and in the second half fell short of 3 ' .
He concludes by remarking , that a repetition of the observations in London , at the expiration of another seven years , and a continuation of those at Paris , will probably afford a decisive indication on this point ; and notices , in case the annual change shall prove to be diminishing in this part of the world , the importance of determining the precise period at which the dip shall become stationary , and the minimumu to which it shall then have arrived .

