On the Effects of simple Pressure in producing that Species of Crystallization which forms two oppositely polarized Images , and exhibits the complementary Colours by polarized Light .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. Edin .
and F.S.A. Edin .
In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read Ja. .
nuary 19 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p.60 .
] The author having , in former experiments on the depolarization of light by a mixture of resin and bees ' wax , had reason to suppose that the effects were modified by pressure , now examines the effects of pressure on a class of substances which , from their elasticity , will restore themselves after removal of the force applied , and thence admit of greater variety in the repetition of the experiments .
By employing animal jellies , he had an opportunity of giving them any degree of tenacity that might be wished .
A small cylinder of jelly being placed upright between two plates of glass , had at first no power of depolarization .
By gradual drying at its circumference , it soon began to depolarize at that part ; and as it became thereby more dense than at its centre , it had the power of a concave lens .
At the end of three weeks it seemed dried to the centre , and had then lost both these properties ; but by forcible pressure , which it could now bear without injury , it depolarized completely during the continuance of the pressure ; but upon its removal , says Dr. Brewster , it resumed its uncrystallized state .
The author next employed isinglass jelly , brought nearly to the consistence of caoutchouc , which , after standing one day , had acquired the depolarizing power even when cut into thin slices ; and when forcibly compressed between two plates of glass , it also exhibited beautiful colours , that were complementary to each other in the two images of a candle seen through it , by means of a prism of Iceland spar ; and when the pressure was removed , these complementary tints disappeared .
Inasmuch as these colours might be supposed owing to the thinness to which the plate of jelly was reduced by pressure , Dr. Brewster cut the cake to the same thinness which it had possessed while under compression , but without any production of colours till pressure was again applied .
In the author 's concluding experiment , he formed one twentieth of an inch thick of the same jelly , by melting it between two plates of glass .
When merely consolidated by cooling , this had no power of depolarization ; but by pressure it instantly restored the evanescent image , and exhibited , as in the former cases , the complementary colours , showing , says the author , that pressure communicates a modification of structure correspondent to that of crystallized minerals .

