Numb.49 PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
July 19 .
1669 .
The Contents .
Observations concerning the Bath-Springs .
An Extract of a Letter , about the Jcy and Chrystallin Mountains of Helvetia .
Some Observations concerning Japan , its Scituation , Temperature , Productions , Customs &amp; c An Account from Paris concerning a great Metallin Burning Concave : and some of the most considerable Effects of it .
An Account of four Books I. MAR C. MALPIGHII Dissertatio Epistolica De BO MB YC E , Regiae Societati Anglicanae dicata .
II .
DE SC RIPTIONANATOMIQUE d'un CAMEL EO N , d'un CASTO R , d'un DROMEDAIR E , d'un OUR S , et d'une GAZELL E. III .
LABYRI NT HUSALGEBR AE , Auth. JO H. JA C. FE RG USO N. IV .
An ANSWER to HYDROL OG IACHYMICA of William Simpson by ROBERT WITTY D. M. Observations Concerning the Bath-Springs , communicated by Mr. Joseph Glanvill , in a Letter to the Publisher dated June 16 .
1669 : at the Bath .
Sir , I Have now made the most careful Inquiry , I can , concerning our Baths ; and have these particulars to return to you in answer to your Queries .
1 .
The Country round this City is very hilly and uneven ; but the Hills lye in no order ; they are generally rocky and steep from South-west and by West , to North and by North : th , whole Tract of the Country , within 5 .
and 7 .
miles , abounds with Coal-mines , more or less .
But there are no other considerable Mines , that I can hear of , nearer then Mendip , which is 10 .
miles hence , excepting some of Lead at Berry in Gloz cester-shire , which lies up on the North of this place , about 4 .
or 5 .
miles distant .
2 .
The Hills for the most part afford a Free stone ; and on the North-west of Lansdown ( which hath that situation to the Town , and is just above it ) the Stones , dug there , are a sort of hard stone , commonly called a Lyas , blue and white , polishable .
3 .
The Town and Baths are of very great Antiquity .
Besides what I find in very ancient Chronicles to that purpose , one of our great Antiquaries ( Mr. P. ) asserts , that these Baths were 800 .
years before Christ .
Which if so , would give occasion to inquire , how consistent with it that Hypothesis , concerning the Cause of the Heat of these Waters , would be , which makes it to be the Fermentation of Minerals in fieri ; and , whether it be likely , that the Minerals , through which these waters pass , should be in that state of imperfection so many hundred years , and that the whole disposed matter in those places should not be perfectly concreted in so great a Tract of time .
You doubtless know the other conjecture , which supposes the cause of this heat to be , That two streams having run through and imbibed certain sorts of different Minerals , meet at last , after they have been deeply impregnated , and mingle their liquors , from which commixture arises a great fermentation , that causes heat ; like as we see it is in Vitriol and Tartar , which though separately they are not hot , yet when mingled beget an intense heat and ebullition between them .
This seems to me a probable cause of the lastingness of the heat of these waters .
But it is not my business to offer Hypotheses ; therefore craving pardon for this digression , I proceed in my Account .
4 .
It is affirmed here , that the Town for the most part is built upon a Quag-mire , though the places all about it are very firm ground .
Some workmen , that have been employed in digging , have found a mire ten foot deep : without the North-gate , the higest place of the Town , at seven .
The Earth between is a kind of rubbish ; sometimes they find pitching a mans length under ground , and passages for the water to pass : 7 .
or 8 .
foot down they have met with Oyster-shells .
5 .
The Town and Country circumjacent , generally abound with cold Springs : and in some places the hot and cold arise very near each other ; in one place , within two yards , and in others , within 8 .
or 9 .
of the main Bathes .
6 .
The Guides of the Cross-Bath inform me , that , when there is a great West-wind abroad , standing by the Springs they feel a cold air arising from beneath : if the Wind be at East , and the morning close with a little misling rain , the Cross-Bath is so hot as scarce to be endured , when the Kings-and Hot-Baths are colder than usual .
In other winds let the weather be how it will , this Bath is temperate .
The Springs that buble most are coldest .
The Cros-Bath fills in 16 .
hours , both in Winter and Summer , without any difference from heat or cold , flouds or drought .
That of the Kings , in 12 .
or14 .
7 .
A man may better ( ordinarily ) endure 4 .
hours bathing in the Cross-bath , than 1 1/ 2 in the others .
In the Queens Bath ( which hath no Springs of its own ; but comes all out of the Kings ) they have found under a flat stone , which upon occasion was taken up , a Tunnel , and a yielding mud in and under it , into which they thrust a pike , but could feel no bottom .
In the Kings-bath there is a Spring so hot , that it is scarce sufferable , so that they are fain to turn much of it away , for fear of inflaming the Bath .
The hottest Spring will not harden an Egg .
8 .
The Bath-water does not pass through the body like other Mineral waters ; but if you put in Salt , it purges presently .
Upon setlement it affords a black mud , useful in asches , applied by way of Cataplasme ; to some more succesull then the very waters .
The like it deposits upon Distillation , and no other .
Nor hath any more been discovered upon all the Chemical examinations , that have come to our knowledge .
One Dr Astendoff found , that the colour of the Salt , drawn from the Kings-and Hot-bath , was yellow ; that , which was Xxxx2 extracted extracted from the Cross-bath , white .
This Doctor concluded , that the Cross-bath had more of Alum and Niter , than the hotter Bathes , which abouud more with Sulphur .
And yet that Bath loosens shrunk sinews , by which it should seem it abounds not much with Alum .
It is harsher to the taste then the other Baths , and soaks the hands more .
9 .
A man cannot drink half the quantity of strong drinks in the Bath , that he can out of it ; but if he hath drank before to excess , it allay 's much , and is a great refreshment to the body .
The Bath provokes Urine .
10 .
They are very useful in diseases of the Head ; Palsies , Epilepsies and Convulsions : In Cuticular diseases , Leprosies , Jtches and Scabbs : In all Obstructions of the Bowels , as Spleen , Liver , and Mesentery ; and the scirrosity and hardness of those parts : In most diseases of Women ; In the Scurvey and Stone : as to which last , while I am writing , an Alderman of the City assures me , that his Wife , who had been exceedingly troubled with the Stone , went into the Cross-bath for it , and voided there several stones as big as those of Olives , and was never troubled with that distemper after .
The Bath is also good in cold Gouts , as they call them .
The same Alderman tells me , that it gives him present ease , when he is troubled with the fits of it .
He uses to go in , as soon as the fit takes him , which then goes off presently , and returns not in a considerable time after : He puts his feet upon the hottest springs in the Kings-Bath .
But it hath a contrary effect in hot Gouts ; and some , who are troubled with that distemper , tell me , that the Bath puts them into a fit , if they go into it without preparation ; or , if they have the fit before , it inflames it more , and sends it about the body , and disables the Joint so , that there is no treading on it for the present .
Further , the Bath is effectual in the diseases of Children , particularly the Rickets , removing the humors , that proceed from it , without fail .
It is also good for Women , that are apt to miscarry , if used moderately .
The Bathguides go in , when they are ready to lye down ; and other women of the Town use it ordinarily throughout their time , and are never observed to miscarry .
It facilitates deliverance .
Besides , it is very effectual for the strengthning of broken Bones , and good in all cold and moist distempers and weakness of Nerves , Stupefactions , Relaxations , and violent Pains : in all which it gives ease , except the Lues Venerea ; for in that ( except the malignity be overcome by the methods of Physic ) it exasperates the pain more .
It is is an excellent remedy to remove the remaining weakness in Gouts , as hath been remarkably exemplified in old men , even to the age of 83 .
years .
11 .
There is no instance of Cures performed by it in former times , but we have experience of the same in ours ; yea and in some others , as in Dropsies , Cachexies , Spleen &amp;c. In which cases they were shy heretofore of using the Bath , forfear of confirming those Obstructions , whereas it is now found , that their Cure is facilitated by it .
12 .
The Bath-guides live to a very great age , sometimes to near 100 .
years ; ordinarily , if they are temperate , to 70 .
There are two at this time above 80 , a man and his wife .
13 .
In the Cross bath the Guides have observed a certain black Fly with sealed wings , in the form of a Lady-cow , but somewhat bigger .
They say , it shoots quick in the water , and sometimes bites .
It lives under the water , and is never found but in very hot weather : They suppose , it comes up with the Springs .
It is not to be seen elsewhere .
I had one of those Insects sent me last year , which I preserved till I came to London , intending to have given it you ; but I know not , how I lost it there .
14 .
The Cross-bath eats out silver exceedingly ; and I am told , that a shilling in a weeks time hath been so eaten by it , that it might be wound about one 's finger .
The Baths agree ( as the vulgar speaks ) with Brass , but not with Iron : for , they will eat out a ring of this metal in 7 .
years , when Brass-rings seem to receive no prejudice at all from it .
15 .
When Women have washed their hair with the mixture of beaten eggs and oatmeal , this will poison the Bath so , as to beget a most noisome smell , casting a sea-green on the water , which otherwise is very pure and limpid .
This will taint the very walls , and there is no cleansing of it , but by drawing the Bath .
16 .
In Summer the Baths purge up a green scum on the top , but in Winter never ; but then leave a yellow on the Walls .
17 .
The Walls that keep in the hot springs are very deep-set , and large ; 10 .
foot thick , and 14 .
deep from the level of the street .
The cement of the wall is tallow , clay , lime and beaten bricks .
In the year 1659 .
the Hot-bath ( a Bath particularly so called , of equal heat with the Kings-bath ) was much impaired by the breaking out of a Spring , which the workmen at last found again , and restored .
In digging they came to a firm foundation of factitious matter , which had holes in it like a Pumicestone , through which the water played ; so that it is like the Springs are brought together by Art : which probably was the Necromancy , the people of ancient times believed and reported to have contrived and made these Baths ; as in a very ancient manuscript Chronicle I find these words : When Lud Hidibras was dead , Bladud his Son , a great Nygromancer ( so it is there writ ) was made King , and he made the wonder of the hot Bath by his Nygromancy , and he reigned 21 .
years , and after he died , and lies at the new Troy .
And in another old Chronicle it is said , That King Bladud sent for Necromancers to Athens to effect this great business ; who it is like were no other then cunning Artificers , well skilled in Architecture and Mechanicks .
18 .
It hath been observed , that leaves , like those of Olives , come sometimes out of the Pump of the Hot-Bath .
These , Sir , are all the Observations I have been able to collect yet : if any thing else material shall hereafter come to my knowledge about these matters , I shall not fail to impart them , God permitting .
Perhaps these things may administer occasion to more Questions relating to the Bath , and their Phenomenon .
If you or any other ingenious person of the R. Society shall propose any to me , I shall take what care I can to have them punctually answered .
I am &amp;c.

