Mr. G. Bidder .
[ May 12 , ing and protecting the younger foliar structures , from the time of their first formation .
Y. " Note on Excretion in Sponges .
" By George Bidder .
Communicated by Adam Sedgwick , E.R.S. .Received April 9 , 1892 .
In a review* of Mr. Bendy 's work on the Homocoela , I briefly described ( p. 628 ) the " flask-shaped " or " glandular " epithelium , which I believe to form the most common external covering in all groups of sponges .
On p. 631 are shortly mentioned certain other granular cells , believed by Metschnikoff to be mesodermal , and by Bendy to be the dwelling place of symbiotic Algse ; I proposed the neutral name of " Metschnikoff cells .
" " In Ascetta clathrus there is an additional point of interest , that the granules in the ( glandular ) ectoderm cells differ from these , " i.e. , the granules in the Metschnikoff cells , " only in being of smaller size .
I have been very slowly and gradually led to the conclusion that the bodies in question , which I propose to call 'Metschnikoff cells , ' are metamorphosed collar cells ; that by their reaching to the exterior and becoming perforated , pores are formed ; and that the granules of these and of the ectoderm , and of the glandular ectoderm in general ( and possibly the granular cells so frequently described beneath it in Silicea ) , are excretory .
" This latter proposition , so far as concerns , may now be considered proved , and I think the observation sufficiently important to justify my asking permission to communicate it to the Society .
Leaving a sponge in a solution of indigo-carmine in sea-water ( at first I used a saturated , but afterwards a weaker , solution ) , I found that the granules normally present in the Metschnikoff and ectoderm cells become replaced in part by dark-blue granules , no other part of the sponge being in any way coloured blue .
Fig. 1 shows a Metschnikoff cell from a specimen of Ascetta , which had been thirteen hours in saturated indigo-carmine solution .
The black dots represent the granules which were blue , the colourless circles those which were of the usual yellow ; a few of intermediate shading represent granules which appeared pale-blue or green .
Focussing showed that , while this cell stretched under the spicule into the deep parts of the sponge wall , the left-hand extremity emerged on the upper ( ectodermal ) surface . .
This particular cell I had the pleasure of demonstrating , while * 'Quart .
Jl .
Micr .
Sci. , ' Oct. , 1891 , Review\#151 ; Subsequently reprinted , by the permission of Messrs. Churchill , under the title of * Notes on Calcareous Sponges .
' 1892 .
] Note on Excretion Sponges .
Spicule Fig. 1.\#151 ; Living Metschnikoff cell , focussed through , the ectoderm .
Some of its granules are of yellow pigment , and some of the indigo which has been administered .
living , to many gentlemen working in the Zoological Station .
I have also successfully repeated the experiment several times , and ( by the use of concentrated corrosive sublimate with picrocarmine in seawater , followed by anhydrous alcohol and chloroform ) have succeeded in making permanent preparations and sections showing the blue indigo granules , the nuclei stained red , and , though somewhat changed , the original pigment granules .
In a Homoccel sponge found at Naples , corresponding with the ordinary diagnosis of Ascetta primor , I found , after twenty-eight hours in indigo-carmine , that while neither the endoderm nor the " mesodermal " tissue showed any tinge of blue , the flask-shaped ectoderm cells were coloured faintly so , and the granules contained in them strongly blue .
The nuclei were colourless , thus excluding the hypothesis of post-mortem staining , under which they colour darkly .
I have not yet observed with certainty the excretion of indigo-carmine by the ectoderm cells of Ascetta clathrus ; the conditions under which excretion is performed respectively by Metschnikoff cells or ectoderm cells remain , therefore , still to be defined .
But in this sponge the appearance of the yellow granules in the two kinds of cells is precisely the same , except that those in the Metschnikoff cells are larger , being about 17fi in average diameter , as opposed to 11^- And of many characteristic reactions , such as extreme solubility in distilled water , alkaline solutions , alcohol , and other fluids ; solubility in dilute acetic acid , and insolubility in sea-water ; a port wine " colour , disappearing on heating , with iodine in sea-water , and a nearly black colour with osmic acid , I have found no one which differentiated the granules in the two kinds of cell.* All the forms shown by the Metschnikoff cells appear to be strongly * " With reference to Topsent 's observations ( ' Clionidro , ' 1888 , p. 48 ) on Cliona , it is worth mentioning that in no part of is there any trace of a blue reaction with sulphuric acid .
VOL , LI .
2 K Mr. Gr .
Bidder .
[ May 12 , suggestive of the hypothesis that they are loci of discharge , first into the gastral cavity , subsequently on the exterior surface .
To this they have obviously pushed their way ( cf. fig. 2 ) , possibly in Fig. 2.\#151 ; Section through the wall of Ascetta clathrus .
Osmic acid .
Nuclei not stained .
consequence of the occlusion of the gastral cavity .
For the flask-.shaped ectoderm cells , their whole form and disposition indicate with certainty that they are glands discharging to the exterior .
A completely different set of granules , which must not be confused with these , are found in the normal collar cells of many sponges ; for distinction it may be well to speak of them as " basal spherules of the endoderm , " or simply " spherules .
" I have mainly experimented on them in Sycon raphanus , Ascaltis , and Ascetta ( so-called ) .
In the fawn-coloured varieties of these two latter species , the basal spherules give the colour to the sponge ; in the living S.raphanus they are of a greenish tint , more refractive than the protoplasm , but not highly so.* They never blacken with osmic acid , nor give a port wine reaction with iodine , nor do they show any coloration in a sponge which is excreting indigo ( A. primordial^)- In the fresh condition they stain ( S. ) more deeply than the nucleus with acetic acid and methyl-green , and with osmic acid and methyl-green , but they are not stained red by picrocarmine after osmic acid .
In permanent preparations they appear with osmic acid * Similar greenish granules were observed in Spongilla by Lieberkuhn in 1856 and Carter in 1857 .
Saville Kent ( ' Manual of Infusoria , ' p. 80 ) considers the colour to represent u the predominating refractive index of abnormally minute pro toplasmic bodies " on grounds which at least point to its frequent occurrence , Similarly disposed granules , but of pink , violet , or other colour , have been frequently observed in the collar cells of sponges .
1892 .
] Note on Excretion in Sponges .
477 slightly darker than the surrounding protoplasm , and are generally stained to a greater or less degree by haematoxylin .
Their most important reaction , in which they differ alike from the nuclei and the excretory granules , is the characteristically staining during life deeply and immediately with Bismarck-brown .
This was observed in Ascetta primordialis , Ascaltis , Ascandra kiihni , and Sycon raphanus ; after keeping Sycon some days alive , but in unfavourable circumstances , the spherules , though still visible , did not stain more than the surrounding protoplasm .
I believe these basal spherules to be stores of nutritious matter .
In Leucandra aspera and Sycon raphanus ( I have once observed indications in Ascetta primordialis ' ) the collar cell , after it has accumulated a certain quantity of spherules in its base , splits off this base by a transverse fission as a non-nucleated mass of protoplasm , which we may term a " plinth " ( fig. 4 ) ; the plinth then lies between the External Surface Collar Cells .
Sottas 's Membrane .
Flagellum .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Section through the greater part of the length of an afferent pore in Ascetta clathrus .
The nuclei are shown , and endodermal vacuoles , two of which contain amorphous matter .
The spaces left by spicules in.the intercellular jelly are not shown here or in Fig. 2 .
Diameter of pore 6 5/ u. Osmio acid and Mayer 's carmine .
nucleated distal part of the cell\#151 ; the " column " \#151 ; and the mesodermal jelly in S. raphanus , or the thin basement membrane which is all that usually divides two epithelia in L. aspera .
I have observed in the mesoderm of S. raphanus large wandering cells , which I believe to be generative elements , with pseudopodia attached to these plinths , and spherules of the same character as the basal spherules both in the wandering cells and in their pseudopodia ; there can be little doubt that they were feeding on the reserve stores of the collar cells .
The division into column and plinth takes place as a rule at the same time in all or most of the cells of a chamber .
The " columns " or distal parts appear as small , columnar , nucleated cells , provided with a small amount of clear protoplasm , rudimentary collars not united , and flagella ( fig. 4a ) .
2 k 2 Mr. G. Bidder .
[ May 12 } Ectoderm cell *t * je Plinths Large wandering ceil \ ( probably ycnerat^ve^ Fig. 4.\#151 ; Basal spherules of collar cells , raphanus .
At A the typical plint and column is shown .
At B ( from the same preparation ) the fission is less typical , but a large ovum or sperm cell is feeding on the spherules .
Tbef\#174 ; are no collars , but many cells show sharply flat , or even concave tops , suggest ing that the collars are being formed anew .
Osmic acid and hsematoxylinMy conception of the metamorphoses of the collar cells is as fo * lows:\#151 ; In Heteroccela ( probably it is similar in Silicea ) the collars o the collar cells are at first mere fringes , which help to retain t \#174 ; food and filter the water as it passes from the base of the cel ' the moving tip of the flagellum .
When the cell is satiated \#174 ; flagellum ceases to move , and degenerates ; the collar unites w 1892.1 Note on Excretion Sponges .
the neighbouring collars to prevent the water that is already filtered and already foul from returning past the inactive area to pollute the afferent water supply .
When the food has been digested , the cells elongate and become closely pressed together ; the separation of their basal parts takes place in the manner already described , and the distal parts start on a new cycle with hungry protoplasm , active flagella , and separated collars .
In the Homocoela I have been unable to make sure of these changes other than as regards the habitual association of Sollas 's membrane with the absence of flagella , and of the presence of flagella with separated collars .
( This was noticed by Sollas , 1888 , in the Tetractinellida of the * Challenger .
' ) The nucleus in the collar cells of the Homoccela is generally basal , whereas in the Heteroccela , contrary to the current statements , it is almost always distal , the basal spherules having been commonly mistaken for it .
The idea rather suggests itself that in sponges with basal nuclei in the collar cells the fission into column and plinth does not take place .
Of the Metschnikoff cells in A. clathrus the following is the history .
Under certain circumstances the Sollas 's membrane and the gastral surface of the collar cells become replaced by a continuous hyaline film charged with the yellow granules characteristic of the sponge ( vide fig. 2 ) .
Certain collar cells\#151 ; or , rather , quondam collar cells\#151 ; become charged throughout their whole substance with these grannies ; they are now Metschnikoff cells , and are the cells described ( p. 360 ) and figured by that author as mesoderm cells in his well-known paper ( " Spong .
Studien ' Zeits .
wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 32 ) .
They are almost always excavated by a cavity or duct , * frequently taking the form of a capillary and sometimes branching tube ; they push through towards the ectodermal surface , with which they become connected ; the granular film covering the general gastral surface disappears .
It is now to be noted that the afferent pores of all the Homocoela I have examined consist each of a single , nucleate , perforated cell ; + the film of protoplasm , though very thin compared with the size of the lumen , is charged with granules similar to those found in the ectoderm cells .
A. longitudinal section through part of * { jMdy 16.\#151 ; " In the next stage , which I regard as a more advanced condition , they form a ring surrounding an empty discoid or sometimes crescentic space .
( Dendy , Monograph , p. 18.)\#151 ; The " peculiar structures " met with by this author in Grantia labyrinthica ( p. 17 ) , I interpret as column-and-plinth chambers violently contracted in alcohol ; the lateral coherence of the cells renders them subject to this .
The " nerve-cells " in fig. 31 of the same paper are my " glandular epithelium .
The " gland-cells " under the gastral surface in fig. 26 I believe in 8 .
to be sperm mother-cells , having the remarkable peculiarity that the spermatozoa come to maturity singly .
] t Cf .
Minchin , ' Quart .
Jl .
Micr .
Sci. , ' vol. 33 , PI .
11 , fig- 21 .
Mr. Gr .
Bidder .
[ May 12 , a pore in Ascetta clathrus is shown in fig. 3 .
My conclusion on first detecting the form of the normal ectoderm was that the pores were ectoderm cells which had placed themselves in communication with the gastral cavity .
I have found , however , where the conditions are most abnormal the ectoderm cells in their usual flask-shaped form apparently inactive ; while , on the other hand , Metschnikoff cells are very frequent in all stages up to the condition in which they are exposed on both gastral and external surfaces and perforated nearly from end to end .
I believe that when they have reached this stage they discharge their granules from the external as well as from the gastral surface .
The lumen is thus completed , and a perforation through the wall is formed , which , on regeneration of the gastral epithelium , persists as an afferent pore .
The prosopyle cells of the Heterocoela consist also each of a single perforated , nucleate cell , frequently containing granules ( c/ .
also Polejaeff , ' Chall .
Calcarea , ' Plate III ) , and I suggest the hypothesis that primitively the afferent pores of sponges are perforated excretory cells derived from the endoderm , while the ectoderm is a layer of cells excreting constantly from the intercellular jelly , their flaskshaped form having been developed to expose the greatest possible surface to the medium from which the excreted substance is derived .
They have been differentiated on the exterior as a covering to the nutritory and reproductory cells of the sponge , in order , by reason of their noxious contents , to form some protection to the naked protoplasm .
[ May 16 , 1892.\#151 ; I wish to suggest , as a proper subject for expert chemical analysis , the question , how far the substance excreted by Calcarea in the granules of the ectoderm and Metschnikoff cells is allied to the so-called spongin .
At first sight , such a proposition may appear idle .
But Kolliker , O. Schmidt , and many others have recorded in horny sponges cuticle of various degrees of insolubility , up to a point at which it cannot be distinguished in constitution from the horny skeleton with which it stands in connexion .
Both from my own observations on an Aplysilla ( ?
) at Naples ( bearing a cuticle insoluble in caustic ammonia ) , and from a study of Schulze 's detailed description of the superficial structure , particularly in JEuspongia , I am persuaded that the ectoderm cells of the homy sponges are of the same form and character as those in the Homoccela .
Again , the'slimy covering of Halisarca ( Merejkovsky ) is precisely homologous with the granules excreted by the ectoderm of calcareous sponges .
If the cuticle of horny sponges be granular\#151 ; as Schmidt found it in Esperia tunicata\#151 ; these three products are morphologically identical , and it is not unreasonable to inquire if they are chemically related .
Further , I canuot find the adequate arguments that have led to the j 1892* ] Note on Excretion in . .
i abandonment of the old view , that the horny fibres are derived from the cuticle and the ectoderm ; I can see no evidence advanced for the mesodermal nature of the " cap-like investment belonging to the dermal layer of the connective tissue ' " which Schulze finds ( ' Spongidse , ' 1879 , p. 637* ) to be the organ productive of the principal growth of the fibre ; I think that Lendenfeld is probably right in his homology of the spongoblasts with gland cells ( 1883 , 'Zeitschr .
wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 38 , p. 256 ) , and in his statement that the two tissues are continuous one with another ( ' Horny Sponges , ' 1889 , p. 790 ) .
Having found with certainty that the flat epithelium , which he draws and describes in detail ( ' Monograph of Australian Sponges , ' 1884 , 1885 , passim ; ' Monograph of Horny Sponges , ' 1889 , p. 775 ; * Kalksehwamme , ' 1891 , p. 162 ) , over the gland cells of calcareous sponges has no existence , I reject entirely his evidence that a similar epithelium covers the gland cells of Ceratosa ; the more so as Schulze , Polejaeff , and other conscientious workers have failed to demonstrate it .
I hold that these gland cells are the ordinary flask-shaped epithelium which forms the external covering of most sponges , and is presumably the ectoderm .
I hold it on the present evidence probable that the spongoblasts are homologous with them , the horny fibre with the homy cuticle , and the hexagonal markings of the horny fibre with the well known " silver lines " of the outer surface .
It is impossible for any unskilled person to attempt the chemical comparison of such substances ; the more so as " spongin " is a body \#151 ; or a series of bodies\#151 ; hitherto little investigated and vaguely defined .
' As used by zoologists , it is a convenient word applied to a number of different , nitrogenous substances , not easily soluble , found as supporting structure in a large group of more or less allied sponges ; while the skeletons of some genera are easily soluble in caustic potash ( Kolliker ) , and even very dilute caustic potash ( Dybowski ) , in others they withstand it at boiling temperature , and in any strength.f We have assumed these substances to be related because of their homologous occurrence in allied animals ; I wish to extend this assumption , for what it is worth , to the excretory granules of Calcarea .
It is noticeable that , like " spongin , " the matter composing these granules is characterised by a tendency to great variation .
It is just to our leader to say that in the same paper he expressly states that he speaks of " connective tissue , " because its homology with " mesoderm " is only probable , and not proved ( p. 625 ) .
But I suggest that , from his description , it is I open to the reader to believe that the cap belongs to the " outer cell-layer , and not 1 the connective tissue layer .
" Compare especially p. 626 .
'T Vosmaer points out that analyses have hitherto only been made on Euspongia .
The observations of Ridley , to which Vosmaer gives his support , show that the | horny skeletons of some Ceratosa are not doubly refractive .
Mr. G. Bidder .
[ May 12 , This variation takes place , not only among closely allied species , but in the grannies of one and the same cell ; suggesting most strongly that the substance itself is mutable , and that the different aspects it presents are phases through all of which individual granules may pasgi Adding distilled water under the microscope to a fragment of white Ascetta primordialis , all the granules turn orange-yellow ( their colour in the red variety ) , and the greater part of them can be seen instantaneously to dissolve .
But in many of the cells there are a certain number of granules which remain after a week 's maceration , and then exhibit considerable resistance to caustic potash ; in Ascandra reticulum the same phenomena occur with but slight variation* In the light of this history we may perhaps reconcile , on the one hand , Ascetta clathrus , in which all the granules appear to be ultimately dissolved in distilled water , and , on the other hand , cavata , in which Dendy finds them insoluble in boiling caustic potash .
I suggest as a working hypothesis that the yellow granules of Aseetta clathrus are a soluble nitrogenous excretion which is highly mutable , and readily gives rise to the less soluble substances occurring with it in the granules of other Homocoela .
I suggest that this substance is probably the common nitrogenous secretion of the protoplasm in all sponges , and that the horny sponges are those which have learned to retain it within their bodies until it has formed one or other of those more or less insoluble products which we usually recognise under the hospitable name of spongin .
I hope soon to discuss this hypothesis more at length , and to give the full grounds for my conviction as to the general presence in sponges of a glandular or flask-shaped external ectoderm .
The homology between cuticle and horn fibres has been insisted on by Kolliker , O. Schmidt , Hyatt , and others ; the resemblance between dermal cells and spongoblasts has been noted by Marenzeller , and emphasised by Lendenfeld ; their complete homology , and the probability of the slime of the skin being " spongin and much water , * If either of these two sponges be shaken violently for three minutes in distilled water , and the liquid thoroughly filtered , a clear yellow ( golden-yellow A. primordialis ) slightly alkaline solution results .
Acidifying with 1 part in 10,000 of acetic acid , there is no immediate effect ; but in the course of some hours a flocculent brown precipitate is thrown down , insoluble except on boiling , in either concentrated caustic potash or nitric acid ; the solution made with boiling nitric acid leaves a straw-coloured residue on evaporation which turns rich yellow on the addition of ammonia , and becomes black on over-heating .
I may note that I have now ( May 14 ) succeeded in obtaining crystals from a solution made by placing Ascetta clathrus in absolute alcohol j after remaining some months in a bottle an decreasing in volume , the alcohol contains a number of long , thin , glittering blade like crystals , as much as 3 mm. long , doubly refracting , very soluble in water j t e nitrate appears to be soluble in nitric acid .
1892.1 Note on Excretion Sponges .
is insisted on by Lendenfeld ; the derivation of sponge fibres , onto-trenetically , by invagination of the onter surface , has been observed by Barrois and O. Schmidt ; the probability that spongin arose as a nitrogenous excretion has been suggested by Eisig .
While I cannot ask space here to acknowledge my numerous obligations both at Cambridge and Naples , it is impossible not to express my thanks to Professor Dohrn for his great kindness in placing a table at my disposal in the Zoological Station .
] REFERENCES .
( The page given is the one cited in the text .
) Lieberkuhn , N ... ... .
1856 .
* Muller 's Archiv , p. 3 .
Carter , H. J ... ... ... . .
1857 .
' Annals and Mag. , ' vol. 15 , p. 31 .
Kalliker , A. von ... . .
1864 .
\#171 ; leones Histiologies ) , ' p. 54 .
Schmidt , O. ... ... ... . .
1864 .
' Suppl. der Spongien des Adriat .
Meeres , ' pp. 2 , 7 , 55 .
Barrois , C ... ... ... . .
1876 .
" Memoir sir l'Embryologie de quelques Eponges de la Manche , " * Ann. Sc. Not .
, ' ser. 6 , vol. 3 , p. 75 ( Desmacidon fruticosa ) .
Hyatt , A ... ... ... ... ... 1877 .
* Mem. Boston Soc. Not .
Hist. , ' vol. 2 , " Spongiadae , " p , 482 .
Marenzeller , E. von . .
1877 .
* Hie Coelenteraten u. s. w. der K.K. Oesterr.-ungar .
Nordpol-Expedition , ' Wien , p. 7 ( Schmidti ) .
Merejkovsky , 0 .
de . .
1878 .
' Mem. Acad. Sc. St. Petersbourg , ' tome 26 , pp. 33 , 34 .
Metschnikoff , E ... ... .
1879 .
" Spong .
Studien , " ' Zeits .
Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 32 , p. 360 ( blanca and clathrus ) .
Schulze , F. E ... ... ... 1879 .
" Die Family der Spongidae , " * Zeits .
Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 32 , pp. 625,626,637 ( officinalis ) .
Saville Kent , W ... ... .
1880 .
' Manual of Infusoria , ' p. 80 .
Dybowski , W. ... ... ... 1880 .
* Mem. Acad. Sc. St. Petersbourg , ' tome 27 , p. 4 .
Ridley , S. O. ... ... . .
1881 .
" On the Gtenus * Joum .
Linn. Soc. ( Zool. ) , ' vol. 15 , p. 481 .
Lendenfeld , R. von . .
1883 .
" Ueber Coelenteraten der Siidsee , II , " * Zeits .
Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 38 , p. 256 .
.1884-5 .
" Monograph of Australian Sponges , " ' Proc. Linn. Soc. N.S.W. ' 1889 .
' Monograph of the Horny Sponges , ' pp. 775 , 790.^ \#171 ; \lt ; ])ie Spongien der Adria .
I. Hie Kalkschwamme , * Zeits .
Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 53 , p. 162 .
Pol6jaeff , N. ... ... .
1884 .
' Report on the Calcarea dredged by H.M.S. " Challenger , " ' PI .
3 , fig. 7 .
Vosmaer , GK C. J. . .
1887 .
Bronn 's " Porifera , " p. 435 .
Topsent , E ... ... ... . .
1888 .
" Contribution at l'Etude des Clionides , " ' Arch. d. Zool. Exper .
et Q-en .
, ' V bis suppl .
( 1887-90 ) , p. 48 .
Sollas , W. J ... ... ... 1888 .
' Report on the Tetractinellida collected by H.M.S. " Challenger , " ' p. xxxvii .
484 Presents .
Eisig , Hugo ... ... . .
1889 .
" Monographic der Capitelliden des Golfes von Neapel " ( Naples , * Eauna und Flora ' ) , p. 359 Dendy , Arthur ... ... . .
1891 .
" On the Anatomy of labyrinthica " * Quart .
Jl .
Micr .
Sci. , * vol. 32 , pp. 17 and 26 .
* A Monograph of the Victorian Sponges .
Part I Calcarea , Homocoela , * Melbourne .
Bidder , George ... ... . .
1891 .
Review , * Quart .
Jl .
Micr .
Sci. , ' vol. 32 ( reprinted as ' Notes on Calcareous Sponges ' ) .
Minchin , E. A. ... ... 1892 .
" Note on a Sieve-like Membrane , " \amp ; c. , ' Quart .
Jl .
Micr .
Sci. , ' vol. 33 , PI .
11 , fig. 21 .
Presents , May 12 , 1892 .
Transactions .
Berwickshire Naturalists ' Club .
Proceedings .
Vol. XIII .
No. 1 .
8vo .
\_AlnwicTc , 1892 ] .
The Club .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; Museum of Comparative Zoology , Harvard College .
Memoirs .
Vol. XVII .
No. 2 .
4to .
Cambridge 1892 .
The Museum .
Chapel Hill , North Carolina.\#151 ; Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society .
Journal .
Vol. VIII .
Part 2 .
8vo .
Raleigh 1892 .
The Society .
Edinburgh:\#151 ; Geological Society .
Transactions .
Vol. VI .
Part3 .
8vo .
Edinburgh 1892 .
The Society .
Hertfordshire Natural History Society .
Transactions .
Vol. YI .
Parts 4-7 .
Vol. VII .
Part 1 .
8vo .
London 1891-92 .
The Society .
Leipsic:\#151 ; Konigl .
Sachs .
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Ab-handlungen ( Philol.-Histor .
Class ) .
Bd .
XIII .
No. 4 .
8vo .
Leijpsio 1892 ; Berichte ( Math.-Phys .
Class ) 1891 .
No. 5 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1892 .
The Society .
London:\#151 ; British Astronomical Association .
Journal .
Vol. II* No. 5 .
8vo .
London 1892 .
The Association .
British Museum .
Catalogue of Printed Books .
Mary\#151 ; Mazzutelli ; Meini\#151 ; Milton ( H. ) ; Catalogues .
4to .
London 1892 .
The Trustees .
Geological Society .
Quarterly Journal .
Vol. XLVIII .
No. 190 .
8vo .
London 1892 .
The Sooiety .
Iron and Steel Institute .
Journal .
1891 .
No. 2 .
8vo .
London [ 1892 ] .
The Institute .
Odontological Society .
Transaction Vol. XXIV .
No. 6 .
8vo .
London 1892 .
The Society .
Society of Biblical Archaeology .
Proceedings .
Vol. XIY* Part 6 .
8vo .
London1892 .
The Society .
Luxemburg:\#151 ; Societe des Naturalistes Luxembourgeois .
" Fauna .
Annee 1892 .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Luxembourg .
The Society*

