1870 .
] Anniversary Meeting .
November 30 , 1870 .
ANNIVERSARY MEETING .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
General Boileau , for the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society , reported that the total receipts during the past year , including a balance of 36324 4s .
Id. carried from the preceding year , and 368OO taken from the Oliveira bequest on deposit , amount to 365410 3s .
, and that the total expenditure in the same period amounts to 365282 13s .
9c ? .
, leaving a balance of 3691 18s .
3c ? .
at the Bankers , and of 3635 11s .
in the hands of the Treasurer .
The thanks of the Society were voted to Mr. Spottiswoode and the Auditors .
The Secretary read the following Lists:\#151 ; Fellows deceased since the last Anniversary .
Royal .
His Imperial and Royal Highness Leopold the Second .
On the Home List .
Edward William Brayley , Esq. Alexander Bryson , M.D. The Hon. and Rev. Richard Carle-ton , M.A. Sir James Clark , Bart. , M.D. Charles Collier , M.D. James Copland , M.D. John Thomas Graves , Esq. , M.A. William Alexander M ackinnon , Esq. , M.A. James Prince Lee , Lord Bishop of Manchester .
Augustus Matthiessen , Esq. , Ph. D. William Allen Miller , M.D. , D.C.L. , Treas .
R.S. Arthur Morgan , Esq. The Right Hon. Sir Frederick Pollock , Bart. , M.A. The Rev. William Taylor .
James Vetch , Capt. R.E. Augustus V. Waller , M.D. John Wilson , M.D. On the Foreign List .
Heinrich Gustav Magnus .
Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , Change of Title .
The Bishop of Oxford to Bishop of Winchester .
Fellows elected since the last Anniversary .
William Froude , C.E. Edward Headlam Greenhow , M.D. James Jago , M.D. Nevil Story Maskelyne , M.D. Maxwell Tylden Masters , M.D. Robert , Lord Napier of Magdala .
Alfred Newton , M.A. Andrew Noble , Esq/ Capt. Sherard Osborn , R.N. Rev. Stephen Parkinson , B.D. Anders Jons Angstrom .
Capt. Robert Mann Parsons , R.E. William Henry Ransom , M.D. George Granville William Suther-land-Leveson-Gower , Duke of Sutherland , K.G. Robert H. Scott , Esq. George Frederic Verdon , C.B. Augustus Voelcker , Ph. D. Samuel Wilks , M.D. | Joseph Antoine Ferdinand Plateau .
On the Foreign List .
The President then addressed the Society as follows :\#151 ; Gentlemen , Since our last Anniversary , another volume , the fourth , of the Society 's Catalogue of Scientific Papers , has been published , bringing the alphabetical list of titles down to P O Z. Pursuant to the arrangement which I announced last year , Professor Cams of Leipsic spent some weeks in London during the spring , in preparing the Index Rerum .
It was his intention to come again in the autumn to continue his labours ; but the outbreak of the war prevented him from leaving his home and family , so that the resumption of his work is postponed for the present .
The preparation of the Index Rerum will , however , continue to engage the careful attention of the Library Committee ; meanwhile I am glad to say that good progress is being made with the printing of Volume V. , of which a fourth part is now in type .
In the last summer we have had the misfortune of losing our Treasurer , Dr. William Allen Miller , one of our most valued and distinguished Fellows , and one who surely enjoyed the regard , as well as the high esteem , of all who knew him .
He was also one who , in addition to important direct scientific work , had for several years shared actively in the cares and the labours called for by the many and varying subjects referred each year to the Royal Society , as represented by its Officers and Council , and by the special Committees appointed by them to deal with each case as it President 's Address .
1870 .
] It may be in the recollection of some of the Fellows that , in the Anniversary Address delivered in 1863 , 1 ventured to suggest the interest and probable value of a series of Pendulum Experiments at the principal stations of the Great Indian Arc. Encouraged by the warm concurrence in opinion and promised support of Colonel Walker , Superintendent of the Indian Trigonometrical Survey , a circular note was addressed by myself , with the concurrence of the Council , to several of the Fellows of the Royal Society conversant with the subject ; and the correspondence , including an outline of the proceedings which in Colonel Walker 's judgment would be required in India , should the experiments receive the sanction of the Indian authorities , was submitted through the proper channels to the Secretary of State for India , and received the sanction of the Indian Government .
The pendulums and accompanying apparatus having been prepared at the observatory of the British Association at Kew ( aided by a special subsidy from the Government-Grant Fund placed annually at the disposal of the Royal Society ) , were embarked for India , in March 1865 , under the charge of Captain Basevi of the Royal Engineers , appointed to conduct the experiments with them in India .
These have been executed in great part , and are still in progress , under that officer 's superintendence .
In the meantime the Royal Society has been favoured by a recent communication from the Secretary of State for India , enclosing Col. Walker 's official report of what has been accomplished , and of what remains to be accomplished in India , to complete the original programme\#151 ; and transmitting a despatch signed by the Governor General and other high authorities of the Indian Government , requesting that the President and Council of the Royal Society may be invited to suggest at an early day any supplementary measures which they may deem desirable .
It appears that , at the date of Colonel Walker 's report , pendulum experiments had been completed at twenty-five stations on the mainland of India , extending from Cape Comorin in lat. 8 ' 5f N. to Mussoorie in lat. 30 ' 28 ' N. , and at a 26th station , on the Island of Minicoy , midway between the Maldives and the Laccadives , in lat. 8 ' 6'\#151 ; and that five additional stations had been allotted as the work of the present year , four of which are in the high tablelands of India between 32 ' and 36 ' N. , and one near the mouth of the Indus .
I had the pleasure of receiving , about the same time , a letter from Colonel Walker himself , announcing his intention of being in England , on furlough , towards the end of December , when he might be personally informed of any further uses to be made of the pendulums in India\#151 ; proposing also that , on the return voyage to England , Captain Basevi should be instructed to obtain the rates of the pendulums at Aden ( suggested as desirable , from its geographical peculiarities , by our Foreign Secretary , in a letter to myself , printed in the Minutes of Council of June 1864 ) , and at a station to be selected in the vicinity of the Bitter Lakes .
Colonel Walker also suggested that , on the arrival of the pendulums in England , 116 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 ; their rates should be ascertained at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , in addition to the necessary repetition of the original experiments at the Kew Observatory .
The documents thus referred to having been read at a recent evening meeting , and suitable communications having been made to those Fellows of the Society who participated in the original recommendation of the experiments , a Committee has been named , with Colonel Walker as one of its members , to meet as soon as may be convenient after his arrival in England , to prepare a reply to the Indian Government .
It may perhaps be permissible to notice , on this occasion , that the experiments on the retardation which pendulums experience when vibrated in different gases , for which a sum was allotted some years since by the Government-Grant Committee , yet await the supervision of an experimentalist having sufficient leisure and interest in the subject .
The apparatus at Kew may be made quite suitable for the purpose ; and the occasion is favourable .
The successful voyage and safe return of the North-German Polar Expedition is an event on which the Royal Society may add its sincere congratulations to those of the public at large .
The progress of geographical discovery , connecting with itself , as it does , the advancement of many physical sciences which require , either for extension or for confirmation , the assurance derived from experimental research , has for nearly three centuries been carried on in the Arctic Regions , where it has afforded a common field for the enterprises of the British and of the northern continental nations\#151 ; enterprises conducive to hardihood , and to qualities which are the result of a generous emulation , unmixed with the deteriorating influences which are hut too apt to be generated by the rivalries of war .
The earliest of these undertakings were indeed antecedent to the existence of the Royal Society ; but on their revival\#151 ; which took place in 1818 , at the termination of the great War by which Europe had been desolated for so many years\#151 ; the British Government , at the instigation of the Royal Society , was the first to recommence , and for several years to continue , a succession of undertakings , in which we have now to recognize the successful participation of more than one kindred and allied people .
The German expedition consisted of the * Germania , ' a steamer of about 80 tons , duly strengthened for encounters with ice , commanded by Captain Koldeway , who seems to have possessed in an eminent degree the special qualifications required in such an enterprise .
Besides her naval complement of twelve officers and seamen , four gentlemen were embarked for special scientific services , to whom were confided , among other objects , the researches preliminary to the measurement of an arc of the meridian on the coast-line of East Greenland .
The * Germania ' was accompanied by a smaller vessel , not furnished with steam apparatus , named " The President*s Address .
1870 .
] Hansa .
" Thus unequally provided , the two vessels parted company in the ice which has to be traversed in the passage from Europe to East Greenland , and did not subsequently rejoin ; the Hansa ' having been unable to force her way through the ice , was finally wrecked by it , the crew escaping on the ice , and being conveyed , on a constantly lessening ice-raft , to near the latitude of Cape Farewell , whence they made their way in their boats , which they had preserved , to the nearest Danish settlements , from which they have returned without loss of life .
The * Germania ' having forced her way through the ice by the aid of steam , anchored on the 5th of August , 1869 , in the small but secure bay , in lat. 74 ' 32 ' , and long .
18 ' 53f W. , on the south side of the island on which my pendulum experiments had been made forty-six years before .
They subsequently visited Cape Philip Broke in lat. 74 ' 55 ' , which had been the first landing-point on the coast when examined by Captain Clavering and myself in the British Expedition of 1823 .
The highest latitude reached by the * Germania ' was 75 ' 31 ' , where she was stopped by the*ice , and returned to winter in the bay , in the Pendulum Island , in which they had first anchored .
The extreme northern point of the coast which had been seen in 1823 , named by Captain Clavering ** The Haystack , " in lat. 75 ' 42f , was visited in sledges in the spring of 1870 , by parties engaged in the survey operations , which extended into the 77th parallel .
One of the most noteworthy results of this expedition , and it may possibly prove one of the most important , is the .
discovery that the lands adjacent to the bays and fiords in East Greenland abound in flocks of Reindeer and Musk-oxen , and in smaller game of various descriptions .
It is stated that during the stay of many months on the coast the crew were rarely without an abundant supply of fresh food , derived from the country itself .
It is possible that this abundance of game , combined with the magnificence of the glaciers and of the mountain scenery accessible by the deeply intersecting fiords , may tempt persons who in these days have trained themselves to arduous mountain-ascents to visit a country in which panoramic views over yet unexplored regions of the globe might be a recompense for their toils and dangers .
The mountains rising from one of the fiords visited by the surveying parties of the ' Germania * attain a height of 14,000 feet .
The view from such an elevation might possibly accomplish more than many maritime expeditions , to shape out the yet unknown geography of Northern Greenland * .
The distance in a direct line from the most northern point of the coast visited by the surveying parties of the * Germania , ' to the expanse of open ocean seen by Kane and Hayes to the north of Kennedy 's Channel , and described as abounding in animal life and * The officers of the ' Germania ' speak with enthusiasm of the scenery in the deep fiord in lat. 73 ' , up which they steamed more than 70 nautical miles in a westerly direction .
They say:\#151 ; " The further we went the milder we found the temperature ; the scenery was grand as in the Alps .
The true interior of Greenland showed itself with constantly increasing grandeur and beauty to our admiring eyes .
" VOL. XIX .
I 118 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , indicating in many ways the proximity of an extensive open sea , is not more than about 400 geographical miles .
The Survey which has been recently made under the auspices of the Swedish Government , with a view to the measurement of an arc of the meridian at Spitzbergen , may have suggested the corresponding survey of the coast of East Greenland .
But , without doubt , the extent of continuous land in the direction of the meridian is much greater in Greenland than in Spitzbergen ; whilst the fiords , which so generally characterize the Greenland coast , would probably greatly facilitate the access to localities suitable for trigonometrical stations .
The return of the ' Germania , ' whilst the objects of her mission were still incomplete , was occasioned by the necessity of replacing her boiler , which had wholly failed ; and she will probably resume her operations in the coming year .
It is understood that the Swedes also are organizing another Spitzbergen expedition , of which the special objects have not yet been announced .
It may be hoped that the remeasurement of the Fairhaven Hill may be remembered on this occasion .
Its height in 1823 was determined with great care , both geometrically and barometrically , by Captain Foster and myself ( Phil. Trans. 1824 , Art .
xvi .
) .
The permanency , or otherwise , in the elevation of marked features of the land is a subject of considerable geological importance in some countries ; and Spitzhergen is one of those in which it has been occasionally questioned .
The discrepancy in the action of the currents experienced in 1823 and 1869 , on the extensive ice-fields which occupy the middle space between the coasts of Europe and of East Greenland , is very noteworthy .
In 1823 the most careful observations , of officers greatly practised in such investigations , failed to discover any perceptible surface-current whatsoever , either by its effect on the ice itself , or on the surface-water of the sea between the ice and the Greenland coast ; whilst in 1869 the crew of the ' Hansa , ' having taken refuge on the ice after the loss of their vessel , in the approximate geographical position of 70 ' 50 ' N. and 21 ' W. , were carried by it to the lat. of 61 ' 12 ' N. and long , ( about ) 42 ' W. , \#151 ; being a drift extending over more than 500 geographical miles , accomplished in little less than 200 days , the average being somewhat less than three miles a day .
In seas much encumbered by floating ice , currents are generally ascribed to the prevailing winds ; and there appears to have been in 1869 a considerable amount of northerly gales .
But the frequent existence of a current setting to the south and south-west down the coast of East Greenland has been recognized by the highest authorities , and is regarded by Forchhammer , in his valuable memoir on the Phenomena of the Sea , in the Philosophical Transactions for 1865 , as a returning branch of the Gulf-stream , recognizable as such by the difference in the analysis of the polar and equatorial waters .
This branch of physical research has doubtless received full attention from the officers of the ' Germania ; ' and we must await the publication of the complete account of the voyage for the full details .
The plant-remains of the Miocene epoch , discovered in Spitzbergen and President 's Address .
1870 .
] Greenland , have given a new feature of interest to future explorations within the Arctic Circle .
The valuable memoir which Professor Oswald Heer , of Zurich , has contributed recently to the Philosophical Transactions .
( 1869 , Art .
XIII .
) , has added much to the evidence contained in his previous papers of the existence , at that early period of the earth 's history , of a vegetation in some cases identical with , and in others scarcely differing from , that which now lives and flourishes in the Temperate Zone\#151 ; a vegetation comprehending oaks , planes , chestnuts , and even a Magnolia , the leaves and fruit of which were found in the North-Greenland deposits .
Altogether , Professor Heer has identified no less than 137 species of the Arctic flora of the Miocene age ; and he has moreover inferred , with great appearance of reason , that at the same era vegetation of the same character may have prevailed generally in lands within the Arctic Circle .
The anticipation of future discoveries of plant-remains , adding possibly largely to the number of 137 species already recognized , must tend to give to land-explorations and excursions an interest which was comparatively wanting to them when all that the explorer could anywhere hope to find ( other than the scanty , though in some respects beautiful , flora which the rigours of the Arctic region at the present time still suffer to exist ) was , at most , the less attractive fossil remains of much earlier geological ages , to the climatology of which less interest attaches than to that of the comparatively recent ( however ancient ) Miocene age .
There have been in the past year two vacancies in the list of Foreign Members of the Royal Society .
The two gentlemen who have been elected are Professor Joseph Antoine Ferdinand Plateau , of Ghent , and Professor Anders Jons Angstrom , of Upsala .
Professor Plateau has been an earnest worker in the field of physical science for above forty years .
His memoirs , the titles of which ( forty-six in number ) are given in the fourth volume of the Society 's Catalogue of Scientific Papers , give evidence-of the completeness with which he has treated the subjects he has taken up ; and many of his experiments are remarkable for their ingenuity and originality .
Questions in physical optics were the first to engage his attention .
In this branch of science his researches were confined to the laws of visual appearances , including those relating to ocular spectra , the duration of impressions on the retina , and irradiation ; and though some of nis conclusions may have to be corrected , there is no doubt that in this special department he has done more than any one of his predecessors or contemporaries .
Another subject which has occupied him in his later years , and has supplied the materials of eleven memoirs , concerns the figures of equilibrium of a liquid mass without gravity .
No one can contest the perfect originality of this series of investigations , or fail to admire the simple and effective means by which he has carried out his experiments , and the sagacity with which he has arrived at results which have formed a new starting- 120 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , point for mathematical investigations relating to the corpuscular theory .
It is much to be regretted that Professor Plateau 's scientific labours for more than twenty years past have been carried on under a deprivation of sight occasioned by the ardent pursuit of his favourite science .
Although totally blind , his experiments are of the most exquisite delicacy ; and the reasoning of which they form the material is as accurate and penetrating as the experiments themselves are beautiful .
The second gentleman who is elected a Foreign Member , Professor \#169 ; Angstrom , is distinguished by his researches in many departments of physical science , and is entitled to rank among the very highest of those who have within a few years developed the powers of spectroscopy to their present marvellous extent .
In fact , his ' Optic Researches , ' 1853 , contain the fundamental principles of nearly all that has been done since .
The following notice is from the pen of the Rev. Dr. T. Romney Robinson , F.R.S. , of Armagh :\#151 ; " From Euler 's theory of Resonance , he infers that , as a body absorbs all " the series of oscillations which it can itself assume , it must , when heated so " as to become luminous , emit the same rays which at a lower temperature it " absorbs .
" It is hardly possible to announce more distinctly this important fact , on " which nearly all solar and stellar spectroscopy rests ; and it is much to be " regretted that , from the ignorance of the Scandinavian languages which is " so general in this country , it was not known here till 1856 .
He proceeds " to examine the spectrum of the electric spark .
It is traversed by two sets " of lines on an obscure ground .
The first of these belongs to air .
The " lines reach across the spectrum , and do not vary with the nature of the " electrodes .
The second set come from the electrodes ; they are in general " far brighter than the other , and , unless the discharge is powerful , are con- " fined to the vicinity of the electrodes .
Each metal has its own set ; but , " owing to the small dispersion of his spectroscope ( one prism of 46 ' ) , he " thought some lines were common to two or more metals .
Alloys showed " the lines of their components with no greater difference than could be explained by the want of power in his instrument .
He shows that these " lines are not produced by interference .
The solar spectrum may be re- " garded as a reversion of the electric one ; and he is convinced that the ex- " planation of the dark lines in the former embraces that of the bright " lines in the other .
Each gas has its peculiar spectrum ; he notices the " faintness of the oxygen-lines in air , and he describes the three bright bands " of hydrogen , and a fourth fainter .
" In 1861 , in a second memoir , he developed bis theory of the reversion of " the lines .
He bad then obtained a better spectroscope and a large Ruhm- " korff , with which he compared many of the solar with metallic lines .
Many " double lines belong to two metals .
Gas-lines are more diffused and less " sharply defined than those of metals , especially metals difficult of fusion .
" He found no evidence of nitrogen or oxygen in the sun .
President 's Address .
1870 .
] " His third memoir ( 1863 ) contains a determination of the wave-lengths \#171 ; of Fraunhofer 's principal lines , and others , 70 in all .
As the same matter is " treated far more completely in a subsequent memoir , it is only necessary to " notice that he corrects his measures for the pressure and temperature of " the air , for the temperature of the grating employed , and for the aberration " caused by a motion of the instrument in a direction at right angles to the " incident light .
This last will cause a difference between the deviations on " each side of zero .
In the high latitude of Upsala , and in an unfavourable " summer , the observations which he made to test the reality of this correc- " tion were neither sufficiently good nor numerous to satisfy him ; yet the " difference which he found agreed very closely with what was computed .
" A memoir ( 1865 ) gives the places and map of the solar lines beyond Gr , \#171 ; whereKirchhoff 's map terminates .
His spectroscope-arrangements are original .
He uses two 'astronomic telescopes ' ( probably of 3f-inch aper- " ture ) as collimator and observing-telescope , and a single bisulphide-of- " carbon prism of 60 ' .
The large aperture of the telescopes gives illumina- " tion enough to permit the use of a high magnifying-power ; and this compensates for a less dispersion* ; so that the apparatus showed all Kirchhoff 's " lines with great distinctness .
For extreme violet rays an image of the sun " was formed on the slit by an object-glass like that of the telescope .
The " metallic spectra were obtained , not by an induction-machine , but by the " voltaic discharge of a battery of 50 Bunsens between massive electrodes of " each metal .
It may be that in this way a higher temperature is attained " than by the induction-spark ( especially if Wilde 's instrument were substi- " tuted for the battery ) ; for he found that more lines , and of higher inten- " sity , were thus brought out than even by the large Ruhmkorff .
" He thus found in the solar spectrum^ 390 iron-lines more than were previously known .
He also found lines of manganese , and ascertained the " identity of the line h with the fourth hydrogen-line which he had previously discovered .
" In 1866 , he found that the lines A B , and some others , though " telluric , are not due to aqueous vapour ; for they are of undiminished " strength at 16 ' below zero of Fahrenheit , while the other telluric lines were " scarcely visible .
" In 1869 his researches on the solar spectrum contained determinations " of wave-lengths .
These were made by means of four gratings by Nobert , " celebrated for his microscopic test-lines .
These determinations appear " to be exceedingly accurate .
The intervals of the gratings were from " ytet to g- , and were determined with extreme care .
" They were compared by a microscope of 200 power , carried by a " dividing-engine carefully verified with a metre which had been compared " with the standard platinum one at the Conservatoire des Arts et Metiers .
" The corrections already mentioned for pressure , temperature , and aber\ferz found that , with a telescope of 4 inches aperture , and flint prism of the same " dimensions , 60 ' , the line between the two of D was visible .
" 122 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , " ration were attended to ; and in the measures of the deviations the 5th " and 6th spectra were generally taken ; his experience indicates that in " taking these measures it is best to have the intervals of the grating not " very close , but covering a surface of some magnitude : the deviations are " less , but the spectra brighter .
" The result of these measures is given in six beautiful maps , extending " from B to H2 .
The places of the lines are laid down on a scale , not of de-V viations , but of wave-lengths , in which the unit is a ten-millionth of a * !
millimetre .
" The advantage of this can scarcely be overrated ; for in other maps " the scale depends on the refractive indices of the prisms and their adjust- " ments , so that no two are comparable ; while at ordinary temperatures and ** pressures the wave-lengths are invariable .
" In addition to hydrogen he found in the sun thirteen metals , of which " titanium has 200 lines .
The total amount of metallic lines js nearly 800 , " including most of the strong lines ; so that probably the sun has few ele- " ments which are not found on our earth .
There are some strong lines " between E and G whose origin as yet is unknown ; one coincides with a " line of bromine , whose presence is not probable .
There are three strong " magnesium lines not present in the sun ; and oxygen , nitrogen , and carbon , " so common here , are not detected there .
He thinks the sun is not hot " enough to make the first two luminous ; carbon in the circuit of his battery *f shows no lines of its own , but those of its compounds .
He doubts " Pliicker 's notion of the same substance having different spectra , and " thinks that the change is merely due to the increased temperature , which " makes faint lines intense\#151 ; and is disposed to think that the pillar-like " appearance observed in some star-spectra indicates a lower temperature " than the black sharp lines which occur in others .
" The aurora and zodiacal light have in common a line ( \=5567 ) whose " origin is yet unknown .
" It must be admitted that this list is the exponent of intellectual power " of first-rate excellence , and of additions to our knowledge which are not " only intrinsically valuable , but are also eminently suggestive of ulterior " progress .
Nor can his claim to priority of entrance into this wondrous " region be disputed by any unprejudiced judge .
Though Stokes and Thom- " son nearly at the same time drew the same conclusion as to absorption , and even satisfied themselves of the identity of D with the sodium lines\#151 ; " though Stewart , and still more successfully Kirch hoff , again brought it " before the public three years after , yet this is what happens to every " inventor or discoverer : others follow in his track , some perhaps more " successfully than himself ; but his right remains untouched .
" The ' Porcupine * having been again placed by the Admiralty ( for three months of the summer of 1870 ) at the disposal of the physicists and naturalists engaged in researches on the temperature of the sea at great depths , and on the nature of the sea-bottom and of the life existing in its President 's Address .
1870 .
] vicinity , the coasts of Spain and Portugal and of the Mediterranean have been the fields of exploration in the present year .
As the results will form the subject of a communication to the Society at its next Evening Meeting , I abstain from adverting on the present occasion to any of the interesting particulars with which Dr. Carpenter and Mr. Gwyn Jeffreys have been so obliging as to furnish me .
Her Majesty 's Government having been pleased to accede to a request made by a Joint Committee of the Royal and of the Royal Astronomical Societies , for means of conveyance to and from Cadiz and Gibraltar of twenty-five persons desirous of observing the Total Solar Eclipse on the 21st December 1870 , and for a sum not exceeding .\#163 ; 3000 to defray cost of instruments , travelling-expenses of the scientific party , and other miscellaneous services and purposes connected therewith , the necessary arrangements have been confided to an organizing Committee , under the immediate direction of the Astronomer Royal , and are now in progress .
You are perhaps aware that your President occupies , as such , an official seat in the Board of Trustees of the British Museum .
In attending to these duties , I became impressed with the benefits which might result if objects , for the exhibition of which space cannot be found at the British Museum\#151 ; and most especially specimens of natural history\#151 ; were freely lent , under suitable regulations for their safe custody and safe return when required , to Provincial Museums .
For this purpose it would be necessary to introduce a modification in the Act of Parliament , under which the Trustees are now bound not to permit the removal from the Museum of any article which has been once received into it .
I have made this suggestion known in different quarters , and have found it , generally speaking , so favourably received , that I even thought it possible that I might be able on this occasion to inform you that some advance had been made in its actual realization .
I can only say at present that some steps have been taken in that direction , which , I hope , may yet bear fruit .
I proceed to the award of the Medals .
The Copley Medal has been awarded to Mr. James Prescott Joule , for his Experimental Researches on Heat .
The researches , for which the Copley Medal has thus been awarded , are the same for which a Royal Medal was awarded to Mr. Joule in the year 1850 .
The terms of the award in 1850 were for " his Researches on the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat ; " those on the present occasion were for his " Experimental Researches on Heat .
" Both awards refer to the same experiments , and are substantially for the same great step in Natural Philosophy ; of which , therefore , it is needless for me to give you an account at this time .
You are all aware that by it a great principle has been added to the sum of human knowledge\#151 ; one fruitful in consequences in a thousand ways , and which , being accepted amongst undisputed truths , is now em124 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , bodied , without question , alike in the most wide-ranging speculations and the most matter-of-fact practice .
The award of two Medals for the same researches is an exceedingly rare proceeding in our Society , and rightly so .
The Council have on this occasion desired to mark by it , in the most emphatic manner , their sense of the special and original character , and high desert of Mr. Joule 's discovery .
No words of mine could add to the value of the award .
Mr. Joule , I present you with this Medal , in testimony of the very high sense which the Royal Society entertains of your researches , and of the results to which they have led .
The Council has awarded a Royal Medal to Professor William Hallowes Miller , Foreign Secretary of the Royal Society , for his researches and writings on Mineralogy and Crystallography , and for his scientific labours in the restoration of the National Standard of Weight .
These last-named labours appeared to me to have , from their national importance conjoined with great scientific merit , so peculiar a claim to a Royal Medal , that it was preeminently on this ground that I ventured myself to propose the award ; and for the same reason I have obtained permission from the Astronomer Royal , who is the Chairman of the Standards Commission , to give here in full a statement from his pen , in which , as a Member of that Commission , I most entirely concur .
" For full explanation of the considerations which have guided the Council " in awarding a Royal Medal to Professor Miller , it appears necessary to " advert to some circumstances occurring at a time anterior to that which is " recognized as limiting the claims that can be examined in reference to the " award of a Medal .
When , after the fire which destroyed the Houses of " Parliament , it was ascertained that the National Standards of Length and " Weight ( then preserved in the Parliament-buildings ) were entirely ruined , " a Commission was appointed to consider the questions connected with the " Restoration of the Standards .
Although Professor Miller was not a \#171 ; Member of that Commission , his friendly assistance contributed greatly to " guide the Commission in some of their more important recommendations , ** especially in those which related to the means to be provided for con-.** tingent restoration of the Standard of Weight .
The Commission proposed " in their Report ( among a number of less conspicuous regulations ) , the " repeal of the law providing a physical principle of restoration of the " standards , substituting for it a reference to existing copies , and the esta- " blishment of a Department of Standards .
A Commission was then ap- " pointed for construction of the New National Standards ; and the services ** of Professor Miller , as Member of this Commission , were invaluable .
His " paper in the Philosophical Transactions , describing the operations for re- " storing the value of the Old Standard of Weight , for constructing the New " Standard of a different value , for constructing various derived Standards , Presidents Address .
1870 .
] " and for establishing the relative value of the.kilograuime , will long be " cited as a model of accuracy .
To this , however , I refer at the present " time as introductory to the strict subject of this Medal .
" At length the principal object for which the successive Commissions " ( and none of the Members more strongly than Professor Miller ) had for " so many years so earnestly contended , namely the establishment of a De- " partment of Standards as a substantive branch of the Government ( subor- " dinate to the Board of Trade ) , was attained .
And , nearly at the same " time , a new Royal Commission , of which Professor Miller was a member , " was appointed for examining and reporting on the state of the Secondary " Standards , and for considering every question which could affect the Pri- " mary , Secondary , and Local Standards .
As Head of the new Department , " the Government were most fortunate in being able to avail themselves of " the talent and energy of Mr. H. W. Chisholm ; and to the cordial co- " operation of Professor Miller and Mr. Chisholm , principally in regard to " the questions of Weights , but also on many points applying to lengths " and capacities , is to be ascribed in great measure a result which ( in the " hope of Professor Miller 's colleagues ) will prove to be an important legislative success .
Without the extensive knowledge and the long experience " of Professor Miller this result could not have been expected .
The field of " labour was very wide ; not only were the state of Standards of all degrees " of subordination , and the legislation respecting them , to be considered , but " the Commission and Professor Miller , in a high degree , had the serious " and responsible charge of offering to the Government their matured opi-"nions on the grave questions of introduction of Metric System , abrogation " of Troy Weight , and future arrangement of the entire system of British " Standards .
It is believed that the fruits of these labours may be correctly " stated as:\#151 ; the establishment of an office which for accuracy of standards " and perfection in the methods of using them , may compare favourably " with any in the world ; the indication of the best direction of legislation " in establishment of regulations for their national utility ; and the expo- " sition of the broad views which may advantageously be adopted by nations , " especially by Britain , in deciding on the course to be followed under the " competing claims of different systems .
For this presumed success the " country is greatly indebted to the ability , the science , and the incessant " attention of Professor Miller .
" Though in awarding the Royal Medal to Professor Miller it was naturally impossible not to advert to them , I am not prepared to give you any corresponding account of those researches in Mineralogy and Crystallography which , having been prosecuted for more than thirty years , have gained for him the highest reputation wherever those departments of knowledge are cultivated throughout the world , and have accordingly been translated into different European languages .
Professor Miller , It is with very great pleasure that I present you with this Medal , in VOL , XIX .
L 126 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , recognition of the valuable services which you have rendered to your country , as well as to science .
The Council ha % awarded a Royal medal to Mr. Thomas Davidson , for his works on the 'Recent and Fossil Brachiopoda , ' more especially for his series of monographs in the publications of the Palseontographical Society .
The publications referred to in this award extend over a period of twenty-three years , viz. from 1847 to 1870 ; the plates which illustrate these works have been drawn by himself upon stone , and freely presented to the different Societies which have published his writings .
Mr. Davidson , I have the pleasure of presenting this Medal to you in testimony of the value which the Royal Society attaches to your writings on British and Foreign Brachiopoda The Council has awarded the Rumford Medal to Monsieur Alfred Olivier Des Cloizeaux , for his researches in Mineralogical Optics .
For nearly thirty years M. Des Cloizeaux has been occupied in investigating the characters of crystallized bodies , and more especially those which are produced by their action upon light .
He has subjected nearly 500 crystalline species to an optical scrutiny , determining the ratio of the velocity of light of various colours in air to its velocity in the direction of each of the axes of optical elasticity within the crystal , the angle between the optic axes in biaxial crystals , and the dispersion of the optic axes .
The results of these observations are published in vols .
xi .
and xiv .
of the * An-nales des Mines , ' and in vol. xviii .
of the ' Memoires des Savants Etrangers ' .
Assuming the truth of the laws connecting the optical properties of a crystal and its system of crystallization established by Sir David Brewster , he has applied them to correct the descriptions of mineral species , by the methods detailed in his * Memoire sur l'emploi du microscope polarisant et sur l'\amp ; ude des proprietes optiques bir^fringentes propres a determiner le systbme crystallin dans les cristaux naturels ou artificiels .
' Numerous instances of these corrected descriptions occur in the * Comptes Rendus , ' the ' Annales de Chimie , ' the 'Annales des Mines , ' the 'Transactions of the Royal Society ' for 1868 , and in his ' Treatise on Mineralogy .
' While investigating the effect of heat in modifying the action of crystalline bodies , he observed that the positions of the optic axes of felspar , chrysoberyl , and brookite changed on the application of heat , returning to their original positions when the crystal regained its initial temperature , as indeed was known before in the case of felspar ; but on increasing the temperature beyond a certain limit , he made the very unexpected discovery that the positions of the optic axes were permanently altered .
Thus in felspar the permanent change occurs at a low red heat , or at about 600 ' C. M. Des Cloizeaux exhibited this experiment in the presence of the Chemical Section of the British Association at the Meeting held in Cambridge President 's Address .
1870 .
] in 1862 .
This discovery leads to a conclusion of great importance to the geologist .
The optic axes of a crystal of felspar serve as the index of a self-registering thermometer , and show that the crystal had never been exposed to a temperature reaching to 600 ' C. Circular polarization was first discovered in quartz by Arago in 1811 , and in chlorate of soda , bromate of soda , and acetate of uranium and soda , all three belonging to the cubic system , by Marbach in 1854 .
In 1857 M. Des Cloizeaux detected its existence in cinnabar , producing a rotation of a plane-polarized beam , sometimes to the right , sometimes to the left , to from 15 to 17 times the angle of rotation due to an equal thickness of quartz , \#151 ; and also , nearly at the same time , in sulphate of strychnine with 13 combining-weights of water , a crystal belonging to the pyramidal system , the rotation , in one direction only ( Herschel 's right-handed rotation ) , the same as that of its solution , and about half as great as in an equal thickness of quartz .
In February 1869 M. Des Cloizeaux discovered that benzile ( C14H10 O2 ) , a compound obtained by Laurent from the essence of bitter almonds in 1835 , in crystals belonging to the rhombohedral system , produced a rotation a little greater than that of quartz .
The crystals which came first into his possession were all dex-trogyre ; but he has lately obtained some producing a rotation in the opposite direction .
In his memoir on the Crystallization and Internal Construction of Quartz he has largely employed the method of exploration by polarized light .
During the summers of 1845 and 1846 he paid two visits to Iceland , in one of which , conjointly with M. Bunsen , he determined the temperatures , at different depths , of the great Geyser and the Strokkur , with the view of discovering the source of their heat , and the cause of the eruptions .
Any remarks on his very numerous and valuable determinations of the forms of crystalline species , as well as on the geological observations made by him in Iceland , would be obviously out of place in a summary of the researches on light and heat which render him eligible as a recipient of the Rumford Medal .
Professor Miller , In Monsieur Des Cloizeaux 's unavoidable absence , I request you , as our Foreign Secretary , to convey to him this Medal , in recognition of the value which the Royal Society attaches to his researches .
Gentlemen , If elected for the year which commences this day , and if I should be able to meet you here at your next anniversary , it will be to deliver over this Chair , doubtless to a younger , it may well be to a worthier occupant ^ it can hardly be to one having the welfare of the Royal Society more warmly at heart .

