List of Candidates for Election .
29 tact with the digestive cavity , and solution of the tissues proceeds outwards .
7 .
The ruptured surfaces are at once covered up by the intestinal outgrowth , and by the proliferation of the subjacent connective tissue .
8 .
The connective tissues all along the zone of fission multiply in order to aid in the healing of the fragments .
9 .
The intestinal epithelium changes in character as it takes up its new external position .
10 .
The whole process of fission has evident relationships to the process of sexual reproduction .
2Iarch 4 , 1897 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for themIn pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates for election into the Society were read , as follows:\#151 ; Allen , Alfred Henry , F.C.S. Baker , H. Brereton , M.A. Barrett , Professor W. F. , F.R.S.E. Beevor , Charles Edward , M.D. Bell , Robei't , LL. D. Benham , William Blaxland , D.Sc .
Binnie , Alexander Richardson , Mem. Inst. C.E. Broad bent , Sir William Henrv , Bart. Brown , Professor Ernest William .
Budge , Ernest A. Wallis , D.Litt .
Burch , George James , M.A. Callaway , Charles , D.Sc .
Cardew , Philip , Major , R.E. Chree , Charles , M.A. Corfield , William Henry , M.D. Crookshank , Professor Edgar March , M.B. Dixon , Professor Alfred Cardevv , M.A. Dresser , Henry Bales . !
Edgeworth , Francis Ysidro , M.A. Elwes , Henry John , F.L.S. Etheridge , Robert , F.G.S. Gamble , James Sykes , M.A. Gray , Professor Thomas , B.Sc. Haddon , Alfred Cort , M.A. Haldane , John Scott , M.D. Harcourt , Leveson Francis Vernon , M.Inst .
C.E. Harmer , Sidney Frederic , M.A. Haswell , Professor William A. , I D.Sc .
Head , Henry , M.D. Howes , Professor George Bond , F.L.S. Kantliack , A. A. , M.D. Kipping , F. Stanley , D.Sc .
Lansdell , Rev. Henry , D.D. Lewes , Professor Vivian B. , F.C.S. Proceedings and List of Papers read .
Lewis , W.Bevan , F.R.C.S. McConnell , James F. P. , Surgeon-Major .
McMahon , Lieutenant - General Charles Alexander .
Mallock , Henry Reginald Arnulph .
Mansergh , James , M.Inst .
C.E. Martin , John Biddulph , M.A. Mathews , George Ballard , M.A. Matthey , Edward , F.C.S. Mill , Hugh Robert , D.Sc .
Morgan , Professor Conroy Lloyd , F.G.S. Muir , Thomas , M.A. Murray , George Robert Milne , F.L.S. Neville , Francis Henry , M.A. Nicholson , Professor H. Alleyne , M.D. Notter , James Lane , Surgeon-Lieut.-Col .
Oliver , John Ryder , Major-Gen .
, R.A. Preston , Professor Thomas , M.A. Rambaut , Professor Arthur A. , M.A. !
Reid , Clement , F.G.S. | Reid , Professor Edward Way-| mouth , M.B. Salomons , Sir David , M.A. Scott , Alexander , M.A. Seward , Albert Charles , M.A. Shenstone , William Ash well , F.I.C. Smith , Professor William Robert , .
M.D. Tanner , Professor Henry William Lloyd , M.A. Tatham , John F. W. , M.R.C.P. Taylor , Henry Martyn .
Thomson , Professor John Millar , .
F.C.S. Trouton , Professor Frederick Thomas , M.A. Turnex1 , Professor Herbert Hall , M.A. Walker , Professor James , D.Sc .
Waterhouse , James , Colonel .
Whymper , Edward , F.R.G.S. Wimshurst , James .
Windle , Bertram Coghill Allen , M.D. Woodhead , German Sims , M.D. Pursuant to notice , M. E. Amagat , Professor F. Cohn , Professor J. Willard Gibbs , Professor R. P. H. Heidenhain , and Dr. R. Koch were balloted for and elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Experiments on the Absence of Mechanical Connection between Ether and Matter , " By Oliver Lodge , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , University College , Liverpool .
II .
" Second Report on a Series of Specimens of the Deposits of the Nile Delta , obtained by Boring Operations undertaken by the Royal Society .
" By John W. Judd , C.B. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the Royal College of Science .
III .
" The Palaeolithic Deposits at Hitchin and their Relation to the Glacial Epoch .
" By Clement Reid .
, F.L.S. , F.G.S. , of the Geological Survey of the United Kingdom .
Communicated by Sir Archibald Geikie , F.R.S. Absence of Mechanical Connection between Ether and Matter .
31 IV .
" Luminosity and Photometry .
" By John Berry Haycraft , .
M.D. , University College , Cardiff .
Communicated by Professor Schafer , F.R.S. " Experiments on the Absence of Mechanical Connection between Ether and Matter .
" By Oliver Lodge , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , University College , Liverpool .
Received January 19 , \#151 ; Read March 4 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The author gives an abbreviated account of a long series of experiments conducted by himself and his assistant , Mr. Davies , in continuation of those related in 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , 1893 ( Aberration Problems , \amp ; c. ) .
The method consists in bifurcating a beam of light , , and sending each half in opposite directions round a closed periphery very near a rapidly rotating mass of matter , and then observing by means of interference fringes whether the velocity of light is affected in the slightest degree by this neighbourhood of moving matter .
The steel disks have been now whirled to higher speeds , chiefly at 3000 revolutions a minute ; the steadiness of the machine and the definition of the bands have been improved , other minor improvements have been made , and a long series of micrometric readings have been taken , both at increasing and at decreasing speeds .
Further , the steel disks have been replaced by a much more massive lump of iron , weighing f ton , with a narrower channel for the light to travel in ; and the bands have been observed close up to the moving surface , and even when reflected in it .
The rotation was also continued for some hours to see if by chance time had any influence .
Moreover , the iron mass was strongly magnetised by a steady current , so that the light travelled across a moving magnetic field ; and lastly the steel disks were replaced , with an insulated third disk between them , and strongly electrified , so that the beam of light travelled across a moving electrostatic field .
After a number of spurious disturbances had been gradually eliminated , the author-finds that in none of these ways is the velocity of light at all appreciably affected , and accordingly concludes that there is no viscous connexion between the ether and matter of observable magnitude ; i.e. , that whatever motion moving matter may confer upon the ether must be of an irrotational kind .
It was demonstrated theoretically in the previous memoir that no optical experiments could be competent to detect motion of this latter character , and accordingly no attempt has

