878 .
] Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on Fog-Signcds .
245 t all .
This difference may , perhaps , explain why metals conduct so much better than glass , \amp ; c. II .
" Recent Experiments on Fog-Signals .
" By Dr. Tyndall , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Received March 14 , 1878 .
Our most intense coast-lights , including the six-wick lamp , the Vlgham gas-light , and the electric light , being intended to aid the mariner in heavy weather , may be regarded , in a certain sense , as mg-signals .
But fog , when thick , is intractable to light ; the sun annot penetrate it , much less any terrestrial source .of illumination , fence the necessity of employing sound-signals in dense fogs .
Bells , .ongs , horns , guns , and sirens have been used for this purpose ; but t is mainly , if not wholly , explosive signals that I have now to ubmit to the notice of the Society .
During the long , laborious , nd , I venture to think , memorable series of observations conducted nder the auspices of the Elder Brethren of the Trinity House at the South Foreland in 1872 and 1873 , it was proved that a short 5^-inch owitzer , firing 3 lbs. of powder , yielded a louder report than a long 8-pounder firing the same charge .
Here was a hint to be acted n by the Elder Brethren .
The effectiveness of the sound depended n the shape of the gun , and as it could not be assumed that in the lowitzer we had hit accidentally upon the best possible shape , arrangements were made with the War Office for the construction of a gun pecially calculated to produce the loudest sound attainable from the ombustion of 3 lbs. of powder .
To prevent the unnecessary landward / aste of the sound , the gun was furnished with a parabolic muzzle , ntended to project the sound over the sea , where it was most needed , 'he construction of this gun was based on a searching series of ex-teriments executed at Woolwich with small models , provided with muzzles of various kinds .
The gun was constructed on the principle \gt ; f the revolver , its various chambers being loaded and brought in apid succession into the firing position .
The performance of the gun .roved the correctness of the principles on which its construction was .ased .
It had been a widely spread opinion among artillerists , that a bronze pm emits a specially loud report .
I doubted from the outset whether his would help us , and in a letter dated 22nd April , 1874 , ventured o express myself thus :\#166 ; \#151 ; " The report of a gun , as affecting an observer lose at hand , is made up of two factors\#151 ; the sound due to the shock \#187 ; f the air by the violently expanding gas , and the sound derived from he vibrations of the gun , which , to some extent , rings like a bell .
Ihis latter , I apprehend , will disappear at considerable distances .
" 246 Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on Fog-Signals .
[ Mar. 21 , The result of subsequent trial , as reported by General Campbell , ig , " that the sonorous qualities of bronze are greatly superior to those of cast-iron at short distances , but that the advantage lies with the baser metal at long ranges .
" * Coincident with these early trials of guns at Woolwich guncotton was thought of as a probably effective sound-producer .
Theoretic considerations caused me to fix my attention persistently on this substance ; for the remarkable experiments of Mr. Abel , whereby its rapidity of combustion and violently explosive energy are demonstrated , seemed to single it out as a substance eminently calculated to fulfil the conditions necessary to the production of an intense wave of sound .
What those conditions are we shall now more particularly inquire , calling to our aid a brief but very remarkable paper , published by Professor Stokes in the " Philosophical Magazine " for 1868 .
The explosive force of gunpowder is known to depend on the sudden conversion of a solid body into an intensely heated gas .
The work which the artillerist requires the expanding gas to perform is the displacement of the projectile .
Such , however , is not the work that we want our gunpowder to perform .
We wish it to transmute its energy not into the mere mechanical translation of the shot , but into vibratory motion .
We want pulses to be formed which shall propagate themselves to vast distances through the atmosphere , and this requires a certain choice and management of the explosive material .
A sound pulse consists essentially of two parts\#151 ; a condensation and a rarefaction .
Now air is a very mobile fluid , and if the shock imparted to it lack due promptness , the pulse is not produced .
Consider the case of a common clock pendulum , which oscillates to and fro , and which therefore might be expected to generate corresponding pulses in the air .
When , for example , the bob moves to the right , the air to the right of it might be supposed to be condensed , while a partial vacuum might be supposed to follow the bob .
As a matter of fact , we have nothing of this kind .
The air particles in front of the bob retreat so rapidly , and those behind it close so rapidly in , that no sound-pulse is formed .
A tuning-fork which executes 256 complete vibrations in a second , if struck gently on a pad and held in free air , emits a scarcely audible note .
It behaves to some extent like the pendulum bob .
This feebleness is due to the prompt " reciprocating flow " of the air between the incipient condensations and rarefactions , whereby the formation of sound-pulses is forestalled .
Stokes , however , has taught us that this flow may be intercepted by placing the * General Campbell assigns a true cause for this difference .
The ring of the bronie j gun represents so much energy withdrawn from the explosive force of the gun- , powder .
Further experiments would , however , be needed to place the superiority of the cast-iron gun at a distance beyond question .
878 .
] Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on Fog-Signals .
247 dge of a card in close proximity to one of the corners of the fork .
Ln immediate augmentation of the sound of the fork is the con-equence .
The more rapid the shock imparted to the air , the greater is the ractional pa^t of the energy of the shock converted into wave motion .
Lnd as different kinds of gunpowder vary considerably in their apidity of combustion , it may be expected that they will also vary as roducers of sound .
This theoretic inference is completely verified \gt ; y experiment .
In a series of preliminary trials conducted at Woolwich on the 4th of June , 1875 , the sound-producing powers of four iifferent kinds of powder were determined .
In the order of size of 'rain they bear the names respectively of Pine-grain ( F.G. ) , Large- , frain ( L.G. ) , Rifle Large-grain ( R.L.G. ) , and Pebble-powder ( P. ) .
Lhe charge in each case amounted to 4\#177 ; - lbs. ; four 24-pound howitzers jeing employed to fire the respective charges .
There were eleven Observers , all of whom , without a single dissentient , pronounced the ound of the fine-grain powder loudest of all .
In the opinion of seven \gt ; f the eleven the large-grain powder came next ; seven also of the \gt ; leven placed the rifle large-grain third on the list ; while they were igain unanimous in pronouncing the pebble-powder the worst sound-producer .
These differences are entirely due to differences in the .apidity of combustion .
All who have witnessed the performance of 'he 80-ton gun at Woolwich must have been surprised at the mild-aess of its thunder .
To avoid the strain resulting from quick com-Dustion , the powder employed is composed of lumps far larger than those of the pebble-powder above referred to .
In the long tube of the ?
un these lumps of solid matter gradually resolve themselves into gas , which on issuing from the muzzle imparts a kind of push to the air , instead of the sharp shock necessary to form the condensation of an intensely sonorous wave .
These are some of the physical reasons why gun-cotton might be regarded as a promising fog-signal .
Firing it as we have been taught to do by Mr. Abel , its explosion is more rapid than that of gunpowder .
In its case the air particles , alert as they are , will not , it might be presumed , be able to slip from places of condensation to places of rarefaction with a rapidity sufficient to forestall the formation of the wave .
On a priori grounds then , we are entitled to infer the effectiveness of gun-cotton , while in a great number of comparative experiments , stretching from 1874 to the present time , this inference has been verified in the most conclusive manner .
As regards explosive material , and zealous and accomplished help in the use of it , the resources of Woolwich Arsenal have been freely placed at the disposal of the Elder Brethren .
General Campbell , General Younghusband , Colonel Fraser , Colonel Maitland , and other officers , have taken an active personal part in the investigation , and in 248 Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on Fog-Signals .
[ Mar. 21 , most cases have incurred the labour of reducing and reporting on the observations .
Guns of various forms and sizes have been invoked for gunpowder , while gun-cotton has been fired in free air , and in the foci of parabolic reflectors .
On the 22nd of February , 1875 , a number of small guns , cast specially for the purpose\#151 ; some with plain , some with conical , and some with parabolic muzzles , firing 4 oz. of fine-grain powder , were pitted against 4 oz. of gun-cotton , detonated both in the open and in the focus of a parabolic reflector.* The sound produced by the guncotton , reinforced by the reflector , was unanimously pronounced loudest of all .
With equal unanimity , the gun-cotton detonated in free air was placed second in intensity .
Though the same charge was used throughout , the guns differed notably among themselves , but none of them came up to the gun-cotton , either with or without the reflector .
A second series , observed from a different distance on the same day , confirmed to the letter the foregoing result .
As a practical point , however , the comparative cost of gun cotton and gunpowder has to be taken into account , though considerations of cost ought not to be stretched too far in cases involving the safety of human life .
In the earlier experiments , where quantities of equal price were pitted against each other , the results were somewhat fluctuating .
Indeed , the perfect manipulation of the guncotton required some preliminary discipline\#151 ; promptness , certainty , and effectiveness of firing , augmenting as experience increased .
As lib. of gun-cotton costs as much as 3 lbs. of gunpowder , these quantities were compared together on the 22nd of February .
The guns employed to discharge the gunpowder were a 12-lb .
brass howitzer , a 24-lb .
cast-iron howitzer , and the long 18-pounder used at the South Foreland .
The result recorded is , that the 24-lb .
howitzer , firing 3 lbs. of gunpowder , had a slight advantage over 1 lb. of gun-cotton detonated in the open ; while the 12-lb .
howitzer and the 18-pounder were both beaten by the gun-cotton .
On the 2nd of May , on the other hand , the gun-cotton is reported as having been beaten by all the guns .
Meanwhile , the parabolic muzzle-gun , expressly intended for fogsignalling , was pushed rapidly forward , and on the 22nd and 23rd of March , 1876 , its power was tested at Shoeburyness .
Pitted against it were a 16-pounder , a 5^-inch howitzer , 1^ lb. of gun-cotton detonated in the focus of a reflector , and 1|- lb. of gun-cotton detonated in free air .
On this occasion , nineteen different series of experiments were made , when the new experimental gun , firing a 3-lb .
charge , demonstrated its superiority over all guns previously employed to fire the same charge .
As regards the comparative merits of the gun-cotton fired in * For charges of this weight the reflector is of moderate size , and may be employed without fear of fracture .
1878 .
] Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on Fog-Signals .
249 he open , and the gunpowder fired from the new gun , the mean values f their sounds were found to be the same .
Fired in the focus of the eflector , the gun-cotton clearly dominated over all the other sound-\gt ; roducers.# The whole of the observations here referred to were embraced by in angle of about 70 ' , of which 50 ' lay on the one side and 20 ' on the ither side of the line of fire .
The shots were heard by eleven observers n board the " Galatea , " which took up positions varying from 2 miles o 13| miles from the firing-point.- In all these observations , the rein-orcing action of the reflector , and of the parabolic muzzle of the gun , am into play .
But the reinforcement of the sound in one direction mplies its withdrawal from some other direction , and accordingly it was ound that at a distance of 5|- miles from the firing-point , and on a line ncluding nearly an angle of 90 ' with the line of fire , the gun-cotton n the open beat the new gun ; while behind the station , at distances \gt ; f 8| miles and 13\#163 ; miles respectively , the gun-cotton in the open )eat both the gun and thie gun-cotton in the reflector .
This result is .endered more important by the fact that the sound reached the Mucking Light , a distance of 13\#163 ; miles , against a light wind which vas blowing at the time .
Most , if not all , of our ordinary sound-producers send forth waves which are not of uniform intensity throughout .
A trumpet is loudest n the direction of its axis .
The same is true of a gun .
A bell , with ts mouth pointed upwards or downwards , sends forth waves far lenser in the horizontal plane passing through the bell than at an mgular distance of 90 ' from that plane .
The oldest bellhangers must have been aware of the fact that the sides of the bell , and not ts mouth , emitted the strongest sound , their practice being deter-nined by this knowledge .
Our slabs of gun-cotton also emit waves )f different densities in different parts .
It has occurred in the experiments at Shoeburyness that when the broad side of a slab was turned so wards the suspending wire of a second slab six feet distant , the wire vas cut by the explosion , while when the edge of the slab was turned r-o the wire this never occurred .
To the circumstance that the broadsides of the slabs faced the sea is probably to be ascribed the remarkable fact observed on the 23rd March , that in two directions , not far removed from the line of fire , the gun-cotton detonated in the open had a slight advantage over the new gun .
Theoretic considerations rendered it probable that the shape and size of the exploding mass would affect the constitution of the wave of sound .
I did not think large rectangular slabs the most favourable shape , and accordingly proposed cutting a large slab into fragments of different sizes , and pitting them against each other .
The differences m h1 this case the reflector was fractured by the explosion , but it did good service after fracture .
250 Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on Fog-Signals .
[ Mar. 21 , between the sounds were by no means so great as the differences in the quantities of explosive material might lead one to expect .
The mean values of eighteen series of observations made on board the " Galatea , " at distances varying from If mile to 4'8 miles , were as follows :\#151 ; Weights ... ... ... ... 4-oz .
6-oz .
9-oz .
12-oz .
7-oz .
Rocket .
" Value of sound ... ... 3 '12 3 '34 4 '0 4 '03 3 '35 These charges were cut from a slab of dry gun-cotton about If inch thick : they were squares and rectangles of the following dimensions : \#151 ; 4 oz. , 2 inches by 2 inches ; 6 oz. , 2 inches by 3 inches ; 9 oz. , 3 inches by 3 inches ; 12 oz. , 2 inches by 6 inches .
The numbers under the respective weights express the recorded value of the sounds .
They must be simply taken as a ready means of expressing the approximate relative intensity of the sounds as estimated by the ear .
When we find a 9-oz .
charge marked 4 , and a 12-oz .
charge marked 4'03 , the two sounds may be regarded as practically equal in intensity , an addition of 30 per cent , in the larger charges producing no sensible difference in the sound .
Were the sounds estimated by some physical means , instead of by the ear , the values of the sounds would not , in my opinion , show a greater advance with the increase of material than that indicated by the foregoing numbers .
Subsequent experiments rendered still more certain the effectiveness , as well as the economy , of small charges of guncotton .
It is an obvious corollary from the foregoing experiments that on our " nesses " and promontories , where the land is clasped on both sides for a considerable distance by the sea\#151 ; where , therefore , the sound has to propagate itself rearward as well as forward\#151 ; the use of the parabolic gun , or of the parabolic reflector might be a disadvantage rather than an advantage .
Here gun-cotton , ' exploded in the open , forms a most appropriate source of sound .
This remark is especially applicable to such lightships as are intended to spread the sound all round them as from central foci .
As a signal in rock lighthouses , where neither syren , steam-whistle , nor gun could be mounted , and as a handy fleet-signal , dispensing with the lumber of special signal-guns , the gun-cotton will prove invaluable .
But in most of these cases we have the drawback that local damage may be done by the explosion .
The lantern of the rock-lighthouse might suffer from .concussion near at hand , and though mechanical arrangements might be devised , both in the case of the lighthouse and of the ship 's deck , to place the firing-point of the gun-cotton at a safe distance , no such arrangement could compete , as regards simplicity and effectiveness , with the expedient of a gun-cotton rochet .
Had such a means of signalling existed at the Bishop 's Bock Lighthouse the ill-fated Schiller might have been warned of her approach to danger ten , or it may be L878 .
] Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on Fog-Signals .
251 twenty , miles before sbe reached the rock which wrecked her .
Had he fleet possessed such a signal , instead of the ubiquitous but ineffectual whistle , the " Iron Duke " and " Vanguard " need never have come into collision .
It was the necessity of providing a suitable signal for rock lighthouses , and of clearing obstacles which cast an acoustic shadow , that suggested the idea of the gun-cotton rocket to Sir Richard Collinson , Deputy Master of the Trinity House .
That idea was to place a disk or short cylinder of the gun-cotton , in the head of a rocket , the ascensional force of which should be employed to carry the disk to an elevation of 1,000 feet or thereabouts , where by the ignition of a fuse associated with a detonator , the gun-cotton should be fired , sending its sound in all directions vertically and obliquely down upon earth and sea .
The first attempt to realize this idea was made on the 18th of July , 1876 , at the fire-work manufactory of the Messrs. Brock , at Nunhead .
Eight rockets were then fired , four being charged with 5 oz. and four with 7%oz .
of gun-cotton .
They ascended to a great height , and exploded with a very loud report in the air .
On the 27th of July , the rockets were tried at Shoeburyness , the most noteworthy result on this occasion being the hearing of the rockets at the Mouse Lighthouse , 8\#163 ; miles E. by S. , and at the Chapman Lighthouse , 85 miles W. by N. ; that is to say , at opposite sides of the firing-point .
It is worthy of remark that , in the case of the Chapman Lighthouse , land and trees intervened between the firing-point and the place of observation .
" This , " as General Younghusband justly remarked at the time , " may prove to be a valuable consideration if it should be found necessary to place a signal station in a position whence the sea could not be freely observed .
" Indeed , the clearing of such obstacles was one of the objects which the inventor of the rocket had in view .
On the 13th of December , 1876 , and again on the 8th of March , 1877 , comparative experiments on firing at high and low elevations were executed .
The gun-cotton near the ground consisted of -j-lb .
disks suspended from a horizontal iron bar about 4J- feet above the ground .
The rockets carried the same quantity of gun-cotton in their heads , and the height to which they attained , as determined by a theodolite , was from 800 to 900 feet .
The latter day was cold , with occasional squalls of snow and hail , the direction of the sound being at right angles to that of the wind .
Five series of observations were made on board the " Vestal , " at distances varying from 3 to 6 miles .
The mean value of the explosions in the air exceeded that of the explosions near the ground by a small but sensible quantity .
At Windmill Hill , Gravesend , however , which was nearly to leeward , and 5^ miles from the firing-point , in nineteen cases out of twenty-four the disk fired near the ground was loudest ; while in the remaining five the rocket had the advantage .
Towards the VOL. xxvil . .
s 252 Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on Fog-Signals .
[ Mar. 21 , close of the day the atmosphere became very serene .
A few distant cumuli sailed near the horizon , but the zenith and a vast angular space all round it were absolutely free from cloud .
From the deck of the " Galatea " a rocket was discharged , which reached a great elevation , and exploded with a loud report .
Following this solid nucleus of sound was a continuous train of echoes , which retreated to a continually greater distance , dying gradually off into silence after seven seconds ' duration .
These echoes were of the same character as those so frequently noticed at the South Foreland in 1872-73 , and called by me " aerial echoes .
" On the 23rd of March the experiments were resumed , the most noteworthy results of that day 's observations being that the sounds were heard at Tillingham , 10 miles to the N.E. ; at West Mersea , 15f miles to the N.E. by E. ; at Brightlingsea , 17^ miles to the N.E. ; and at Clacton Wash , 20^ miles to the N.E. by -g- E. The wind was blowing at the time from the S.E. Some of these sounds were produced by rockets , some by a 24-lb , howitzer , and some by an 8-inch Maroon .
In December , 1876 , Mr. Gardiner , the managing director of the Cotton-powder Company , had proposed a trial of this material against the gun-cotton .
The density of the cotton he urged was only 1*03 , while that of the powder was 1*70 .
A greater quantity of explosive material being thus compressed into the same volume , Mr. Gardiner thought that a greater sonorous effect must be produced by the powder .
At the instance of Mr. Mackie , who had been in communication previously with the Deputy Master of the Trinity House and myself , a Committee of the Elder Brethren visited the cotton-powder manufactory , on the banks of the Swale , near Faversham , on the 16th of June , 1877 .
The weights of cotton-powder employed were 2 oz. , 8 oz. , 1 lb. , and 2 lbs. , in the form of rockets and of signals fired a few feet above the ground .
The experiments throughout were arranged and conducted by Mr. Mackie .
Our desire on this occasion was to get as near to windward as possible , but the Swale and other obstacles limited our distance to lg mile .
We stood here E.S.E. from the firing-point while the wind blew fresh from the N.E. The cotton-powder yielded a very effective report .
The rockets in general had a slight advantage over the same quantities of material fired near the ground .
The loudness of the sound was by no means proportional to the quantity of the material exploded , 8 oz. yielding very nearly as loud a report as 1 lb. The " aerial echoes , " which invariably followed the explosion of the rockets , were loud and long-continued , shading off , as in all previous cases , by imperceptible gradations into silence .
On the 17th of October , 1877 , another series of experiments with howitzers and rockets was carried out at Shoeburyness .
The charge of the howitzer was 3 lbs. of L.G. powder .
The charges of the 1878.1 Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on .
253 ' rockets were 12 oz. , 8 oz. , 4 oz. , and 2 oz. , of gun-cotton respectively .
The gun and the four rockets constituted a series , and eight series were ired during the afternoon of the 17th .
The observations were made r'rom the " Vestal " and the " Galatea , " positions being assumed which permitted the sound to reach the observers with the wind , against the wind , and across the wind .
The distance of the " Galatea " varied from B to 7 miles , that of the " Vestal , " which was more restricted in her movements , being 2 to 3 miles .
Briefly summed up , the result is that the howitzer , firing a 3-lb .
charge , which it will be remembered was our best gun at the South Foreland , was beaten by the 12-oz .
rocket , by the 8-oz .
rocket , and by the 4-oz .
rocket .
The 2-oz .
rocket alone fell behind the howitzer .
It is worth while recording the distances to which some of the sounds were heard on the day now referred to :\#151 ; 1 .
Leigh ... ... ... ... ... miles W.N.W. . .
24 out of 40 sounds heard .
2 .
G-irdler Light-vessel. .
12 " S.E. by E ... 5 " " 3 .
Reculvers ... ... ... ... .
17\#163 ; " S.E. by S. . .
18 " " 4 .
St. Nicholas ... ... ... . .
20 " S.E. 3 " " 5 .
Epple Bay ... ... ... ... ... 22 " S.E. by E ... 19 " " 6 .
Westgate ... ... ... ... ... 23 " S.E. by E ... 9 " , , 7 .
Kingsgate ... ... ... ... . .
25 " S.E. by E ... 8 " " The day was cloudy , with occasional showers of drizzling rain ; the wind about N.W. by N. all day ; at times squally , rising to a force of 6 and 7 and sometimes dropping to a force of 2 or 3 .
The station at Leigh excepted , all these places were to leeward of Shoeburyness .
At four other stations to leeward , varying in distance from 15f to 24^ miles , nothing was heard , while at eleven stations to windward , varying from 8 to 26 miles , the sounds were also inaudible .
It was found , indeed , that the sounds proceeding against the wind did not penetrate much beyond 3 miles .
On the following day , viz. , the 18th October , we proceeded to Dunge-ness with the view of making a series of strict comparative experiments with gun-cotton and cotton-powder .
Rockets containing 8 oz. , 4oz .
, and 2 oz. of gun-cotton had been prepared at the Royal Arsenal ; while others , containing a similar quantity of cotton-powder , had been supplied by the Cotton-powder Company at Faversham .
With these were compared the ordinary 18-pounder gun , which happened to be mounted at Dungeness , firing the usual charge of 3 lbs. of powder .
From these experiments it appeared that the gun-cotton and cotton-powder were practically equal as producers of sound .
The effectiveness of small charges was also illustrated in a very striking manner , only a single unit separating the numerical value of the 8-oz .
rocket from that of the 2-oz .
rocket .
The former was recorded as 6*9 and the latter as 5*9 , the value of the 4-oz .
charge being intermediate between them .
These results were recorded by a number s 2 254 Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on Fog-Signals .
[ Mar. 21 , of very practised observers on board the " Galatea .
" They were completely borne out by the observations of the Coastguard , who marked the value of the 8-oz .
rocket 6T , and that of the 2-oz .
rocket 5'2 .
The 18-pounder gun fell far behind all the rockets , a result probably to be in part ascribed to the imperfection of the powder .
The performance of the syren was , on the whole , less satisfactory than that of the rockets .
The instrument was worked , not by steam of 70 lbs. pressure , as at the South Foreland , but by compressed air , beginning with 40 lbs. and ending with 30 lbs. pressure .
The trumpet was pointed to windward , and in the axis of the instrument the sound was about as effective as that of the 8-oz .
rocket .
But in a direction at right angles to the axis , and still more in the rear of this direction , the syren fell very sensibly behind even the 2-oz .
rocket .
These are the principal comparative trials made between the guncotton rocket and other fog-signals ; but they are not the only ones .
On the 2nd of August , 1877 , for example , experiments were made at Lundy Island with the following results .
At 2 miles distant from the firing point , with land intervening , the 18-pounder , firing a 3-lb .
charge , was quite unheard .
Both the 4-oz .
rocket and the 8-oz .
rocket , however , reached an elevation which commanded the acoustic shadow , and yielded loud reports .
When both were in view , the rockets were still superior to the gun .
On the 6th of August , at St. Ann 's , the 4-oz .
and 8-oz .
rockets proved superior to the syren .
On the Shambles Light-vessel , when a pressure of 13 lbs. was employed to sound the syren , the rockets proved greatly superior to that instrument .
Proceeding along the sea margin at Flamboro ' Head , Mr. Edwards states that at a distance of lj mile , with the 18-pounder gun hidden behind the cliffs , its report was quite unheard , while the 4-oz .
rocket , rising to an elevation which brought it clearly into view , yielded a powerful sound iu the face of an opposing wind .
On the evening of February 9th , 1877 , a remarkable series of experiments was made by Mr. Prentice , at Stowmarket , with the gun-cotton rocket .
From the report with which he has kindly furnished me I extract the following particulars .
The first column in the annexed statement contains the name of the place of observation , the second its distance from the firing-point , and the third the result observed:\#151 ; Stoke Hill , Ipswich. .
Melton ... ... ... ... . .
Hramlingham ... ... . .
18 Stratford .
St. Andrews 19 10 miles Rockets clearly seen and sounds distinctly heard 53 seconds after the flash .
Signals distinctly heard .
Thought at first that sounds were reverberated from the sea .
Signals very distinctly heard , both in the open air and in a closed room .
Wind in favour of sound .
Reports loud ; startled pheasants in a cover close by .
L878 .
] Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on Fog-Signals .
255 ruddenham .
St. Martin 10 miles Reports very loud ; rolled away like thunder , " 'hrist Church Park ... .
11 .\gt ; Report arrived a little more than a minute after flash .
Nettlested Hall ... ... . .
6 " Distinct in every part of observer 's house .
Very loud in the open air .
Bildestone ... ... ... ... ... .
6 " Explosion very loud , wind against sound .
Nacton ... ... ... ... ... ... .
14 " Reports quite distinct\#151 ; mistaken by inhabitants for claps of thunder .
Aldboro ... ... ... ... ... ... .
25 " Rockets seen through a very hazy atmosphere ; a -rumbling detonation heard .
Capel Mills ... ... ... ... . .
11 \#187 ; Reports heard within and without the observer 's house .
Wind opposed to sound .
Lawford ... ... ... ... ... .
15J " Reports distinct : attributed to distant thunder .
In the great majority of these cases , the direction of the sound enclosed a large angle with the direction of the wind .
In some cases , indeed , the two directions were at right angles to each other .
It is needless to dwell for a moment on the advantage of a signal commanding ranges such as these .
The explosion of substances in the air , after having been carried to a considerable elevation by rockets , is a familiar performance .
In 1873 the Board of Trade actually proposed a light-and-sound rocket as a signal of distress , which proposal was subsequently realised , but in a form too elaborate and expensive for practical use .
The idea of the gun-cotton rocket with a view to signalling in fogs is , I believe , wholly due to the Deputy Master of the Trinity House .
Thanks to the skilful aid given by the authorities of Woolwich , by Mr. Prentice , and Mr. Brock , that idea is now an accomplished fact ; a signal of great power , handiness , and economy , being thus placed at the service of our mariners .
Not only may the rocket be applied in association with lighthouses and lightships , but in the Navy also it may be turned to important account .
Soon after the loss of the " Vanguard " I ventured to urge upon an eminent naval officer the desirability of having an organised code of fog-signals for the fleet .
He shook bis head doubtingly , and referred to the difficulty of finding room for signal-guns .
The gun-cotton rocket completely surmounts this difficulty .
It is manipulated with ease and rapidity , while its discharges may be so grouped and combined as to give a most important extension to the voice of the admiral in command .
It is needless to add that at any point upon our coasts , or upon any other coast , where its establishment might be desirable , a fog-signal station might be extemporised without difficulty .
I have referred more than once to the train of echoes which accompanied the explosion of gun-cotton in free air , speaking of them as similar in all respects to those which were described for the first time in my Report on fog-signals , addressed to the Corporation of Trinity 256 Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on Fog-Signals .
[ Mar. 21 , House in 1874.* To these echoes I attached a fundamental significance .
There was no visible reflecting surface from which they could come .
On some days , with hardly a cloud in the air , and hardly a ripple on the sea , they reached us with magical intensity .
They came directly from the body of the air in front of the great trumpet which produced them .
The trumpet-blasts were five seconds in duration , but long before the blast had ceased the echoes struck in , adding their strength to the primitive note of the trumpet .
After the blast had ended the echoes continued , retreating further and further from the point of observation , and finally dying away at great distances .
The echoes were perfectly continuous as long as the sea was clear of ships , " tapering " by imperceptible gradations into absolute silence .
But when a ship happened to throw itself athwart the course of the sound , the echo from the broadside Of the vessel was returned as a shock which rudely interrupted the continuity of the dying atmospheric music .
These echoes have been ascribed to reflection from the crests of the sea-waves .
But this hypothesis is negatived by the fact that the echoes were produced in great intensity and duration when no waves existed \#151 ; when the sea , in fact , was of glassy smoothness .
It has been also shown that the direction of the echoes depended not on that of waves , real or assumed , but on the direction of the axis of the trumpet .
Causing that axis to traverse an arc of 210 ' , and the trumpet to sound at various points of the arc , the echoes were always , at all events in calm weather , returned from that portion of the atmosphere towards which the trumpet was directed .
They could not , under the circumstances , come from the glassy sea ; while both their variation of direction , and their perfectly continuous fall into silence , are irrecon-cileable with the notion that they came from fixed objects on the land .
They came from that portion of the atmosphere into which the trumpet poured its maximum sound , and fell in intensity as the direct sound penetrated to greater atmospheric distances .
The day on which our latest observations were made was particularly fine .
Before reaching Dungeness , the smoothness of the sea and the serenity of the air caused me to test the echoing power of the atmosphere .
A single ship lay about half a mile distant between us and the land .
The result of the proposed experiment was clearly foreseen .
It was this .
The rocket being sent up , it exploded at a great height ; the echoes retreated in their usual fashion , becoming less and less intense as the distance of the surfaces of reflection from the observers increased .
About five seconds after the explosion , a single loud shock was sent back to us from the side of the vessel lying between us and the land .
Obliterated for a moment by this * See also " Philosophical Transactions " for 1874 , p. 183 .
1878 .
] Prof. Tyndall .
Experiments on Fog-Signals .
257 more intense echo , the aerial reverberation continued its retreat , dying away into silence in two or three seconds afterwards .
I have referred to the firing of an 8-oz .
rocket from the deck of the " Galatea , " on the 8th of March , 1877 , stating the duration of its echoes to be seven seconds .
Mr. Prentice , who was present at the time , assured me that , in his experiments with rockets , similar echoes had been frequently heard of more than twice this duration .
The ranges of his sounds alone would render this result in the highest degree probable .
To attempt to interpret an experiment which I have not had an opportunity of repeating , is an operation of some risk ; and it is not without a consciousness of this that I refer here to a result considei'ed adverse to the notion of aerial echoes .
When the trumpet of a siren is pointed towards the zenith , it is alleged that when the siren is sounded no echo is returned .
Now the reflecting surfaces which give rise to these echoes are for the most part due to differences of temperature between sea and air .
If , through any cause , the air above be chilled , we have descending streams\#151 ; if the air below be warmed , we have ascending streams as the initial cause of atmospheric flocculence .
A sound proceeding vertically does not cross the streams , nor impinge upon the reflecting surfaces , as does a sound proceeding horizontally across them .
Aerial echoes , therefore , will not accompany the vertical sound as they accompany the horizontal one .
The experiment , as I interpret it , is not opposed to the theory of aerial echoes which I have ventured to enunciate .
But , as I have indicated , not only to see , but to vary such an experiment , is a necessary prelude to grasping its full significance .
In a paper published in the " Philosophical Transactions " for 1876 , Professor Osborne Reynolds refers to these echoes in the following terms : " Without attempting to explain the reverberations and echoes which have been observed , I will merely call attention to the fact that in no case have I heard any attending the reports of the rockets , * although they seem to have been invariable with the guns and pistols .
These facts suggest that the echoes are in some way connected with the direction given to the sound .
They are caused by the voice , trumpets , and the siren , all of which give direction to the sound ; but I am not aware that they have ever been observed in the case of a sound which has no direction of greatest intensity .
" The reference to the voice and other references cause me to think that , in speaking of echoes , Professor Osborne Reynolds and myself are dealing with different phenomena .
Be that as it may , the foregoing observations render it perfectly certain that the condition as to direction here laid down is not necessary to the production of the echoes .
* These carried 12 oz. of gunpowder .
Mr. G. Bischof on [ Mar. 28 , There is not a feature connected with the aerial echoes which cannot be brought out by experiments in the laboratory .
I have recently made the following experiment:\#151 ; A rectangle , 22 inches by 12 , is crossed by 23 brass tubes , each having a slit along it from which gas can issue .
In this way , 23 low , flat flames are obtained .
A sounding reed , fixed in a short tube , is placed at one end of the rectangle , and a sensitive flame at some distance beyond the other end .
When the reed sounds , the flame in front of it is violently agitated , and roars boisterously .
Turning on the gas , and lighting it as it issues from the slits , the air above the flames becomes so heterogeneous that - the sensitive flame is instantly stilled by the aerial reflection , rising from a height of 6 inches to a height of 18 inches .
Here we have the acoustic opacity of the air in front of the South Foreland strikingly imitated .
Turning off the gas , and removing the sensitive flame to some distance behind the reed , it burns there tranquilly , though the reed may be sounding .
Again lighting the gas as it issues from the brass tubes , the sound reflected from the heterogeneous air throws the sensitive flame into violent agitation .
Here we have imitated the aerial echoes heard when standing behind the syren-trumpets at the South Foreland .
The experiment is extremely simple , and in the highest degree impressive .
March 28 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Notice was given that the name of Hr .
Radcliffe had been withdrawn from the list of Candidates for the Fellowship .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Putrescent Organic Matter in Potable Water .
II .
" By Gustav Bischof .
Received February 18 , 1878 .
Communicated by E , Frankland , F.R.S. Referring to the paper which I communicated to the Royal Society last session* , I have to add , that after passing water continuously for six weeks through one of the vessels there described , filled with spongy * " Proceedings , " vol. xxvi , p. 152 .

