I. " Dissections of the Ganglia and Nerves of the ( Esophagus , Stomach , and Lungs .
" By ROBERT LEE , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 13 , 1862 .
On the 17th of July 1861 I resolved to dissect the nerves of the human stomach immersed in alcohol , as I had done those of the uterus and heart , with magnifying powers of six and twelve diameters ' Having procured from Dr. William Dickinson at St. George 's Hospital a healthy stomach with three inches of the oesophagus , and having thoroughly washed away the contents , and the blood from the vessels , it was placed in a shallow vessel and covered with rectified spirit .
With the help of my dissecting lens , a pair of small straight forceps , a pair of small curved forceps , and curved needle , I proceeded cautiously to remove all the white condensed cellular membrane in which the trunks and branches of the par vagurn on the oesophagus were imbedded , and the sheath of slender fibres of cellular membrane closely investing all the nerves .
Two glands situated near the termination of the oesophagus in the stomach were likewise removed .
The trunks and branches of the par vagum having thus been completely laid bare , the whole oesophagus appeared covered with ganglionic plexuses of nerves , and distinct ganglia formed on the nerves were clearly seen .
Some of these ganglia had the usual appearance of ganglia of the great sympathetic , with nerves entering and nerves passing out from them , and these branches passing into other ganglia .
Some of the ganglia formed on the trunks of the par vagum were long and thin , presenting the appearance which Mr. Joseph Swan has called gangliform membranes .
Near the cardia , both trunks of the par vagum terminated abruptly in long solid ganglia of a reddish colour and firm texture ; and from these numerous small branches of nerves with ganglia were sent to the whole cardiac extremity of the stomach without being accompanied with arteries ; and others were sent to the coronary artery , and accompanied this artery with all its ramifications to the lining membrane of the stomach .
On examining minutely the ganglia and nerves of the oesophagus , numerous branches were seen passing down between the strong longitudinal muscular fibres of the oesophagus to the circular muscular fibres of the middle coat , upon which plexuses of nerves with small 134 ganglia were formed .
Some branches of nerves were seen passing from the middle coat of the oesophagus into the lining membrane .
After having completed the dissection of the oesophageal ganglia and nerves , the nerves continuous with them were then carefully traced throughout the walls of the stomach from the cardia to the pylorus .
The peritoneal coat having been removed , a thin strong tendinous expansion was seen underneath , covering the whole convex border of the stomach and a great part of both the anterior and posterior surfaces ; the removal of this fascia was necessary before the nerves could be traced .
If the preparation be now examined , numerous small nerves will be seen proceeding from the abrupt termination of the par vagum at the cardia , and distributed extensively over the cardiac extremity of the stomach , to the muscular coat .
Numerous branches of nerves can be seen passing down between the muscular fibres of the outer to the subjacent muscular coat , and largely distributed over the fibres of this coat .
The two trunks of the par vagum , divided into numerous branches , can be seen passing forward to the coronary artery , which has been cut across , with all the nerves proceeding from the semilunar ganglion which united at the cardiac extremity of the stomach with these nerves continued from the par vagumo The trunk and all the branches of the coronary artery are accormpanied with nerves from the par vagum and semilunar ganglion , and in this dissection the nerves with the arteries have been traced extensively to the lining membrane of the stomach .
The branches of the coronary artery are seen passing down through the muscular coats generally , about midway between the smaller and larger curvatures , accompanied with nerves upon which ganglia are formed ; and numerous branches of nerves are seen passing to the muscular coats from the nerves which accompany the arteries .
I will not attempt further on this occasion to describe the ganglia and nerves of the oesophagus and stomiach displayed in this dissection , from which it is obvious that there are two sets of nerves distributed throughout the walls of the stomach , one to the muscular coats , the other destined to supply the lining membrane .
I have made elaborate dissections of the ganglia and nerves of the whole oesophagus , stomach , alimentary canal , and lungs ; but of these 1862.j 135 I shall give no account to the Royal Society unless expressly requested by the Council to do so , and assured that my communication shall receive that treatment which I consider the importance of the subject to demand .

