I. " Synthetical Researches upon Ethers.-Synthesis of Ethers from Acetic Ethers .
" By E. FaANKLAND , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution of Great Britain , and in the Royal School of Mines , and B. F. DUPPA , Esq. Received July 13 , 1865 .
( Abstract .
) In a recent note * we have briefly described the synthesis of butyric and diethacetic ethers by acting consecutively upon acetic ether with sodium and the iodide of ethyl .
In the present paper we have the honour to lay before the Royal Society the detailed results of one section of this research , embracing the action of sodium and the iodides of methyl , ethyl , and amyl upon acetic ether .
I. Action of Sodium and Ethyl Iodide upon Acetic Ether .
When acetic ether is treated with sodium at a temperature gradually rising to 120 ?
C. , hydrogen is evolved , and a thick brownish liquid produced ; the latter solidifies on cooling to a yellowish mass , presenting the appearance of beeswax .
On digesting this solid mass with ethylic iodide at 100 ?
C. for several hours , a number of products are formed , which on the addition of water , may be distilled off from a residue consisting chiefly of iodide of sodium .
The distillate can readily be separated into an aqueous and an oily portion .
The latter then presented the appearance of a light straw-coloured oil , possessing a pleasant and fragrant odour .
It was washed and then dried over chloride of calcium , and submitted to fractional distillation , by which traces of alcohol , acetic ether , and ethyl iodide were effectually removed from the other products , which now boiled between 120 ?
and 265 ?
C. We have described the constituents of this complex liquid under two distinct heads , viz.:1st .
Products depending upon the duplication of the atom of acetic ether .
2nd .
Products derived from the replacement of hydrogen in the methyl of acetic ether by the alcohol-radicals .
In orde.r successfully to separate the two products from each other , and especially to disentangle their constituent compounds , it is absolutely necessary to operate upon large quantities of material .
But if this be done , there is obtained a considerable quantity of the products of the first division boiling between 204 ?
and 208 ?
, whilst the products of the second division boil considerably below these temperatures .
a. Examination of the products depending upon the duplication of the atom of acetic ether .
Submitted to analysis , this liquid was found to consist of two bodies of the formulae Clo H18 03 , and C , H1043 , separable from each other by repeated rectification , and also by the action of boiling aqueous potash , which decomposes the second but scarcely affects the first .
From the results of the analysis , and from considerations which are fully entered into in the paper , we propose for these bodies the following names and formulae : ( 'H3 I CI Ethylic dethacetone carbonate ... .0 ( CH 1 !
1 to C2 2-I The production of ethylic diethacetone carbonate is explained in the following equations : rh2 113 O/ C , 0311 20( o " +Na=l Na2 0+i2 0 05he6r 0 Alcohol .
Acetic ether .
O0H C , , &lt; Na2a + 202 15 TI=C4 ( Cs s)2Na I I0o0 " 2(O O C2 H " ZEthiylic dietiacetone carbonate .
Ethylic diethacetone carbonate is a colourless and somewhat oily liquid , possessing a fragrant odour and a pungent taste .
It is insoluble in water , but miscible in all proportions with alcohol and ether .
Its specific gravity is 9738 at 200 C. It boils between 2100 and 2120 , and distils unchanged .
2M2 1865 .
] Researches on Ethers .
459 The density of its vapour was found to be 6'59 .
The above formula , corresponding to two volumes , requires the number 6'43 .
Boiling aqueous solutions of potash and soda have scarcely any action on ethylic diethacetone carbonate , but baryta-water and lime-water decompose it with great facility , as do also boiling alcoholic solutions of potash and soda .
In all cases a carbonate of the base is precipitated , and alcohol , together with a light ethereal liquid , is separated .
This liquid , freed from alcohol by repeated washing with salt and water , boiled , after drying over chloride of calcium , between 137 ?
'5 and 139 ?
C. Submitted to analysis , it yielded results corresponding with the formula C , H,1 0 .
We regard this body as diethylated acetone .
Its formula and its relations to acetone may be thus expressed : CH3 C Et2 HC MeO C MeO Acetone .
Diethylated acetone .
Diethvlated acetone is produced from ethylic diethacetone carbonate by the action of alcoholic potash according to the following equation : r11H~~~~3 T ~H I _ ?
" fo f-t3 C4K ( C , H)2+2K H 0=C K+C2H5 O +C.3 ( 1 1o0K Alcohol .
II 1 , o C2 H5 Potassium Ethylic diethacetone carbonate .
Diethylated carbonate .
acetone .
Diethylated acetone is a colourless , transparent and mobile liquid , possessing a penetrating odour of camphor , and the burning and bitter after-taste of the same substance .
It is very slightly soluble in water , but miscible in all proportions with alcohol and ether .
Its specific gravity is '8171 at 22 ?
C. It boils at 137 ?
'5 to 139 ?
C. A determination of its vapour-density gave the number 3'86 , the above formula requiring 3*93 .
Diethylated acetone does not oxidize in the air , neither does it reduce ammoniacal solution of nitrate of silver when boiled with it .
Mixed with concentrated solution of sodium bisulphite , it forms an oily compound which scarcely exhibits signs of crystallization at 0 ?
C. It suffers no alteration by prolonged boiling with alcoholic potash .
It is isomeric with butyrone , with a ketone obtained by Fittig Ethylic ethacetone carbonate is produced by the action of sodium and ethylic iodide upon acetic ether , according to the following equations : fH3 { C2 2115 OC2 tH Acetic eth I ' +Na=C Na +C ler .
O C2 H Ethylie sodacetone carbonate .
21 H10 H +H Alcohol .
3 I3 AH3 C Na +C , , I=C , C H2a +Na I. !
( o7 Iq Na O'0 ( O C2 , H ( O C2 HI Ethylie sodacetone Ethylic ethacetone carbonate .
carbonate .
Ethylic ethacetone carbonate is a colourless and transparent liquid , pos .
sessing a very fragrant odour and an aromatic taste .
It is nearly insoluble in water , but miscible in all proportions with alcohol and ether .
Its density in the liquid condition is 9834 at 16 ?
C. It boils at 195 ?
C. , and distils without decomposition .
A determination of its vapour-density gave the number 5-36 .
The above formula requires 5-45 .
Ethylic ethacetone carbonate is readily attacked by boiling aqueous solutions of potash and soda , yielding carbonates of these bases , alcohol , and ethylated acetone , according to the following equation : rH3 0 " p0 " rC42 H5 +2K H O=C OK +C 2H OH ?
C3 -e 1 , |(2 5 E1K Alcohol .
1yt kO C , H15 Ethylated Ethylic ethacetone acetone .
carbonate .
Ethylic ethacetone carbonate is still more readily decomposed by aqueous solution of baryta and by alcoholic potash , in both cases ethylated acetone and a carbonate of the base is produced .
Ethylated acetone may be freed from alcohol by repeated washing with salt and water , but it is best obtained in a state of absolute purity by combination with , and subsequent separation from , bisulphite of soda .
Ethylated acetone thus purified and rectified from quicklime yielded on analysis numbers agreeing well with the formula C,.5 HloO , which may be reduced to the radical type as follows : r 3rC 113 O Of " o_C Et H 3{jr11 7 jK0 1{CMeO Its relations to acetone and diethylated acetone are then clearly seen in the following formula , c 0H3 C Et H,2 C Et , 11 CMe CMeO CeCMeO Acetone .
Etllylateed Diethylated acetone .
acetone .
Ethylated acetone is a colourless , transparent and very mobile liquid , possessing a powerful and pleasant odour , in which that of camphor is slightly perceptible .
Its specific gravity is -8132 at 13 ?
C. , and '8046 at 22 ?
C. It boils steadily at 101 ?
'5 , and its vapour has the density 2-951 , the above formula requiring 2'971 .
Ethylated acetone neither absorbs oxygen from the air , nor reduces ammoniacal solutions of silver .
It yields with concentrated solutions of bisulphite of soda a compound in large and brilliant crystals , which are quite permanent in the air , and which at once distingush it from diethylated acetone , the latter producing under the same circumstances an oily compound .
Ethylated acetone is not altered by prolonged ebullition with alcoholic potash .
3 .
Examination of the products derived from the replacement of hydrogen in the methyl of acetic ether by ethyl .
The chief results of this examination are given in the note above alluded to * , and we have only to add that ethacetic acid is identical with butyric acid , whilst diethacetic acid is isomeric with caproic acid .
II .
Action of Sodium and Methylic Iodide upon Acetic Ether .
This reaction is conducted in substantially the same manner as that above described , and the products are completely homologous .
Thus there are produced two carboketonic ethers , and an ether derived from acetic ether by the substitution of methyl for hydrogen .
The latter has been already described in our previous communication on this subject .
The following are the names and formulae of the carboketonic ethers:(J3 I o " Ethylic dimethacetone carbonate. .
C4 &lt; ( C 11)2 ( -O C2 HE 0021[ .
UTh Ethylic methacetone carbonate. .
C iH ?
o o , " Proceedings of Royal Society .
vol. xiv .
p. 198 .
46 The reactions involved in the production of these bodies are exactly similar to those by which the corresponding ethylic bodies are formed .
Ethylic dimethacetone carbonate is a colourless , slightly oleaginous liquid , possessing a peculiar penetrating and pleasant odour , and a sharp burning taste .
It is scarcely at all soluble in water , but readily so in alcohol and ether .
Its specific gravity is -9913 at 16 ?
C. It boils constantly at 184 ?
C. , and distils unchanged .
A determination of its vapour-density gave the number 5'36 , the above formula requiring 5'45 .
Its remaining properties very closely resemble those of ethylic diethacetone carbonate .
Boiled with baryta-water , it gives barium carbonate and dimethylated acetone , C Me 12 Dimethylated acetone is a colourless , transparent and very mobile liquid , possessing a pleasant odour , reminding at the same time of parsley and acetone .
Its specific gravity is '8099 at 13 ?
C. , and it boils at 93 ?
-5 C. Its vapour-density is 2'92 , theory requiring 2-97 .
Dimethylated acetone closely resembles its ethylic homologue in all.its chemical properties ; like diethylated acetone , it is oxidized with difficulty , and does not very readily form a crystalline compound with bisulphite of soda-differing in the latter respect markedly from its isomer , ethylated acetone , and also from methylated acetone described below .
Ethylic dimethacetone carbonate and ethylic methacetone carbonate boil at the same temperature , and cannot therefore be separated by rectification ; but we have prepared and examined the ketone from the second of these bodies ; viz. methylated acetone , which has the formula { C Me H12 C Me O Methylated acetone is best obtained in a state of purity by combining it with bisulphite of soda , pressing the beautiful crystalline compound so formed between folds of blotting-paper to remove traces of dimethylated acetone , exposing it over sulphuric acid in vacuo , and then regenerating the methylated acetone by distillation with aqueous potash .
The liquid so obtained , after drying over quicklime and rectification , gave analytical results corresponding with the above formula .
Methylated acetone is a colourless , transparent and very mobile liquid , possessing an odour like chloroform , but more pungent .
It is tolerably soluble in water , and more than slightly so in a saturated solution of common salt .
Its specific gravity is '8125 at 13 ?
C. It boils at 81 ?
C. , and its vapour-density is 2'52 , the above formula requiring 2'49 .
Methylated acetone is identical with the ethyl-acetyl obtained by Freund * in acting upon chloride of acetyl with zinc ethyl .
Methylated acetone forms a splendidly crystalline compound with bisulphite of soda , and in its other chemical properties so closely resembles ethylated acetone as to require no further description .
It retains alcohol with such tenacity as to render its separation from that liquid by washing and treatment with chloride of cal* Ann. Ch. Pharm. , vol. cxviii .
p. 1 .
1865 .
] 463

