349 Experiments to Ascertain if Certain Tabanidce Act as the Carriers of Trypanosoma pecorum .
By Colonel Sir David Bruce , C.B. , F.R.S. , A.M.S. , and Captains A. E. Hamerton , D.S.O. , and H. R. Bateman , R.A.M.C. ( Sleeping Sickness Commission of the Royal Society , 1908-10 ) .
( Received December 20 , 1910 , \#151 ; Read March 2 , 1911 .
) [ Plate 16 .
] Introduction .
The study of the trypanosome diseases of domestic animals in Uganda was a branch , and an important one , of the work undertaken by the Commission .
Among other points arising in this investigation , the finding , if possible , of a carrier of the various trypanosome diseases was necessary .
In the 'Proceedings'* of the Royal Society , the Commission published a paper entitled " Trypanosome Diseases of Domestic Animals in Uganda .
I.\#151 ; Trypanosoma Fecorum .
" This paper gives full details as to the definition , morphological and cultural characteristics , and distribution in Africa , of Trypanosoma pecorum .
A few experiments and experiences of the Commission were also given , which led to the belief that possibly Tabanidae were the common carriers in Africa of the disease caused in cattle by this trypanosome .
With the object of gaining further knowledge on this important problem , the Commission worked in Uganda from January to July , 1910 , on the following lines :\#151 ; 1 .
An investigation of the biting flies occurring in the vicinity of the laboratory at Mpumu , Chagwe , Uganda .
2 .
A study of the natural history of these biting flies .
3 .
Transmission experiments with these flies .
4 .
A study of the flagellates , if any , natural to these flies .
1 .
An Investigation of the Biting Flies Occurring in the Vicinity of the Laboratory at Mpumu , Chagwe , Uganda .
No systematic search was made for blood-sucking flies in this neighbourhood till January , 1910 .
Up to this date the Commission had identified some four different species in the vicinity of Mpumu .
An outbreak of trypanosome disease in cattle having occurred in * B , 1910 , vol. 82 , p. 468 .
Col. Sir D. Bruce and others .
Tabanidce [ Dec. 20 , September , 1909* in the valleys surrounding Mpumu hill , it was decided to make a prolonged and careful search for biting flies in these valleys .
Boys were employed whose sole duty it was to hunt daily for these flies , cattle accompanying the boys to act as a bait for the flies .
This more systematic search produced unexpected results .
In the place of only three or four varieties of biting flies , no less than 12 species of Tabanidse , five species of Hsematopota , two different Chrysops , a new and very handsome Bhinomyza , and Glossina were captured within a 3-mile radius of the laboratory .
These flies were kindly identified for us by Mr. E. E. Austen , F.L.S. , to whom specimens were sent , and for whose help and courtesy the Commission is much indebted .
T.he full list is here given , as it will probably be of value to future workers in the Mpumu laboratory , and of interest to entomologists .
Tabanidce .
Tabanus sececlens ( Walk .
) , very numerous .
Tabanus fuscomarginatus ( Bicardo ) , very numerous .
Tabanus thoracinus ( Pal .
de Beauv .
) , very numerous .
Tabanus par ( Walk .
) , fairly numerous .
Tabanus tceniola ( Pal .
de Beauv .
) , fairly numerous .
Tabanus socialis ( Walk .
) , fairly numerous .
Tabanus variatus ( Walk .
) , fairly numerous .
Tabanus fasciatus ( Fabr .
) , sub .
sp. niloticus ( Austen ) .
Tabanus insignis ( Lw .
) , scarce .
Tabanus variabilis ( Lw .
) , scarce .
Tabanus obscurissimus ( ?
) , scarce .
Tabanus irroratus ( Surcouf ) , rare .
Hcematopota .
Hcematopota ugandce ( Bicardo ) .
H. vittata ( Lw .
) , syn .
( Austen ) .
H. fusca ( Austen ) .
H. brunnescens ( Bicardo ) .
similis ( Bicardo ) .
( All numerous .
) Chrysops .
Chrysops funebris ( Austen ) .
C. silacea ( Austen ) .
Glossina .
Glossina palpalis ( Bob.-Desv .
) .
Rhinomyza .
Rhinomyza perpulcra ( Austen ) .
* 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , 1910 , vol. 82 , pp. 476\#151 ; 478 .
1910 .
] cts Carriers of Trypanosoma pecorum .
351 This part of the investigation made two facts clear to the Commission .
Firstly , that experiments to ascertain a carrier of any of the trypanosome diseases of domestic animals in Africa must necessarily be both prolonged and difficult .
Secondly , that the distribution of the different species of biting flies in any country cannot be mapped out by a travelling entomologist .
Accurate maps can only be made by the whole-hearted co-operation of those officials and settlers who are resident in the country for long periods .
The observations should , wrhere possible , be made daily , and continued for at least one year in the same locality .
2 .
A Study of the Natural History of the Biting Flies Found in the Neighbourhood of Mpumu .
It should be clearly understood that whatever observations are given below refer to the natural history of these flies as observed in this locality only .
Elsewhere difference in climatic and other conditions may give rise to variations in the habits and life-history of these flies .
Glossina The habits of the Glossina in this neighbourhood do not vary from the same species on the Lake-shore .
Their presence was , however , both interesting and disquieting , as the Kasala stream , where they were captured , is at least 6 miles from the nearest point of Lake Victoria .
Further , the stream has no connection whatever with this Lake .
Bising in a narrow belt of forest at the foot of Mpumu hill , it flows through forest along the north-west face of the hill and then joins the Sezibwa Biver , which trends northwards , running parallel with the Nile , to empty into Lake Chioga .
The Glossina were very scarce , three or four only being caught monthly between January and July , 1910 .
They were all caught at one spot\#151 ; -a ford of the stream , situated a mile or so from the laboratory .
No tsetse-flies were seen in any other part of the stream .
It is possible these flies had found their way down from the hill , since it was by no means an uncommon circumstance for some flies to escape from their cages when brought up by the fly-boys .
Escaped flies were found on several occasions on different parts of the hill .
The Tabanidce .
Habitat.\#151 ; Narrow belts of dense tropical forest , which commonly mark the windings of a flowing stream .
The two essential factors appear to be deep shade and water , not necessarily running water .
These flies are not found on grass-covered hill-tops .
352 Col. Sir D. Bruce and others .
[ Dec. 20 , Habits.\#151 ; Emerging from the upper branches of the forest trees , on which they presumably shelter during the night , these flies commence feeding about 7 a.m. if the morning be fine with plenty of sunshine .
They cease to feed about 6 p.m. Their most active hours are from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. , viz. , the hottest part of the day .
From 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. , and again from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. , they are sluggish and do not feed readily .
In wet , cold , or dull weather no flies are to be seen as a rule .
They bite cattle and man freely , but much prefer the former , and will rarely attack man in the presence of cattle .
Their bite is like the stab of a sharp lancet , and draws a free trickle of blood from both oxen and man .
They have followed cattle a distance of 3 miles to the laboratory , but invariably left the hill-top soon after their arrival , or died in sheltered spots about the houses a few days after their arrival .
Variation in Incidence.\#151 ; This phenomenon is the most striking characteristic of the Tabanidse .
A forested stream known to be free from a certain species of Tabanus one day will be infested with that species during the next two or three days .
This eruption , if it may be so called , appears to be simultaneous over a given area , and may be explained by the flies all arriving at maturity about the same day .
This tends to show that .
the females all lay their batches of eggs about the same time .
Further , it is not unreasonable to date the commencement of the fly 's winged life from this time , and so , watching carefully for their final disappearance , we arrive , probably with some degree of accuracy , at the length of life of the fully-developed fly .
The disappearance of the fly is almost as sudden as their eruption ; in some three days a locality previously swarming with a certain species of Tabanus will be quite free from this species .
In this manner the Commission have observed carefully three species of Tabanidse , viz. , Tabanus secedens , Tabanus fuscomargincdus , and Tabanus In these cases , on the above computation , the limit of life of these flies is as follows : Tabanus secedens , four months ; Tabanus fuscomarginatus , two months ; Tabanus thoracinus , four months .
At least , two such eruptions of the same fly may occur in the same locality in the same year .
The Tdbanidce .
gex.\#151 ; During the seven months ( January-July , 1910 ) these experiments were taking place , many thousand Tabanidse were captured , but no male of any of the 12 different species was ever seen or taken .
The Hcematopota .
Habitat.\#151 ; The Hsematopota have a more extensive range than the Tabanidse .
They are to be found in the same localities as the Tabanidse , 1910 .
] as Carriers of Trypanosoma pecorum .
and also , in large numbers , in open swampy areas where few or no trees grow .
The rank grass , which grows waist-high in these swamps , appears to satisfy what need they may have for shade .
Another very favourite locality for these flies is a road or ford crossing streams and swamps .
The fly is absent from dry , open , grass-covered hill tops .
Habits.\#151 ; The hours of greatest activity , and the feeding times of this genus , correspond to those given above for the Tabanidae .
They have a sluggish flight , and attack man more readily than do the Tabanidse .
When they settle on their victim they rarely bite at once , but usually walk about slowly for a few seconds before inserting their proboscis .
They will follow cattle or man for a mile or two .
Sex.\#151 ; No male fly was ever captured by the Commission during the time these observations were taking place .
The Chrysops and the Rhinomyza .
These flies were comparatively scanty in the neighbourhood , and no accurate observations were made of their natural history .
All were caught at the ford on the Kasala stream , at the foot of Mpumu hill .
perpulcra appeared to be very localised in its distribution , as it was never seen elsewhere in the vicinity .
It was usually captured whilst sunning itself on stones in the stream , or whilst it was biting natives washing clothes at this ford .
Its habitat appeared to be the densely forested banks of the ford .
Mr. Austen informs us that it is a new African species .
3 .
Experiments to Ascertain if Tabanus Secedens ( Walk .
) , Tabanus Fuscomarginatus ( Ricardo ) , or Tabanus Thoracinus ( Pal .
de Beauv .
) , are Capable of Transmitting Trypanosoma Pecorum from Sick to Healthy Oxen .
The experiments were carried out between March and August , 1910 .
The above-named species were used , as they were the most common among the Tabanidse during this period .
Only wild flies were employed , as the Commission never succeeded in finding the eggs or larvae of these flies .
The species of Tabanus used in any experiment , and the duration of the experiment , were thus entirely dependent on the seasonal incidence of the fly in the neighbourhood .
Endeavours were at first njade to carry out the experiments in the laboratory on Mpumu hill .
Cages , some 12 inches square , were made , with sides of wood , the top and bottom consisting of wide-meshed mosquito netting .
The captured flies were placed in these cases\#151 ; about 50 flies per cage\#151 ; the cages being kept over water in the laboratory when the flies were vol. lxxxiii.\#151 ; b. 2 D 354 Col. Sir D. Bruce and others .
Tdbanidce [ Dec. 20 , not being fed .
The daily temperature of the laboratory during the days this method was tried was very constant , being 70o,2 F. ( 21\#174 ; -2 C. ) in the morning at 8 , and 80o,2 F. ( 26'*8 C. ) in the afternoon at 4 .
The flies were placed on oxen and monkeys for 20 minutes once daily , to give them ample opportunity to feed .
This method was not successful , the flies\#151 ; secedens ( Walk.)\#151 ; all dying within four days of being caged , the majority within 48 hours .
When placed on am ox , within 12 hours of capture , a few flies fed greedily .
After 24 hours in the cages no fly was observed to bite .
Monkeys were never bitten by the flies , though they would feed on man as readily as on the ox when freshly caught .
If shaded from direct sunlight , the flies refused to feed .
It was decided to build a fly-proof kraal in the natural haunts of the fly , in the hope that the Tabanidse would live longer and feed more readily .
The Kasala stream at the foot of Mpumu hill was chosen as the site of the kraal .
The kraal was divided into two compartments , which were made fly-proof from each other and from the outside .
In one compartment no flies of any species had access .
Into the other compartment the species of Tabanus under experiment were liberated\#151 ; 50 flies per day , on an average .
In the kraal four calves were kept ; three normal and one calf infected with Trypanosoma pecorum .
The infected calf and two of the normal calves were taken from the fly-free compartment into the compartment containing the Tabanidse for three hours daily .
The hours chosen were 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. , and 3 p.m. to 4 P.M. , when the sun was hot and shining on the kraal .
Every opportunity was thus given to the flies to feed on both the infected and the healthy calves .
The other normal calf was utilised as a control , being kept continuously in the fly-free compartment and so protected absolutely from the bites of blood-sucking flies .
No effort was made to rid any of the calves of ticks , body lice , etc. , therefore , if the normal calves which daily entered the fly-compartment with the infected calf contracted Trypanosoma infection whilst the control calf remained healthy , then the Tabanus under experiment was in all probability the transmitting agent .
If the control calf also contracted the disease , then some agency other than Tabanidse , such as ticks , etc. , would probably be responsible .
Lastly , if all the normal calves escaped infection , then presumably the Tabanus under experiment did not transmit the disease .
The Tabanidse did not appear to live more than three or four days , in spite of the presence of running water , shrubs and foliage in the fly-compartment .
The majority died within the first 48 hours .
A few fed greedily on the calves for 12 to 18 hours after capture .
1910 .
] as Carriers of Trypanosoma pecorum .
The normal calves and the control calf were examined bi-weekly for trypanosomes throughout the experiment , and for one month after its completion .
The infected calf was also examined bi-weekly ; Trypanosoma pecorum were always seen in its blood ; sometimes they were present in large numbers , sometimes scanty .
Table I gives the result of these experiments at a glance .
Table I. Species of Tabanus used .
Experiment No. of calves .
No. of days Tabanidse fed on calves .
Approximate No. of fly $ used .
Result .
Tabanus secedens 2304 \amp ; 2305 30 1500 Negative ; calves re(Walk .
) 2400 \amp ; 2401 mained healthy .
Tabanus fuscomargi- 43 2150 ) ) n natus ( Ricardo ) Tabanus thoracinus 2542 55 2650 .
if )\#187 ; ( Pal .
de Beauv .
) Remarks.\#151 ; It is seen that the Tabanidse had ample opportunity to feed indiscriminately on the infected and healthy calves over a considerable period of time .
Large numbers of flies were used , yet no normal calf contracted the disease .
The fact that the Tabanidse died within 48 hours of being put in the kraal does away with the possibility of a development of Trypanosoma pecorum in the flies .
These experiments , therefore , only prove that these flies do not transmit the trypanosome mechanically .
4 .
A Study of the Flagellates found in Tabanus Secedens , Tabanus Fuscomakginatus and Tabanus Thokacinus .
In this investigation two series of dissections were made .
In the first wild flies caught in the neighbourhood of the laboratory were dissected .
In the second series dissections were made of wild flies caught in the neighbourhood and introduced into the fly-compartment of the kraal , where they were used in the transmission experiments detailed above .
As wild flies were used throughout , it was necessary to carefully study the flagellates which may infect these flies , in order that parasites natural to the flies , such as Crithidia or Herpetomonas , should not be mistaken for developmental forms of pathogenic trypanosomes in the fly .
It should be noted here that the cattle which grazed in the neighbourhood where the flies were caught were healthy during the period that the investigations were being carried out .
In the first series of dissections 138 secedens and 49 Tabanus thoracinus were dissected .
Of the Tahanus secedens 7 ( 5 per cent. ) showed a heavy infection of flagellates in the hind-gut , rectum , and proctodaeum .
The mouth parts and remainder of the alimentary tract contained no 2 d 2 356 Col. Sir D. Bruce and others .
Tabanidce [ Dec. 20 , flagellates .
Of the Tabanus thoracinus dissected , flagellates were found in the hind-gut , rectum and proctodeeum of 13 ( 26'5 per cent. ) .
The mouth parts and remainder of the gut were negative for flagellates .
No Tabanus fuscomarginatus were dissected in this series .
The flagellates found in the hindermost portions of the intestines of both these species were similar .
Two main types predominated .
Type 1 , Oval , Flagellated Parasites .
A. Living , Unstained .
* This type is very active , and darts rapidly across the field when free .
More commonly large masses of these flagellates are seen to be irregularly grouped together , the flagella of the outermost ones rapidly vibrating .
This type divides by longitudinal fission , and forms undergoing this process are commonly seen .
Bright points can often be made out in the body-substance of these parasites ( chromatin granules ) ; no definite vacuoles could be seen .
Masses of these flagellates sometimes occupied a whole field .
B. Fixed and Stained .
These flagellates contain a distinct macro- and micro-nucleus .
The macro-nucleus is large , roughly circular and sometimes diffused .
It lies about the centre of the body of the parasite , often occupying its whole width .
The micro-nucleus is circular or rod-shaped , is placed on the flagellar side of and close to the macro-nucleus .
The flagellum arises from the micro-nucleus , it is short and projects from the body of the parasite , the protoplasm of the body being often prolonged for a short distance along the flagellum .
There is no undulating membrane .
Chromatin granules , irregular in number and size , are often to be seen in the vicinity of the macro-nucleus ( Plate 16 , figs. 1 to 6 ) .
Type 2 , Circular , Non-Flagellated Parasites .
These parasites contained macro- and micro-nuclei .
The drawing clearly indicates their structure ( Plate 16 , tigs .
7 to 14 ) .
In the fresh preparations they were motionless .
In the second series of dissections of the Tabanidae which had been liberated in the fly-compartment of the kraal , 50 Tabanus 24 Tabanus thoracinus , and 37 Tabanus fuscomarginatus were dissected .
Of the 50 Tabanus secedens , 2 were infected with flagellates ( 4 per cent. ) .
Of the 24 Tabanus thoracinus , 1 was infected ( 4 per cent. ) .
No Tabanus 1910 .
] as Carriers of Trypanosoma pecorum .
357 fuscomarginatus contained parasites .
The three infected flies all contained flagellates in the hind-gut , rectum , and proctodseum , which resembled Types 1 and 2 mentioned above .
Type 3 , Elongated , Flagellated Parasites .
One fly , a Tabanus secedens , contained many flagellates , of a different variety , in the fore-gut , mid-gut , and fore-part of hind-gut .
In the fresh preparation this third type of flagellate was motile , and possessed a poorly developed undulating membrane , which was thrown into short folds .
The movements of the parasite were active , but not translatory to any great extent .
The accompanying drawing ( Plate 16 , figs. 15 to 24 ) so clearly show the structure of this type in the stained state that further description is unnecessary .
Type 3 occurs principally in the thick-walled mid-gut of the fly and , to a lesser extent , in the fore-gut and fore-part of the hind-gut .
Types 1 and 2 occur only in the hind-gut , rectum , and proctodaeum of the fly .
Inoculation Experiments carried out with these Parasites .
Expt. 2404 .
April 23 , 1910.\#151 ; -White rat inoculated , intra-peritoneally , with contents of hind-gut , rectum , and proctodseum- of a wild Tabanus secedens .
This fly had been in fly-compartment of kraal ; it was heavily infected with Type 1 of the parasite .
Result.\#151 ; Negative .
Rat examined for one month after injection .
Expt. 2405 .
April 23 , 1910.\#151 ; White rat inoculated , intra-peritoneally , with contents of fore-gut and mid-gut of a wild Tabanus secedens .
This fly had been in kraal , and its fore-gut and mid-gut were swarming with Type 3 of the parasite in an active state .
Result.\#151 ; Negative .
Rat examined for oue month after the injection .
Expt. 2411 .
April 27 , 1910.\#151 ; White rat inoculated , intra-peritoneally , with hind-gut , rectum , and proctodseum of a wild Tabanus secedens .
This fly had never been in kraal .
It was heavily infected with Type 2 of the parasite .
Result.\#151 ; Negative .
Rat examined for one month after injection .
Expt. 2412 .
April 27 , 1910.\#151 ; White rat inoculated , intra-peritoneally , with hind-gut , rectum , and proctodseum of a wild Tabanus secedens .
This fly had never been in kraal ; it was heavily infected with Type 1 of the parasite .
Result.\#151 ; Negative .
Rat examined for one month after injection .
358 Tabanidce as Carriers of Trypanosoma pecorum .
Expt. 2412b .
July 4 , 1910.\#151 ; White rat inoculated , intra^peritoneally , with the pooled citrated contents of the hind-gut , .
rectum* and proctodseum of two wild These flies had never been in kraal and were heavily infected with Types 1 and 2 of the parasite .
Result.\#151 ; Negative .
Eat examined for one month after injection .
Conclusions .
1 .
Tabanus secedens , Tabanus thoracinu and Tabanus fuscomarginatus appeared to be unable to transmit Trypanosoma pecorum from infected to healthy cattle by the mechanical method of transmission .
2 .
Owing to the short life of these tabanids in captivity it is impossible , from the above experiments , to state whether they can convey the disease ( Trypanosoma pecorum ) after a period of development of the trypanosome in the fly .
; 3 .
We believe the three types of flagellates found in Tabanus secedens and Tabanus thoracinus to be various stages in the development of a harmless Crithidium in these flies .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 16 .
Smear preparation of hind-gut , rectum and proctodaeum of a Tabanus , stained Giemsa , x 2000 , Figs. 1\#151 ; 6 , Type 1 , oval , flagellated parasites .
Fig. 4 is a dividing form of this type . .
Fig. 1 shows the most common form of this type .
Fig. 6 represents an irregular mass of the parasites ; these masses often contain very large numbers of the parasites .
The flagella are poorly stained in these preparations , and so do not show up well ( Expt. 2412 ) .
Figs. 7\#151 ; 14 , Type 2 , circular , non-flagellated parasites .
Made from smear preparations of the rectum and proctodseum of a Tabanus secedens ( Expt. 2411 ) .
Figs. 15-\#151 ; 24 , Type 3 , elongated , flagellated parasites .
Figs. 17 and 18 show the most typical forms of this type .
Fig. 19 is a stout atypical form , which was not common .
Fig. 15 represents a form which would appear to be reverting to Type 1 .
Fig. 16 is a dividing form .
The parasites figured in Figs. 15\#151 ; 24 were obtained from a smear made of the , mid-gut of a wild Tabanus secedens which had been in the fly-compartment of the cattle kraal ( Expt. 2405 ) .

