VII .
" On Approach caused by Vibration .
" By FREDERICK GUTHRIE .
Communicated by Prof. G. G. STOKES , Sec. R. S. lReceived August 26 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) The author observes that when a vibrating tuning-fork is held near to a piece of cardboard , the latter has a tendency to approach the fork .
Starting from this experiment , a series of experiments is described having for their object the determination of the cause and conditions of the fundamental observed fact .
It is shown that no sensible permanent air-currents , having their source at the fork 's surface , are established ; and hence that the approach of the card to the fork is not due to the expansion of such currents as in M. Clement 's experiment .
The modifications are examined which Mr. Faraday 's surface-whirlwinds on a vibrating tuning-fork undergo when the fork vibrates in the neighbourhood of a sensibly rigid plane .
It is shown that a delicately suspended card approaches the fork when either of the three essential faces of the fork is presented to the card , and that the approach takes place from distances far exceeding the range of Mr. Faraday 's air-current .
That the action between the card and fork is mutual is shown by suspending the latter .
Also one vibrating fork tends to approach another in whatever sense their planes of vibration may be towards one another .
The mean tension of the air surrounding a vibrating fork is examined by enclosing one limb of the fork in a glass tube .
It appears that the vibrating fork displaces air .
The question whether the equilibrium between two equal and opposite forces acting on a body is disturbed by submitting one of the forces to successive , rapid , equal , and opposite alterations in quantity , is answered in the negative by an experiment which shows that the equilibrium of a Cartesian diver is not disturbed by submitting the water in which it floats to vibration .
Various modifications are introduced into the nature of the surface s1869 .
] 93 which receives the vibrations , such as making it a narrow cylinder with one end closed , making it of cotton-wool , &amp;c. It is found that in all cases the suspended body approaches the vibrating one .
The author concludes that the effect of apparent attraction is due to atmospheric pressure , and that this pressure is due to undulatory dispersion .
It is suggested that the dispersion of the vibrations which constitute radiant heat may cause bodies to approach , being pushed not pulled .

