1882.J On the Critical Point of Mixed Gases .
IX .
" On the Critical Point of Mixed Gases .
" By Gerrard Ansdell , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor James Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. Received June 8 , 1882 .
Having on two previous occasions communicated to the Society papers on the physical constants of liquid hydrochloric acid gas and liquid acetylene , under which head I include the coefficients of compression and expansion , the critical points , and the volumes and tensions of the saturated vapour , it naturally led up to what promised to be a long investigation into the similar constants of other gases ; and , amongst other things , the behaviour of two or more gases in presence of each other , more particularly with regard to the alteration of the critical point , appeared to me of especial interest .
These experiments , which I commenced nearly two years ago , were unavoidably interrupted at the time , and I have only now been able to resume them .
This subject has latterly engaged the attention of many physicists and chemists , and , amongst others , both Andrews and Cailletet have examined to a certain extent the behaviour of gaseous mixtures , the former finding both the critical point and vapour-tension of cai'bonic acid considerably modified by the introduction of a small quantity of pure nitrogen , and the latter ( " Count .
Rend .
, " 90 , 210 ) noting the peculiar behaviour of carbonic acid with one-fifth its volume of air , the former appearing to mix completely with the latter at 130 atmospheres pressure and 5''5 C. , forming a homogeneous mixture .
More recently Amagat ( " Count .
Rend .
, " 89 , 1879 ) and Roth ( " Wiedemann , " N.F. , 2 , 1880 ) have contributed exhaustive papers on the deviation of gases from Mariotte 's law .
Clausius and Van der Waals have introduced new formulae for calculating the critical point , Winkelman ( Berichte , H.F. , 2 , 1880 ) , Hannay ( " Proe .
Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 33 ) and others have been examining the relation between the different states of matter , and Ramsay and Pawlewski have investigated the behaviour of different liquid compounds with regard to their critical points , \amp ; c. ; the former took equal weights of pure benzene and ether , and found that the critical temperature and pressure of the mixture was just between those of the individual bodies , but as he evidently experimented with only the one mixture , his results do not bear much upon the present problem , for which these experiments were undertaken , namely , the variation of the critical points of different percentage mixtures of two or more gases .
Pawlewski s results , which seem to have an important bearing on the subject , I shall refer to more fully afterwards .
Before selecting any particular gases for investigation , there were VOL. XXXIV .
j Mr. G. Ansdell .
[ June 15 , several important points to be considered .
In the first place , it was advisable to select those gases which could not only be easily prepared , but whose physical constants had been thoroughly investigated ; it would be an advantage to use gases having comparatively low critical points , as the temperature would be much more easily kept constant , and would consequently contribute to the accuracy of the results ; but above all those gases should be chosen which would not be likely to react upon each other in a .liquid state , or at high temperatures and pressures , for this would modify the results considerably , from the probable formation of new compounds , \amp ; c. That this is likely to occur is shown in Professor Dewar 's experiments on the behaviour of carbonic acid in presence of other bodies ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " 1880 ) , where the carbonic acid often appeared to exist in a liquid state far above its critical point .
This was no doubt due to the formation of a new compound ; at least , as it could not be pure carbonic acid , we can only regard it as a compound of some kind formed under particular conditions of temperature and pressure , and this supposition seems to be confirmed by the experiment of carbonic acid in presence of camphor , where the camphor undoubtedly formed a new body , for we know how readily it combines with numerous substances such as hydrochloric acid , \amp ; c. , to form unstable compounds .
For these reasons I chose carbonic and hydrochloric acid gases , as they could be easily prepared , and their critical points had been very accurately determined , the former by Andrews , the latter by myself , besides being bodies most unlikely to be decomposed in each other 's presence , more especially as they are chemically saturated bodies , and therefore according to the new chemical theory , most unlikely to form any addition or molecular compound .
The following method was adopted in the experiments , the Cailletet pump being used as described in my former papers .
The carbonic acid was made by dropping pure strong sulphuric acid into a saturated solution of potash bicarbonate , being afterwards washed with distilled water , and dried by passing through four ( J -tubes with pounded glass and sulphuric acid .
To check the readings of the air manometer ( which was the same used in my former experiments ) and also the purity of the gas , a tube was filled with the pure gas alone , and the tensions at different temperatures and the critical point were found to agree very well with Andrews ' results .
The hydrochloric acid gas was prepared by the action of strong sulphuric acid on pure chloride of ammonium , as described in my last paper ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 ) , and was washed and dried with the usual precautions ; a tube was also filled with the pure gas to begin with , and the critical point and tensions of the saturated vapour agreed as nearly as possible with those obtained by myself two years ago . . .
The purity of the individual gases and the accuracy of the air mano- 1882 .
] On the Critical Point of Mixed Gases .
meter having thus been proved , an ordinary Cailletet tube was chosen , having a capillary part about 2 millims. in diameter , and a total capacity of about 50 cub. centims. This was accurately calibrated , and then filled with the hydrochloric acid gas , by passing it through in a regular stream for about four or five hours ; after sealing off , the bent end was placed under pure dry mercury , under the receiver of an air-pump , and a sufficient quantity of the gas withdrawn to make room for any amount of carbonic acid gas required to be introduced ; the introduction was effected by passing a very fine capillary tube , bent at a particular angle and through which pure carbonic acid was streaming , round the bend of the tube while it remained under mercury , great \#166 ; care being taken to prevent the slightest trace of air from getting in .
When sufficient carbonic acid had been introduced the tube was transferred to one of the iron bottles containing pure dry mercury , which was connected with another iron bottle containing the air manometer , and with the pump in the usual way .
The critical point of the mixture was first determined , and then the tensions of the saturated vapour at different temperatures , together with the fractional volume to which the gas was reduced at the point of liquefaction , and also the relation between the liquid and gaseous volumes at different heights in the tube .
At the end of the experiments the tube was carefully lifted out of the bottle , the outside of it well cleaned and dried with bibulous paper , and the end of it placed under distilled water .
The small quantity of mercury in the bend of the tube was shaken out , and the water allowed to rush up the tube and absorb the hydrochloric acid gas ; the solution was afterwards made up to 500 cub. centims. with distilled water , and 50 cub. centims. titrated with standard nitrate of silver , which gave the quantity of chlorine equal to the amount of hydrochloric acid in the tube .
The small residue of mercury was dried and weighed , and the space it occupied subtracted from the total capacity of the tube , the remainder , after correction for temperature and pressure , being of course the volume of the mixed gases ; from this was subtracted the volume of the hydrochloric acid gas calculated from the amount of chlorine obtained by titration , the remainder being carbonic acid , with , of course , any slight impurity of air or other inert gas that might be present .
The following tables give the tensions of the saturated vapour , at different temperatures , of the different percentage mixtures of pure hydrochloric acid and carbonic acid gases .
They are also plotted in the form of curves on Plate I. Mr. Gr .
Ansdell .
[ June 15 , III .
IY .
T. P. T. P. T. P. T. P. 0 ... .
27-84 0 vi 28-86 0 . .
33-17 0 . .
31-89* 15 . .
, 40-66 13-8 . . .
39-86 16-3. .
, 50-09 19-0 .
, .
51-93 : 27 . . .
54-22 25-5. .
, 52-77 25-4. .
63-98 25-6 .
, .
60-4637-5 . .
70-28 38-0 . .
67-36 34 0 . .
77-02 46 . . .
82-26 44-0 .
, , 76-23 43-2 . .
90-03 47*2 . . .
92-21 45-5 . .
80-52 451 39-5 . .
80-23 Y. YI .
VII .
T. p. T. P. T. P. 0 .vc. .
32-72 0 ... .
34-56 0 ... .
34-65175 50-73 18-8 55-79 18-8 ... 56-44 26-6 ... .
63-31 25-5 ... .
65-68 24-9 ... .
67-27 35-0 76-64 37-6 ... .
79-14 38-0 81-35 33-5 77-69 32-4 ... .
77-23 1= mixture containing 17"18 per cent. C02 .
11= 99 \gt ; 9 19-37 99 111= 99 99 25-48 99 IV= 99 99 42-44 99 v= 99 99 45-67 99 VI= 99 99 74-18 ?
9 VII= 99 99 82-14 99 T=temperature of mixed gases .
P=pressure in atmospheres .
C. P=critical point .
The critical points of the different mixtures are also plotted as a curve on Plate II , where the ordinates represent the percentage amount of carbonic acid in the mixture , and the abscissae represent the temperature in degrees ( centigrade ) .
Now Pawlewski , in a short abstract of a paper ( " Berichte , " No. 4,1882 ) , describes a number of experiments he had made with the isomeric ethers , the alcohols , \amp ; c. , and gives an equation to represent the critical point of mixtures of two or more liquids belonging to the same class of organic bodies , in terms of their respective critical points and relative weights , from which it would appear that the critical point of mixed bodies is directly proportional to the percentage composition of the mixture , when the origin of temperature taken is that of the body having the lowest critical point .
He also mentions that this would probably be the case with the liquid form of substances which are gaseous at ordinary temperatures ; but from our knowledge of liquefied gases , their physical constants are so much exaggerated with regard to their compression and expansion , \amp ; c. , 118 On the Critical Point of Mixed Gases .
[ June 15r very regular curve , all the values being below those of Pawlewski's* until a point is reached where the mixture contains about 17 per cent , of carbonic acid , within which limit it evidently approaches to Paw-lewski 's values .
The reason for this apparent anomaly can only be explained by the assumption that a small trace of air or other impurity was present in the tube , for we know from Andrews ' and my own experiments , that even the -g-J-gth part of air makes a considerable-difference both in the critical point and tension of a gas .
It is also conceivable that a trace of air may have more effect in a mixture of two gases , than upon either individually , and this would consequently complicate matters considerably , when a mixture of several different gases is used .
It was principally on this account that tensions of the saturated vapour of the mixture at different temperatures was taken , so as to judge of the amount of impurity in the-gases , and whether it materially affected the results .
The curves on Plate I represent these tensions , the ordinates being the pressure in atmospheres , and the abscis3se the temperature in degrees C. The corresponding curves for pure hydrochloric acid and carbonic acid are also shown , but although all the curves for the different mixtures , except one , fall between the two , still the distances-are evidently not strictly proportional to the percentage composition , which can only be explained by the presence of a small quantity of air ; now , as this impurity must have been infinitesimal , it is interesting and curious to see how much it has modified the tensions of the saturated vapour .
No. Ill should , of course , have come between No. II and No. IV , and must have had rather a larger amount of impurity than the others , and this is also the case in No. VII , which actually shows a tension higher than that of the most volatile constituent of the mixture , which , of course , is unprecedented .
Having satisfied myself that these apparent anomalies were really due to impurity , I filled another tube with extreme care , which contained the same relative proportions of the gases , within '2 of a per cent , as No. VII , and found that it now assumed its proper place below the curve for carbonic acid , the critical point , however , being scarcely altered at all , showing that an amount of impurity , sufficient to materially modify the tensions of the vapour , had very little effect on the critical point .
The present position of the question therefore appears to be , that the critical points of mixtures of liquefied gases cannot be expressed by Pawlewski 's formula , the maximum difference between his calculated value and mine , which occurred in a mixture of equal volumes of the gases , being as much as 3'*6 C. This is '2 or 25 per cent , of the whole difference between the critical points of the two gasesr hydrochloric acid being 51'*25 , and carbonic acid 31 ' C. 1882 .
] On an Arrangement of the Electric Arc , Sfc .
But although these experiments seem to lead to this conclusion , more extended researches with other gases of the same nature , using the same precautions , will have to be made , before the real form of the curve can be ascertained .
This investigation has been carried out in the Laboratory of the \#166 ; Royal Institution .
x. " On an Arrangement of the Electric Arc for the Study of the Radiation of Vapours , together with Preliminary Results .
" By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received June 8 , 1882 .
In previous papers* we have described various devices for facilitating the study of the reversal of the lines of metallic vapour .
The first series of observations were made by examining the spectrum of the interior of iron or porcelain tubes filled with vapour and heated to the highest temperature of a coke furnace , the subsequent series being eye or photographic records of the radiation of the electric arc surrounded by metallic vapour in the middle of blocks or tubes of lime or magnesia .
By enclosing the arc in a crucible of lime or magnesia we have found its steadiness very greatly increased , and the mass of metallic vapour which can be maintained at a temperature approaching to that of the arc much enlarged , but it cannot be said that that temperature is at all under control , and the walls of the crucible are almost always cooler than the contents .
By the arrangement we have now to describe we are able to make observations through a long range of temperature , as the temperature rises and as it falls , and so to trace the influence of temperature in many cases in which the extent of that influence was before doubtful .
The temperature attainable is doubtless far below that of the arc , but still it is quite sufficient to maintain iron and aluminium in the state of vapour , and show the reversal of the lines of these elements with singular sharpness .
The temperature of the interior is sufficiently high to transform the diamond into coke , even in a current of hydrogen , and the result may be taken as proving that the temperature is above that of the oxyhydrogen flame .
The apparatus employed is thus constructed : A rod of carbon , a in the figure , 15 millims. in diameter , perforated down its axis with a cylindrical hole 4 millims. in diameter , is passed through a hole in a lime * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " " On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Yapours , " vols .
28 , 29 , 32 .
-

