IV .
" On the Fracture of Brittle and Viscous Solids by Shearing .
' " By Sir W. THOMsON , , F.R.S. Received January 2 , 1869 .
On recently visiting Mr. Kirkaldy 's testing works , the Grove , Southwark , I was much struck with the appearances presented by some specimens of iron and steel round bars which had been broken by torsion .
Some of them were broken right across , as nearly as may be in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the bar .
On examining these I perceived that they had all yielded through a great degree to distortion before having broken .
I therefore looked for bars of hardened steel which had been tested similarly , and found many beautiful specimens in M ?
r. Kirkaldy 's museum .
These , without exception , showed complicated surfaces of fracture , which were such as to demonstrate , as part of the whole effect in each case , a spiral fissure round the circumference of the cylinder at an angle of about 45 ?
to the length .
This is just what is to be expected when we consider that if ABDC ( fig. 1 ) represent an infinitesimal square on the surface of a round bar with its sides AC and BD parallel to the axis of the cylinder , before torsion , and AB D ' CO the figure into which this square becomes distorted just before rupture , the diagonal AD has become elongated to the length A D ' , and the diagonal BC has become contracted to the length B C ' , and that therefore there must be maximum tension everyFig , 1 .
Fig. 2 .
C ( C _ __ C J ; D / 7_ Dt A B.A.'p--where , across the spiral of which B C ' is an infinitely short portion .
But the specimens are remarkable as showing in softer or more viscous solids a tendency to break parallel to the surfaces of " shearing " A B , C D , rather than in surfaces inclined to these at an angle of 45 ? .
Through the kindness of Mr. Kirkaldy , his specimens of both kinds are now exhibited to the Royal Society .
01 a smaller scale I have made experiments on round bars of brittle sealing-wax , hardened steel , similar steel tempered to various degrees of softness , brass , copper , lead .
Sealing-wax and hard steel bars exhibited the spiral fracture .
All the other bars , without exception , broke as l3Mr .
Kirkaldy 's soft steel bars , right across , in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the bar .
These experiments were conducted by Mr. Walter Deed and Mr. Adam Logan in the Physical Laboratory of the University of Glasgow ; and specimens of the bars exhibiting the two kinds of fracture are sent to the Royal Society along with this statement .
I also send photographs exhibiting the spiral fracture of a hard steel cylinder , and the " shearing " fracture of a lead cylinder by torsion .
These experiments demonstrate that continued " shearing " parallel to one set of planes , of a viscous solid , developes in it a tendency to break more easily parallel to these planes than in other directions , or that a viscous solid , at first isotropic , acquires " cleavage-planes " parallel to the planes of shearing .
Thus , if CD and AB ( fig. 2 ) represent in section two sides of a cube of a viscous solid , and if , by " shearing " parallel to these planes , CD be brought to the position C ' D ' , relatively to AB supposed to remain at rest , and if this process be continued until the material breaks , it breaks parallel to AB and C ' D ' .
The appearances presented by the specimens in Mr. Kirkaldy 's museum attracted my attention by their bearing on an old controversy regarding Forbes 's theory of glaciers .
Forbes had maintained that the continued shearing motion which his observations had proved in glaciers , must tend to tear them by fissures parallel to the surfaces of " shearing .
" The correctness of this view for a viscous solid mass , such as snow becoming kneaded into a glacier , or the substance of a formed glacier as it works its way down a valley , or a mass of debris of glacier-ice , reforming as a glacier after disintegration by an obstacle , seems strongly confirmed by the experiments on the softer metals described above .
I-opkins had argued against this view , that , according to the theory of elastic solids , as stated above , and represented by the first diagram , the fracture ought to be at an angle of 45 ?
to the surfaces of " shearing .
" There can be no doubt of the truth of Hopkins 's principle for an isotropic elastic solid , so brittle as to break by shearing before it has become distorted through more than a very small angle ; and it is illustrated in the experiments on brittle sealing-wax and hardened steel which I have described .
The various specimens of fractured elastic solids now exhibited to the Society may be looked upon with some interest , if only as illustrating the correctness of each of the two seemingly discrepant propositions of those two distin .
guished men .

