Data for the Problem of Evolution in .
333 ( 3 ) These elements exhibit gradations in properties such as refractive index , atomic volume , melting-point , and boiling-point , which find a fitting place on diagrams showing such periodic relations .
Some of these diagrams are reproduced in the original paper .
Thus the refractive equivalents are found at the lower apices of the descending curves ; the atomic volumes , on the ascending branches , in appropriate positions ; and the melting- and boiling-points , like the refractivities , occupy positions at the lower apices .
Although , however , such regularity is to be noticed , similar to that which is found with other elements , we had entertained hopes that the simple nature of the molecules of the inactive gases might have thrown light on the puzzling incongruities of the periodic table .
That hope has been disappointed .
We have not been able to predict accurately any one of the properties of one of these gases from a knowledge of those of the others ; an approximate guess is all that can be made .
The conundrum of the periodic table has yet to be solved .
'Data for the Problem of Evolution in Man .
VI.\#151 ; A First Study of the Correlation of the Human Skull .
" By Alice Lee , D.Sc .
, with some assistance from Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , University College , London .
Received July 13 , Bead November 15 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The substance of this paper was a thesis for the London D.Sc .
degree j it was shown to Professor Pearson , at whose suggestion considerable modifications were made , and a revision undertaken with a view to publication .
In order to deal exactly with the problem of evolution in man it is necessary to obtain in the first place a quantitative appreciation of the size , variation , and correlation of the chief characters in man for a number of local races .
Several studies of this kind have been already undertaken at University College .
These fall into two classes , ( i ) those that deal with a variety of characters in one local race , and ( ii ) those which study the comparative value of the constants from a variety of races .
Thus Dr. E. Warren has dealt with the long bones of the Naqada race , * Mr. Leslie Bramley-Moore has compared the regression equations for the long bones from a considerable number of races in a memoir not * ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 189 , p. 135 .
Dr. A. Lee and Prof. K. Pearson .
yet published , Professor Pearson has dealt with the regression equations for stature and long bones as applied to a variety of races .* Miss A. Whiteley has studied the correlation of certain joints of the hand , f and is investigating the correlation of the bones of the hand in a second local race ; Miss C. D. Fawcett has made a long series of measurements on the Naqada skulls , and correlated their chief characters ; the present memoir , on the other hand , deals with only a few characters in the skull , comparing , however , the results obtained from a variety of local races .
It is thus related to Miss Fawcett 's work much as Mr. Bramley-Moore 's to Dr. Warren 's , i.e. , it endeavours , by selecting a few characters and testing them , to ascertain how far results obtained for one local race are valid for a second .
In Professor Pearson 's memoir on the reconstruction of the stature of prehistoric races , results obtained from one local race were then extended to a great variety of other races .
The degree of accuracy in this procedure can only be fully ascertained when the data now being collected in both English and German anatomical institutes are available for calculation .
The skull , however , differs very widely from the stature and long bones ; for , while these have a very high degred of correlation in all local races , the chief characters of the skull are very loosely correlated , and such correlation as they possess varies in a remarkable manner with sex and race .
This was first indicated by Professor Pearson it has been amply illustrated in the measurements of Miss Fawcett , and is confirmed in a recently published memoir by Dr. Franz Boas .
It may be said that this want of correlation in the parts of the skull is the origin of its great importance for the anthropologist ; it is the source of its personal and racial individuality .
But this anthropological advantage is , from the standpoint of organic evolution , a great disadvantage .
Cuvier introduced the conception of correlation with the idea of reconstructing from a single bone the whole skeleton and even the outward form of an extinct animal , but the great want of correlation between the parts of the skull , and between the skull and other parti of the human skeleton , renders quantitative reconstruction\#151 ; -and this is the really scientific reconstruction\#151 ; of one character of the skull from a second , or of the skull and parts of the skeleton from each other extremely difficult , if not impossible , for all but .
a very few characters , jg Among these characters one of the most feasible to deal with , and one of the most useful , is the capacity of the skull .
This is correlated to a fairly high degree ( although to nothing like the same extent as the long bones among themselves ) with the maximum length and breadth , with the total and auricular heights , and with the horizontal and * ' Phil. Trans./ A. , vol. 192 , p. 169 .
+ ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 65 , p. 126 .
1 + ' Phil. Trans./ A , vol. 187 , p. 279 , and ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 60 , p. 495 .
1 Data for the Problem of Evolution in Man .
335 vertical circumferences of the skull .
The present memoir deals in the main with the problem of the reconstruction of the capacity from these characters .
| .
Three fundamental problems arise in the theory of reconstruction , i.e. , the determination of the probable value of an unknown character from a known and measurable one , or from several such .
Namely:\#151 ; I. The reconstruction of the individual from data for his own race .
II .
The reconstruction of the average value of [ a character in one local race from data determined for a second local race .
III .
The determination of the probable value in an individual of characters not measurable during life from characters which are measurable .
These three problems are all dealt with for the special character ; capacity of the skull in the present paper .
Their importance may be indicated by the following considerations ( a. ) Many , especially of the more ancient and accordingly more interesting skulls , are too fragile or too fragmentary to allow of their capacity being directly determined .
( b. ) The methods for directly determining capacity are still not only very diverse , but divergent in result , and from the physical standpoint crude and inexact .
In the concordat of the German craniologists \#151 ; the Frankfurter Verstdndigung\#151 ; the point was left for future consideration , and so it has remained for many years .
The capacities of series of skulls determined during the past forty years in France , England , and Germany are , we are convinced , not comparable , at least if the argument from the comparison is to depend on a difference of 30 to 40 cm.3 While the same observer using different methods may be trained to get results within 4 to 6 cm.3 for the same skull , different observers , equally careful , using the same method , will easily get results for the same series diverging by 20 to 30 and even more cubic centimetres .
Shortly , the personal equation-involved in the ; packing in the skull and in the measuring vessel\#151 ; is very large .
Accordingly a regression equation for the capacity as based on external measurements may , if deduced from a sufficiently large range of series measured by careful independent observers , give results fairly free from the error of personal equation and this sensibly as ; correct as , or more correct than , direct measurement when we require I the Inean capacity of a series .
( c. ) It is impossible to obtain a large series of skulls belonging to i known individuals with a classified measure of intellectual ability .
Actually we have only a few skulls of men of great intellectual power , r sometimes preserved because they were large , and to compare with these I the skulls of the unknown and often the ill-nourished , which reach the 336 Data for the Problem of Evolution in Man .
anatomical institutes.* Accordingly it is an investigation of considerable interest to compare the probable capacity of the skulls of living persons with their roughly appreciable intellectual grade .
It is only by such a comparison that we can hope to discover whether the size and shape of the skull is to any extent correlated with brain power .
1 In the course of the memoir it is shown that the auricular height of the skull is a better measurement for determining skull capacity than the total height ; that the circumferences of the skull , while highly correlated with its capacity , give regression equations which vary widely from one to another closely-allied race ; that linear regression equations involving length , breadth , and auricular height , while giving fairly good results for individuals within the local race , have very divergent coefficients as we pass from local race to local race ; that the cephalic index has very little correlation with capacity at all ( as a rule what there is may be summed up in the words : In a brachy-cephalic race the rounder the skull the greater the capacity , in a dolichocephalic race the narrower the skull the greater the capacity\#151 ; the greater capacity following the emphasis of the racial character ) ; finally , that the correlation of capacity with the triple product of length , breadth , and height gives a regression equation which is fairly constant from local race to local race , and is accordingly the best available .
From this and other equations individual and racial reconstructions are made , and the deviations between the actual and predicted capacities in randomly chosen series of skulls are tabulated .
The mean error made in the reconstruction of the individual capacity by the best formulae is 3 to 4 per cent. , the maximum error , although of course infrequent , may even be 10 per cent. For the reconstruction of the mean capacity of a race , the mean error is about 1'2 per cent. , with a maximum error of 2'5 per cent. If these errors appear large to the craniologist , we would remind him that his search for an absolutely correct formula giving cranial capacity from external measurements is the pursuit of a Will-o ' the-wisp .
The theory of probability shows us exactly the sort of errors such formulae are liable to , and teaches us how to select the best .
The whole basis of the theory of evolution , the variability of one character , even with fixed values for a number of | others , would be upset if any such absolute formula were forthcoming .
5 What we have to do is to select a few organs as highly correlated as possible , but , having done this , it has been shown elsewhere that wei shall not sensibly decrease the error of our prediction by increasing the number of organs upon which the estimate is based . !
Accordingly we do not believe that sensibly better reconstruction formulae than those * This argument applies also , in even an intensified degree , to the determinations of brain weight .
f ' Phil. Trans. , ' A. , vol. 190 , p. 466 .
Total Eclipse of the Sun , May 28 , 1900 .
337 found will ever be forthcoming , for , as we have already observed , we know from Miss Fawcett 's wide series of skull correlations that we have practically chosen the organs of the highest correlation .
Better data for determining the equations will undoubtedly be available as further craniological measurements are made , or as the great mass already made are quantitatively reduced .
In the last place we turn to the third problem : the reconstruction of the capacity of the living head .
The memoir contains tables of the skull capacity of some sixty men , and also of some thirty women , whose relative intellectual ability can be more or less roughly appreciated .
It would be impossible to assert any marked degree of correlation between the skull capacities of these individuals and the current appreciation of their intellectual capacities .
One of the most distinguished of Continental anthropologists has less skull capacity than 50 per icent .
of the women students of Bedford College j one of our leading English anatomists than 25 per cent , of the same students .
There will , of course , be errors in our probable determinations , but different methods of appreciation lead to sensibly like results , and although we are dealing with skull capacity , and not brain weight , there is , we hold , in our data material enough to cause those to pause who associate relative brain weight either in the individual or the sex with relative intellectual power .
The correlation , if it exists , can hardly be large , and the true source of intellectual ability will , we are convinced , have to be sought elsewhere , in the complexity of the convolutions , in the variety and efficiency of the commissures , rather than in mere size or weight .
" Total Eclipse of the Sun , May 28 , 1900 .
Preliminary Account j of the Observations made by the Solar Physics Observatory Eclipse Expedition and the Officers and Men of H.M.S. ' Theseus , ' at Santa Pola .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.RS .
Received June 22 , 1900.\#151 ; Read at Joint Meeting of the Royal and Royal Astronomical Societies , June 28 , 1900 .
The observing station selected for my party was determined upon from information supplied by the Hydrographer , Rear-Admiral Sir W. J. L. Wharton , R.N. , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Santa Pola appeared likely to meet the requirements of a man-of-war , and without such assistance as a man-of-war can render , the manipulation of long focus prismatic | cameras in eclipse observations in a strange country is impracticable .
Santa Pola lies very near the central line of the eclipse , and good | anchorage was available , protected from some winds .

