An Active Modification of Nitrogen.\#151 ; VII.# By the Hon , R. J. Strutt , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Imperial College , South Kensington ( Received April 10 , 1916 .
) S 1 .
Introduction .
In previous papers attention has chiefly been paid to the properties of active nitrogen when produced .
The present one deals almost entirely with the circumstances of its production by the electric discharge .
The jar discharge is much the most efficient , but does not lend itself easily to quantitative investigation .
It is not easily maintained steady for any length of time , but there is a more fundamental difficulty than this , for measurements of current and potential with the jar discharge do not admit of any simple interpretation .
Each discharge lasts for a time which is very short compared with the intervals between discharges , and , when it does occur , it is oscillatory .
For these reasons attention has been given to the steady discharge obtained from a direct current dynamo machine .
This yields much less active nitrogen than the jar discharge , but still enough to admit of satisfactory observations oil many points .
The machine employed was made by Messrs. Evershed and Vignoles .
It consists of three magneto generators in series , direct driven by a motor .
At full speed the output is 15 milliamperes at 5000 volts .
This voltage was in excess of what was usually required .
Part of it was dropped on a steadying resistance , and it was further reduced by diminishing the speed of the driving motor .
The nitrogen used in these experiments was commercial bomb-nitrogen , allowed to stand over phosphorus , and then dried by phosphorus pentoxide .
It contains enough foreign gas to give the necessary catalytic action.f S 2 .
Various Regions in the Luminous Discharge .
It was of interest to compare the yield of active nitrogen by the various regions of the discharge , Crookes dark space , negative glow , Faraday dark space , and positive column .
For this purpose the apparatus of fig. 1 was set up .
The discharge was in a tube A , 18 mm. in diameter , between aluminium disc electrodes B and C , maintained at a fixed distance apart of 130 mm. by means of three thin glass rods , as shown .
The system was moved up and * I , ' Roy^TSoe .
Proc. , ' A , vol. 85 , p. 219 ; II , ibid. , vol. 86 , p. 56 ; III , ibid. , vol. 86 , p. 262 ; IV , ibid. , vol. 87 , p. 179 ; V , ibid. , vol. 88 , p. 539 ; VI , ibid. , vol. 91 , p. 303 .
t See YI , p. 312 .
An Active Modification of Nitrogen .
down at pleasure by a steel rod screwed into the lower ( cathode ) disc , and passing through a barometric column below .
It was necessary to cover the lower side of the cathode with a mica washer , and the upper part of the steel rod with a glass tube , in order to prevent discharge from these surfaces , and limit it to the space between B and C. Connection to the upper electrode C ( anode ) was made by a spiral spring of thin copper wire , as shown .
A regulated stream of nitrogen entered at D , and was drawn out by a Oaede molecular air pump at E , passing transversely across the discharge .
On its way to the pump the gas passed through the length of the observation tube E , in which the intensity of the glow could be estimated .
This tube was viewed end on , its length being about 30 cm .
perpendicular to the plane of the figure .
It was blackened on the outside everywhere except at the observation end , to screen off stray light from the discharge tube .
The eye was applied to a cardboard tube about 6 inches long , fitted over the end of the observation tube .
These precautions were necessary , since the afterglow luminosities to be estimated were somewhat feeble .
It was found that the intensity of the active nitrogen glow ( measuring probably the square of the number of active nitrogen molecules present in the observation tube ) depended very much on which part of the discharge was brought opposite the openings D , E. The results are best indicated -diagrammatically .
In fig. 2 the various features of the discharge at 4*5 mm. pressure are shown to scale , beginning with the narrow Crookes dark space on the left , and above them a curve , the ordinates of which are equal to the estimated glow intensities on an arbitrary scale .
-Fig* 3 gives similar data for 1*4 mm. pressure , when the dark space and negative glow have broadened out considerably .
The scale of intensity is r Hon. R. J. Strutt .
again arbitrary , and not the same as that of the previous figure .
The current passed was about 15 milliainperes in each case .
\#166 ; Fig. 2 .
Pressure , 4*5 ' mm. mercury .
Distances from cathode\#151 ; End of Crookes dark space , 1 mm. End of negative glow , 7 mm. End of Faraday dark space , 22 mm. End of positive column ( anode ) , 130 mm. Fig. 3 .
Pressure , 1*4 mm. mercury .
Distances from cathode\#151 ; End of Crookes dark space , 3 mm. End of negative glow , 50 mm. End of Faraday dark space , 70 mm. End of positive column ( anode ) , 130 mm. It will be noticed that the yield of active nitrogen is greatest in the neighbourhood of the cathode .
It diminishes as we proceed along the negative glow , falling almost to zero in the Faraday dark space .
It then rises again as we enter the positive column , along which it is constant .
It would be of interest to compare the yield of active nitrogen from the Crookes dark space with the yield from the region immediately outside it ; but this was not found practicable .
At the higher pressures difficulty arises from the narrowness of the Crookes dark space .
At pressures low enough to make this space say 1 cm .
broad , no active nitrogen afterglow can be detected at all ; and even apart from this , diffusion acts very freely at such An Active Modification of Nitrogen .
low pressures , and would tend to mix up the gases from different portions of the discharge , thus obscuring the question at issue .
S 3 .
Wide Discharge Tubes Compared with Narrow .
The next point investigated was the relative efficiency of wide and narrow discharge tubes .
The arrangement was as in fig. .
4 , the positive column passing successively through a tube A of 15 mm. and a tube B of 6 mm. diameter .
It was possible to pass the stream of nitrogen through either A or Fig. 4 .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
B at pleasure , by turning the three-way stopcock C. The course of the gas stream is shown by the arrows .
The observation tube for the glow was as before .
It was found that the intensity of the glow was much greater , about double , when the narrower tube was in use .
These tubes were not narrow enough to appreciably restrict the flow of gas , thus we may conclude that the same quantity flowed per second through each .
The velocity of the stream is greater in the narrow tube , and therefore the gas remains in it for a shorter time , but in spite of this the yield of active nitrogen is notably greater .
Experiments were made at the same time to compare the potential gradients in the wide and narrow portions of the tube .
The pairs of wires DE , FGf , could alternatively be connected with an electrostatic voltmeter by means of a suitable mercury key of high insulation .
It is generally admitted that though this method is unsatisfactory for exploring the potential gradient in the Crookes dark space , it gives trustworthy results in the positive column .
The mean of several consistent readings gave for the potential gradient in the narrower tube 87*8 volts per cm .
and in the wider one 86*6 volts per cm .
The current was 13 milliamperes , and the pressure in the tube about 6 mm. of mercury .
Under these conditions the afterglow produced had about double the intensity when the gas passed through the narrower tube .
These relations were not appreciably altered when the electric current was commutated .
It is , therefore , indifferent whether the ( positive ) electric current travels in the same direction as the gas stream or in the opposite direction .
It will be seen that the potential gradients were very nearly the same in the tubes A and B. Previous experimenters who have made similar measurements have usually found a distinctly higher potential gradient in the narrower tubes .
The current in these experiments is much larger than has generally been used , and the nitrogen probably purer , for the continuous flow of gas prevents contamination by gases given off by the electrodes .
These circumstances may account for the difference .
At all events , under the conditions used , the potential gradient in the narrow tube is but very little higher than^that in the wider one .
Consequently the larger yield of active nitrogen cannot be attributed to the potential gradient .
It would seem rather to be connected more directly with the greater current density .
The An Active Modification of Nitrogen .
great superiority of jar discharges in generating active nitrogen may perhaps be considered to fall into line with this : for the duration of the jar discharges as observed in a rotating mirror is extremely small compared with the intervals between successive discharges , and therefore the instantaneous current density very high .
S 4 .
Effect of Varying Length of Discharge Traversed .
Destruction of Active Nitrogen in the Discharge .
The current was sent between fixed electrodes A and B , fig. 5 .
The stream of gas , however , could be introduced at various points along the length of the positive column of the discharge .
It emerged at C , where the glow-intensity was examined .
If , for instance , it was desired to compare the intensity of the glow when the gas traversed the lengths DC or EC , a three-way stopcock was arranged so as to introduce the stream of gas at D or E alternatively , with rapid and easy transition to and fro by turning the stopcock .
The other apertures were stopped while this test was being made .
Then the stopcock , which was attached merely by short thick-walled rubber connections , was transferred to a different pair of apertures and the comparison repeated .
In this way it was established that with a tube 1*2 cm .
in diameter , gas pressure 6 mm. , current 15 milliamperes , distinctly more effect was produced by sending the gas 12 cm .
along the positive column than by sending it only 6 cm .
; but 12 cm .
was about the useful limit , for 24 cm .
of length did not give distinctly more effect than 12 cm .
The fact that a limit of useful length is reached in this way distinctly indicates that the discharge can not only produce active nitrogen , but can also destroy it .
It vas , however , thought to be of interest to prove this more directly .
An experiment for this purpose is shown in fig. 6 .
The gas stream enters near the cathode A. It traverses the positive column in the tube B , 4 mm. diameter , in which a considerable amount of active nitrogen is generated .
At C it emerges to a wider tube , along Lw B Fig. 5 .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
which it passes to the observation vessel F , where the afterglow intensity is observed .
Either D or E can he made anode , the exchange being quickly TO PUMP NITROGEN Fig. 6 .
effected by a suitable switch .
When D is in use the stream of gas made active in B has to traverse the positive column in the wide tube DC , and this has the effect of partially destroying the active nitrogen formed in B* For it is found that the afterglow is less intense in F when D is anode than when E is anode .
This can only mean that the discharge in DE has a destructive effect .
As we have already seen , in a long tube the concentration of active nitrogen reaches a limiting value , which must indicate that a point has been reached where the rate of destruction is equal to the rate of formation .
For discharge in the wide tube this limiting concentration is lower than for the narrow one ; thus the discharge in the wide tube lowers the concentration instead of raising it .
A second form of experiment illustrates the point still more strikingly .
The gas stream traverses in succession two tubes , A and B ( fig. 7 ) .
In A it is made strongly active by a jar discharge , and , if this tube alone is in action , a very strong afterglow is obtained in the observation tube C. But , if an independent uncondensed discharge ( steady current from dynamo machine ) is passed through B , the glow in C is almost destroyed , to be restored when the current through B is broken .
This experiment is the same in principle as the last^tme , but , by taking advantage of the greater efficiency of the jar discharge , the effect is made still more striking .
It will be seen that the amount of active nitrogen generated under given An Active Modification of Nitrogen .
conditions depends on complicated conditions .
The rate of formation and the rate of destruction are both involved , and it may be that these do not vary together when the character of the discharge is altered .
The comparison is simplest when only a thin stratum of discharge is traversed , as in the experiments of S 2 .
In this case the rate of formation is the important factor .
S 5 .
Traces of Oxygen Affect the Afterglow Profoundly .
Do they Simultaneously Affect the Discharge Potential ?
Since the production of active nitrogen is profoundly influenced by the presence of a foreign gas such as oxygen , * it seemed of interest to determine whether or not such an addition would influence the discharge potential .
It was already known from the investigations of Warburgt that a trace of oxygen affects the cathode fall of potential in nitrogen considerably , but it was desirable to repeat the experiment with simultaneous observation of the afterglow intensity , so as to see if the same minute quantity of oxygen as suffices to produce the best afterglow would also affect the cathode fall .
The nitrogen used in this experiment was purified in the manner described in YI , p. 306 , with one slight modification .
Instead of using the liquid alloy of sodium and potassium to remove oxygen , sodium alone was used ; the sodium was dry , i.e. it had never been stored in oil .
The glow was reduced very greatly , though , as before , not completely .
Such nitrogen was allowed to pass through the discharge tube , and a small admixture of oxygen , amounting to 1/ 820 of the flow of nitrogen , could be admitted or shut off at pleasure .
For details I refer to the former paper .
J * YI , p. 308 .
+ 4 Wied .
Ann. , ' vol. 40 , p. 1 ( 1890 ) .
f VI , pp. 307-8 .
Hon. R J. Strutt .
For the experiments on the cathode fall of potential , the discharge tube had a long platinum cathode with an auxiliary platinum electrode about 1 cm .
from it ; the potential difference between this and the cathode could be read on an electrostatic voltmeter .
The positive column was confined in a narrow tube , and the afterglow intensity could be observed as usual .
It was found that the cathode fall was affected in a notable manner by the oxygen admission , which at the same time brightened up the afterglow to a marked extent .
The following were a series of readings , taken alternately , with the oxygen stream on and off:\#151 ; off . .
270 273 273 275 275 \/ \/ \/ \/ on . .
380 340 345 345 The effect of oxygen is seen to be very marked .
The current was reduced by resistance so that the negative glow only covered a small part of the cathode , and its value was 0*6 milliampere .
Thus the afterglow was feeble , though sufficient for observation .
It is to be observed that the active nitrogen responsible for the afterglow was chiefly produced in the positive column of the discharge , not at the cathode .
The absolute values of the readings quoted do not agree very well with the careful measurements of the cathode fall made by Warburg .
The matter was not pursued far enough to make it desirable to insist much on this difference .
My object was to observe simultaneously the effect of small oxygen admixture on the cathode fall and the glow intensity .
This was abundantly attained .
A few attempts were made to repeat this experiment admitting a trace of ethylene instead of oxygen .
This , as I showed formerly with jar discharges , has the same effect as oxygen in brightening up the afterglow .
But it was found that the introduction of a hydrocarbon made the readings of the cathode fall of potential altogether irregular , so that the original reading could not be recovered when the hydrocarbon admixture was shut off .
This is probably due to charges produced in the cathode surface by chemical action of the hydrocarbon .
Some similar experiments were made on the fall of potential in the positive column , between two platinum wires sealed in , 4 cm .
apart , in a tube 5 mm diameter .
In these experiments it was not necessary to restrict the current and it was increased to 15 milliamperes .
The nitrogen was at 5 mm. pressure in the tube .
The following are some readings alternately with and without an^oxygen admixture of 1/ 820 of the nitrogen .
210 on 207 off , 208 on , 205 off , 205 on .
Mean , 208 on , 206 off An Active Modification of Nitrogen .
52*0 volts per centimetre with oxygen , 51*5 " " without oxygen .
Thus there is no measurable effect of oxygen admission on the fall of potential in the positive column or on the current , but as usual it produced great increase in the afterglow intensity .
In this experiment the active nitrogen was entirely produced in the positive column , since this was the only part of the discharge traversed by the gas stream .
Yet the electrical conditions in the positive column do not seem to be affected by the slight oxygen admixture , which greatly enhances the afterglow^ .
S 6 .
Active Nitrogen at Atmospheric Pressure .
The formation and properties of active nitrogen as described in previous papers of this series are most advantageously examined at low gaseous pressures , say 5 mm. of mercury or less .
Under such conditions the effects are very spectacular , and can be shown with brilliant effect to large audiences .
At higher pressures the phenomena are much less conspicuous , but it is not without interest to trace them at atmospheric pressure .
This can be done without difficulty .
Fig. 8 shouts the arrangement which has been found most suitable for the purpose .
Leyden jar sparks , maintained by means of an induction coil , pass between the iron wire electrodes A , B , which maybe , say , 1 cm .
apart .
These wires are situated axially in a silica tube of , say , 4 mm. diameter , and they are carried on brass fittings adapted to the silica tube with indiarubber connections as shown .
The silica tube has a small lateral hole , halfway between the electrodes .
This hole is about 1*5 mm. diameter , and is drilled with a diamond .
A sheath of copper foil , perforated to correspond with the hole , surrounds the outside of the silica tube .
Its object is to cut off the dazzling light of the spark .
The silica tube is placed in a bottle ( see figure ) .
A supply of nitrogen is connected to the side tube D ; a cylinder of commercial nitrogen will do , if one is selected which is pretty free from oxygen , x The nitrogen stream passes through the region of discharge , and issues from the Fig. 8 .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
hole , displacing the air in the bottle , so that the issue from the hole enters a nitrogen atmosphere .
The jet issuing from the hole shows the characteristic orange colour of the active nitrogen afterglow .
Its length was about 15 mm. under the experimental conditions used .
The interaction of active nitrogen and acetylene , to yield the cyanogen flame which forms so conspicuous a demonstration at low pressures , can readily be shown at atmospheric pressure with the arrangement described .
It is only necessary to deliver some acetylene into the bottom of the outer vessel so that the issuing jet of glowing nitrogen comes in contact with it .
The orange jet at once changes to lilac , and shows the cyanogen spectrum , exactly as at low pressures .
The experiment may , perhaps , be of interest to those who desire to see something of the phenomena , but who have not the use of a suitable motor-driven air pump for working at low pressures .
The luminous jet at high pressures is only about 15 mm. long , as already mentioned .
At low pressures , on the other hand ' , it may be readily made to extend to a distance of many metres , if long tubes are provided .
The question arises , what is the cause of this great difference in the time during which the gas remains luminous .
There seems to be no doubt that it is due to the destructive effect of the dense gas on the active nitrogen contained in it .
If the hole in the side of the quartz tube is made specially small , it is possible to maintain an approximate vacuum in the outer vessel into which it discharges , while still supplying nitrogen at atmospheric pressure to the spark-gap inside the quartz tube .
In this case the jet lengthens out , and the gas remains luminous throughout the connecting tubes leading to the pump .
It is evident , therefore , that the short duration of the afterglow when the jet emerges into the open is not due to any inherent peculiarity of the active nitrogen generated in the spark at atmospheric pressure , but rather to the conditions in which it is placed after formation\#151 ; that is to the high density of the surrounding gas .
Early experiments* demonstrated that certain gases , oxygen for example , produce a marked destructive effect on the glow of active nitrogen , even at low pressures .
It is probable , however , that ordinary nitrogen itself has a similar though smaller effect .
Such an effect may be supposed to depend on the active nitrogen molecules coming into contact with inert nitrogen molecules , and this will happen more often as the density of the latter is increased .
Thus there is no difficulty in understanding the short life of active nitrogen when contained in nitrogen at atmospheric pressure .
The longest duration of active nitrogen , on the other hand ( which may * I , p. 224 ; II , p. 56 .
An Active Modification of Nitrogen .
reach in extreme cases to half-an-hour ) , is observed when the electrodeless discharge , which admits of pressures as low as 1/ 10 mm. , is used .
In this case a minimum of inert nitrogen is present .
Returning to the experiments at atmospheric pressure : the discharge of the active jet into air with its contained oxygen destroys it very rapidly indeed .
Thus little can be seen of the phenomena if the jet discharges into the open .
S 7 .
Scattered Metal from the Cathode in a Stream of Active Nitrogen .
The well-known disintegration of the cathode is , of course , limited to the uncondensed discharge\#151 ; it does not occur with the jar discharge , in which the cathode dark space with its attendant phenomena are not developed .
During the studies on the uncondensed discharge described earlier in this paper , the idea suggested itself of using this cathode disintegration as a method of evaporating the metal into the stream of active nitrogen , to show the development of the metallic spectrum.* Of several heavy metals tried , copper showed the effect best .
The copper cathode should be sheathed in a quartz tube , f leaving 1 cm .
protruding .
This quartz sheath , as shown in fig. 9 , A , is cemented with sealing wax into a lateral tube .
The stream of active nitrogen produced in the narrow tube B Fig. 9 .
sweeps past the copper cathode , carrying the disintegrated or evaporated metal with it .
The nitrogen pressure in the tube is somewhat high , 5 to 10 mm. .
A tongue of green light is seen extending 10 cm .
or more down stream from A along the tube C. This shows the copper line spectrum , excited by active nitrogen , just as in those cases where the stream of active gas is led over a fragment of heated metal .
The latter method , which succeeds * I , p. 224 .
t The tube gets heated , and the effects to be looked for are masked by the sodium light developed , if glass is used .
VOL. XCII.\#151 ; A. .
2 M An Active Modificatioyi of Nitrogen .
very well with mercury , cadmium , zinc , magnesium , and the alkali metals , is scarcely applicable to copper , on account of the high temperature^ needed to evaporate it .
S 8 .
Summary .
( 1 ) The production of active nitrogen in various regions of the steady discharge has been studied .
It is greatest near the cathode , falls off to a minimum in the Faraday dark space , and increases again in the positive column to a value which is constant along that column , but less than that at the cathode .
( 2 ) With a given value of the current , much more active nitrogen is obtained from the positive column in a narrow tube than in a wide one .
The difference between the potential gradients in the narrow and wide tubes is not large enough to plausibly account for the different yield of active nitrogen , which must rather be connected with the current density .
( 3 ) The yield of active nitrogen comes to a limit as the length of positive column traversed by the gas is increased .
This is shown to be due to a destructive action of the discharge , which , beyond a certain concentration , destroys the active nitrogen as fast as it is produced .
( 4 ) A trace of oxygen ( or almost any other admixture ) is known to greatly increase the yield of active nitrogen .
The amount of oxygen required to do this considerably increases the fall of potential at the cathode , but it does not measurably affect the fall of potential in the positive column .
( 5 ) Active nitrogen is produced by the spark at atmospheric pressure .
That the phenomena are so much less striking than at low pressures is due to the destructive action of the surrounding gas on the active nitrogen after it is produced .
( 6 ) The metal scattered from a copper cathode when the discharge passes can be made to emit its line spectrum in a stream of active nitrogen .

