Some Directions and Inquiries with their Answers , Concerning the Mines , Minerals , Baths , &amp;c. of Hungary , Transylvania , Austria , and other Countries neighbouring to those .
THe Directions and Inquiries , as they were , some time since , recommended by the Publisher to the care of the Ingenious and Learned Dr. Edward Brown ( Son to that deservedly famous Physician Dr. Thomas Brown , and Fellow of the Royal Society ) travelling in Germany , Hungary , Turky , &amp; c ; are these .
To inquire in Hungary , Transylvania , Austria , and the other Countries thereabout , what is observable there , as to Minerals , Springs , Baths , Earths , Quarries , Metals ; especially the kinds , qualities , and virtues of Mineral waters ?
Whether there be any medicated Earths ?
And what Coals , Salt-Mines , or Salt-Springs , Allom , Vitriol , Sulphur , and Antimony , those parts afford ?
To inquire particularly , and to procure some of all the several sorts of Antimony , and Antimony-Ore , to be found in Hungary .
To procure some of the best Hungarian Vitriol , the Cinnabaris nativa ; as also of the true Gold and Silver-Earth or Ore , said to be found at Cranach in Hungary .
To inquire after , and send over some of that kind of Vitriol , which by credible persons is affirmed to be found chrystallized in Transylvania .
To get a particular account of the Salt-Pits in Transylvania , which are said to yield two sorts of perfect Salt , the one being a Sal Gemmae , the other , a common Table-Salt .
To observe , how deep these Salt-Mines lie from the surface of the ground ?
How deep they have been dug hitherto ?
What damps are met with in them ?
&amp;c. To inquire after the veins of Gold and Quick-silver at Cremnitz in Hungary ; and after the vein of Silver at Schemnitz in the same Country : And to send some of the best Ores of them all .
Whether in all the Mines of Gold , Silver , Copper , Iron , Lead , in Hungary , and the adjacent Countries , and particularly about Newhausel , be everywhere found Quick silver and Sulphur ?
Whether it be true , that in the Copper-Mines of that place , which is called Herrn-ground , be found no Quick-silver at all ?
Whether it be so , that in some parts of Upper Hungary , the Ores of Copper , Iron , Lead , be sometimes so commixt , that there is often found in the upper part matter of Iron , in the midst , of Copper , and in the lowermost , of Lead ?
And that in other places , Copperous fluors are mixed with Leaden ones ?
Whether the Relation , communicated to the curious Athan .
Kircher ( as may be seen in his Mund .
Subterr .
) viz. that the ductus 's or veins of Metals , do in those parts sometimes run North and South , sometimes cross-wayes , may be relied on ?
To inquire into all the Baths of Baden and Hungary , and the manner of Bathing , used there : And particularly , Whether the water of the Thermae , that pass by Schemnitz , depose a certain Sediment , which in time turns into a yellow stone !
And if so , to send over some of it .
These are the Queries ; to which we shall now subjoyn the Answers of the above-mention 'd curious Travailer , as they were imparted by him at several times , according as he had occasion to inform himself , when he was in those Parts , about such matters .
I have not been unmindful of the Inquiries , you were pleased to honour me with upon the account of the Royal .
Society ; and in Answer to them , I shall first acquaint you with what I found and learned of the Salt-Mines : concerning which I now present you with those two kinds of Transylvanian StoneSalts , which you mentioned ; and also with Salts out of the Mine at Eperies in Upper Hungary ; together with some account of that Mine .
Of the Sal Gemmae I have sent you four pieces , and a stone of Salt , as it was taken out of the Mine , which , if you please , for your further satisfaction , to break with an Hammer , you will find it to split into Tables or Parallelepipedons in your hand .
With these comes along a Specimen of that Mineral Salt , which is commonly used at Table .
This is found in most of the Salt-Mines , as in that of the County of Maromarus , nigh to the Castle of Hust ; and in one at Des , in two at Forda , in two at Calos , in two at Szick , and in one at Dizaknel .
Great quantity of this Salt is brought down the River Tibiscus , and the Rivers running into it : Some of which is afterwards sent down the Danube , and up the Morava to furnish Servia , and the adjacent Provinces ; and a great part of it up the Danube into Hungary ; having myself seen divers Long-boats laden in many places between Belgrade and Presburg , but they come up no higher ; Stone-Salt being prohibited by the Emperor in Austria , who hath a considerable profit upon the boiled Salt brought from Hall-stadt in that Province .
In my Return from the Mine-Towns in Hungary , I met with Count Rothall at Franschin , going then from the Emperor to treat with Abaffi Prince of Transylvania his Commissioners at Eperies : where I engaged some of his Attendants , not unknown to me , to make inquiry into the Salt-Mines of that place , or any other , according to the instructions I left with them ; and afterwards I received an Account to this Effect .
Half an hours going from the City Eperies , there is a SaltMine of great note ; from the first place of descent unto the bottom , it is about One hundred and fourscore fathoms deep : Into this the Miners descend first by Ropes , and at last by Ladders unto the lower parts .
The Mine is for the most part in an Earthy , and not a Rocky ground .
The Veins of Salt are large , and there are pieces to be found of Ten thousand pound weight .
They commonly hew out the Salt into Long square pieces of two foot in length , and one in thickness ; and for use , it is broken and grinded between two grind-stones .
The Mine is cold and damp ; but the Salt being a StoneSalt , is not easily dissolved , or at least in any great quantity , by dampness or moisture : Yet the water of the Mine is impregnated with Salt in such sort , that being drawn out in large Buckets , and afterwards boiled up , it affords a blackish Salt , which they give to their Cattle in the Country .
The Colour of the ordinary Stone-Salt of this Mine is not very white , but somewhat grey ; yet being broken and grinded ed to powder , it becomes as white as if it were refined : And this Salt consists of pointed parts or fossets .
Another sort of Salt there is also , which consists of Squares and Tables ; and a third , to be found of somewhat stirious or long shoots .
Nor is all the Salt of this Mine of one colour , but of divers ; that which is found grossly mixed with the Earth , receives some colour from it .
And even that , which is most pure , and resembles Crystal , doth often receive Tinctures of several colours .
In the middle of a Chrystal-Salt with long shoots , I have seen a delicate blew ; and Count Rothal hath a large piece of a fair yellow .
There are also some pieces very clear and transparent , so hard , that they carve them into divers Figures , as Crosses , Crucifixes , and others .
Of each of these I have obtained a piece , and present the same unto you* ; but cannot omit to advertise you , that , whereas these Salts , though kept without care , remained dry for many months in other Countries , yet they began somewhat to relent soon after I came into England ; and if they be kept in a Stove , or very hot place , they will be apt to lose their Transparency .
I could not hear of any Damps in this Mine .
* These are now in the Repository of the Royal Society ; as are also the several Specimens of Ores , hereafter mentioned .
But to proceed to the Gold-and Silver-Mines , I shall tell you , as to the former , That among the seven Mine-Towns in Hungary ( which are not far from one another , viz. Chremnitz , Schemnitz , Newsol , Koningsberg , Bochantz , Libeten and Tiln ) Chremnitz is the richest in Gold .
They have also , at present , Gold-Mines at Bochantz and Koningsberg ; and they report in that Country , that there hath been formerly a rich Gold-Mine at Glas-hitten , but lost , since that Bethlem Gabor over-ran those parts , when the Undertakers stopped up the Mine , and fled .
They have worked in the Gold-Mine at Chremnitz nine hundred years .
This Mine is divers English miles in length , and about One hundred and sixty fathoms deep .
Many veins of the Ore run to the North , and to the East .
They work also towards One , Two and Three of the Clock , as they speak : for the Miners direct themselves under ground by a Compass , not of 32 points ( such as is used at Sea ) but by one of 24 ; which they divide , as we do the hours of the day , into twice 12 .
Of the Gold-Ore , some is white , some black , red , or yellow : that with black spots in white is esteemed the best , as also the Ore , which lies next to the black veins .
This Ore is not rich enough to suffer any proof in small parcels , like that of other Mines , whereby to know , what proportion of metal is contained in it ; but they pound a very great quantity thereof , and wash it in a little River , which runs nigh the Town .
The whole River being divided , and admitted into divers cuts , runs over the Ore continually , and so washes away the earthy parts from the metallin ; and from a clear River above the Town , by its running through so many works , and over so much pounded Ore , it becomes below the Town a dark yellow stream , of the colour of the earth of those hills .
There have been pieces of pure Gold found in this Mine ; some of which I have seen in the Emperors Treasury , and in the Elector of Saxony 's Repository ; one piece as broad as the palm of my hand , and others less , and upon a white stone many pieces of pure Gold ; but these are very rare .
The common yellow Earth of the Country near Chremnitz , although it be not esteemed Ore , affords some Gold : And in one place I saw a great part of an Hill dug away , which hath been cast into the works , washed and wrought in the same manner , as pounded Ore , with considerable profit .
Some passages in this Mine , cut through the Rock and long difus 'd , have grown up again ; and I observed the sides of some , which had been formerly wide enough to carry their Ore through , to approach each other , so as we passed with difficulty .
This happens in moist places .
The passages unite not from the top to the bottom , but from one side to another .
There is Vitriol in this Mine , white , red , blew and green ; and also Vitriolat waters .
There is a substance found , which sticks to the Goldore , of small pointed parts like needles , called by them Antimony of Gold .
There are Chrystals found here , and some tinctured yellow , The Miners will not allow any Quick-silver or Brimstone to have been found here ; yet in the lately mentioned Antimony of Gold there is evidently Sulphur , as you 'll perceive by burning it .
The Quick-silver-mine , mentioned in the Answer to Kircher 's Inquiries in his Mund .
subterraneus , is an Hungarian mile , or 7 English miles distant from Cremnitz , and is not wrought in at present .
There is a Vitriol-mine in these Hills night the Gold-mine ; the Earth or Ore of it is reddish , and sometimes greenish .
This Earth is infused in water , and after 3 days the water is powered off , and boiled 7 days in a leaden Vessel , till it comes to a thick granulated whitish substance , which is afterwards reduced to a calx in an Oven , and serves in the making of Aqua-fortis , or the separating water , used at Schemnitz .
They have divers ways of taking the Gold out of its Ore ; by burning the Ore , by melting , by adding Silver-Ore and other Minerals , Sand and Lead ; as they find the Ore fluid or fixed .
But , to avoid prolixity , I will set down that way only , which they proceed in without Lead .
They break and pound the Ore , in water , very fine ; they wash it often , and lay it in powder upon cloaths , and by the gentle oblique descending of the water over it , and their continual stirring it , the earthy , clayish , and lighter parts are washed away , while the heavier and mettalline remain in the cloth .
These clothes are afterwards washed clean in several Tubs , and the water , after some settling , powered off from its sediment ; which sediment is again washed , and stirred up in several vessels and troughs , till at length they sprinkle Quicksilver upon it , and knead it well together , for an hour , and then washing it again in a wooden vessel , after the separating of much of it which the Quicksilver touches not ; by striking this vessel against their leg , they bring the Gold and Quicksilver together , in an Amalgama , to one corner of it .
From this Amalgama they strain as much of the Quicksilver as they can through coarse clothes first , and then through fine : they put the mass remaining upon a perforated Plate , which they set over a deep pan placed in the earth ; in in the bottom of which pan they also put quicksilver : This pan they cover , and lute the cover well and then make a charcoal-fire upon it ; they drive down the Quicksilver yet remaining in the Gold to the rest in the bottom of the pan ; then taking out the Gold , they cast it into the fire , that it may still become purer .
Concerning Cranach-Gold ( of which you particularly inquire ) I cannot learn , that there is any such Gold , or place where Gold is dug , in Hungary ; but in Germany , I think , there is : for Agricola mentions such a place as Golde-Cranachum in his second Book de veter .
&amp; novis Metallis p. 400 inter Francos ; and in his fifth Book de Natura Fossilium p 254 mention is made of one place called Golde-crona , and another named Gold Cranacum .
Concerning the Silver-mines , there are divers of them at Schemnitz in Hungary , as the Windschacht , the Trinity , of St. Benedict , of St. John , of the three Kings , and several others of lesser note .
The chiefest and most wrought are those of Windschacht and Trinity .
They have no River here , but much water in the Mines , which is a double inconvenience to them , viz. to want water above , and to be glutted with it under ground , so as they are constrained to send much of their Ore to Hodrytz and other places , where are small Rivers , by which their Bellows and Hammers may be moved , their Ore pounded , washed , and other works requisite performed .
Nor do they want Engins to pump the water out of the Mines , moved by wheels drawn about continually by horses , 12 horses at a time to each wheel .
In Windschacht-mine , deep in the earth , is a large wheel of 12 yards diameter , turned about by the fall of subterraneous waters .
This wheel moves Engines , which pump out the water from the bottom of the Mine up to the cavity , wherein this wheel is placed .
The water , which moves this wheel , falls no lower into the Mine , but passes away through a Cuniculus made on purpose , through which both this &amp; the other water , pumped from the deepest parts of the Mine , do run out together at the foot of an Hill .
Trinity-Mine is 70 fathoms deep ; built and kept open with underwork at a great expense .
Much of this Mine being in an earthy soil , the Ore of it is much esteemed .
Divers veins lye North ; and other rich veins run to the North-East .
When two veins cross one another , they esteem it fortunate .
So that all veins of Ore keep not the same point even in the same Mine ; which would be an help to discover them ; but they have no certain way to know either which way they run , or where they are , till by the industrious persevering in the labour of the Mines they are at last found out .
They use not the Virgula divina , but dig always as the Adventurers desire .
They showed me one place , which they had dug straight on 6 years , when the Ore was but two fathoms distant from the place where they first began : And in another place they dug 12 years outright , and at last found a vein , which in a short time paid their charges The blackish Silver Ore is esteemed the best ; much of it hath a mixture of a shining yellow substance or Marchasite , which if it be not in too great a quantity , is not unwelcome , by reason that it disposes the Ore to fluidity or renders it more easy to be melted ; but if it be in too great a proportion , they are of opinion , that it preys upon the Silver in the Mine , and in the Furnace carries it away while it melteth , by overvolatili volatilizing it ; and therefore they term it a Robber , as a substance which spoils , and takes away the richness of the Ore. There is often found a red substance , which grows to the Ore , called Cinnaber , Cinnaber of Silver , Cinnabaris nativa , Minium nativum , or Berg-cinober ; of which I have sent you some by it self , and some also slicking to the Ore. This substance grinded with oil makes a Vermillion , equal to , if not surpessing , the Cinaber made by Sublimation .
I discovered a Sulphur in it , by casting it upon an hot Iron plate , on which it burned blew .
Whether it also contains Quick silver , I have not tried , because I would not diminish that small quantity , here sent .
The Miners say they meet not with any .
There are also found in these Mines , Chrystals , Amethysts or Amethystine mixtures in the clests of the Rocks , and sometimes nigh or joined to the Ore ; as also Vitriol naturally chrystalliz 'd in the earth in divers of these Mines , and particularly in a Mine in Paradise-hill near Schemnitz .
As there is great variety in the Silver-ore , as to its mixtures with Earth , Stones , Marchasite , Cinaber , Vitriol , &amp;c. so also in its richness , some holding a great proportion of Silver in respect of other .
An 100 pound weight of ore sometimes yields but ~ an ounce or an ounce of Silver ; sometimes 2 ounces , 3 , 4 , 5 , and unto 20 ounces .
What is richer is very rare ; yet some hath been found to hold half silver , and I have seen of it so rich , as to be cut with a knife .
A Specimen of each sort of Ore , which they dig out of the Mines , is carried to an Officer called the Probierer , who is to prove and judge of its richness ; which he doth in this manner .
Of all sorts of Ores he takes the same quantity : the Ores being first dried , burned , and pounded , he gives an equal proportion of Lead to all , melteth and purifieth them , and then by exact scales takes notice of the proportion between the Ore and the Mettal contained in it , and reports it to those employed in the great melting Furnaces .
If the Ore be found to hold 2~ ounces or more of silver in 100 pound weight , they ordinarily melt it without any foregoing preparation , by the help of Iron-stone ( which is not Iron-ore , but a stone found thereaabout , of which the liver-colour 'd is the best , ) Kys ( a sort of Pyrites ) and Slacken ( a scum or cake taken off from the top of the pan , into which the melted Minerals run , and is a substance made out of the former mentioned , by fusion ; ) which are thrown in with it into the melting furnace .
If the Ore be poorer , holding but two ounces in an 100 pound weight , or less , it is first pounded and washed , till it becoms richer , or hath a greater proportion of Metal in respect of the Ore , much of the earthy parts being washed away .
Then it is thrown into the Furnace with the former Materials ; and the Marchasite , which remains still with it , as sinking always to the bottom with the silver in the wash-works , helps to the quicker fusion of the Ore. G2 What Whatsoever is melted in the melting Furnace , is let out through an hole at the bottom thereof into the pan , which is placed in the earth before it , and , thus exposed , it immediately acquires an hard scum , dross , loaf or cake , which being often taken off from the top , the metal remaining in it becoms purer ; to which is added Lead , and after some time the melted metal is taken out .
Then being again melted in the Driving Furnace , the Lead , or what else remains mixed with the Silver is driven off by the blowing two great bellows , and runs over in the form of Litharge : that which first comes over is the White , and that which last , being longer in the fire , is the Red , not that it is Litharge of Gold , both being driven off from the same metal .
As Chremnitz Gold-ore hath Silver in it , so most of the Schemnitz Silver-ore holds some Gold ; which they separate by melting the Silver , then granulating it , and afterwards by dissolving it in Aqua fortis , whereby the Gold is left at the bottom , and is afterwards melted ; the Aqua fortis is distilled from the Silver , and serves again for use .
The Silver then separated from all its former associats , is sent to Chremnitz , where they coin it into pieces of a mixed metal ( which is the common Money of the Country , ) after this manner : They melt it with about the same quantity of Copper , and run it into Bars , which they beat out ; then softning them in the fire , draw them out to an exact thinness between two Steel-Wheels ; then they cut them out into round pieces with an Instrument like a Shomakers Punk , and then boil them with Tartar and Salt , shake them in a Sack with Small coal and Water , dry them in a Kettle perforated , and afterwards they are drawn between two Wheels , in which they receive their Stamp .
So far this generous Travailer of the Hungarian Gold-and Silver-mines : what he hath observed concerning the Copper-mines , and the Baths in those parts , we must referr to the next opportunity .

