]\gt ; of on Thermal Condnctivity .
The Effects of Temperature and Pressure on the Thermal Conductivities of Bodies .
I.\mdash ; The Effect of Temperature on the Thermal Conductivities of some Electrical Insulators .
By iLES H. LEES , D.Sc .
Communicated by TlfUR SCHUSTER , F.R.S. Received November \mdash ; Read llecember15 , 1904 .
[ Abstract .
] The subskance whose thermal conductivity is to be determined has phe form of a cylinder about 8 .
long , 2 .
diameter , and is surrounded by a thin cylinder of brass , which on accoumt of its comarabively high thermal conductivity , makes the outer surfaces of the substance 1sothermal surfaces .
The brass cylinder placed in a Dewar tube .
The heat is supplied by the passage of an electrical current through , a platinoid wire embedded in the substance parallel to the axis of the ( jylinder , and about 4 cm .
distant from it .
The amount of heat is determined by the current through the and the potential diflerence between its ends .
The temperature is measured by the electrical resistance of short spirals of No. 40 platintlm ; wire , down the centre of one of which the heating wire passes .
To -i eliminate errors due to want of symmetry , a second heating wire passes down the centre of the secon spiral , and the heating current may be sent through either or at will .
The difference of temperature of the two is determined by them two arms of a resistance bridge , the other two of I which are equal .
By means of mercul.y cups resistances may be I placed in seliesvith either of the spirals till a balance is obtained .
From the 1esistance necessary to effect the balance and the " " funda1 mental constants\ldquo ; of the platinnm thermometers which the two splrals 1 constitute , the difference of their temperatures is calculated .
The thermal conductivity of the medium would , if the latter were , infinite in extent and the wire infinitely long , ) connected with the 1 difi.erence of the tenlperatures at the two points distant aJld r iromthe heating wire , and the itmount of heat generated per sccond in 1 cm .
of the latter , by the tion In the apparatus used the connection between the quantities is oot so simple , but the theory is worked out completely in the paper , corresponding expression given .
The following fairly representative subslances have been tested each Bffects of )Fressure cm at a numl ) of temperabures between that of liquid air and melting point of the ) : Ice , glycerine , aniline , paraffin wax , naphthalin -naphthol , para-nitrophenol , and diphenylamine .
The resuIts show a marked increase of the conductivities of ice , naphthaline , aniline and nitrophenol , and a slight inclease of those of -naphthol , and diphenylamine at low temperatures .
Glycerine has a 1naximum conductivity about C. , and paraffin wax shows a tendency to behave in the same way .
A few values of the conductivities for a portion of the range temperature are given in the foHowing table : \mdash ; henylaml The temperatures are given in of the hydrogen scale , measured from the absolute zero , the thermal conductivities in c.g.s. units .
It will ) noticed that the thermal conductivities are much greater in the solid than in the liquid state in the case of aniline , but .most aliko in the case of glycerine .

