VI .
The same Appearance described by John Hadley , Esq ; F. R. S. THE Royal Society hath received so many and so full Accounts of the frequent Northern Lights , which of late Years have been seen in Europe , and particularly of that remarkable one of the 8th of October last , that it seems needless at present to give a minute Description of the whole Appearance .
I shall therefore only take notice of a few Particulars , which either have been omitted by others , or by some remarkable Circumstances attending them , seem most likely to be of use to those who employ their Thoughts in attempting to discover the Nature and Causes of these Phenomenon .
The first sight I had of this Appearance , was about half an hour after Seven of the Clock ; at which time it had nothing remarkable to distinguish it from those others which had been observed almost every Evening for some time , except a dusky Redness arising from the Western Extremity of the luminous Arch ; and that at the same time there was seen another like hazy Arch low to the Southward , fainter , but more steady than that to the North .
I judged the highest Point of it to be something more elevated than the Sun at Noon about the Winter Solstice .
In a short time after , the Northern Arch was risen considerably higher from the Horizon , and continued to advance towards the Zenith , till 8 ; when in one part it passed among the uppermost Stars of Cassiopeia , and in another close below the bright Star in the Harp .
The Heavens underneath looked clear , and of a dark Blue , having no resemblance either of Dawn or dusky Cloud , and the Pyramids of Light seemed to spring immediately out of the pure Sky .
The Arch it self was very irregular , being full of Notches , some greater , some less .
The dusky Red on the West was changed to a light Crimson , and was answered by the like Colour on the East The Rays issuing from both Extremities , were thick and bright , appearing as if there were several one behind another .
They were also generally longer than the rest , and pointed considerably to the South of the Zenith .
After 8 , the Northern Arch retired again downwards , till it came among the Stars of the Great Bear ; when the whole Scene was changed on a sudden , and Rays were darted up from all sides , and formed that Crown-like , or Star-like Figure which has been sufficiently described .
The intermediate Area ( left between the innermost Extremities of the Rays coming from different Quarters , which very rarely , if ever , joined ) was of an irregular Figure , commonly inclining to an Oval , whose longest Diameter lay East and West .
Sometimes it appeared as clear Sky , at other times was filled with a thin white Cloud , and that Cloud was often divided into two Parts , by an uneven crooked Line , running likewise East and West .
The Rays which immediately surrounded this void Space , were of no great Length , and very unstable : Yet two or three times , when they continued steady enough to afford an Opportunity of considering them attentively , their outermost Extremities were sensibly carried Southwards , the Center it self remaining , to appearance , fixed .
The Southern Quarter was filled with continual Flashings of Light .
These followed one another very quick , and were propagated upwards from the aforementioned Arch with great Swiftness , each of them leaving in some parts of the Space it passed through , a faint , and very transient Whiteness , which presently vanished , and was quickly renewed , usually in the very same Track , by the next succeeding Flash .
Yet none of those Tracks were in any degree direct and uniform ; but all very irregular and broken .
The Central Figure sometimes disappeared for a while , and then returned again .
Whether it always retained the same Situation with respect to our Horizon , I cannot depend on the Exactness of my Observations enough to determine .
They were as follow .
About half an hour past Eight , the Center , as well as I could judge by my Eye , was very near a Star of the fifth Magnitude , placed by Hevelius at the End of the Lizard 's Tail , whose present Right Ascension is about 331~ , and Decl. 36~ and an half N. At Nine , it was at the Northern Point of an Isosceles Triangle , whose Base was a Line joining the Star in Pegasus Shoulder , called Scheat , and the brightest of those in his Knee ; the Perpendicular from the Center being in proportion to the Base , about as 3 to 2 .
At 9h .
15~ the Triangle made between that and the two foremention 'd Stars was become Right-angled at Scheat , the Distance being not much altered .
At Ten , it was directly between the Zenith and Andromeda 's Head , at a Distance from this Star not sensibly different from what it had kept from the Northermost of the Two forementioned .
According to the first of these Observations , the Central Point must have been very near the Meridian , and about 15~ South of the Zenith of the Place where I was ; which is a few Minutes directly North from London .
The three last agree pretty well with one another , to carry it between 2 and 3 Degrees further Southward , and to give it a perpendicular Distance of 3 or 4 Degrees of a great Circle from the Meridian Eastward .
In the remarkable Appearance of this kind which happened the 6th of March 1715/ 6 , I observed the like Center at near half an hour after 7 o ' clock , to be something nearer the Zenith , than the bright Star in the Northern Head of the Twins , and to be more Easterly by about half the Distance between that and the Star in Pollux 's Head .
By comparing this Observation with the Situation of the Star at that time , the Center appears to have been about 16 or 17 Degrees from the Zenith , and about 2 or 3 distant from the Meridian Circle towards the East .

