]\gt ; Essential Properties and Chemical Character of .
37 November 18 , 1880 .
PRESIDENT in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the eusuing Anniversary lIeeting was given from the Chair .
General Boileau , Mr. Currey , .
De La Rue , Mr. Hudson , and .
Matthey , having been nominated by President , were elected by ballot Auditors of the Treasurel.'S Accounts on the part of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for The following Papers were read : I. " " On the Essential Properties and Chemical Character of yllium ( Glucinunl).\ldquo ; By L. F. NILSON and OTTO .
Communicated by WARREN DE LA RUE , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received June 21 , 1880 .
In this paper we wish to call attention to some experimental facts which may give a clue to the real natnre of beryllium , an element which since the beginning of this century has been the enigma of inorganic chemistry .
The oxide of beryllium was discovered in 1795 by Vauquelin .
It was considered a morloxide , , until 1815 , when Berzelius*ranged it , principally on account of its basic sulphates , .
the sesquioxides .
The weighty reasons for this ement , never since refuted , which Berzelius added later in the tifth edition of his " " Lehrbuch Chemie p. 1225 , are too well known to be recorded here .
In 1842 Awdeeff analysed the double sulphates and fluorides of llium , which showed qnalities not agreeing entirely with the gous compounds of aluminium , iron , chromium , \amp ; c. As the mula of these compounds could be written this was considered by the chemists of that time to support strongly the old theory .
Still the classification of Berzelius prevniled and was by H. Rose , showed the correspondence of the mole* ' ' Schweigg .
Journ. .
Ch. .
Ph , p. 296 .
" " Pogg .
Ann lvi , p. 101 .
" " Pogg .
Ann lxxiv , p. 429 . .
XXX1 .
38 L. F. Nilson and Otto Pettersson .
[ Nov. 18 , cular volumes of with also by Ebelmen , obtained the oxide of beryllium in crystals isomorphous with Subsequently an elaborate work , " " De Glucium et de ses Composees 1855 , by Debray , once more caused a change in the ) .
Debray regarded beryllia as an isolated member of the series occupying a position intermediate between the monoxides and the sesquioxides , and showing marked analogies with both groups , but not intimately connected with either of them by isomorphism .
As the analyses of its compounds in most cases agreed better with the simple formula , this was preferable to Klatzo , 1868 , endeavoured to decide this matter finally by the assumption of a complete isomorphism between the sulphates of Be and Mg , Co , Fe , Ni , and though Marignac , S in , proved that this pretended isomorphism did not exist , and was founded on a grave mistake , the opinion that beryllia was a monoxide was at this time universally accepted by chemists .
Theoretically this opinion was founded on the " " periodic law\ldquo ; of Mendeleeff The classification of beryllinm at the head of the second group among the diatomic elements is a leading point in the theory of Mendeleeif .
If the composition of ] was , and the atomic weight of beryllium , instead of , the place of in the system would be vacant , and the order of the series reversed , the " " atomic \ldquo ; would be overthrown , and , still worse , beryllium would find no place at all in the system , except in the fifth group among the five-atomic elements , to which it certainly does not belong .
The final decisive proof still wanting to confirm the ideas of Mendeleeff 's was furnished , 1877 , by Reynolds , who found the specific heat of metallic beryllinm , which makes the atomic heat , in accordance with the law of long and Petit .
About a vear before the publication of Mr. Reynolds , had succeeded , by means of a new method , in isolating metallic beryllium from its chloride .
We employed a massive crncible of wrought iron , hermetically closed by a screw-plug , wherein equivalent quantities of chloride and metallic sodium were heated to redness .
Metallic beryllium was thus obtained , partly fused into globules , partly forming aggregations of little prismatic crystals , which in brightness * ' ' Ann. .
Ch. .
Pharm lxxx , p. 211 .
" " Ann. de Chimie et de Phys [ 3 ] , xliv , p. 5 .
" " Ueber die Constitution der Beryllerde Dorpat , 1868 .
" " Journ. .
Prakt .
Ch , p. 227 .
S " " Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys , xxx , p. 45 .
" " Ann. .
Ch. .
Pharm. , Suppl vui , p. .
" " Phil. Mag [ 5 ] , iu , p. 38 .
the details of the experiment see " " Darstellung und Valenz des Berylliums " " Pogg .
Ann [ 2 ] , , p. 554 ( 1878 ) .
1880 .
] On the Essential Properties , , of Beryllium .
and colour resembled needles of polished steel .
The metal was , as might be expected , not absolutely pure .
The analysis was somewhat difficuIt , the mean result of a number of accordant determinations being:\mdash ; Be ( metallic ) . . . . . . . . . . . .
per cent. 9.99 We next determined its specific heat by the method of Bnnsen ( icecalorimeter ) .
We here met with quite unexpected difficuIties ; but , aving given up the original arrangement of the experiment described by Bunsen* as impracticable , we , by means of an arrangement similar to that recommended by Schuller and Wartha , obtained the following resuIts : Specific heat of and Atomic heat of These results , not in accordance either with those recently obtained by Mr. Reynolds or the periodic law of Mendeleeff , were not accepted without hesitation by chemists .
Notwithstanding that , the editor of the nsw edition of Gmelin 's " " Handbuch .
Chemie Proessor Kraut , altered the formulae of beryllia and its compounds in the part of the great encyclopaedia of chemistry then .
through the press , several other chemists publicly or privately commented on our work , and us to pursue our inquiries further .
Among the objections thus made we deem the following most worthy of discussion .
Mr. Lothar Meyer S hints that the equivalent of beryllium may be wrong , and gests a revision of that number .
If it should be found lower than , instead of higher , beryllium may still be considered a element , without the periodic law .
In thal case it would only be necessary to interpose a new group of metals between the trivalent and quadrivalent elements .
We had no reason to doubt the accuracy of the old number , which we had found and verified by many analyses , but we redeemed our promise to Lothar Meyer , and undertook the following determinations of the atomic weight of beryllium .
In order to determine this value with the utmost accuracy , we thought it safest to choose the simplest possible method , , the * ' ' Pogg .
Ann cxli , p. 1 .
" " Pogg .
Ann [ 2 ] , , p. 359 .
\mdash ; Allowance is made for the impurities of the metal .
The specific of was found between C. S " " Ber . .
Deutsch .
Chem. Gesellsch , p. 676 .
Ibid. , p. 906 .
40 L. F. Nilson and Otto Pettersson .
analysis of its sulphate .
Originally we also thought of analysing the chloride by titration with silver nitrate , but having found that sublimed beryllinm chloride could not be obtained entirely pure , on account of its corrosive action on glass , we gave up the idea .
Sulphate of ] is undoubtedly a neutral salt , and is easily obtained in beautiful crystals , which do not change in the air ; but at C. it loses half of its water , at 25 it becomes anhydrous , and after heating to light redness pure beryllia remains .
Still there is a difficulty in the analysis ; for anhydrous sulphate and pure beryllia , as obtained by calcination , are both very hygroscopic substances .
We therefore chose the hydrated sulphate , which could be weighed with the greatest accuracy , as the most fitting substance to start with ; this salt allowing pulverisation and pressure*without losing a trace of its constituent water .
The sulphate was prepared by heating to dryness an aqueous solution of sublimed chloride with an excess of pure sulphuric acid .
By repeated crystallisation the sulphate could easily be purified from a slight trace of calcium sulphate , originating from the action of the gaseous chloride on the glass tubes .
The analyses I , II , refer to beryllium sulphate obtained in this manner ; for III , , the chloride was precipitated with ammonia and the hydrate treated with sulphuric acid .
The sulphate was repeatedly crystallised .
The difficulty in the analysis is the weighing of the calcined .
For this purpose the crucible , still red hot , was placed in an exsiccator filled with anhydrous phosphoric acid , and after cooling placed immediabely on the scale pan of a Bunge 's balance , the equilibrium being beforehand approximately established .
In this manner the whole operation required only a few seconds .
By spectroscopical test Professor Thalen has found the beryllia used for these determinations to be absolutely pure .
The hydrated beryllium sulphate has given in the determinations , thus executed , the following values:\mdash ; * It was pressed between sheets of fine , porous , bibulous paper , the surface of which had been previously smoothed by heavy pressure .
1880 .
] On the Essential operties , , of llinm .
41 The equivalent of beryllium has hitherto been determined by\mdash ; Berzelius . . . . . . . . . . .
( analysis of the sulphate ) .
Awdeeff . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( analysis of the chloride ) .
Weeren . . . . . . . . .
( analysis of the sulphate ) .
Klatzo . . . . . . . . . . . .
\ldquo ; Debray . . . . . . . . . . . .
( analysis of the oxalate ) .
Nilson and Pettersson .
( of tlJe suIphate ) .
All numbers are higher than 4 consequently the atomic weight of beryllium , if trivalent , must be , consequently higher than that of carbon .
The before-mentioned supposition is consequently proved to be unfounded .
Mr. Lolhar Meyer further observes that the atomic heat of the oxygen in beryllia , if a sesquioxide , would be less than in any other oxide known .
In the next paper we give the whole series of our determinations of the molecular heats of the rare earths and their sulphates .
this survey , which shows that beryllia , with regard to heat and volume , occupies its place at the head of the sesquioxides , we here only extract a few determinations .
If signifies the specific heat , \mdash ; Atom .
heat of oxygeu .
In *Our determitlations refer to pure oxides obtained by They are also strictly col.responding and comparable .
Other deterlninations native alumina ( sapphire ) , made by different methods ( Regnault , Neumann ) , gave a higher number .
Determinations bymeans of the ice-calorimeter nlways give smaller results , the staudard asure for the heat developed is grenter mean of the qpecific heat of water between The atomic heat of scandium is supposed to be , according to the law of Dulong and Petit .
L. F. Nilson and Otto Pettersson .
[ Nov. 18 , Atom .
heat of oxygen .
In According to the determinations made by us under identical conditions , and therefore strictly comparable , atomic heat of oxygen in beryllia is the same as that in alumina ; this , however , can by no means be considered as exceptional .
Alumina and beryllia are the leading members of a group of sesquioxides , wherein atomic heat and ( as will be seen from the following paper ) the atomic volume of oxygen increases with increasing values of the atomic weights of the metals .
We will now refer to another objection raised to ollr former researches .
Mr. Brauner*admits the specific heat of beryllium to be between , but supposes that it may rapidly increase with the temperature in the same way as does the specific heat of and Bo .
If this were the case , he thinks beryllia could be , the atomic heat of beryllium between , and normal first at a much higher temperature .
In our detailed paper , we have tried to meet such an objection , by pointing out that no element is as yet known , the atomic heat of which does not agree with the law of Dulong and Petit .
However , in order to remove any doubt in this respect , we have determined the specific heat of beryllium at different temperatures lying between C. We sifted the metal used in our former determinations through a gauze of platinum , the holes of which were .
millim. For the following experiments we used only that part which did not pass through the gauze , on the supposition that this , consisting of globules and larger crystals , was the purer metal .
The analysis confirmed this opinion , for the composition was found to be\mdash ; Beryllium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Beryllia Iron 0.70 The .
table gives only the results , not the details of our * ' Ber . .
Deutsch .
Chem. Gesellsch , ] 1880 .
] On the Essential Properties , , of Beryllium .
4.3 determinations ; the values are referred to pure , making allowance for the impurities of beryllia and iron:\mdash ; Thus the specific and atomic heat of beryllium increase with the temperature , but a comparison with the same numbers for iron between C. shows that such an increase of these values is not unusual .
sson .
Between C. , the atomic heat of beryllium is equal to that of aluminium , and gallium , at C. it is normal and at C. it has attained the same value as iron at the same temperature .
Beryllium can thus certainly not be compal'ed with the diamond in this respect , the specific heat of which , according to the researches of Weber , being many times higher at C. than at C. Every doubt as to the real atomic weight of beryllium must be *We have also been obliged to determine the increase of the specific heat of b6ryllia and platinum by higher temperatures in the same way as that of beryUium itself , the for the experiments bemg enclosed in little capsules of platinum foil , hermetically soldered with chemically pure gold .
tubcs cannot be employed at higher temperatures than 10 for two reasons : 1st , the glass would crack cooled to ; and 2nd , its specific heat increases very lapidly .
Ber . .
Deutsch .
Chem. GeseUsch 44 L. F. Nilson and Otto Pettersson .
[ Nov. 18 , removed by the results above mentione .
Fixed at , according bo our determlnations , the value of its atomic heat becomes perfectly harmonions with the law of Dulong and Petit .
We will , in conclusion , say a few words upon a paper wherein the resuIts of onr former researches have been criticised .
In the " " Proceedings of the Royal Society 1879 , Mr. Carnelley applies a new method of calculating the fusion points of halogen compounds , and applying it to tbose of ] lium , argues in the following manner:\mdash ; Beryllium must be either a dyad or a triad , and must belong either to the second or to the third gronp of Mendeleeif 's series ; if a dyad or , its chloride , , can be calculated to fuse , which is confirmed by experiment ; if a triad or the chloride , or , ought to fuse about 500 degrees lower , i.e. , C. , which it obviously does not ; ergo , beryllium a dyad , and We presume that Mr. Carnelley 's knowledge of the physical properties of the triads is , like our own , very limited .
With the of aluminium , we really know little or notlJing of the melting or boiling points of chlorides , bromides , and iodides belonglng to this group , and we analogies taken only from one member , aluminium , to be too narrow a base for a calculation which is meant to apply to the whole group .
here may be chlorides , bromides , and iodides which do not behave like , in regard to boiling and fusion points .
We will , in the following paper , give reasons for our opinion that beryllium and aluminium are each leading members of two dffierent groups of trivnlent metals .
The nearest relatives of beryllium among these are neither calcium and magnesium , with which it has , in fact , little or nothing in common , nor aluminium , with which ib has very much more in common , but rather the rare elements , scandium , yttrium , erbium , and ytterbium .
We believe that Mr. Carnelley ought to try his calculation on the halogen compounds of the rare elements before asserting " " that Nilson 's and Pettersson 's determination of the specific heat of beryllium must be incorrect If the properties of the halogen compounds of these elements should be found to agree with the calcnlation , then we confess that the matter becomes somewhat uncertain , for then one will have to choose between the law of Dulong and Petit and that of Carnelley .
* Our above-mentioned experimental researches , confirmed still more by the experiments , which will be quoted in a second paper , lead us to the concIusion that the real atomic weight of beryllium But with this value the periodic Jaw cannot admit this element among the metals nearest related , and this fact obviously militates against its * ' Ber . .
Deutsch .
Chem. Gesellsch , 303 .
1880 .
] On the Essential ) erties , , of Beryllium .
45 general applicability .
Before concluding this memoir , we williust point out that this is not an isolated case of its kind .
For the element which should take place between and , the periodic law requires an atomic weight ; with regard to its general properties tellurium is quite admissible in this place , but its atomlc weight is too high .
Although this number was the result of the determinations of Berzelius and .
Hauer , this want of accordance with the periodic law induced Willis*to a new determination , but he only confirmed the former results .
Thus neither tellurlum nor beryllium can be fitted into Mendeleeff 's system .
And further , after discovery of the boroxychloride , , boron may be considerod as five-slomic , but it certainly cannot be placed of that valence ; and when once the chemistry of the rare earth-metals shall be made clear , where can be placed all these elements , the number of which has already become very and doubtless will be } angmented Already erbium and ytterbium , with the now fixed atomic weights of and 173 , S for the pure metals ( the earths and ) , can scarcely be ranged in Mendeleeff 's system in places indicated by their relation to the other earth-metals or by their " " atomic \ldquo ; In consequence of what has been indicated here , the periodic law in its present condition cannot be said to be quite an adequate expression for our knowledge of the elements ; this theory , however , having given the most striking proofs the th in many respects has been found ( as for example : the new formulae for the rare eal'ths instead of , and the discovery of gallium and scandium , the ence of which the law has foreseen in the elements ekaaluminium and -boron ) , we may expect that the periodic law may be so modified and developed that it can embrace and explain every fact , stated by experiment .

