]\gt ; On the .
of Le .
H. , F.R.S. ( Received October 17 , 1917 .
) to series 1 have able to demonstrate , among others , two fundamental 1 .
If th to I serics ( .
series ) ; these ' Fourier ser.icsr , n th intervals to II .
If th is fulfilled , ) of the ' oincide with thosc of ourier series thoso sumrnation ordinary On the Series of orcas to ) These theorems have an immediate application to endre series , and the mode of application is more general than might be at first supposed .
is , in fact , quite unnecessary to postulate in our the Coetficien of the Legendre scries should be expressible in the Fourier form .
In words , if we denote the Legendre series ) , ( 1 ) then it not neces , sarv 1 the retl ) , hal the " " .
' ' relation should hold .
When ( 2 ) does hold , it is known that the series ( 1 ) , integritted ler]nby-ternl , to an integral hout its of periodicity .
also is true , but this i.s not the when all we is that the integrated series of ( 1 ) should .
to -int Tt seems worth while to particularly call the attoution the Society to the fact , firstly , that the class of Legendre series , so obtained , } regards the internal } ) oints of all such intervals , all he properties of the smaller class for which ( 2 ) holds : this follows imnlediatel our theory .
As already pointed out , however , even if ) olds , the series is , so to spca naturally restricted owino to the failure of ( cob ) to tend to Tbis fact has certainly been responsible for the character ) } results ) tained with respect to these .
For their satisfacto discussion , previous consideration of } trict e ier series is essential .
In a communication Society , actual examples restricted Fourier series of the ordinary type ( .
series ) which in the ordinary , tl1us justifying from the standpoint their duction .
It will be gtLthered from what ) ePtt haid , , that their importance in theory is even greater thnn that in practice .
We are , indeed , able to completely dispose the of sel.iek Legendre coefficients , in virtue } the , properties ) } the series referred to .
fact , by means of the asyulptotic of we ablc1 ress a Legendre series , when multiplied by function , as the .
294 Prof W. H. Young .
periodicity .
series , or lvIich is the same , class of restricted Fourier series .
except those lnvolved in the asymptotic expansion above referred to .
theorems .
considered , renl , points they are for a Legendre series , even when it satisfies condition ( 2 ) , the character of the discussion at once anges .
I may , vevcr , remnrk .
passant , for the information of Fellows of the Society , thal in this case also problem be reduced to one the ourier series of auxiliary function , so that the results of , theory of these latter series can be utilised .
Series of It is interesting to remark , in view of the practical applications , that thib theory has an .
important bearing on the question of the term-by-term integration of Legendre series when multiplied by another function provided we remain in the interior of the interval of periodicity , or of the interval of restriction , of the series .
The theorelns which in such cases hold for Fourier series hold for Legendre series .
With regard to this latter class of the rems , it is evident that the restriction which cludes the end-points of the interval is essential to the fact that the theorems which hold for the convergence at the extremities are not the same as at an internal point , even in the case when ( 2 ) is satisfied .
eaki enerally , we may say that , with certain exceptions of a notable character , the theorems relating to the end-points of the interval are obtainable frour those relating to the internal points of the , by replacing ordinary convergence by Cesaro convergence , or by in the index of the ence .
This is true accordingly in general for inteerrationb theorems involving the whole closed interval , as compared those involving only a portion of the interval .
this complication is unnecessary , in that one of these theorems is declucible Theorem of Parsival for a series of normal functions .
In view of the great importance of hese iration teorems in practice , I propose to makc a further communication with regard to them on a subsequent occasio1l .
It should be scarcely necessary to add that the considerations here exposed aPply , , to other series of normal functions , provide these normal functions are expressible , when multiplied by suitable functions , in a similar manner to the coefficients of Legendre .

