]\gt ; 1873 .
] On the Algebraical Analogues of Logical Relations .
497 II .
' On the Algebraical Analogues of Logical Relations By ALEXANDER J. ]LLIS , , F.R.S. , F.S.A. , F.C.P. F.C.P. Received March 19 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
The object of this paper is to examine the ' ' mathematical theory of logic thus laid down by Dr. George Boole in his ' Laws of Thought , ' p. 37:\mdash ; ' ' Let us conceive of an Algebra in which the symboIs \amp ; c. admit indifferently of the values and 1 , and of these values lone .
The laws , the axioms , and the prooesses of such algebra will be identical in their whole extent with the laws , the axioms , the processes of an Algebra of Logic .
Difference of interpletation will alone divide them For this purpose , first the laws of such nlgebra have been investigated independently of ; and secondly the of and secondary logical propositions laid down by Dr. Boole have beeu eloped in an form , compal.ed with the former .
The main results presumed to be established 1 .
That there is a fundamental differenoe between such an algebra and logic , inasmuch the ] gebra admits of only phases , and logic adnlits of three phases , mely , not only and all , corresponding to and 1 , but nlso some , which , it include in its meaning all , does not include none\ldquo ; ( ibid. p. 124 ) , and hencc has no analogue such au algebra ; that is , an ] of and 1 can correspond only to a logio of all .
2 .
That , llotwithsta]lding this difference , there certain relations of equations whirh allow the algebra of to be used as an algorithm for the purpose of at logical forms , which , however , have then to be interpreted on a basis has not even analogy to the lgebraical .
3 .
the introduction of this algorithm introduces theoretical difficulties , adds to the amount of vork , and is elltirely u even for the purposes of the theory of probabihties founded upon it by Dr. Boole .
In the pnper the general case is examined , iUld a solution is proposed for the diffioulties arising from the iJltel.pretation of the symbols S hich Boole says " " must be blished e.xperimentally\ldquo ; ( ibid. p. 92 ) .
The simple case will s the natnre of the gation ; but , for , even this is not fully In , let and have either one of the or 1 , and no other .
And let be connected with them by the equations and . . . . . .
( a ) Then , and . . . . . .
( b ) and by simple ltiplication . . .
( ) . . . . . . .
498 On the Algebraical Analogues of Logical Relations .
[ Nov. 20 ; In ( d ) one term on the right , and each one of the rest must .
This has no logical analogue .
The ambiguity is diminished by taking some relation between and , as , which by ( c ) gives , and hence , by ( d ) , , . . . . .
( ) showin that one of three ( instead of four ) terms , and eacb of the other two .
Ihis has also no logical analogue .
But in we find that occurs only in the term , and only in the term whereas and both occur in two terms .
Tbis is the only relation useful in logic .
But further , owin to the necessityfor terms vanishing except one , there can be only one term in which occurs , in which case neither nor can occur , and there may be no such term .
This again has no logical analogue .
In logic ( only a primary proposition being considered for brevity ) let be the things themselves in the " " universe of our discourse\ldquo ; ( ibid. p. 44 ) , X those among them having the name and attribute , and similarly for .
Also let X ' , be those things among them which are not X and .
Let mean those things X which are also things ] those things which are also things X. Let mean that the group of things is the same as the group of things Q. Then , disregarding the order in which attributes occur , and the number of times that they recur , , and .
Let represent the number of the things , then , . . . .
, . . . . . .
which are of the same form as ( .
But in , although one term on the right , in which case each of the rest most generally term on the right of , and any number of the terms may be greater than .
This htlS no analogue in the algebra in question .
If there is a limiting equation as , or " " all X is giving from , or " " there is no X which is not then reduces to , . . . .
and all the X which exist ( there may be none ) are , and all the which exist ( there may be none ) are X ' .
This has the algebraical analogue already mentioned .
But there may be both X and , in which case neither nor either , and this has no algebraical analogue .
Again , whether either or neither of and may be greater than ; and this has no algebraical analogue\mdash ; although , if both and , then , which has an algebraical analogue .
The difference between the laws of such an algebra and of logical calculation , therefore , appears to be one of principle and not of interpretation only .

