300 Prof. R. Boyce and Mr. A. E. Evans .
Table A. ( 2 .
) Ratio of weight specific resistance ( ! .
) after stretching to that before Percentage stretching .
stretching .
0-04 1*000000 0-04 1*000037 1*82 1*000711 4*7 1*002468 9*06 1*003776 16*63 1*007128 21*98 Table B. 1*010363 ( ! .
) Weight applied in lbs. avoirdupois .
14 ( 2 .
) Ratio of weight specific resistance with weight on to that before applying weight .
1*00000 ( 3 .
) \gt ; * Ratio of weight specific resistance with weight to that before applying \#166 ; weight .
1*00000 28 1*00487 1*00000 56 1*00131 1*00000 70 1*00185 1*00005 84 1*00237 1*00010 98 1*00283 1*00090 " The Action of Gravity upon Bacterium " By Rcjbert Boyce , M.B. , M.R.C.S. , Assistant Professor of Pathology , University College , London , and A. Ernest Evans , M.B. , C.M. , Glasgow .
Communicated by Professor Victor Horsley , F.R.S. Received February 7 , \#151 ; Read February 23 , 1893.* ( From the Pathological Laboratory of University College , London .
) [ Plates 1 AND 2 .
] In May , 1892 , Mr. Walter Spencer handed over to ns the body of a cat in which he had discovered a double otitis media .
Some of the pus was immediately inoculated upon gelatine , and two days later it was seen that the gelatine along the streak had liquefied , whilst the rest of the surface of the non-liquefied gelatine was covered by a * Of the numerous photographs illustrating this paper , only five of the more typical ones are reproduced , namely , figs. 10 , 12 , 14 , 23 , 28 .
It has been thought better , however , to preserve the original numeration in the text , as the original photographs can be consulted if necessary .
The Action of Gravity upon Bacterium Zopfii .
301 l'egular growth of delicate white filaments .
Re-inoculation proved the presence of more than one micro-organism , hut we soon succeeded in isolating one which did not liquefy the gelatine , and which presented the exceedingly characteristic feather-like appearance well known to belong to Bacterium Zopfii .
We were especially struck by the beautiful regular upward growth of the filaments upon the gelatine surface , for whether we placed the tubes with their mouth pointing upwards or downwards there appeared the same definite growth , provided the tubes were kept in a nearly vertical position .
We accordingly immediately commenced an investigation , which we hoped might throw some light upon the meaning of this very definite symmetrical growth .
With this end in view we first investigated the action of light , but whether we grew the bacterium in the light or in the dark , the symmetry remained the same .
We now began to observe , however , that tubes which , after inoculation , were kept in a horizontal position exhibited an irregular growth .
It therefore occurred to us to test the action of , and we found in effect that revolving inoculated test-tubes slowly upon the clinostat* produced irregular growths , whilst centrifugal force induced , like gravity , a regular growth .
Bacterium Zopfii was therefore negatively geotropic .
These phenomena , viewed in the light of the more recent experiments upon the chemotactic and physiotactic properties of protoplasm\#151 ; properties which appear already to throw very considerable light upon certain pathological problems\#151 ; have led us to venture to record in detail our observations .
Bacterium Zopfii was accidentally discovered by Kurthf in the alimentary tract of the hen in 1883 , and his description of the microorganism , furnished from Zopf 's laboratory , remains the standard one .
In 1885 Professor CrookshankJ obtained from the air in Johne 's laboratory an organism which he named on account of its characteristically figured growth upon gelatine and agar ; it proved to be identical with Kurth 's bacillus .
Lastly , as previously mentioned , we obtained our growth from the middle ear of the cat .
These observations make it very probable that Bacterium Zopfii has a wide distribution , but whether it is pathogenic or not is still uncertain .
We will , however , return to this point later on .
Bacterium Zopfii is pleomorphic ; it is a slender organism of about the same diameter as Bacillus anthrac , and its segments are of very variable length .
It occurs in the dissociated motile state , the elements being actively movable coccal , bacteroid , bacillary , and * We desire to express our thanks to Professor Oliver for not only the use of this and other instruments , hut also for his friendly criticism and advice during the research .
f ' Bot. Zeitung , ' 1883 .
\#163 ; ' Lancet , ' 1885 .
302 Prof. R. Boyce and Mr. A. E. Evans .
twisted forms ; the degree of spirillation in the latter motile forms , however , appears only very slight , and we have not , as yet , encountered the pronounced spirilla seen in It occurs in nonmotile filaments of great length , which may be unsegmented or segmented .
A very striking feature of these filaments is their proneness to twist , to weave themselves into striking patterns , and to form aggregating zoogleaform masses , of equally curious shapes .
The segments of the filaments may occur in the form of cocci , bacteria , bacilli , vibrios , spirilla , and spirochaetae and in the various double forms of these .
Kurth grew the organism in broth and on gelatine , and obtained in the former the motile and long filamentous forms , whilst the twisted varieties appeared wanting : this we likewise have noted .
In gelatine he found that it caused an imperceptible amount of liquefaction and grew out in a radiate manner , and formed characteristic spirals .
Crookshank grew it upon agar , and obtained a feather-like growth which he figures ; this , however , we have always failed to obtain upon that medium .
Kurth drew attention to the sensitiveness of the organism to changes in temperature , to the hindering action of the air , and to the great necessity for plenty of oxygen .
The Growth of Bacterium Zopfii upon Gelatine .
For our experiments we have always employed the 10 per cent , gelatine possessing a neutral or faintly alkaline reaction , but we have found no appreciable difference whether the organism was grown on gelatine with faintly alkaline or acidic reactions .
We use the ordinary culture-tubes , Petri boxes , and a method of plate glass culture which we have found exceptionally useful .
This method consists in placing a small piece of moist cotton wool in the bottom of a test-tube large \#166 ; enough to hold the ordinary 1x3 inch micro-slide ; the test-tube is plugged , and the whole sterilised in the steam steriliser at 120 ' for 20 minutes .
When cooled , a thin uniform layer of sterilised gelatine is very readily spread over the surface of the slide in the test-tube , which remains horizontal , by means of the balloon pipette of Pasteur : there is no fear of contamination .
The test-tube is plugged and .capped to prevent drying , and the slide is then always ready for inoculation .
^Vhen a streak culture has been made upon the gelatine surface , and it is desired to examine the growth , the slide is removed and placed in slightly diluted spirit for a few hours , to fix the growth and extract the salts .
The slide is then carefully dried , stained for a few seconds in gentian violet , washed with Gram 's iodine , and nearly decolorised in spirit , again dried , mounted in Canada balsam , and covered with a sufficiently long cover-slip .
By this method there is the least possible disturbance of the growth , and all our microThe Action of Gravity upon Bacterium Zopfii .
303 photographs have been taken from plates so prepared .
The organism can always , however , be readily examined upon these gelatine slides without fixing or staining .
The method of cover-slip impressions we have found not applicable in our case , as the growth is firmly embedded in the gelatine ; it is useful , however , in the case of agar .
For reasons which will be given later , it is necessary to observe under the microscope the ordinary test-tube growths in situ in the gelatine .
For this purpose we rapidly warm the test-tube to just produce liquefaction of the surface of the gelatine in contact with the glass , and then slide it out upon a glass plate ; a cover-slip is placed over the surface of the growth , and it can then be examined .
Another method which we have employed , and one again which does not lead to any disturbance of the growth , is the well known method of drop cultures , but employing gelatine instead of a fluid medium .
Fig. 1 is a photograph of a 36 hours ' growth upon gelatine , the result of a streak inoculation ( see also fig. 12 ) .
The tube -was kept vertical .
It is the characteristic growth , lines passing outwards and upwards at an angle of about 45 ' : the appearance is typically pinnate .
In connexion with these vertical streak cultures we have noticed this very curious phenomenon , that no matter how crooked our original streak may be , yet the growth seems to form a new perfectly median axis for itself , from which the rami start ; further , if instead of a vertical streak we make three or four streaks upon the surface of the gelatine at right angles to the long axis of the test-tube , the growth still tends to form a median line .
These facts , coupled with our microscopic observations , pointed out to us that we might possibly be dealing with a branching phase similar to that met with in thrix dichotoma ; and , indeed , if we refer to Zopf's* drawings of thrix we do recognize a pinnate arrangement of the so-called false branches of the filamentous organism .
Billetf has termed this branched state the " filamentous , " meaning thereby the " etat d'ac-croissement proprement dit de la plantehe has described it in Gladothrix , Bacterium parasiticum , B. laminarice , B. ureas , B. Balbiani , and B. osteophilum .
In Bacterium Zopfii we shall regard the branching growths as corresponding to the " filamentous phase .
" We soon found that we did not always obtain the characteristic growth , even in the test-tube ; not only had the degree of sloping , as mentioned in the commencement , a considerable effect upon its regularity , but the temperature also exercises a marked effect .
We obtained the best growths in a temperature of about 21 ' C. kept constant .
In this way a perfect growth might be obtained in 24 hours , whilst if that portion of the test-tube which corresponded * Schenk 's ' Handbuch der Botanik .
' t * Contrib. k l'fitude de la Morphologie et du Developpement des Bacteriacees.* Paris , 1890 .
Prof. B. Boyce and Mr. A. E. Evans .
to the back of the gelatine was painted black , growth was still faster and might cover the surface in 12 hours .
On the other hand we found accidentally that a reflecting surface retarded the growth .
These latter phenomena we attributed to differences of radiation .
When next we directed our attention to the gelatine cultures on glass plates and in Petri boxes , we encountered a still greater number of irregularities .
Upon the glass slides covered with a thin layer of gelatine we never obtained a good negatively geotropic growth ; the usual condition was the irregularly branched appearance seen in figs. 15 and 16 under a low power .
For the reasons of this we are still at a loss , unless it be the increased resistance of the gelatine .
In the Petri boxes with a thickness of gelatine varying from \ to 1 inch , or even more , we obtained some instructive results .
We never succeeded in getting symmetrical pinnate growths on the surface comparable to those in test-tubes ; but that we obtained evidence of geotropism is manifest from the photographs , figs. 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 .
In figs. 2 and 4 vertical streaks had been made ; in fig. 3 , a circular streak ; and in fig. 5 , a cross .
The time occupied in the formation of these growths was relatively very much longer than in the case of test-tubes ; moreover the filaments upon the surface rarely possessed the delicate character of that obtained in test-tube cultures ; they had , in fact , as we shall subsequently see , the character of zoogleaform threads .
In fig. 6 a horizontal sti'eak has been made , and although the glass dish was kept vertical , an irregular growth has extended for an equal distance both above and below the horizontal line ; Bacterium .
Zopfii may , in fact , readily extend downwards upon a surface , but it always does so in irregular masses .
These results disappointed us at first , until on closer examination we found that in every case parallel threads passed into the gelatine almost invariably at the common angle of 45 ' .
These geotropic threads had formed just as quickly as those found on the surface of the gelatine in the case of test-tube cultures ; indeed , so rapid is their growth into the gelatine that they may extend a distance of f to 1 inch in 12 hours .
The symmetrical ingrowing into the gelatine we had also observed in the case of test-tube cultures where the growth upon the surface had been retarded by lowness of temperature , whilst painting the test-tube black in the manner previously referred to appeared to still fnrther increase the inward growth .
Fig. 7 is a view of the back of an early growth to show the regular ingrowing tendency ; but photographs of the more perfect cases are impossible owing to the extreme delicacy of the filaments ; fig. 5 is a later stage of 7 .
In fig. 6 the ingrowing is partially seen , and , as fast as the growth extended upon the surface , fresh rami projected symmetrically into the gelatine .
We noticed in some cases that the filaments , after having penetrated the gelatine The Action of Gravity upon Bacterium Zopfii .
305 and come in contact with , the glass surface , might branch and be deflected back parallel to the ingrowing rami .
Growth upon Agar.\#151 ; As stated above , we have never obtained a symmetrical growth in or upon this medium with or without glycerine .
The growth is that figured in photograph 10 .
It takes place slowly , and the margins are irregular , being formed of scattered clumps of the bacterium .
Growth upon Potato.\#151 ; Fig. 9 represents a potato culture ; the faintly yellowish-white growth is observed to have no definite geotropic arrangement .
The potato , it will be observed , appears black ; this has been produced by means of iodine , a method which we have employed with success in demonstrating delicate growths upon potato surfaces .
Growth in Broth.\#151 ; In broth abundant flocculi are formed .
Growth in Animals.\#151 ; We have recorded how this micro-organism was first discovered by Kurth in the alimentary tract of the hen ; whilst in our own case it was present in very great abundance in the pus of both the middle ears of the cat .
It is just possible that in the latter ( present ) case the microbe gained access to the ear by the Eustachian tube , and therefore that the bacterium was originally in the mouth .
It is conceivable , therefore , that it may , in common with the numerous other Cladothrixforms , be of more frequent occurrence in the mouth than is suspected .
We have , however , made no observation upon this point .
We inoculated two rabbits subcutaneously without result , and in another case the third of a test-tube full of a broth culture was injected into the peritoneum with like lack of success .
These few experiments , however , prove little .
The Action of Oxygen and Carbonic Acid Gas upon Bacterium Zopfii.\#151 ; We have already brought forward sufficient facts to show how sensitive this micro-organism is to changes of temperature .
Fig. 11 represents a three days old growth in a test-tube kept in an atmosphere of carbonic acid gas ; there is simply thickening of the original streak .
Control test-tubes which were placed in oxygen at the same time exhibited well marked symmetrical growths from 12 to 24 hours .
Further , if the tube in which the growth had been inhibited by the C02 were transferred to oxygen , a symmetrical growth occurred , as in fig. 12 .
The Action of the Spectrum upon the Growth of Bacterium Zopfii.*\#151 ; By means of a Zeiss sub-stage spectroscope a large spectrum was projected through the micro-photographic camera and focussed upon a Petri box of gelatine , across which a streak inoculation was made .
From our results so far with gelatine or agar we can only say that * For assistance in these experiments we are indebted to Dr. Fakirji Surveyor , who , with one of us , is engaged in the study of the action of the spectrum upon the pathogenic organisms .
Prof. It .
Boyce and Mr. A. E. Evans .
the growth does not appear to he affected by any of the colours .
Some of those who have seen our results think there is more growth towards the blue end ; others , on the other hand , towards the red end .
We ourselves have come to no definite conclusion as yet .
Microscopic Characters of the Cultures in the various Nutrient Media .
\#151 ; The series of photographs which illustrate these points have been fixed and stained in the gelatine , as previously mentioned .
We have divided them into three groups .
The first group , figs. 15 to 20 , represent the filamentous phase of the early growth ; fig. 17 , for example , representing the long segments observed in the rapidly growing pinnate filaments .
Groups II and III quickly follow upon the first .
Group II , figs. 21 to 23 , we venture to call the skein , which we think corresponds to the etat enchevetre of Billet .
Group III , figs. 24\#151 ; 31 , we think represent the zooglea phase .
There yet remains a fourth group , which we have not represented , and in which the segments live an independent existence ( as partly shown in fig. 18 ) and very often are freely motile .
We would call this the dissociated phase , the-etat dissocie of Billet .
We have in this system of group phase division , , therefore , followed Billet.* Whether this is a reasonable method of division will have to be judged from our photographs , from certain peculiarities exhibited by the above-mentioned groups , and lastly and chiefly from further examples .
In figs. 15 and 16 , Zeiss obj .
, mm. 75 without eyepiece , the original streak of inoculation and the branches which spring from it are seen .
The streak presents interesting peculiarities .
Very slight liquefaction of the gelatine may be observed in it , and then very commonly swarming obtains ; as previously mentioned , the motile segments may vary very greatly in length .
In the figures in question clumps of bacilli occupy the central streak .
In some cases , however , long zooglea-like twisted masses , like those seen in fig. 25 , run straight along this streak , it thus appearing as if their direction had been determined by the inoculating needle .
In other cases the central streak is a mass of round zoogleaform collections .
It will be seen that the micro-photographs in the first group afford very little evidence of the negatively geotropic tendency of the filaments , only the slight amount depicted in fig. 15 being often seen .
The thicker branches in figs. 15 and 16 , and all the branches in figs. 24 and 25 , have assumed the zoogleaform condition .
The microscopic picture presented by the rapidly growing pinnate form differs very markedly from these ; in it nearly all the fibres in the field run parallel to one another , the microscopic picture then quite coinciding with the microscopic appearance seen , say , in fig. 1 or 14 .
In the pinnate forms it is exceedingly difficult to trace the origin of the fibres in the central line as well as to follow out the mode of branching ; this , is- * Loc .
cit. The A ction of Gravity upon Bacterium Zopfii .
307 chiefly owing to the filaments slightly burrowing into the gelatine .
The filaments may be very long and unbranched , but when branching does occur it appears to be brought about as in Cladothrix by the deflection of a segment to one side and subsequent growth .
Soon after they are formed the long slender rami exhibit a remarkable proneness to twist and to Segment , and then to pass into the zoogleaform or , less commonly , into the skein phases .
The twisting is very striking , and some idea of it can be gathered from figs. 19 , 25 , 26 , 27 , 28 , 29 , 3Q .
In none of these photos is the spirilliform twist of single filaments shown ; it is , however , exceedingly common ; the spiral is nevertheless seen in the zooglea phases , figs. 25 , 26 , 30 .
There are , therefore , twists in the horizontal plane , and spirilliform twists .
Concerning these twists it appears very remarkable that the majority appear to turn inwards , that is , in the opposite direction to the hands of the clock .
To this point we will return when discussing the geotropism .
It will be gathered from the above and from the photos that the segments may exhibit the " / orm phases " long ago laid stress upon by Zopf and Lankester ; we need not , therefore , dwell upon them .
The spiral is a striking feature in all gelatine preparations , but is .
only slightly marked in agar , whilst we have not as yet observed it in broth ; but , we may add , we have not examined a sufficient number of these latter specimens .
Skein Phases.\#151 ; The meaning which we wish to convey in this name is set forth in figs. 21 , 22 , and 23 .
We lay no stress upon it , but the term is convenient , for it is the form which can , we think , always be seen upon agar and stiff gelatine .
It will be seen that it is quite unlike the zoogleaform phase .
The filaments composing it are net-held together by a common cementing substance , but are formed by plaits taking place in the course of a filament , as seen in figs. 21 and 19 .
Fig. 23 from an agar culture will at once recall the medusiform appearance of the anthrax growth .
Its formation appears to be very closely related to the stiffness of the medium upon which it is growing , and appears always to occur upon the surface of the medium ; the skeins are usually moist , and to the eye present a glistening frosted appearance .
Zoogleaform Phases.\#151 ; This is the phase one commonly sees upon gelatine , and its striking appearance is well represented in figs. 24\#151 ; 31 .
Zoogleas are said to result from either the aggregation of dissociated elements or from the multiplication of segments which remain where they are formed , being held together by a common cementing substance .
Of the former mode of formation we have no experience , and we venture to think that it is not common .
If one turns to the descriptions of the higher bacteria , the impression is gained that the zooglea masses have resulted from local multiplication ; that this is so in Bacterium Zopfii the photographs show , as Prof. R. Boyce and Mr. A. E. Evans .
well as the experiment of mixing a small quantity of the bacterium in liquefied sterile gelatine and then pouring it into a Petri dish ; in the latter case numerous zoogleaform colonies develop in the solid gelatine , and send out branches which ramify in all directions .
The branching zofiglea of Oladothrix dichoto commonly known as Zodglea ramigera , follows closely the arrangement and branching of the filamentous stage ; similarly , the " linear , globose , arborescent , reticular , and tesselated aggregations " of the Bacterium rubescens of Lankester probably represent local cell aggregation .
As our figures show , the mode of aggregation leads to various forms , but they usually possess one feature in common , and that is spirillation , and a large number may be aptly compared to the twisted strands of a rope .
The segments of which they are composed are small bacteroid or coccal forms , and they appear to be formed by the deflection and division of the minute segments into which the original single filaments break up .
They rapidly follow the filamentous growth in the symmetrical pinnate cultivations ; like the filaments which precede them , they assume the geotropic position .
They may extend great lengths and be quite unbranched , or branching may occur as in figs. 30 and 31 .
Like the filaments , they form in the gelatine ; we have not observed them in agar or broth .
In fig. 31 a sarcina-like arrangement of the segments is seen ; this is of interest , because , as Billet has pointed out , the sarcina of the lower bacteria probably is the representative of the zooglea phase of the higher bacteria .
Upon the Phenomenon of Negative exhibited by Bacterium Zopfii .
If a tube of gelatine is inoculated with a streak culture and kept in a nearly vertical position , a regular pinnate growth will , in the majority of cases , be obtained , identical with fig. 1 .
If a series of such tubes are placed at intermediate positions between the vertical and horizontal , it will be found that the growths become more and more irregular as the horizontal is reached .
These results we have repeatedly obtained since May , 1892 .
But apparent failures do occur : e.g. , if the gelatine is too stiff , an irregular growth results , as in the case of agar , although the tube is kept vertical ; microscopic examination of these irregular growths shows the skein phase .
Similarly , if the temperature is low the symmetry is greatly interfered with .
Experiments in the same manner with Petri boxes give , when sloped , the appearance already noticed in figs. 2 to 7 .
The pinnate growth is , in these cases , not so striking on the surface as with test-tube cultures , but , as we have previously remarked , the filaments which penetrate the gelatine ran a perfectly parallel course upwards , at an angle of about 45 ' , into the substance of the ; the same The Action of Gravity upon Bacterium Zopfii .
309 phenomenon may be observed in test-tubes , especially when the growth upon the surface tends to he irregular .
If the Petri boxes are kept horizontal , the surface of the gelatine is soon covered with a quite uniform growth , in which , if rami can be distinguished , they take no particular direction .
If , instead of these boxes , glass plate cultures are made , and in which , therefore , the coating of gelatine is necessarily thin , a pinnate growth with rami at the angle of about 45 ' is never obtained .
The chance of getting a symmetrical growth upon a large flat surface is therefore much less than in the case of a test-tube .
The explanation is difficult .
In the test-tube , the surface of the gelatine has a slight curvature , and one often notices that towards the edge of the Petri dishes , where the gelatine is also slightly curved , the growth is more regular .
Inequalities on the surface of the gelatine do cause alterations in the direction of the rami , and in some cases a few of the branches on this account appear to take a positive geotropic position .
Thus , in addition to temperature and consistence of substratum , there are other circumstances which may favour or retard a symmetrical growth .
When test-tubes containing streak cultures are placed upon the vertical disc of the clinostat , and revolved at rates between one revolution in 2 minutes to 1 in 1 hour , there is in the first place a partial-absence of the delicate rami seen in vertically sloped tubes , and when rami are formed they grow in various directions .
Pig .
13 shows the irregular growth which first started , and grew over the middle area of the gelatine , and then the formation at the periphery of delicate rami , which in this case are completely horizontal .
If a Petri dish is substituted for the test-tube , the result depicted in fig. 8 is obtained , a mode of growth which offers a striking comparison to figs. 2\#151 ; 6 .
Our results with the clinostat have been invariably the same , and , therefore , accord with what Sachs* obtained with the higher plants when the disc of the clinostat revolved slowly .
In his case the direction of growth was neither that induced by gravity nor by centrifugal force .
Having repeated these experiments very many times , we next tried Knight 's experiment upon the action of centrifugal force upon growing plants .
In his paper which was communicated to the Royal Society in 1806 , he showed that , if young plants were rotated at rates varying between 80 to 250 times in a minute , that the ascending axis of the plant was centripetal , and the radicle centrifugal .
Great was our satisfaction when we found likewise that the rami of Bacterium , which , from the preceding experiments , we considered negatively geotropic , took a marked centripetal course when rotated in the horizontal at the rate of about 240 revolutions per minute .
We obtained , in fact , as fig. 14 shows , much more symmetrical and beautiful results than * Wurzburg , Med.-Phys .
Gesellschaft , March , 1872 .
Prof. R. Boyce and Mr. A. E. Evans .
in the case of gravity .
The angle remains about the same , and on microscopic examination the rami are found in nearly all cases strictly parallel and unbranched .
Our experiments thus show that we get a pinnate growth of Bacterium Zopfii when the surface of the medium is kept in or near the vertical , or when the culture is rapidly rotated in the horizontal .
That an irregular growth obtains when the gelatine surface is horizontal , or when it is slowly rotated in the vertical .
That it is necessary in order to demonstrate the upward growth to have a suitable temperature and suitable medium , and that other factors , , the nature of which we do not understand , probably likewise influence the symmetrical growth .
We would also draw attention to the fact that on vertical or nearly vertical gelatine surfaces , an irregular growth usually spreads downwards ( compare fig. 6 ) upon the surface , and that when a horizontal surface of gelatine is inoculated , extension of the organism takes place vertically downwards into the substance of the gelatine ; but in neither of these cases are the well-defined rami present .
The question now remains , is the force which induces the upward growth of the protoplasmic threads of Bacterium Zopfii , gravity ?
Rozanoff* brought forward a beautiful example of upward growth in one of the Myxomycetes , JEthalium septicum .
He grew it upon a nearly vertical surface of filter paper through which a very slow stream of water must have been constantly passing , as the upper edge of the paper rested in water .
He found that the fungus grew upwards .
He repeated Knight 's centrifugal experiment , and found the fungus centripetal ; during this , experiment the filter paper was kept moist with water , and therefore the latter must have tended to fly outwards .
He grew the jBthalium upon a horizontal surface of paper , across which a slow stream passed from one side to the other , and he found that growth did not take place more against the stream than with the stream .
He argued whether this was an example of negative geotropism or of growth induced by the contrary stream of water , and he concluded that ZHthalium was negatively geotropic , but that the contrary flow of xvater acted like the force of gravity and of centrifugalism .
To our minds this does not seem an illogical conclusion , but Strasburger maintained that it was an example of rheotropism alone .
Rheotrop-ism , as far as fluid is concerned , cannot enter into our case .
Our-tubes were always plugged with absorbent cotton wool , and were not capped , and we never noticed moisture upon the surface of the gelatine , and , in any case , the geotropic rami tend to very slightly or deeply penetrate the gelatine .
We have stated that both in vertical and centrifugalised gelatine growths , rami tend to pass deeply into the gelatine .
How we have observed , when we have placed in the * ' Mem. Soc. Imp .
des Sciences , Cherbourg , ' vol. 14 .
The Action of Gravity upon Bacterium Zopfii .
311 glass dishes gelatine to the depth of 1 inch or more , that at the lower portion of the streak of inoculation the rami which penetrated the gelatine were very distinctly more horizontal than those higher np .
This phenomenon is also very conspicuously marked in the case of centrifugalised tubes .
Further , our great difficulty in connexion with centrifugalising gelatine is to keep it in position , for in a large number of our experiments the gelatine is forced to the bottom of the tube , and the cotton plug is often driven some distance into the tube .
We can see , further , that the compression to which the gelatine is subjected increases towards the distal end of the tube .
Towards the distal end , however , the rami tend to become more horizontal , so it seems very much as if the tension of the gelatine caused the increased deviation to the horizontal .
Having gone so far , we may ask why the rami are not orthogeotropic .
We hare many times called attention to the fact that the delicate filaments tend always to dip under the gelatine , and it may possibly be that it is the resistance of the gelatine which causes the deviation from the vertical to the curious angle of about 45 ' .
We may here mention that this fact of the tendency to penetrate the gelatine is in apparent contradiction to the fact , that , as our experiments showed , COa hinders and O favours symmetrical growth .
How , as a matter of fact , very little growth is obtained from a stab culture , so , therefore , it appears necessary that some portion of the growth should be close to or freely in contact with the air , and this obtains in streak cultures .
To return to the action of the resistance of the gelatine , we have called attention to the fact that , next to the pinnate form of growth , the most striking feature in the life of Bacterium Zopfii is the tendency to curl .
Kurth attributes this fact to the resistance of the gelatine .
Now the twisting and the geotropic position of the rami we find tend to go hand in hand ; they both tend to disappear upon agar or hard gelatine .
Zopf noticed the absence of twisted forms in fluid .
We find , as has been above stated , that the majority of the twists are in a direction contrary to the hands of a clock ; many of the photographs show this , and these were taken at a time before we had directed our attention to the nature of the twist- Amongst the higher plants the inward twist is the commoner , and various theories have been made to account for the twisting .
If we examine the rami which penetrate the gelatine we note that if they tend to be curved they tend to be convex on the lower surface , and that thus we tend to have two surfaces , a dorsal and a ventral , and can imagine with the botanist a difference in the tension of the protoplasm on these sides of the filament .
According to De Vries , whose paper from the Wurtz-burg Institute we have not been able to obtain , geotropism is not an improbable factor in the production of coils ( Sachs ) .
Wortmann* also * " Theory des Windens .
" * Bot. Zeitung , ' 1886 .
312 The Action of Gravity upon Bacterium Zopfii .
regards coiling as the result of geotropism , and a second factor which he terms rotating mutation .
In our case the coils may be related to the resistance of the gelatine and the negative geotropism .
But spirillar forms are well known throughout the microphytes ; they are present in Cladothrix and many more lowly-organised forms , and are found abundantly in fluid .
Do , therefore , the spiral forms which we have described as forming in the gelatine correspond to the free spiral forms of the above examples ?
If they do , and we have not sufficient evidence to say they correspond , then the forces concerned in their formation in the one case would be equally applicable to the other .
DESCRIPTION OP PLATES .
Plate 1 .
Fig- .
10.\#151 ; Represents a vertical streak inoculation upon agar .
The irre* gular growth is characteristic .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; This represents a culture which was first grown in an atmosphere of carbonic acid , and the only growth obtained was the thick irregular streak seen along the centre of the tube .
It wras then transferred to oxygen , and a pinnate growth obtained , as in the figure .
Fig. 14.\#151 ; A typical symmetrical growth obtained by centrifugalising the culture tube in the horizontal .
Plate 2 .
Fig. 23.\#151 ; Skein , or Medusa-like growth , obtained upon agar .
Fig. 28.\#151 ; Zooglea threads , showing the phenomenon of twisting .
Gelatine growth .
Fig. 10 .
Fig. 12 .
Fig. 14 .
Boyce fie Evans .
Proc. Roy .
Soc. Vol. 54 , PI .
1 .
noyce Cf Jhvans .
rroc .
my .
me .
04 , rl .
A. r Fig. 28 .
Fig. 23 .

