222 Mr. E. Hull on the Coalfields beneath [ Dec. 15 , December 15 , 1870 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Duke of Sutherland was admitted into the Society .
The reading of the Report Jon Deep-sea Researches carried on during the months of July , August , and September 1870 , in H.M. Surveying Ship * Porcupine , ' by Dr. Carpenter , F.R.S. , and Mr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys , F.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
December 22 , 1870 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; * ij \#171 ; On the Extension of the Coal-fields beneath the Newer Formations of England ; and the Succession of Physical Changes whereby the Coal-measures have been reduced to their present dimensions .
" By Edward Hull , M.A. , F.R.S. , F.G.S. , Director of the Geological Survey of Ireland .
Received November 30 , 1870 .
' ( Abstract .
) . . .
In this paper the author , embodying with his own the observations of previous writers on the physical geology of Great Britain , especially those of Murchison , Godwin-Austen , Ramsay , Phillips , and the late Professor Jukes , showed that the Coal-measures were originally distributed over large tracts of England , to the north and to the south of a central ridge or barrier of Old Silurian and Cambrian rocks , which stretched across the country from North Wales and Shropshire into the Eastern Counties , skirting the southern margin of the South Staffordshire Coal-field .
This barrier , or ridge , was a land-surface till the close of the Carboniferous period .
To the north of the central barrier , the highlands of Wales , the mountains of the Lake-district , and probably small tracts of the southern uplands of Scotland formed land-surfaces skirting portions of the Carboniferous area , while the Carboniferous tract to the south of the central barrier was probably bounded by a land-surface trending along the southern eoast of England .
The distribution of the Coal-measures at the close of the Carboniferous period was illustrated by a Map , No. 1 .
It was then shown that the whole Carboniferous area was subjected to disturbances through the agency of lateral forces , whereby the strata were thrown into folds along axes ranging ( approximately ) in east and west directions ; and as denudation accompanied and followed these disturbances , and acted chiefly over the arches ( or anticlinals ) , large tracts were divested of Upper Carboniferous strata , and thus the first phase in the marking out of the limits of our present coal-fields was brought about .
The effects o these movements and denudations were illustrated by Map No. 2 .
The disturbances which ensued after the deposition of the Permian 1870 .
] the Newer Formations of England .
223 strata , and which produced the discordances of stratification between the newer Palaeozoic and Mesozoic formations , were shown to have acted along lines ranging approximately north and south , parallel to the axis of the Pennine Chain , and consequently in a direction transverse to those of the previous period .
These disturbances were also accompanied by the denudation of strata from off the anticlinal arches , and the consequent disseverance of the Coal-measure tracts over certain definite areas .
The results of these movements ( the second phase in defining the bounds of the coal-fields ) were illustrated by Map No. 3 .
From a consideration of the foregoing observations , the author came to the conclusion that the tendency of the British coal-fields to arrange themselves into the form of " basins " ( sometimes partially concealed by newer strata ) , a tendency strongly insisted on by Prof. Ramsay , F.R.S. , was due to the intersection of the two systems of flexures above described , one anterior to the Permian period , the other anterior to the Triassic period , and that the actual disseverance of the coal-fields into basins was due to denudation acting with greatest effect along the anticlinal arches of these flexures .
The inference that the Yorkshire and Durham coal-fields are really basins rising to the eastward under the Mesozoic strata was drawn , an inference supported by the easterly rise of the Coal-measures along the sea-coast from the Coquette to the Tyne .
Guided by these principles , the author maintained that we are now in a position to determine with great accuracy the actual limits of the Coal-measures under the Mesozoic formations over the area to the north of the central barrier ridge ( as indicated on Map No. 3 ) ; and that to the south of the ridge the application of the same principles would assist towards the solution of the question , though in a less degree , owing to the fewer opportunities for observation of the Palaeozoic formations .
The author , however , concurred in the ' views advanced by Sir R. I. Murchison* , that in consequence of the great amount of denudation which the Carboniferous rocks had undergone over the area of the south of England previous to the deposition of the Mesozoic formations , little coal was to be expected to remain under the Cretaceous rocks* II .
" On the Constitution of the Solid Crust of the Earth .
" By the Yen .
John Henry Pratt , Archdeacon of Calcutta , M.A. , F.R.S. Received September 19 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author applies the data furnished by the pendulum-observations recently made in India to test the truth of the following hypo- .
* In hia Address at the Meeting of the British Association at Nottingham , 1866 .
On the other hand , the views of Mr. R. Godwin-Austen , F.R.S. , which tend rather in an opposite direction , should be well weighed by all who are interested in this question .
( Quart , Journ , Geol .
Soc , vol. xii .
)

