The reading of Mr. Airy 's paper , entitled " On the Eclipses of Agathocles , Thales and Xerxes , " was resumed and concluded .
The author , after remarking that the calculations of distant eclipses made in the last century possess little value , proceeds to give the successive steps of improvement in the lunar theory as applicable to the computation of eclipses , and especially in the motion of the moon 's node .
The first great improvement was the introduction by Laplace of terms expressing a progressive change in the mean secular motions .
With Burg 's tables , in which these changes were introduced , or with the same elements , Mr. Francis Bailey and Mr. Ottmanns computed many eclipses in the search for that usually called the eclipse of Thales ; and both these astronomers fixed upon the eclipse of B.C. 610 , September 30 , as the only one which could be reconciled with the account of Herodotus .
Mr. Bailey however subjoined a computation of the eclipse of Agathocles from the same elements , and found that this could not by any means be reconciled with the historical account ; he inferred from this that some serious change in the theory is necessary , and that when it was introduced the eclipse of B.c. 610 might not be found to agree with history ; but he thought it certain that no other eclipse could be adopted .
The various values of the motion of the node adopted by different writers from different observations ( principally total or annular eclipses ) are then collected .
Allusion is then made to the peculiar value of the eclipse of Stiklastad ( brought to notice by Professor Hansteen ) , and which will be increased when the calculations shall have been made on unexceptional elements .
The author then adverts to the great Reduction of the Greenwich Observations from 1750 to 1830 , to Hansen 's new inequalities , and to the numerical amounts of corrections of the principal elements .
Then are given the coefficients of the change in secular value of mean motion of the mean of the moon 's perigee , and of the moon 's node , as found by Laplace , Damoiseau , Plana , and Hansen ; the principal change made by the latter writers from Laplace 's values being in the motion of perigee .
The method of computation adopted by the author is then explained .
He adopts the Greenwich mean motions and Damoiseau 's coefficients for progressive change of secular mean motion .
He then repeats the calculation with an arbitrary change of longitude of node ; considering that , from the loose nature of the early Greenwich observations , this element is most likely to be in error , and that its errors will produce the greatest effect .
The author then discusses the account of the eclipse of Agathocles , B.C. 310 , August 15 .
Adopting Alhowareah ( under Cape Bon ) as his landing-place in Africa , lie states his belief that Agathocles sailed northward from Syracuse ( a conjecture which he owes in the first instance to J. W. Bosanquet , Esq. ) , and was not far from the Straits of Messina .
On the usual supposition of his sailing to the south , he would be near Cape Passaro .
On making the calculation with the Greenwich Elements unvaried , it is found that the eclipse would be total on the southern possible place of Agathocles , but not on the northern .
TIhe calculation being repeated with an arbitrary change in the place of the node , a graphical construction is employed to discover the numerical amount of the changes that must be made to satisfy the four following conditions:-1 , the northern edge of the shadow touches the south station ; 2 , the northern edge touches the north station ; 3 , the southern edge touches the south station ; 4 , the southern edge touches the north station .
If the south station be adopted , the change must lie between those of conditions 1 and 3 ; if the north , the change must lie between those of 2 and 4 .
The numerical values must be slightly increased for application to a more distant eclipse , as to that of Thales .
The eclipse of Thales is then considered .
There appears to be no reason for connecting the locality ( as Mr. Bailey supposed ) with the river Halys .
The historical circumstances indicate with great probability that two large armies had met ; and the question appears to be , in what part of Asia Minor is it likely that such bodies of troops would be collected .
The author adverts to the form and passes of the mountains , and decides that the Median army entered most pro .
bably by the pass of Issus , or possibly by that of Melitene , and that the battle-field might be anywhere in the space bounded by Melitene , Issus , Iconium , Sardes , and Ancyra .
On calculating the eclipses which occurred for many years before and after B.C. 600 , it appears that only the eclipse of B.c. 585 , May 28 , answers to the requisite conditions , and that it does so in a most satisfactory way .
[ This is the date adopted by the principal ancient chronologists ; it would seem that it was first verified , by calculations founded on good elements , by J. R. Hind , Esq. during the preparation of this paper .
] The path of the shadow which is most agreeable to the military and geographical circumstances , is one which implies a correction to the Greenwich Elements corresponding to that which would make the eclipse of Agathocles nearly central over the northern station , and excludes the possibility of his passing by the southern route .
The author then adverts to the principal remaining causes of uncertainty in these conclusions , and points out the values of progressive change in the secular mean motions as peculiarly deserving investigation .
Allusion is then made to a record in the Persian poetical history , preserved by Sir John Malcolm , which appears to point to a total eclipse as occurring under similar circumstances in the province of Mazenderan .
It appears however on calculation , that no total eclipse passed over Mazenderan , at least for many years , about the time in question .
The author then calls attention to the statement of Herodotus , that something like a total solar eclipse occurred when Xerxes was setting out from Sardes for his invasion of Greece .
On calculation it appears impossible to explain this by a solar eclipse , and moreover the peculiar turn of the answer of the Magi to the inquiries of Xerxes would seem to be irreconcilable with a solar eclipse .
The author.thinks it most likely that the phenomenon really was the total eclipse of the moon which occurred on the morning of B.c. 479 , March 14 .
If this were adopted , the date of the invasion of Greece must be brought down one year later than that given by the received chronology .

