1880 .
] On the Chemical Composition of Aleur one-Grains .
November 25 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice was given from the Chair of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting , and the list of Officers and Council nominated for election was read , as follows :\#151 ; President.\#151 ; William Spottiswoode , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; John Evans , D.C.L. , LL. D. .
f Professor George Gabriel Stokes , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. ecretanes .
^ Professor Thomas Henry Huxley , LL. D. Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Professor Alexander William Williamson , Ph. D. , LL. D. Other Members of the Co'uncil.\#151 ; William Henry Barlow , Pres. Inst. 'C.E .
; Rev. Professor Thomas George Bonney , M.A. , Sec. G.S. ; George Busk , F.L.S. ; Right Hon. Sir Richard Assheton Cross , G.C.B. ; Edward Dunkin , Y.P.R.A.S. ; Alexander John Ellis , B.A. ; Thomas Archer Hirst , Ph. D. ; William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. ; Professor John Marshall , F.R.C.S. ; Professor Daniel Oliver , F.L.S. ; Professor Alfred Newton , M.A. , Pres. C.P.S. ; Professor William Odling , M.B. , Y.P.C.S. ; Henry Tibbats Stainton , F.G.S. ; Sir James Paget , Bart. , H. C.L. ; William Henry Perkin , Sec. C.S. ; Lieut.-Gen .
Richard .Strachey , R.E. , C.S.I. Mr. A. J. B. Beresford-Hope was admitted into the Society .
The Right Hon. Sir G. Jessel , Knt. , whose certificate had been suspended as required by the Statutes , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Chemical Composition of Aleurone-Grains .
" By S. H. Yines , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. Michael Foster , F.R.S. , P reelect or of Physiology in Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received September 17 , 1880 .
The following is an account of further researches on this subject ; abstracts of results have already been given in " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. 28 , p. 218 , and vol. 30 , p. 387 .
Or .
S. H. Vines .
[ Nov. IV .
The Aleurone- Grains of the Sunflower ( Helianthus animus ) .
a Microscopical Observations.\#151 ; The sections of the seeds were treated witn ether or alcohol , to remove the oil .
The grains became vacnolated on treatment with water .
They dissolve completely in 10 per cent. NaCl solution .
' H they have been previously treated with alcohol , they dissolve readily and completely in saturated NaCl solution ; but if they have been previously treated with ether they only become vacuolated b Chemical Observations.\#151 ; The seeds were ground in a hand-mill , and treated with alcohol or ether to remove the oil .
The watery extract of the seeds gives no precipitate on boiling On concentrating the fluid , and then allowing it to filter into alcohol , a dense precipitate is formed .
This substance is readily soluble in distilled water , and its solution gives the xanthoproteic and Millon's-reactions , a rose colour with KHO and CuS04 , a precipitate on the addition of HN03 , and an immediate precipitate on the addition of potassic ferrocyanide after acidification with acetic acid .
The 10 per cent. NaCl extract gives a precipitate on boiling , and on saturation with NaCl .
The saturated NaCl extract gives , when the seeds have previously been treated with alcohol , a dense precipitate on boiling , and on dilution ; if the seeds have been previously treated with ether , the amount of the precipitate is much less ; boiling produces little more-than a turbidity .
These observations , taken together , show that these grains contain : ( 1 ) a substance ( vegetable peptone or hemialbumose ) which is soluble in water ; ( 2 ) a substance which is soluble in 10 per cent. NaCl solution , precipitable from its solution by saturation with NaCl , and which therefore belongs to the group of myosin-globulins ; ( 3 ) a substance " which is soluble in saturated NaCl solution , whether the grains have been treated with alcohol or ether , and which therefore belongs to the group of the vitellin-globulins ; and ( 4 ) a substance which , like the-crystalloids of Ricinus described in a previous communication , is soluble in saturated NaCl solution only after previous treatment with alcohol .
V. The Aleurone-Crains of the Brazil-Nut ( Bertholletia excelsa ) .
a. Microscopical Observations .
Like those of Ricmus , the grains of this plant present no indication of a complex structure when mounted in alcohol ; on the addition of water they become transparent , and the crystalloid , as well as the curiously irregular globoid , can be seen .
On treatment with 10 per cent. NaCl solution , the whole grain ( excepting , of course , the globoid ) dissolves .
Treatment with saturated NaCl solution produces the same result , .
1880 .
] On the Chemical Composition of 61 and it is not affected by previous treatment of the grains with ether or alcohol .
b. Chemical Observations.\#151 ; The seeds were crushed in a mortar , and then treated with either alcohol or ether to remove the oil .
The watery extract of the seeds gives a slight precipitate on boiling ; the filtrate gives no precipitate on boiling ; it gives the reactions of a fluid holding peptones in solution ; it also gives a precipitate with HNOs .
The 10 per cent. NaCl extract gives a dense precipitate on boiling , , as well as on dilution , and on saturation with NaCl .
The saturated NaCl extract gives a dense precipitate on boiling and on dilution .
From these observations it appears that these grains consist of vegetable peptone and of globulins , the one belonging to the myosin , the other to the vitellin group .
Weyl has shown ( " Zeitschr .
f. Physiol. Chem. , " Bd .
I , 1877 ) that the crystalloids of these grains consist of pure vitellin ; hence the-peptone and the myosin must be contained in the ground-substance of the grains .
General Remarks .
The investigation of the aleurone-grains of a number of different species of plants has shown that , with a few exceptions mentioned below , they may be classified under the five types which have been described in this and previous communications .
1 find , contrary to the opinion of Pfeffer ( " Jahrb .
f. wiss .
Bot. " viii , 1872 ) , that all the aleurone-grains which I have examined are soluble to some extent at least in water ; they are also all soluble to some extent in 10 per cent. NaCl solution .
In the cases which have been described in detail , the grains were found to be completely soluble in this solution , but in others I found that the grains were only partially soluble in it , residue dissolving either in 1 per cent. Na2C03 solution , or in dilute KHO , and therefore consisting of some form of albuminate , which may be regarded as altered globulin .
The proteid substances detected in the grains may be classified as follows : \#151 ; I. Soluble in distilled water :\#151 ; Vegetable peptone ( hemialbumose ?
) .
II .
Insoluble in distilled water:\#151 ; a. Soluble in 10 per cent. NaCl solution .
Globulins .
( \#171 ; .
) Insoluble in saturated NaCl , \#151 ; Vegetable myosin .
( / 3 .
) Soluble in saturated NaCl solution , after treatment with alcohol , \#151 ; Substance of crystalloids of Ricinus , \amp ; c. *62 On Chemical Composition of [ Nov. 25 , ( 7 .
) Soluble in saturated NaCl solution after ether or __ Vegetable vitellin .
b. Insoluble in 10 per cent. NaCl solution .
Albuminates .
( \lt ; * .
) Soluble in 1 per cent. Na2C03 solution .
( yS .
) Soluble in dilute KHO .
I have placed by itself the peculiar proteid which constitutes the -crystalloids of Ricinus , and which occurs in the grains of Heli-anthus , for , although , as I have previously pointed out , it resembles myosin in its properties before treatment with alcohol and vitellin after it , it differs from both these substances in that it is less readily .soluble in 10 per cent. NaCl solution .
The following is an arrangement of the species examined according to the solubility of the grains .
It must be borne in mind , however , that the observations upon which this arrangement depends are , for the most part , simply microscopical , but the close agreement between the results of microchemical and macrochemical methods in the cases which have been given at length justifies an inference as to the probable composition of a grain from the results of one method only .
Classification of Aleurone-Grains I. Soluble in water:\#151 ; Pseonia officinalis ( type ) .
Ranunculus acris .
Aconitum Na-pellus .
Anemone Pulsatilla .
Nigella damascena .
Helleborus foetidus .
Amygdalus communis .
Prunus cerasus .
Pyrus malus .
Cynara Scolymus .
Scorzonera hispanica .
Leontodon Taraxacum .
Dipsacus Fullonum .
Ipomoea purpurea .
Phlox Drummondi .
Fceniculum officinale .
Impatiens glandulifera .
Vitis vinifera .
II .
Completely , and more or less readily , soluble in 10 cent. NaCl solution .
a. Grains without crystalloids .
( a. ) Soluble in saturated NaCl solution after treatment with alcohol or ether:\#151 ; Lupinus hirsutus ( type ) .
Vicia Faba .
Pisum sativum .
Pha-seolus multiflorus .
Allium Cepa .
Iris pumila ( par .
atrocceru-lea ) .
Colchicum autumnale .
Berberis vulgaris .
Althaea rosea .
Tropeeolum majus .
Mercurialis annua .
Empetrum nigrum .
Primula officinalis .
.(/ ? .
) Soluble in saturated NaCl solution after alcohol , but not after ether:\#151 ; Helianthus annuus ( type ) .
Platycodon ( Wahlenbergia ) grandi-flora .
Erodium gruinum .
Sabal Adansoni .
Delphinium car1880.1 Ossification of the Terminal Phalanges of the Digits .
63 diopetalum .
Trollius europaea .
Actea spicata .
Caltha palustris .
Aquilegia vulgaris .
Campanula rotundifolia .
Dianthus Caryo-phyllus .
Brassica rapa , Lepidium sativum .
Medicago sativa , Oedrus Deodara .
Larix europaea .
Ephedra altissima .
Cyno-glossum officinale .
Spinacia oleracea .
b. Grains with crystalloids .
( a. ) Crystalloids soluble in saturated NaCl solution after treatment with alcohol or ether :\#151 ; Bertholletia excelsa ( type ) .
Adonis autumnalis .
iEthusa Cyna-pium .
Digitalis purpurea .
Cucurbita Pepo .
( / J. ) Crystalloids soluble in saturated NaCl solution after alcohol , but not after ether:\#151 ; Ricinus communis ( type ) .
Datura Stramonium .
Atropa Belladonna .
Elais guineensis .
Salvia officinalis .
Taxus baccata .
Pinus Pinea .
Cannabis sativa .
Linum nsitatissimum .
Viola elatior .
Ruta graveolens .
Juglans regia .
III .
Partially soluble in 10 per cent. NaCl solution .
a. Entirely soluble in 1 per cent. Na2C03 solution :\#151 ; Pulmonaria mollis .
Omphalodes longiflora .
Borago caucasica .
Myosotis palustris .
Clarkia pulchella .
b. Entirely soluble in dilute KHO .
( m. ) Grains without crystalloids:\#151 ; Anchusa officinalis .
Lithospermum officinale .
Echium vulgare .
Heliotropium peruvianum .
Lythrum Salicaria .
( f3 .
) Grains with crystalloids :\#151 ; Cupressus Lawsoniana .
Juniperus communis .
Euphorbia La-thyris .
II .
" On the Ossification of the Terminal Phalanges of the Digits .
" By F. A. Dixey , B.A. Oxon .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received October 5 , 1880 .
[ Plates 1 , 2 .
] From the Physiological Laboratory of University College , In a preliminary note on the ossification of the terminal phalanges of the digits , * it was stated that the diaphyses of the ungual phalanges differed in their mode of ossification from those of other long bones .
The object of the present paper is to give an account of the process of * Ante , vol. 30 , p. 550 .

