The following papers were read:1 .
" On the Solution of Linear Differential Equations .
" By the Rev. Brice Bronwin , M.A. Communicated by S. Hunter Christie , Esq. , Sec. R.S. The methods employed in this paper to effect the solution or reduction of linear differential equations consist of certain peculiar transformations , and each particular class of equations is transformed by a distinct process peculiarly its own .
The reduction is effected by means of certain general theorems in the calculus of operations .
The terms which form the first member of the first class of equations are functions of the symbols w and r , the latter being a function of x , and the former a function of x and D , x being the independent variable .
This member of the equations contains two arbitrary functions of w , and may therefore be of any order whatever .
It likewise contains two simple factors , such for example as w and '+nnk , which factors are taken away by the transformation employed , and consequently the equation is reduced an order lower ; it is therefore integrated when of the second order .
There is a series of equations of this class , each essentially distinct from the rest , yet all reducible by a similar process .
These equations contain two arbitrary functions of x. The nunber therefore of particular practicable forms , which may be deduced from each , is very great , a circumstxance which renders our chance of putting any proposed equation under one of these forms greater in the same proportion .
On account of the very large number of particular integrable equations which each general example furnishes , selection would be very dificult , and all could not be given ; the author has therefore refrained from giving any .
The second class of equations may he deduced from the first by the interchange of the symbols D and x , adcl ch-anging g into r-1 .
The second general theorem can be deduced from the first in like manner ; and this class -may be transforined and reduced by it in a manner exactly similar to that by which the former class is reduced by the first general theorem .
The solution therefore of the one series may be deduced from that of the other by the interchange of symbols only .
But in the second series the solutions obtained are not always practicable , that is to say , they cannot always be interpreted in finite termss .
They have therefore been reduced by the introduction of new arbitrary functions of D , which render them practicable ; this process however necessarily diminishes their generality .
When reduced to the ordinary form , these equations are somewhat complicated ; but by giving suitable forms to the arbitrary funlctions of ' D which they contain , we may derive from them particular examples of a form as simple as we please , and by introducing as many arbitrary constants as possible , these examples may be imade very general of the class to which they belong .
In the integration of linear equations , the coefficients of which are integer functions of x , they may prove very useful .
INext , an equation , a particular case of which was treated by Mr. Boole in the Camnbridge Mathlematical Journal , is here integrated under its most general form .
Instead of integer functions of ' x the coefficients may be any functions whatever , consistent with the condition of integrability , which is ascertained , and the foirmula of reduction assunied by Mr. Boole are shown to be universally true .
An additional function of the independent variable is also introduced into the operating sym-bol 7r .
The eqnation therefore , independently of the condition of integrability , contains two arbitrary functions of x , and consequently gives rise to a considerable number of particular integrable examples .
Here also the iinterchange of the symbols D and x is made , both in the equation to be integrated and in the geneial symbolical theoren by which it is reduced , and the same reduction to practicable forms as before is likewise made .
The next class of equations results from the generalization of another equation integrated by Mr. Boole in the Cambridge Miathematical Journal .
Here the symbol D of Mr. Boole is replaced by the general symbol w , and mioreover the first member of each equation contains two arbitrary functions of w ; and by imeans of another extension , this example gives rise to a whole series of equations constituting a class .
The reduction is eff ?
ected partly by the first general theorem in the calculus of operations , and partly by other means .
It must be observed that each of the classes is totally distinct from the others , and its mode of treatment also distinct ; also each of the general examples in the series contains two arbitrary functions of the independent variable , and will therefore give the solutions of a large number of particular equations , but for the reason before stated particular examples are not given .
Here likewise , by the interchange of the symbols D and x , another series of equations with their solutions or reductions is obtained , and also another general theorem by which they may be transformed and reduced .
But the solutions of the examples of the one series may be deduced from those of the other by the interchange of symbols .
It is not a little remarkable that this interchange of symbols in all these cases should be found possible , it will however be found possible in another case to be hereafter described , The last class of equations discussed in this paper is transformed by means of a general theorem of a very different kind from any of those which have been employed in reducing and integrating any of the previous classes .
By means of this transformation , the symbol 'a , of which the first member of these equations is a function , is placed in a position to operate upon the whole of that miember , a certain equation of condition among the coefficients being previously admitted .
Hence by operating upon both members .
with the inverse of this symbol , the equation is once integrated , and , if it be of ' the second order only , completely solved .
Here too the interchange of symbols may be made both in the equation and its solution , and the solution so changed will be the solution of the equation changed in like manner .
The general symbolical theorems , which here consist of a series of term-s , may be derived the one from the other in the same way , and by changing the signs of the alternate terms .
Reductions of the arbitrary functions of D , similar to those before made , are made here also ; and by particularising soice of the functions so reduced for the sake of simplification , several very singular resulting equations are obtained .
If in these we assign to the remaining arbitrary filnctions , particular forms , and introduce as many arbitrary constants as we can , we vmay find particular examples which may be of ' great use in the integration of equations with coefficients containing only integer functions of x. By a very obvious substitution an arbitrary function of x may be introduced into any of this kind of equations , and also another function of D , and the last often with great advantage .

