1874 .
] On the Chemical Constitution of Saline Solutions .
241 the thermometer is put in motion , and immediately the tube has acquired a slightly oblique position , the mercury breaks off at the point D , runs into the curved and enlarged portion E , and eventually falls into the tube F , when this tube resumes its original perpendicular position .
The contrivance for turning the thermometer over may be described as a short length of wood or metal having attached to it a small rudder or fan ; this fan is placed on a pivot in connexion with a second , and on this second pivot is fixed the thermometer .
The fan or rudder points upwards in its descent through the water , and necessarily reverses its position in ascending .
This simple motion or half turn of the rudder gives a whole turn to the thermometer , and has been found very effective .
Various other methods may be used for turning the thermometer , such as a simple pulley with a weight which might be released on touching the bottom , or a small vertical propeller which would revolve in passing through the water .
March 19 , 1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Viscount Cardwell was admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Preliminary Notice of Experiments concerning the Chemical Constitution of Saline Solutions .
" By Walter Noel Hartley , F.C.S. , Demonstrator of Chemistry , King 's College , London .
Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received February 3 , 1874 .
The author has been engaged in investigating the above subject during the last eighteen months , and his experiments being still in progress , he thinks it desirable to place the following observations on record .
In the examination of the absorption-spectra , as seen in wedge-shaped cells , of the principal salts of cerium , cobalt , copper , chromium , didymium , nickel , palladium , and uranium , to the number of nearly sixty different solutions , it was noticed that the properties of the substances in regard to changes of colour could be ascertained by noticing the absorption-curves and bands , so that , provided water be without chemical action , it could be foreseen what change would occur on dilution of a saturated solution .
The effect of Heat on Absorption-spectra .
When saturated solutions of coloured salts are heated to 100 ' C. , 1st , 242 On the Chemical Constitution of Saline Solutions .
[ Mar. 19 , there are few cases in which no change is noticed .
2ndly , generally the amount of light transmitted is diminished to a small extent by some of the more refrangible , the less refrangible , or both kinds of rays being obstructed .
3rdly , there is frequently a complete difference in the nature of the transmitted light .
Anhydrous salts not decomposed , hydrated compounds not dehydrated at 100 ' C. , and salts which do not change colour on dehydration , give little or no alteration in their spectra when heated .
^ Solutions of hydrated salts , and most notably those of haloid compounds , do change ; and the alteration is , if not identical with , similar to that produced by dehydration and the action of dehydrating liquids , such as alcohol , acids , and glycerine , on the salts in crystals or solution .
A particular instance of the action of heat on an aqueous solution is that of cobalt chloride , which gives a different series of dark bands in the red part of the spectrum at different temperatures , ranging between 23 ' C. and 73 ' C. Band after band of shadow intercepts the red rays as the temperature rises , till finally nothing but the blue are transmitted .
Drawings of six different spectra of this remarkable nature have been made .
The changes are most marked between 33 ' and 53 ' , when the temperature may be told almost to a degree by noting the appearance of the spectrum .
Though to the unaided eye cobalt bromide appears to undergo the same change , yet , as seen with the spectroscope , it is not of so curious a character , the bands being not so numerous .
With cobalt iodide a band of red light is transmitted at low temperatures ; the band of light moves towards the opposite end of the spectrum , with rise of temperature , until it is transferred to such a position that it consists of green rays only .
In this instance the change to the eye is more striking when seen without the spectroscope , because the mixtures of red , yellow , and green rays , which are formed during the transition , give rise to very beautiful shades of brown and olive-green .
Thus a saturated solution at 16 ' C. was of a brown colour , at \#151 ; 10 ' C. it became of a fiery red and crystals separated , at +10 ' reddish brown , at 20 ' the same , at 35 Vandyke brown , at 45 ' a cold brown tint with a tinge of yellowish green , at 55 ' a decidedly yellowish green in thin layers and yellow-brown in thick , at 65 ' greenish brown , thin layers green , and at 75 ' olive-green .
An examination of this cobalt salt has shown that there are two distinct crystalline hydrates\#151 ; the one , formed at high temperatures , has the formula CoCl2,2H20 , and is of a dark green colour ; the other , which contains a much larger proportion of crystalline water , CoCl2,6HaO , is produced at a low temperature , and its colour is generally brown , in cold weather inclining to red .
' , , The action of heat on solutions of didymium is characterized by \#174 ; broadening of the black lines seen in the spectrum , more especi y o the important band in the yellow ; and in the case of potassio-didymium nitrate , this is accompanied by the formation of a new line .
In the case 1874 .
j On the Blood-corpuscles of Mammalia .
243 of didymium acetate , which decomposes with separation of a basic salt , the lines thickened on heating .
Thermo-chemical Experiments .
Kegnauld ( Institufc , 1864 ; Jahresbericht , 1864 , p. 99 ) has shown that on diluting a saturated solution of a salt , as a rule there is an absorption of heat ; but in one or two cases he noticed that heat was evolved .
The change in colour that takes place on the dilution of saturated solutions of cobalt iodide , cupric chloride , bromide , and acetate is very remarkable .
There is every likelihood that this phenomenon is due in each case to the formation of a liquid hydrate .
It is impossible of belief that accompanving such a circumstance there should be no measurable development of heat ; and the author 's experiments have proved that in the above cases , at any rate , the heat disengaged is very considerable\#151 ; amounting , for instance , on the part of cupric chloride , at least to about 2565 units when 1 gram molecule of the crystalline salt is dissolved in its minimum of water at 16 ' C. and brought into contact with sufficient to make the addition of 40 Aq .
These numbers only roughly approximate to the truth .
On diluting a solution of cobalt iodide till the red colour appears , the thermal effect must be much greater , as not only does it register several degrees on an ordinary thermometer , but it may be perceived by the hand .
The conclusions indicated by these results are obvious , but it is beyond the scope of this paper to refer to them .
The writer hopes before long to complete his experiments with the view of having them communicated to the Royal Society .
II .
" Note on the Intracellular Development of Blood-corpuscles in Mammalia .
" By Edward Albert Schafer .
Communicated by Dr. Siiarpey , V.P.R.S. Received January 22 , 1874 .
If the subcutaneous connective tissue of the new-born rat* is examined under the microscope in an indifferent fluid , it is found to consist chiefly of an almost homogeneous hyaline ground-substance , which is traversed by a few wavy fibres , and has a considerable number of exceed-ingly delicate , more or less flattened cells scattered throughout the tissue .
The cells here spoken of are of course the connective-tissue corpuscles .
They are not much branched as a rule ( at any rate their branches do not extend far from the body of the corpuscle ) , and they are mainly distinguished by the extraordinary amount of vacuolation which they exhibit\#151 ; by which is meant the formation within the protoplasm of minute clear spherules , less refractive than that substance , and probably , therefore , spaces in it containing a watery fluid .
The nuclei , of which there is generally not more than one in each cell , are frequently obscured by the vacuoles , but , when visible , are seen to be round or oval in shape and * The animal employed was the white rat .
VOL. XXII .
u

