398 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ Nov. 27r cordingly stop to point out in a general manner the course of the single theory ; and in connexion with it , but more briefly , that of the double theory ; and I then , in the second and third parts respectively , consider in detail the two theories separately ; first , that of the single functions , and then that of the double functions .
The paragraphs of the memoir are numbered consecutively .
The definition adopted for the theta-functions differs somewhat from that which is ordinarily used .
V. " On the Spectra of Sodium and Potassium .
" By Gr .
D " Liveing , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received November 20 , 1879 .
In the course of our observations on the reversal of the spectra of metals , we have many times had occasion to observe the spectra of sodium and potassium , and have noticed that they have been imperfectly described .
M. Lecoq de Boisbaudran describes them more completely than anyone else ; but as seen in the electric arc in one of the-crucibles described by us in connexion with the reversals , there are in each spectrum several additional lines , which make the whole far more ' regular and symmetrical than they appear in his account .
These additional lines are seen in the arc given by a battery of 25 Grove 's cells as well as in that given by a dynamo-electric machine .
They show best in a long arc , and as the vapours conduct well it is easy to draw out the are of 25 cells to the length of an inch or more .
We have generally used carbonates of the metals , sometimes chlorides .
In the case of sodium we have already noticed ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxviii , p. 473 ) that the pair of lines next more refrangible than D ' ( which we may for convenience call the third group ) are accompanied by a fainter pair on their more refrangible side .
Lecoq de Boisbaudran notices one only of these faint lines .
By micrometer measurements of their distances from their brighter companions , we have deduced the wave-lengths 5673*6 , 5668*6 , for this pair .
A line closely corresponding to the latter of these lines is to be found in Kirckhoff 's map of the Solar Spectrum ( 1165*2 ) .
The next pair of lines , or fourth group ( 5155 , 5152 ) , are sharply defined , and have no other line close to them ; but the bright green pair , or fifth group ( 4983 , 4982 ) , - are diffuse lines , usually seen as -a band but noted by Lockyer to be a double line , and have a third line on their more refrangible side , of which we find the wavelength to be 4980*5 .
We feel sure that there ought to be a fourth line in this group , but have never been able to detect it .
It is possible that two of the four lines may overlap , and so appear as one ; Spectrum of Sodium in the arc in a lime crucible .
1879.1 On the Spectra of Sodium and Potassium .
399 400 Profs .
Liveing and Dewar .
[ Nov. 27 , but the reversal of the brighter pair of the group seems to militate against such a supposition , as the third line has not been seen reversed .
It is , however , much fainter than the other two .
The sixth group consists of a pair of lines sharply defined , for which we have found , by measurements of their distances from some bright manganese lines in their neighbourhood , the wave-lengths 4751'4 , 4747*5 .
The first only of this pair is described by Lecoq de Bois-baudran .
We have not seen either of them reversed , but there are lines in the solar spectrum which correspond closely to them and may therefore reasonably be attributed to sodium .
The seventh group is a pair of lines with diffuse edges , which we have seen reversed as .
fine dark lines in the middle of the diffuse blue bands .
For these we deduced the wave-lengths 4667*2 , 4663*7 .
The first only is described by Lecoq de Boisbaudran , and he assigns to it the wave-length 4670 .
By putting some titanic oxide into the crucible the titanium line 4666*5 was seen between the sodium lines , and we have no doubt that it is sodium which gives the winged appearance to the corresponding ray in the solar spectrum .
The ray 4663*5 in the " normal solar spectrum " is probably the other ray of this pair , as the difference between the wave-length of this and that found by us is within the limits of error in our measurements of such diffuse lines .
The eighth group is a more sharply defined pair , for which by measurement of their distances from neighbouring barium lines we deduced the wave-lengths 4543*6 , 4540*7 .
The lines 4543*9 , 4540*2 in the " normal solar spectrum " probably represent this pair .
The ninth group is again a diffuse pair for which we deduced , by measurements from two bright manganese lines near them , the wavelengths 4496*4 , 4494*5 .
These are too diffuse for very exact measurement , but a bright line , which we could not certainly recognise as the manganese line 4495 , appears nearly coincident with the more refrangible of them .
Lines nearly corresponding to these are in the solar spectrum .
The tenth group is again a more sharply defined pair , for which , by measurements from calcium and iron lines , we found the wave-lengths 4423,4419*5. .
The lines 2656*7 , 2664*9 of Kirchhoff 's map of the solar spectrum may represent this pair .
The eleventh group is a very diffuse pair , sometimes seen as a continuous band dividing as the sodium evaporates , for which we found the wave-lengths about 4393 , 4390 .
There is a line corresponding to the former in the " normal solar spectrum , " and Kirchhoff 's line 2709*6 may represent the latter .
The twelfth group is a diffuse but narrow band , which we have not seen divided .
The middle of it has a wave-length about 4343 , very nearly coincident with a line which we took to be an iron line , and rather more refrangible than a chromium line 4344*5 .
1879 .
] On the Spectra of Sodium and Potassium .
401 The thirteenth group is a diffuse broad band nearly bisected by the iron line 4325 .
The successive groups become fainter and more diffuse as they are more refrangible , at the same time the distance between successive groups diminishes .
Their positions are shown on the accompanying diagram to a scale of wave-lengths .
It is worthy of note that every alternate group is much more sharply defined than the others .
Moreover , it is only the diffuse groups ( 3 ) ( 5 ) ( 7 ) which show reversal -except the first group , in the orange , which , however , is more difficult .of reversal than the others .
The whole series , exclusive of D , looks very like repetitions of the same set of vibrations in a harmonic progression ; the first ( visible ) term consisting of the six vibrations represented by the orange pair ( 6160 , 6154 ) and the four lines of group ( 3 ) ; the next term of the five lines of the fourth and fifth groups , one of the six vibrations being now too faint to be seen ; the next three terms , of each of which only four lines are visible , consisting of the sixth and seventh , and eighth and ninth , and the tenth and .eleventh groups , and the last term of the two faint bands of the twelfth and thirteenth groups .
Simple harmonic relations can be found to subsist between some of the groups ; for instance , the wave-lengths of the fifth , seventh , and .eleventh groups are very nearly as -^g- : : TXT , but the whole series cannot be represented as simple harmonics of one set of six vibrations with any probability .
The smallest numbers , which are nearly proportional to the reciprocals of the wave-lengths of groups ( 1 ) , ( 4 ) , ( 6 ) , ( 8 ) , ( 10 ) , ( 12 ) are 81 , 97 , 105 , 110 , 113 , 115 ; and these numbers are only approximately in the same ratios as the reciprocals of wavelengths .
The potassium spectrum as seen in the arc , leaving out of account the two pairs of lines in the red and that in the violet , consists of a .series of groups of four lines each , Succeeding one another at shorter intervals and becoming fainter as they are more refrangible .
They all are more or less diffuse , markedly more so on their less refrangible .edges .
They are shown on the accompanying diagram to a scale of t wave-lengths .
Lecoq de Boisbaudran gives a more complete list of potassium lines than other observers , but while the spark which he used brought out several lines which are not seen in the arc , the higher I terms of the rhythmical series brought out very distinctly by the arc I are not so well seen in the spark .
The first and least refrangible group of this series consists of the i four lines to which Lecoq de Boisbaudran assigns the wave-lengths I 5831 , 5812 , 5801 , 5783 .
The second of these lines ( 5812 ) is much less strong than the others as seen in the spark .
In the arc they are [ all nearly equal in brightness , but we have not seen the second line I reversed .
402 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ Nov. 27 , Between the first and second group Lecoq de Boisbaudran gives a line which was not noticed by us in the arc .
In the second group the two middle lines are very close , and Lecoq de Boisbaudran gives only their mean wave-length .
Measuring the distances of the middle from the extreme lines of the group , the wavelengths of this quartet are 5355 , 5338 , 5334*5 , 5319 .
These are all about of equal brightness , but we have not seen the third ( 5334*5 ) reversed .
The third group consists of the lines 5112 , 5098 , 5095 , 5081 .
Of these the second is not given by Lecoq de Boisbaudran , and only the first has been seen by us reversed .
Three lines given by Lecoq de Boisbaudran between the third and fourth groups are not seen in the arc , or at least are not nearly so conspicuous as the groups here described .
The fourth group consists of lines for which we find the wavelengths about 4964 , 4956,4950 , 4942 .
Of these the first and last only are given by Lecoq de Boisbaudran as 4963 and 4936 .
The fifth group has lines of which we find the wave-lengths about 4870 , 4863 , 4856 , 4850 .
The sixth group has lines of about the wave-lengths 4808 , 4803 , 4796 , 4788 .
The seventh group is too faint and diffuse to be distinctly resolved .
The wave-length of the least refrangible edge is about 4759 .
None of these last three groups are seen by Lecoq de Boisbaudran , and they are too diffuse for exact measurement ; on the other hand , he gives several other lines which are not noticed by us in the arc .
As in the case of sodium the repetition of these quartets of lines at decreasing intervals with decreasing brightness and sharpness as they proceed from the less to the more refrangible , gives the impression of a series of harmonics ; but the wave-lengths do not seem to be in a simple harmonic progression , though simple harmonic relations may be found between some of the groups .
VI .
" On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
" No. VII .
By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.iS .
, Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received November 18 , 1879 .
The experiments of which the results are here given were all made in the Chemical Laboratory of the Royal Institution , with the powerful electric current from the Siemens dynamo-electric machine .
Limestone crucibles similar to those before employed were in all cases used , but the opening through which the arc was observed was in general placed

