]\gt ; .
On the -inductance of Circular Coils T. R. LYLE , M.A. , Sc. D. , F.R. Received February 27 , \mdash ; Read hIarch 13 , 1913 .
As an approximate formula for the calculation of the self-inductance of a coil of rectangular section , was first give1l by MAXWELL , *where is the llea radius and the geometric mean distance of the section of the coil itself , the current being supposed be uniformly distributed over the section .
In the following paper it will be shown that the same mula will give the selfinductance to any order of accuracy when in it are substituted for and ?
the mean radius and the G.M.D. respectively , each suitably modified by small quantities which depend on and on the section of the coil , provided , of course , that the series for is convergent .
Tables will be given by means of which the modified values of and ?
for any coil of rectangular section can be found , and which , when substituted in the above formula , will give correct to the fourth order , uniform current density over the section assumed .
1 .
For the purpose of this paper the mutual inductance of two coaxal circles can best be obtained after by substituting exact elliptic integral the series expressions for and in terms of the collplementary modulus Thus we obtain is rapidly convergent when , the ratio of the least to greatest between the circles , is small .
Elect. and Mag vol. II .
, S706 .
'WIED .
Ann 21 , 1 ) .
344 , ISS4 .
Mag vol. II .
, 8 ( 505 .
) 31 , Let these two circles be filaments A and in the rectangular conductor whose section is PQRS , fig. 1 .
Then , if and ?
the co-ordinates of relative to axes through A parallel to the sides of ectaItgle , on substitution the , above we obtain , as ROSA and COHEN* have done , say , where is the radius of the circle A and '/ Fig. 1 .
If the co-ordinates of the A circle , referred to axes through the centre of the rectangle , be X and , then in the above expression for becomes where now and in what follows is the mean radius of the coil .
This substitution is most easily carried out by aid of Theorem .
Thus the complete xpression for is given by * ' Bull .
Bureau 8tandards , ' vol. 2 , p. 364 , 1906 .
CIRCULAR COILS OF RECTANGTJLAR CTION .
42.3 2 .
It is well knownl that the self-inductance of a single circular conductor with rectangular section for uniform current density is giyen by and for a coil of turns is times this if MAXWELL'S correction*for space between the wires be neglected , the breadth and the radial depth of the rectangle .
The evaluation of this definite integral , even for the second order terms , has esented considerable difficulties .
The first correct result to this order was that given b.y So far as I am aware no one has published a determination of it to the fourth order .
By a method indicated in the appendix to this paper the integration can be carried out to the fourth orde ] ithout difficulty and to still higher orders if desired .
the following expression for has been obtained in which mean radius , breadth , depth , of the rectangle , and 3 .
If .
be the G.M.D. of the rectangle from itself , it is well known where 'Elect .
and Mag vol. II .
, S693 .
ROSA ( see 'Bull .
Bureau Standards , ' vol. 3 , p. 37 , 1907 ) has greatly improved on MAXWELL'S correction .
'WIBD .
Ann 21 , p. 329 , 1884 .
for in terms of .
and in the above expression for we obtain where 4 .
If , , can be determined so that shall difler very little from the for given in S3 .
After substituting for A and in the above and expanding in a series in , the first three terms of the expansion are identified with the corresponding terms of in the usual way , and in addition , the coefficient of the fourth term of the expansion , that is the coefficient of , is equated to zero .
The term in enables this to be done , with the result that a closer agreement is obtained between the proposed formula and that in Thus , Hence , when A and have been so determined the formula , will give the self-inductance of the coil correct to the fourth order .
RCULAR COILS OF RECTANGULAR SECTION .
It will be seen that in the application of this formula the coefficient need rarely be used .
It becomes important , however , when the mean radius is less than the diagonal of the section and especially in this case when the section is square or nearly so .
It is obvious that in a similar way to the above , series for A and could be obtained which , when substituted in the proposed formula would make it practically equivalent to , no matter to what order the integration , if performed , had been carried out .
5 .
In order to render convenient the practical application of the above formula to the determination of self-inductances the following have been prepared .
TABLE I. 0 .
Table I. contains ( 1 ) values of , that is of , for different values of the ratio or values of the ratio for different values of .
It will be noticed how nearly .
the G.M.D. of a rectangle from itself is proportional to the of the All the tables given in this paper have been calculated with the greatest care the aid of a ' ' millionaire\ldquo ; calculating machine .
Each separate series of 1lumbers , not only the fillal series but every intermediate series that had to be determined , was calculated at least twice , the end terms and o1le or two intermediate terms of each series were carefully -checked , and each series then exmined by taking successive differences .
VOL. CCXIII.\mdash ; A. DR. T. R. LYLE ON THE SELF-INDUCTANCE OF sides .
These figures will enable the G.M.D. for values of or , intermediate to those given in the table , and consequently the first or important term of for such intermediate values to be obtained with great accuracy .
Table II .
contains the values of the coefficients , for thick coils , that is for ones in which is greater than for different values of the ratio , and Table III .
contains the values of the same coefficients for thin coils , that is for ones in which 7 ) is less tha11 for different values of the ratio TABLE II .
It will have been lloticed that the coefficient and are algebraic and can be easily calculated for any value of .
Those in the tables are given for convenience .
6 .
If the formula for given in S2 be written in the form tables giving , and , for different values of would also render easy the computation of the.self inductances of coils .
Such tables hay been computed from WEINSTEIN'S formula by STEFAN , he is in error in thinking that the second order coefficient has the same value for a given value of in a thin coil as it has for the WIED .
AIm 22 , p. 113 , 1884 .
CIRCULAR COILS OF RECTANGULAR SECTION .
same value of in a thick coil .
Ths second order coefticients he correct ' thick coils .
In using the above formula with tables for the computation of for of or intermediate to those given in the tables , the value of which is part of the or first order term will have to be obtained by interpolation , whereas in the TABLE III . .
67990 method previously given , the whole of the first order term can be easily got with great accuracy , by making use of the nearly constant ratio of .
to indicated by the figures given in the third column of Table I. The coefficients , occurred in the computation of Tables I. , II .
, and and are the same as in these tables , and are in any case algebraic as Table .
gives the values of , and for different values of the ratio ) for thick coils , and of .
for thin coils .
TABLE IV .
both tandr .
7 .
The only available means of testing the above methods of computing selfinductances and of finding the limit outside which they are practically reliable is to compare the results they give with those given by exact elliptic integral formula for the self-inductance of a current sheet solenoid , which is where is the radius , the length of the solenoid , and Thus consider the case of a solenoid whose length is twice its radius .
Here * WIED .
Ann 7 , p. 161 , CIRCULAR COILS OF RECTANGULAR SECTION .
and from Table II .
so ( where ( l ) is given in Table I. ) and exact formula gives Thus the error in this case is 1 part in 650 .
When the comparison is made in less extreme cases we find the agreement with the Lorenz formula very close .
Thus when the length of the solenoid is equal to its radius either of the methods of this paper give while LORENZ'S formula gives showing an error of 1 part in 20,000 , and when the length of the solenoid is half the radius we obtain as against the Lorenz value showing an error of only about 1 part in 1,000,000 .
4.30 DR. T. R. LYLE ON THE SELF-INDUCTANCE OF NDIX I. In order to determine to the fourth order we have seen that it is necessary to evaluate the definite integral where , and being functions of and If we proceed in the ordinary way by putting in the limits after each integration the expression becomes very cumbrous on account of the nature of some of the functions and with which we have to deal .
By the method to be explained below all the integration will be carried out first the limits introduced in an easy and symmetrical way at the finish .
1 .
Dealing first with , the term independent of , if , the result , with limits introduced , of the integrations with respect to and will bo , where We have now to evaluate four definite integrals of which the first is Changing the variables to and and the limits accordingly , this integral is equal to , where ( ) Dealing in the same way with the three remaining integrals , and CIRCULAR COILS OF RECTANGULAR SECTION .
we find that they become and respectively , which are equal to , and respectively , where has the same meaning as before .
Hence , if ( ) is equal to .
This expression , obtained from the function ( xy ) by substituting in it in the way indicated , will , in what follows , be designated by 2 .
As an illustration of the above I will indicate the process as applied to the simplest term in .
Thus to obtain we find by simple integrations that By inspection it is seen that , Hence the definite integral above is equal to The above is the well-known definite integral used for determining the G.M.D. of a rectangle from itself 3 .
To determine between the given limits .
If the result of the integrations with respect to and will now be where have the same significations as before .
We have now to evaluate four integrals of the type Proceeding as in S1 , these , affected by their proper signs , become so that , if in this case and , between the given limits is equal to where has the sigIlification given to it in S1 .
CIRCULAR COILS OF RECTANGULAR SECTION .
4 .
In a similar way it can be shown that between the given limits is equal to where , in this case , and that between the given limits is equal to where , in this case , ( ) The result of integration can now be easily written out for integrations involving higher powers of 5 .
Before proceeding with the integrations it is advisable to have prepared beforehand a table giving and from to If this be done , and the method indicated above followed , the work presents little difficulty and is not very tedious .
VOL. CCXIII.\mdash ; A. 3 APPENDIX II .
Since the above I have determined the sixth order term of the series for L. In order to do this it was necessary to extend to the sixth order MAXWELL'S series formula ( see S1 ) for , the mutual inductance of two unequal coaxal circles which ROSA and COHEN* had already extended to the fifth order .
Thus .35 When in we substitute , as explained in S1 , for , the term of the sixth order in the variables , and becomes equal to , where in which ] ' Bull .
Bureau Standards , ' 2 , p. 364 , 1906 .
CIRCULAR COILS OF RECTANGULAR SECTION .
The term of the sixth order in the series for is the value of the between the specified limits , and I have found it to be equal to , in which , q ) , , and have the significations assigned to them in S2 .
The method of integration indicated in this paper renders the determination of in series form comparatively easy for the special cases of a solenoid , and a flat circular ring coil , uniform current density being assumed .
Thus COFFIN'S formula*for a solenoid can be easily obtained , and and NIVEN'S formula for a coil whose axial dimension ( b ) is zero can be extended to the sixth order , giving which can also be obtained by putting in the general formula obtained above for , and remembering that when , and ' Bull .
Bureau , p. 113 , 1906 .
RAYLEIGH , 'Collected pers , , p. 15 .

