" On the structure of the Jaws and Teeth of the Iguanodon .
" By Gideon Algernon Mantell , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Vice-President of the Geological Society , &amp;c. The recent discovery of the right dentary bone of the lower jaw of an adult Iguanodon with teeth , having enabled the author , with the aid afforded by other specimens , to determine the structure of the maxillary organs of that gigantic herbivorous reptile , the result of his investigations are embodied in the present communication .
The first memoir of the author on the teeth of the Iguanodon was published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1825 ; but owing to the fragmentary and water-worn condition in which the fossil remains of terrestrial vertebrated animals occur in fluviatile deposits , in consequence of these strata consisting of materials transported from far-distant lands , nearly a quarter of a century elapsed before any portion of the jaw with teeth was discovered .
The most important of the fossils described in this memoir consists of the anterior part of the right side of the lower jaw , which was discovered a few weeks since , in a quarry in Tilgate Forest , by Capt. Lambart Brickenden , F.G.S. , who with great liberality placed it at the disposal of the author as the original investigator of the fossils of the Wealden .
This dentary bone , which is eighteen inches long , is perfect in the anterior part , but is broken at the hinder extremity , and retains five or six inches of the coronoid bone : the length of the jaw to which it belonged is estimated at four feet .
It contains two successional teeth in place , the fang of a third , and the alveoli or sockets for eighteen or nineteen mature molars ; the entire number of teeth on each side the lower jaw was about twenty .
The mature teeth , which , when abraded by use in mastication , resemble the worn molars of herbivorous mammalia , appear to have been arranged in a close-set series .
The lower teeth had their enamelled striated face parallel with the alveolar plate , and fronting the inside of the mouth ; but the upper were placed in a reverse position , that is , with the enamelled facet of the crown external ; and the teeth in the upper and lower jaws were arranged subalternate or intermediate in relation to each other , as is the case in the ruminants .
But a still more remarkable character presented by this specimen is the peculiar construction of the anterior part of the lower jaw , which forms the synmphysis .
This process , instead of being continued round the front of the mouth and beset with teeth , as in all other saurians , is edentulous , and extends into a procumbent scooplike expansion , very analogous to the symphysial portion of the lower jaw in the Sloths , and especially to that of the colossal extinct Edentata the Mylodons .
Along the external surface of this dentary bone there is a row of very large vascular foramina ; and the symphysis also is perforated with numerous openings for the passage of blood-vessels and nerves sent off from the great dental canal .
The unusual number and magnitude of these foramina indicate a great development of the integuments and soft parts with which the bone was inevsted , and also the large size of the under lip .
The upper jaw , of which a considerable portion discovered by the author is in the British Museum , confirms the inferences deduced from the teeth and dentary bone of the lower maxilla .
The author , with the able assistance of Dr. A.G. Melville , instituted a comparison between all the teeth of the Iguanodon to which he could obtain access , and those of recent saurians ; and the result of the investigation is detailed .
The new light shed on the structure and functions of the dental organs , confirms , in every essential particular , the inferences deduced by the author from the detached teeth alone , in his memoir of 1825 ; and it also reveals an extraordinary deviation from all known types of reptilian organization , and which could not have been predicated ; namely , that this colossal reptile , which equalled in bulk the gigantic Edentata of South America , and like them was destined to obtain support from comminuted vegetable substances , was also furnished with a large prehensile tongue and fleshy lips , to serve as instruments for seizing and cropping the foliage and branches of trees ; while the arrangement of the teeth as in the ruminants , and their internal structure , which resembles that of the molars of the Sloth tribe in the vascularity of the dentine , indicate adaptations for the same purpose .
Among the physiological phenomenon revealed by Paleontology , there is not a more remarkable one than this modification of the type of organization peculiar to the class of reptiles , to meet the conditions required by the economy of a lizard placed under similar physical relations , and destined to effect the same general purpose in the scheme of nature , as the colossal Edentata of former ages , and the large herbivorous mammalia of our own times .
From the facts detailed , the author is led to consider the specimen described in his memoir of 1841 , as being probably the lower jaw of a young Iguanodon ( but the true nature of which , from the absence of the crowns of the teeth , was doubtful ) belonging to the same family , but referable to a distinct genus or subgenus ; and he proposes the name of Regnosaurus Northamptoni for that remarkable fossil saurian .
The communication was illustrated by several drawings of the specimens described .

