Probable Value to B. coli of " Slime " Formation in Soils .
371 force .
The character of pulse curves , taken either with a Hurthle or other spring manometer , placed in direct communication with an artery , or by means of the sphygmograph , depends very largely on the " lability " of the conducting arteries .
It is arterial " lability/ 5 not reflection of waves , which modifies the form of the pulse curve taken in different arteries .
While the pressure waves produced by the heart may remain the same , the form of the sphygmogram may be altered , and what has been termed a " high " or a " low 99 pressure curve may be produced by variation in the " lability " of the conducting arteries .
The wall of an artery is supported by the surrounding tissues and skin , the whole being permeated with blood ; it will be a matter for further consideration as to how far the lability is affected by the condition of the surrounding tissues .
Comparison of figs. 8 and 9 shows how large a part the tissues normally take in supporting the arteries .
On the Probable Value to Bacillus coli of " Slime " Formation in Soils .
t By Cecil Revis .
( Communicated by Sir J. R. Bradford , K.C.M.G. , Sec. R.S. Received April 8 , \#151 ; Read April 24 , 1913 .
) During the course of an investigation into the causes of variation in the physiological activity of Bacillus coli , a number of experiments were started , in which soils , either virgin or mixed with cow dung or human excreta , were inoculated with cultures of B. coli , together with cultures of various soil organisms so different from the colon organism that they could not be mistaken for it on plating out .
The requisite quantity of soil was placed in a layer about f-inch deep in large flat litre-bottles , and the cultures were added in the form of emulsions in physiological salt solution , made from agar slopes .
Sufficient water was also added to make the soil visibly moist .
The bottles were closed with cotton-wool plugs and kept at ordinary room temperature in the dark .
Controls which were inoculated with all the organisms except the B. coli were started at the same time .
The soils were examined from time to time by withdrawing about 5 grm. by means of a sterile tube , shaking this up with 50 c.c. of sterile water , spreading plates directly on to ordinary agar and incubating at 20 ' C. It was found very difficult to isolate the B. coli in this way because of the rapid and expansive growth of the other organisms present , and because the 372 Probable Value to B. coli of " Slime " Formation in Soils .
experimental organism did not usually grow in a typical manner , but in large watery colonies , which were at first not recognised as B. coli , and were also soon involved with other growths on account of their spreading nature .
It was therefore necessary to employ the usual method of preliminary inoculation into bile-salt glucose broth , followed by plating out into ordinary ( + 1 ) , or bile-salt agar .
In this way B. coli was always readily isolated , but the tendency to form large , moist , slimy colonies was still marked , a characteristic to which I have directed attention before .
The results were not of any great interest from the point of view of variation .
From time to time , during the first 18 months of the investigation , apparently typical coli were isolated which refused to grow in peptone water or to attack any of the test substances .
In many cases , the original culture from the plate failed to attack dulcitol and sometimes mannitol , but these failures were not of a permanent character .
Towards the end of the experiment quite typical organisms only were obtained .
The necessary use of bile-salt broth possibly is adverse to the separation of atypical organisms in the presence of a preponderance of typical forms .
There was not apparently during the whole course of the experiment ( which lasted three years ) any marked diminution of the original B. coli , as it could be recovered in all cases from at least 0*00001 grm. of the soil .
The remarkable point of the investigation lies , however , in the fact that throughout the course of the experiment no further addition of water was made to the flasks .
The control flasks , which did not contain B. coli ( though all the other soil organisms were present ) , dried up within a few months of the start .
In all the flasks which contained B. coli not only did the flasks retain their moisture for three years , but during the first 12 months of the experiment had evidently taken up large quantities of moisture from the atmosphere , and in one or two instances the soil became completely water-logged .
It seems evident that this extraordinary behaviour is connected with the B. coli , and in view of the fact , which I have constantly noticed , that this organism can easily produce " slime " ( without the presence of sugar ) , and that when grown in this manner in soil it certainly does so , it seems reasonable to attribute the water-absorption of the soil to this curious property .
These results possibly give at the same time some explanation of the well-known power of many organisms which occur in soil , especially the " nodule " bacteria , to form " slime .
" The viability of B. coli for such a long period is also remarkable , but cannot , of course , be taken as true for ordinary soils , as there are bactericidal influences at work in such , which have been destroyed by the initial sterilisation necessary in these experiments .

