120 J)r .
J. A. Ewing and Mr. L. H. Walter .
[ Jan. 11 , " A New Method of Detecting Electrical Oscillations .
" By J. A. 1 Ewing , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and L. El .
Walter , M.A. Received January 11 , \#151 ; Read February 11 , 1904 .
The magnetic detector of Rutherford , * though now well known , .appears to have created little interest until attention was directed to the subject by Marconi 's adaptation of the method to his telephonic detector .
Marconi 's apparatus employs the change of hysteresis , jj which is produced in iron by the influence of electric oscillations , when these are caused to pass through a coil surrounding the iron , the j change being made manifest by means of a telephone .
In his view , the electric oscillations act by reducing the hysteresis . !
It occurred to us to exhibit the alteration in hysteresis by a different method , namely , by applying the principle which is used in an instrument invented some years ago by one of us for the mechanical measurement of hysteresis .
In that instrument !
the hysteresis is measured by the mechanical couple between a magnetic field and the iron , when either the iron or the magnet providing the field is caused to revolve .
Thus , if the field revolves , the iron tends to be dragged after it , as a consequence of hysteresis in the reversals of its magnetism , and if the motion is prevented by a spring or other control , it assumes a deflected position .
Suppose , now , the electric oscillations to act on it , any change of the hysteresis caused by them will be exhibited by a corresponding change in the deflection .
We anticipated , in accordance with the generally accepted view that hysteresis is reduced by the oscillations , that their presence would be detected by a fall in the deflection .
With this expectation an experimental apparatus was arranged , .consisting of an electro-magnet , capable of being rotated on a vertical axis by an electric motor .
The magnet poles were bored out circular , and between them was suspended , by a phosphor-bronze strip , a ring made up of three thin , flat annuli of soft iron , clamped together , and provided at the foot with an axial pivot .
The ring was free to turn inside of two bobbins wound with fine copper wire , the windings being at right angles to the plane of the ring .
Through these copper windings , electrical oscillations , produced in the usual manner by means of a distinct spark-gap , were passed .
The first experiments resulted in a very small deflection from the ; position due to normal hysteresis , indicating , as was expected , a decrease of hysteresis when the oscillations arrived .
The apparatus * \#163 ; Phil. Trans. , A , vol. 189 , p. 1 , 1897 .
f 1 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 70 , pp. 341\#151 ; 344 , 1902 .
X ' Journ. Inst. Electr .
Engineers , ' vol. 24 , pp. 398\#151 ; 430 , 1895 .
1904.1 A New Method of Detecting Electrical Oscillations .
121 was also tested with an alternating current of about 100 periods per second in place of the oscillations , with the effect that the normal hysteresis deflection was almost entirely wiped out .
' Various other forms were also tried with indifferent results , when it Occurred to us that there would be advantages in passing the oscillations through the magnetic material itself , making it of magnetic wire .
A small bobbin was therefore wound with insulated soft iron jwire , and the ends soldered to the upper and lower halves of the .spindle , which was itself divided at the centre , the upper half bearing the controlling spring , and the lower dipping into mercury , from which a connection led to the other terminal .
On passing oscillations ^through this winding , a remarkable and unexpected result was ^obtained .
The change of deflection was much more marked than in the former experiments , and was in the opposite sense , indicating an 'increase of hysteresis while oscillations were present .
Afterwards , hard steel wire was substituted foi\gt ; the soft iron , and a very great increase in the effect was observed , still in the same direction\#151 ; that of ; increase of hysteresis .
Owing to these encouraging results , it was decided to continue the experiments in this direction , abandoning the older form , in which a decrease of hysteresis was dealt with .
The first bobbin constructed was about T5^- inch in external diameter , and had a vertical wire space of | inch .
The winding was a single No. 32-gauge iron wire , double : cotton-covered , wound straight round from beginning to end .
Later , No. 40 and No. 46 steel wires were employed , of which the latter gave the best results .
It was soon noticed that any method of increasing the oscillatory current in the wires , as by winding the bobbin with two wires having a slightly unequal number of turns , was of advantage in giving a larger deflection .
Later a fine copper wire secondary , wound on the bobbin parallel to the magnetic wire , was tried , first with the j ends insulated , and then with the ends soldered together .
A marked increase in deflection was observed when the secondary was closed , ' showing that the magnetic nature of the wire itself was influential .
| Accordingly , a bobbin was then wound with insulated steel wire , | doubled back on itself .
This non-inductive winding gave by far the I best results hitherto attained , and is now used , except when special .
results are required .
The instrument , though described as a detector of electrical oscilla-f tions , may be said to measure rather than detect , giving quantitative as !
well as qualitative results , and being capable of regulation from a s sensibility of the same order as that of an average coherer down I to practical insensibility to powerful sparks in the same room .
In the instrument , as shown in the figure , the electro-magnet takes I the form of a ring capable of moving round a vertical axis , and is K 2 122 Dr. J. A. Ewing and Mr. L. H. Walter .
[ Jan. 11/ provided on the interior with two long wedge-shaped pole-pieces , M , M , the current to the winding being supplied through brushes \\\\\\\\\\^6\\\\\x1 E bearing against insulated rings below .
The magnet is made to revolve by an electro-motor , the best speed being about five to eight revolutions per second , but the electro-magnet may be replaced by a 1904 ] ^4 New Method of Detecting Electrical Oscillations .
123 permanent magnet system giving a similar field .
A structure is built up , external to the magnet , to support the vessel containing the pivoted bobbin and its centreing arrangements .
The bobbin itself is made of bone , and is about 2 inches long .
It is provided with a steel spindle at each end bearing in a jewel hole , the two halves of the spindle being insulated from one another .
The winding , which is , as far as possible , non-inductive , consists of about 500 turns of No. 46-gauge hard-drawn steel wire , insulated with silk .
The bobbin is immersed in petroleum , or a mixture of petroleum with thicker mineral oil , which serves the double purpose of fortifying the insulation , and giving the damping effect necessary to steady the deflection due to the drag of the revolving magnet .
Readings are taken by means of a spot of light , as with speaking mirror galvanometers , but a siphon-recording attachment has been fitted , and any form of contact for working a relay could be employed .
The detector , as before mentioned , gives quantitative readings , and , in some cases , the deflection may be too large to be easily read by the scale .
For this purpose a variable shunt is provided , by which the deflection can be regulated .
For the purpose of wireless telegraphy , the instrument has the advantage of giving metrical effects .
The benefit of this in facilitating tuning , and in other respects , need not be insisted upon .
From the physical point of view , the augmentation of hysteresis is interesting and unlooked for .
It is probably to be ascribed to this , that the oscillatory circular magnetisation facilitates the longitudinal magnetising process , enabling the steel to take up a much larger magnetisation at each reversal than it would otherwise take , and thus indirectly augmenting the hysteresis to such an extent that the direct influence of the oscillations in reducing it is overpowered .
The net result appears to be dependent on two antagonistic influences , and , in fine steel wire , under the conditions of our experiments , the influence making for increased hysteresis , as a result of the increased range of magnetic induction , is much the more powerful .

