]\gt ; On the Polymorphic Changes of Ammonium Nitrate .
By U. BEHN , Harling Fellow of the University of Manchester .
( Communicated by Arthur Schuster , F.R.S. Received and read June 27 , 1907 , \mdash ; Received in revised form January 29 , 1908 .
) As has been shown by the extensive investigation of Tammann , polymorphic changes occur far more frequently than is supposed .
Among substances which exhibit these phenomena , ammonium nitrate serves as a specially interesting example .
Not only does this compound undergo four distinct transformations within a range of , but the remarkable nature of the changes possesses a special interest .
The various modifications of ammonium nitrate hay been studied repeatedly .
The crystallography by Frankenheim ( 1854 ) , O. Lehmann , * Wyrouboff , t and Wallerant , general physical properties by Bellati and Romanese , S S. Lussana , and recently by Tammann(1902 ) .
The melting point of the salt is about At this temperature it solidifies in crystals of the cubic system ( modification I ) .
At the first transformation takes place , the substance becoming doubly refractive and the crystals being now tetragonal .
This modification ( II ) is stable down to , at which temperature a second change occurs , optically biaxial crystals of the monosymmetric system being formed .
These crystals have an almost tetragonal appearance , " " monocliniques quasi-quadratiques\ldquo ; ( Wallerant ) .
A further transformation occurs at , orthorhombic quasi-quadratiques crystals being formed .
This modification ( IV ) is stable at ordinary temperatures , and is consequently the best known .
The parameters are : A fourth transformation occurring at was first observed by Lehmann .
The modification ( y ) produced at this temperature is 'Molekularphysik .
' Probably ' Bull .
Soc. .
de France .
' 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 142 , 1906 .
S 'Atti del Istit .
Veneto ' ( 6 ) , vol. 4 , 1886 .
'Annalen der Physik , ' vol. 7 , p. 223 , 1902 . .
Schiff and U. Monsacchi , ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem vol. 21 , p. 2 , 1896 ; 168according to Bellati and Romanese ; according to O. Lehmann , 'Ann .
der Physik , ' p. 181 , 1906 .
According to a private communication from Lehmann , his first assertion that the point of transition was was founded on a mistake , the observations proving the temperature to be On Polymorphic Changes of Ammomum Nitrate .
tetragonal , and has a double refractive ( ) power a little weaker than that of the modification II .
The general similarities of the two modifications , induced Wallerant to suggest that they were identical .
* The reasons ) Jiven for this supposition will be discussed in the raphic section of the paper , but it must be remarked tlJat Wallerant seems scalcely to have realised that such a fact as this , if it could be proved , would be quite umique and possess reat importance .
The phenomenon of the miscibility of nicotine and water within two of temperature , which he quotes as an logy , is certainly quite a differeIlt case , for here one single physical property is the same , with these it is a question } hither the same form with all physical properties identical can within two separate of temperature .
In the following tion an attempt has been made to attack this problem from several directions .
First , the volumes of the modifications were studied and compaled : then the therlllal properties were and finally the raphic side of the question was exanlined .
The salt employed the purest that could be obtained ( Kahlbaum , Berlin ) .
Ten grammes slowly beated in a crucible left per cent. residue .
As the salt is roscopic , special care was taken to obtain it in a dry condition .
Since , upon , ammonium decomposes even below its melting point , the ation was effected at ordinary temperatures by exposure over phosphorus pentoxide iu desiccators .
In this manner it was possible to obtain the salt certainly less than per cent. of water .
I am much indebted to Dr. G. H. Bailey for helpful suggestions on this point .
Absolute freedom from moisture can , , not be secured .
Upon opening a desiccator which had been for a days , a smell of oxides of nitrogen was observed , the deco1nposition more rapidly at higher temperatures .
If , for instance , the salt be placed in a bent tube which evacuated , be heated to , whilst the other is cooled to water is continuously collected , yet the salt ; becomes no drier .
At 13 the decomposition is still more rapid , } ) ecially if turpentine is present , and it is remarkable that decomposition is accompanied by a decrease in volume .
After a dilatomete ] had been maintained for three hours at temperatures between and , the " " Il n'y aurait rien de surprenant dans l'existence deux modifications ) au meme syst et parallele1nent . . . .
Mais bien plus il en reality modification stable dans deux intervalles de ture.\ldquo ; temperatures of solid carbonic acid and liquid air are given rhout in round numbers .
mJif suo euaf , , Aq ( XBS ) ueJJB S ' .
aqnt ST1IiL asuoo S aq9 @urdvos punoJxns s dmoo ? .
amos $T asodxnd sTqt pua uaql AlOJJBu uBnb p.aq 30 pasn BIIJ pom pasn IIiL aq uio ou aIqIssod s S1 @uxnp pas aq samt sqns p s@up ; J ou uo saxn { Jadmat 4 uodn ?
S. On Changes of Nitrate .
glass and calibrated at the vsikaliscI Both thermometers were completely im Since the had a to completely immerse them , and their had consequently to be corrected for that portion of the capillary which was exposed .
Preparatory to the experiments with the salt , the behaviour of the turpentin was carefully examined .
Its specific gravity was at , which was identical with that of another specimen obtained from lIerck , of rmstadt ; the boiling point was ; it became viscous at and froze , as an apparently crystalline substance , with contraction , at a lower temperature .
The turpentine was practically free from water , as was pl. Oyed by the following experiment : \mdash ; Two hundred grammes of the liquid were put into a calorimeter , together with a thin glass bulb containing several ' rammes of ammonium nitrate , and a second bulb gramme of water .
The tellperature of the apparatus was allowed to ) ecolne co the bulb containing the salt no chang , but after the second ture fell within one minute to seems to indicate that the turpentine of water .
The dilatation , measured in the appa almost linear curve , the apparent expan ture .
From this curve the following deduced , the volume at and hence Mr. U. Behn .
[ Jan. 29 , Thus the real coefficient of expansion at The values found by Kopp ( 1855 ) and by Bellati and Romanese for a smaller range of temperature agree reasonably , their values at being and respectively .
The in volume of ammonium nitrate were determined by Bellati and Romanese in two cases , at per cent. , and at per cent. It seemed of interest to make this determination for all four polymorphic .
The following results were obtained , the volumes being compared with the volume of the salt at per cent. per cent. ' The individual observations differ , except in the change at-18o , less than from one aJlother .
As can be seen , the changes in volume are considerable in magnitude , alternately an increase and a decrease being noted .
The specific gravity at was found to be egarding the last value in the table , some uncertainty was caused by the fact that after the fourth transformation the meniscus would slowly rise for hours , although the temperature of the dilatometer was kept constant .
After proving that this change was not due to any secular change in the glass , nor to any semi-permanent in the turpentine , it was shown that it can be accounted for by the slowness of the transformation .
After to about for at least 12 hours , the meniscus behaved quite regularly ; but on returning , after ooling , to the standard temperature the new position of the meniscus was always sensibly ( up to per cent. ) higher than before .
The correct explanation of this anolllalous behaviour seems to be that part of the changed salt will remain in this modification , even if heated to fact which was at first considered improbable , but which is corroborated by the behaviour of the salt low temperatures .
raphic section .
This uncertainty is indicated in figs. 2 and The chief point at issue is the relation between the volumes of the two tetragonal modifications .
Fig. 2 shows four curves determined with different dilatometers , the readings for these being uncorrected .
Obscrvations were made at , and also at 1908 .
] On Polymorphic of Ammonium Nitrate .
and ( these not always ) , .
The tetragonal modification ceases to be stable at , but it could easily be cooled to , at which temperature the change generally took place .
If one compares this obseryation with the temperature-pressure curve of Iammann , is seen that this is the temperature at which the change between the modifications II and takes place at ordinary pressure .
In all probability the transformation starts in this way , the actual product observed is III .
FIG. 2 .
to Wallerant , modification III can be suppressed ' whilst cooling , either by a small addition of caesium nitrate or by pressure , this transformation product having a specific than either of the neighbouring modifications .
From the curves in fig. it appears that the two parts might be connected .
cit. limit of error is about 1 mm. Greater accuracy would be possible , but for the difficulty of estimating the temperature of the exposed stem of the dilatometer .
450 Mr. U. Behn .
[ Jan. 29 , by a reasonably smooth curve ; yet the curvature of the connecting link is eoreater than that of the observed parts .
From these experiments no conclusion contradicting the identity of the two modifications Ir and can be arrived at .
In fig. the dilatation of the turpentine is eliminated , and the changes of volume of the salt are thus more clearly indicated .
The temperature at which the fourth change occurs , given by other authors as , was determined by va n't Hoff 's method .
* After about half the salt had been transformed , the temperature was maintained constant at , and , and readings of the dilatometer were taken .
The slowness of the change great accuracy , but the most probable value appears to be For the calorimetric work , the method of mixtures was employed .
Measurements were made of the specific heats above and below the point of transition , , and also of the heat of transformation .
The liquid chosen for the calorimeter was again pure turpentiue .
The salt was filled into cartridges of tin foil this material , which can easily be broken open in the * Vorlesungen uber theoret . .
physik .
Chemie , ' vol. 1 , p. 18 , 1898 .
tin foil was rolled in several thicknesses , bright side outwards , on a hollow wooden cylinder ; folded at the bottom and the cartridge thus formed was blown 1908 .
] On Polymorphic Changes of Ammonium Nitrate .
calorimeter , proving satisfactory for the protection of the salt from atmospheric moisture .
A long introductory series of experiments proved quite useless , the results discordant .
The explanation was found in the dilatometric observations just described .
Once the discovery was made that it is necessary to cool the for at least twelve hours in order to complete the transformation , no lifficulties were met with .
The methods were similar to those previously The turpentine was ordered in two large consignments to ensure uniformity , and care was taken to use each portion of it only once .
For the bemperature readings a thermometer of Jena glass 59 and of small range was employed ; this instrument was twice calibrated at the Physik.-techn .
Reichsanstalt , at Charlottenl ) The specific heat of the turpentine at ordinary temperatures was found in several experiments to be : ; mean , Since it appeared to rise slightly when the material was exposed to the air , the value was employed .
1 .
The measurements of the specific heat of ammonium nitrate between and gave ; mean , .
For these experiments the salt was kept at , care being taken not to let the bemperature fall during the whole process below this point ; during the last half hour the temperature was kept constant between and 2 .
The heat absorbed when the salt was heated from to enabled the heat of transformation to be calculated .
Individual lesults gave ; mean , In these experiments the samples were first maintained for at least twelve hours at and bhen heated to , which temperature towards the latter part of the process was kept constant within 3 .
For the interval to the specific heat was determined , ; mean , For the interval between and ordinary temperature the value of off the cylinder .
Then a tin-foil disc of suitable size was dropped into cartridge , which , after weighing , was filled with salt and closed by twisting the tin foil at the upper end .
* U. Behn , ' Annalen der Physik , ' vol. 1 , p. 257 , 1900 .
E.g. , grammes salt in 3 grmmes tin foil .
pentine in calorimeter , grammes .
Rise of temperature in calorimeter , .
Rise of temperature of salt and tin foil , .
Water equivalent of calorimeter , ) .
Hence I Approximate , as measured by pentane thermometer . .
Mr. U. Behn .
[ Jan. 29 , the specific heat proved to be mean , .
Hence for the interval to the specific heat may be taken as Taking this latter value and that of 3 , the real specific heat within the range may be expressed , where and In a similar manner , taking the value of Bellati and Romanese for between and , and the value given in 1 , we can express , where and In addition , we have the values determined by Bellati and Romanese : , and ( between and ) , and the heats of transformation at , and at If it were thermodynamically possible that the two tetragonal modifications were identical , we should have , as pointed out previously , the nprecedented instance of a definite substance being stable within two distinct ranges of temperature .
Then we might perform the following reversible cycle ( cf. fig. 3 ) .
Transform 1 gramme of ammonium nitrate at into the modification III , stable below this temperature ; let this cool to ; here transform to modification and cool to slightly below , and finally FIG. 3 .
heat this , after the transformation to modification , again to ( this latter part of the circuit is unstable and hence can probably only be theoretically accomplished * The last value due to a more carefully conducted experiment is given double value in the estimation .
1908 .
] On Polymorphic Changes of Ammonium Nitrate .
This series of changes produces Q2 calories at , calories at , and calories at .
The specific heats of the modifications in the order mentioned above are , and Then we have It would be wrong to suppose that the identity of II and involves the vanishing of the sums of the heats of transition .
This could only be the case if .as we should have in that case This would necessitate that each of the heats of transition should be zero , since , according to va n't Hoffs law of movable equilibrium , none of them can be negative .
Unfortunately , we can only a very rough estimate of between and that this quantity alters as a linear function of the temperature , we should find the average specific heat and to be .
But , on the other hand , supposing the modifications and II to be identical , we might employ the value determined by Bellati and Romanese between and , viz. , .
From which ( where , and thus obtain the mean value of to be between and Assuming the latter value to be correct , the above equation would lead to\mdash ; i.e. , Although slight errors in the specific heats might cause an appreciable ( change in the numerical values of the two sides of the equation , it seems hardly possible that so great a difference as could be due to el.rors of observation .
It follows from the considerations of the above numbers that if the modifications II and are identical , its average specific heat between the temperatures and would have to be ) siderably higher than at either of these two temperatures .
So far as this it tells against the identity , but it is not decisive .
454 Mr. U. Behn .
[ Jan. to the kinetic theory of Richarz*for allotropic elements , the specific heat .
will be large when the density is small , and vice WigandT has recently applied this rule to compounds , but Richarz himself has not supported this extension of his rule , and , indeed , one must use extreme caution before applying such relations to complicated cases .
The specific heats of salts , and amongst them of ammonium nitrate , recently formed the subject of a research by Forch and Nordmeyer .
The method adopted is similar to that employed for the determination of the heat of evaporation of liquid air.8 Since the value found by these investigations , for ammonium nitrate , does not at all well with that given above , it was thought advisable to repeat the determinations by this method .
After obtaining satisfactory values of the specific heat of brass , and " " Jena 59\ldquo ; glass , measurements were made with ammonium nitrate .
These experiments yielded a value , whilst a sample of the same measured in the ordinary calorimeter , immediately afterwards , gave These results are in satisfactory agreement ; it seems possible thab a fifth change may take place below \mdash ; 18o , which would account for the discrepancy .
This change would , however , probably be even slower than that at , and thus be very difficult to detect .
Lehmann could detect no such transformation , and , in the present investigation , a dilatometer slowly cooled to , whilst clearly indicating the first four changes , gave no indication of a further transformation .
For the interest of the experimental method , although unsuccessful in tlJe special application , mention may } ) made of an attempt to determine heats of transformation at-18o .
In the case of water , satisfactory measurements were obtained .
Ten grammes of water were placed in a zinc cylinder weighing 8 grammes , which was suspended at the centre of a metal box .
The latter was maintained at during the cooling period , and at during the reheating .
Readings of the temperature of the water were taken with an iron-eonstantan thermo-couple .
From the rate of or heating , the number of calories which enter the cylinder every minute can be deduced .
The curves plotted for this experiment enable the difference in 'Wied .
Annalen , ' 1893 , vol. 48 , p. 708 , and 1899 , vol. 6 p. 704 ; Sitzungsber .
Marburger Gesell July , 1904 , pp. 64\mdash ; 66 .
'Annalen der Physik , ' vol. 22 , p. 64 , 1907 .
'Annalen der Physik , ' vol. 20 , p. 423 , 1906 .
S J. Dewar , ' Boy .
Instit .
Proc vol. 14 , p. 398 , 1894 ; U. Behn , 'Annalen der Physik , ) vol. 1 , p. 270 , 1900 ; J. Dewar , ' Chemical News , ' vol. 92 , p. 181 , 1905 .
'Annalen der Physik , ' vol. 21 , p. 181 , 1906 .
1908 .
] On Polymorphic Changes of mmonium N the specific heat of ice and water to be clearly seen .
The values of the latent heat of fusion obtained in this way were 75 and 68 , which are reasonably near , the colrect alue .
Yet , even with much finer thermojunction wires , a similar experiment -ith anmlonium nitrate proved unsuccessful so far as the transformation is concerned , obviously on account of the vness of the all the other changes could be readily located .
llographic lfeasurements .
Upon the basis of the microscopic examination of ammonium nitrate itself , Wallerant has suggested that the forms stable above and below are identical , as is indicated by the ving p from his paper:\mdash ; " " Quand on sous le microscope , etc. Further , by various of an isomorphous salt , namely , caesium nitrate , to the ammonium nitrate used , Wallerant was able to show that the modification of ammonium nitrate could be rendered stable , not only above and below , but also throughout the whole intermediate of temperature ; the admixture with caesium nitrate thus gave the tetragonal modification stability at temperatures between and the experimental result is striking , it is not conclusive , because , whilst the two forms admittedly resenlble each other closely , it necessarily remains an open question as to whether a transition from one to the other modification does not occur without obvious physical change .
For these and for other reasons which will at once gest themselves , it seemed desirable to subject the tetragonal modifications stable above and below to careful crystallographic examination , in order to determine whether they really belong to the same class of the system , or whether morphological differences are traceable between of such a nature as to indicate a structural dissimilarity .
In the first place , supersaturated solutions of ammonium nitrate caused to crystallise by slow cooling in unsilvered Dewar vessels ; it was found convenient to work in aqueous solutions at about 10 and in dilute alcoholic solutions at about .
In each case skeletal crystals were obtained , which exhibited every indication of tetragonal symmetry , but no indications of hemi- or tetarto-hedral symmetry .
The best conditions for the production of well-characterised crystals of the modification stable below are difficult to determine , and ordinarily skeletal crystals , extending only in two directions , are obtainable at this temperature .
In some few cases , however , skeletal rowths extended in the On Polymorphic Changes of Ammonium Nitrate .
three ular directions were obtained , and in these the same sort of difference in kind between the nature of the growth in a third direction and that in the other two was observed .
These experiments , whilst clearly indicating the tetragonal symmetry of the crystals , give no indication that the tetragonal modifications stable at the high and the low temperatures are ically different .
The microscopic examination of ammonium nitrate at the high and low temperature in absence of a solvent led to conclusions similar to the .
It was found possible to arrange a sheet of thin platinum foil heated electrically and insulated from the microscope stage in such a manner that the modification stable above could be preserved for any desired period upon a glass slide laid under the platinum sheet ; the preparation was examined through a hole cut in the metal foil .
The difficulties introduced by the possible deposition of atmospheric moisture upon the modification stable below were overcome by surrounding the portion of the slide under examination by an annular ring of solid carbon dioxide cut by a cork borer from a hammered disc of the substance , the objective slowly lowered and pressed into the ring ; by working in this manner , the constant evolution of carbon dioxide gas prevents the access of atmospheric moisture to the slide and the objective .
Both arrangements are very simple , and seem well adapted for the microscopic examination of substances at high and low temperatures .
Wallerant has stated that on passing from the modification stable above to that stable below , with intermediate formation of the modifications stable between these temperatures , the orientation of the two tetragonal individuals is , in general , found to be the same .
This could not be confirmed , but it must be mentioned that even if the orientation of the two tetragonal modifications systematically differs , no argument is deducible against the identity of the two modifications , for even the same modification will very often reappear with another orientation after a transformation , especially if the changes occur slowly .
The double refraction of modification III seemed regularly to appear in the place of the uniaxial figure of II , but the same figure of only appeared once ( or twice ) at the same place in five experiments .
Experiments were also made with staining solutions to try to discover a dye which would colour one modification whilst leaving the other unchanged .
A number of dye stuffs , viz. , crystal violet , Nile blue , Congo red , water blue , ponceau , were tried , but all of them decomposed in contact with the salt .
On the Osmotic Pressure of Compressible Solutions , etc. 457 The main results of the research may be summarised as follows:\mdash ; ( a ) From the dilatometric and crystallographic work no definite information is forthcoming which affords any precise proof as to a difference in properties of the two tetragonal modifications of ammonium nitrate .
( b ) The argument derived from the investigation of the thermal properties tells , so far as it goes , ainst the identity of the two modifications , but it cannot be considered as decisive .
In conclusion , I desire to express my thanks to Professor Arthur Schuster for placing at my disposal the resources of the physical laboratory of the Manchester University .
On the Osmotic Pressure of Compressible Solntions of Degree of Concentration .
II.\mdash ; Cases in both and Solute Volatile .
By ALFRED W. PORTEIt , B.Sc. , Fellow of , Assistant Professor in , niversity of London , Universit ( Communicated by Professor F. T. Trouton , F.R.S. Received January 30 , \mdash ; Read February 20 , 1908 .
) In a former paper ( to be referred to here as Part I ) which appeared in the 'Proceedings of the Royal Societ found an exact relation between vapour-pressures and osmotic pressure in the usual case in which the solute may be taken as involatile .
The case now to be considered is the more general one in which both solvent and solute are volatile .
The concentration and temperature in the main part of the paper are taken as constant ; and the only restriction upon them is that the solutions and solvent must be capable of existing in liquid form .
The notation employed is the same as in Part I , any additional symbols .
specially defined when they occur .
1 .
I shall make use of the general theorem , proved in Part I , that wheIl a solution is in osmotic equilibrium with the pure solvenG , the vapour-pressure of the solution is equal to the vapour-pressure of the pure solvent , each measured for the actual hydrostatic pressure of the fluid to which it refers ; that is , with the former notation : .
( 1 ) This was shown to be true whether the solute is volatile or not .
, vol. , 1907 , pp. 519 , et seq. VOL. LXXX.\mdash ; A. 2

