Concerning the Differences in the magnetic Needle , on Board the Investigator , arising from an Alteration in the Direction of the Ship 's Head .
By Matthew Flinders , Esq. Commander of His Majesty 's Ship Investigator .
In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. Read March 28 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 186 .
] In the years 1801 and 1802 , while Capt. Flinders , on board the Investigator , was surveying the south coast of New Holland , he observed a difference in the direction of the magnetic needle , for which there appeared no other cause than that of the ship 's head being in a different direction .
The compasses made use of on board the abovementioned ship were of Walker 's construction , one excepted , which was made by Adams ; and it appears , from a table of observations given by Capt. Flinders , that some of the variations here treated of were 40 less , and others 40 greater than the truth .
It also appears , that when this error was to the west , the ship 's head was to the east , or nearly so ; when the error was eastward , the ship 's head was in a contrary direction ; and when the observations agree best with those taken on shore , which may be considered as having the true variation , the ship 's head was nearly north or south .
A minute inspection of the table seems to favour the opinion , that the excess or diminution of the variation was generally in proportion to the inclination of the ship 's head , from the magnetic meridian , on either side .
Capt. Flinders , having ascertained the certainty of a difference in the compass , arising from an alteration in the point steered , thought it necessary , when he wanted a set of bearings from a point where the ship tacked , to take one set just before and another immediately after that operation .
Several specimens of the manner in which these bearings were taken are given ; also a specimen of the plan he followed in protracting such bearings : these specimens axe in the form of tables , and are not of a nature to be abridged .
With respect to the cause of the differences here treated of , Capt. Flinders offers the following conjectures:1 st , That the attractive power of the different substances in a ship , which are capable of affecting the compass , is brought into a sort of focal point nearly in the centre of the Ship , where the shot are deposited ; the greatest quantity of iron being collected together at that part .
2ndly , That this point is endued with the same kind of attraction as the pole of the hemisphere where the ship is : consequently , in New Holland , the south end of the needle would be attracted by it , and the north end repelled .
3rdly , That the attractive power of this point , in a ship of war , is sufficiently strong to interfere with the action of the magnetic poles , upon a compass placed upon or in the binacle .
The above suppositions , Capt. Flinders thinks , will account for all the observed differences : and , admitting this opinion to be well founded , it ought , he says , to follow , that when the ship is on the north side of the magnetic equator , the differences in the variation of the magnetic needle , arising from a change in the ship 's head , must be directly contrary to those above described .
A few observations are given , which tend to confirm this opinion , and which also seem to show that the variation is more westerly when taken upon the binacle of a ship whose head is westward in north latitude , than when observed in the centre of the ship .
Capt. Cook having observed a considerable variation in the compass while takling some observations upon Pier Head , on the coast of New Holland , Capt. Flinders thought it right to make some fresh oblservations at that place .
He found , as Capt. Cook had done , that the stones which lay on the surface of the ground did not produce any sensible effect upon the needle , but that a considerable variation took place , by a change of situation of a few yards only , at the top of the hill .
Whether this arises from a particular magnetic substance lodged in the heart of the hill , or from the attractive powers of all the substances of which Pier Head is composed being centered in a point , similar to what Capt. Flinders has supposed to happen in a ship , is , he says , a question he shall not attempt to decide .

