Tran .
270 Fig. III .
E Fig. II .
E D A D A D D C E E D E Fig. I. E E D AD A C D B D I. An Account of a Polypus taken out of the Vnena Pulmoalis , and of the structure of that Vessel .
By Will .
Cowper , F.R.S. I Send you herewith the account and Figure of a Polypus , which I took out of a Child of about a year old .
Its first observable disorders were a quick Pulse , and a difficulty of Breathing .
In about four days the Gums were observed to be swelled , for which they were cut , and all symptoms disappeared for five or six hours , after which they returned .
Notwithstanding Blood-letting , and the application of other Remedies , the Difficulty of Breathing increased , the Pulse became still lower and quicker , and in four days more the Child dyed .
The Body was opened , and the Viscera of the lower Belly were found well constituted .
In the Thorax the Thymus exceeded the natural size even in Children .
The fore part of the Lungs appeared to be well disposed , but the back parts were very hard , and much inflamed .
Making Incision on the diseased part , Purulent matter followed the Knife in such quantity from divers Cells , that it filled the wounds as fast as made , and pieces cut from it sunk in water .
But as we approached nearer to the parts unaffected , the pieces became gradually more buoyant , till at length we came to the fore part , which floated .
The Cavities of the right Auricle and Ventricle of the Heart were filled with a Polypus , which was continued into the superior and inferior Trunk of the Vena Cava .
Opening the Vena Pulmonaris at the Basis of the Heart , I found it there compleatly filled with a Polypus ( or coagulation of Blood ) which was continued into all the large branches of it in the Lungs , and were easily drawn out , and when displayed , appeared as expressed Fig. III .
This Polypus affords us a better Idea of the contrivance and structure of the Pulmonary Vein than any Figures of that Vessel yet published : For tho in different subjects of the same species we meet with frequent varieties in thedestribution of the Blood-vessels , especially of the Veins ; we no where find a more constant Regularity and Unifor formity than in the trunks and large branches of the Pulmonary Vein ; of which I have added two Figures ( vid .
Fig. I. and II .
) drawn after a Preparation of that Vein injected with Wax , and freed from the Lungs of an Adult Humane body .
The Original Preparation is to be seen among the Anatomical Collections of the Accurate Dr. Tyson .
Among many very considerable parts of the Humane Body , not ill expressed in the Tables published by Bidloo , and overlooked , or not known by him , this Trunk of the Pulmonary Vein is one ; unless he may be allow 'd to call it the Left Ventricle of the Heart , as he has done Tab.22 .
Fig. 7 .
A. which mistake and omission , tho very gross , I corrected , without reflecting , or taking notice of the fault of the Professor , and some hundred others of that work , tho I could not possibly avoid naming him on near forty other such occasions , in my explication of those Tables , published not long since in English , of which and the rest perhaps more hereafter .
The Trunk of this Vein is very ill expressed in the xxxth Table of Kerckringius 's Anatomical Observations , as will appear by comparing it with those here .
However , some later writers of Anatomy have been contented to borrow it , without observing the fault .
The Left Auricle of the Heart ( vid .
Fig. I. II .
) in Humane Bodies being much less than the Right , it was necessary that the part of this Vein next the Basis of the Heart should be very large ; ( ib. AA B ) lest the sudden strong motion of the Systole should cause the Refluent blood to recoil in the branches of this vein ( ib. DDE E ) and prevent a ready supply in the succeeding Diastole of the Heart .
But the weight of so much Blood lying in the trunk of this Vessel ( ib. A A. B ) does effectually prevent its retrocession in the lateral branches within the Lungs ; ( ib. DD .
EE ) and the more , because the Orifices of those branches ( ib. DD .
) are not diametrically opposite ( at A A. Fig. ib. ) to the mouth of the Vessel on the Basis of the Heart ( ib. B ) its lateral branches making Acute angles with the Trunk , as represented Fig. I. II .
Epi-

