" Some Account of the Suez Canal , in a Letter to the President .
" By J. F. BATrEMAN , Esq. , F.R.S. Received January 3 , 1870 .
16 Great George Street , Westminster , 27th December , 1869 .
MY DEAR SIR EDWARD , -On my return from the opening of the Suez Canal , where , by your kind selection , I had the honour of representing the Royal Society as the guest of the Viceroy , I think it incumbent on me to give a short account of my journey and my impressions of the great and important undertaking which was so magnificently inaugurated .
Nothing could exceed the splendid hospitality of the Viceroy , who had in every possible way provided for the accommodation and the comfort of his guests .
The crowd of visitors , however , was so great , and his own personal attendance was so constantly given to the Empress of the French , the Emperor of Austria , and other Royal personages who honoured him with their company , that it was almost impossible for him to bestow any special attention on other individual guests ; but few or none could complain of any want of attention or of any material inconvenience .
I was fortunate in being present at every important point and on every important occasion , and in receiving all the civilities which might be considered due to the representative of the Royal Society .
Of the work itself I have no hesitation in pronouncing it a decided success-not all that could be desired , nor all that was pronised , and very far from being finished , even on the contracted scale on which it has been executed .
A reef of rocks at Serapeum , extending for about 85 metres in length , at a depth of 16 or 17 feet below the surface of the canal , and which was not discovered till just before the period fixed for the opening , at present limits the draft of vessels which can use the navigation .
There are some objectionable curves and narrow places , and many miles of unprotected slopes , all of which must be improved or remedied before the canal can be placed in a satisfactory condition .
Still , in its present state , vessels drawing not more than 16 feet can pass from end to end with facility and safety ; and when the rocks alluded to are removed , the depth will be increased to 21 or 22 feet .
For years before the commencement of the project which has been , so far , happily concluded , the practicability of forming and maintaining a maritime canal between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean was a muchdisputed point among modern engineers .
It was known that a water communication between the two seas had existed and been maintained for 600 years before , and for about 800 years after , the commencement of the Christian era ; subsequent to which time it was allowed to fall into decay , and for a thousand years has so remained .
The first idea , in modern times , of restoring this ancient water commu nication , or of forming another more suitable to existing circumstances , seems to be due to the Emperor Napoleon I. ( then General Bonaparte ) , who , at the close of the last century , during his occupation of Egypt , directed that a complete survey of the ancient canal should be made under the direction of M. Lepere , a French engineer of reputation .
This survey was completed , and a project for a canal was designed in accordance with the apparent facts resulting from M. Lepere 's survey .
The evacuation of the country by the French put an end to further investigation , and arrested all progress in this direction for many years .
The conclusion at which M. Lepere arrived was , that the level of the Red Sea at high water at Suez was 301 feet higher than low water in the Mediterranean in Pelusium Bay ; and his scheme was projected in accordance with the existence of such a difference in the level of the two seas .
He also ascertained that the rise and fall of the tide in the Red Sea was 5or 6 feet , and in the Mediterranean about 1 foot , leaving still a difference of 25 feet between the respective low waters of the two seas .
Doubts of the accuracy of the statement as to the difference of these levels were entertained by those who carefully considered the subject ; but it was not till the year 1847 that these doubts were set at rest .
In that year the late Mr. Robert Stephenson , in conjunction with M. Talabot , a French engineer , M. de Negrelli , an Austrian engineer , and Linant Bay , a French engineer in the Egyptian service , directed a series of independent levellings across the Isthmus , which determined beyond all doubt the important fact that " at low water there was no essential difference in the level of the two seas , and that at high water it was not more than 4 feet , the rise of tide being about 1 foot in the Mediterranean and about 6 feet in the Red Sea .
" Up to that time Mr. Stephenson seems to have been in favour of the proposal to form a canal across the Isthmus , in accordance with the views of Linant Bay , who " proposed to carry a canal from the Red Sea through the Bitter Lakes to Lake Timsah , and thence through the lagoons of Menzaleh to Tineh ( Pelusium ) on the Mediterranean : " it was " thus expected to create a current through the canal of three or four miles an hour ; " and " the project appeared very feasible , and was calculated to excite high hopes of success .
" When , however , it was ascertained that the level of the two seas was practically the same , Mr. Stephenson remarked " it became evident that it would not be practicable to keep open a level cut or canal without any current between the two seas , and the project was abandoned .
" The fact of there being no difference in the level of the two seas led other men to very different conclusions ; for shortly after the period here referred to , M. Ferdinand Lesseps conceived the idea which has since been so successfully realized .
Hlis project was to cut a great canal on the level of the two seas by the nearest and most practicable route , which lay L along the valley or depression containing Lake Menzaleh , Lake Ballah , Lake Timsah , and the Bitter Lakes .
The cliaracter of this route was well described in 1830 by General ( then Captain ) Chesney , R.A. , who examined and drew up a report on the country between the Mediterranean and the Red Sea .
At that time a difference of 30 feet between the two seas was still assumed , and all proposals for canals were laid out on that assumption .
Allowance must , of course , be made for this error , in so far as it affected any particular project of canal ; but it would not affect the accuracy of any general description of the district to be traversed .
General Chesney summed up his report by stating , " as to the executive part , there is but one opinion : there are no serious difficulties ; not a single mountain intervenes , scarcely what deserves to be called a hillock ; and in a country where labour can be had without limit , and at a rate infinitely below that of any other part of the world , the expense would be a moderate one for a single nation , and scarcely worth dividing among the great kingdoms of Europe , who would all be benefited by the measure .
" M. Lesseps was well advised therefore in the route he selected , and ( assuming the possibility of keeping open the canal ) in the character of the project he proposed .
From 1849 to 1854 he was occupied in maturing his project for a direct canalization of the Isthmus .
In the latter year Mahomet Said Pasha became Viceroy of Egypt , and sent at once for M. Lesseps to consider with him the propriety of carrying out the work he had in view .
The result of this interview was , that on the 30th of November in the same year a Commission was signed at Cairo charging M. Lesseps to constitute and direct a Company named " The Universal Suez Canal Company .
" In the following year , 1855 , M. Lesseps , acting for the Viceroy , invited a number of gentlemen eminent as directors of public works , as engineers , and distinguished in other ways , to form an International Commission for the purpose of considering and reporting on the practicability of forming a ship canal between the Mediterranean and the Red Sea .
This Commission , which included some of the ablest civil and military engineers of Europe , was honorary , and its members were considered as guests of the Viceroy .
The Commission met in Egypt in December 1855 and January 1856 , and , accompanied by M. Lesseps , and by Mougel Bay and Linant Bay , engineers , and other gentlemen in the service of the Viceroy , they made a careful examination of the harbours in the two seas and of the intervening Desert , and arrived at the conclusion that a ship canal was practicable between the Gulf of Pelusium in the Mediterranean and the Red Sea near Suez .
They differed , however , as to the mode in which such a canal should be constructed .
The three English engineering members of the Commision were of opinion that a ship canal raised 25 feet above the sea-level , and communicating with the Bay of Pelusium at one end and the Red Sea at the other , by means of locks , and supplied with water from the Nile , was the best mode of construction .
The foreign members , on the contrary , held that a canal 27 feet below sea-level , from sea to sea , without any lock , and with harbours at each end , was the best system : the harbours to be formed by piers and dredging out to deep water .
The whole of the Members of the Corlmission , with the exception of Mr. Rendel , met at Paris in June 1856 , when the views of the English engineers were , after full discussion , rejected , and the report to the Viceroy recommended the system which has since been carried out .
The Commission estimated the work to cost ?
8,000,000 .
Two years from the date of this report were spent in conferences and preliminary steps before M. Lesseps obtained the necessary funds for carrying out the works .
About half the capital required was subscribed on the Continent , by far the larger portion being taken in France , and the other half was found by the Viceroy .
Further time was necessarily lost in preparatiol , and it was not till near the close of 1860 that the work was actually commenced .
In this interval two " Reports on the subject of the Deposits of the Delta of the Nile " were made by Admiral ( then Captain ) T. Spratt , R.N. , C.B. , F.R.S. , extracts from which were printed by order of the House of Commons in 1860 .
They embraced " An Enquiry into the Soundness of M. Lesseps 's Reasonings and Arguments on the practicability of the Suez Canal , " and " An Investigation of the effect of the prevailing Wave-influence on the Nile 's Deposits , and upon the Littoral of its Delta .
" These documents were dated respectively 30th January and 9th July 1858 .
The conclusion to which Captain Spratt arrived was adverse to M. Lesseps 's project .
He was of opinion that it would be next to impossible to keep open any harbour to the eastward of the mouths of the Nile ; and he warned " the commercial interest against risking their millions in the undertaking .
" He contended that the material brought to the sea by the Nile , and which is carried eastwards by the prevailing winds and currents , would accumulate against the piers or jetties proposed to be carried out to deep water at Port Said , so rapidly and to such an extent as to prevent the maintenance of a sufficient harbour .
He thought " the sands of the Nile would mount over the piers of Said , " and he did not believe that any amount of dredging would overcome the difficulties .
It was against such opinions from high authority that M. Lesseps had to contend ; but his confidence in his project and his courage and perseverance never failed him .
As time went on , he had other difficulties ahead .
The original concession granted extraordinary privileges to the Company .
It included or contemplated the formation of a " sweet-water " canal for the use of the workmen engaged ; and the Company were to become proprietors of all the land which could be irrigated by means of this canal .
One of the conditions of the concession also was , that the Viceroy should procure forced labour for the execution of the work ; and soon after the commencement of operations , and for some time , the number of workmen so engaged amounted to from 25,000 to 30,000 .
The work , thus commenced , steadily proceeded until 1862 , when the late Viceroy , during his visit to this country at the time of the International Exhibition , requested Mr. -Iawkshaw , F.R.S. , to visit the canal and report on the condition of the works and the practicability of its being successfully completed and maintained .
His Iighness 's instructions were , that Mr. Hawkshaw should make an examination of the works quite independently of the French Company and their engineers , and report , from his own personal examination and consideration , the result at which he arrived .
If his report were favourable , the work would be proceeded with ; if unfavourable , it would at once be stopped .
Mr. Hawkshaw proceeded to Egypt upon this important commission in November of the same year ; and in February 1863 he wrote a well-considered report which may be said to have in great measure contributed to the rapid and successful completion of the work .
Mr. IHawkshaw described the works of the canal which had been already executed , and those which remained at that time unfinished .
IHe examined and discussed the dimensions of the various parts then in progress , recommending various alterations ; and having carefully gone into all the details of construction , he proceeded to investigate the question of maintenance , with reference to which it had been urged by opponents:"1st .
That the canal will become a stagnant ditch .
" 2nd .
That the canal will silt up , or that the moving sands of the Desert will fill it up .
" 3rd .
That the Bitter Lakes through which the canal is to pass will be filled up with salt .
" 4th .
That the navigation of the Red Sea is dangerous and difficult .
" 5th .
That shipping will not approach Port Said , because of the difficulties that will be met with , and the danger of that port on a leeshore .
" 6th .
That it will be difficult , if not impracticable , to keep open the Mediterranean entrance to the canal .
" laving analyzed each of these objections , and fully weighed the arguments on which they were based , he came to the following conclusions as to the practicability of construction and of maintenance:"1st .
As regards the engineering construction , there are no works on the canal presenting on their face any unusual difficulty of execution , and there are no contingencies , that I can conceive , likely to arise that would introduce difficulties insurmountable by engineering skill .
" 2ndly .
As regards the maintenance of the canal , I am of opinion that no obstacles would be met with that would prevent the work , when completed , , being maintained with ease and efficiency , and without the necessity of incurring any extraordinary or unusual yearly expenditure .
" The whole of Mr. Hawkshaw 's report is well worthy of perusal ; and I must congratulate him on the sound conclusions at which he arrived , and on the foresight by which he was enabled to point out difficulties and contingencies which have since arisen .
Could he at that time have seen the full realization of the work , he would scarcely have altered the report he wrote .
Said Pasha died between the period of Mr. Hawkshaw 's examination of the country and the date of his report .
He was succeeded by his brother Ismail , the present Viceroy or Khedive , who , alarmed at the largeness and uncertainty of the grants to the Canal Company , of the proprietorship of land which could be irrigated by the Sweet-water Canal , and anxious to retire from the obligation of finding forced labour for the construction of the works , refused to ratify or agree to the concessions granted by his brother .
The whole question was referred to the arbitration of the present Emperor of the French , who kindly undertook the task , and awarded the sum of ?
3,800,000 to be paid by the Viceroy to the Canal Company as indemnification for the loss they would sustain by the withdrawal of forced or native labour , for the retrocession of large grants of land , and for the abandonment of other privileges attached to the original Act of Concession .
This money was applied to the prosecution of the works .
The withdrawal of native labour involved very important changes in the mode of conducting the works , and occasioned at the time considerable delay .
Mechanical appliances for the removal of the material , and European skilled labour , had to be substituted ; these had to be recruited from different parts of Europe , and great difficulty was experienced in procuring them .
The accessory canals had to be widened for the conveyance of larger dredging-machines , and additional dwellings had to be provided for the accommodation of European labourers .
All these difficulties were overcome , and the work proceeded .
Since the date of Mr. Hawkshaw 's Report , viz. February 1863 , much has been said and written upon the operations of the canal as they were going on , and upon its prospects of success .
Sir William Denison , K.C.B. , R.E. , presented the Institution of Civil Engineers , in April 1867 , with a paper on the condition of the works as he found them at the end of 1866 , which led to an animated discussion upon the whole subject .
The conclusions at which Sir William Denison himself arrived were : " 1st .
That ( subject , of course , to the condition that the relative levels of the Red Sea and the Mediterranean are as stated by the French authorities ) there will be no extraordinary difficulty in carrying an open saltwater channel from the Mediterranean to the Red Sea of the depth proposed , namely 8 metres .
s " 2nd .
That no special difficulty in maintaining this channel need be anticipated .
" 3rd .
That it will be necessary to modify the section proposed by the French engineers , making the side slopes much more gradual .
" 4th .
That the cost of maintaining the above-mentioned depth of water will be found at first to be largely in excess of the amount estimated .
Eventually , it is by no means impossible that means may be found to fix or check the drift of sand , or to shut it out from the canal .
But for some years it must be expected that the ordinary action of the atmosphere , which has filled up former excavations made in this dry desert , will have the same effect on the new canal .
" Looking at the work as an engineer , there does not appear to be any difficulty which a skilful application of capital may not overcome .
" In the discussion which followed , while on the one hand Sir William Denison 's views were well supported , much was said , on the other hand , of the difficulties which would attend the construction , and the impossibility of keeping open the harbours and the canal .
The old questions of silting up and stagnation were discussed ; and quotations from the correspondence of Mr. R. Stephenson with M. de Negrelli were read , with the object of showing the absurdity of the whole scheme .
In one of these quotations Mr. Stephenson thus expresses himself:"In conclusion , Sir , I will only say that I have-indeed I can haveno hostility to a maritime canal through the Isthmus of Suez .
If I could regard such a canal as commercially advantageous , I have already shown that I should be the first to give it the advantage of my time , my money , and my experience .
It was because , after elaborate investigation , and ia conjunction with such men as M. Talabot , I arrived at a clear conclusion that the project was not one which deserved serious attention , that I refused to give it support .
I should be delighted to see a channel like the Dardanelles or the Bosphorus penetrating the Isthmus that divides the Red Sea from the Mediterranean .
But I know that such a channel is impracticable-that nothing can be effected even by the most unlimited expenditure of time and life and money beyond the formation of a stagnant ditch , between two almost tideless seas , unapproachable by large ships under any circumstances , and only capable of being used by small vessels when the prevalent winds permit their exit and their entrance .
I believe that the project will prove abortive in itself and ruinous to its constructors ; and entertaining that view , I will no longer permit it to be said that , by abstaining from expressing myself fillly on the subject , I am tacitly allowing capitalists to throw away their money on what my knowledge assures me to be an unwise and unremunerative speculation .
" It was shown also by calculations that the evaporation from the Bitter Lakes alone , without taking into consideration the long length of canal , was such that the channel from the Red Sea to the lakes was much too small to supply the loss , and that the result would be that the water in these Lakes must settle to a level below the low water of a spring tide in the Red Sea .
It was urged too that there would be great difficulty in maintaining the entrances to the harbours and the harbours themselves , and that bars would inevitably form at each end of the canal .
It will be seen therefore that , so recently as 1867 , opinions were strongly against the success of the canal , those persons who entertained contrary views being in a considerable minority .
In the commencement of this year Mr. John Fowler , C.E. , wrote an excellent letter to ' The Times ' on the condition in which he then found the canal , and upon its prospects .
The observations which he made , and the conclusions at which he arrived , seem to have been carefully formed and well grounded .
He stated that the cost would greatly exceed the original estimate , although the works were carried out of much less than the originally proposed dimensions-that the works were in truth simple in character , and in a soil favourable to execution , but of such vast magnitude , and in a country presenting such peculiar difficulties in climate , and in the absence of fresh water , that special organization and adoption of means of no ordinary kind were required for their realization .
He was of opinion that large quantities of alluvium would find their way into the harbour at Port Said , and that it would be necessary to make the western breakwater solid to prevent the deposit being carried through , as at presentnevertheless that no apprehension need be entertained as to the channel and harbour being silted up and destroyed , but that considerable expense in dredging would be constantly required .
He agreed with Mr. IHawkshaw that the amount of drifting sand would not be such as materially to interfere with maintenance , that various means might be adopted for limiting the amount , but that , after every precaution , it would be necessary to employ one or two powerful dredges to keep the canal clear from the sand blown in .
He was further of opinion that the protection of the slopes by stone would be necessary .
With reference to the evaporation from the Bitter Lakes , and the current from the Red Sea to those Lakes , he believed that it would not be strong enough to affect injuriously the bottom or sides of the channel , after they had been properly protected by stone pitching .
Mr. Fowler then entered into a consideration of the mode in which the traffic should be carried on and the probable use to be made of the canal , and concluded his letter with a well-deserved compliment to the remarkable energy and perseverance of M. Lesseps , to the skill and resources of M. Voisin , the Engineer-in-chief , and the district engineers acting under him , and to the great powers of organization and high qualities of MI .
Levalley , the contractor .
The total length of the canal from Port Said to Suez is 99 miles ; it varies in width from 196 feet to 327 feet , having , however , in each case a width of 72 feet in the centre , the slopes on each side of this centre width varying with the character of the material cut through .
Near Port Said , and through the shallow lake of Menzaleh , the material is very sandy ; and here and elsewhere , under similar circumstances , the slopes must be protected by stone pitching or facing , or they will wash down by the action of passing vessels , and the material thus deposited in the bottom of the canal must be removed by dredging .
Further south , the material generally becomes more argillaceous and stony ; and here the slopes will be much more easily maintained , though nearly throughout the whole length of the canal some stone protection at the level of the water will be required .
Before reaching Lake Timsah , which lies about midway between Port Said and Suez , the canal passes through the deep cutting of El Guisr , which at its greatest depth is 85 feet to the bottom of the canal .
The lower part of this excavation , at and a little above the level of the water , consists of soft clay , above which is a concreted mass of shells and sand ; and this is covered by loose sand liable to be acted on by the wind .
The canal here is curved and narrow , and ought to be improved in both respects .
It is again restricted in width through the deep cutting at Serapeum ; but here , the material being argillaceous and strong , the slope will be easily maintained in shape .
From the Bitter Lakes to Suez it is a wide , noble , and well-finished canal .
Out of the whole length , nearly 30 miles are through Lake Timsah and the Bitter Lakes , 51 miles in the first , and 23}in the latter .
In these lakes a deep channel has been dredged out , which is marked by buoys and stakes .
These vast sheets of water in the midst of the Desert , on which so many noble vessels were floating , had been but a few months before mere dry depressions , covered by a stratum of salt .
The filling them with water commenced in February from the Mediterranean , and in July from the Red Sea .
They were filled by the beginning of October , thus belying one of the many unfavourable prophecies , that the absorption and evaporation would be so great that they would never fill at all , or , if they did , the current inwards in both directions would be so great as to be destructive of the canal .
On our voyage from Port Said to near Lake Timsah there was a current setting against us towards the Mediterranean .
We anchored about -3 mile from the end of this portion of the canal , and at daylight the next morning there was a current in the same direction of nearly 1mile an hour .
Our time of starting from Lake Timsah was purposely delayed till near midday , that we might have the tide from the Red Sea against us , and deep water over the rocks at Serapeum .
The current towards Lake Timsah was strong ; and on the following morning , between the Bitter Lakes and Suez , it ran at 3miles per hour , but a strong southerly wind accompanied the tide .
We had no opportunity of making observations ourselves , or of obtaining information ; but my impression is that at this season of the year there is on the average of the day a regular current from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean .
This is an interesting as well as important question ; and it is to be hoped that regular observations will be taken at all points along the canal , and at each end , which may show accurately the rise and fall of tide , the velocity and duration of the currents in each direction , and the relative height of the various portions of the canal and the Lakes it traverses .
The range of the tide in the Mediterranean is , as already stated , about 12 inches , while in the Red Sea at Suez it varies from 4 to 6 feet .
On the day of the opening thirty.two vessels reached Lake Timsah without let or hindrance ; one Egyptian vessel , the 'Garbia , ' coming after this number , stuck fast for some hours about 12 miles from the Lake , and retarded a number of vessels in its rear ; but eventually all came forward , and the mighty fleet assembled on Lake Timsah the following day .
At Port Said I counted on the day of the inauguration more than ninety vessels , chiefly of the largest class ( many being upwards of 2000 tons register ) , and including a fleet of British " iron-clads , " which anchored within the western pier .
Here , however , a good deal requires to be done .
The harbour is formed by two jetties built of concrete blocks , the western one being run out to sea , at right angles to the shore , for a distance of 2400 metres , and then turned eastwards for 300 metres more .
The eastern jetty starts from shore at a distance of 1400 metres from the western pier , is continued out to sea for a length of about 1700 metres , gradually approaching to within about 700 metres of the western jetty at its termination .
The western jetty has been erected for protection , and for the purpose of intercepting the sand and alluvial matter which are undoubtedly drifted from the mouth of the Nile eastwards .
This work is too light and too open effectually to answer its purpose , and requires improvement .
Close in shore a considerable amount of the drifting sand has been arrested , and where the sea recently flowed there is already an accumulation of dry land .
On the land thus formed were erected the temple in which the Viceroy received his principal guests at the inauguration , and the temples for the worship of the Mahometan and Christian churches , where all the religions of the world were supposed to be present and to ask a blessing on the great undertaking the opening of which they were assembled to celebrate .
In its present condition , the jetty favours the deposit of material within the harbour ; and not until the passage of the sand through the interstices of the concrete blocks of which it is built has been checked , will there be any effectual protection against the silting up which is taking place .
Perhaps by degrees an inner bank or shoal may be formed , which would answer the purpose of a breakwater ; but this would create a crooked and inconvenient channel , and would be ineffective towards the seaward end of the jetty .
The Company will no doubt see the necessity of completing the necessary works here and elsewhere .
The harbour at Port Said and portions of the canal will require pretty constant dredging for some time ; but in my opinion neither this nor any other work will entail any very seriois expense in maintenance .
The cost of the whole undertaking is stated to have been about ?
16,000,000 sterling ; and it may require from ?
2,000,000 to ?
4,000,000 more to complete the work satisfactorily on its present scale of dimensions ; but interest has to be paid at present on about half only of the capital hitherto raised .
Many persons who are competent to form sound opinions on this point believe that the traffic will be quite sufficient to pay all cost of maintenance and handsome dividends ; but I am not sufficiently well informed to hazard any conjecture on the purely financial part of the question .
In an engineering point of view I consider the canal a great and most important undertaking-great , however , only as respects its magnitude and the country in which it has been executed .
There is not a work of art or of difficulty from one end to the other ; but there have been about 80,000,000 cubic yards of material excavated , and at one time nearly 30,000 labourers were employed in the works .
For their sustenance , and before operations could be carried on with any vigour , sweet water had to be brought from the Nile at Cairo , and distributed along the whole length of the canal .
This work was in itself one of considerable magnitude .
It is a navigable canal from Cairo to Ismailia , and thence to Suez .
From Ismailia to Port Said and intervening places , the fresh water is conveyed in pipes .
The surplus water has been applied to irrigation , the fertilizing results of which are already visible , and may be expected to perform an important part in the improvement of the country .
The canal must be regarded as a great work , more from its relation to the national and commercial interests of the world than from its engineering features .
In this light it is impossible to overestimate its importance .
It will effect a total revolution in the mode of conducting the great trafic between the East and the West , the beneficial effects of which I believe it is difficult to realize .
It is in this sense that the undertaking must be regarded as a great one ; and its accomplishment is due mainly to the rare courage and indomitable perseverance of M. Ferdinand Lesseps , who well deserves the respect he has created and the praises which have been bestowed .
By cutting across the sandy ligaments which have hitherto united Asia and Africa , a channel of water-communication has been opened between the East and the West which will never again be closed so long as mercantile prosperity lasts or civilization exists .
I cannot close this letter without expressing my obligations to Mr. Pender , Chairman of the Eastern Telegraphic Comlpanies , who courteously entertained me , with other friends , on our passage through the canal on A board the 'Hawk , ' a steam corvette belonging to the Electric Telegraph Construction Company , which had been placed at his disposal .
On board this vessel were assembled a small body of distinguished and intelligent gentlemen , who had more than usual opportunities of obtaining such information as time and circumstances afforded .
I have the honour to remain , Very truly and faithfully yours , JOHN FRED .
BATEMAN .
Lieut.-General Sir Edward Sabine , P.R.S. , K. C , B. Memorandum as to the Dimensions of the Canal .
The following , it is believed , are the dimensions on which the canal has been constructed .
They are principally extracted from Mr. Fowler 's letter .
1 .
From Port Said , through Lakes Menzaleh and Ballah , to near El Ferdane ... ... . .
2 .
From near El Ferdane , through the great excavation of Seuil de Guisr , to Lake Timsah .
3 .
Through Lake Timsah ... ... ... ... ... .
4 .
From Lake Timsah , through the excavation of Seuil de Serapeum , to the Bitter Lakes. .
5 .
Through the Bitter Lakes ... ... ... ... .
6 .
Through the deep portion of Chalouf cutting .
7 .
Thence to Suez and the end of the canal ... .
files , in Width at length .
top water , in feet .
37 327 9 ' 2 23 23 ; 5 11 196 327 196 327 196 327 Total length ... ... ... ... . .
99 The canal is intended throughout to be 8 metres , or 26 ft. 4 in .
in depth .
In every case this depth is to be maintained for a width at the bottom in the centre of 72 feet , with slopes on each side of 2 horizontal to I vertical to within a few feet of the surface .
In the wider portions of the canal the sides above this level are formed with flat slopes of 5 horizontal to 1 vertical , with a horizontal bench between the two slopes of 58 feet in width .
A narrower bench is left where the canal is of the smaller width .
On board the ' Hawk ' soundings were taken along the whole length of the canal .
Between Port said and Lake Timsah the soundings near the centre of the canal , on both sides of the vessel , showed a depth varying from 21 ft. to 29 ft. , the greater number being from 24 to 29 .
In Lake Timsah the depth , according to soundings , was from 19 to 23 ft. Between Lake Timsah and the Bitter Lakes there were no soundings less than 21 ft. , except over the rocks at Serapeum , where vessels drawing 1870 .
] 143 16 ft. only could pass .
In the Bitter Lakes the depth was seldom below 28 ft. , often above 30 ft. ; and the same may be said of the canal between the Bitter Lakes and the Red Sea at Suez .
On each side of the deep part in the centre the depth was generally about 12 or 13 ft. Where the slopes are unprotected by stone , and the natural soil is sandy , the sides , notwithstanding the flat slope , were a good deal washed when a paddle-wheel steamer ( the 'Delta , ' P. &amp; 0 .
1600 tons ) advanced at seven or eight miles an hour ; but comparatively little effect was produced when the speed did not exceed five or six miles an hour .
Two large vessels will find it difficult to pass each other ; but " lie-by " or passing-places are being constructed to remedy this inconvenience .
J. F. B. January 13 , 1870e WAREREN DE LA RUE , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the Table , and thanks ordered for them , as follows : Transactions .
Basel:-Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Verhandlungen .
Theil V. Heft 2 .
8vo .
Basel 1869 .
The Society .
Bern:-N-aturforschende Gesellschaft .
Mliittheilungen , aus demJahre 1868 .
No. 654-683 .
8vo .
Bern 1869 .
The Society .
Brussels:-Academie Royale deMedecine .
Memoires .
TomeV .
Fasc.l .
4to .
Bruxelles 1869 .
Bulletin .
3e serie , Tome II .
No. 10 ; Tome III .
Nos. 5-10 .
8vo .
Brucelles 1868-69 .
The Acadeny .
Buenos Aires:-Museo Publico .
Anales , por German Burmeister .
Entrega 6 .
4to .
Buenos Aires 1869 .
The Museum Einsiedeln:-Schweizerische Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Verhandlungen .
Jahresbericht 1868 .
8vo .
Einsiedeln .
The Society .
Geneva:--Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle .
Memoires .
Tome XX .
Party 1 .
4to .
Genreve 1869 .
The Society .
Gittingen:-Koinigl .
Sternwarte .
Astronomische 3ittheilungen .
Theil T. 4to , Gotingen 1869 .
The Royal Society of Gottingen .
Graz:-NTaturwissenschaftlicher Verein fir Steiermark .
Mittheilungen .
Band II .
Heft 1 .
8vo .
Graz 1869 .
The Society .
Haarlem:-1M[usee Teyler .
Archives .
Vol. II .
Face .
3 .
roy .
8vo .
Haarlemn 1869 .
The LMuseum .
London:-Quekett Microscopical Club .
Journal .
Nos. 7-9 .
Fourth Report .
8vo .
London 1869-70 .
The Club .
Utrecht:-Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen .
Natuurkundige Verhandelingen .
NieuweRceks .
DeelI , 144 Presents .
[ Jan. 13 ,

