]\gt ; Lord Raylcigh .
On siiies of Carbonic VII .
the Refiactivities of Air , , Nitrogen , Argon , Hydrogcn , and Helinm By ofessor w Ph. D. , .D .
, Sc. D. , F.R.S. , and MOP .
W. , B.Sc. : ' On the Densities of rbonic Oxide , Carbonic ydride , and Nitrous Oxide By LORD , F.R.S. Reccive October 12 , \mdash ; Read December 9 , 1897 .
The observations here recorded were ried out by the metlJod and with the apparatus described in a former paper , which ] refel.ence must be made for detaiIs .
It mtlst suffice to say lobe C the gas to be weighed was filled at C. , to pressure detcrmined by a manometric gauge .
This pressure , nearly atmospheric , is slightly variable with on account of the expansion of the mercury and involved .
The actnally observed weights are corrected so as to respond with temperature of C. of the gauge , as well as for the errors in the platinurn and brass eights employed .
In the present , as well as in the iments I ve been ably assisted by .
George Gordon .
Oxile .
Tbis prepared by three methods .
In the first method { lask , sealed to the rest of the apparatus , was charged with 80 lecrystallised ferrocyanide of potassinm and 360 .
strong sulphuric acid .
The generabion of gas could be started by the application of heat , and with ib could be checked and finally stopped by removal of the flame with subsequent application , if necessary , of cotion wool to the exterior of the flask .
In this way one could be with great advantage for several filIings .
leaving the flask the gas was passed through a bubbler potash tion ( convenient as aIlowing the rate of production to be nore easily estimated ) and thence tlIrough tubes charged with fra gments of potash and phosplloric arlhydride , all connected by sealing .
When possible , the of the globe full was compared with the mean of the precediug and weights empty .
Four experiments were made with results agreeing to within a few tenths of a In the second set of iments the flask was charged with 100 grams of oxalic acid and 600 rong sulphuric acid .
To absorb the large quantity of simultaneously evolved a plel ) tiful * ' ' On the Densities of the \ldquo ; ' Roy .
Soc. ' vol. 53 , p. 134 , lS93 .
Oxide .
ydride , a supply of was required .
A -bottle and a nearly tubc contained alkaline solution , nnd these were followed ) the tubes solid potash and phosphoric anhydefore .
For the expel.iments of the third set ) laced b is more convenicnt as ot the ption o volumes of CO In this case the consisted of rams of acid , and .
distilled atcr . .
is in ordel .
to nction in the cold .
amount equires to ) somewhab carefnily usted .
-lts ) .
] the tubes solid potash fi.nd phosphoric nhydrid e. In this set there four iments .
The and thus : \mdash ; Carbonic Oxide .
From anidc . . . . . . . . . .
oxalic acid . . . . . . . . . . . .
formate of soda . . . . . . . .
Mcall is csponds to { he lbcr 2 for and subject to corl.ection ddive ) of for the diminution of cxterllol olume of when exhausted .
of the densities of cal.bonic oxide and oxygen is thus : ; so if of oxyg.en be taken of ic oxide will be .
If , as some llCtl tindicate , equal volumes may ) taken as tely ve of CO and of , the atomic of bc on the scale of gen close between the weights of citrbonic oxide in tLree different is is some guarantee ainst the cscncc of an of widely differing density .
the other , some careful ents led Mr. T. to tho ion that carbonic oxide is liable to considel.able quftntities of ogcn or of hydl.rbons .
From litres of idc ssed over hot cuprlc oxide he collected no less millialIl 8 of ater , and tho evidence to prove the ived from the carbonic oxide .
Such a proportion of old erltail a deficiency in the of lobe of ramsb , and seems improbable view of the good cment of the llumbcrs recorded .
The presence of so * On Densilics of Gases ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. , p. 144 . .
Phil. Proc , p. 1 .
Acad. Proc vol. 18 , 206 Lord Rayleigh .
On the Densities of Carboni hydrogen in carbonic oxide is also difficult to reconcils with the wellknown experiments of Professor Dixon , who found that prolonged treatment with phosphoric anhydride was required in order to render the mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen inexplosive .
In the presence of relatively large quantities of free hydrogen ( or hydrocarbons ) why should traces of water vapour be so important In an experiment by Dr. Scott , litres of carbon monoxide gave only ligrams to the drying tube after oxidation .
I have myself made several trials of the same sort with gas prepared from formate of soda exactly as for weighing .
The results were not so concordant as I had hoped , but the amount of water collected was even less than that given by Dr. Scott .
Indeed , I do not regard as proved the presence of hydrogen at all in the gas that I have employed .
Anhydride .
This was prepared from acid and marble , and after passing a .
charged with a solution of carboIlate of soda , was dried by phosphoric anhydride .
Previous to use , the acid was caused to boil for some time by the passage of hydrochloric acid vapour from a flask containing another charge of the acid .
In a second set of experiments the marble was replaced by a solution of carbonate of soda .
There is no appreciable difference between the results obtained in the two ways ; and the mean , corrected for the errors of weights and for the shrinkage of the globe when exhausted , is responding to for oxygen .
The temperature at which the globe was charged was C. , and actual that of the manometric gauge at about , reduction being made to by the use of Boyls 's law .
From the former paper it appears that the actual height of the mercury column at is mm. Nitrous Oxide .
In preliminary experiments the gas was prepared in the Iaboratory , at as low a temperature as possible , from nibrate of ammonia , or was drawn .
from the iron bottles in it is commercially supplied .
The purification was by passage over potash and oric anhydridc .
Unless special precautions are taken the gas so ained is ten or more milligrams too light , from admixture with * ' Chem. Soc. Tlans .
, ' 1897 , p. 564 .
One obstacle was the difficulty of -oxidising the copper reduced bonic oxide .
I have never encountered this difliculty after reduction ydrogen .
In Mr. Bichards ' wolk the gas in imperfectly dried condition trented ith hot platinum black .
Is it possible that the ogell T } introduced at this stage O.vide , Carbonic Anhydride , and Nitrons nitrogen .
In case of the commercial supply , a better result obtained by cing the bottles in an lnverted position so as to draw from the liqnid rather than the gaseous porbion .
Higher and more consistent resuIts were rived at from gas which had been specially treated .
In consequence of the relativ solubility of nitrous oxide in water , the gas held in solution aftel prolonged agitation of the liquid with ] inlpure gas from any supply , will a much ished proportion of nitrogen .
To out this method on scale , a large flask mounted on an pparatus in connection with the lathe so that it could bc vigorously .
After the dissolved air had been suificiently expelled by preliminary passage of , the water was cooled to nenr C. and violently shaken for a considerable time the gas was iu excess .
The nitrous oxide thus purified was expclled from solution by heat , and was used to fill the globe the usual manncr .
For compal.ison with the results so obtained , as purified in anothel nner was also examined .
A small iron bottle , fully charged the commercial material , was cooled in salt and ice and allowed somewhat suddenly to blow off half its contents .
The residne from the bottle one other position was employed for th hings .
Nitrous .
Aug. xpclled f . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
- . . . . . . . . . . .
19 osidue after blow off , valve 21 , , , , valve upwards . .
valve downwards \ldquo ; AIcan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
mean value may be taken to represen the corrected the which fills the globe at C. and at the pressure of the , corresponding to for oxygen .
of the objects I had in view in the denslty of nitrous oxide to obtain , if it were possible , evidence as the atomic weight of llitrogel .
It may be remembered that obscrvations upon the dellbity of nitrogen , as distiuguished from the atnlocontaining argon which , until recently , been nfoundod with pure to the that the detlSlties oxygcn and were as 16 : , thus there the of might be 14 in placc of as generally received .
mical evidonce upon which ths llumbor rests is very , and it that a direct *Rnyleigh and Ramsay , ' Phil. Trans , p. 190 , 180 208 On the Densities of Ccxrbonic Oxide , son of of nitrous oxide and of its contained nitrogen be of value .
A suitable vessel would be filled , nnder known conditions , with the nitrous oxide , which would then be submitted to the action of a splral of copper or iron wire rendered incand an escent by electric current .
When all oxygen was removed th residual wouId be measured , from which the ratio of uivalents could readily be deduced .
The fact thab the residual would possess nearJy the same voIume as the nitrous oxide which it derived would present cel.tain experimental advanta If indeed the atomic weighls were really as 14 : 16 , the ratio volumes , after and before operations , would be given by whence and 22996 being the relative weights of nitrous oxide and of nitrogen which ( at C. and at the pressure of the ) occupy the same volume .
The integral numbers for the atomic weights would thus correspond to an expansion , after chemical reduction , of about one-half per cent. .
Bnt in practicaI operation the method lost most of its apparent .
It was found that copper became unmanageable ab a temperature sufficiently high for the purpose , and recourse was had to iron .
Coils of iron suitably prepared and supported could be adequately heated by the rent from a dynamo without twisting hopelessly out of shape ; but the use of iron leads to fresh difficulties .
The emission of carbonic oxide from the iron heated in vacuum continues for a very long time , and the attempt to get rid of this gas by preliminary treatment had to be ) andoned .
By final addition of a small quantity of oxygen ( 01 ) by heating some anate of potash sealed up in one of the ] eating tubes ) the CO could be oxidised to , and with any , be absorbed lump of potash placed beforehand in the working vessel .
To rid of superfluous oxygen , a coil of incandescent copper had then to be invoked , and thus the apparatus became rather complicated .
It is believed that the difficulties thus far mentioned come , but neverbheless a satisfactory concordance in final numbers was not attained .
In the present position of no results are of value which do not discriminate with certainty between 14.05 and 14:00 .
obstacle appeared to lie in a tendency of the nitrogen to pass to higher degrees of oxidation .
On more than one occasion mercury ( which formed the movable boundary of an overflo chamber ) was observed to be attacked .
Under these circumstancei , lfarmonic to .
20 1 do not hile to info further detftil ardiug the ncnts in question .
The umnl ivcs the densities of the ious g air , all obtained by the The figurc is of litlle Air frcc from and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
nospheric ) . . . .
en . . . . . . .
onic oxide . . . . . . . . . . . . .
) id . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The value ) -ined for upon the same scale was ; the esearchcs of .
Leduc and Professol Morley appear to is a Jittle too On tho of ) rmonic Analysis to heory of the Tides .
II .
the of ions.\ldquo ; By .
S. HOUGH , of 's College , Rlld Isaac Newton the iversity of bridge .
Communicated , F.R.S. Received October 27 , Deccmber ( t ) , 18 !
) ( fol rtlcl part of ) denls with sclutions of tionh .
tides symmetrical espcct to of resent part the iction of is no posed , and a ) solution is , t'ne ] of of hc occan , owovcr , iltg to the CRSG } will admit interiol and extcrior being arded as of revolution .
It is found ] , subject to this limitation , if resent n simple harmonic motion of any period nd the of sllrfacc-waves be expressible as of of the same rank but different , a linear relation .
thrce succcssive of bc deduced nilar to utained i Part I. ntion a pel.iod-equation for the Iuced , and mothod of detet.mining approximnte valucs of .
Proc , p. 148 , 1893 ; vol. , p. 340 , lS94 ; ' vol. , p. 201 ,

