877 .
] On the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
411 ?
am of Albert von Haller , by Van Stoppelaer , presented by Dr. Sharpey , '.R.S .
, were laid before the Meeting ; and after the President had read he following letter , a special vote of thanks was given to the donors of ie paintings:\#151 ; Nov. 14 , 1877 .
Dear Mr. President , \#151 ; I take leave to offer for the acceptance of the loyal Society the accompanying Portrait , painted , as appears from an ascription on the back , by C. van Stoppelaer in 1765 , and believed to be likeness of Haller .
I regret I am unable to give any history of the icture , except that M. Michel , a foreign gentleman from whom I ac-uired it , informed me that it had been for many years in the possession f his wife 's family , and was reputed to be a portrait of Haller .
The ; ate 1765 would correspond with the 57th year of Haller 's life .
I remain , Tours faithfully , Ur J. D. Hooker , P.R.S. W.Sharpey .
^he Bakerian Lecture\#151 ; " On the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures.\#151 ; Part IX .
On the latest Be-\#166 ; searches into the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the British Coal-measures , especially of the Catamites and Lepi-dodendra"\#151 ; was then delivered by W. C. Williamson , F.B.S. , , Professor of Natural History , Owens College , Manchester .
The following is an abstract:\#151 ; The first plant noticed is one of which a transverse section was igured in the lecturer 's Memoir , Part I. , under the belief that it was Mamitean .
It now proves not to be so , but is a branching non-arti-ulated plant , lacking the nodes and the longitudinal intemodal canals so baracteristic of the Calamites .
It has a large parenchymatous medulla with radiating prolongations separating the very distinctly defined wedges \gt ; \#163 ; the vascular zone .
From the peculiar shape thus given to transverse lections of the medulla the author has assigned to the plant the provisional lame of Astromyelon .
In the place of the canal of Calamites the thin medullary extremity of each vascular wedge is occupied by a few larger rod often more conspicuous vessels than those forming the rest of the vedge .
The medulla farther differs from that of Calamites in being rarely istular .
Each wedge consists of a series of regular radiating laminae of barred vessels separated by numerous medullary rays\#151 ; the latter varying ro composition from a solitary cell to numerous cells arranged in single vertical series .
Nearly all the stems and branches of this plant are found to be decorticated .
One specimen found by Mr. Butterworth is surrounded by a very thin cortex consisting only of three or four layers 'f parenchymatous cells .
Astromyelon forms another example of the 2 a 2 412 Prof. W. C. Williamson on the [ Nov. IS numerous carboniferous plants whose vascular zone grew by exogenoi additions , yet the exclusion of every modification of tissue , excej barred vessels , from the vascular laminae suggests Cryptogamic ratht than Q-ymnospermous aflinities .
Astromyelon is the only distinct type of plant left undescribed in th lecturer 's previous Memoirs ; but he has obtained a considerable amour of additional information respecting some of those previously examined Catamites.\#151 ; A description is given of a series of specimens , beginnin with very small twigs composed of parenchyma , which is only divide into pith and bark by a ring of the internodal canals characteristic o Calamites .
The medulla is continuous and not fistular .
Then folio1 others in which very slight traces of vascular tissue are seen external t each intemodal canal , and which constitute the beginnings of a corre sponding number of vascular wedges ; still higher in the series of section others are arrived at in which these vascular wedges are more fully deve loped ; the medulla has become fistular and the cortical cells are differ entiated into a coarser tissue than the medullary one .
A Calamite c much larger dimensions is then described , in which the fistular me dulla is enclosed within a large vascular cylinder , the component radiatin laminae of which are fully two inches in length .
Sections of this er ample show that the peculiar Calamitean features seen both in tram verse and tangential sections of all young specimens , and which feature are also very distinctly seen at the inner portion of the vascular zone c the specimen described , almost wholly disappear towards its periphery The bark of this example has undergone marked development and diffei entiation .
There is an inner zone of parenchyma , passing quickly into thick middle one of prismatic cells , identical with the " couche subereuse of M. Renault , or corky layer seen in Lepidodendron and Sigillaria .
Thi has obviously not been the outermost layer of the bark ; the specime had been weather-worn .
A series of additional facts are given , illustra ting the nature of what the lecturer has previously termed th*e infranodf canals , and also the structure and arrangement of the branches given oi from the nodes .
He shows that the young branches do not exhibit all th peculiar Calamitean conformation until they have emerged from thevascula zone of the parent stem ; whilst older ones develop a thick vascular zone , like and continuous with , that of the parent stem .
Hence he concludes tba the minute specimens already referred to in which the intemodal canal exist , but have few or no vascular bundles associated with them , are pro bably not branches , but young plants developed directly from spores .
The lecturer again points out the extreme improbability that two gener belonging to types so widely apart from each other as the Gymnosper mous Exogens and the Cryptogamous Equisetacese should exhibit sue !
minute organic resemblances as obviously exist between the supposititi ously separate genera Calamodendron and Calamites .
Further it is to h remembered that , notwithstanding the extreme abundance of the supposec Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
If .
] iiiisetiform Calamites in the shales of the Coal-measures , no one has yet , ,covered a single fragment retaining its internal organization that does t prove to be a so-called Calamoclendron .
He shows that the organization the latter specimens explains the minutest details of the common pressions and casts found in the shales and sandstones of the Coal-iasures ; and hence he continues to hold his previous opinion that the paration of the Carboniferous Calamites into two types is a fundamental ror , and unsupported by any justifying facts .
M. Grand'Eury having disputed the lecturer 's conclusions respecting the ructure of Asterophyllites , under the supposition that Sphenophylla have en mistaken for examples of that genus , an additional example is pub-lied , demonstrating that the long linear leaves were uninerved , and that nsequently the specimens could not possibly have been Sphenophylla , e essential characteristic of that genus being that it is multinerved .
Lepidodendron and Sigillaria.\#151 ; The lecturer notices the continued sepa-tion of these two genera by M. Grand'Eury and some other observers , id especially the unintentional misrepresentation by M. Grand'Eury of ie facts which lead the lecturer to recognize a very close relationship stween them .
The only distinction which is supposed to exist , even by il most earnest advocates , for making a Cryptogam and 'gillaria a flowering Gymnosperm , is the presence , in Sigillaria , of an iter exogenous vascular zone , in addition to the inner non-exogenous 16 seen in all the Lepidodendra .
M. Grand'Eury admits , in the most ^finite language , that in all other features these groups of plants assess exactly the same organization .
The lecturer recalls attention to 1\#169 ; fact that in the Burntisland Lepidodendron , supposed to be L. Vdthei-ianum , the exogenous zone is absent from the young twigs , but is gra-aally developed in the twigs as they expand into branches ; hence , ^cording to the Brongniartian hypothesis , the plant is a Lepidodendron i its young state , and a Sigillaria in its matured condition .
Additional lustrations are given from the stems of Lepidodendron selaginoides , the ?
ecies in which the exogenous zone is the least developed of any of the lants which possess such a zone , but which has no claim whatever , beyond s possession of an exogenous cylinder , to be regarded as a Sigillaria .
'he minute details of the structure of that zone , though feebly repressed , exhibit , nevertheless , every essential characteristic of the same one in Sigillarian stems .
These and other similar facts lead the lecturer o adhere to his previous conclusions , and to regard the as Cryptogams , representing only the highest forms of the Bepidodendroid ype of vegetation\#151 ; conclusions to which some more recent investigations 'f the Arran fossils , to be published in a future memoir , give the clearest mpport .
A very remarkable series of Lepidodendroid spores have been discovered in the TTalifax beds by Mr. Spencer and Mr. Binns .
The most abundant of these are microspores of the usual type associated with Prof. W. C. Williamson on the [ Nov. li numerous macrospores of a new form .
These are round bodies with curious projecting organ on one side surrounded by a thickened ring the spore wall , reminding the observer of the projection , with its thicken* surrounding ring , seen at the apex of the macrospores of These macrospores have their exteriors irregularly clothed with nume ous long radiating hair-like fringes , some of which are simple , othe branched twice or three times , whilst in the interior of some of the the endospermic cells are beautifully preserved .
Along with ' the Messrs. Binns and Spencer have discovered a new and very remar able Lepidostrobus .
Its almost spherical sporangia contain numeroi spores arranged in tetrasporal clusters , each cluster being imbeddt in a larger group of mother and their sister cells , which are exqu sitely preserved .
Each united cluster of four spores is about * an inch in diameter .
Whether these objects are a new and very larj species of microspore\#151 ; macrospores clustered in unusual numbers withi the same sporangium\#151 ; or whether they are merely mother cells fro ; which at a later period clusters of microspores would be developed , doubtful .
Some of these tetraspores enclose a number of minute cells .
Along with the above other smaller forms of what appear to be macr\lt ; spores have been found .
Their exterior is adorned with short trifi appendages , calling to memory the fossil Xanthidia of flint and th zygospores of some of the Desmidiese .
Some remarkable sporiferous ( ' cavities imbedded in parenchyma significantly recall the imbedde sporangia of Oph ioglossum vulgatum , whilst a very singular section of rather large hollow spherical body , composed of a single layer of houi glass-shaped cells arranged vertically to its surface , and many of which cells are prolonged into external hairs , bears no inconsiderable resemblanc to a section of a sporangiocarp of Isoetes Ferns.\#151 ; Two types of stem or petiole , not hitherto met with in Yorl shire or Lancashire , have been found recently .
One of these is from Oldham , whence it was obtained by Mr. Isaac Earnshaw .
It is a petiol differing so little from the Ohorionopteris of Corda that the lecture has included it in his provisional genus as It .
Gleichce .
The affinities of the second plant are more doubtful .
It is a cylindrice axis from Halifax , where it was found by Messrs. Spencer and Binns , t both of whom the lecturer is indebted for specimens of it .
Its most cod spicuous feature is its very large central vascular bundle , which is a cy lindrical mass of barred vessels .
The bundle is of much larger dimensions proportionate to the size of the stem , than in any Eern or Lycopodiaceou plant that has hitherto been found in the Coal-measures .
It gives ol branches almost at right angles to the main axis , and these are met wit : of all sizes , from *066 of an inch down to a mere speck .
In some respect this plant has a Lycopodiaceous aspect , especially in the size and appear ance of its central bundle .
The bark , too , consists of an inner layer of deli cate parenchyma and an outer one of coarser cells .
These two are Lepido 377 .
] Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
415 android features .
The provisional name of Rachiopteris cylindrical is as-gned to it .
Two fragments have been met with that correspond very closely with jme figured by M. Grrand'Eury as belonging to .
One of these a fragment of epidermis densely crowded with stomata ; the other is art of the transverse section of a leaf exhibiting a single row of vascular undies .
The Arran beds have furnished a very striking fragment of wood to , hich the lecturer gives the name of Lyginodendron anomalum , and which ppears to exhibit , in a most exaggerated form , the peculiarities of the ascular axis of the Lyginodendron Oldpreviously described .
Its emarkable characteristic is the enormous size of its medullary rays , which , a tangential sections of the wood , have a lenticular shape\#151 ; a contour , 'hich causes the thin vascular laminae , when seen in such sections , to orm a perfect network , the large meshes of which are occupied by the ells of the medullary rays .
The Oldham nodules frequently furnish fragments of the bark of some arge trees .
One of the most perfect of these is described , and consists )f an inner parenchyma , radiating into a very thick layer of prismatic parenchyma , and an outer one of the more common type of parenchyma , intermediate between these two latter is a very remarkable zone of meri-dem tissue where active genetic action has obviously gone on during the ife of the plant .
There thus appear to have been two parallel cylindrical tones of active growth in this bark\#151 ; one between the vascular cylinder and the innermost bark , and the other between the prismatic tissue or modified bast layer and the subepidermal parenchyma .
At the junction of the two latter tissues the tangential sections show that the prismatic cells are grouped in undulating vertical laminae , forming a network , the meshes of which are occupied by tabular parenchymatous cells which stand on their edges with their flat planes arranged tangentially to the stem .
These cells indicate an extremely active state of cell-multiplication .
There is every probability that this type of bark is Sigillarian .
Some curious little circular disks , surrounded by a ring of seven or eight yet smaller disks , are described : they are from Halifax .
Their nature being problematical , the provisional name of anomala is assigned to them .
The lecturer concludes by calling attention to the remarkable prevalence of prismatic parenchymatous cells in Calamites , Lepidodendron , Sigillaria , and Asterophylliin the medullary rays of Calamites , and especially in the middle bark of all these plants , where it has constituted a modified form of phellem or corky tissue .

