]\gt ; Prof J. S. Townsend .
[ Nov. 3 , printed Indexes of some 2150 Authors .
These cover a period of 200 years , deal more than 6150 documents preserved in 166 guard-books , the contents of which were , until now , very little known , and , accessible , were scarcely available for purposes of study .
The in Gases , the Effect of Vapour Motion oj ' Ions .
By Prof. JOHN S. Received vember Read ovember 1 1 .
In a paper published in the of the loyal Society , ' vol. p. 207 , January , 1908 , a method was given for comparing the on ions in liquids and gases .
The first set of experiments gave results in accordance with the theory , and it found that the charge on a positive ion in a gas was double that of a tive ion , the latter being equal to the on a monovalcnt ion in a liquid electrolyte .
The ratio of the obtained was The ions were produced by secondary rays emitted by a surface , and further } riments have shown that ions with double or atomic* may be produced , number of either kind on 1latnre of the secondary rays , is determined the state of the surface from which In all cases the negative ions have atomic euce between the positive and tive ions also been found .
It ill be seen from the expelin)ents to be described that the motion of a atiye ion in an electrlc held is iuflneuced to a by the sencG of water val , our in very small quantities , there no eHect with positive ions .
2 .
In set of ) eriments t were no particular attention as to state of the sulface } the secondary were ( l1en the cover off the it was facc I. The sulface of sufficient nnmber of ions ellerated in the city t. ion in ] be atomic clllll.ge .
enoting its in units then nu1nber of lnolecules in a cubic ( .entimetre of at 1nm .
1908 .
] The Charges on lons in , etc. at low pressure with a small intensity of primary rays .
Under these conditions both positive and negative ions have each one atomic careful experiment gave the values No for positive ions and No for ative ions .
Several other experiments confirmed this result .
Hence positive ions with single or double atomic can produced by the secondary rays .
Experiments were made with various surfaces in order to find more exactly the conditions under which positive ions with double the atomic charge are produced .
The simplest method obtained was to rub vaseline on the surface from which the secondary rays emanated .
A large proportion of the positive ions then have double , as is shown by the following values of No , for positive and for negatiye ions , deduced from experiments in which a very thin layer of vaseline was used .
The vaseline*absorbs the secondary rays , and a very small layer on the surface has the effect of reducing the ionisation in the gas to about one-tenth of the intensity obtained with a polished surface .
This does not affect the accuracy of the results , as it is possible to obtain any desired intensity of ionisation by the interrupter or the Similar effects were found by Prof. Perrin , ' Comptes ' vol. 124 , p. Prof. J. S. Townsend .
[ Nov. 3 , potential of the battery connected to the primary of the coil with which the Ront ray bulb was worked .
vould appear from this that positive ions with two atomic are produced by the more penetrating secondary radiation .
3 .
In order to explain the effect of slight traces of moisture on the motion of tlJe negative ions , it is necessary to refer more particularly to the theory of the experiments .
The shows the ement of the apparatus .
The primary enter the apparatus through ar , aluminium window in the brass cover ( not shown in the ) , an passing through an annular in the thick upper plate , fall on plate S. Some of the ions oenerated by the rays pass the under the electric force , and then through the aperture A into the lowe ] field .
The stl.eam of ions opens out , and the central portion falls on disc , and the rest on the , the charges and received by eacf measured accurately by a special form of induction balance .
Inter .
mediate between the ring with the aperture A and the ring were a of flat rings at equal distances apart , connected in series by high resistancef so that when is put to earth and the plate was raised to a potential there is a perfectly uniform field in the space below the rating G. disc and plate were cut from the same sheet of brass so that be no contact potential between then In the iirst form of the apparatus the was placed touching grating just below it ; afterwards placed at a centimetre below grating , as it was considered that the miby of the lower field would better secured by that arrangement .
of this however , very slight , as the same results vere obtained with both apparatus when change in distance of the di the lower plate was taken into consideration .
When a uniform stream is the aperature , the essure of the ions at any point in the field of uniform ce is iven b the , ( 1 ) an ion and the numl ) of ions per cubic kinetic cquired by an ion the force the is to Z. 1 , and when this is small }ared the ( of nslation of a of the , thon the equation 1908 .
The on Tons in , etc. holds for the ions , since the kinetic energy of translation of a given number of ions will then be equal to the energy of translation of an equal number of molecules .
In equation ( 2 ) , is the number of molecules per cubic metre in a gas at atmospheric pressure , and at temperature equal to that of the gas in the experiments .
Eliminatir ) , equation ( 1 ) becomes N. . .
( 3 ) This equation can be easily solved , and the ratio of the charge received by the disc to the whole charge be found in terms of N. Thus .
( 4 ) The function is a somewhat complicated expression when expanded in a series of Bessel 's functions , so that for of reference it is convenient to represent graphically .
The continuous curve 1 , fig. 2 , represents the values of corresponding to force which is expressed in volts per centimetre , No being taken as .
The curve corresponds to an apparatus in which the aperture A is .
iu diameter and 7 cm .
from the and disc I ) .
In order to be certain that equation ( 2 ) is satisfied , it is necessary to make experiments and see that is independent of the of the gas in the apparatus , and ( b ) that varies with the force according to equation ( 4 ) , when a definite value is to No .
The latter condition can be tested by means of the ctlrve .
These two conditions and ( b ) have been found to hold with various forces and pressures in all the experiments that have been made , except in the case of negative ions when the gas is very dry .
4 .
In order to obtain this effect , it is necessary to have the inside the cover of the apparatus or in vessels connected to the apparatns by short lengths of wide tubing .
After the has been going on for three or four days , a decrease can be observed in the ratio for ative ions with the higher forces and lower pressures of ths ) .
As the proceeds the effect becomes noticeable with the smaller forces and larger The three dotted curves , fig. 2 , represent the values of obtained experimentally after the gas had been for several weeks , and no further changes were noticeable .
The curves correspond to pressures 11 , and 5 5 mm. of the gas .
Prof. J. S. Townsend .
[ Nov. 3 , , It is remarkable thab the of ions the aperture opens out considerably when pressure is lowered ( diminishes ) , also for the values of the forces the of the stream is not much ltered 1 changing the force ( nearly constant ) .
FIG. 2 .
These results have been with ions both when the surface olished and when t thin layer of vaseline on it .
( effect has observed with 1 ) ositive ions , for which the valncs of continue to satisfy itions and ( b ) when the small alIltllllt of water vttl ) ] ) sily admitted to the ) tus it a to an a little water .
The tlios pve ions then return htGS this kind always the to } ) amount to further ittld i of ) ) 1908 .
] The on Ions in , etc. .
There is no noticeable change in the number of the ions produced by the rays when this small quantity of vapour is admitted , so that it is improbable that the process of ionisation of the molecules of the is in any way .
The experiments cannot be satisfactorily explained by supposing the to be variable and less than the atomic when the gas is dry , but it can easily be seen than an increase of the partial pressure of the ions due to the action of the force would produce results of the kind that have been observed , the charge on each negative ion equal to the atomic charge .
In all cases there must be a limit to the range of forces over .
which equation 2 ) will be satisfied .
It has beenl that the negative ions produced by the rays from molecules of a are smaller than the positive ions , and therefore their free paths longer , so that it is to be expected that the limit would be reached with a smaller force for negative ions than for positive ions .
The effects observed , however , are probably not due ether to the difference in the free paths of the kinds of ions , but may artly arise from the diffel.ence between their masses .
The velocity of translation of the ions increases under the electric force , and when collisions with molecules occur the ions do not in general lose all the energy they acquire but continue to move in all ections with increased after several collisions .
The partial pressure of the ions is in excess of that of an equal ilumber of the surrounding molecules ) the force , but the difference would quite inappreciable except when the force is large and the pressure small .
The value of the force where this effect begins to be of importance could be found by these experiments , since the partial pressure of a iven number of ions would exceed the value by a which depends on the force , so that equation ( 4 ) would no longer hold .
When is increased to the action of the force , an equation , ( 5 ) must be used to determine for substitution in equation ( 1 ) , and the differential equation for determining at any point in the field of uniform force becolnes ( 6 ) where .
is greater than unity , increasing with the electric force , and diminishing with increase of pressure of the gas , since an increase in number of collisions with molecnles diminishes the free J. S. Townsend , ' Phil. Mag June , 190 ] , p. VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; A. 2 I Prof J. S. Townsend .
[ Nov. 3 , paths and tends to equalise the energy of translation of the ions and the molecules .
The definition of the quantity .
is contained in equation ( 5 ) , it represents the ratio of the partial pressure of the ions to that of an equa ] number of molecules of the surrounding gas .
The solution of equation ( 6 ) is of the same form as that of equation ( 3 ) since does not vary from point to point in the gas , so that .
( 7 The value as given by this equation for a force is the same the ratio for a smaller force when the gas is htly moist an6 There is one simple relation that should hold between the values of the different forces and pressures which may be tested by the experimental results .
It is obvious that must depend only on Z. or , since free path is inversely proportional to the pressure of the gas , so that must be a function of .
The values of corresponding to the different forces and pressures can be found from the experiments , and it may be seen that the condition is satisfied .
If be the ratio corresponding to the force for the dry gas , the force which would give the same ratio when may be found from the continuous curve , fig. 2 , so that is easily determined .
The following table gives the values of for the different forces and pressures Thus the results ined with variations of the force and pressure bhow thal does not alter when and are changed in ] same proportion , so that the above condition satisfied .
The effects ) served with tive ions in a dry gas may therefore attributed to partial pressure which they can acquire are of small .
Since the motion of tive ions that particles larger dimensions positive ions ) , ' is scnt it llay concluded that the water } ) at ( low ur tellds to dense on the ative ions .
of ative ions was first observed 1908 .
] The on Ions in Gases , etc. in the experiments on diffusion of ions gases at atmospheric pressure .
* Prof. Zeleny also , in his experiments on the velocity of ions under an electromotive force , observed a corresponding effect .
The changes were produced by pressures of water vapour , and were comparatively small .
The effects of small traces of water vapour could not have been investigated by the methods employed in those experiments , as large volumes of gas were used .
Possibly the motion of ions in gases at high presures is not influenced by small traces of water vapour , but experiments on the velocity of ions under an electromotive force are being made to investigate the matter .
It may be seen from experiments that have made on the genesis of ions collisions that water vapour does not condense on the ative ions when they are travelling with high velocities under large forces and small pressures .
Thus , values of of the order of 50 and upwards , the negative ions in water vapour , at a of millimetres , are the same as those in dry gases , and are small compared with positive ions .
* J. S. Townsend , ' Phil. Trans vol. 193 , 1899 , p. ] .
Zeleny , ' Phil. Trans vol. 195 , 1901 , p. 193 . .
S. Townsend , ' Phil. 1903 , p. 389 ; 'Phil .
Mag 1902 , p. 8 .

