Additional Experiments and Observations on the Application of Electrical Combinations to the Preservation of the Copper Sheathing of Ships , and to other ptrposes .
By Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. .
Read June 17 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 242 .
] Since his former communication the President has had an opportu- .
nity of prosecuting his researches upon the above subjects , upon an extended scale , and with results perfectly conclusive and satisfactoryHe found that sheets of copper defended by from one 100th to one : 150th part of zinc or iron , exposed for many weeks to the full flow of the tide in Portsmouth harbour , suffered no corrosion , .
and that , even one 1000th part of cast iron exerted great protecting influence .
Boats and the sides of ships protected in this way were also similarly preserved .
Of the different protecting metals cast iron is most convenient , and the plumbaginous substance formed upon it does not impede the electrical action .
ThePresident formerly anticipated the deposition of earthy substances upon the negative copper , and this he now found to take place upon sheets of copper exposed about four months to seawater , and defended by from one 50th to one 80th their surface of zinc and iron .
They became coated with carbonate of lime and magnesia ; but this effect is easily prevented by duly diminishing the proportion of the protecting metal , so as to prevent the excess of negative power in the copper , which then remains bright and clean .
214 ' The author observes , that many singular facts have occurred in the course of his researches , some of which bear upon general science .
Weak solutions of salt act strongly upon copper , but strong ones do not affect it , apparently because they contain little air , the oxygen of which seems necessary to give the electro-positive power to these menstrua ; upon the same principle , alkaline solutions and limewater prevent the action of sea-water on copper , having in themselves the positive electrical energy which renders the copper negative .
The author concludes this paper with some further applications of electro-chemical theory to the subject of it , and refers to the principles developed , as suggesting means of preserving instruments of brass and of steel , by iron and by zinc , -a circumstance already taken advantage of by Mr. Pepys , in enclosing delicate cutting instruments in handles or cases lined with zinc .

