5 .
" Second Appendix to a paper on the Variations of the Acidity of the Urine in Health .
" By Henry Bence Jones , M.D. , F.R.S. In a previous paper and appendix , the effect of different diets , of sulphuric and tartaric acids , of caustic potash and tartrate of potash on the acidity of the urine was traced .
In this appendix tartrate and carbonate of ammonia are the substances whose influence is determined , the object being to examine the comparative effect of fixed and volatile alkalies .
The first day two drachms of tartrate of ammonia were taken in distilled water , the second day 288 grains were taken , and the third day 177 grains .
Comparative experiments were made when no tartrate of ammonia was taken ; the result was that tartrate of ammonia caused no perceptible diminution of the acidity of the urine .
The difference between tartrate of ammonia and tartrate of potash may be shortly stated thus : two drachms of tartrate of potash made the urine alkaline in thirty-five minutes after it was taken , whilst three drachms of tartrate of ammonia produced no perceptible effect on the acidity of the urine .
The sesquicarbonate of pharmacy was then tried .
The first day 18 grains were taken dissolved in distilled water , the second day 40 grains , the third day 80 grains .
Comparative experiments were made without the volatile alkali , and it was found that in these doses carbonate of ammonia did not diminish the acidity of the urine ; on the contrary , the acidity was higher than usual , and it was increased for twenty-four hours after the volatile alkali was taken .
Further experiments were made with 80 grains of carbonate of ammonia on two different days : no diminution of the acidity of the urine was produced on either day .
The first day the quantity of urine was much increased , and thus probably an increase in the acidity of the urine was not evident .
The second day on which the carbonate of ammonia was talen the increase in the acidity of the urine was perceptible .
Thus the effect of volatile alkali on the acidity of the urine is totally distinct from the effect of fixed alkali ; and the author considers , that by determining the variations of the nitrates in the urine , the cause of this difference will be discovered ,

