II .
" Further Observations on the Anatomy and Physiology of Nautilus .
" By JOHN D. MACDONALD , Esq. , Assistant Surgeon R.N. Communicated by Captain DENHAM , R.N. , F.R.S. Received January 13 , 1857 .
Both Professors Owen and Valenciennes noticed that the hollow subocular process of their specimens of Nautilus Pompilius was not tentaculiferous , and I may be permitted to say that this was also true of several examples of Nautilus Pompilius , and one of N. macromphalus , examined by me .
But there is still another matter worthy of remark with reference to this process , namely , that its cavity may be traced downwards , inwards , and a little forwards , to within about the twentieth of an inch of the auditory capsule ; indeed it would appear as though provision had been made for the entrance of sonorous waves through a rudimentary external ear .
There can be little doubt that the eye itself is a modified tentacular sheath , so fashioned and endowed as to become the seat of the special sense of vision ; but the subserviency of such a part to the faculty of hearing is much more obviously seen in the subocular process just noticed , which holds an intermediate position between the organ of vision and the tentaculiferous sheaths protecting the proper organs of touch .
In a figure which accompanies this communication , the auditory sac is exposed by an incision made in the groove between the funnellobe and the base of the tentacular sheaths .
The subocular process is slit open to the bottom of its cavity , so as to show its termination in close proximity to the ear-sac .
The interior of the tube is lined with a glandular membrane thrown into small folds , disposed longitudinally , but the exterior of the process is quite smooth like the rest of the integument .
I have often had some little difficulty in detecting the otolithes or otoconia , as the case may have been , in gasteropods long immersed in spirits or other preservative fluids ; but in a specimen of N. Pompilius , kept for many months in strong gin , although the soft parts were far from being well preserved , I was enabled at the first attempt to remove the contents of the auditory sacs , and the minute elliptical otoconial particles , identical in character with those of N. macromphalus , were very distinctly seen under the microscope .
In a former paper , I first noticed my discovery of simple auditory capsules in , as I then supposed , the N. umbilicatus ; but I find that I have incorrectly named my specimen , for on comparing the shell with the drawings of the several existing Nautili given in Sowerby 's 'Thesaurus Conchyliorum , ' it agreed exactly with the figure of N. macromphalus .
I am indebted to my friend Mr. S. Stutchbnry for the perusal of the work referred to , and my error is sufficiently accounted for by the scantiness of my own library .
With reference to the action of the great lateral muscles of Nautilus , the following ideas have suggested themselves to my mind .
As though preparatory to the complete separation of the body of the Cephalopod from the shell , which is usually present in the lower genera , the fasciculi composing the lateral muscles in Nautilus do not perforate the mantle , and therefore cannot be directly fixed into the shell ; they are , however , connected with it through the medium of thin filmy layers of a corneous texture , which frequently remain attached to the shell after the animal has been removed .
The feeble hold of those muscles , even in a very recent state , is thus readily accounted for .
Indeed , it is highly probable that the fixity of the body of Nautilus during the inhalation and forcible ejection of the respiratory currents is effected by the shell-muscles reacting upon one another , on the principle of a spring purchase , rather than by simple traction , as illustrated by the withdrawal of a gasteropod within its retreat , or the closure of the valves of a conchifer by the adductor muscles .
This view , which is supported by the foregoing facts , has its principal basis in the line of direction of the shell-muscles , and the angle at which they meet one another , at the root of the funnel-lobe ; for the outer extremity of each being fixed , it follows that the first effect of the contraction of the muscular fibres would be to increase the angle just noticed ; and this cannot possibly be accomplished , according to the recognized laws of muscular action , without tending to throw apart the points of origin , or in other words , exerting outward pressure against the internal wall of the shell , and thus , as it were , jamming the occupant tightly in its cell .
The action of the great lateral muscles of Nautilus here supposed , affords a remarkable contrast with the mode in which the posterior expanded arms of Argonauta embrace the exterior of its shell , particularly during the ejection of the expiratory current ; while the withdrawal of the gasteropod into its abode , by the contraction of a veritable retractor , exhibits the exertion of muscular force in a very different direction .
In regard to the supposition that Nautilus macromphalus is the male of N. Pompilius , I may remark , that , besides my own specimen of the former , which proved to be a female , another , in very excellent condition , lately deposited in the Sydney Museum , is of the same sex .

