]\gt ; Tloe Parent of Actinium .
ts numerous family of disintegration products , which are quite as well known those of radium and of thorium , and existence of which establish zyond all doubt the claim of actinium to be considered a new radio-element .
earlier attempts at the chemical and radioactive characterisation of xctinium are of little present significance , for the doubt remains as to how they refer to actinium itself rather than to its products , radioactinium actinium-X , or even to ionium , with which the earlier preparations were undoubtedly admixed .
Nothing can ) said definitely about its period , xcept that it must be at least of the order of a decade , but 1nay be almost indefinitely longer .
The observations by Mme .
Curie as to a marked decay )ccurring in the -radiation of an old } ) reparation of actiniu1n , to the extent some 10 per cent. in three years , have not unfortunately been completed confirmed .
They indicated a period of only some years for this alement , which it is difficult to accept , as in ; case one would have expected evidence of the production of ctinium t have been obtained fairly asily .
The researches of Boltwood* on the relative proportions of the total -activity of uranium minerals were the first to throw light on the genetic relations of actinium .
The proportionality between the ntities of uranium actinium which he found , and which has been confirmed by others , indicated that uramum must be the ultimate parent of actinium as well as il of radium .
But of the total a.activity of the mineral only some 6 per cent. was contributed by the whole actinium series , whereas the radium series ( ; ontributes some 65 per cent. , and the uranium and iouiun ] th remaining per cent. It was pointed out by Rutherford in 1906 that on this account $ctinium could not be intermediate luember of the uranium-radiumpolonium disintegration series , for in this case the ploportion of the -radiabion contributed by its products would be somewhat greater than that : : ' nntributed by the radium series .
He concluded that it was not a lineal lescendant of uranium in the same sense as radium is , but was derived from ; ' uranium in much less amount than the of the radium series .
To ::1 ccount for the simultaneous production of products in different proporions he suggested that , in the rearrangement of the parts of the atom after : the expulsion of the -particle , more than one fairly stable arrangement may be possible , so that two or more products would result , which , though of equal atomic mass , would exhibit diff'erences in chemical prop erties and be : capable of separating from one another , but which would not necessarily be formed in equal amounts .
* B. Boltwood , 'Amer .
J. Sci IV , vol. 20- , p. 269 ( 1908 ) .
: Radioactive , pp. shown bbho .
The Parent of Actinium .
of bright yellow sublimate was so obtained , which , very surprisingly , was found to be free from uranium and to consist mainly of lead chloride .
The absence of uranium was surprising , as uranium oxide had been found to sublime at much lower temperature than here , and the point is under further investigation .
A small part of the sublimate could not be made to dissolve and was 1 : mounted separately on a copper .
It weighed , and constitutes Preparation III C. The lead from the solution was precipitated with sulphuric acid and the rale precipitated by ammonia in two fractions .
I. : Both were dried on copper trays , the first precipitate , III , weighed , and the second , IIIA , weighed , the date of preparation being December 14 , 1915 .
Thus from .
of Indian pitchblende three preparations were obtained by subhmation in carbon tetrachloride vapour , the I and at below visible red-heat for 22 and 90 hours respectively , and III at a very much highel : temperature .
IIethod of Testing for Presence of The preparations were kept in a desiccator , and tests for the presence of actinium carried out at intervals .
Owing to the exigencies of the time , the intervals elapsing between the tests were rather irregular , and in one case over a year elapsed between successive tests .
The preparation covered with a metal plate , by a rubber or mica washer and connected to the negative pole , the plate being connected with the positive pole of the .
220 V. direct current mains .
Equilibrium for the actinium active deposit is attained practically in four or five hours , and the exposure was usually overnight .
In a few cases of shorter exposure the necessary correction was supplied from the table of the decay of the actinium active deposit given in Makower and Geiger 's 'Practical Measurements in Radioactivity , ' p. 147 .
; After exposure the plate was removed as quickly as possible to a simple -ray electroscope , and readings as soon as possible after the disturbance caused by the opening of the electroscope had subsided and continued for four and five hours .
The decay curve over this period was plotted and the constant determined from the curve .
If the activity is due to actinium the activity decays dxponentially , \mdash ; after an initial somewhat slower rate of decay extending over the first few minutes caused by actinium-C of period minutes , \mdash ; with the period of actinium-B , 51 minutes .
The character of curve shows at once whether it is due to actinium , for although the period of radium-B , minutes , is not very greatly different from that of actinium-B , the active deposit could possibly Messrs. F. Soddy and J. A. Cranston .
without knowing anything as to the period of -tantalum ; this can be done if Preparation II contains the whole of the eka-tantalum origina.lly in the mineral , and as none can be .
detected in the other preparations it , this may be provisionally assumed .
Then the of the above equations is equal to and may be replaced by , where is the equilibrium quantity of actinium-X in 470 .
of the original mineral .
After transient equilibrium is reached or days .
( 2 ) The period of actinium is thus given by the ratio between the actinium-X present in the 470 .
of mineral , and that in the preparation separated from it , multiplied by the age of the preparation less 45 days .
Provisional Determination of the Period of Actinium .
What is therefore needed is to compare the actinium active deposit , now given by Preparation II , with that given by a known weight of the Indian pitchblende under the same conditions .
The proportion of the emanation generated in the preparation contributing to the measurements of the active deposit in fig. 3 was quite unknown , and , owing to the very short period , cannot even be guessed .
The problem to be solved is a difficult one , and although , in the following attempt , the estimate of the period arrived at is considered a probable one on the specified theoretical assumptions made , it must not be regarded as entirely free from the possibility of serious experimental error .
But it seemed to be worth while making the attempt at the present stage , even at the risk which , unfortunately , has actually been incurred , of interrupting irrevocably the sequence of observations on the growth of actinium in this preparation , and possibly losing some of the eka-tantalum it contains .
The preparation was found , on chemical examination , to be , as was to be expected , a very heterogeneous material .
It appeared to consist principally of lead and uranium chloride , and could not be got completely into solution in the small volume of water that had to be used for the test .
In the first direct comparison with pitchblende , the material was transferred to a weighing bottle , in the stopper of which tubes for leading through a current of gas were fused .
The YolAne of the bottle was 17 .
A little pure nitric acid was added , and most of it evaporated off , then water , making a final volume of 8 .
Solution was only partial , and lead chloride crystallised out on cooling .
In the test there was a considerable amount of solid with the solution .
For the comparison standard , 1 .
of the original pitchblende in nitric acid solution was made up to the same volume in a precisely similar weighing bottle .

