257 1895 .
] On the Vertebral Column of Amphibia , Sfc .
chlorine at atmospheric pressure .
The terminals were then connected to the electrodes of a battery giving a potential difference of 1,200 volts , but not the slightest movement of the drop of acid could be detected .
I wish to acknowledge the help I have received in making the preceding experiment from my assistant , Mr. E. Everett .
X. " On the Evolution of the Vertebral Column of Amphibia and Amniota .
" By Hans GtADOW , M.A. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received June 20 , X895 .
( Abstract .
) The key to the solution of the composition of the vertebral column is given by the metameric repetition of the four pairs of symmetrically arranged cartilaginous elements , the origin of which we have traced in Fishes , namely\#151 ; One pair of basidorsalia .
One pair of basiventralia ( with its lateral outgrowths = ribs or pleurapophyses , and haemal , ventral outgrowths = haemal arches , chevrons , wedge-bones , haemapophyses ) .
One pair of interdorsalia .
One pair of interventralia .
The first of these four pairs is always present and forms the neural arch .
Of the other three pairs any one may be suppressed , sometimes even two in the same skleromere .
The vertebrae of the Amphibia and Amniota possess only archcentra , because the chordal sheath takes no share in their formation .
According to the composition of these arco-genous centra or bodies we distinguish the following lines of evolution :\#151 ; I. Earliest primitive condition .
All the four pairs of arcualia are present:\#151 ; 1 .
Either as separate pieces , of which the interventralia are the smallest , e.g. , Archego Larvae of Urodela .
2 .
Or the basidorsalia and basiventralia fuse together and form the middle of the vertebral body , while the inter-basalia form neutral zones of intervertebral cartilage .
Such pseudocentra are those in the tail of Urodela .
ff- The interventralia are reduced .
1 .
The other three pairs remain separate , and the interdorsalia tend to form the centrum .
( Notocentrous 258 Dr. H. Gadow .
On Evolution of the [ J one 20 , type , e.g. , trunk of Euchirosaurus , , Trinerorhachis .
' ) 2 .
The three pairs of basidorsalia , interdorsalia , and basi-ventralia co-ossify .
( Trunk vertebrae of most recent Amphibia , caudal vertebrae ( coccyx ) of Anura .
) III .
Interventralia and basiventralia are reduced .
The vertebrae consist of dorsal elements only , so-called ii epichordal " type .
( Trunk of Pip a , Xenopus , Bombinator , ) IV .
The interdorsalia are reduced .
The interventralia are enlarged and form the centrum .
( Gastrocentrous type .
) IVa .
The three remaining components ossify separately and remain separate ; the basiventralia are still large and carry most of the neural arch .
( All the vertebrae of Gricotus , the atlas of the Amniota .
) IVb .
The centrum is much enlarged , forms the whole of the " body , " and carries the neural arch ( neurocentral suture ) .
The basiventralia are much reduced and form the " intervertebral disks " or menisci , attached to the cranial end of the centrum ; when less reduced , they appear as the so-called wedge bones , " intercentra , " or chevrons .
( Trunk and tail of most Amniota .
) IVc .
The centrum and the neural arches alone constitute the vertebra .
The basiventrals are lost completely .
( Trunk of many Amniota , for instance , the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae of lizards , caudals of many mammalia and birds .
) The phylogeny of these modifications may be expressed as follows :\#151 ; I. 1 Pseudocentra .
Notocentra .
I. sr / \ / \ II IV Gastrocentra .
/ / III A. \ \A \ \B \ \C The ribs are homologous structures throughout the vertebrata .
They are lateral distal outgrowths of the original basiventralia , with which they later on form joints , and they ossify independently .
The " chevrons , " the bony arms or arches which enclose the caudal canal , are more ventral or median outgrowths of the same basiventralia and are to be called hasmapophyses .
They are possibly serially 1895.1 Vertebral Column of Amphibia and Amniota .
homologous with the visceral arches , but any attempt to homologize them with , or to consider them as distal outgrowths of the inter-ventralia , results in failure .
Ribs and hsemapophyses are not homologous structures , although both are ventral arches in a general sense .
The ribs are originally attached by their capitula , to the basi-ventralia ; the tubercular attachment to the neural arch is a secondary acquisition .
When the basiventralia are reduced , the ribs either retain their old attachment and appear henceforth as " intervertebral " organs , e.g. , in many mammalia , in the anterior cervicals of Hatteria , and in many vertebrae of Chelonia ; or they transfer their attachment backwards upon the centrum , in some cases even upon the neural arches .
The spinal nerves arise originally in a transverse level behind the basidorsalia and in front of the interdorsalia , .
, intravertebrally .
Each nerve issues behind , or through the neural arch of the vertebra to which it genetically belongs .
The first spinal nerve , when it is a N. sub-occipitalis ( although this nerve is not in all vertebrata the same serial entity ) has lost its vertebra , the latter being added to the skull , either completely , without leaving post-cranial remnants ( Amniota ) , or incompletely , and in this case the ventral arcaalia , probably the interventralia only , are added to the first vertebra as an odontoid-like process ( Urodela ) .
XI .
" Spectra from Swedish Bessemer Works .
" By C. J. Lundstrom .
Communicated by Professor Hartley , F.R.S. Received April 1 , 1895 .
[ Publication deferred .
] XII .
" Remarks on the Origin of some of the Lines and Bands observed in the Spectra from Swedish Bessemer Works .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , Royal College of Science for Ireland .
Received April 1 , 1895 .
[ Publication deferred .
] The Society adjourned over the Long Vacation to Thursday , November 21sfc .

