I. " On the Finctions of the Fwtal Liver and Intestines .
" By ROBERT JAMES LEEE , B.A. Cantab .
, Fellow of the Cambridge Philosophical Society .
Commnunicated by ROBER T LEE , M.1 ) .
Received November 1 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) After some initroductory remarks , the author observes that the intestines of the foetus , betweeni the fifth and ninith mionths of intra-uteriiie life , " contain a flocculent sul)stance of orange-pinik colour in the duodenfal portion , a slimv green substance ( the meconium ) in their lower portion .
" The nature of the former was ascertained by Dr. Prout to be highly albuminous and nutritious .
The nature of the latter , of which Dr. John Davy has given a complete analysis ( Trans. Med. Chir .
Soc. ) , is simply exerementitious .
In the intermediate portion of the intestine the substance is of intermediate character ; the more nutritive its property , the higher its position in the intestine .
" He next points out that the mesenteric glands which belong to the duodenum are most numerous , and that they diminish towards the lower portion of the intestine ; so that they are in greatest number where the intestirne contains most nutritive sulbstance .
" F lrom this examiination , " the author continues , " no further proof is required that digestion and absorptioni are performed , as Harvey believed , during feetal life .
" The origin of the albuminouis substance in the intestine was supposed by Harvey to be the liquor amnii , which he attempts to prove is swallowed by the foetus in utero .
" In the Bird , as will be seen , the origin of this albuminous substance was ascribed by John HIunter to the yelk-sac .
" In the year 1829 it was shown by Dr. Robert Lee , in a paper published in the Philosopllical Traransactions , ' On the Functions of the Fetal Liver and Intestines , ' that Harvey 's explanation was not correct , and that there is satisfactory evidenice to prove that the Liver is the source of this albuminous substance .
" In the feetal bird on the twelfth day of incubation , or later , " the liver is seen to occupy both sides of the abdomen , as in the human fretus .
The yelk-sac is seen fixed to the small intestine ; the white more than half absorbed .
The umbilical vein receives blood from the chorioni membranle , in which it has been exposed to the influence of the oxygen of the atmosphere ; it receives blood also from the yelk-sac and from the white .
So that the nature of the blood in the portal vein of the fwotal bird is both highly nuitritious and arterial in character .
" The intestines are in the same conditioni as iu the human foetus .
" The origin of the albuminous substance may be ascertained to be from the same organ , namely , from the liver .
" That John Hunter was mistaken in supposing that albumen passed through the vitelline duct ( that part of the yelk-sac which is connected with the intestine ) , is generally allowed ; and his supposition may be almost disproved by the fact that it is not possible to inject any fluid into the yelk-sac from the intestine .
Besides , I-lunter states that it passes through only at the time of hatching , which is not the case , as the initestines are full lonig before the bird is hatched .
The lacteals of the foetal bird cannot be seen .
" To take another class of animals , the Marsupialia .
The liver in the fletal kangaroo at the time of birth ( that is , in the sixth week of uterogestation ) , in the words of Professor Oweni , ' consisted of two equal and symmetrically diposed lobes ' ( Art .
' Marsupialia , ' Cyclopaed .
Anat .
and Physiology ) .
As soon , however , as the mode of life is changed and the umbilical vein closed , the liver begins to dimninish in size .
Yet there is this resemblance between a Marsupial animal five or six months old , and a human ftetus of the same age in utero , that , although the source of nutrition is different , yet the intestines are supplied with nutritive substance , and digestion proceeds in .
both cases alike , the nutritive substance in one case being derived from the placenta , in the other from the mamma of the mother kangaroo .
" From the foregoing facts certaini conclusions may be drawni .
" 1 .
With regard to the placenta .
" Since the organs of the feetal bird are in the same condition as in the human foetus , the nature of the blood supplied to them is probably the same .
If so , the umbilical vein of the human foetus contains blood highlv nutritious and arterial in character , and therefore the function of the placenta corresponds to that of the chorion membrane , yelk , and white combined ; it is in fact the means of absorption , as the veins absorb the yelk and white , and the substitute of the lung in adult life .
There is no need of lymphatic vessels in the placenta .
" 2 .
With regard to the liver .
" " That the function of this organ is to separate a highly nutritious substance from the blood of the portal vein ; and this is true both of the liver of the foetal bird and of the human fuetus .
" 3 .
rTihat this albuminous substance is not in a condition to be directly absorbed from the umbilical vein , but is elaborated and separated for absorption by the lacteal vessels .
" 4 .
That there is reason to believe that this function of the liver continues to a great extent during adult life ; for the portal vein in that state receives veinis which correspond to the umbilical vein in the fact that they proceed from the source of nutrition .
That the liver must be actively engaged after the introduction of food into the intestinal canal , and its secretion then more plentiful than at other times .
"

