VI .
" Experiments on some of the Various Circumstances influencing Cutaneous Absorption .
" By AUGUSTUS WALLER , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physiology , Queen 's College , Birmingham .
Received June 27 , 1859 .
In some former experiments*k I endeavoured to elucidate the phweniomenta of cutaneous absorption on the lower animals ( batracia ) , by immersing the hinder extremities in various solutions , and afterwards watching the period at which the absorbed substanees reached the tongue , where their presence was detected by means of some reagent applied to its surface ; as , for instance , a salt of iron , when the legs were immersed in a solution of yellow ferro-eyanide of potassium ; Prussian blue was then formed as sooni as the ferro-cyanide was brought to the tongue .
Furthermore , I was able to detect , by the aid of the microscope , the " lieux d'election , " or preference spots , where the cyanide escaped from the vessels .
On the present occasion I shall endeavour to elucidate cutaneous absorption on the higher animals , and , if possible , to give a more definite view of this funLction , by determining , by accurate measurement , the degree of rapidity , the peculiarities , &amp;c. , which it may offer in various colnditions .
A very simple mode of demonstrating the existence of cutaneous absorption is by immersing the leg of a young guinea pig , not more than half-grown , into a mixture of equal parts of chloroform and tincture of aconite .
After 15 minutes ' immersion , the part will be found insensible at the surface and extremities , and , after a short time , symptons of poisoning by aconite will supervene , viz. : nausea , efforts at vomiting , sometimes vomiting of bile , coldness of the surface and extremities , circulation very weak , laborious respiration , slight convulsive symptoms , and death .
The influence of age , or of thickening of the cuticle , is easily seen in the same way ; for , if instead of a young animal we take an adult one , we obtain no poisoning , but merely local insensibility and slight disturbance of respiration , &amp;c. Another not less instructive experiment consists in replacing the mixture of chloroform and tincture of aconite by simple tincture of aconite .
In this case , the limb may be indefinitely immersed without our obtaining either local insensibility , or death , or indeed any symptom whatever of the presen.ce of aconite in the system .
A fourth experiment , which consists in dividing the sciatic nerve , shows the influence of innervation on the funietion of absorption ; for , if performed on an adult animal , and consequently one incapable of absorbing aconite in quantity sufficient to cause death , the powers of absorption will be generally found so much augmented that the animal will be poisoned by immersion of the limb in simple tincture of aconite .
In this experiment I attribute the acceleration in the cutaneous absorption to the paralysis of the blood vessels , as in my experimeents on the sympathetic nerve , where I showed that in blood vessels the passage of the blood is completely regulated by nerves springing from the spinal cord .
When the vascular nerves are paralysed , the artery becomes greatly distended , and the blood flows faster within it .
The foot after the section of the sciatic is , on this account , more hot and red ; and for the same reasons it is easy to account for the more rapid absorption of medicinal agenits .
A fifth experiment consists in placing a ligature on the limb , in order to impede the powers of absorption of the animal .
Although the ligature does produce this result , I was rather surprised to find how much less efficient it was than is generally represented ; for , whenever the least symptoms of a toxic influence made their appearance , a ligature placed over the limb rarely stucceeded in saving the animal .
In order to obtain results more susceptible of measurement , I proceeded to substitute atropia for aconite , and to make use of the albino rat in lieu of the guinea pig .
By this means , I possessed an agent whose intervention was immediately detected by its action on the iris .
My choice of the albino rat was for the like reason , i. e. the facility which it offered for exact and easy measurement , in which respect this animal is far preferable to any other with which I am acquainted , unless we except the white mouse , which , however , is so liable to die from slight causes , that it is little adapted for most physiological experiments .
The modus operandi which I generally adopt is to immerse the limb into a small 2-drachm bottle containing sufficient of the mixture to cover the foot and part of the leg .
The strength of the solution of atropia being generally that from half a grain to one drachm of some menstruum , such as chloroform , alcohol , &amp;c. , I generally prefer simply to hold the animal during the experiment to any other mode of restraint .
By these means I am able to guard against several causes of error , such as the direct conitact of the solution with the eye or mouth , and , at the same time , avoid any unnecessary discom-fort to the animal .
Chloroform and 4tropia.-A solution of atropia in chloroform will generally be found to cause dilatation of the pupil after the foot has been immersed from two to five minutes .
The dilatation , having once commenced , is usually very rapid , and the pupil very soon attains double or treble its normal diameter , which is about I to 2a millimetre during day-time .
It is easy to recognize that this dilatatio-n is not in very simple ratio to the time occupied in its expansion , the expanision of the pupil being more nearly in proportion to the square of the time occupied than in a simple arithmetical ratio .
Immersion of one lirmib causes both pupils to dilate equally , except in some few instances , where one pupil expands much more than the other , from some constitutional peculiarity , which remains the same whichever foot be irnimersed .
Although I have never failed to obtain dilatation of the pupils by the immersion of the foot in tnis soluLtioni of atropia , yet , in some cases , it takes place more slowly than in others .
The age of the animal has , in this respect , a most marked retarding influence .
On animals only about a third growni , it will often occur at about 2 ' minutes after immersion , while in the adult it generally requires five minutes and upwards .
The local effects of immersion are redness , heat , and swelling of the foot , accompanied sometimes with extravasation from some smaller vessels , when the immersion has been prolonged for ten minutes and upward .
The sensibility of the part is likewise diminished , but in no case so as to produce insensibility .
The amount of irritation is of course variable , according to the duration of the immersion .
It is , however , important to remark that full dilatation of the pupils may be obtained without any symptons beyond those of a temporary active vascularization of the part , which quickly disappears when the irritating cause is removed , and which presents nio more active symptoms than those produced by neuro-paralysis of the vessels after section of the sciatic nerve .
If instead of immersing the limb as above , we merely plunge it for a moment in the solution , we likewise may have dilatation of the pupil , but more slowly .
The same effects are obtained even although the limb be washed on its withdrawal from the solution , which would lead to the inference that the effect in that case is owing to absorption of the atropia , at all events beneath the cuticle .
In the case of a solution of atropia in turpentine , a still more curious effect is observed , viz. that during immersion in the liquid the pupil scarcely , if at all , dilates ; whereas , immediately after the removal of the limb , the dilatation commelnces .
Dilatation of the pupils will generally persist from twenty-four to thirty-six hours , and the returni to the normal size is very gradual .
In some cases the pupil may be affected after an immersion of nine miniutes , the dilatation reaching three millimetres ; while in others , only a very slight influence is obtained on the pupil after an immersion of from twelve to fifteen minutes .
If the limb is them removed from the solution , the pupil dilates to its maximum in a few minlutes .
After two or three minutes ' immersion , the animal shows signs of considerable pain .
Much inflammation of the part follows the action of this solution , which is followed by oedema .
When we immerse , the tail of the animal instead of its foot , absorption takes place much more slowly , dilatation of the pupil being produced only after the lapse of about twenty minutes .
Atropia and 41cohol.-If we substitute alcohol instead of chloroform as a solvent , we find that absorption is extremely slow .
Instead of obtaining dilatation of the pupils in two or three minutes , we find that an immersion of twenty to thirty minutes in the alcoholic solution will only produce very slight effects .
At the same time the local irritationi is much less than that caused by chloroform .
Alcohol of various strength , from proof spirit upwards , had the same result as a solvent .
Atropia in water , with the addition of sujicient acetic acidjfor its solution.-The absorption of atropia in this state is very slow , thirty minutes ' immersion frequently producing no dilatation of the pupils .
Dilatation is then promoted by removal of the limb from the solution .
Watery extract of Belladonna.-When rubbed over the leg and tail , this substance was not found , after the lapse of an hour , to produce any dilatation of the pupil .
Tincture of belladonna , with half its quantity of chloroform , produced dilatation at the end of fifteen minutes .
The part was found oln removal to be completely insensible , and considerably swollen from ( edema , which lasted for several days .
Atropia with strong alcohol and amnmonia produced dilatation of the pupil after twenty-five minutes ' immersion .
In this case , the ammonia was added for the purpose of ascertaining how far irritation of the part was conducive to absorption .
Slight vesication was the consequence of the presence of ammonia .
The acceleration of the absorption was very slight , as the solution produced no dilatation until after twenty-four minutes ' immersion .
Absorption of Morphia.-The foot of a young rat at one-third of its growth was immersed in a solution consisting of half a grain of acetate of morphia in twenty drops of alcohol and one drachm of chloroform .
In five minutes the pupils gradually dilated to the maximum ; the limb was then withdrawn ; foot hot , red , and rather swollen .
Irritation of the skiii caused no cry , the .
animal merely withdrawing the part .
Somnolency existed , from which any noise aroused it , but only for a moment .
When placed on its back , the animal remained in that position .
Respiration accelerated .
Vision when roused very imperfect , as was shown by its falling off the table , The pupils continued fully dilated , the iris being reduced to an almost imperceptible circle , the dilatation exceeding that which I have beeni able to attain even with atropia .
I will not dwell more fully at present on this last interesting fact , which is opposed to what we generally meet with in the administration of morphia .
Twelve hours after , pupils normal , animal quite well .
Stryclnia and Chloroform.-After three minutes ' immersion of foot , dilatation of pupils ensued .
After five minutes , the immersed limb was very sensitive , apparently more so than normal .
Limb removed from solution : spasms about the throat now appeared , which were rapidly succeeded by stiffness of the trunk , increasing into tetanic spasms .
Death , two minutes after removal .
Strychnia and Alcohol.-Foot immersed in a solution of alcohol and strychnia for upwards of thirty-five minutes ; no symptoms of strychnine poisoning .
Removed from solution and washed .
Twelve hours later , no dilatation nor contraction of pupils .
The above observations evidently show that medicinal substances may be very rapidly absorbed into the circulation under certain circumstances , among which , the most importanit is the choice of the menstruum in which they are dissolved .
It remains for us to examine into the effect of temperature , inflammation , neuro-vascular paralysis , &amp;c. , on absorption .
But , what is of still more importance , we have to see how far these facts are applicable to man in health and disease .
Meanwhile , I take this opportunlity to state that a remarkable uLniformity exists between cutaneous absorption in man and in the lower animals , and I believe that the application of these facts to practical medicine promises to be very importanit and extensive .

