]\gt ; 1878 .
] Mr. H. on Tlnjrmal of Iron .
109 Febrna ) Sir HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The :\mdash ; I. ' On tho the of Iron tcel c by , By HERBERT TOMLINPhilosoph King 's .
Connnunicated by Professor STOKES , .
Roy .
Soc. December 17 , 1877 .
The writer has , for several mollths , been in experimenting on the alteration of the electrical and conductivity of iroll and steel , oduced by nctism , the intcntion of determining such alteration in .
But as , beforc the complete determination of the data sufficient for the purpose , considerable time must elapse , he old venture to offer to the Society , in preliminary notc , some results which have already been obtained by him .
In these experiments , the apparatus chiefly employed to magnetism consisted of an net , with soft iron cores , 1 inch in diameter inches in length , surrounded by cotton-covered copper wire , , th of an inch meter , a tance of nearly 1 ohm , and a coil constructed as :\mdash ; a thin tube of polished tin , inch internal diameter and inches , was covered with vulcanised caoutchouc to a depth of of an inch , and on this was wound 3 .
of cotton-covered copper wire , of an diameter , followed by 3 lbs. of wire , th of an inch in diameter .
Inside the first tube was placed a second , 1 inch internal diameter , connected by ebonite with the first at the two ends , the second tube being concentric with the first , of the same length , so that , between the tube and the outer , should be interposed a layer of air nearly of an inch in ness .
This was employed to ) vent the ] ) from the netising coil the placed inside ; also , to prcvent ingress ' cgress of hcat ; the b , ars used with .
roil were covcred with nised Coutchouc , so they lay with their axes coinciding lvith the axis of the coil .
To meftbure the beat collducted along the bars two scts of thermolverc constructed .
The first made up of two smalI strips of ] ) long and inch broad , of bmall thickness .
To these was soldered tbout 1 foot of silk-covered th of au inch ill diameter , ) } ) also connected Mr. H. Tomlinson on Thermal [ Feb. 21 , with galvanometer by copper wires , well covered with caoutchouc , one end of each being soldered to the copper , so that either one or both the copper strips with the soldcred German-silver wires could be employed as a thermo-element .
In case it was found convenient to use only one of these , the other was kept well covered with f ; awdust .
These elements will be called the G. S. elements .
The second consisbed of two small thermo-piles , each of 12 elements , of antimony and bismuth , and were each fitted into india-rubber tubes , so that they could be inserted into small wooden boxes , containing water , so as to fit water-tight .
Sometimes these , like the G. S. elements , were used separately ; at others , were made to neutralise each others effect on the galvanometer .
With these elements , a delicate Thomson 's reflecting galvanometer , having a resistance of 2 ohms , was employed , the scale being placed about 6 feet from the mirror of the needle .
In the circuit of the gnetising current , a tangent galvanometer was placed , needle of which was suspended by a very fine platinum wire , attached to a graduated torsion circle .
The two thick copper wires hich conveyed thecurl.ent were each 27 centimctr.es in diameter and 14 inches A magnetometer was also employed to test the netism i parted , but , as the readings not be given in this paper , no description of the instrument is necessary .
1to heat one of the bars two large Leslie 's cubes were employed , having two apertul.es projecting about 2 inches into the interior of the cubes .
The apertures in one cube were inch square and placed in one side of the cube , about 3 inches apart from each other , and half way up the side .
In the other cube the apertures were circular , and inch in diameter , and placed in the centres of opposite sides of the cube .
Into these cubes bars of square cTnd circular sec.tion were respcctively inserted , and the cubes was ised to C. The first iment was made on a soft iron bar , inch square in section .
The bar was into the Leslie 's cube with square aperture , filled with boiling water , and into the other aperture was inserted a brass bar of the same section .
The length of the iron bar was about 10 inches , 'lnd of the one , 18 inches .
One of the G. S. elements was fastened on to the iron bar , and the other to the brass , by caoutchouc hands , the clenlents ] ated from the bars by thin paper .
The G. S. were made to very nearly counteract each others effect by sliding or other of them up and down bars until the heat conducted by the bars the elements was in both the same as ncarly possible .
Undernettth bar plnced the -magnet , with a piece cf dboard 1 on the upper extrelnities of the soft iroll corcs , so thab the cores were about 3 milli1878 .
] of Iron and Steel caused by fagnetism .
111 metres from the iron ; the bar was also propped by a wooden support at the other end .
preliminary experiment had been made for the purpose of ining whether the heat radiated from the guet would affect the thermo elements to aIly appreciable extent , and tl1is nob found to be the case .
The Vftter in cubc kcpt boiling for about nine hours , and after time had elapsed it was ascertained that the flow of from one part of the bnrs to another the loss from radiation , and the on scale stationary .
( It should be obsorved , as it was impossible to cause one thermo-elcment exactly to neutralisc the slight use of the sting magneG of the galvanometer was lllade to the light near zero of scale .
) The current from single bichromate ccll was now sent through the coil of .
In a few llloments the spot of light began to move slowly across the scnle in direction indicating the flow of hcat the iroll bar }llecked , and in about fifteen minutes a deflection of nbout divisions of the scale ined ; cul.rent of the cell then stopped , when the slowly to return , finally settled in apparently the po , ition which it held beforc .
the currcnt the coil .
This experiment was repeated sevcral times on the , and on other dvays 1esulb :ards directio ] ] , namely , a diminution of the flow of heat from lono itudinalb magnetisation .
As it was , hmvever , that might when in action perhaps an appa-rent ution of flow of heat by htly d. the its the ture , every precaution had been used to prevcnb ance of , the bnr in tho next sct of experimenls was securely soldered into the cube , and tcsted as .
Here , , some five or six triads the samo esult , and seemed to , nlost collclusively , thnt the conductivity uf boft iron is by As the lncthod of observation , howevcr , tcdious no idea of ttmount of alteration of conductivity , other } ) adopted .
A of olt , and milli , to two pieces of , AB , , of the samo and thickllt'SS .
112 Mr. H. Tomlinson on Conductivity Feb. AB was 2 inches long and CD 1 inch .
The pieoe AB was also soldered to another piece of brass , having a section inch square , and length about 12 inches .
The whole was placed inside a wooden box , 2 feet long , 1 foot wide , and 2 feet high , lined on the outside with tinfoil .
AE passed through a circular hole , 2 inches in diameter , in the middle of one end of the box , and through two corresponding ] holes in a double screen of sheet tin , and thence into one of the square apertures of one of the Leslie 's cubes .
The electro-magnet was underneath , and two picces of soft iron , about inches in inch in breadth , and about 2 millimetres in thickness , were placed on ends of the soft iron cores , so as to be on the same level BC , and distant from and about 2 millimetres , the pieces of iron being separated from the cores by a piece of white paper .
In some experiments the pieces of iron thus used were carefully secured to the electro-magnet by elastic straps , and , in others , by weights placed on them .
A ] ary experiment , made with the strongest current that was ultimately used with the electro-magnet , owed that neither were the iron pieces on the cores appreciably shifted on magnetising the coil , nor was the heat radiated from the coil sufficient to produce any effect on one of the G. S. elements fastened by elastic hands to the back of .
The other G. S. element was in this case buried in sawdust , with which the box was now fiJled , so as to cover completely the bars and electro magnet .
The sawdust also filled the space between AB and CD , and the small portion of the brass bar which was between the box and the Leslie cube , was covered with caoutchouc and cotton wool .
The lid of the box was no put on , and some time allowed to elapse until the light remained steady on the scale .
Boiling water was then put into the cube , and a burner placed underneath .
Very shortly the light began to move across the scale , showin that the heat had been conducted along the compound bar to the thermo element , and then the number of divisions on the scale passed over by the light was taken for each minute .
The adjusting magnet of the galvanometer had in and similar experiments to be placed very low in order that the number of divisions of the scale passed over might not exceed 60 per minute .
When the light reached one end of scale adjusting magnet was used to bring it back agttin to the other .
In these and similar experiments it was found that , after some time , either the number of divisions passed over per minute increased or diminished very slowly or else remained constant for some minutcs .
The following obscrvations were made with the specinlcn in question , the being near one end of scnlc .
The number of divisions passed over in consecutive minutes follov ( netising curreut will be called M. C.):\mdash ; 1878 .
] of Iron and Steel caused by The light was then near the other end of the scale , so the adjusting magnet was employed to bring the back again .
The set of experiments here given , the first of many , is rather an unfavoul.able one , most of them results much closer ether than those here given , and , in several instances , the flow of heat would seem perfectly steady for upwards of fifteen minutes .
The observations of the first minute in each case were taken , in order to avoid error from very slight deviations of the needles caused by the action of the electro-magnet , which howevel was placed at such a distance from the galvanometer , and in such a position as not , in most cases , to produce any such deflection , and to give time for the magnetism to produce its effect on the bar .
It has been determined , that in experiments made in this manner , 1 minute soems quite sufficient for the above-mentioned purpose .
Taking A and together , we obtain as a mean t , he number of divisions passed over in 4 minutes with the M. C. not flowing as against 130 from , with the current flowing ; again , from and with the current flowing , we obtained as against 125 , with the current not flowing , so that , in both cases , there is a ) less mean with the M. C. flowing than when it is not flowing .
The mean of this particular set of experiments would give a decrease of flow , when the bar is netised 1 , of about per cent. of the wholo for a magnetising current , a deflection of the needle of the nometer of .
The mean of all the observations for the specimcn , and for this current , gave a decrcase of flow amounting to per ccnt .
of the whole .
The eltcrne{ , was now turned through , so as to magnetise the iron transversely , and a similar set of experiments were made .
Here , ngain , the result was most conclusive , and the mean of several observations showed an increase of flow when the bar was magnetised transversely , amounting to about per cent. of the whole for the same current strength .
Thus , the decrease of lctivity in one case seems to be VOL. XXVII .
Mr. H. Tomlinson on Thermal Conductivity [ Feb. 21 , equal to the increase in the other , but it is the intention of the author to make further researches into this of the inquiry .
The batteries employed in these and subsequent experiments were slight modifications of Daniell 's batteries , which , though having a very small tance , maintained a constant current for some hours .
These batteries the writer hopes to have the honour of describing to the Society on a future occasion .
Similar experiments were next made on a piece of hard steel , of similar dimeusions to those of the iron , but the length of the brass bar , , was considerably sbortened .
The result of the experiments proved that there was a decrease of flow , amountimg to about 4 per cent. , of the whole , when the bar was etised 1tudinally with a current producing a deflection of on the tangent galvanometer , and increase of flow when magnetised by a current of transversely , aanonnting to about 3 per cent. of the whole ( unfortunately , through accident at the time , the same magnetising current as used for longitudinal magnetisation could not be employed ) .
This last result was rather unexpected , as , though Sir William Thomson has shown ( Phil. Trans. , Feb. 28 , 1856 ) that the electric conductivity of hard steel is diminished when the steel is magnetised longitudinally , some experiments of the writer in the same direction ( Proc. of Royal Society , June 17 , 1875 ) seemed to show , in the case of hard steel , bhe contrary effcct is produced , while Joule has proved ( Phil. that , while a bar of iron , or even steel is so hard that a file will just touch it , is lengthened by longitudinal magnetisation , iron under great strain , or steel so hard that a file will not touch it , is shortened .
Of course , the mere act of soldering the steel to the brass would , to a certain extent , soften the steel .
A bar of steel , therefore , of circular section , inch in diameter and about 12 inches in length , was made so hard that it couId not be touched with a file , and placed , with the usual autionS , on the poles of the electro-magnet , at a height of bout 3 millimetres the corcs of the electro-magnet , one of the G. S. elements being secured to one end and the other end inserted in a Leslie 's cube .
But here , , there was undoubtedly a decrease of conductivity , when the bar was magnetised longitudinally .
Of course , however , the merc facb of heating the bar at one end to the temperature of boiling water would tend to soften the bar , and the vriter is not quite satisfied but that it may be ascertained that , for low temperatures , the conductivity of hard steel is increased .
It is intended , therefore , to make experiments on iron and steel , at different temperatures , both high and low , with a view of definitely this point .
Some experiments were next made with the magnetising coil de 1878 .
] of and Steel caused by Alagnetism .
scribed in the inning of the paper , but the produced wele found fo bc so much less for the hard steel than when the electromagnet employed that it was found necessary to use the thermo piles , mentioned above , and instead of the compensating magnet to .
the light on to the scale to cause the two piles , as much as possible , to neutralise each others eflects .
following ements were made:\mdash ; Two bars of hard steel , , each inches inch in diameter , were soldered at each end to two copper rods , each about inches in length and inch in diameter .
One copper terminal of each rod was inserted , as in the figure , into a Leslie 's cube , , to a distance of 2 inches , and the other terminal into a small wooden box , varnished inside shcll-lac , and capable of containing about 120 cubic centimetres of water .
The bars were well covered with caoutchouc ; KK are double screens , PP the two thermo elements , so as to send their cnrrents through the galvanometer in opposite directions , the wires connecting them with each other and the galvanometer being wcll covered with -percha , and passing small holes in the sides of the boxes .
The two compound bars were thus made as exactly similar as possible , and also similarly placed , the only difference being that produced by the netising coil , , whose axis coillcided with that of the steel bar placed inside it .
The large boxes , , were wcll filled with sawdust , and the lids put on , wholc aflair left for some time , until steady on the scale .
Boiling water then poured into ) holc , , and a burner ohted underneath the cube , whilst the percure at been closed with a cork\ldquo ; the steam generated was allowed to pass throngfi a aperture at , connected by with large vosscl filled with vatcr , for the purpose of the steam .
Both the small boxes had the same tity of water placed in them , and a previous experiment had shown that so exactly was the heat conductod along the bars to in th .
H. Tomlinson on Conductivity [ Feb. 21 , boxes , that when some two hours or so had elapsed , the rise of temperature of he water in each box seemed as measured by an ordinary thermometer , marked off in degrees centigrade , to be ] the same , namely , C. But as the same experiment had shown that the pile in the box on the left of the nure was very slightly more powerful than the other , the water in the box on the right was diminished very carefully by means of a small siphon , formed of india-rubber tubing , of very bore , which was kept closed by a pinch-cock at one end , the tube passing through holes cut in the large box , through the sawdust , and through a small hole cnt in the lid of the small box , so as to dip into the water .
The little siphon was always kept charged , and , by of the -cock , any desired small quantity of water could be extracted from the box .
By this means it was fotlnd easy to make one pile so neutralise the other that a very slight use ( if any is necessary ) of the magnet was required , even when the was near its most sensitive position with respect to the galvanometer needle .
On a current through the coil , it was in a minute or so seen that the conductivity of the hard teel was diminished by the magnetisation , and the amount of diminution was roughly determined by finding the amount of water necessary to be extracted from the box to again bring the light to the same slow rate of motion ( about 2 divisions per minute ) which it had before passing metising current , and this with the iginal amount water in the box .
The decrease of flow did not amount to 1 per cent. of the whole , even with the strongest battery used ( current shown by the galvanometer , ) .
This plan was found to be successful for debermining whether there was a d-iminution or not , but not equally so for determining the amount of decrease , owing to the great difficulty in this method of quickly the light move at the same rate after magnetisation as before .
Anothcr method was therefore tried , which promises to give better results .
The figure will perhaps best explain the plan adopted for one pile completely neutralise the cffect of the other .
are the two piles .
the galvanomeber .
the of a shunt placed between the points AB , which could be varied at pleasure .
tho resistance of circuit , including the resistance of the pile .
The quantity of water was now put into each box , and pile htly more powerful than the shunt was adjusted il thr.rc little or no motion of the light on the scale .
1878 .
] of Iron and caused } ) The was then passed the coil , and the adj usted , until the piles neutralised each other .
It be readily shown that if be the units of heat imparted to the water in the two boxes in the same time , the 1iles neutralise each other .
If , then , be the diminution of flow caused by ' the diminution of shunt resistance necessary to make one neutralise the other , and tbus the percentage of diminution of flow may be determined .
A few resistance coils were very roughly ucted for use in the shunt , , and an attempt made to ascertain the actual amount of diminution of conductivity of the hard steel .
This , , appeared to be comparatively small , but as the coils used were not suitable for the purpose .
the restllt is not given .
But the writer has little reason to doubt that , with esistance coils suitable for such thermo-eIcctric experiments , hc will be able to measure , with fair accuracy , small ations of thermal condnctivity in this way .
It should be added that similar to theso made with soft iron bars , both with and without ) , but results of the experiments , of which altogethcr upwards of a dred have now been made , show that in very case the thermal conductivity of soft iron is diminished by temporary and inereased by transverse , whilst the case of steel , of Prof. M. Simpson .
Chemical Notes .
[ Feb. 21 , different degrees of hardness , at any rate , for the temperatures employed , magnetisation evidently prodnces the same kind of effect as with the soft iron .
The amount of the alteration in the case of soft iron must have at least as high as 10 per cent. , and may be greater .
The experiments which the writer has made on electrical conductivity have shown that this is also very appreciably altered by etism , at least 6 per ccnt .
, even when the was evidently not complete June , and has some reasons for believing that the amount of alteration for thermal and electrical conductivity will be found to be not very different .
He hopes , however , to thoroughly investigate the whole subject .
It should be mentioned here that Sir William Thomson ( Phil. Trans. , Feb. 28 , 1856 , ) expresses a strong opinion that the experiments of on this subject , on which he ) ' doubts have been thrown by others , would be found correct , basing his opinion on the results of his own experiments on the alteration of electrical conductivity by magnetism .
And , though the writer had some years ago made some attempts in the presenb direction ( unfortunately before pernsing Sir William Thomson 's exceedingly valuable paper ) , he cannot conclude without expressing how greatly the suggestions there thrown out have assisted him in these and other experiments .
II .
" " Chemical Notes By Dr. MAXWELL SIIIPSON , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in Queen 's College , Cork .
Received January 2 , 1878 .
On the Formation of the Chloro-Bro ?
nides of the Olcfines otloer non-saturated Chloro-bromide of Ethylene .
The first step towards the direct formation of and obher chlorobromides is , of course , the preparation of the solution of chloride of bromine .
This I endeavoured to prepare a process to that by which I had formed the chloride of iodine .
* I found , however , that in passing the chlorine into the bromine and water , a of the former is carried off in the form of vapuur .
I continued the ssage of the , neverthcless , till all the omine was dissolved and the solution assumed a faint yellow tint .
On conducting olefiaut gas into this , I obtained a very small ntity of an oily liquid , part of boiled between and Cent. Altogether , it is by * ' ' Annalen der Chcmie cxxxvi , 141 .

