Decay of the Radium Emanation when dissolved m Water .
597 angle which the axis of a projectile fired in still air makes with the tangent to the trajectory .
Attempts have been made to measure this angle photographically , but hitherto without success , and the method here indicated , though indirect , would , I think , be more likely to attain the desired result .
On the Decay of the Radium Emanation when dissolved Water .
By Richard B. Moore , B.Sc. ( Communicated by Sir William Ramsay , F.R.S. Received May 20 , \#151 ; Read June 4 , 1908 .
) The results obtained by Ramsay and Cameron* on dissolving radium emanation in water and in copper sulphate solution have made it advisable to investigate the behaviour of the emanation , when dissolved in such solvents , from a radio-active standpoint .
There are two possible explanations for the results obtained by these authors:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The one advanced by them to the effect that the a-particle is not identical with the helium atom , but that the " degradation " of the large molecule of the emanation is effected by bombardment with a-particles , the products of the degradation varying according to whether , on the one hand , the emanation is alone or mixed with other gases , or , on the other , whether it is dissolved in water or copper sulphate solution .
( 2 ) The a-particle is a helium atom under ordinary conditions , but when the emanation is dissolved in water or copper sulphate solution an a-particle of greater mass is split off from the emanation atom .
If the latter explanation be correct the disintegration products of the emanation when it is dissolved in water or copper sulphate solution ought to be different from those obtained from the emanation when alone or mixed with air .
An investigation of these disintegration products should throw light on the subject .
The present note deals with the rate of decay of the radium emanation when dissolved in water .
The emanation accumulated by 110 milligrammes of radium bromide in two days , with the accompanying oxygen and hydrogen , was collected in a gas burette over mercury .
After exploding , a small amount of water was run into the burette , and the solution of the emanation * ' Chem. Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 91 , p. 1593 , 1907 .
598 Decay of the Radium Emanation when dissolved in Water .
thus obtained , together with the slight excess of hydrogen , was transferred to a glass tube 2 inches long and 5 mm. in diameter , which had previously been exhausted .
The solution filled about five-sixths the volume of the tube .
The latter was sealed , and the decay curve of the emanation was obtained by means of the 7-rays , sheet lead being used to cut down the rays to the required amount .
The half-time period found was 3'8 days .
It may , therefore , be assumed that the emanation decays at the same rate when dissolved in water as it does in air .
The initial portion of the curve was also the same , reaching a maximum in about four hours .
As the volume of the emanation used was less than OT30 cubic millimetre and the solubility coefficient at 18 ' , as obtained by Kofler , * is 0'270 , the ratio of the volume of the emanation in the gas phase to that in the water phase would be small .
The result obtained does not point definitely to either of the two possible theories which have been mentioned .
The degradation of a portion of the emanation molecules into neon or argon atoms instead of helium atoms , would not necessarily change the time rate of decay ; on the other hand , the percentage of the emanation atoms which changed per second might be the same although the mass of the a-particle varied .
The real experimental test of the two theories lies in a comparison of the mass of the a-particles from the emanation when the latter is mixed with air , and when it is in solution .
Some work is in progress to test this point .
* ' Phys. Zeit .
, ' vol. 9 , pp. 6\#151 ; 8 , 1907 .

