]\gt ; On the Absorption of Carbonic Acid .
" " On the Absorption of Carbonic Acid.by Saliuc Solutions By J. Y. Chemist on board H.M.S. Challenger .
' Communicated by Professor A.W. WILLIAMSON , For .
Sec. R.S. Received Dccember 11 , 1873* .
In the mination of , whether it bc legarded from chemical or from a zoologic{ point of } , the determination of the tions in the mount of rbonic acid in diflerent parts of must be an object importance .
This is more especi so series of obselvations the quantity of oxygen present is cnrried out .
At the should expect to find the ntities of these gnses -ing the of partial greater depths , however , where the ater for long periods only comes in contact with water , we should expect to find the quantity of oxygen siug that of carbonic acid increasing with the amount of animal life .
The vestigation from this point of of the ater , at gleater smaller depths , presents perhaps more field of atiou than that of intermediate depths .
to 2000 thoms life is still abundant ; below this depth , hov , the amouut decreases till , at about 2800 fathoms , it is , for purposes , practically extinct .
1Ve have , then , to settle the tion of the bonic ncid latitude and itude , with depth , -ith nature of bottom , and with of atmosphere .
In order to solve these problems , it is before necessary to have a reliable method for the determination of the acid .
the discovery of a of error iu the old method , for the entiou of a new one , we indebted to Dr. Jacobscll , of .
Dr. Jacobsen found that could llot , as been till ssumed , bc thoroughly freed from its acid by mcrely in vacuo .
He found that it to boil most to drylless before the last tlaces of lbonic acid could be expelled .
pnrticularly interested in the matter , I immediately commenced a series of experiments to determine , if possible , the salt to hich s this pecuhar property .
A short of the resuIts of these experiments been published as an appeudix to Professol AVys ille Thomson 's ' Depths of the ' I purpose here to give a detailed account of the enfs p They consisted of two series\mdash ; the one , the other In the former I v-as ably assisted by Geol.ge llfacdougald , in by Mr. bert , junior assist in Professor Crum n 's * Read February 19 , 1874 .
See , p. 192 .
Dr. Andrews informs me he had observed a phcnomcnon attempting to determine the of atmosplneric in , by boiling it the Iorricellian after the mannel .
of vapom-density determinations . .
XXII .
2 eighth of the distillate , the amount of carbonic acid passed being roughly estimated by the apparent turbidity of the -water .
The object of these experiments being to find out which of a number of salin solutions had the property of retainin carbonic acid , and to ascertain roughly what length of time one must boil in order thoroughly to expel it , an accurate determination of the carbonic actually passing during the intervals would have been superfluous .
Besides these , a number of quantitative determinations were made of the amount of carbonic acid actually absorbed by different solutiollS .
The synthetical series consisted of experimen , ts for the determination of the absorption-cosfficients of two solutions\mdash ; the one of sulphate of , the other of sulphate lime .
Let us take the analytical series first .
As before remarked , it is subdivided into two sets , which we shall treat in their order .
In the one observations were made on the elimination of the carbonic acid as the distillation proceeded ; in the other an attempt made to determine how much carbonic acid , in a saline solution saturated with the gas , was actually retained or bound , or at least kept from freely exercising its properties as a gas , by the presence of the salt in the solution .
First Experiment.\mdash ; In order to have a certain standard of comparison in judging the retardation caused by salts in the escape of carbonic acid from solutions on boiling , distilled water was saturated with the gas and distilled in the mamler indicated aboye .
Durin the passage of the first eighth of distillate the gas evolution was of course abundant , during the second a perceptible quantity passed , after which no more could be detected .
It be assumed , then , that , in the experiments which followed , the carbonic acid held simply in solution by the water passes almost entirely in the first eighth part of the distillate , and that whatever passes afterwards has been retained , in some way or other , by the salt in solution .
In conducting these experiments no baryta-water was put in the receiver itself , but only in the -tube .
The ater collected was always tested with baryta-water , and with the general result that in the first fraction carbonic acid was present in mdance , while in the latter ones there was rarely a trace to be detected .
That the distillate consisting of pure water should contain not a trace of the gas , whose presence in the atmosphere above it is attested by ths precipitate Carbonic Acid Saline Solutions .
in the exif-tube , shows that , feeble prossures , the solution of rbonic acid requires considelable time for its completion .
Seco Experiment.\mdash ; A chloride-of-sodium solution containing 2 per cent. Na Cl had a strong stream of passed through it for about teJl minutes and then distilled .
) the of the second* eighth there was still a considerable quantity , during of the third a very slight trace , and after that none .
Third nent.\mdash ; A chloride-of-magnesium solutioJl containing per cent. was treated in the same way as the solution , when the whole of the passed in the first ction .
Fourth solution containing 4 per ccllt .
lfg per cent. Na Cl turated with CO. , nllon cd to stmld a closed vessel over night .
distilling , it that bonic i continued to be given off in perceptible but decreasing quantitics until the end .
Fifth this and the three follov ing ) eriments n solution containing grammes lized sulphate of guesi ( in a litre ?
) lvfts used .
Carbonic was through some of this solution about 10 minutes , and the liquid ed to stand a closed yessel night .
Ou distillation there the second fraction very little , durin the third and fourth fi.actionsdec.idedly more , during the fifth again much less , and afterv-ards , to end , slight but perceptible traces of rbonic : Experiment.\mdash ; The solution heated to boiling , and passed into it until it was cold , the hole being allowed to stand over night .
During the passage of the second , third , fomth , and fifth tions , the amount of about constant and sm .
It increased greatly during the sixth , falling fnvay { the eventh .
Seventh Experiment.\mdash ; The conditions exactly the same those of the fifth experiment ; the resuIts in the tv cases ilgrced ) ] ell with each other , the mount of gas comin off in htly nbout the middle of the operation .
In order to see if the rise of temperature consequent on ation had any thing to do -ith the phenomena mlder consideration , a thermometer ) } immersed in the boiling liquid .
It at the end of the second , third , fourth , and fifth ) ctions 1 , and \mdash ; The conditions were the samo the only that the solution stood days distillation .
In results there this peculiarity , that in the fom.thfi.action the caronic acid disappeared ogethel.ilgnin ill he fifth .
* It is in the cases no means were laken to ths Qolulion simply dissolved carbonic } to repeat in each one that the first fraction contained abundance .
21 ' 2 .
J. Y. Buchanan on the of Ninth E.xperiment.\mdash ; Sea-water from the Firth of Forth was distilled .
Here , as in the case of the sulphate of magnesia , the mount coming off increased about the middle , falling away again in the fifth fraction .
In the sixth , however , it experienced a slight increase , falling off again towards the end of the operation .
From these experiments we may conclude that , alone and in the degree of concentration in which thsy occur in the sea , the two most salts , namely chloride of esium and chloride of sodium , exercise no retarding fluence on the liberation of carbonic acid on boiling .
When mixed , however , as in the fourth experiment , they appear to have this effect .
Whether , if sufficiently diluted to represent water , they would continue to do so I was unable to ascertain , as the investigation of the sulphates occupied all the time at my disposal .
It is further evident that , in the sulphate-of-magnesia solution experimented on , we have a solution which behayes towards carbonic acid in the same way as sea-water .
Let us pass now to the second set of the analytical series\mdash ; namely , the estimation of the amount of carbonic acid retained in consequence of the presence of the salts in question .
The apparatus used WflS the same as that in the last set , contained both in the receiver and in the -tube .
Experiments were made on solutions of sulphate of magnesia , of phate of gnesia and chloride of sodium , and of sulphate of lime , to which were added some ou sea-water .
In every experiment the quantity of solution opsrated on was 300 .
The carbonic acid coming ofl was retained by -water of known strength , the remaining free baryta being afterwards determined by means of oxalic acid .
Rosolic acid was used .
to determine the point of neutralization .
The oxalic acid was rather stronger than tenth-normal ; it ined grms. in the litre , which is equivalent to grms. oarbonic acid .
1000 .
baryta-water required 3235 .
oxalic acid for neutralization .
The method of conducting the operation was as follows :Carbonic acid WftS passed through the solution until it could be assumed to be saturated .
Six to seven litres of air were then drawn through it cold , after which it was heated to boiling , and allowed to boil for from two to three minutes in a current of .
The receiver with the baryta-solution was then attached , and the distillation continued in a stream of air , until the contents of the were nearly dry .
The -water then remaining ized was titrated , and from it the amount of carbonic acid ascertained .
Experiments on sulphate-of-magnesia solution ) grammes crystallized salt per litre.\mdash ; As all were conducted in precisely the same way , it will be sufficient to givo the results in a tabular form .
The first Carbonic Acid by Saline Solutions .
three experiments made portions of one and the same solution ; for the last two a fresh solution , to appearance , in exactly the same way as the previous oue ) lvas used .
difference in the resuIts ined s the precarious nature of the combination:\mdash ; experiments ith a tion prcpared The quantity of sulphuric acid necessary for tho formation of grammes crystallized sulphate of magnesia as diluted to a litre , and pulverised carbonate of suspended in it .
Although the mixture to stand over night , shut off from the fluence of the atmosphere , the solution still .
It is well known rbonate of magnesia is difficultly soluble in cold dilute , acids .
To have heated the solution old have frustrated the object of the experiment , which , by ring nascent sulphnte of nesin tether cent carbomc { ordinary temperatures , to them the best opportunity of combining .
experiments were with a similarly prepared solution of sulphate of lime .
In this case sulphuric acid added to the water iu quantity sufficient to form , with lime , more salt than was necessnry for the production of turated solution of gypsum .
Here neutralization took place ithout difficulty , and , as might been expected , the amount of carbonic acid formed was considerably greater than in the case of the magnesia salt .
experiments made an ordinary guesia solution containing grammes crystallized salt per litre .
further experiments made } a solution containing grammes sulphate of magnesia and 20 grammes chloride of sodium per litre .
All ere conduoted in the described , and the results , re given in the ving Table .
The experiments the )rbonates of magnesia and lime were made at a considerably date than the others ; the value of 10 ater hcoIlseqnence become equivalent to 32 .
insteffi of acid .
Mr. J. .
Buchanan on the Absorption of Fivs experiments were made with sea-water taken at the end of Portobello Pier , on the Firth Forth .
In the first three it was sub- mitted immediately to the same treatment as ths saline solutions ; in the last two carbonic acid was first passed through it for some time .
As the results given in the fellowing Table are identical , it is evident that , in its natural state , the water in question was saturated with carbonic tcid in this peculiar state of tion .
Experiments on -water .
Subsequent expel'iments made at sea , on water from mid-ocean and from rious depths , have shown me that the above quantities are very muoh in excess of the quantities usually ined in -water .
From the large quantity of organic matter poured into the Forth , not far from Portobello , there must be abumdant production of carbonic in the water itself , and we have seen above the effect of bringing sulphate of lims and carbonic together in the nascent .
Sea-water , on an average , about 8 sulphate of lime in 10,000 .
A saturated solution of the same salt in distmed water contains at C. 24 parts in 10,000 .
Carbonic Acid by Saline Solutions .
489 Under the most fayouraWe circumstances , then , one would expect seaatel .
to bind about one of the quantity retained by an equal volume of sulphate-of-lime solution .
We have seen that a litre of this solution is capable of ining 0 gl.m .
, while the same of ater contained only , or considerably less than the third of that held by the snlphate of .
Iu ocean-water I have never yet found more than per litre , including both the and the half bound .
, then , in tho of lime alone , an agent capable of etai much ncid than is to exist in -ater .
Besides this there is also , at lenst , the sulphato of magnesia possessing this property .
How much it 1$ old be capable of absorbing if the bouic { presented in a nascelll state in a neutral solution ; it ould b interesting to determlne the of carbonic acid ed by a solution in hich organic matter had been allon'ed to decay .
The conclusion to be the preceding experiments is that , the carbonic acid is ed by the prebence of sulphates , the will more sily boiled out if } get qnit these sulphates .
this purpoRe I { vays { to the le ater , in hich the is to be deterlnined , a sufficient of a saturated chloride-of-barium solution to precipitate itll the sulphul.ic acid present .
The effect has ered my .
After the first fifth of tillate has passed , there is rarely a ptible turbidity iu fresh ater .
In practice , er , as it costs little ouble , I ays distil off from three quarters to seyen eighths , often quite nlne tenths the solution .
The determination the carbol acid in is cal.l.ied on on the ' enger ' by an apparatus , htly modified form of the one described by Dr. Jacobsen in the Allllalen der Chemie Pharmacie , ' a and description of which he good enough to me hen the ' enger ' } fitting out .
A flask with a capacity of about 500 c. vater to bo operated on , usually from 200 .
to .
It closed by in-rubber cork , through which pass tubes ; one , ohmg to the bottom , commumcates with the coJldenser , a cylindrical copper essel , 10 in .
high by in .
diameter , with a block-tin wol.m .
The .
end of the worm is attached to the by a bent glass tube 11 ith flexible ioint , from hich a tube leads to the bottom of the receiver , The flexibility thus ined is , in , of the use , the , by shaL-ing , to expose constantly surfaces of vater to the passing gases .
The is connected by an india-rubber tube with two bulbed -tubes .
An enables tream of air to be through the apparatus , a soda-lime being interposed between it and the .
The ater rnnmg from the aspirator is conducted outside the port by a tube which passes 490 Mr. J. .
Buchanan on the Absorption of nderneath tlask , nported oring , ding iiththrough alask conta.ining twater i iron rod , which is attached to the projecting side of the ship by an eyebolt , in which it has a play of rather more than an inch in the direction of its length .
The lower end of the rod sits securely in a hole , let into the top of the working-table .
When the apparatus is dismounted the rod is pushed up , till its end has freed itself from the hole and laid flat along the roof , being supported at one end by an eye-bolt , at the other by a hook .
The aspirator and the condenser are retained in their places by wooden blocks , which fit in between them and the ship 's side or the battens on the bench .
The water in which the carbonuc acid is to be determined is introduced into the flask by means of a tube reaching to the bottom .
When the carbonic acid is to be determined in a specimen of , the apparatus is first put together and a current of air , free from carbonic acid , drawn through , care having been taken to see it is ghly dry in all its parts .
The corks in the receiver and -tubes are then eased , and from 15 .
to 20 .
baryta-water , usually of about .
norma , l strength , run into them .
The water to be examined is introduced into the flask through a tube reaching to the bottom ; 10 .
of a nearly satul.ated solution chloride of are then added , the apparatus closed and heat applied .
When the liquid begins to boil , care must be taken to lower the flame to avoid frothing over .
A gentle current of air is now conducted through the boiling liquid , and the receiver constantly agitated .
After half an hour 's boiling , about 100 .
water have distilled over , and at the same tims all the carbonic acid .
That the latter is the case , I ascertained by changing the baryta-water at this point , and continuing the distillation , when no turbidity was produced .
That , at amy rate , no appreciable amount of carbonic acid passes after even the first 50 .
water have been distilled over , may be very easily seen by the liquid in the receivel .
passing from a turbid , somewhat frothy solution , to a clear one , in which a well-defined preoipitate is suspended , and whose amount does not visibly alter as the distillation proceeds .
Although such is the case , I have usually , as it costs but little more time and trouble , carried on the distillation until seven eighths have passed , and indeed , in many cases , until crystaUization has commenced .
When proper attention is paid to the agitation of the receiver during the first part of the distill tion , the amount of carbonic acid reaching the first -tube is quite insignificant , and the barytawater in the second remains perfectly clear .
When this operation is finished , the of the -tubes are washed into the receiver with boiled water , and the remaining alkalinity determined with hydrochloric aoid of known and convenient strength .
The point of neutralization is by rosolic acid .
Carbonic Acid Saline Solutions .
order to check the above e , xperiments , it ppeared to me to be of to ermine .
the absorption-coefficients of one more of the tions for .
Before any thing of the retention of carbonic acid by , I had determined , if possible before the sailing of the enger , ' to the solutions of some of the salts occurring se vntcr , felence to their power of absorbing the atmospheric gases .
lt that , in common 11 ith most other , absorbed a smaller quantity of air than distilled do undel ' the same circumstances ; but it had , to my vledge , been attempted to find out whether this diminution of distribnted equally over the th.ee , or was exhibited more stronglv in the case of one gas in that of another .
From expcriment in a 2 per cent. solution of Cl in distilled and the then expelled nalyzed , it ppeared that the as present in slightly greater quantity to the nitrogell than been the case if the liquid had been distilled .
Of course , this being the result of only one experiment , no conclnsion bc from it ; but it the necessity of the estigations I proposed to myself .
Unfortunately , the time at my ) too short of any thing being done , except a fcw experiments ith carbomc acid solutions of sulphate of esia and of snlphate of lime .
For this purpose I use of a Bumsen 's absorptiometer , and lowed his method , ith the ifications rendered necessary by to do , not ith simple liquid , a saline solution .
The rbonic { introduced into the absorption-tube measured , not in the mercurial trough , but in the absorptiometer itsclf , the lid left open .
This is a much more expeditious , inRsmuch gas quickly assumes the temperature the ater of the orptiometer ; as the after ctbsorptiou all done this , there be no object in ding the gas alone in anolher .
Aftcl .
bsorption , the instrument is read with the lid shut , so that orresl ) onds to the height of mercury in the trough is en by the height of it in the outside graduated leg of the absorptiometer .
In all of the determinations this height is given , not in the on the .
itself , in the corresponding reading on the nbsorption-tube , which be directly observed sufficient ccuracy the ordinary telescope used analysis .
As after shaking the instrnment opening the stopcock connecting the ith the body of the instrument some of the ater frequently passed into the former , have generally a rked ater in outer leg forms a factor in estimating the tension of the gas .
The solutions experimented on , one ining 1 .
cent. crystallized sulphate of magnesin and one per cent. gypsum .
that these solutions , before being introduced Mr. J. .
Buchanan on the Absorption of into the absorption-tube , should be deprived of air without affecting their of bion .
This was effected in the following way .
A fiask was filled uP to a mark in the with the solution , half of it was then emptied into another flask and the two boiled , while distilled was kept boiling in a third .
When the boiling had been kept up for about half an hour , the contents of the second flask were emptied into the first and washed out with the hot distilled water , the volume of the solution being brought in this way up to the mark , and so far above it as was equivalent to the expansion of the solution for the difference of temperatures .
A glass syringe of convenient size was now fiUed with the boiling liquid and passed hot into the absorption-tube .
This method may be objected to on two grounds : first , that there is some uncertainty about the exact concentration of the solution when introduced into the absol.ption-tube ; and , second , that some air may have been absorbed by the liquid in its passage through the sylinge to the tube .
As to the first objection , when the operation is carried out in the way I have described , the possible difference between the actual and assumed concentration is so small that it old be extremely unlikely to have any influence on the coefficient of absorption of ]iquid .
As to the second , if the manipulations be expeditiously carried out , thers is but little fear that the liquid so high a , and exposed to the small quantity of air of diminished tension in the syringe , should be contaminated in an appreciable way .
However muoh or little importance one attach to these possible sources of error , they probably explain why the whole subject has been left almost entirely mtouched .
Our object in these experiments is , not to determine the absorptioncoefficient for a standard pressure such as 760 millims. , but to determine it for various pressures , the temperature being kept as uniform as oircumstances will permit , and to compare the results obtained with those calculated for distilled water .
Let volume of gas ( at and 760 millims. ) before introduction of solution , volume ( reduced to ) of gttS after absorption , pressure of this gas , them the volume of gas absorbed be . . . . .
( 1 ) And if be the volume of the solution , we have for the coefficient of absorption at pressure and the temperature of observation , .
( 2 ) Two series of experiments were made om solution of sulphate of magnesia containing per cent. crystallized salt , and one series on sulphate-of-lime solution containing per cent. of O. Carbonic Acid by Saline Solutions .
The detailed results are given in foul .
Tables .
In the are the original yolumes of the carbonic acid used in each series , the data for finding the snme .
In columlls 1 and 2 foumd the lumes used in series I. and II .
respectively for sulphate of nesitt ; column 3 is the volume for the -lime experimeJlts . .
In series of lime , ltlld iu series I. ( Table II .
) ith of , the ere ithout loss of time , the pressure being increased for each experiment .
In series II .
( Table III .
) ttention as to the length of time this gas and solution in at the different , and for each the essure } } as diminished .
They ere left in contact for vine the highest pressure ( column 1 ) before reading ; ) } hours later , No. 3 forly-one houl.s th hours later than 5 aftor the lapse of some II .
Determinations of the absorption-coefficient of per cent. solution of crystallized sulphate mitgnesia carbonic the tem- peratures A94 .
J. .
Buchanan on the Absorption of TABLE II .
( continued .
) TABLE III .
Determinations of the -coefficient of a per cent. solution of crystallized sulphate of magnesia for the tures and pres- sures indicated , the duration of the reaction being taken into account .
Carbonic Acid by Saline Solutions .
Determinations of the coeffici t of a cent. solution of gypsu-m for oarbonic acid at the temperatures pressures indicated .
uced.coen.watersame.mpera .
temperate .eand p Comparison of the results of I. II .
shows the effect hich these sulphates have in the pov er of absorption of cal.bonic acid , when they sufficient time for the reaction .
The subject of the of saline solutions is one of much importance , and affords an almost ustible field for research , when the effect rying the ture of the salt , the strellgth of the tion , the erature , the pressure , the duration of the action of the solution on the gas are taken into account .
I hope , at some fnture time , to be able to resume this interesting inquiry .
H.M. S. ' Challenger , ' Simon 's Bay , Nov. 4 , 1873 .

