]\gt ; confornrable to the observed facts with regard to the earth as those of Laplace .
The soIution offered below was arrived at by an inverse method , namely , by the assumption of a form for the law of the intsrnal density of the planet , and the subsequent determination of the law of compressibility .
One case of the solution gives ns constant compresand another gives the case where the modulus of compressibility varies as the density , as with gas .
It would be easy to fabricate any number of tions of density , any one of which would lead to a law of compressibility equally probable with that of Laplace ; but the solution of Clairaut 's equation for the ellipticity of the internal strata of equal density ems in most cases very difficuIt .
Indeed , it is probable that Laplace formulated his law because it made the equation in question integrable , and because it was not improbable from a physical point of view .
The following notation will be adopted:\mdash ; For an internal stratum of equal density let\mdash ; be the radius vector of any point , the mean radius of the stratum , the ellipticity , the density , colatitude from the axis of rotation , the hydrostatic pressure at the point For the surface let denote the similar things .
Let be the mass of the planet , its mean density , the angulaz velocity of rotation , the ratio * Since this ape was presented I have seen a reference to a paper by the late M. Edouard Roche , in vol. of the Memoirs of the Academy of Montpellier 1848 ) , in which the ] is solved , when the rate of increase of the density varies as the square of the radius .
See Tisserand , " " Comptes Renduq April , 1883 .
Laplace 's pothetical law of compressibility arises from a law of internal density for which the problem had previously been worked out , as an example , by Legendre .
See Todhunter 's " " History of th Figure of the H:arth , \ldquo ; vol. , pp. 117 and 337 . .
On the Figure of Equilibrium of a Planet , .
159 I be the ratio of the density of the stratum to the mean density of all the matter situated inside that stratum , and the nrface value of Let , A be the greatest and least principal moments of inertia of planet about axes through its centre of inertia .
Let o be the ellipticity which the surface would have if the planet :were homogeneous with density , so that The condition that the surface of the planet is a level surface is satisfied by\mdash ; . . . . .
( 1 ) .
The condition that the internal surfaces are also surfaces of equilibrium demands that should satisfy Clairaut 's equation\mdash ; ( 2 ) .
It may be provexl from ( 2 ) , and the consideration that must diminish as increases , that cannot have a maximum or minimum value .
Also it may be shown that the constants introduced in the integral of this equation must be such that\mdash ; ( 3 ) .
when is put equaI to a after differentiation .
The mean density is given by\mdash ; ( 4 ) .
And Neglecting the ellipticity of the strata , we have the moment of inertia about any diameter of the planet given by\mdash ; ( 5 ) .
The ratio of to ( 5 ) gives the precessional constant .
The pressure and density are connected by the equation\mdash ; ( 6 ) .
, are the reciprocals of , according to the notation adopted in Thomson and Tait 's " " Not .
Phil edit .
of 1883 ) , S 824 .
After the determination of as a function of , the solution of all the other equations follows .
In this paper I propose to find a new solution , and to compare the resuIts with thoss of Laplace .
In order to simplify the analysis let the unit of length be equal to the mean radius a of the planet , and the unit of time be such that surface density ) of the plant is also unity .
Now Jet us assume that the law of internal density is\mdash ; . . . . .
( 9 ) .
Then the mean density of all the matter lying inside of the stratum is .
Hence , by definition we have\mdash ; . . . . .
( 10 ) .
Thus we see that is a constant for all strata , and therefore also for the surface .
In 's theory is variable .
With our assumed law of density and the special units , the mean density is equal to reciprocal of It is clear that must be positive , otherwise heavier strata lie above lighter , and it must be less than 3 in order to avoid infinite mass at the centre of the planet .
Now let us find the law connecting pressure and density , and the modulus of compressibility .
Equation ( 7 ) becomes and by definition of and the assumption ( 9 ) , 1883 .
On the Figure of Equilibrium of a Planet , 1 Integrating this , with the condition that the pressure vanishes at the surface , we have , whence the modulus of compressibility is The case of is interesting ; it gives a constant modulus of compressibility equal to , and the law of pressure If be less than unity the compressibility , or reciprocal of the modulus , increases with the density , which is of course physically 1 improbable .
If be greater than unity and less than 3 , the compressibility becomes less the greater the density .
The assumed law probably does not give such good results as those of Laplace , because the decrease of compressibility with increasing density is not sufficiently rapid .
The range of to gives the results which possess most physical interest .
In comparing results with those of Laplace there will be occasion to express the modulus as alengtl ] ; that is to say , we are to find the length of a column of unit section whose weight ( referred to the surface gravity of the planeb ) is equal to the force specified in the modulus .
Now if be gravity Hence the modulus is , the units being reintroduced to give the expression the proper dimensions .
Now is a pressure , and therefore the length of the modulus is Thus the surface tter has a length modulus equal to Now let us find the ellipticity of the internal strata .
Substituting for from ( 9 ) in ( 2 ) , we have , If the solution be assumed of the form must satisfy whence And since , we have for the precessional constant .
Now let us collect these results , and express them in terms of instead of .
The solution is And the mass inside of any radius is And when The length of the modulus at the surface is of the planet.s radius . .
On the Figure of Equilibrium of a Planet , .
163 A Any value from unity to an infinitely small value may be assigned to , that is to say , we may have any arrangement of density from homogeneity to infinitely small surffice density , but if be greater the compressibility increases with the density , which is improbable .
The infinite density and infinite pressure , which occur in this : solution actually the centre , may be avoided by imagining the .
centre occupied by a homogeneous nucleus , of very .
small radius , and of density We have to compare this soIution with Laplace 's .
For this case is not constant , and its surface value is Let , where is a constant , being the arbitrary constant introduced in this solution ; and let be the surface value of The solution is\mdash ; And the mass inside of any radius is .
The length of the moduIus at the surface is or of the planet 's radius . .
The following table gives the numerical values of the solution , ether with columns for comparison with the results of Laplace 's theory , for various values of the ratio of surface to mean density .
* See Thomson and Tait 's " " Not .
Phil 1883 , S 824 .
Note.\mdash ; The values in the two columns applicable to Laplace 's theory were found by graphical interpolation from a series of values given in " " Month .
Not R.A.S. , Dec. , 1876 , or Thomson and Tait , " " Not .
Phil 1883 ) , S 824 ' .
In Laplace 's theory , and the modulus of compressibihty .
In the present theory the modulus The value corresponds to constant compressibility , and to gaseous ibility .
One of the grounds on which Laplace 's soIution is held to be satisfactory is that if we take the value of o , as determined by the known velocity and mean density of the earth , and the value of as determined by geodesy , and find the value of , the ratio of surface to mean density , which corresponds with the ratio , this same value of is found to give a proper value to the coefficient of , so as to obtain the observed precessional constant .
To be more precise , is found to be , which gives , and has been found to be approximately 1/ 295 .
These give , and this corresponds with .
This value of , with the same values of and , gives the precessional constant as 0033 , and Leverrier and Serret give its value as Now it appears remarkable that almost as good a correspondence is obtainable from my solution .
The value corresponds with , and wheJl S675 the coefficient of in the precessional constant is , which gives the same precessional constant 0033 .
This value of corresponds very nearly with constant modulus of compressibility , and with pressure determined by On the Figure of Equilibrium of a Planet , It is claimed in favour of the Laplacian hypothesis that it corresponds to a surface density which is nearly a half of the mean ilensity of the earth , and that we know that average rock has a denof about .
Also it is pointed out in Thomson and Tait 's Natural Philosophy\ldquo ; that the length modulus of compressibility bf the surface rock is about of the earth 's radius , which is ( very nearly the observed length modulus of iron .
These conditions are not well satisfied by the present solution , for fths surface density is found to be 675 , or of the mean density of the planet , whence the specific gravity at the surface is ; and the Iength modulus at the surface is equal to the planet 's radius .
It is to be admitted that this density is large , and that the substance is also highly incompressible .
Thus in these respects the Laplacian hypothesis has the advantage .
It seems to me , however , that too much stress should not be laid on these arguments .
We know nothing of the materials of the eaxth , .
for a mile or two in thickness from the surface , hence it is not safe to argue confidently as to the degree of compressibility of interior .
here seems reason to believe that there is a deficiency in density under great mountain ranges , and this would agree with the hypothesis that our continents are a mere intumescence of the surface layers .
According to this view we might expect to find a rather sudden change in density within a few miles of the surface .
Now in any theory of the earth 's density such a sudden change in the thin shell on the surface could not ) taken into account , and the numerical value for the surface density should be taken from below the intumescent layer if it exists .
Hence it is not unreasonable to say that a solution of the problem , which gives a higher surface density than that of rock , lies near the truth .
I do not maintain that my soIution is as likely as that of Laplace , but it is not to be condemned at once because it does not satisfy these conditions as to the density and compressibility of rock .
The two cases which are given at the foot of the above table each possess an interest , the first of constant compressibility , because it corresponds with the case of the earth , and the second of modulus of compressibility varying.as the density , because this is the gaseous law .
With constant compressibility the internal ellipticity varies as the 562 power of , or nearly as the square root of the radius ; with gaseous compressibility it varies as the power of , or nearly as the square root of the cube as the radius .
A numerical comparison of the case of constant compressibility ith Laplace 's solution for gives the following results:\mdash ; would be fallacious , and it would be more Iogical to lea , ve expressions for the pressure and the density both as functions of the radius , without proceeding to eliminate the radius and to form an expression for the modulus of compressibility .
I owe this suggestion to a conversation with Sir William Thomson.\mdash ; December 19 , 1883 .
]

