XI .
" 1 Reduction and Discussion of the Deviations of the Compass observed on board of all the Iron-built Ships and a selection of the Wood-built Steam-ships in Her Majesty 's Navy , and the Iron Steanm-ship ' Great Eastern ' ; " being a Report to the ilydrographer of the Admiralty .
By FREDE1 , ICK J. EVANS , Esq. Communicated by the Lords Comimnissioiners of the Admiralty .
Received May 5 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) The analysis of the deviations of the compass in this paper comprises the observations made in forty-two iron ships , varying in size from 3400 to 165 tons , a selection of wood-built screw and paddlewheel steam-vessels , as also the steam-ship " Great Eastern ' at various times prior to her departure from England .
The observations made in the iron-built ships extend over periods varying between thirteen and five years ; and having been made with the same description of compass the Admiralty standard-arid under similar conditions of arrangement and situation , in accordance with the system carried out in Her Majesty 's Navy , details of which are given , the general results are strictly comparable .
In the analysis of the Tables , amounting to nearly 250 in number , of deviations observed in various parts of both hemispheres , the formula deduced from Poisson 's General Equations by Mr. Archibald Smith , given in the Philosophical Transactions for 1846 , p. 348 , has been employed .
In this formula , the deviation of the compass on board ship , reekoned positive when the north point of the needle deviates to the east , is given by the following expression Deviation ( )A +B sin 4 ' +C cos 4 ' +D sin 2+E cos 24 ' , 4 ' being the azimuth ( by compass ) of the ship 's head , reckoned from the magnetic north towards the east ; A , D , E being constant coefficients depending only on the amouint , quality , and arrangement or position of the iron in the ship : B and C , coefficients depending on these , and also on the magnetic dip and horizontal intensity , are each consisting of two parts ; one caused by the permanent magnetism of the hard iron , the deviation produced by which varies inversely as the horizontal force at the place ; and the other , caused by the vertical part of the earth 's force inducing the soft iron in the ship , the deviation produced by which varies as the tangent of the dip : B representing that part of the combined attraction acting in a fore-and-aft direction , C that acting in a transverse , or athwart-ship direction .
From the equation tan C , the direction of the ship 's force , and VB32+ ?
2 C the total magnetic force of the ship in proportion to the horizontal force at the place of observation is obtained : for convenience , 1000 has been adopted to represent the value of the earth 's horizontal force at the English ports of observation , in order , by an easy comparison , to niote the changes on foreign stations .
By comparison of the coefficients of the several descriptions of ships , it is observed that in wood-built steam-vessels , the coefficients B and C vary nearly as the tangent of the dip ; from whence it may be inferred , as a general rule , that in steam machinery permanenlt magnetism bears but a small proportion to induced ; but in ironbuilt ships , B and C generally vary more nearly as theinverse horizontal force , showing that they depenid more on the permanent magnetism of the iron of the ship , and thus confirming the view of the Astronomer Royal , given in his earliest deductions ( Phil. Trans. 1839 ) , that the effect of transient induced magnetism is in these ships small comparatively .
Numerous examples are given in detail of this permanency of magnetism , as also of the gradual diminution of the ship 's force resulting from time .
An investigation of the coefficient D , which is caused entirely by the horizontal indulctioIn of the soft iron in the ship , and which is known as the " ' quadrantal " deviationi , shows , that while in woodbuilt steam-ships it seldom exceeds 1 ?
or Il " , it rises in iron-built ships from 1I ' to 6 ?
and 70 ; the Liverpool Compass-Committee recording even a point of the compass .
The chief characteristics of the quadrantal deviation , as developed in this investigation , are1 .
That it has invariably a positive sign , causing any easterly deviation in the N.E. and S.W. quadrants ; and a westerly deviation in the S.E. and N.W. quadrants .
2 .
Its amount does not appear to depend on the size , or mass of the vessel , or direction when building ; or on the existence of iron beams .
3 .
That a gradual decrease in amount has occurred , after the lapse of a number of years , in nearly every vessel that has been observed .
4 .
That the value remiains unchanged in signi and amnount , on changes of geographic position .
5 .
That a value not exceeding 40 , and ranging between that amount and 20 , may be assuimed to represent the average or normal amount in vessels of all sizes .
Numerous examples are given in support of these propositions , as also of the uniformity of the amnount of quadrantal deviation when determined in various parts of the ship ; and , assuming the normal amount in iron steam-ships as from 20 to 40 , an analysis is giveni by which it is seen that 75 per cent. of the iron ships of the Royal Navy are included in this condition .
Two questions of importance here arise ; are the results of this analysis conclusive , and if so , under what conditions do large quadrantal deviations occur ?
Reverting to the Astronomer Royal 's early experiments in 1838-39 , in the iron ships 'Rainbow ' and 'Ironsides , ' whose values were very small , and presuming that those vessels were built of good material-from their then experimental character-as also that similar conditions of material of good quality exist in the iron slhips of the Royal Navy , it is assumed that the value ( 20 to 40 ) represents the average condition of a ship built of the best or superior ron .
On the other hanid , can the inference be drawil -that large quadrcantal leviatioi in an iron ship implies that inferior tmaterial has beeni used in her construction ?
Attention is here directed to the ships ' Birkliehead ' and ' Royal Charter , ' which from their well-known magnetic coefficients may be regarded as the types respectively of " 6hard " and " soft " iron constructed vessels , and from their consideration , as also from a review of the general results , these conclusions are derived:1 .
That in an iron ship of ordinary dimensionis , a standard compass can be placed , the deviations of which will but little exceed those obtaining in wood-built steam-ships ; and further , that on changes of geographic position , however distant , these deviations will be within smaller limits , and can be approximately predicted .
2 .
A divergence from these conditions will arise when the inductive magnetism of the blull or machinery predominates ; and it is inferred , especially from the example of the ' Royal Charter , ' that large quadrantal deviation and fluctuating sub-permanent magnetism ( due to hull alorne ) are co-existent , and give rise to colnditions of compass disturbance which are beyond prediction , and which have hitherto baffled inquiry and given a complexion to theoretical deductions varying as regarded from different points of view .
In order to examine the change which the original magnetism of an iron ship undergoes after launching , a series of compass observations were made in the steam-ship ' Great Eastern ' prior to her quitting the River Thames in 1859 , and subsequently at Portland , hIolyhead , and Southampton* at the three first-named places within short periods of time of each other .
The results , from an Admiralty Standard Compass placed in a position the least subject to influence from local masses of iron , were as follows : In the first five days , from Deptford to Portlanid , the ship 's force had diminished from 05685 to 0A480 [ the earth 's force =_1 000 ] , or nearly one-fifth ; representing a decrease in the " semicircular " deviation from 350 50 ' to 280 45 ' ; the direction of the force , or neutral points , approaching the fore-and-aft line by 100 , or changlng from 470 on the starboard bow to 37 ? .
At the expiration of the next six weeks , the ship in the interim having made the passage to H-lolyhead , the ship 's force diminished from 0-480 to 0'390 , or about one-sixth , corresponding to a decrease of CC semicircular " deviation from 280 45t to 230 0 , the direction of the force changing from 370 to 32 ' .
At Southampton , in June 1860 , or nearly eight months after the experiments made at Holyhead , the force had further diminished from 0 390 to 0-235 , or by one-half , corresponding to a decrease in the " semicircular " deviation from 23 ?
0 ' to 13 ? ?
30 ' ; whilst the direction of the force approached the fore-and-aft line 25 ' , or from 32 ?
to 70 ; the quadrantal deviation remaining nearly constant [ + 4101 the whole time included in the various observations .
The unvarying tendency of the direction of the ship 's force in the 'Great Eastern ' to assume a fore-and-aft line , supports the view that time , with the vibrations and concussions due to sea service , leads to a distribution of the magnetic lines , of the nature of a stable equilibrium depending on the average of the inducing forces to which the ship is exposed ; the respective sectionis of the hull having north and south polarity , being separated by Iinies approximating more nearly a horizontal plane and vertical axis through the body of the ship ; instead of the inclined axis and equatorial plane of separation due to the magnetic dip of the locality , and divergence from the magnetic meridian , of the hull while building .
The practical information resulting from the example of the 'Great Eastern ' is , that prior to a newly built iron ship being sent to sea , her head during equipment should be secured in an opposite direction to that in which she was built ; and that the magnetic lines should be assisted to be " shaken down " by the vibrations of the machinery in a short preparatory trip prior to the determination of her compass errors , or their compenisationi ; but especially that in the early voyages vigilant supervision should be exercised in the determination of the corDpass disturbancesAnother important point , generally nieglected when compasses are adjusted by the aid of magnets in a newly built iron ship , is rendered manifest by the results of this investigation ; namely , the necessity of the errors of the compass being determined and placed on record prior to the adjustment .
Without the knowledge to be derived from these observationis of the magnetic force of the ship , all fuiture changes of magnetism and conisequent errors of the compass are mere guesswork both to those who adjust , and those in charge of the na.vigation of the ship .
It is recommended that , in any future legislation ior the secuLrity of the navigation of our mercantile marine with referenice to ironbuilt ships , the determination and record of these preliminary observatiols should be secured .
The paper concludes by directing , attenition to the general principles of practical import which result from the investigation , viz. as to the best direction with reference to the magnetic mieridian for the keel and head of an iron ship to be placed in building , to ensure the least compass disturbance ; the best position and arrangement for a compass to ensure small deviations , and permanency on changes of geographic position ; and the changes to which the conipass is liatble from various causes on the foregoinog conditions being fulfilled .
For the best direction in building , it is shown that , from the nature of the polarity of the hull , and especially of the top sides in the after section of the ship and adjoining the compass , where usually placed , the latter is least affected in those vessels built in the line of the magnetic meridian .
For ironi steam-vessels engaged in the home or foreign trades in the northern hemisphere , it is recommended , from the then antagonistic magnetic influence of the hull and machinery , to build them head to the north : for iroln sailing vessels , from the top sides , in the usual position of the compass , being magnetically weak if built head to the south , the latter direction is to be preferred .
The selection for the position of the compass depenids on the direction of the ship during building ; in those built head to north , it must be renmoved as far from the stern as convenienlce will permit ; in those built head to south , as near to the stern as convenient , but avoiding especially , in all cases , proximity to vertical masses of iron .
In ships built head east or west , there is little choice of position : in those built on the intercardinal points , a position approximating to the stern when the action from the top-sides-to be determined experimentally-is at a minimum , is to be preferred .
Ample elevation above the deck and exact position in the middle line of the ship , are primary conditions to be observed ; and no compass should be nearer iron deck beams than 4 feet .
As every piece of iron not forming a part of , or hammered in the fabrication of the hull , such as the rudder , funnel , fastenings of deck houses , &amp;c. , is of a magnetic character differing from the hull of the ship , proximity to ArOL .
X. any such should be avoided , and , as far as possible , the comupass should be so placed that they may act as correctors of the general magnetism of the hull .
As most compasses are affected by the magnetism of the ship to an amount depending on their elevation , and the direction of the ship in building , the disturbances will be large comparatively , except in those vessels built head east or west .
A series of Tables is appended , wherein the magnetic coefficients and ship 's force and direction of the various classes of vessels are given , the ships being classed according to the nature of their material and machinery .

