The Effect of some Local Anaesthetics on Nerve .
By W. L. Symes and Y. H. Veley , F.R.S. ( Received December 10 , 1910 , \#151 ; Read February 9 , 1911 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory of the University of London .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE I. Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 421 II .
Method of Experiment ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
422 III .
Conditions which Influence the Anaesthetic Block ... ... ... ... ... .
423 IV .
Effects of the Individual Drugs ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 424 V. General Considerations ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
428 VI .
Conclusions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
432 I. Introduction .
The employment of stovaine , in clinical practice , to produce local anaesthesia by direct application of the drug to nerve ( lumbar anaesthesia ) suggested comparison of this substance with its homologues , * as also with cocaine , on a similar plan .
Afferent nerves , however , were not chosen for the purpose , as their use would have involved the ambiguities inseparable from quantitative examination of reflex action .
Hence motor nerves , with their simpler index of activity ( muscular contraction ) , were taken in preference .
In principle , the plan adopted was identical with that used by Griinhagenf and others in studying the effect of gases and vapours on the conductivity of nerve , viz. , applying the agent under examination to the nerve between the stimulating electrodes and the muscle .
Wedenski , t on the same lines , has investigated the effect of painting solutions of cocaine ( and of other drugs ) on a motor nerve trunk , and more recently Dixon , S and Tait and Gunn|| have respectively tested cocaine and yohimbine by analogous methods .
This method is advantageous in that it entails no disturbance of the stimulated portion of the nerve , and enables study of the modes of onset and of subsidence of the anaesthetic block under constant excitation .
It was found possible , with as many as six excitations per minute , to observe these two processes , on the same nerve-muscle preparation , within times sufficiently short to exclude fatigue .
* The physical properties of these bodies and their effect on skeletal muscle , on respiration , and on circulation are dealt with in the preceding paper , p. 413 .
+ Griinhagen , 'Arch .
f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1876 , vol. 6 , p. 180 .
+ Wedenski , ibid. , 1900 , vol. 82 , p. 134 ; and 1903 , vol. 100 , p. 1 .
S Dixon , ' J. Physiol. , ' Cambridge , 1905 , vol. 32 , p. 87 .
|| Tait and Gunn , 'Quart .
Journ. Exp. Physiol. , London , ' 1908 , vol. 1 , p. 191 .
Mr. W. L. Symes and Dr. Y. H. Yeley .
[ Dec. 10 , The local anaesthetics which we have compared in this way are cocaine , stovaine , the methyl- , amyl- , phenyl- , and benzyl-homologues of the latter , and a new salt prepared by Fourneau , viz. , the propyl ester of a dimethyl-amino-oxybenzoyl-isobutyric acid , which as elsewhere* pointed out ; is intermediate in chemical structure between cocaine hydrochloride on the one hand , and stovaine on the other .
In addition to their bearing on the comparative effects of individual drugs , our results throw light on the response of nerve to direct , and on that of muscle to indirect , electrical stimulation .
II .
Method of Experiment .
Most of our observations were made on the isolated nerve-sartorius , with a light myograph , in a moist chamber .
The stimuli were maximal break induction shocks , applied to the nerve at intervals of 10 seconds , just below its divergence from the main sciatic trunk .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Blockage of Conductivity ( local anaesthesia ) in nerve by Fourneau 's new salt N/ 100 = 0'29 per cent , solution .
... 1 Nerve in normal saline\#151 ; preliminary test of preparation .
1 ... 2 Nerve in anaesthetic solution\#151 ; onset of blockage .
2 . . . .
Nerve in normal saline\#151 ; restoration of conductivity .
The lower line signals minutes ( down strokes ) and stimuli ( up strokes ) .
Between the electrodes and the muscle , approximately 2 millimetres from the latter , about 1 centimetre of the nerve was immersed in a bath containing successively:\#151 ; A. Normal saline solution ( 0 6 per cent. NaCI in tap water ) .
B. A solution of one of the drugs in normal saline .
C. Normal saline again .
* Yeley and Symes , supra , p. 414 .
1910 .
] The Effect of some Local on .
423 During these periods the muscle twitches were recorded on a drum moving about 1 cm .
per minute , whilst a double electro-magnetic signal ( Locke 's model ) , writing below the muscle tracing , served to record time and stimuli .
The inductorium was either ( A ) a Cambridge model which , with signal in primary circuit and a current of 0-6 ampere from a single accumulator , was used with the secondary coil at 175 mm. , or ( B ) a model of Berne type which , under the above conditions , carried 0-4 ampere and was used with the secondary 400 mm. from its zero .
In both cases the stimulus was well in excess of that necessary to evoke maximal response from a good nerve-muscle , and any preparation that failed to respond maximally was rejected .
III .
Conditions which Influence the Anaesthetic Block .
It was to be expected that the rate of diffusion of the drugs into the nerve would influence the rate of onset of the block .
This was substantiated by our preliminary tests , in which we found that an N/ 100 solution of coeaihe hydrochloride required 40 minutes to produce on the sciatic-gastrocnemius an effect attained , with the same solution , on the nerve-sartorius , in about one-twentieth of the time .
So great a difference shows that , even with the same nerve from different frogs , variations in the rate of blocking may be expected from minor variations in the position of the motor fibres relatively to the surface exposed to the drug .
Individual nerves differ in quality ; a fresh preparation from a fresh frog is blocked more rapidly than a preparation either stale or made from a frog that has been kept in stock for some time .
As would be anticipated , increase in concentration of the drug solution , or repetition of the drug bath soon after recovery from a block , leads to more rapid abolition of conductivity .
With dilute solutions of the drugs , decrease in temperature , when sufficiently great , delays the onset of the block , especially in the case of cocaine , but between 16 ' and 20 ' C. the effect of temperature is often masked by other factors .
For a given position of the secondary coil , a block which is complete to maximal break shocks is almost invariably complete to tetanic stimulation .
When not so , the response to the latter is seldom tetanus , but the brief clonus or apparently simple twitch noticed by Wedenski , and later by Tait and Gunn ( in the case of yohimbine ) , and is rarely obtainable more than once .
Moreover , when a block is once complete , the stimulus may be considerably increased without provoking further response .
With inductorium A , a block with the secondary coil at 175 mm. was invariably a block when the secondary was pushed up to zero , both for single shocks and for tetanic Mr. W. L. Symes and Dr. Y. H. Yeley .
[ Dec 10 stimulation .
With induetorium B , a block with the secondary coil at 400 mm. was always complete at 300 mm. and at 200 mm. , though not always at 100 mm. , and when not so , was noticeably less effective against tetanisation than against single stimuli .
In such cases , prolongation of the drug bath was necessary to abolish response with the secondary coil at zero .
On substituting normal saline for the anesthetic solution , when the block is complete , response remains for a time in abeyance , but sooner or later returns .
The rate of recovery of the nerve is affected by the factors that influence the onset of the block .
Increase in concentration of the drug , early repetition of the drug bath , and pronounced fall in temperature , all lead to delayed recovery , whilst a fresh nerve recovers ( as it fails ) more rapidly than a stale one .
Furthermore , recovery is delayed by prolonging the duration of the drug bath after response has ceased .
IV .
Effects of the Individual Drugs .
Cocaine Hydrochloride .
In comparison with stovaine and its homologues , cocaine hydrochloride ocks somewhat less rapidly and allows much more rapid recovery .
Moreover , it is the most conspicuously affected by dilution , N/ 500 ( 0*07 per cent. ) so utions acting with extreme slowness ( Table I ) .
Table I.*\#151 ; Cocaine Hydrochloride .
% Concentration .
Temperature .
Time required to block maximal stimulus .
Duration of block .
N/ 100 ( 0 *34 per cent. ) 'c .
18 mins .
, o min^ 2 N/ 300 " 10 6-5 15 \#187 ; 18 2 \lt ; 1 I _ M 20 1 \lt ; 1 N/ 600 .
20 1 3 '5 u ... ... 18-5 22 \lt ; 1 ~ 18 -5 53 \lt ; 1 nas t this to liberation of^R8 ^ 'n excitability of nerve , and s * In thig S0Ine ^e cocaine base .
In agreement ew are not included ^ tables second and subsequent observations on + Groa\gt ; 'Archiv f ^ P- athol u. Pharmakol .
, ' 1910 , vol. 63 , p. 80 .
the 1910.1 The Effect of some Local Ancesthetics on results , we find that such addition also quickens the effect of this drug on rierve conductivity ; and further that it prolongs the duration of the resulting block .
But it is obvious that Gros ' solution* is too complex to warrant his explanation of this acceleration .
In our hands solutions of cocaine base have acted much less rapidly than equimolecular solutions of its hydrochloride .
We have found this both with Merck 's cocaine ( base ) and with the base which we prepared from our solutions of ( Merck 's ) cocaine hydrochloride , by precipitating with ammonia , washing free from chloride , and drying the solid .
We have also found the hydrochloride , re-formed from this precipitated base , to possess its original activity .
These results are shown in Table II .
Table II.\#151 ; -Comparison of Cocaine Base and its Hydrochloride , N/ 300 in each case .
Base ( Merck ) . .
... .
No block in 10 mins .
Salt ( " ) ... Complete block in 2*5 mins .
Base ( precipitated ) , " \#187 ; 12'5 " Salt ( Merck ) " \#187 ; " Salt ( re-formed ) , , \#187 ; 12 " Stovaine.f With stovaine , the block ensues more rapidly and lasts longer than with equimolecular solutions of cocaine hydrochloride .
Further , more 1 ute elutions are effective , and temperature has less influence than with t e latter drug .
Gros ( loc. cit. ) also noticed that stovaine abolished excitabih y nerve the more rapidly , and that this abolition was accelerated qy traces '1 alkali , a fact which he explains as in the case of cocaine .
Stained effects analogous to this , but find the acceleration less marked than with the cocaine salt .
dil t0 M the base of stovaine is an oil , that does not ?
\#174 ; itoation we have not compared its effects with those 0 * WaUel .
} 0n muscle and on the electrical response of nerve , * .
ound cocaine hydrochloride and stovaine to act with pra Tapidity .
JH cocaine hydrochloride , 10 \#187 ; N/ 100 sodium hydrate , 7* chloride , 2 c.c. We are indebted to M. JFourneau for our samples ^ 1 Ve % and Waller\gt ; \lt ; Roy\gt ; Soc\gt ; proc .
; B , 1910 , vol. 82 , p. 14 .
an 8 c.c. ; 0-7 per-cent .
d its homologues .
Mr. W. L. Symes and Dr. Y. H. Yeley .
[ Dec. 10 Table III.\#151 ; Stovaine .
Concentration .
Temperature .
Time required to block maximal stimulus .
Duration of block .
'c .
mins .
mins .
ISyiOO ( 0 *27 per cent. ) 18 1 4 \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; y 10 2 4 N/ 500 17 \lt ; 1 7 \gt ; \#187 ; j 17 4 3 N/ 600 19 -3 9 \lt ; 1 N/ 1000 19 -3 17 \lt ; 1 1 28 3 \lt ; i \gt ; \gt ; 18 4 \lt ; i Methyl Stovaine .
Methyl stovaine closely resembles stovaine in rate of action , * but its effect subsides more rapidly when the nerve is replaced in saline .
Its affinity value has been found by one of usf to be somewhat greater than that of stovaine .
It may therefore offer some advantage over the latter , since its base is less readily precipitated by faintly alkaline solutions such as cerebrospinal fluid or lymph .
Table IY.\#151 ; Methyl Stovaine .
Concentration .
Temperature .
Time required to block maximal stimulus .
Duration of block .
'c .
mins .
mins .
N1100 ( 0 *26 per cent. ) 17 -8 i \gt ; 20 N/ 300 20 11 8 17 2 3-5 1 N/ 500 20 1 5 \lt ; 1 17 2 6 \lt ; 1 Amyl Stovaine .
Close comparison between this and the preceding drugs is difficult owing to gradual precipitation of its base by tap watery Solutions in tap-water saline act more slowly than equimoleeular solutions of stovaine , or of methyl stovaine , but the resulting block is of greater duration .
In distilled water saline , it both acts and is washed out rather more rapidly , though less so than the other drugs mentioned above .
It , therefore , offers the advantage of * Cf .
Yeley and Waller , loc. cit. t Yeley , 'Trans .
Chem. Soc. , ' 1909 , vol. 95 , p. 758 .
X Solutions of amyl stovaine are more readily decomposed by boiling in soft glass vessels than are those of stovaine .
1910 .
] The Effect of some Local Anaesthetics on Nerve .
427 more sustained effect against the possible disadvantage of more ready precipitation of its base .
Table V.\#151 ; Amyl Stovaine .
Concentration .
Temperature .
Time required to block maximal stimulus Duration of block .
'c .
mins .
N/ 100 ( 0 *31 per cent. ) 18 2-5 \lt ; 2 hrs .
N/ 300 19 3 \lt ; 24 mins .
N/ 500 17-4 8-5 6 " Phenyl Stovaine and Benzyl Stovaine .
The bases of these bodies are even more readily precipitated by alkalis than that of amyl stovaine .
It was , therefore , impossible to examine them in tap water saline .
In distilled water saline their effect resembles that of amyl stovaine in the relative slowness of its onset and subsidence .
They appear " to offer no advantage over amyl stovaine .
Table 'VI .
Concentration .
Temperature .
Time required to block maximal stimulus .
Duration of block .
Phenyl Stovaine .
j 0 C. mins .
mins .
N/ 300 ( 0 *1 per cent. ) 19 1 \gt ; 27 N/ 500 19 \lt ; 1 5 33 16 -5 8-5 1 33 18 -5 7-8 \lt ; 1 Benzyl Stovaine .
N/ 300 ( 0 *12 per cent. ) 16 -5 2 27 N/ 500 18 -5 4 5 -5 33 15-6 1 10 8-5 Fourneau 's New Salt .
This body is one of the most active of the series .
In rapidity of onset , and in duration , its effect is comparable with that of stovaine .
As stated above , p. 418 , it is relatively inactive on the central nervous system and on the circulation .
It should therefore prove an admirable local anaesthetic .
According to Fourneau ( footnote , p. 414 ) its methyl homologue also possesses marked local anaesthetic power .
428 Mr. W. L. Symes and Dr. V. H. Yeley .
[ Dec. 10 Table VII.\#151 ; Fourneau 's Salt .
Concentration .
Temperature .
Time required to block maximal stimulus .
Duration of block .
N/ 100 ( 0 *29 per cent. ) '0 .
mins .
mins .
15 -6 \lt ; 1-0 16 *0 N/ 200 15-6 1 2 6 *5 N/ 300 16-0 2-0 10 *0 N/ 500 21 -0 7 -0 5*0 \gt ; \gt ; * 21 -0 2 \gt ; 16-0 17 -0 2-0 2-0 V. General Considerations .
The records of failure of the muscular response to stimulation of its motor nerve ( by maximal break induction shocks of constant intensity ) , conditioned by failure of conductivity in the latter , are of the same type with all the drugs that we have tested.* Fig. 2.\#151 ; Onset of Block by a Dilute ( \lt ; N/ 300 ) Solution of Amyl Stovaine in Tap-water Saline .
Prior to the arrow the nerve bath contained normal saline .
In interpreting them , it must be borne in mind that the drugs are applied to the surface of the nerve , and that their rate of diffusion into the nerve * In addition to the local anaesthetics with which this paper deals , we have also examined chloretone ( tertiary trichlorbutyl alcohol ) and yohimbine , rfor the latter of which we are indebted to Dr. Waller .
Both of these are credited with local anaesthetic properties .
1910 .
] The Effect of some Local on Nerve .
trunk is slow ( v. supra , p. 423 ) .
Hence the more superficial fibres of the nerve must be affected distinctly earlier than the deeper ones .
This raises the question whether incomplete blockage of a nerve trunk is due to partial blockage of any of its individual fibres , or to complete blockage of a limited number of them .
In all our records , the muscular response , and therefore also the conductivity of the nerve , fails abruptly when it fails at all ; either abruptly and rapidly as in fig. 1 , or abruptly and slowly by a limited number of sharply defined , flat-topped steps , not exceeding eight in total .
Marked instances of the latter are seen in figs. 2 and 3 , as the effect of solutions that lead slowly to complete blockage of the nerve trunk .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Block by a slowly acting Anaesthetic Solution .
The drug , cocaine hydrochloride N/ 500 ( = 0'07 per cent. ) , was applied at the white vertical line .
These do not represent the block in individual nerve fibres to be anywhere partial , but , as judged by the muscle , to be either complete or zero .
Tor , on the one hand , the large number of small decrements in response that such partial blocking would necessarily entail is conspicuously absent , and , on the other hand , the strikingly small number and extreme flatness of the steps suffice to indicate that each one represents simultaneous complete blockage of large groups of fibres .
The blockage of individual fibres is therefore commenced and completed within the interval ( 10 seconds)* between the stimuli .
Nor is partial blockage of individual fibres in evidence when the drug fails to produce completef blockage of the nerve trunk .
* A small number of observations with stimulation at intervals of 5 seconds yielded , without exception , records of the same type .
+ A block was not regarded as complete until at least three consecutive stimuli evoked no response .
YOL .
LXXXIII.\#151 ; B. 2 K Mr. W. L. Symes and Dr. Y. H. Yeley .
[ Dec. 10 , In such cases , when blockage is at all recognisable ( fig. 4 ) , abrupt irregularity replaces the abrupt regularity of figs. 2 and 3 .
In fig. 2 , none of the steps is followed by any recovery during the drug bath , which , though slowly acting , is sufficiently concentrated to block with certainty .
In fig. 3 the last three steps contain examples of reversion to the amplitude of the preceding ; the concentration of the solutionis just sufficient to ensure blockage .
In fig. 4 not even the downward trend of the twitches is maintained .
Here , after initial abrupt diminutions in the muscular response , only one stimulus ( about 7 minutes after application of the drug ) proved altogether ineffective , the succeeding stimuli evoking responses tending in Fig. 4.\#151 ; Failure to Produce Complete Block .
1 .
Application of drug , N/ 300 ( = 0'1 per cent. ) solution of cocaine base .
general towards the normal amplitude ( c/ .
Wedenski , loc. cit. ) , though interspersed with reversions towards failure .
In short , even with the weakest solutions that are at all effective , i.e. with those most favourable to partial blockage of individual nerve fibres , there is , as judged by the muscle , no state of stable equilibrium between complete blockage of the fibre , on the one hand , and complete conductivity on the other .
These records recall observations by Griitzner , * and by Gotch , f that stimulation of less than all the motor nerve fibres to a muscle leads to submaximal contraction , when similar stimulation of all of them produces * Grutzner , 'Arch .
f. d. ges .
Physiol. , Bono , ' 1881 , vol. 41 , p. 256 .
t Gotch , ' J. Physiol. , Cambridge , ' 1902 , vol. 28 , p. 395 .
1910 .
] The Effect of some Local Anaesthetics on Nerve .
maximal response .
From this and other data Gotch urges that submaximal response in muscle , and in nerve , invariably implies maximal response of a limited number of fibres , rather than submaximal response of the whole ( or of any ) of them ; in other words , that the response of individual fibres in both cases is , as in the heart , " all or nothing .
" In the case of muscle , this contention is endorsed by Keith Lucas* ( infra ) .
In the case of nerve , as judged by muscle , our observations appear to lend some support to the view .
The relation of the anaesthetic block to the intensity of the stimulus has already been mentioned ( v.supra , p. 433 ) .
A block to response , evoked by a maximal stimulus , is complete for stimuli which ( on the Berne scale ) are several hundred times as intense , and this block only fails when the secondary coil is pushed up to the region where , in the absence of block , single induction shocks evoke the super-maximal twitches described by Fick .
It is doubtful that induction shocks of this intensity are in reality single stimuli .
Whether so or not , they are noticeably injurious to the nerve { cf. Lockef ) , so far reducing its excitability that a normally maximal stimulus may for some minutes produce no response , and when at all , not then response of the original amplitude .
Their effect cannot therefore be regarded as normal physiological excitation .
Considering , therefore , the failure of the local anaesthetics to reduce the amplitude of the nerve impulse without extinguishing the muscular response altogether , in conjunction with the markedly restricted ( if existent ) ability of increased ( single ) stimuli to evoke response through any anaesthetic block , it seems legitimate to conclude in agreement with Gotch that , apart from summation , the range of amplitude in the normal nerve impulse is exceedingly small\#151 ; in short , that the response of individual fibres is substantially maximal or zero .
The records of recovery , when the drug solution is replaced by normal saline , are , mutatis mutandis , similar to those of failure of response .
The muscle twitch either returns early and grows rapidly and abruptly ( after a weak anaesthetic bath ) , or later and by a more or less protracted series of abrupt steps ( after a strong anaesthetic bath ) , as seen in fig. 1 .
Becords similar to the latter are described by Keith Lucas* as resulting from indirect stimulation of muscle , by single induction shocks , when these are gradually increased from subminimal to maximal .
This step-growth in * Keith Lucas , ' J. Physiol. , Cambridge , ' 1905\#151 ; 6 , vol. 33 , p. 125 , and 1909 , vol. 38 , p. 125 .
t F. S. Locke , ibid.,1900\#151 ; 1901 , vol. 26 , p. xxxix ( 'Physiol .
Soc. Proc. ' ) .
432 The Effect of some Local on Nerve .
response is attributed by him to step-growth in the number of nerve fibres reached by the stimulus as it is increased in intensity , and his explanation is borne out by our records of slow restoration of the muscle twitch .
Since diffusion is slow ( supra , p. 423 ) , the superficial nerve fibres must recover from the effects of the drug appreciably earlier than the deeper ones , and since partial blocking of individual fibres is excluded , and the stimulus applied to the nerve trunk is constant , the step increments in response may fairly be assigned to step increments in the number of nerve fibres that conduct the nerve stimuli to the muscle .
It is of course obvious that , if ( with constant total load ) the number of muscle fibres that enter into contraction increases , the amplitude of contraction must increase , since the load per contracting fibre is correspondingly diminished .
YI .
Conclusions .
1 .
Tested by their effect on the conductivity of frog 's nerve , stovaine , its homologues , and Fourneau 's new salt are more active local anaesthetics than is cocaine .
2 .
Methyl stovaine , amyl stovaine and Fourneau 's salt appear to offer some particular advantage over the others .
3 .
Judged by muscular response , the anaesthetic block in individual nerve-fibres , to impulses evoked by maximal single stimuli , throughout a wide range-of intensity , is complete or zero .
4 .
This block is usually also , * within the same range , complete for impulses , evoked by tetanising stimuli .
5 .
The block , when not complete for tetanising stimuli , is largely resistant to summation ( cf. Wedenski ) .
6 .
From the effects of the local anaesthetics in question , it appears that the-amplitude of a motor nerve impulse is , within normal limits of stimulation , substantially maximal or zero ( cf. Gotch ) .
7 .
Ceteris paribus , the amplitude of a muscle twitch depends on the number of fibres involved ( cf. Grutzner , Gotch , and Keith Lucas ) .
* Vide pp. 423 , 424 .

