A Paper was read , entitled , " Researches in Physical Astronomy/ ' by John William Lubbock , Esq. V.P. and Treas .
R.S. The present paper contains some further developments of the theory of the moon , which are given at length , in order to save the trouble of the calculator , and to avoid the danger of mistake .
The author remarks , that while it seems desirable , on the one hand , to introduce into the science of physical astronomy a greater degree of uniformity , by bringingto perfection a theory of the moon founded on the integration of the equations employed in the planetary theory , it * Since this paper was read , the author has made a number of addi ?
tional experiments on various other pendulums , which , by permission of the Council , will form part of the original paper ; and frcm which he is led to infer that , in the case of spheres , cylinders , and other bodies sus ?
pended by rods of different diameters , the value of the factor depends not only on the body appended to such rod , but that the rod itself has a considerable influence on the result , except it be a very fine wire ; when its effect becomes merged in that of the appended body .
is also no less important , on the other hand , to complete , in the latter , the method hitherto applied solely to the periodic inequalities .
Hi ?
therto those terms in the disturbing function which give rise to the secular inequalities , have been detached , and the stability of the system has been inferred by means of the integration of certain equations , which are linear when the higher powers of the eccentricities are neglected 3 and from considerations founded on the varia ?
tion of the elliptic constants .
But the author thinks that the stability of the system may be inferred also from the expressions which result at once from the direct integration of the differential equations .
The theory , he states , may be extended , without any analytical difficulty , to any power of the disturbing force , or of the eccentricities , ad ?
mitting the convergence of the series ; nor does it seem tobelimited by the circumstance of the planet 's moving in the same direction .

