January 17 , 1850 .
SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON , Vice-President , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled " Researches respecting the Molecular constitution of the Volatile Organic Bases .
" By Dr. A. W. Hofmann .
Communicated by Sir James Clark , Bart. , F.R.S. Chemists , although all acknowledging the existence of an intimate relation between the vegetable alkaloids and ammonia , are nevertheless divided in their opinions respecting the nature of this connection , two theories having been propounded upon the subject .
According to the one , that of Berzelius , the bases would have to be considered as conjugated aummonias in which ammonia still pre-exists as such ; while according to Liebig 's views , these substances are represented as 90.3 amides , i.e. as anmmlonia in which one equivalent of hydrogen is eliminated and replaced by an equivalent of a compound radical .
The researches of the author prove that the theory of Berzelius is inadmissible , at all events for the volatile organic bases , inasmuch as in these substances ammonia ceases to exist as such .
They show , moreover , that Liebig 's view , although correctly expressing the constitution of by far the greater number of the volatile bases known , and presenting , when considered at the time it was first propounded , a wonderful anticipation of subsequent discovery , represents nevertheless only a special case of a much more general relation .
The result at which the author has arrived is , that ammonia is capable of losing either 1 ( Liebig 's case ) or 2 or 3 equivs. of hydrogen which are respectively replaced by 1 , 2 or 3 equivs. of the same , or various compound radicals , a variety of substances apparently endless being produced , in which itsjfundamental property ( the basic character ) is retained , although modified by the number of radicals introduced and their position in the scale of organic compounds .
In support of this statement , he adduces the artificial construction of ' thirteen new organic alkaloids , formed by a method which affords the means of increasing the number of these substances to an indefinite extent .
This method consists in exposing ammonia to the action of the chlorides , bromides or iodides of the alcohol radicals , which remove 1 equivalent of hydrogen of the latter , as hydrochloric , hydrobromic , &amp;c. acid , while the remaining constituents , assuming the alcohol-radical , give rise to the formation of an organic base which unites with the hydrogen acid .
By subjecting the new base itself to a similar treatment , another equivalent of the two remaining equivalents of hydrogen may be removed , a second organic base being formed , which in its turn gives rise to a third .
The changes which the ammonia undergoes in these various processes may be represented graphically by the following simple formulma , X , Y and Z , denoting generally compound radicals .
HtIH7 H N+XBr=H N. HBr .
HJ xJ HI H1 H jN+YBr= X N.HBr .
XJ YJ HXX jN+ZBr= Y &gt; N. Br .
YJ ZJ For the illustration of these general formulae , one of the numerous sets of experiments which the author has communicated in his paper may be quoted in which X=Y-Z .
Ammonia , when exposed to the action of bromide of ethyl ( hydrobromic ether ) , is converted into hydrobromate of ethylamine , i.e. ammonia in which 1 equivalent of hydrogen is replaced by ethyl , a compound which was first observed by M. Wurtz under perfectly different circumstances .
Ethylamine , treated again with bromide of ethyl , yields a new alkaloid diethyla .
mine , i.e. ammonia in which 2 equivalents of hydrogen are replaced by ethyl , and which , under the influence of a further quantity of bromide of ethyl , lastly is transformed into triethylamine , or ammonia in which the whole of the hydrogen is replaced by ethyl .
This is a most powerful alkali , whose properties resemible those of caustic potassa .

