]\gt ; onclusion , uthorsMr .
Mallock .
desire txpress their great thanks tetween B 5 .
Fixation or removal of remalnlng halide .
* William amsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , for his constant advice and interest in the investigation .
The Relation between Strcss and Extension in Tensile Tests of Steel .
By A. MALLOCK , ( Received December 4 , \mdash ; Read December 13 , 1906 .
) A large number of the tensile tests of steel are now made with test-pieces , which are only a few diameters long ( fig. 1 ) .
When such a test-piece is broken by tension , it has a profile , as shown in .
The usual records , made when the tests are carried out , include , other things , " " breaking stress\ldquo ; and " " extension per cent " " Breaking stress\ldquo ; here means the maximum tension applied divided by the original area of the test-piece ; and extension per cent. is taken as the percentage increase due to the strain , in the distance between two marks , one at either end of the test-piece , whose unstrained distance is known .
The use of the term " " breaking stress\ldquo ; in the above sense is convenient , from an engineer 's point of view , as showing ) force a bar , etc. , of given sectional area will stand before giving way .
The true breaking stress of a material , however , the actual intensity of the stress at ' Phot .
Journ. ' ( Trans. Roy .
Phot .
Soc 1906 , vol. 46 , p. 235 : " " On the Theory of Fixation 1906 .
] Stress Extension in Tensile Tests of Sbeel .
the broken surface , and is , of course , greater than the nominal breaking stress , because of the reduced area of the broken surface .
To avoid confusion , I will call the true breaking stress the " " intrinsic strength\ldquo ; of the material .
An examination of a very large number of observations made with the short test-pieces shows that , if the nominal breaking stress ( as defined bove ) is expressed in tons per square inch , the arithmetical sum , breaking stresselongation per cent. , remains constant , and equal to about 67 or 68 for all mild steels , which , at the beginning of the test , are free from internal mechanical strain , no matter what has been the heat treatment of hardening and annealing to which they have been subjected .
The object of this note is to examine the reason for this : for , since breaking stress has the dimensions of a force \mdash ; an area , and extension per cent. is a pure number , it seems at first sight that no physical quantity could be represented by their sum .
To determine the relation between breaking stress ( B ) , elongation per cent. ( E ) , and the intrinsic strength of the material , the form assumed by the test-piece when extended must be known .
The experimental fact to be explained is constant or 68 , if is expressed in tons per square inch .
Any relation which makes ensures the constancy of the sum of , and a variety of relations might be assunled which will do this approximately ; but the particular relation to be sought for is that which not only makes , but also makes the diameter calculated from correspond to the measured diameter , not only at the break , but along the whole length of the test-piece .
When the extension is a small of the whole length , the contraction of the diameter is nearly uniform over the whole .
As the extension proceeds , the local contraction appears , and breakage ultimately occurs at the narrowest part of the neck .
Measurements taken from a number of test-pieces show that the extensions can be represented as being due to ( 1 ) a general and unifornl contraction of the diameter of the test-piece , and ( 2 ) , in to this , contraction of diameter , which at any given cross-section is a negative exponential function of the distance of that cross-section from the crosssection where the break occurs , the axis of the exponential curve being the generating line of the cylinder , to which the distant sections of the testpiece ( had it been long ) would have been reduced by ( 1 ) .
The extensions corresponding to ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) will be considered separately .
Mr. A. Mallock .
between } Let 2 original length of test-piece , extended \ldquo ; original diameter contracted diameter extension ratio reckoned on extended length , , , , , original length , force applied to produce breakage divided by original area of cross-section .
intrinsic strength of the material .
Taking first the extension corresponding to ( 1 ) , since , as is well known , the density of the material is not appreciably affected by the extension , , so that Now ; thus .
( I ) If the unit of force in which is expressed is chosen so that units and 100 units tons per square inch , units identically , if is a constant .
When is small , and are nearly equal , so that for small extensions units nearly .
For the extension corresponding to ( 2 ) take the axis of X parallel to the axis of the test-piece ( 4 ) , and let , be the abscissae respectively of the broken end of the test-piece and the end ( or mark ) from which the extension is measured , and let be the diameter at The curye representing the diameter of the test-piece will be part of the curve , and the condition as to the constant density ( i.e. , invariable volume of the material ) ives the relation 1906 .
] Stress in sile Tests of Steel .
Performing the integration , we have We may take / as nearly equal to , and if , for convenience , we put equal to being the yalue of for which , then To find the actual value of by computation is laborious , but a simple graphical method can be employed .
We have on putting , and in ( II ) , a curve for , say , can be found for any assumed value of thus :From x subtract , and through the point on the axis of , and at an of to the axis , draw a line to cut curve in , then the abscissa of is In this way the has been constructed for test-pieces of the proportions which were used for measurement , viz. inch , inches ) .
An examination of this diagram shows how nearly constant the sum of the breaking stress and elongation per cent. is on the assumption that the intrinsic th of the material is a quantity which is not altered by heat treatment , whether of hardening or annealing .
It gives some evidence , however , that the intrinsic strength increases slightly as the material is extended , not more than about 5 per cent. for an extension of 30 per cent. The intrinsic strength of steel probably varies with the amount of carbon , .
but since Professor Ewing gives 60 to 70 tons per square inch as the average tensile strength of high carbon tempered steel , in which the extension be small , the variation cannot be large .
Any considerable addition of nickel or chrome , however , seems to the intrinsic strength , as the same authority gives 90 tons as the breaking stress of a 12-per-cent .
nickel steel and 80 tons for a chrome steel of chrome not stated ) .
* In saying that the intrinsic of all ordinary steels is about 70 tons per square inch , I exclude altogether case of drawn wire or rolled plates , and refer only to such steel as is fairly isotropic and eneous at the " " Strength of Materials Ewing , 1906 .
Mr. A. Mallock .
between Breaking [ Dec. 4 , 1906 .
] Stress and in Tensile Tests of Steel .
commencement of the test .
To compare the strength of a wire with the strength of the isotropic material is rather analogous to comparing the strength of a rope with strength of a felt made of the same fibre .
The resistance of the rope to tension would be somewhat less than three times the resistance of the felt .
The tensile strength of steel wire has been raised in some cases to more than twice the intrinsic of the material , but it is probable that , if the experiment could be tried , it would be found that the resistance to tension a diameter of the wire was inisbed .
When the condition regarding eneity and freedom from initial strain is fulfilled , I think the constancy of the sum of the breaking stress and extension per cent. , and the approximation of this sum to 68 , may be looked on as a good test of the quality and soundness of the steel .
If the sum is less than 68 , it is an indication either of or ties of structure , for it may be seen that the mere presence of parts havin a different degree of ductility , without any actual flaws , would lessen the extension , because the less ductile parts would either give first and so throw excessive stress on the rest , or if the harder parts did not extend with the rest the distortion of the neighbouring softer part would ) excessive , and so cause a breakage .
It must be noted , however , that unsymmetrical holding of the test-piece in the testing machine would produce the same result , especially in the case of hard steels where the extension is small .
See Nos. 14 to 19 and 21 to 23 in the Table , where the small extension is probably due , in part at any rate , to this cause .
It occasionally happens that the sum is reater than 68 .
This , I think , is due to the fact that what is called the breaking stress is the yreatest stress measured , which is not always the stress at the monlent of .
With very extensible steels the material at the neck gives way at surface , while still holding on in the interior .
Thus the working area at the moment of the break is somewhat less than the of the broken surface , and the interred breaking stress in such cases refers to a period of the test bef.ore the extension has reached its ultimate value .
As far as I have observed the test-pieces rarely break in the middle of their length , and there is a tendency for a neck to be formed near both ends .
gives the results of some measures of diameter which this .
It is probably due to the sudden alteration in the diameter of the test-piece beyond the working part , which causes a non-uniform distribution of stress over the cross-sections in the neighbourhood .
It should not appear in a testpiece where the diameter tapered entl to the working diameter .
VOL LXXVIII.\mdash ; A. 2 478 Stress Extension in Tests of Steel .
A Table is appended iving the numerical results of some of observations .
The general conclusion which I draw from the relations observed to hold between breaking stress extension and contraction of area , is that the various treatments and chemical compositions of ordinary mild steels ( whether carbon nickel or nickel chrome ) , though operating powerfully on the limits distortion , have but little effect on the intrinsic strellgth of the material .
E. Extension per cent. on a length of 2 inches .
B. Breaking stress in tons per square inch of original cross-section .
S. Sum of breaking stress and extension .
D. Measured diameter at break .
F. Intensity of stress at broken surface ( to the nearest ton per square inch ) on the assumption that B. was the stress at the time breakage occurred .
denotes nickel steel .
U. means that the axis of the test-piece was bent , as well as extended .
This may be due to the want of homogeneity , but is more the result of the test-piece not being held symmetrically in the testing

