228 Solar Eclipse of 1900 , May 28 .
[ Dec. 17 , " Solar Eclipse of 1900 , May 28.\#151 ; General Discussion of Spectroscopic Results .
" By J. Evershed , F.R.A.S. Communicated by the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee .
Received December 17 , 1902 , \#151 ; Read January 22 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) In a general way the conclusions arrived at from the discussion of the spectra obtained in 1898 are amply confirmed and extended by the present results .
It is now shown that every strong dark line of the solar spectrum exceeding Rowland 's intensity 7 is found in these spectra .as a bright line ; and the great majority of the bright lines of the flash spectrum , excluding hydrogen and helium lines , coincide with dark lines of intensity not less than 3 .
Most of the bright arcs of the flash spectrum are well-defined narrow lines admitting of considerable accuracy in the measures , and the present determinations of wave-length indicate that the coincidence of the bright lines with the dark lines is exact within -05 t.m. for all the well-defined lines .
As regards the relative intensities of the lines of any one element in the flash and Fraunhofer spectra , my previous results require modification and extension as follows : The relative intensities of isolated lines of an element in the flash spectrum are in general , but not exact , agreement with those of the same element in the solar spectrum , and those lines which are exceptionally strong in the flash are in most cases lines which are enhanced in the spark spectrum of the element .
All of the more prominent enhanced lines of iron and titanium , as determined by Sir Norman Lookyer , are found to coincide with strong lines in the flash , but owing to the compound nature of some of the lines , it is not certain that all of these have abnormal intensities in the flash .
There is no evidence of differences in the relative intensities of the lines of an element in the higher or lower regions of the flash layer , and the enhanced lines appear to predominate throughout the entire depth of the radiating stratum .
The enhanced lines are equally prominent in the polar regions and in low latitudes , and the flash spectrum generally is now found to be the same in all latitudes and shows no essential change after an interval of five years .
An explanation of the abnormal intensities of the enhanced lines in the flash spectrum is now offered , which depends on the assumption of a continuous circulation of the solar gases in a radial direction ; the highly heated ascending gases giving the predominant features to the flash spectrum , whilst the cooler more diffused gases , slowly subsiding , determine the character of the absorption spectrum .
1902 .
] On the Energy of Magnetisation .
The entire chromosphere is supposed to consist of innumerable small eruptions or jets of highly-heated gases similar to the so-called " metallic " prominences , which are only the more pronounced manifestations of the same eruptive agencies .
Evidence for this is found in the characteristic features of the chromosphere , and in the detailed structure of many of the Fraunhofer lines , which show wide emission lines underlying the narrow absorption lines .
These ill-defined bright lines in the normal solar spectrum are distinctly displaced towards the violet , indicating a strong uprush of the hotter gases , whilst the narrow absorption lines are almost in their normal positions , and appear to indicate a slow and uniform descent of the absorbing gases .
The final conclusion is that the flash spectrum represents the emission of both ascending and descending gases , whilst the Fraunhofer spectrum represents the absorption of the descending gases only .
" On the Electrodynamic and Thermal Relations of Energy of Magnetisation/ ' By J. Larmok , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Sec. R.S. Received January 2 , \#151 ; Read January 22 , 1903 .
1 .
There appears to be still some uncertainty as to the principles on which the energy of magnetised iron is to be estimated , and the extent to which that energy is electrodynamically effective .
The following considerations are submitted as a contribution towards definite theoretical views .
The electrokinetic energy of a system of electric currents i-2 , . . .
, flowing in complete linear circuits in free aether , is known to be 2 ( Any + 12N2 + . . .
) ; wherein Ni is the number of tubes of the magnetic force ( a , / 3 , y ) that thread the circuit and is thus equal to J ( la ny)dS extended over any barrier surface S which blocks that circuit , ( a , / 3 , y ) being circuital ( i.e. , a stream vector ) so that all such barriers give the same result .
As under steady circumstances ( a , / 3 , y ) is also derivable from a magnetic potential V , which has a cyclic constant iiri with regard to each current , this energy assumes the form ^2JV( av av av .
7ri l-zr \#151 ; e ?
S , V ox oy in which the integrals are now extended over both faces of each

