]\gt ; Properiies of Table III .
mounted on Novembcr 1 , ) , { llld submitted rying from 100 ampores downwards .
On , it adjuHled for .
The } that there is an itial diminutiou of , and that theJJ the resi , emni n tant .
is this mnterial ; gely uccotlnt : is varni s to the th .
room .
The :arc th fore not he .
ronstanry bility t the tzing .
Icssl .
I. ttlH { H. .
Hodd ( ivcn ) ) of this , but II out of the bIlIts .
) Student ] ratol s in the oratol .
also me .
1 to thi ; to of hnost 1 Iron By unic Dr. J. ived J th iron supplied by ] the , Io ir Abel , , 1 whom he1lt to .
John Hopkinson , and is to l'ure this pnrc iron not beexl dircctly for di of duc to netic hystcresis , it would be interest i tc ) .
Soc. l'ro ol .
) Mr. E. Wilson .
its magnetic propert : it is referred to as Pnre Iron II .
The sul stances obher than iron in this specimen are stated to be\mdash ; rbon .
Silicon .
Phosphorus .
Sulphur .
Manganese .
Trace Trace None 0 .
This ring has an internal diameter of cm .
, an external diamet of cm .
, a depth of , and is wound with sixty-one turns the secondary coil nexb the iron , and -nine turns for the prima .
or coils .
The method of test*employs a ballistic galv nometer , is that in use in the Siemens Laboratory , College , London , where the present experimenbs were carried The currents in the primary circuit were supplied by storage ce and measured by balancing the potential difference due to in a standard resis \fnof ; gance against a Clark 's cell .
current meter in the circuit was only used for convenience djustment .
Quoting from the commuuication above referred to , Pnre Iron ives t following induction curve at atmospheric temperature:\mdash ; Iron II has been tested under two conditions : ( a ) as after careful annealing .
The resuIts are given in Tahle ] which also contains the results obtained by Professor Ewing from mple of transformer plate rolled from }edish iron .
The figure of Professor Ewing eJating to hysteresis are exceptional low , ftnd hough annealing bas conSlderably improved the Tron IT , it is still inferior to the transformer plate .
On tljer hand , of this ) iron after annealing 1 high , having a value 5490 for .
The coerci force for is C.G.S. units .
The figures in Table I relating to Iron II after have been ) tained by interpolation the actual observed datJ given iu Table II .
An induction density of 15,270 for tlIau the author remembers having seen .
In fact , values of abont 10 or 12 this specimen is exceptionally good , as own by the very high pormeability .
* ' Ro .
Soc. Proc vol. 63 , p. 352 .
'Prooeedings Institution of Civil Engineers , ' vol. 126 , p. 185 .
Ma Properties of ahnost pure lron .
Table I. funits persqua e Table II .
Whilst the experiments , the author noticed was ) parenb m gnctic instability allt [ while nvestigate this closely .
It iced , is well if the maguotising bo riod from one maximum value through to a value , say , to the then coercive force of the , that tapping tho pecimen will produce a considerable of tion ; or , if tbo observed kick on a ballistic galvanometer circuit with a se( coil wound on the specimen ) due to change be added bo ( hc observed kick when the magnetising force is raised to 1Ir . .
Wilson .
the opposite maximum , the sum does not equal the whole kick would be observed if the force were at once varied from the on maximum to the other .
ring the interval the magnetism appea ] .
to continue to down , so that the change which lastly take place not so great as it would be if such apparent settling did not occur .
Experiments were made to investigate the effect wheti the limit of were ( a ) large and ( b ) small .
It is assumed that the itlstr ] meant crives the true time integral of curl.ent .
( a ) lfaximum , coercive force C.G.S. units .
maximum force of 924 C.G.S. units was suddenly varied zero to , and tho secondary circuit kept closed until to the left and right were , the periodic time of the galvano meter neecUe being seconds .
The scale is gradnatod from he left to 1000 on the right , and the readings taken were 351 , 623 giving a difference of 272 , corresponding to a change cf per square ccntimctre of 12,630 C.G.S. units .
WlJen the magnetisn had settled down , as was shown } ) closing secondary key with extra resistance in its circuit , and ving no deflection on bailistic galvanometer , a suitaf ) extra resistance lvas inserted , anc the force suddenly raised to its maximum value , the observed deflec .
tions were 362 , 627 , the difference 265 corresponding to These results were many times repeated .
The total change of induction produced a deflectio ] ) 662 , 330 , the difference corresponding to .
We have therefore to account for a difference of 5560 , or 18 per .
of the total change one maximum to the cther .
The zero , wljen the spot of light is perfectly steady , is 495 , and we can see that when making the first change from one ximum thro zero to fo the deflection to the left is 143 as against 128 to the -hereas when making the second change the deflections are li33 to the Ieft and 132 to .
There is evidence of a change continuing in the same direction , since the first elongation is greater than the becond , and the dec rement wouId only account for about 1 per cent. This effect was nexb observed in a slightIy different manner .
of force from one maximum through zero to the lbet c.oercive force was cffected , and the secondary circuit closed ac k1lown intervals of time after change .
The resuIts are given in Table III .
It will be seen from the figures that about 30 per cent. comes out after the first second has elapsed , and that the result is cally ttIe same , the charging potential difference be that due to ten or fifty-six cells .
With a total reversaI from one maximum to the other no such effect was observed , the change taking place immediatcly .
Having the force from one maximum Magnetic Properties of almoijt pnre Jron .
Table III .
Timc in seconds Change o to a Yalue equal to the then cocrci force , the specimen as pped four times with : piece of wcod , at each stroke it lelivered 105 , 40 , 56 , 30 C.G.S. ullits .
square centimetre in the lirection of acquircment of magnetism .
imutll B :3770 , maximum .
The force was ried from one maximum through zero to and a deflection orresponding to ) observed .
The figures in Table give hc results obtained by closing the secondary circuit known of time after One would expcct induction to } ) affected in this caRC , siucu it is tho stecp part of the ctlrve : the figures jned given Tablo .
cond. . .
of cells cxclttng through rc81stance .
The curve in fig. 1 shows this effect clearly ; he ) oints 1 for any force show the observed change of induction density when secondary key is raised second , 1 second .
reversal , Mr. .
Wilson .
FIG. 1 .
kept down permanently as in the ordinary way .
When observing the deflections for the in fig. 1 , the five cells used for exciting had placed across their terminals a condenser of 4 microfarads capacity .
We are dealing with a Yery steep curve in these experiments , that is to say , the rising portion for the ) forces is very nearly per .
We observe that it is on the steep portions that hese effects been noticed , and such eifects could very easily be produced by a slow change in the magnetising force .
Such slow might arise from the heating of resistances in he circuit if these b of carbon ; this was looked into and only metal nces used .
The of the circuit might , large enough , delay the magnetising current and produce the effect .
We have seen that it is practically the same whether the applied potcntial be that due to ten or fifty-six uells .
In any case the self-induction can be The Properties of almost pure lron .
375 ately calculated in our case .
Take the curvs fig. 1\mdash ; we see creases 57,50 , whilst increases .
The total change is 9860 , nce the cross sectional area of the specimen is .
cm .
)rresponds to a change of ampere , and taking the volt as our tlit and the primary turns at 50 , we { ind , where the coefficient of self-induction , If be the applied potential and the resistance of the circuit , the current at any time aftel circuit can be expressed by .
For second the nrrent hns ts value within exceedingly small quantiby .
the of periment one to test the rapidit ) with which the cnrrent rises ifs maximum value .
Let a balance be made , say wlen { he currcnt is such thnt the force is equal to the oercive force of the mnterial .
Now suddenly reverse the force from ts maximum to this valuc .
The immediate depression a key tells at once if the clurrent is still balanced .
The current mmediately aft .eversal , that is to within second , cerainly attnined its to or cent. The condonser no material effcct the rapidity with which he ined inaxi m. We can only conclud } hat effect is to the iron itself , and be fluenced , si the not divided .
The subject as affected by in dnced currents been dealt with in { of a having a core 12 inches a aving a diameter of 4 inches .
the of ou ] .
} ) iron specimen is circular instead of il would ] of mm. Tf we assume cond property we can infer crhly trom inch ntngncts the of ents in our ) would be .
Take )-inch For reversal of ximum Hthe hnrl died ) in bout 4 seconds .
Similar events will the ) corc , ) at times varying as : ) is , we shonld elYccts to have subsided in ) second .
Take the 4-inch reversal of netism H the effects subsided in about 40 seconds : gives sccond .
It , probable that the induced currents in the Iron I I may something to do with the effects in this paper , it is difficult to account for such times as 5 and * of ution of Electricnl Engineers , ' vol. 24 , No. 116 Trartb , vol. 186 , pp. Mr. E. B. H. lVade .
On a new Method of seconds , unless the molecule itself is sidered .
This effcct been in laminated speclmens .
of king with alternate currents , the core 1 subdivided , order to investigate the elfects observed , using tt method in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' vol. 53 , p. 352 , the necessity for the very accurate control and measurement of force .
Small variations of this force would at once mas the effects observed .
Tn the pape ] .
nlentioned considerabl difference observed between cyclic curves obtained with tb ballistic galvanometer and by means of aIternate currents havin frequencies of ] .
per econd in the case of a laminated har steel ring for maximum .
On the other hand , no differe1lce as observed in the case of a laminated soft iron ' was It fvould seem the experiments this paper the amplitude of induction would not be so great hi frequency and small induction density , and this is of import ance in the case of iron cores for transformers .
It is worth that when working on rings with the ballistic induced currents may acconnt for apparent netic instability .
Mr. H. H. Hodd has helped me in the experimental part of paper , and here to tender him my thanks .
' On a new Iethod of Determining the Vapour Pressures tions By .
B. H. Communicated by J. J. .
Read lslay 13 , 189 ( Amplitied Abstract , received December 22 , 1897 .
) On a ious occasion I gave some boiling points of salt solutions under atmosphel'ic prcssure .
As the dimensions of that abstrnct made a full account of the mefhod impossible , I been given this opportunity , by the courtesy of tho Conncil of the Royal Society , of deSCl'ibingt ] ) and procedure by which those ults obtained .
S 1 .
nlbies to be The exact determination of ooiling points of solutions bas been attended hitherto with a good deal of .
The boiling point of the pure solvent is first determined .
Salt is then added , and boiling point is .
The experiment consists , in facf , of two parts , and the difficuIty lies making the circumstances in which the ) of the experimellf was carried out identicnl with ' EJectriciaI September 9 , 18 ) , pp.

