408 Mr. W. H. Preece .
[ May 27 , May 27 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On some Thermal Effects of Electric Currents .
" By William Henry Preeoe , General Post Office .
Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received April 28 , j 1880 .
I have been engaged for some time past in experimenting on the thermal effects of electric currents , but the final results of those experiments are not sufficiently ripe at present to justify my bringing them before the Royal Society .
I have , however , obtained one result which I believe to be sufficiently novel to justify a short preliminary note ; The most striking facts elicited by these experiments are : 1 .
The extreme rapidity with which thin wires acquire and lose their increased temperature .
2 .
The excessive sensibility to linear expansion which fine wires of high resistance evince .
Now as the rate of heating , and therefore of expansion and contraction , varies very nearly directly as the increment or decrement of the currents , when these variations are very small , it occurred to me that if a long wire of small diameter and high resistance were attached to a sounding board , or to the centre of a disk ( such as one of those used for telephones and phonographs ) and it formed part of a circuit conveying telephonic currents , sonorous vibrations ought to be reproduced .
The sketch shows the arrangement of the apparatus used for the experiment .
A was a stout base of mahogany , on which a brass support 0 was attached so that it could slide and be fixed at any distance from D. I ) was at first a disk of thin paper , and then of thin iron .
P was the wire experimented upon whose loose ends were connecte to terminals on the wooden base , so as to be inserted in the circtti containing a microphone transmitter M and a battery B of six bichromate of potash cells in another room out of hearing .
A platinum wire of 0*003 inch diameter and six inches long from to p ' was first used , and the sonorous effects were most marked a\#174 ; 1880 .
] On some Thermal Effects of Electric Currents .
encouraging , when the microphone transmitter M was spoken into .
The articulation , though muffled , was clear , and words'could easily be heard .
1 .
Experiments were first made to determine the length which gave the loudest sound and the clearest articulation , and , after repeated trials with every variation of length from one inch to six feet , it was found that a wire six inches long gave the maximum effect .
2 .
Experiments were then made to determine the diameter of the wire that gave the best effect , and after repeated trials with every gauge drawn from 0'0005 inch to 0'005 inch , it was found that wire of the diameter O'OOl inch gave the best effect .
3 .
Experiments were then tried with wires six inches in length and 0'001 inch diameter of different materials , viz. , gold , iron , aluminium , silver , copper , palladium , and platinum , and they came out in the following order of merit:\#151 ; Platinum ... . .
Very clear .
Aluminium Very variable .
Palladium Clear .
Iron Clear .
Copper ... . .
Faint .
Silver Faint .
Gold Very poor .
4 .
The effect of mechanical strain was tried .
It was found not to vary the effect .
When once the requisite tension , which varied with 410 On some Thermal Effects of Electric Currents .
[ May 27 each metal , was obtained , further tightening up did not vary the clearness or loudness of articulation .
Gold would scarcely bear the tension required to reproduce sonorous vibrations , hence its low position .
5 .
Very thin carbon pencil , -0625 inch diameter , was tried under compression and under tension , but no effect whatever was experienced unless a bad joint was made , when at once a faint microphonic effect was apparent .
6 .
No sibilant sounds whatever could be reproduced .
7 .
That the effect was due to heating and cooling was shown by the fact that it was possible to increase the current to such a strength as to render the temperature of the wire sensible to the touch , and then to make its elongation and contraction by low sounds evident to the eye .
It therefore appears from these experiments that wires conveying those currents of electricity which are required for telephonic purposes expand and contract as they are heated and cooled , and as the variations in the strength of the current are small compared with the strength of the current itself , the expansion and contraction vary in the same ratio as the condensation and rarefaction of the air particles conveying the sonorous vibrations which produced these vibrations .
The mechanical changes , or molecular vibrations in the wire , due directly or indirectly to telephonic currents , which result in the reproduction of sound , bear a close analogy to the mechanical changes due to the direct transmission of sound , but with this important difference , that while the vibrations due to sound are progressive along the wire , and their velocity is low and easily measured , those due to thermal effects are practically instantaneous , and therefore affect simultaneously the whole length of the wire .
( Received May 27 , 1880 .
) Note.\#151 ; De la Rive , in 1843 ( vide " Electricity , " vol. i , p. 304 ) , observed that an iron wire emitted sounds when rapid discontinuous currents were passed through it , but he attributed the effect to magnetism , for he failed to obtain the same effect in non-magnetic wires like platinum or silver .
Graham Bell found , in 1874 , that a simple helix without an iron core emitted sounds , and ( in 1876 ) that very distinct sounds proceed from straight pieces of iron , steel , retort carbon , and plumbago when conveying currents .
Professor Hughes showed that his microphone was reversible , that is , that it could receive as well as transmit sonorous vibrations .
Mr. Weisendanger ( " Telegraphic Journal , " Oct. 1 , 1878 ) reproduced sounds on a microphonic receiver , which he called a thermo1880 .
] Strained Material , Leyden Jars , and .
Btone , and attributed the effect to its true pause , viz. , the expansion of bodies under the influence of heat , which , in fact , is the explanation of all microphone receivers .
Ader reproduced speech by the vibrations of a wire conveying currents of electricity , but he found that only magnetic metals were effective , and therefore , like De la Rive , he attributed the result to magnetic agencies .
( VideCount du Moncel , " Telegraphic Journal , " March 1 , 1879 .
) .
These and many other sonorous effects of currents on wires may be really due to such heat effects as I have desciibed .
II .
" A Preliminary Account of the Reduction of Observations on Strained Material , Leyden Jars , and Voltameters .
By John Perry and W. E. Ayrton .
Communicated Pio-fessor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received April 17 , 1880 .
It has been shown by Dr. Hopkinson that , if two Leyden jais be made of the same glass , but of different thicknesses .
1st .
If they be charged with the same difference of potential for equal times , discharged for equal times , and then insulated , that the residual charge will , after equal times , have in both cases the same difference of potential .
2nd .
That residual charge is proportional to exciting charge .
These propositions may be included in one law the superposition of simultaneous forces is applicable to the phenomena of residual charge .
All the investigations in Dr. Hopkinson 's paper in the " Transactions of the Royal Society , " vol. 167 , part 2 , serve to^prove this law , and , so far , they support the theory of residual charge , which we owe to the late Professor Clerk Maxwell .
We should , therefore , be inclined to think that one of the best methods of investigating the relation between the relative powers of different glasses to possess residual charge would be simply to charge jars made of these glasses for the same gieat length of time , discharge for the same short intervals , and insiilate , measuring in each case the time increase of soaking out of the residual \#166 ; charge .
Whatever the thickness of the glass or the amount of the original charge , we know that the same glass will always give the same proportion of residual charge at the same times from insulation .
Any change of the state of the glass caused by heat would be shown as a change on the curve of increasing residual charge .
Ihere seems to be no doubt that this method would give what may be called a measure of the specific power of producing residual charge phenomena of the glass experimented on .
In this way , since 1875 , we have obtained a considerable number of

