V. " On the Action of Dibromide of Ethylene on Pyridine .
" By JOHN DAVIDSON , Esq. Communicated by Dr. HOFMANN .
Received May 24 , 1861 .
Pyridine , as is well known , has been obtained in the destructive distillation of coal , of certain varieties of shale , and of animal substances .
The specimen with which I worked was obtained from coal-tar , and separated by distillation from the picoline : it boiled constantly at 118 ?
-5 C. A mixture of pyridine and dibromide of ethylene gradually darkens , and at last becomes brown ; no crystals , however , are deposited ; on the other hand , the reaction proceeds with rapidity at 100 ?
C. After the lapse of three hours the mixture is converted into an almost black crystalline mass , from which , by successive treatment with cold , and crystallization from hot , alcohol , a beautiful bromide , crystallizing in silky plates , is obtained .
In preparing this bromide , it is advisable to add to the mixture of the anhydrous substances about one-fifth or one-sixth of its volume of alcohol , and to digest in sealed tubes .
The whole liquid solidifies in this manner into a silky crystalline mass , which is only very slightly coloured .
The crystalline bromide is extremely soluble in water ; I did not succeed in getting crystals from the aqueous solution .
It is very soluble in boiling , but dissolves only slightly in cold alcohol ; the boiling alcoholic solution solidifies on cooling into a pearly crystallille mass .
Larger and transparent crystals may be obtained from dilute solutions , but in no case were their forms sufficiently perfect for determination .
The simplest expression arrived at in analysing the bromide is the formula 6 H7 NBr* ; but the mode of formation of the new compound unmistakeably shows that this expression must be doubled , and that the composition and weight of its molecule is represented by the formula C12 H14 2 Br2 Pyridine , then , imitates triethylamine and triethylphosphine in their deportment with dibromide of ethylene , the new bromide being formed by the union of one molecule of the latter with two molecules of pyridine , C , H4 Br , +2 C5 H6 N=C2 H14 N , Br , .
The constitution of pyridine itself is but imperfectly made out .
All we know is that this substance is a tertiary monamine ; the nature of the radicals which replace the hydrogen is as yet uncertain .
Pyridire , in accordance with our present knowledge , may be represented by the expression ( Cs , ) " N , and the molecular construction of the new bromide may be expressed by the formula H ( 0 , I , )N " ' Ni"rt [ ( C2 H,1 ) ( C0 J ) " N ] Br2 .
The composition of the bromide is confirmed by the analysis of the chloride and platinum-salt .
Dichloride.-Treatment of the dibromide with chloride of silver yields the corresponding dichloride as a crvstalliie and extremely soluble substance , containing ClN Cl 1 1 ) ( 0C5 " N ) ' " NI Ci .
12 14 222 4 ) ( C )J 'N 2* Platinum-salt.-The solution of the above salt yields with cdi chloride of platinum a pale yellow and apparently amporp , house precipitate , insoluble in water and alcohol , and bit slightly soluble in boiling concentrated hydrochloric acid , from which , on cooling , if almost entirely separates in small brilliant yellow plates , which were found to contain C , 1H , N , ; Pt , Cl , [ ( C2 H 15)f ( ]0 N 1 , , 2 Pt C,1 .
The solution of the dibromide , when mixed with freshly precipitated oxide of silver ili the cold , furnishes a tratnsparent colourless and powerfully alkaline liquid which contains the corresponding base , viz. the hydrate of ethylene-dipyridyl"diammonium , c1 H,16 N 0 , [ ( C 2 , ) 2(C I ) " N ] } The existence of this compound in the solution is readily proved by saturating with hydrochloric acid , and adlding dichloride of platinum , when the pale yellow platinum-salt previously mentioned is precipitated .
This salt was submitted to analysis .
The hydrates of the diatomic pyridine-derivatives are far less stable than Professor Hofmann 's ethylated bases in the nitrogenand phosphorus-series .
Even at the common temperature , much more so by ebullition , the solution of the free base becomes pink , violet , and finally ruby-red , and deposits after some time a brown powder , a peculiar odour like that of the heliotrope being at the same time evolved .
I have not examined more minutely the changes which the pyridine-compound thus undergoes .
The above experiments were performed in Dr. lIofmann 's laboratory .

