]\gt ; 25 ] II .
of Rontgen and Becquerel Rays , and the required to prodnce an Ion in Gases .
By E. RUTHERFORD , M.A. , B.Sc. , Macdoncld Professor of Physics , and R. K. McCLUNG , B. A. , Demonstrcxtor in Physics , McGill University , Montreal .
by J. J. THOMSON , Received June 15 , \mdash ; Read June 21 , 1900 .
THE primary object of the investigations described in this paper was the determination of the amount of energy required to produce a gaseous ion when Rontgen rays pass through a gas , and to deduce from it the energy of the radiation emitted per second by uranium , thorium , and other radio-active substances .
In order to deterlnin the " " ionic energy\ldquo ; ( as it will be termed brevity ) , it has been necessal'y to make a special investigation to measure accurately the heating effect of X rays when the rays are absorbed in metals , and also the absorption of the rays in gases .
The method employed to determine the ionic energy was briefly as follows : total energy of the rays emitted per second was determined by measuring the heating effect of a known proportion of the rays when absorbed in a metal .
The total number of ions produced by complete absorption of the rays in the gas was deduced from measurements on the current produced by the ionization of a known volume of the and of the absorption of the rays in the gas , assuming the the ionic recently determined by J. J. THOMSON .
On the assumption that all the energy of the X rays is bsorbed in in the gas , the total energy of the rays , divided by the total number of ions ) roduced , is a measure of the energy required to produce an ion .
In the course of the investigation the following subjects have been :\mdash ; ( 1 .
) Measurement of the heating effect of X and the total energy of the rays emitted per second .
( 2 .
) Efficiency of a fluorescent screen excited by as a source of light .
( 3 .
) Absorption of X rays in gases at different pressures .
( 4 .
) Energy required to produce an ion in gases , with deductions on\mdash ; Distance apart of the charges of ions in a molecule .
Minimum potential required to produce a spark in ases .
( 5 .
) Rate of emission of energy from the radio-active substances , uranium , thorium , radium , and polonium .
VOL. CXCVI .
27.2.1901 .
PLOFESSOR F. UTHERFORD AND .
R. K. McCLUNG Effect of Experiments on the heating effect of Rontgen radiation have been made by DORN .
* The rays partly absorbed in metal foil placed in one bulb of a differential airthermometer .
The heat absorbed by the metal was communicated to the gas and the resulting change of volume observed .
In order to obtain a measure of the heat supplied , the heating effect due to a current in a wire placed inside the bulb was obsel .
Ved .
MOFFAT has deduced the energy of X rays from photometric of a fluorescent screen with the Hefner amyl lamp , assuming the efficiency of a fluorescent screen excited by X rays as a source of light .
Knowing the value of the energy of visible light of the Hefner standard , the heating effect of the rays can be deduced .
In determining the heating effect of the rays , difficulties arise from which measurements of the heatin effect of weak sources of visible light are free .
In the first case , the inconstancy of an -ray bulb as a source of radiation for measurements extending over long intervals is always a cause of trouble .
In the second place , the X rays are only slightly absorbed in thin metal foil , while light rays are completely absorbed at the surface of thin metal coated with lampblack .
Only a small portion of the energy of the rays is absorbed in passing through thin metal foil , and in consequence a bolometer like LANGLEY'S , where the change of resistance of a very thin metal sheet , due to heat supplied by the rays , is obseryed , is not very suitable for measurements on the energy of X rays .
Ordinary thermopiles are open to grave objections , as will be explained later in this paper .
In order to measure the heating effect of the rays , a specially designed platinum bolometer was employed , and the heating effect was determined from the change of resistance of the platinum .
Description of ( Fig. 1 .
) A platinum strip , about 3 metres long , 5 centim. wide , and 003 centim. thick , was wound on an open mica frame made as light as was compatible with rigidity .
The frame was 10 centims. square , and of a shape shown in fig. 1 .
The platinum strip was wound round and round the frame , the strips on the front of the frame the corresponding ones at the back , but not touching them .
The platinum ( fifteen complete turns in all ) was held in position by notches in the side of the mica frame , the distance between each turn of the strip was 1 millim. Vied .
' vol. 63 , p. 150 .
'Roy .
Soc. Edin .
Proc 1898 .
ON ENERGy OF RONTGEN AND BECQUEREL RAYS , ETC .
plane on a wooden base .
Two of these grids were constructed as similar as possible , and mounted in the Resistance of each grid ohms .
Area of platinum surface of grid sq .
centims. of platinum , but , on account of the wind .
The X rays incident on the grid for the most part passed through two thicknesses ngs not completely ovel.lapping , rays in X-ray photograph of the grid , which is sketched in fig. 1 ( b ) , the aded some portions passed through one thickness only .
This was clearly shown an platinum .
portions are the areas where the rays only passed through one thickness of the The absorption of the rays in the mica frame was slight , and it wasollly c very careful inspection of the photo ra that observed .
For the rays at the outline of the frame could be after passmg through the grid .
oye ' the intensity was cut down to 45 of its value Focus Tube .
The rays were excited in an automatic focus tube of the pattern shown in fi with a platinum coil , using aWehnelt interru cat ode .
The tube was excited by a large anode and an alumllu cathod was always kept the samelthupteron a 110-volt circuit The alternative and there was about 5 inches .
The bulb was a very hard one , working of the bulb in order to keep the rapid succession of sparks across A during the length acuum constant .
The constancy of the rays of the same de fgrea mportance in these experiments , in to obtain the vacuum of bhe gas in the tube and produces ra gree penetration .
A diminution of the spark length lowers of lower penetrating power .
PROFESSOR E. RUTHERFORD AND .
R. K. McCLUNG After the coil for 10 seconds , the platinum plate became red-hot and remained fairly constant during the next 30 seconds .
It was generally found advisable to run the bulb at intervals for a quarter of an hour before beginning measurements , in order to get it into a steady state for the emission of rays of constant intensity .
Under these conditions experiments could be made from day day with a maximum variation of intensity of 30 per cent. , and generally with much less .
Fig. 2 .
The bulb employed gave out rays of great intensity and great penetrating power .
A fluorescent screen was brightly lighted at a distance of 20 feet from the bulb .
With a " " soft , tube and less intense rays , it would have been difficult to measure the heating effect with accuracy .
Wehnelt Interrupter .
The Wehnelt interrupter was of a simple pattern .
One lead plate was placed inside a thick glass vessel ( a Leclanche cell used ) with three holes about 1 millim. in diameter bored in one side .
The glass vessel was placed inside an ebonite box with a lead electrode , and was filled with dilute sulphuric acid in the usual manner .
acid was kept cool by having a water circulation through a coil of lead pJpe the ebonite box .
By suitably tapering the holes in the glass the lnterrupter was made to work steadily at a slow speed and strong discharges the coil .
The E.M.F. employed volts and oye vo ts and the current was about 15 ampel.es . .
The average number of breaks per second was 57 .
In the course of more than months ' work the glass vessel was only replaced once , on account of the gradual increase of the diameter of the holes .
ON ENERGY OF RONTGEN AND BECQUEREL RAYS , FTC .
Arrangement of Fig. 3 shows the general arrangement of the experiment .
The bulb and coil were completely enclosed in a small lead-covered room connected to earth .
The rays passing through a circular hole in the lead , covered with aluminium , fell one of the platinum grids A. A pencil of the rays , after traversing the grid , passed through a rectangular hole in the thick lead plate , and made the air a partial conductor inside the discharge cylinder D. The vessel merely served as a means of testing the constancy of the rays given out by the bulb by noting the current produced between the charged electrodes .
discharge apparatus will be descl.ibed in detail later .
Fig. 3 .
The two grids A and formed two arms of a Wheatstone bridge ( fig. 4 ) .
The other two arms were formed by a manganin cylinder potentiometer of 22 ohms , corresponding to a length of about 25 lnetres of .
A sensitiye esistance galvanometer was employed , and the deflection read with telescope and scale .
The balance was first obtained for a momentary passage of the battery cul.rent .
The rays were then turned on for a given time , genel.ally either 30 or 45 seconds .
The rays falling on the grid A were partly absorbed and heated the platinum to a slight extent , and the resistance consequently changed .
The deflection zero was noted immediately after the cessation of the rays .
In order to obtain a measure of the heating effect , a steady current sent through the grid A for the same time as the rays acted .
The magnitude of this current was adjusted until the deflection from zero was the same as for the rays .
30 PROFESSOR E. RUTHERFORD AND MR. R. K. McCLUNG When this is the case , the amount of heat , , supplied per second by the rays is equal to the amount of heat generated by the current : gramme calories , where current through the grid , and resistance of the grid .
The heating effect due to the rays was small and consequently care had to be taken to avoid disturbances of the balan ce due to outside causes .
The grids were enclosed in a lead vessel with an aluminium window in front of the grid A. A thick covering of felt completely enclosed the lead vessel .
Between the bulb and the grid there was one plate of aluminium 1 millim. thick and two sheets of thin aluminium , besides the felt covering .
A lead screen in addition could be placed over the hole H. When the hole was covered thus with the lead plate , there was no disturbance of the zero , showing that the rays falling on the grid were responsible for the heating effect and the rays alone .
In practice it was found necessary to remove the sensitive astatic galvanometer employed a considerable distance away from the induction coil before the magnetic disturbances due to it were negligible .
This necessitated additional leads , and in consequence more troublesome changes of the balance .
For the most part , however , the changes of the balance point were gradual and , if necessary , could be accurately allowed for during the short time the grid was exposed to the rays .
Two observers were required , one start and stop the rays and to note the electrometer deflections , and the other to observe the galvanometer deflections .
With the aid of a simple system of signals , the experiments presented no serious difficulty .
In order that the rays should be , as far as possible , of constant intensity when falling on the grid , the hole in the lead plate between the bulb and the grid was covered with a lead screen , operated from a distance , during the first 15 seconds after the rays were turned on .
By means of a cord the screen was suddenly removed and the rays stopped after a definite time by breaking the current .
The following table is an example of a succession of observations extending over several hours : \mdash ; Time of exposure to the rays seconds .
Testing current through the grids ampere .
Deflection of galvanometer in millims. 17.0 18.6 18.4 17.8 Mean value Deflection of electrometer in scale divisions per second .
5.17 5.53 5.33 5.27 Mean deflection ON ENERGy OF RONTGEN AND BECQUERFL RAYS , ETC .
In order to measure the amount of heat corresponding to this deflection of the galvanometer , a steady current from a separate battery was passed through the grid previously exposed to the rays and for the same time .
Fig. 4 shows the connections .
As it was necessary to determine the change of zero immediately the passage of the a definite time , the arms of the bridge were undisturbed , and consequently a portion of the heating current passed through the grid Fig. 4 .
Resistance of grid exposed to rays second grid ohms .
Total resistance of the other two arms and leads , ohnls .
If be the current from the battery supl ) , purposes then , Current through , , Heating effect on gramme ories .
Difference in amount of heat supplied to We thus see that most of the heating effect is confined to the From a special series of experiments it was found that the deflection fi.omzel .
of the galvanometer in a given time due to the heating by the ent was very closely proportional to the square of the current .
It was therefore not llecessaly experimentally the exact value of the current to give the same deflection the but from observations on one known current the results could be obtained by interpolation .
It was found that under the same conditions as the table given above , a ampere gave a mean deflection from zero in 30 of divisions .
The mean deflection due to the rays was divisions .
PROFESSOR E. RUTHERFORD AND .
R. K. McCLUNG Thus the amount ofheat supplied to the grid per second by the rays 000141 gramme calorie .
In the first stage of the investigation a null method was employed to measure the heat of the rays , but unexpected difliculties arose , and the method was abandoned .
The battery current was kept steadily flowing through the grids , and the balance obtained .
During the time the rays were on , a portion of the current through the grid was shunted through a resistance of known value .
The value of the shunt resistance was adjusted until there was no change of the balance immediately after the rays were stopped and the shunt circuit broken .
It was difficult , however , to obtain satisfactory results , partly on account of the inconstancy of the rays , but chiefly on account of the slight difference of heating effect of the two grids for equal currents .
The strength of current through the grid was generally of an ampere , and with this current the inequality of the grids was immediately seen by a change of balance , when the current was applied for some time .
The addition of a shunt to one grid caused a variation of current through both grids , and the change of temperature , due to inequality of the grids , introduced an error which was not negligible compared with the small heating effect of the rays .
The method was not so rapid or certain a the one finally employed .
Measurement of Heating Effecb by Thermopile .
Some experiments were made to see if a thermopile was suitable for a measure of the heating effect of X rays .
The only thermopiles in the laboratory were of the ordinary solid type of 65 bismuth antimony couples .
The thermopile was placed inside a metal tube covered with aluminium at one end and a rock-salt plate at the other .
With a sensitive low-resistance galvanometer a deflection of 15 millims. could be obtained in 30 seconds .
The rate of supply of heat was standardised by using a standard Hefner amyl-acetate lamp , the total radiation from which has been determined in absolute measure by TUMLIRZ.ae It was observed that the thermopile , when exposed to the X rays , took up its final temperature very much more slowly than when exposed to the radiation from the lamp , and that the results obtained differed considerably from the bolometer method .
The cause of the discrepancy lies in the unsuitability of a solid thermopile for measurements on X rays .
The radiation from the lamp faUing on the lampblack coating of the thermopile is absorbed at the surface of the metal , while the X rays penetrate a distance of the order of 1 millim. before much of the energy is absorbed .
On account of this , the maximum rise of temperature near the surface of the junction on which the E.M.F. depends is less 'Wied .
Annal vol. 38 , p. 640 .
ON ENERGY OF RONTGEN AND BECQUEREL RAYS , ETC .
with X rays than with light for equal intensities of radiation .
The deflection of the galvanometer is thus less for X rays than for light-waves of equal energy .
From these considerations it is obvious that the solid type of thermopile is most unsuitable for such work ; but a modified thermopile of thin plane sheets ofmetal , iron and constantin , would probably give better results and be simpler to manipulate than the bolometer .
With thin sheets the heat would be equally distributed over the cross-section due to diffusion , and no appreciable error would arise .
The method , however , has the objection that the amount of heat must be standardised by a known lamp or source of radiant energy .
Total Energy of the cmitted ' Second .
When X rays on a metal plate , the plate is heated , and the question at once arises whether we are justified in assuming that the energy of the rays stopped by the metal plate is transformed into heat in the plate .
The experiments of PERRIN , SAGNAC , and J. J. THOMSON have clearly shown that when X rays strike a solid body , secondary rays are set up which ionize the gas and act on a photographic plate .
These secondary rays are of a far less penetrating character than the rays that excited them ; but on account of the ease with which they are absorbed in the gas , the amount of ionization per cub. centim. in the gas near the surface of the body may be greater than that due to the direct rays .
The total number of ions produced by the scattered rays depends to a great extent on the density of the metal as well as on the intensity of the incident rays .
The total number of ions produced by complete absorption of the scattered rays is generally only a small proportion of the number produced by complete absorption of the direct rays .
Assuming that an ion in both cases requires the same expenditure of energy to produce it , the energy of the scattered rays is thus only a small proportion of the total energy of the incident rays .
The secondary rays are set up both at the points of incidence and emergence of the rays fallin on the grid .
The heating effect on the grid is thus less than the heat equivalent of the energy of the rays stopped by the grid by the portion of energy used up in exciting secondary rays .
The correction is probably small , and has been neglected in these experiments , but it is hoped in a future investigation to determine its value .
There is no evidence that the chemical energy of platinum is in any way altered by the passage of the rays through it , and , as as our present knowledge goes , the energy of the rays stopped minus the energy of the scattered radiation , is transformed into heat within the platinum .
In a case where there is a chemical change , , when the fall on a photographic film , the heating effect would not be the equivalent of the energy absorbed .
It has been shown by and other observers that the intensity of tlje rays given out from the front surface of a platinum plate of a focus tube is ) oximately VOL. CXCVI .
\mdash ; A. PROFESSOR E. RFORD AND MR. R. K. McCLUNG equal in all directions .
In the experiment the rays fell normally on the centre of the grid , but on account of the size of the grid , the intensity of the rays could not be considered constant over its surface .
The intensity of the rays diminishes , and the obliquity of the angle of incidence increases from the centre of the grid outwards .
In consequence of this , a greater proportion of the incident radiation is absorbed at the edges than at the centre .
The intensity of the rays was cut down to about45 of its incident value in passing normally through the grid .
It can be shown , by approximate integration over the surface of the grid , that for the distance of the grid from the source of the rays , namely , 26 centims. , and the dimensions of the grid , the actual energy absorbed is about 2 per cent. less than if the rays had the same intensity over the surface of the grid as at the centre , and had fallen normally at all points of the grid .
For the special bulb employed , it was shown that the rate of supply of heat to the grid was equal to 00014 gramme calorie per second .
This corresponded to a maximum rise of temperature of about 1/ 200o C. Distance of the centre of the grid from the source of the rays centims. Area of grid sq .
centims. Now55 of the incident radiation was absorbed in the grid .
Total energy of the rays falling on the grid is approximately gramme calorie per second .
Therefore the total heating effect due to all the rays emitted from the front of the plate ( omitting absorption in the glass , air , and screens ) gramme calorie per second , or 046 watt .
Now the number of discharges per second in the bulb was 57 , and TROUTON* has shown that the duration of the rays during each discharge of an induction coil is less than second , and probably about second .
Assuming the average duration of the rays for each discharge second , the rate of emission of energy while it lasts gramme calorie per second .
The heating effect of the sun 's rays falling normally on 1 sq .
centim. surface is about gramme calorie per second .
The maximum rate of emission of energy as X rays from the bulb is thus about 56 tmes greater than the amount of energy per sq .
ce-.n , d.ue to the sun 's rays .
'Brit .
Assoc. Report , ' 1896 , ON ENERGY OF RONTGEN AND BECQUEREL RAYS , ETC .
.35 Efficiency of Fluorescent Screen a Source of Experiments were made to determine the efficiency of a fluorescent screen as a transformer of Rontgen radiation into visible light .
Photometric observations of the light emitted by a fluorescent screen , excited by X rays , have been made by A. MOFFAT , deduced the energy of the rays , by assuming that the coefficient of transformation of the energy into visible light was 4 per cent. , the value found by E. WIEDEMANN for the transformation of radiant energy into luminescence .
It was not the object of this investigation to make a complete photometric comparison , but to deduce an approximate coefficient of transformation for a definite experimental arrangement which could readily be reproduced in practice .
For this purpose a piece of fluorescent screen was placed over one of the diffusive surfaces of a Lummer-Brodhun screen , and the diffused light of the screen compared with the diffused light of the amyl lamp in the usual manner .
The ratio of the square of the distance of the screen from the bulb to the square of the distance of the lamp was taken as the ratio of the intensities of the light emitted by the -ray bulb and lamp .
In this case the amount of the light of the amyl lamp absorbed in the plaster of Paris surface was neglected .
Dr. shown that a piece of blotting-paper reflected over 80 per cent. of the light incident upon it , and it was found experimentally that the plaster of Paris surface of the screen was a still better reflector .
The current in the discharge vessel was determined , during the measurements of the energy , in absolute measure , and also during the comparison of the screen with the amyl lamp , in order to correct for changes of intensity of the rays during the observations .
In this way it was found , using a platino-barium cyanide screen , that Now if the intensity , , of the visible light from a Hefner amyl lamp is given by from the experiment of TUMLIRZS the value of for the visible light is equal to 00361 gramme calorie per second , and the total energy radiated by the lamp times the energy of the light radiation alone .
in the experiments with the ometer the heating effect of the rays incident 'Roy .
Soc. Edinburgh Proc 1898 .
Wied .
Annal vol. 37 , p. 233 .
Phil. Mag uary , 1893 .
S ' Wied .
Annal vol. 38 , PROFESSOR E. RUTHERFORD AND MR. R. K. McCLUNG on the grid , area sq .
centims. , at a distance of 26 centims. from the source of rays , for the same strength of rays as those incident on the fluorescent screen , was 00032 gramme calorie per second .
I , and the value of , which represents the amount of energy due to the rays falling normally on a surface of 1 sq .
centim. at a distance of 1 centim. from the source of rays gramme calorie .
The intensity of the X rays was thus of the intensity of the visible light of the standard Hefner lamp .
Now the efficiency of transformation of X rays into light since it was found electrically that of the rays were absorbed in the screen .
The efficiency of transformation is thus per cent. If we assume that 85 per cent. of the incident light is diffused from the surface of the Lummer-Brodhun screen , the efficiency of transformation is about per cent. A calcium tungstate screen , in which the absorption was , gave almost the same efficiency of transformation .
The results we have obtained a simple means of expressing the intensity of X rays in absolute measure , assuming the coefficient of transformation of a fluorescent screen to be about 4 per cent. rTwo ) eriments would be necessary\mdash ; ( 1 .
) The intensity of the light from the screen would be compared with a Hefner standard lamp .
( 2 .
) The absorption of the rays by the screen would be measul.ed electrically or photometrically by placing a portion of the screen to absorb the rays .
Let and be the intensities of X rays and a Hefner standard lamp in absolute measure , disregarding absorption of rays in glass , metal screens , air , \amp ; c. When there , equality of illumination let and be the distances of the source of rays and lamp from the Lummer-Brodhun screen .
Let and be the distances for equal illumination when the rays pass through a piece of the screen before falling on the Lummer-Brodhun screen .
Then , the tio of traIlsmitted to incident rays for the fluorescent screen , is .
by Ratio of incident energy absorbed ON ENERGy OF NTGEN AND RAYS , ETC .
Therefore it is readily seen that since efficiency is per cent. Thus , since gramme calorie , gramme calorie .
Thus two simple photometric comparisons would be required to express the energy of the radiation of any particular bulb in absolute measure .
For penetrating rays the absorption in the cardboard of the screen is negligible , but if necessary it can readily be allowed for .
The chief source of difficulty in the comparison is the difference in colour between the light from the Hefner lamp and a fluorescent screen .
The fluorescent light appears a greenish-blue , and the amyl lamp a reddish-yellow , when seen side by side in the telescope of a Lummer-Brodhun screen .
Some experiments were made using a coloured glass to make the sources of light more nearly a match in colour .
A greenish coloured glass was found to give a good colour match when interposed between the screen and amyl lamp .
On determining by means of a thermopile the amount of the visible energy of the Hefner lamp which was allowed to go through the glass , it was found to be so small ( less than 2 per cent. ) that a special investigation was required to find the coefficient of transmission with accuracy .
The experiments were not continued , owing to lack of time , but the evidence showed that by using a coloured screen in the path of the amyl lamp to give the same tint as the fluorescent screen , the efficiency of the transformation of the screen was much higher in that case than the 4 per cent. ined by using no coloured glass or solution .
Energy to produce an Ion .
The method employed to determine the energy required to produce an ion in gases exposed to Rontgen rays depended on the measurement of the heating effect of the rays , and of the total number of ions produced by the radiation in the gas .
If is the number of calories given out per second by the rays , and the energy in ergs of the rays emitted per second , then JH . . . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) .
If is the average amount of energy required to produce an ion , then . . . . . . . . . .
( 2 ) , where is the number of ions produced per second , supposing that all the energy of the rays , absorbed in the gas , is due alone to the production of ions .
PROFESSOR E. RUTHERFORD AND MR. R. K. McCLUNG In order to determine the number of ions , , it is necessary to measure the maximum current that can be produced between two electrodes when all the ions produced by the rays in the gas reach the charged electrodes before there is any appreciable loss of their number due to recombination .
If is the maxlmum or current through the gas , then where is the charge on an ion .
The value of has been determined by J. J. and is equal to electrostatic unit .
From ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) JH , therefore In order to determine it is thus necessary to determine the value of and The considerations on which the method is based are : ( 1 .
) When the X rays are absorbed by a solid substance , the greater portion of the energy is given up to the substance in the form of heat .
( 2 .
) The energy of the rays absorbed in passing through a given volume of the gas is used up in producing ions .
( 1 ) has been considered earlier in the paper , and it has been shown that we are probably justified in assuming that a very large proportion of the energy due to rays absorbed in a substance like platinum is transformed into heat .
A small proportion of the total energy is used up in setting up secondary rays at the point of incidence of the rays on a solid conductor and also at the point of emergence .
In regard to ( 2 ) , one of the authors has previously shown that the absorption of the rays in a gas is roughly proportional to the intensity of the ionization in the gas .
Gases and vapours , which are made good conductors by the rays , also strongly them .
The absorption of the rays in the gas has no direct connection with the molecular weight or density of the gas .
For example , in hydrochloric acid gas the rays are far more readily absorbed than in carbonic acid , a gas of greater density .
PERRIN has shown that the ionization of a gas is approximately proportional to the pressure .
This result has been confirmed by us , and the authors have also found that the absorption of the rays varies directly as the pressure , i. e. , as the ionization of the gas .
These results point to the conclusion that the absorption of the rays in a gas is closely connected with the number of ions produced .
It is possible that there is a certain amount of scattering of the rays in passing through a gas , but if the apparent absorption of the rays were due in any great measure to scattering , we 'Phil .
Mag Dec. , 1898 .
THERFORD , 'Phil .
Mag April , 1897 .
gas , due to the passage of all the ions produced between charged electrodes , as the kS rays could pass through several hundred metres of the gas before approximately @ complete absorption took place .
In practice the number of ions produced in a known small volume of the gas is determined , and also the coefficient of absorption of the rays by the gas .
The total number of ions that would be produced , provided all the rays were absorbed , can be directly calculated .
An account will now be given of the experiments performed to measure the absorption of the rays in gases .
Absorption of the Rays in Gases .
The bulb employed gave out rays of great intensity and penetrating power , and the absorption of the rays in air was small .
About 3 per cent. of the rays were absorbed in passing through a metre of air at atmospheric pressure and temperature .
In order to measure the absorption , a delicate null method was employed .
No direct method can be employed on account of the smallness of the absorption and the variation of the intensity of the rays during the experiments .
Fig. 5 shows the general arrangement of the apparatus .
A similar method was employed by one of on a previous occasion to measure the absorption of the rays in gases .
Two long brass tubes , centims. long and centims. in diameter , were placed horizontally at a slight angle to each other , and in such a position with regard to the bulb that the axes of the two tubes met at a point on the surface of the platinum plate of the anticathode .
The ends of the tubes were covered with * E. RUTHgRFORD , ' Phil. Mag April , 1897 .
, 1 ltUTHLRFORD AND MR. K. McCLUNG ninm C millim. in thickness , and were made air-tight and capable of standing The rates of discharge due to the rays after passmg pressure of 3 tznosp eres .
the tnbes , were taken between two sets of parallel , CD and The were of the same size and cut into three portions , of the centre were carefully insulated .
The centre plates were thus surrounded by a gnard ring , and the rates of discharge to the centre plates alone were measured .
The centre and , were connected together , and to one ir of quadrants of the electrometer , the other pair of quadrants being connected to earth .
The plates , and , were connected to the terminals of a battery of small storage cells of 310 volts , the middle point of was to .
The electrometer will show no deflection if the intensity of the rays between and is exactly equal to the intensity between , since the current between and is equal and opposite to the current between and Lead screens , , were placed at the positions marked in the figure , in order to prevent any stray radiation from reachin the testing plates .
The wires leading ) the electrometel were enclosed in metal tubes , which were connected to in order to avoid any loss of charge due to stray radiation or disturbances by electrostatic field .
The electrometer was completely surrounded by a wire gauze The separation of the quadrants of the electrometer was operated from a distance by means of able keys .
Such precautions are very necessary during the very dry winter , when the slightest movement causes frictional electrification .
The table the woodwork on which the apparatus was placed was covered over with metal , to prevent the collection of charges either from frictional electrification or the action of the near rged conductors , ON ENERGy OF RONTGEN AND RAYS , ETC .
The tubes were first adjusted so that the rays caused no movement of the electrometer needle .
The tube , , was then rapidly exhausted means of a Fleuss The intensity of the rays after emerging from the tube was thus greater than the tube on account of the less ption , and the electrometer thel.efore showed a deflection .
If the tube were exhausted and the tube A filled with air , the electrometer gave a deflection in the opposite direction .
If the end of one of the tubes was closed with a thick lead plate so that no could get through , then the rate of movement of the electrometer needle corresponded to the intensity , I , of the rays after emergence from the other tube .
If is the coefficient of absorption of the in the gas , then ] intensity of the rays after passing through a distance of the tube is its value if there had been no absorption .
Since the currents between and and between and ol tu the intensities of the radiations between the plates , then , if is small .
In order to determine , we thus require the ratio of the numbel of divisions second , given by the electrometer needle from the balance when of them is exhausted , to the number per second when the end of the tube containing the gas is with a thick lead plate .
The following table gives the results ir at ) essures in one tube ranging from 5 of an atmosphere to 3 atmosphel.efi , the other tube being exhausted:\mdash ; 5 secs .
with one tube in 20 secs .
screened .
Number oivisions i The above results are the mean values of a series of measurelnents .
The esults for 5 of an atmosphere were obtained at a diffel.eIlt time the others and with rent sensitiveness of the electrometel .
The table shows that the ptio of the rays in the gas is approximately pptional to the pressure .
The value of was 118 centims. The value of A for different pressures is thus given by the following table:\mdash ; VOL. CXCVI.\mdash ; A. value of and } ) obtained the same bu ftel .
daily use for two months found to be .
The value of at pressure ) el.ature in the tions is taken as the mean of these two values , is thus given by .
It is probable that the rays not homogeneous , and the value of must be considel.ed as the mean value for the different kin of rays .
On account of the vely small absorption of the it was difficult to determine with accuracy the absorption for pressures lowel than half an atmosphere .
The results , however , indicated that the ption was , roughly , proportional to the pressure for still lower pressures .
The value of was determined for carbonic acid gas at nol.mal pressure and temperature .
The absorption was times that of , and the value of was found to be 000457 .
The results were confirmed by varying the pressure of the air in one tube until there was no disturbance of the electrometer zero .
The esults agreed with the value obtained above , assuming the absorption in air is proportional to the pressure .
We see from the results given above that the radiation is reduced to half its value with no absorption after passing through a length of metres of air at ordinary pressul.e and temperature .
The of uranium is , or the absorption is 6000 times as great .
uranium as for the X employed .
The value of obtained some years for a much " " softel " " bulb was , or about four times the absorption of the bulb employed in these experiments .
of the Current through the In order to the amlmomlt of ionization in a known volume of , the pparatus shown in fig. 6 was employed .
The rays passed into a brass cylinder , 12 centims. in diameter and 30 centims. in length , through a rectangular orifice , , at one end covered with an aluminium vindow , milI i. in thickness .
Inside the cylinder two parallel ectangular plates , .
RUTHERFORD , ' Phil. lIag January , 1899 .
ON AN1 A and BCD , were fixed on woode1l ) late opposite to A was cut into three parts , , and was insulated and D. ) A connected to one pole of a battery of 310 volts , the ) of which connected to earth .
The plate was connected to one ) of , of the electrometel the other pair of which was connected to earth .
plates were in connection with the cylinder , which connected .
The thus corresponded to a partial plate served oses .
The electric field uniform frolll to most ) radiation set up at the two ends of the .
was } ) between between A and , and thus did not ) oduce aation between ( A large lead plate , , with a rectangular orifice , so placed ] ) source passed into the cylindel , and did not fall on the parallel } ) lateH .
This avoided the presence of secondary radiation .
The two ends of the cylinders were covel.ed inside with cardboard in order to make the amount of secondary radiation as small as possible .
The amount of radiation set up at the sul.f:ice of air and very small .
The amount of insulating material inside the cylinder was reduced as possible in order to avoid the collection of free on then ] , and disturbance of the electric field .
this reason ) wooden frame instead of an ebonite one .
wood sufficiently good conductor to quickly discharge any electrification eaclled its The current between and A is thus due only to the ions ich were ) the passage of the rays between them .
The length of the plate was centimf .
, measuring the ntre of the spaces .
The distance between the plates cent PROFESSOR ) AND MI , K. IsIcCLUNG the cylinder , passed through a rectangular ol.ifice in a thick lead plate .
Knowing the Ilce f source of the and the area of the the area of a section of the cone of at any point in the cylindel could be determined .
The esnlts calculated in way were compared with the area of the impression on plate at distances from the ol.ifice , and it was found that .
the correction to apply for the source of the , not being a point source , was negligible .
Let I. be the intensity of the rays at the beginning of the plate , and the area of the cross-section of the cone of at that .
The energy crossing the surface per second is If there no absorption of enel.gy in the gas , the energy crossing the cross-section of the cone at the further end of the plate would be the same as at the .
But in consequence of absorption the energy crossing the surface per second is where length of the plate , and the coefficient of absorption of the rays in the gas .
The energy absorbed in the gas per second is equal to if is small , was the case in the experiments .
The between the plates A and was determined for a voltage sufficient to move all the ions to the electrodes before any appreciable recombination could take place .
total number of ions produced per second .
current between the plates through the gas .
charge on an ion .
average energy to produce an ion .
and ; . .
The value of was determined from the heating effect of the rays , as explained in the earlier part of the ) ) Let intensity of the rays at the surface of the bolometer .
transmission ratio of the rays when passing through the platinum grid .
Then energy absorbed in the grid per second , where area of grid .
the value of the intensity over the surface of the grid , and equal to the at the centre , the total energy absorbed in the grid is slightly less than ON ENERGY OF AND RAYS , the above amount , and it has been shown earlier in the paper that very approxilnately the energy absorbed in the grid .
In practice the current in the discharge cylinder was observed at the same time as the effect .
The cylinder was behind the platinum grid in such a position that the rays entering the cylinder passed slightly to one side of the centre of the grid , thus ayoiding the mica frame of the bolometer .
The rays before entering the cylinder were cut down in intensity by their passage through the by the enclosing envelope and the aluminium window in the discharge cylinder .
Let transmission ratio of the rays through the platinum grid felt cover aluminium window , \amp ; c. distance from source of rays .
Let distance of the beginning of the plate in the discharge cylinder from the source of the rays .
Then it can easily be seen that ( 1 ) .
The factor is nearly equal to unity , and is the correction for the absorption of the rays in the gas between the grid and the discharge cylinder .
If is the number of heat units communicated to the bolometer per second , then JH . . . . .
( 2 ) , and ( 3 ) .
Dividing ( 3 ) by ( 2 ) and substituting the value of from ( 1 ) , we obtain ; .
of The value of determined by an ometer with an capacity of 00248 of a microfarad in parallel .
The heating effect on the bolometer and the quantity electricity discharged between the plates of the cylinder were observed at the same time .
A lead screen cut off the rays from the platinum grid and the discharge cylinder for 15 seconds after the bulb had started , for it was found that the rays gradually increased in intensity for the first 10 or 15 seconds .
At the end of 15 seconds the lead screen was suddenly removed by a cord operated from a distance .
After the passage of the rays for 30 or 45 seconds , the rays were stopped .
The deflection from the zero of the bolometer was taken by one observer , the I RUTHLRFORD AND .
R. K. CLUNG deflection of the electrometer was taken by another .
In the later experiments the capacity of the electrometer and connections was of the capacity added , and the total capacity of the circuit was 00257 of a microfarad .
The following is an example of the determination of in electrostatic units:\mdash ; 1 Clark cell of volts E.M.F. gave 570 divisions on the electrometer scale .
The deflection of the electrometer due to the passage of the rays for 30 seconds was 1 divisions .
quantity of electricity per second electrostatic units .
of the of the Ra .
is in the Bolometer , the Aluminium Window , The values and were determined electrically by utilising the discharge cylinder of fig. 6 .
The rate of discharge in the cylinder was observed with the grid before the in the lead plate and then without the .
The ratio of the currents in the two cases is proportional to the ratio of the intensities , since the nization is proportional to the intensity of radiation .
A mean value of the ratio for different portions of the grid was taken , and it was found that .
It is thus seen that the tensity of the radiation was cut down to alittle more than half in passing through the platinum grid .
) value of was determined in a similar manner .
The intensity of the rays in this case was cut down more in consequence of passing through thickness of felt , an aluminium window of 1 centim. thickness , and a thin layer of aluminiuln , as well as the platinum grid .
The value found for this ratio was The absorption of the rays in the mica frame appears in the values of and The absorption , however , small and practically negligible in any case .
Dimensions of and of Constants .
area of the rectangular hole througl which the rays passed into the discharge cylinder , and from which was calculated , was .
centims. The length of the centre plate in the discharge cylinder was centims. For most of the expel.iments , the distance of the grid the of rays was centims. , and the distance of the hole in the lead ) late from the source centims. Area of platinum was .
centims. Mean value of Value of electrostatic uuit .
The correction for the absorption in ] air between the grid and the discharge cylinder was negligible .
ON OF AND RAYS , The following table gives the values of rent t of the exposure to the rays : The mean value of , the required to produce an ion in at pressure and temperature , is by The energy required to produce positive and .
tive ion neutral molecule is twice this amount , and one ion Illot be without the other , then erg is the lallest of ions in air .
The mean intensity of the in absolute measure the of the bolometer is given by JH .
Taking the value of as orie , find that ergs .
account of the short duration of the discharge , the maximum intensity of the radiation at any is probably tbousand times greater than the aboye The energy absorbed per secolld in .
ions in the cylinder erg , taking E. .
unit .
This absorption of energy is spread throughout a.volume of over 100 cub. of the gas , so that the absorption of energy pe cub. the air is small .
The value of , the ionic energy , is seen to delJend on the elilent of the current through the gas , the coefficient of absorption , and the effect of the rays .
The absorption of rays in the bas to be determined tely f the current and heating effect , and uncertainty on account of PROFESSOR RFORD AND .
R. K. McCLUNG the variation of the penetrating power of the rays as the bulb varies .
The value of determined for the rays , under diffel.ent conditions as regards the frequency of the Wehnelt interl.upter , was found to be approximately the same , after the bulb had been in constant use for several months .
It is probable that the type of rays does not on an average vary much from day to day , but the greatest source of .
is probably due to the assumption that the rays are homogeneous in character .
RoNTGEN and others have shown , from experiments on the absorption of successive thicknesses of metal , that rays not simple in character , but contain rays of widely different order of penetrating ) ower , so that the value of is the mean value for the different types of The value of also depends upon the value of , the charge on an ion , and if future investigations should assign a different value to , the value of would be altered in a like ratio .
ergy required to produce an lon other Gases .
When the energy required to produce an ion in one gas is known , the energy required to produce an ion in another gas can be determined from the ratio of the absorptions of the rays and the intensity of ionization in the gases .
Let and be the number of ions produced per cub. centim. in two gases .
Let and be the coefficients of absorl ) tion .
Let and be the energies required to produce ions in the two gases .
Let and be the maximum currents through the gases .
Then for the same intensity of rays , slnce and , assuming charges on the ions are equal .
Therefore The ratios and can be readily determined , and if is known , then an be calculated without recourse to expel.iments on the heating effect of the rays each case .
The ue of , the ratio of the absorption coefficient of carbonic acid gas to that of , .
was found to be for the rays employed .
The ratio of the current in and carbonlc acid gas for a potential difference of 300 volts was found to be Therefore the energy required to produce an ion in carbon dioxide erg .
ON ENERGy OF RONTGEN AND RAYS , ETC .
value is a little higher than in the case of air .
TIue measured amount of the current in carbon dioxide , was somewhat less than the , since the electromotive force applied was not sufficient to move all the ions to the plates before recombination .
A correction for this would make the values for air and carbon dioxide more nearly equal .
Taking the value , found by J. J. THOMSON , the relative ionization in carbonic acid and air , the ionic energies are nearly the same .
The results for air and carbon dioxide show that the energy equired to produce ions in the two gases is not very different .
The results of a previous paper showed that the absorption of X rays in gases was proportional to the ionization produced .
From this it follows that the equired to produce ions in the gases examined was , roughly , the same .
The results obtained with uranium ) showed that the total number of ions produced by complete absorption of the radiation in air , oxygen , hydrogen , carbonic acid gas , hydrochloric acid gas , and ammonia were the snme .
The results in that case were more readily obtained as the adiation was almost completely absorbed in a few centims. of the gas , and the maximum current through the gas was a measure of the total number of ions produced .
The recent results of MCLENNANS also point strongly in the same direction .
In his experiments , cathode rays were passed out of the discharge tube into another vessel , and the maximum current produced by the cathode rays was found for different gases .
Using a constant supI ) of cathode rays , the current , , the total number of ions produced , was independent of the nature of the gas ( provided the pressure of the gas was adjusted to give the same absorption of the rays in each case ) .
The gases examined were air , hydrogen , oxygen , , carbonic acid , nitrous oxide , and the total number of ions produced in them was nearly the same .
Assuming that the same ) roportion of energy of the cathode rays was used up in producing ions in the gases , it follows that the energy required to produce an ion in all the gases is the same .
The results on the ionization of different gases by the agency of Rontgen , Becquerel , and cathode rays all strongly point to the conclusion that the same energy is required to produce an ion whatever the gas .
Variation of Ionic ?
oith ressure .
It hae been shown earlier in the paper that from half an atmosphere to three atmospheres ' pressure the absorption is proportional to the .
A ) ecial *J .
J. THONSON , ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc vol. 10 , Part I. E. RUTHERFORD , ' Phil. Mag April , lS97 .
E. RUTHERFORD , ' Phil. Mag January , lS99 .
S Roy .
Soc. Proc 190O ; Phil. Trans VOL. CXCVI.\mdash ; A. PROFESSOR E. RUTHERFORD AN1 ) MR. R. K. McCLUNG .investigation has shown that for the same range the intensity of the ionization is also approximately proportional to the pressure .
This shows that for the pressures examined the ionic energy is independent of the pressure .
The results on the variation of absorption with pressure for uranium*and thorium radiation also point to the same conclusion .
In order to fully establish such a general law that the energy to produce an ion is independent of the gas and its pressure , a large number of careful experiments will be required .
The results so far obtained can only be considered to show that such a law is approximately true .
It is intended to continue these investigations ) ionic energy for other gases besides air and carbonic acid .
ctions from the ) ions of the same kind are produced in a gas by rent agencies , it is probable that the same amount of energy has been absorbed to produce the ions in the different cases .
The only test we have at present for equality is to compare the velocity of the ions in the gas for a potential gradient of 1 volt per centim. J. J. THOMSON has shown that the charge on an ion produced by Rontgen rays is probably the same for the gases hydrogen , air , oxygen , and carbonic acid , and that it is equal to the charge on a hydrogen ion in the electrolysis of water .
The velocity of the ions in a given electric field depends upon the ratio of the charge to the mass of the ion , and thus if the velocities of ions produced in the same gas by different agencies are the same , the masses must be the same , since the charges are equal .
It has recentlyS been shown that the ions in the " " electric wind\ldquo ; travel in air with the same velocity as the ions produced by rays .
The energy used up in roducing the ions can thus be immediately calculated .
Let the current through the gas due to the electric discharge from a wire or point .
Energy absorbed i , n producing ions where 2 ?
is the number of ions produced per second and the charge .
Therefore , neglecting recombination of the ions , where V is the potential of the discharging wire . .
RUTHERFORD , ' Phil. Mag January , 1899 .
R. B. OWENS , ' Phil. Mag October , 1899 .
'Phil .
Trans , 1899 .
S CHATTOCK , ' Phil. October , 1899 .
ON ENERGy OF RONTGEN AND BECQUEREL RAYS , ETC .
If volts electrostatic units , then the proportion of the total loss of energy used up in the production of ions Thus quite an appreciable proportion of the total energy supplied is absort ) in producing ions .
The proportion decreases with the increase of voltage .
Distance betneen the Ions in Molecule .
If we suppose that most of the energy required to produce a positive and a negative ion from a neutral molecule is due to the work done in separating the ions from each other against the forces of electrical attraction , we can at once form an approximate estimate of the distance apart of the charges in the molecule .
The work done in separating a charge from a charge , both charges supposed concentrated at points from a distance to an infinite distance , is equal to If this is equal to the energy required to produce two ions , then since centim. approximately .
The average diameter of an atom , calculated from various methods , is about centim. This is a very much greater distance than the value found for the distance apart of the charges on the ions in a molecule .
.The results support the theory advanced by J. J. THOMSON , that ionization is produced by the removal of a negative ion from the molecule , and that the negative ion is only a small portion of the mass of the atom .
The positive ion is supposed to remain attached to the rest of the molecule .
It is to be expected from the theory that the distance of the charges from each other would be less than the diameter of an atom .
The energy required to produce an ion in air is very much greater than the energy required to produce an ion in the electrolysis of water .
If V ( volts ) the least E.M.F. required to dissociate water , the work done in moving a quantity of electricity is .
The work done in producing an ion thus is or , or about of the energy required to produce an ion in air by the agency of X rays , so that in water the ions are about two atoms apart PROFLSSOR .
RUTHERFORD AND MR. R. K. McCLUNG Least Potential required to produce a Spark in Air .
The ions in the " " electric wind\ldquo ; in air have been shown to move with the same velocity as the ions produced by X rays .
It is probable that the passage of a spark between two electrodes is heralded by the production of ions the gas , and that these ions are of the same kind as the ions in air produced by X rays .
Let V be the difference of potential between two electrodes in air , one electrode being connected to earth .
Suppose a pair of ions to be produced and to travel to the electrodes .
A tity of energy erg is absorbed in their production , while the energy of the electric system is diminished by an alnount .
The energy required to produce the ions must be deriyed from the electric energy of the system .
In order for an ion to be produced consistent with the of energy , we must have V of such value that is greater than the energy required to produce a pair of ions . .
V electrostatic unit .
V volts .
Now PEACE ( J. J. THOMSON , 'Recent Researches , ' p. 89 ) has shovvn that it is impossible to produce a spark in air below about S00 volts , however close the electrodes are together .
This is a somewhat greater value than the one found above , but is of the same order .
has recently shown that the minimum potential difference for the passage of a spark in pure nitrogen is about 251 volts .
As most of the ions in air are probably produced from the nitrogen molecules , this value makes the agreement still closer .
The results obtained would indicate that it would be impossible to produce an ion , and therefore an electric spark , below 175 volts .
If the energy required to produce an ion were the same at all pressures , the minimum sparking potential according to the above theory would be unaltered .
This is borne out by results ( loc. cit. , p. 86 ) , where it is shown that the minimum potential difference for a spark between spherical electrodes 001 centim. apart is approximately the salrie for pressures from 300 to 50 millims. of mercury .
The minimum potential rises below 50 millims. , indicating that the energy required to produce an ion may possibly increase below that pressure .
This theory would suggest that the minimum potential required to produce a spark conversely might be used as a means of determining the energy to produce an ion .
The phenomenon , however , is complex than this would indicate .
The lninimum sparking potential is to a small extent influenced by the metal used for the electrodes and also by the gas , and moreover it would leave unexplained the relnarkable fact that when the electrodes are a small distance apart the spark does not follow the shortest path ( .
cit. ) between them .
'Phil .
Trans , 1900 .
ON ENERGY OF NTGEN AND tAYS , Energy of Radiation of In a previous paper it has been shown that the ions produced in air by uranium radiation have the same velocity as the ions by Rontgen rays .
On the assumption that the same amount of enel.gy is required to produce the ions , whether the agency is Rontgell or uranium rays , the enel.gy of the radiation given out into the gas can be at once determined .
Fig. 7 shows the rangement of the pparatus to determine the current through produced by the auium r Two large parallel ) lates , A and centims. ) , were each other .
A was connected to the electrometer in the usual manner , and was connected to one pole of a battery of small cells of 310 volts .
The oxide employed was placed in a square shallow hole cut in a lead ) ) on the B. The current between A and was determined ' a tential difference of 310 volts , an amount sufficient to practically remoye all the ions before tion .
Since the of the uranium surface is smadl ] the of the ] ) between which the uranium was )laced , the total energy per second elnitted surface of uranium is approximately to , where I is the intensity of radiation at the surface of the uranium .
If is the coefficient of absorption of the rays in air , and is the energy required to produce an ion , the energy absorbed per second between the 1)1 tes at a distance apart is equal to IS where is the number of ions produced per second , is the current , the on an ion .
The total energy emitted per second is to SSOR E. RUTHERFORD AND .
R. K. McCLUNG In the case of uranium it has been shown ( loc. cit. ) that apparently two types of radiation are emitted , one of which is readily absorbed in air .
The ionization due to the more penetrating rays is in general a small part of the total , especially for thin layers of uranium ; so that in the present calculation we will only consider the energy given out by uranium in the production of the more absorbed type of radiation .
The intensity of the radiation emitted from uranium falls to half its value after passing through millims. ( loc. cit. , p. 128 ) .
Therefore Since , therefore is small and may be neglected .
Thus the energy given out into the air is W. Now for a thick layer of uranium oxide ( grammes spread over a surface of 38 sq .
centims. ) the current electrostatic unit .
Thus the energy emitted per unit area of uranium surface per second erg per second , approximately .
This amount of energy would suffice to raise 1 cub. centim. of water 1o C. , assuming no radiation of heat , in about 3000 It is a difficult matter to determine the total energy given off in the radiation by a given weight of uranium on account of the ease with which the radiation is probably absorbed by the heavy metal uranium itself in its passage through it .
Some experiments were made on the current due to a given surface of uranium oxide when different depths of the active material were spread over it .
The following are some of the results:\mdash ; SURFACE of Uranium Oxide sq .
centims. The uranium oxide in the form of a fine powder was dusted on uniformly by means of a fine wire gauze .
The results show that the current per gramme of uranium oxide is greater for small than for large thicknesses .
Even with a very thin layer of uranium oxide in the form of powder it is probable that a large proportion of the ON ENERGY OF RONTGEN AND , ETC .
energy emitted ( supposed produced throughout the volume of the substance ) is absorbed in the substance itself An approximate determination of the total energy per second that can be radiated by 1 gramme of uranium could be determined by dissolving a few crystals , say , of uranium nitrate in water and pouring the solution over a large surface area .
On the water a very thin film of the nitrate would be left on its surface .
In such a case the rays produced throughout the volume of the film should reach the surface without much loss due to absorption , and the maximum current through the gas would be proportional to the total energy radiated .
In this case half of the total energy would be absorbed in the substance on which the film was placed and only half would be efficient in producing ions .
In order to obtain an approximate value of the total energy of radiation , uranium oxide in the form of a very fine dust was spread over a surface of 38 sq .
centims. Weight of uranium oxide gramme .
Current electrostatic unit .
Total energy radiated into the gas per second calorie .
Energy per gramme of uranium oxide radiated into the air calorie per second .
calorie per year .
In our present state of knowledge it is uncertain whether the radiating power is confined to the surface of the uranium or is given out uniformly throughout the mass .
In any case , the total energy radiated is probably greater than the value above on account of absorption of the radiation in the uranium itself , and also on account of the existence of a more penetrating type of radiation , the energy of has been neglected in the above calculations .
Energy of Thorium Radiation .
The apparatus employed was the same as that for .
Thorium oxide employed and the following results were obtained .
Area of surface sq .
centims. :\mdash ; PROFESSOR .
RUTHERFORD AND MR. It . .
McCLUNG In preyious papers by OWENS* and RUTHERFORD , the behaviour of thorium oxide as a radio-active substance has been carefully examlned .
It has been shown that thorium compounds give out a material emission of some kind , which possesses temporary radio-active properties .
This emanation is most apparent with thick .
layers of thorium oxide .
In the present case the layer was not thick enough to give out much emanation , and the rate of discharge was due to the radiation alone .
OWENS has shown that the radiation from thorium is approximately homogeneous .
The value of , the coefficient of absorption of thorium radiation in air , is 69 and Thus for a weight of 665 gramme the total energy radiated into the gas per unit area erg , and , on the same assumptions as for uranium , the energy radiated into the air per second , a somewhat greater value than for an equal weight of uranium oxide .
xcited Radio-activity due to Thorium compounds , in addition to the property of giving out a radio-active emana- tion , possess the power of exciting temporary radio-activity on all substances in their neighbourhood .
The excited radiation is homogeneous in character , and is of a more penetrating type than the radiation from either uranium thorium .
The intensity of the excited radio-activity can be greatly increased by concentration on the negative electrode of small area by means of a strong electric field .
On the assumption that the energy of the radiation excited on the electrode is dissipated in producing ions , an estimate can be formed of the energy stored up on the electrode .
In a particular experiment a fine platinum wire , 018 centim. in diameter and 1 centim. long , caused the separation of about 10 coulombs of electricity before the radio-active power was lost .
This corresponds to an emission of calorie .
by no means inconsiderable quantity of energy is in some way derived from the surface of a platinum wire sq .
centim. in area , without the slightest appreciable change either in the weight or appearance of the wire .
Radium Poloniurn .
The question of the equality of the velocity of the ions , produced by thorium radiation and the rays from the powerful radio-active substances radium and polonium , with the velocity of the ions produced by X rays , has not been specially investigated , but from the very close similarity of the types of these radiations , it seems very probable that the ions produced by all are the same .
'Phil .
Mag October , 1899 .
'Phil .
Mag January and February , 1900 .
ON ENERGY OF RONTGEN AND BECQUEREL RAYS , ETC .
In one respect , however , some radio-active substances , notably radium , differ in their type of radiation from X rays .
, CURIE , and others , in a series of papers in the ' Comptes Rendus , ' have shown that radium gives out a type of rays which are easily deflected by a magnet .
This emission of rays similar in character to cathode rays of low velocity is very remarkable , but does not seem to be a necessary accompaniment of a radio-active substance .
For example , GIESEL found polonium gave out rays deflected by a magnet , while BECQUEREL could obtain no magnetic action for the same substance .
The rays which are deflected by a magnet seem to be present or absent according to the mode of preparation of the substance , and depend possibly on the age of the specimens .
Two impure and not very sensitive specimens of radium and polonium obtained from pitchblende have been tested by one of us , but no magnetic action has been observed .
BECQUEREL has found no trace of magnetic action in uranium radiation , and one of the authors has tested both uranium and thorium radiations in a magnetic field at atmospheric pressure and obtained negative results .
The experiments of CURIE and BECQUEREL have shown that , in radium , two types of rays are present , one of which is deflected by a magnetic field and the other is not .
The non-deflected type is similar in character to secondary X rays , and the deflected ones similar to low velocity cathode rays .
We thus see that the phenomena exhibited by the radio-active substances are not simple , and that they differ from one to the other .
It is still possible , however , to form an approximate estimate of the energy of the radiation whatever its kin provided the energy is all completely absorbed in ionizing the gas , and produces ions of the same kind .
It seems probable that the radium rays acted on by a magnetic field are a type of cathode rays , and that they ionize the gas in their passage through it .
The results of clearly show that the energy of the cathode rays is lost in its passage through the gas , due partly to the work done in ionizing the gas in its path .
Provided the ions produced by the deflected and undeflected rays of the radio-active substances are the same , and absorb the same amount of energy in their production , the relative energies of the radiations emitted can be compared by noting the total maximum current produced by the rays when completely absorbed between the electrodes .
If the ratio of the currents between parallel plates for equal areas and thicknesses of the test substances and uranium oxide when the plates are at a sufficient distance apart to approximately absorb all the rays , the1l Energy radiated out by the test substances into the gas energy radiated by an equal area of uranium oxide .
This will probably apply roughly to the conductivity produced by the deflected undeflected rays .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 66 , 1900 ; 'Phil .
Trarls , vol. 195 .
VOL. CXCVI.\mdash ; A. I 5 8 PROFESSOR RFORD AND MR. R. K. McCLUNG In some experiments CURIE mentions using a specimen of radium 100,000 more active than uranium .
If this applies to measurement for equal weights and areas of radium and uranium , then the total energy radiated out into the gas by 1 granlme weight of radium is not less than calorie per second , or 3200 calories per year .
It is evident that , unless energy is supplied from external sources , the substance cannot continue emitting energy at such a for many years , even supposing a considerable amount of energy may possibly be del.ived from rearrangements of the components of the molecule .
In the light of the results on the amount of energy given out by radio-active substances , it is of interest to consider some speculations as to the origin of the rays , and of the supply of energy required for a continuous emission of the radiation .
We will first briefly review the state of our present knowledge of the radio-active substances .
Uranium , the first of the radio-active substances discovered , has been closely investigated .
BECQUEREL has shown that it gives out radiation constantly from year to year , even when placed in the dark .
The radio-activity is preserved in solution , and persists if the substance is recrystallised in the dark .
The radiation given out is independent of the gas around it , and of the pressure of the gas , and is not much affected by considerable changes of temperature .
The same radiation is given out by all the uranium compounds .
The radio-activity appears to depend on the uranium molecule alone , and not what it is combined with .
Pitchblende and other uranium minerals are active , and , as far as experiments have gone , continue radiating indefinitely .
In considering the question of the emission of energy per unit weight of uranium , an important point arises which it is difficult to decide satisfactorily by experiment , viz. , whether the radio-activity is confined to the surface or possessed by the whole mass of the substance .
At first sight the radio-activity appears to be superficial , since the intensity of the radiation does not increase with increase of thiokness of uranium .
Such an action , however , is to be expected , even though there is volume radio-activity , since the radiation can only penetrate to the surface from a very short depth below the surface .
The increase of the intensity of the radiation with increase of thickness for thin layers and the action of solutions support , as far as they go , the supposition that the activity is throughout the volume .
The energy given out in the interior of the substance would most probably be dissipated as heat in the material .
If the radio-active power is possessed by the whole volume , it follows from the above supposition that the mineral pitchblende must have been radiating energy since its formation as a mineral .
If we suppose the radiation has been going on constantly at its present rate in the course of 10,000,000 years , each gramme of uranium has radiated at least 300,000 calories .
It is difficult to suppose that such a quantity of energy can be derived from egrouping of the atom-s or molecular binations on the ordinary chemical theory .
ON ENERGY OF RONTGEN AND RAYS , ETC .
This difficulty is still further increased when we consider the emission of energy from radium , a substance 100,000 times more active than uranium .
The emission of energy in that case is , at least , 3000 calories per year .
If future experiments should show that radium , as well as uranium , gives out radiation at a constant rate from year to year , in order to account for such a rapid emission of energy , it would be necessary to suppose that the radio-active substance in some way acts as a transformer of energy .
Such a supposition does not seem probable , and leads us into many difficulties .
On the view , however , advanced recently by J. J. THOMSON , that an atom is not simple , but composed of a large number of positively and negatively charged electrons , the possible energy to be derived from the closer aggregation or rouping of the components of a molecule is very much greater than on the atomic theory , as ordinarily understood .
The energy required to completely dissociate a molecule into its component electrons would be nlany thousand times greater than the energy required to dissociate a molecule into its atoms .
The energy that might be derived from a greater concentration or closeness of aggregation of the components of such a complex molecule would possibly be sufficient in the case of uranium to supply the energy for the emission of radiation for long periods of time .
The sudden movements of electrons would set their charges in oscillation , and give rise to a series of electroma , gnetic pulses corresponding to X rays .
The remarkable property of some of the radio-active substances in naturally emitting a kind of cathode shows that the present views of molecular actions require alteration or extension in order to explain such phenomena .
The energy that might possibly derived from regrouping of the constituents of the atom would not , however , suffice to keep up a constant emission of energy from a strong radio-active substance , like radium , for many years .
It is of importance that experiments to test the constancy of the radiations of a powerful radio-active substance , like radium , should be carried out at definite intervals .
If the radiation should keep constant from year to year , it would be strong evidence that the energy of the radiation was not derived at the expense of the chemical energy of the radio-active substance .

