218 Dr. W. A. Tilden .
On the Condition which [ Jan. 28 , January 23 , 1896 .
Sir JOSEPH LISTER , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " An Attempt to Determine the Condition in which Helium and the Associated Gases exist in Minerals .
" By W. A. Tilden , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received January , 13 , 1896 .
Argon and probably also helium having , it is supposed , monatomic molecules , the chemical inactivity which they have been found to exhibit cannot be accounted for by the hypothesis usually applied to the case of nitrogen .
Hence it appears probable that they will not be found , like nitrogen , to enter into combination with other elements at such high temperatures as are ordinarily attainable , and experience , so far , has shown this to be the case .
It also appears improbable that in the minerals from which the mixture of gases containing helium has been extracted this element exists in a state of ordinary chemical combination , for on treating the mineral with acids no compound of helium with hydrogen has yet been observed , and the components of the minerals are of a kind which is commonly regarded as chemically saturated .
I thought it would be interesting to find out if possible whether the gas evolved on treatment with acids or on the application of heat was enclosed in cavities or was in the state of so-called " occlusion .
" Supposing no evidence to be forthcoming that the gas was locked up in one of these two ways , then some new form of chemical combination would have to be looked for .
Some monazite , for which I was indebted to the kindness of Professor Lockyer , was first examined .
The powdered mineral was enclosed in a hard glass bulb , which was sealed on to the Sprengel pump and exhausted .
The bulb was then heated in successive stages to the temperature of boiling sulphur , 446 ' .
The first evolution of gas occurred at 60 ' , but this consisted of carbon dioxide with water vapour , and the temperature being kept constant a vacuum was soon re-established .
From 70 ' to 80 ' a little more of the same gas was evolved , and on raising the temperature successively to 100 ' , 115 ' , 130 ' , small quantities , nearly equal , of carbon dioxide were 1896 .
] Helium and the associated Gases exist .
219 given off .
From 130 ' to 140 ' gas was obtained which for the first time showed the D3 line , indicating the presence of helium .
About nine-tenths of this was , however , absorbed by potash .
At 160 ' , 200 ' , and 235 ' additional but smaller supplies of gas were obtained , consisting of carbon dioxide with about one-fourth of its volume of gas rich in helium .
At higher temperatures , up to 446 ' , smaller volumes of the same mixture were extracted , indefinite and limited amount of gas being evolved at each point .
Cleveite behaved in a similar manner .
A single well-formed crystal was used , having only a small flake of mica attached to one side .
The whole weighed 3 7 grams .
Gas was first evolved rather suddenly at 110 ' , and at successive intervals of about 25 ' it gave off ' successive portions of gas containing helium .
In order to ascertain if the mineral from which the gas had been removed was capable of re-absorbing it , some massive Swedish cleveite was powdered and divided about equally between two bulbs , A and B , sealed to a small tube filled with soda-lime , and attached to the Sprengel pump .
Both bulbs were first heated to 100 ' and exhausted ; A was then heated to 160 ' , and the gas completely pumped out .
The bulbs were then shut off from the pump by a tap , and B was heated to low redness so as to generate gas within the apparatus .
This gas , from which carbon dioxide was absorbed by the soda-lime , was left in contact with the mineral in A for about nine weeks at summer temperature .
On heating A by an oil bath and working the pump no gas could be collected below 160 ' , the temperature to which the mineral had been previously heated .
This result seemed to show that cleveite does not re-absorb the helium mixture at the pressure employed in this experiment , which was probably somewhat less than one atmosphere .
The pressure could only be guessed at in this form of experiment from observation of the capacity of the apparatus and the amount of gas given off by the same mineral when heated to redness .
9 5 grams or 1*8 c.c. of this sample of cleveite gave at a red heat 15'6 c.c. of crude gas , which after contact with potash was reduced to 6 3 c.c. The mineral therefore gives 3 5 times its volume of gas free from carbon dioxide .
A second experiment , conducted on a similar principle , but with a greater pressure of gas , gave a different result .
Two bulbs were used as before , but while 10 grams were placed in A as the absorbent , 40 grams were used in B as the generator .
B was heated by means of an air bath to about 400 ' , and a mercury-air gauge attached then showed a pressure of about 2^ atmospheres .
A was first heated to 165 ' and the gas removed , and the gas having been generated in B , A was heated to 100 ' and cooled several times in contact with the gas .
The bulb A was then cut off , sealed on to the Sprengel ^ 2 220 Dr. W. A. Tilden .
On the Condition which [ Jan. 23 , Fm .
l. TO PUMP pump , and exhausted completely at air temperature .
Heated to 100 ' it gave only a tiny bubble of gas , but at 115 ' evolution of gas commenced .
and continued till the temperature of 150 ' was reached .
The interval of about 20 ' , between this and the temperature at which the mineral was originally extracted , seemed sufficient to prevent suspicion that the gas now obtained was due to the natural charge , and had not been re-absorbed .
The gas contained hydrogen , helium , and nitrogen , and amounted to about 1/ 25 of the volume of the mineral .
After ' cooling to the air temperature the bulb was a second time heated to 150 ' , but no further evolution of gas occurred .
The same cleveite in its natural state gives , when heated to 170 ' , about one-third of its volume of the helium mixture .
_ An experiment was now made with a portion of the mineral which had been used to generate the gas in the preceding experiment , and it was found that in contact with the gas at a pressure between 2 and 3 atmospheres an amount was taken up about equal ( 1/ 24 volume ) o. that which was absorbed by the mineral which had been heated only to 170 ' , but while the gas thus removable below the temperature ot 150 ' contained helium , it also contained carbon dioxide , which seemed to suggest that helium or one of the other gases by which it is accompanied is capable of displacing carbon dioxide from cleveite .
In order to test the effect of greater pressures it was necessary o 1896 .
] Helium and the associated Gases exist in 221 generate the gas separately .
It was made by heating cleveite , and was deprived of carbon dioxide by potash and of water by calcium chloride .
An apparatus was then arranged consisting of a wide , vertical glass tube , attached at its lower end to a strong canvas-cased rubber tube connected with a reservoir of mercury which could be raised to the ceiling of the laboratory .
The upper end of the glass .
tube was drawn out and sealed to a horizontal tube having three vertical branches , each terminating in a bulb .
The horizontal tube Fia .
2 .
was also attached to the Sprengel pump and to a reservoir con taining the gas , which could be shut off by a stopcock .
Of the three bulbs ( A , B , and C ) A contained 9 9 grams ( 1'68 c.c. ) of 222 Dr. W. A. Tilden .
On which [ .Jan .
23 , cleveite which had been heated to 400 ' circ .
in a vacuum ; B contained 9 grams ( T7 c.c. ) of the same which had been heated only to 170 ' in a vacuum ; and C contained 7'5 grams ( 09 c.c. ) of artificial lead nranate which had been heated to redness in a platinum crucible .
The three bulbs , with their contents , were first heated to 100 ' , and at that temperature completely exhausted of air .
Gras was then admitted till the apparatus was filled with it at atmospheric pressure .
The horizontal tube was then sealed off by the blowpipe between the bulbs and the pump , and , by raising the mercury reservoir , a pressure of nearly 7 atmospheres was obtained .
The bulbs were heated by a water bath for three days ( 18 hours ) , and the pressure was maintained during a total of about 96 hours .
Each bulb was then separately cut off , sealed to the Sprengel pump , and exhausted .
A , heated in an air bath to about 360 ' , gave 025 c.c. of gas rich in helium , but containing a little carbon dioxide .
The mineral had absorbed rather more than one-seventh of its volume .
B , heated in an oil bath , gave 0'44 c.c. gas between 120 ' and 162 ' .
This also contained much helium , with carbon dioxide .
It corresponds to more than one-fourth the volume of the mineral .
C , heated to 150 ' , gave 024 c.c. , and a further quantity , 018 c.c. at 150 ' to 210 ' .
This gas , however , consisted almost wholly of carbon dioxide with a little air , but showed no trace of helium .
The mineral cleveite , therefore , appears to be capable of re-absorbing helium to an extent which increases with the pressure , and which i-S roughly , proportional to the pressure .
The pressure under which the original mineral was charged must have been considerable , probably amounting to several hundred atmospheres .
As hydrogen is readily absorbed by certain metals , especially iron and palladium , it was thought possible that helium would also be readily taken up by the same .
A piece of thin sheet-iron was , therefore , carefully polished and heated to low redness in a bulb sealed to the Sprengel pump till all gas had apparently been expelled .
The gas extracted from Iron gave no indication of the presence of helium .
Gas from cleveite , purified from carbon dioxide and dried as before , was admitted till the pressure amounted to about five-sixths of an atmosphere .
The iron was heated to redness and cooled in contact with the gas , the excess of gas was then pumped out , and the iron heated by a Bunsen flame .
It gave a small quantity of a gas consisting of hydrogen and carbonic oxide and a little helium .
Repeating the admission of the gas , heating , \amp ; c. , the iron gave off a second time about one-third of its volume of gas of the same composition .
The yellow D3 line was weak in the spectrum of both these products from the iron , although it was very brilliant in the cleveite gas to which the metal had been exposed .
It appears , therefore , 1896 .
] Helium and .
the associated Gases exist in Minerals .
223 that though iron absorbs helium , it absorbs it less freely than hydrogen .
Similar experiments with palladium foil gave a gas consisting chiefly of hydrogen with small quantities of nitrogen and a carbon compound , hut no helium recognisable by the spectroscope .
This , of course , does not prove that no helium had been absorbed , but it shows that it is taken up much less readily than hydrogen .
Being now desirous of ascertaining whether a simple silicious mineral , containing at most minute quantities of any heavy metal , would absorb the helium-containing gas from cleveite , I chose apiece of red Peterhead granite .
In order to prepare it for the experiment , the granite was powdered , placed in a bulb attached to the Sprengel pump , and heated gradually by a flame till the glass began to soften .
Being aware that granite and other rocks commonly contain cavities charged with gas , I expected to obtain a considerable quantity of carbon dioxide .
I was , however , rather surprised to find that the gas given off from this sample of granite contained a large proportion of hydrogen .
The following are the details of one experiment:\#151 ; 15 2 grams of granite , in volume equal to 5*7 c.c. , was heated first by a Bunsen flame , and finally by a blowpipe , till the glass of the bulb softened .
It gave 14*9 c.c. of gas measured at 17 ' , which appeared to be free from water .
This gas consisted of 3*7 c.c. C02 and 11*2 c.c. H2 , or Carbon dioxide ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
24 8 per cent. Hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
75*2 " No helium could be detected in the original gas nor in the residual air left after explosion .
A section of this rock was prepared for me by Professor Judd , to whom I wish to offer my best thanks , both for the specimen and for his valuable assistance .
Under a high power ( one-eighth inch ) the section exhibits myriads of minute , irregularly shaped cavities , in some of which liquid is clearly discernible .
This liquid is probably carbon dioxide , though , from the minuteness of the cavities , we were not able to make any estimation of the critical point of the liquid .
After this granite had been deprived of gas as completely as possible , it was heated and cooled alternately in contact with the helium mixture under a pressure of about 7 atmospheres , as already described .
The mineral , however , took up none of the gas , for , after pumping out the excess of gas in the cold , the falling mercury continued to sound sharply , while the temperature of the mineral was gradually raised to a red heat .
From the results of the experiments recorded in this paper , it seems that helium exists in the minerals in which it is found in a condition comparable with that in which hydrogen is associated 224 Mr. H. E. Durham .
On Special Action of [ Jan. 23 , with many metals , and carbonic oxide especially with iron .
Whether this condition is rightly distinguished from ordinary chemical combination is a question which admits of debate .
The stability of all dissociable compounds is influenced by pressure and by temperature in the same kind of way as " occlusion , " which , like ordinary chemical combination again , is a phenomenon in which the bodies concerned exercise a power of selection .
The presence of hydrogen as well as carbon dioxide in granite , if already observed , is not known to geologists generally .
From observation on variations in the critical point of carbon dioxide in minerals ( ' J. Chem. Soc./ 1876 , ii , 248 ) , Hartley seems to infer that the incondensable gas present with carbon dioxide , is usually nitrogen .
A passage in Geikie 's 'Text Book of Geology/ third edition , p. 110 , refers to the presence of hydrogen in cavities ; but at present 1 have no information as to the evidence upon which this statement is based .
The presence of hydrogen in such a rock as granite must be attributed to the existence of this gas in large proportion in the atmosphere in which the rock was crystallised .
Whether this was the primeval atmosphere of the earth before the hydrogen had escaped or had been oxidised into water , or whether it resulted from the local action of water upon unoxidised metals or other materials in the interior of the earth , is a question which may be of some interest to the geologist .
If the former hypothesis were adopted , it would perhaps be difficult to explain the absence of helium from the gas included in the rock ; and , on the whole , I incline to the latter view , as affording the more probable explanation .
I have ascertained that hydrogen is present in even larger proportion in the granite from the neighbourhood of Dublin , and I propose to examine some other examples of the ancient crystalline rocks in order to determine the nature of the gases enclosed in them .
II , c\lt ; On a Special Action of the Serum of Highly Immunised Animals , and its Use for Diagnostic and other Purposes .
" By Herbert E. Durham , Gull Research Student in Pathology .
Communicated by Dr. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received January 3 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The following conclusions are the outcome of an enquiry into the nature and value of " Pfeiffer 's reaction , " which was made at the suggestion and under the guidance of Professor Max Gruber , of Vienna , to whom my best thanks are due .
The present communica-

