II .
" Examination of the Cerebro-spinal Fluid .
" By WILLIAM TURNER , Esq. , Scholar of St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Communicated by JAMES PAGET , F.R.S. Received May 18 , 1854 .
In the Bulletin de l'Academie de Medecine for December 1852 , a paper is published by M. Bussy , containing an analysis by M. Deschamps of a fluid , which flowed from the ear of a man who had sustained a fracture of the base of the cranium .
From a comparison between the composition of this fluid and that given by 5M .
Lassaigne as the composition of the cerebro-spinal fluid , M. Bussy arrived at the conclusion thA they were identical in their origin .
In addition , however , to the albumen and ordinary saline constituents , M. Deschamps found that the fluid obtained from the fractured cranium contained a certain constituent which possessed the peculiar property of reducing the blue protoxide of copper to the state of the yellow suboxide .
As this power of reducing the oxide of copper is possessed also by grape-sugar , M. Bussy arrived at the conclusion that this fluid contained a small portion of grape-sugar , and as additional evidence in support of this conclusion he quotes the experiments of M. Bernard , who , by irritating the base of the encephalon and the origin of the vagus nerve , produced an excess of sugar in the secretions .
He supposes that in the present instance the fracture through the base of the cranium may have produced some irritation at the origin of the pneumogastric , and thus have excited the formation of sugar .
Such a supposition would have received additional confirmation if at the same time an analysis could have been made of the blood , urine , or other secretions , so as to determine if sugar was present in those fluids-no such analysis however is given .
The property of reducing the oxide of copper was also found by M. Bussy to reside in the cerebro-spinal fluid of the Horse and Dog .
In none of these experiments was he able to induce fermentation .
As this reducing power is not peculiar to grape-sugar , but is possessed by other organic substances , such as lactine and lactucine , this test alone should not be relied on as affording any positive indications of its presence ; recourse should therefore be had to other confirmatory experiments .
With a view to determine this point , Mr. Paget , in the early part of March last , gave me for examination three separate portions of the cerebro-spinal fluid , obtained by puncturing a spina bifida in a child , several days intervening between the removal of each portion .
Those removed on the first two occasions were perfectly clear and pellucid , giving an alkaline reaction to test-paper , their spec .
grav .
being 1'006 , no spontaneous coagulation taking place after standing for some time ; that removed on the third occasion had a slightly yellow tinge , and a distinct coagulum formed in it on standing .
The presence of fibrine in this instance was owing doubtless to some slight inflammation having been set up , caused by the successive puncturings .
The three specimens corresponded in the following characters:1st .
No precipitate on applying heat , merely an opalescence being produced ; on the addition of a few drops of nitric acid a white flaky precipitate subsided .
Nitric acid alone , without heat , also caused a precipitate .
The non-precipitation of the albumen , until the addition of the acid , was owing to the alkalinity of the fluid .
2nd .
Boiled with liquor potasse a very faint pinkish tint was produced ; a few white flakes also fell down .
3rd .
Heated in a water-bath with the blue oxide of copper , in a few minutes the yellowish red powdery suboxide precipitated .
This reaction took place both in the original albuminous liquid and after the coagulation of the albumen by heat and nitric acid .
4th .
A piece of flannel , saturated with the chloride of tin , was well moistened with the fluid , and then heated over a red-hot coal ; no brown colour of the flannel was produced , such as occurs when grape-sugar is present .
( MaumenC 's test .
) 5th .
A portion mixed in a test-tube with some German yeast was placed for several hours in a warm cupboard , but there was no development of gas .
From these experiments it appears that of the various tests employed , only one gave any indication of the presence of grape-sugar , that test also being the one which is most liable to deception .
The lowness of the specific gravity , in which respect this fluid and that analysed by M. Deschamps closely corresponded , would , a priori , almost lead to the assumption that no grape-sugar was present .
The presence of the reducing agent could not in this case depend upon any irritation of the origin of the vagus , for the irritation , if any , produced by a spina bifida is at the end of the cerebro-spinal axis furthest removed from the origin of that nerve .
That the material however which effects this reduction is of a very changeable nature , was shown by allowing a portion of the fluid to stand for several days until putrefaction had commenced .
The fluid was then filtered so as to separate the insoluble albuminous flakes , and the clear liquid heated in a water-bath with the blue oxide of copper ; when , instead of the suboxide being produced , the black anhydrous oxide was formed , just as is the case when the blue oxide is heated merely with water , thus satisfactorily showing that the reducing substance had been destroyed .
The recent investigations of Virchow* and Buskt have shown that substances of a non-nitrogenous nature exist both in the brain and spinal cord , but they hold somewhat different opinions respecting their exact characters ; for whilst the former considers them to be cellulose , the latter regards them both in their " structural , chemical and optical properties " to resemble starch .
In conformity with these views , it was interesting to determine if any indications of the presence of either of these substances could be found in the cerebro-spinal fluid ; accordingly a portion of the fluid was evaporated nearly to dryness and then divided into two portions ; to one was added an alcoholic solution of iodine and concentrated sulphuric acid , when a violet tint was produced , which after a few minutes disappeared ; but it was also found that this same appearance was produced when the acid and iodine solution were mixed together alone , the violet colour being evidently owing to the volatilization of a part of the iodine and the evolution of its characteristic violet tint ; to the other a solution of iodide of potassium and then nitric acid was added , when a brown colour was produced , owing to the liberation of the iodine .
In neither portion could it be said that any evidence of the presence of starch or cellulose was detected .
A comparative trial was also made between the effects produced upon the blue oxide of copper by the cerebro-spinal fluid , solutions of grape-sugar , cane-sugar , starch , cellulose , and mannite , an unfermentizable sugar .
These various substances were heated in a waterbath for the same length of time , when it was found that whilst the grape-sugar effected a reduction immediately , and the cerebro-spinal fluid only after the lapse of several minutes , neither the starch , cellulose , cane-sugar nor mannite effected any reduction at all .
The power of reducing the blue oxide of copper is not confined to non-nitrogenous substances , for I found that if a solution of leucine* be heated along with it in the usual manner , the reduction is effected in about the same length of time , and in the same way as by the cerebro-spinal fluid .
This single experiment is not of itself sufficient evidence that the reducing power in both cases depends upon the presence of the same substance .
Such an assertion could only of course be proved by obtaining from the cerebro-spinal fluid leucine in the crystallized form .
A proper quantity of the fluid was not , however , left to investigate this point .
From the above experiments I think it may be safely asserted that the power possessed by the cerebro-spinal fluid of reducing the oxide of copper , is not owing to the presence either of grape-sugar or any of the allied substances : whether it may depend upon the presence of leucine or other modifications of albumen of a somewhat similar nature , or whether it may be due to the presence of a substance belonging to another series , is a point that has yet to be determined .
Note by Mr. PAGET.-The patient from whom the fluid analysed by Mr. Turner was obtained , was a girl born of healthy parents .
An infant cousin had lately died from the same congenital defect as she presented .
The upper part of the body was well formed , but the pelvis and lower limbs were small and nearly powerless .
The sac containing the fluid was seated over the last lumbar vertebra , projecting ( as the examination after death showed ) through an opening between its unclosed arches .
It enlarged quickly after birth , but did not evidently affect the child 's health , unless it were connected with a very frequent spasmodic action of the muscles closing the glottis , which , almost from the time of birth , had produced the peculiar ' crowing inspiration , " or laryngismus stridulus .
The fluid was first withdrawn when the child was three months old .
Neither on this , nor on any subsequent occasion , did its removal produce any manifest effect , although the flaccidity of the emptied sac indicated that the pressure upon the spinal cord was greatly diminished .
After every evacuation the sac very quickly filled again , notwithstanding pressure exercised upon it .
The examination after death showed that the fluid was collected in the expanded tissue of the pia matter , or subarachnoid spaces , about the cauda equina .
The pia matter presented appearances of inflammation long past , as well as of that which had probably been the cause of death .
The canal in the axis of the spinal cord was distinct in its whole length .
Commencing , below a large fourth ventricle , with a diameter of about one-fourth of a line , it gradually widened , till , at the lumbar part of the cord , it had a diameter of a line and a half .
Its termination at the end of the cord could not be traced in the confusion of parts caused by the distension and inflammation of the membranes .

