The Action of Plants on a Photographic Plate the Dark .
385 1 hour .
3 hours .
24 hours .
Ethylic tartrate ... ... ... .
0'9 1'2 1/ 8 " malate ... ... ... 270 57 16*0 " succinate ... ... IS^oO 14'5 204 We have to thank Mr. R. R. Armstrong , B.A. , for valuable assistance rendered in the latter part of the inquiry .
The Action of Plants on a Photographic Plate the Dark .
By W. J. Russell , Ph. D. , F.R.S. ( Received June 19 , \#151 ; Read June 28 , 1906 .
) [ Plates 19-21 .
] It has been shown in former papers that wood has the property of acting in the dark on a photographic plate , when placed in contact or in proximity to it .
Not only does wood act in this way , but leaves , seeds , roots , bulbs , and , in fact , with only few exceptions , all vegetable substances act in a similar way .
The more important bodies which are without this property are starch , cellulose , gum , sugar , pith , and pollen .
To obtain this action on a plate it is necessary that the body used be tolerably dry , or else the moisture contained in it will act on the gelatine of the photographic plate and destroy the picture .
The time necessary for the exposure to the plate varies from a few minutes to 18 hours or more .
To quicken the action , heat may be applied , but the temperature must not be above 55 ' C. , nor the time of exposure , under ordinary circumstances , longer than 18 hours , or the photographic film will be injured .
Any ordinary rapid photographic plate may be used , and its development is exactly the same as that of an ordinary picture .
The best and most general method of drying vegetable substances before exposing them to the photographic plate is to place them between pure white blotting paper and subject them to considerable pressure , say from 1 to 5 or 6 tons per square inch .
This process has also the advantage of giving a second picture , for it is found that the liquid which has been expressed and absorbed by the blotting paper is capable of acting on a photographic plate , and that it gives a good representation of the plant from which it came ( Plate 19 , fig. 1 , an oak leaf ) .
Since different woods are capable of 'acting on a photographic plate it was to be expected that leaves , stems , flowers would do the same .
This has 2 g 2 Dr. W. J. Russell .
Action of [ June 19 , been found to be the case , and the action has been traced from its commencement in the sprouting embryo of a plant till after its death .
Postponing for the present the full discussion of the cause of this activity of vegetable matter on a photographic plate , it may be assumed as a working hypothesis that the active substance is hydrogen peroxide .
As far as the activity of a plant goes , it is comparable with that of hydrogen peroxide .
For instance , if one part of pure peroxide be dissolved in one million parts of water it is sufficient to enable the solution in 24 hours at ordinary temperatures , even when the plate is ^ inch above the liquid , to give a marked action on the plate ; and , on the other hand , a seed leaf of a runner bean weighing only 002 gramme can give a similar effect .
Taking now the case of a bean , both the broad and the runner bean act in the same way ; the cotyledons when tested by bringing them in contact with the photographic plate , either whole or in a crushed state , are always found to be quite inactive ; the plumule and radicle before growth has begun is also without action , and even when growth has just commenced and the plumule lengthened 2 or 3 mm. it is still apparently unable to act on a plate , but as soon as plumule and radicle have increased in length about 15 to 20 mm. , then it has become distinctly active .
The following experiments illustrate this point:\#151 ; A plumule and radicle 8 mm. long , taken from a dry bean , was entirely inactive .
Another bean which had been in moist sand for four days , and was 13 mm. long , and just beginning to grow , was still unable to act on a photographic plate , but in another case in which the plumule and radicle had grown to the length of 19 mm. there was a faint action on the plate , and where the growth had extended to 80 mm. the liquid from this plant was distinctly active , and lastly , a young bean plant , 170 mm. long , contained a liquid which was very active .
The cotyledons remain always quite inactive .
Wheat in its ordinary dry condition is without action on a plate , but if allowed to sprout by being placed in moist sand for about two days the shoots on being squeezed between paper show considerable activity .
In fact , it appears that all seedlings contain in every part , plumule , radicle , and seed leaves , a juice which is capable of acting on a photographic plate .
If seedlings be grown in the dark they still have this power .
In addition to the bean and wheat , other seeds and fruits have been experimented with , specially acorn , horse chestnut , pea , barley , almond , and many others , and the conclusion is that in their embryo state they are devoid of all power of acting on a photographic plate , but that as soon as growth commences this power appears.* Supposing , as has more than once been suggested and is strongly urged by 1906 .
] Plants on a Photographic Plate in the Dark .
Usher and Priestley , * that formaldehyde and hydrogen peroxide are the first products of growth , this action on a photographic plate is exactly what would occur .
At the same time it must be remembered that terpenes and resins , which are so commonly present in plants , can even in very small quantities , either directly or indirectly , give rise to this body .
Nuts such as walnut , Brazil nut , Barcelona nut , etc. , act like seeds ; the endosperm is inactive in its original state , but if charged , as nuts often are , with a considerable amount of oil , this , on exposure to the air , oxidises and becomes very active .
For instance , if the kernel of a Brazil , Barcelona , walnut , or almond nut be taken out of its shell and at once crushed between blotting paper , neither nut nor expressed liquid are active , but if the paper with the expressed liquid in it be kept for a short time exposed to the air then it gives a very dark picture .
If the nut be extracted with ether and the solution evaporated , the residue becomes strongly active .
Of all nuts and seeds examined , castor-oil seed appears to be by far the least active ; the expressed liquid from it may be exposed for a month or more , and it is still without the power of acting on a plate .
The examination of different bulbs has shown that the fleshy scales forming them , from centre to outside , are active , but that the nucleus of the future plant which it contains , if in its primary state , is inactive like the plumule in a seed , but when growth has commenced it is active .
This is well seen in the snowdrop , onion , and shallot ; the shoot , if not visibly grown , is quite inactive .
The amount of activity of different bulbs varies very considerably : the snowdrop bulb is slightly active , whereas the narcissus and the tulip bulb is much more so .
This variation may probably depend to a considerable extent upon the state of development of the bulb .
In the case of the crocus , which has a solid bulb , its activity is like those above mentioned .
The tuber of the potato squeezed between blotting paper gives a very active juice , the Jerusalem artichoke a juice which is much less active .
If bulbs or tubers be dried even at ordinary temperatures they lose their activity .
The rhizome in different plants varies much in its activity , and probably in the same plant at different times of the year ; in the iris it is but very slightly active , in sea kale it is more so , and in the Bteris it is very active .
A considerable number of different roots have been experimented with , and in all cases it has been found that the root has very considerable activity ; in fact , the root of some of the larger trees\#151 ; for instance , Scotch fir\#151 ; gives a picture similar to that given by the wood itself .
There are some interesting points with regard to the shells which protect * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 77 , p. 36 !
) .
Dr. W. J. Russell .
Action of [ June 19 , different seeds and fruits .
The outside is quite inactive ; even if laid on a plate for a long time it produces no effect .
The horse chestnut is apparently an exception , but in this case the outside skin of the nut is very thin , and the brown material immediately beneath it is very active , but the nut itself , as before stated , is quite inactive .
With regard to the woody substance which forms the substance of a shell it consists of at least two distinct substances , one of which is able to act on a plate , and the other is not able to do so .
For instance , in a cocoanut shell , the constituent of the shell which is lightest in colour is quite inactive , and the darker part is very active .
Again , in the butter nut , fig. 2 , the red portion of the shell is quite inactive , while the dark part is strongly active .
In the Brazil nut the same thing also occurs , the central dark layer being very active , and the outside part is entirely without action .
In fir cones the same kind of thing occurs ; the axis of a cone consists of materials varying but slightly in colour , but very considerably in their power of acting on a plate .
In the case of the almond shell it is throughout perfectly inactive .
Both the shell of the acorn and of the Barcelona nut consists of two layers , which are easily separated ; the outside one is inactive and the inside one is active .
Immediately within the shell of a nut there are one or more integuments , and they have very different powers of acting on a plate .
For instance , in the cocoanut there are three integuments , the one next to the shell is very thin and of a whitish colour , the next one is much thicker and of a brown colour , and the third one is very thin and also brown in colour .
The thin integument next the shell and the thick brown one in contact with it are both active , but the third layer is without activity .
There is also a thin skin adhering to the kernel ; this is also quite inactive .
This variation in the action of different parts of a nut is well shown in fig. 3 , which represents the two halves of a walnut split through the middle ; from one half the kernel has been removed , but not from the other half ; the kernel filling up the shell is quite inactive , but the lining to the empty shell is very active .
Actions of the same kind occur with broad and runner beans and other seeds ; the outside , the testa , is inactive and the inner layer is active .
Fig. 4 , Plate 19 , is a picture given by a section of a broad and a runner bean , and fig. 5 a section of a horse chestnut .
On examining the flowers of different plants the petals in all cases have been found to be active .
They are best dried by squeezing between Ford blotting paper , and a picture can be obtained both from the petal itself and from the expressed juice in the paper .
In many cases a characteristic picture 1906 .
] Plants on a Photographic Plate , Dark .
is obtained from the paper .
Fig. 6 , Plate 20 , is one obtained from the paper on which an Auricula flower has been squeezed , and fig. 7 is from an Oriental poppy .
Fig. 8 is from the petal of a viola .
The colour of the petal does not affect the result .
White , blue , and pink petals of the Canterbury bell , red and white rose petals , dark purple and yellow viola petals and many others all give similar results , and all , as far as rough experiment goes , appear to be active to about the same extent .
They show , however , greater activity than an equal area of the leaf of the same plant .
The pistil in a number of plants , for instance , poppy , lily , cactus , tulip , iris , etc. , were examined , and in all cases were found to be very active .
The stamens of different plants when squeezed were found to be active , but pollen , on the contrary , when examined alone was always found to be quite inactive .
That from the sedge , hazel , Scotch fir , pinaster , Finns and many other plants was examined .
Leaves.\#151 ; Carrying the investigation on to leaves , large numbers have been experimented with , and all have been found to act on a photographic plate .
The amount of action naturally varies with leaves from different plants ; where there is much sap juice , there is generally much action .
If a leaf be simply dried its activity is much lessened , or may be nearly destroyed , and its surface is rendered uneven ; but even in old and dried leaves a very appreciable amount of activity remains .
For instance , beech leaves picked up off the ground were found to have about the same degree of activity as the ordinary green leaf , and a canna leaf which had been between blotting paper in a press for one and a-half years , and other leaves which had been pressed for two to three years , still were able to give a faint picture .
If these old leaves were slightly moistened before putting up with a photographic plate , this activity was considerably increased ( figs. 9 and 10 ) .
Also it is interesting to note that if a slit be cut in the dry leaf , this becomes in the picture very visible .
Fig. 11 appears as if an active emanation had taken place from the body of the leaf .
The best way of obtaining satisfactory pictures of leaves is to subject them to considerable pressure between white ( Ford ) blotting paper ; this , of course , squeezes the leaf juice out and the leaf is left in such a condition that after standing in the air for a short time it may be put up with the photographic plate .
Whether the squeezing should be repeated , and whether the pressure should be a quarter of a ton or six tons , depends on the nature of the leaf experimented with .
This way of drying a leaf has also the advantage , as previously pointed out , of giving a second picture , which is often a very interesting one , and is simply obtained by exposing the paper with the absorbed sap from the leaf to a photographic plate .
390 The Action of Plants on a Photographic Plate the Dark .
Figs. 12 and 13 , Plate 21 , are from the leaf itself , black currant , and figs. 14 and 15 are pictures of the same leaf , but are from the paper between which it was squeezed .
As further illustrating the nature of the pictures obtainable by these processes , fig. 16 shows the front and back of a beech leaf taken direct from the leaf .
Ferns and mosses also give interesting results , but these will not be dealt with in the present communication .
The above investigation has been carried out in the Davy-Faraday laboratory , and my thanks are due to the managers of the Royal Institution for the use of their laboratory .
I am also much indebted to my assistant , Mr. 0 .
F. Bloch , who has been of much help to me , and has made all the photographic pictures for the illustrations .
Russell .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. vol. 78 , Plate 19 .
Russell .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. vol. 78 , Plate 20 .
Russell .
Roy .
Soc. ProcB .
vol. 78 , Plate 21 .

