1875 .
] On the Replacement of Metals in a Voltaic .
November 25 , 1875 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice was given from the Chair of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting , and the list of Officers and Council proposed for election was read as follows :\#151 ; President.\#151 ; Joseph Dalton Hooker , C.B. , M.D. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; William Spottiswoode , M.A. , LL. D. ~ f Professor George Gabriel Stokes , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. secretaries .
j Professor Thomas Henry Huxley , LL. D. , Ph. D. Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Professor Alexander William Williamson , Ph. D. Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; Professor J. Couch Adams , LL. D. ; Major-General John T. Boileau ; Edward Viscount Cardwell , F.G.S. ; Warren De La Rue , D.C.L. ; Captain Frederick J. O. Evans , R.N. , C.B. ; Edward Frankland , D.C.L. ; Albert C. L. G. Gunther , M.A. , M.D. ; Professor T. Wharton Jones , F.R.C.S. ; Joseph Norman Lockyer , F.R. A.S. ; The Rev. Robert Main , M.A. ; Professor Daniel Oliver , F.L.S. ; Professor Edmund A. Parks , M.D. ; Right Hon. Lyon Playfair , C.B. , LL. D. ; William Pole , C.E. , Mus. Doc .
; The Rev. Bartholomew Price , M.A. ; Warington W. Smyth , M.A. The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Replacement of Electro-positive by Electro-negative Metals in a Voltaic Cell .
" By J. H. Gladstone , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Fullerian Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution , and Alfred Tribe , Esq. , Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College .
Received July 31 , 1875 .
It is well known that one metal exerts a greater chemical force than another , and is capable of displacing it from its combinations .
Among those metals with which we are familiar , potassium is looked upon as the most powerful ; and it is a certain fact that calcium , barium , strontium , aluminium , and magnesium have been isolated by its agency .
It could scarcely be expected , therefore , that any other metal could directly replace potassium .
If such should happen , we would have an instance of reversal , and should expect to find , on examination of the conditions , an agent capable of doing just the reverse work of what is usually assigned to affinity .
It is also well known that in a simple voltaic cell , such as zinc con- Messrs. Gladstone Tribe on the [ Nov. 25 , | ; nected with platinum in dilute hydrochloric acid , the more powerful or 1 electro-positive metal zinc displaces the hydrogen that is in combination with chlorine , and the hydrogen makes its appearance against the less powerful or electro-negative metal platinum .
The chemical theory of galvanism supposes that the force originates in the chemical action which takes place between the zinc and the acid ; the contact theory supposes f that it originates in some unexplained manner in the opposite electrical | condition of the two metals induced by their contact .
If the chemical theory be the true one , it is evident that a zinc-platinum cell can only become active when the binary liquid contains hydrogen or some metal i which is less powerful than zinc .
If , for instance , we were to employ a potassium salt instead of a hydrogen compound , it is inconceivable , on the pure chemical theory , that there should be any action at all .
Such an action , however , does take place if we substitute an aqueous solution of the chloride of potassium for the hydrochloric acid ; the zinc combines with the chlorine , and the potassium is set free in some form , against the platinum , manifesting itself by the presence of free alkali and hydrogen gas .
The same holds good with aqueous solutions of chloride of sodium or ammonium , or barium , strontium , calcium , or magnesium .
This action is slow ; but if magnesium be used instead of zinc , it takes place sufficiently rapidly to be easily observed , and we have therefore studied the action of platinum and magnesium in connexion .
Experiments with Potassium Chloride .
The solution employed was neutral to test-paper , and contained 5 grms. of salt in 100 cub. centims. of water .
A strip of magnesium connected with one of platinum was immersed in such a way that the two metals remained about inch apart .
Bubbles of gas immediately made their appearance on the platinum ; and a strip of red litmus-paper being placed in various parts of the solution , became strongly blue in the vicinity of the platinum plate , whereas but the faintest trace of alkaline reaction was observable near the magnesium plate ; magnesium was found in solution .
A similar experiment was made in a cell which was divided in the middle by means of parchment-paper .
The strip of platinum in one division was connected with the strip of magnesium in the other by means of a wire , and allowed to remain for an hour , when they were removed .
The liquid in the division which had contained the magnesium was slightly turbid and faintly alkaline , but did not give the slightest precipitate when poured into a solution of magnesium sulphate .
The liquid in the division that had contained the platinum plate was , on the contrary , clear and strongly alkaline ; and it precipitated magnesium hydrate from the neutral solution of that metal .
This conclusively showed the presence of some alkaline hydrate other than magnesium hydrate , and which could not have been any thing else than potassium hydrate .
The liquid in the second division was about eight times as alkaline as that in the first .
11875 .
] Replacement of Metals in a Voltaic Cell .
49 We conceive that the explanation of this reaction is that the po-I tassium chloride in solution is itself electrolyzed .
The occurrence of hydrogen against the platinum plate might be ascribed to the electrolysis of the water , the resistance of which was diminished by the dissolved salt ; but this alone in no way accounts for the simultaneous formation of free alkali .
I If any objector should contend that the nascent hydrogen had decomposed chloride of potassium , that would still leave the removal of the acid unexplained ; and as the liberated potassium would instantly decompose an equivalent of water , we should have a chemical reaction resulting in nothing but the restoration of the original state of things , H+KC1+H20=HC1+KHO + H=KCl+HaO + H. It might be supposed that the force produced by the contact of the two metals would expend itself upon the decomposition of a small amount of potassium salt , and that then the action would cease .
But experiment shows the action just described to be continuous .
Several determinations were made of the alkali in the divided-cell experiment described above , at 30 minutes ' and at 60 minutes ' duration .
The results were far from uniform ; but on the average the double period showed an increase of 70 per cent. Better observations were obtained when the hydrogen evolved was taken as the measure of the action .
The wire connecting the strips of magnesium and platinum was caused to pass through the whole length of a graduated tube , which was filled with the solution and inverted in it as in the annexed diagram .
Hydrogen was evolved at once , and a certain volume was colTOL .
XXI ' ' E 50 On the Replacement of Metals in a Voltaic Cell .
[ Nov. 25 , lected in 14 minutes ; a similar volume required 15 minutes , and so on , as in the subjoined Table .
First measure .
Second " Third " Fourth " Fifth " .
After 20 hours Time required .
14 minutes .
15 " 16 m. 50 sec. 17 " 40 " 19 " 20 " 25 minutes .
After some time a white precipitate formed , the product of the action of the potassium hydrate and magnesium chloride , which increased in amount .
The evolution of gas continued until the whole of the magnesium immersed had disappeared .
Sodium Chloride .
Similar experiments were made with a neutral solution of chloride of sodium containing 5 per cent , of salt .
Judging by one experiment with the divided-cell arrangement , the sodium salt was decomposed somewhat more quickly than the potassium salt , as might be anticipated .
Volta , in his original pile , employed a solution of common salt as the exciting liquid .
It seems to have been generally assumed , at least in late years , that it is the water alone that is decomposed ; but as a matter of fact the plates become alkaline .
Ammonium Chloride .
On employing a 5-per cent , solution of ammonium chloride , free ammonia and hydrogen were obtained at the platinum plate .
On causing the platinum to dip into a little mercury , during the reaction the mercury increased in bulk , owing to the formation of the so-called ammonium amalgam .
Chlorides of Metals of the Alkaline Earths .
The chlorides of barium , strontium , and calcium are easily decomposed by magnesium in connexion with platinum .
The hydrates pass into the liquid until it is saturated , when they precipitate .
Of course hydrogen escapes at the same time from the platinum plate .
Other Combina .
As might be expected , these actions are not confined to chlorides .
The sulphates and nitrates of potassium and sodium give similar results in the magnesium connected with platinum , an alkaline hydrate always appearing against the platinum plate .
If one metal in conjunction with another more electro-negative than itself will decompose the salt of a more positive metal in aqueous solution , 1875 .
] Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Production of Glycosuria .
51 it may be expected , a fortiori , that it can decompose one of its own salts .
Instances of this are not wanting .
Magnesium connected with platinum will decompose a magnesium salt , the almost insoluble hydrate of magnesium being found adhering to the negative metal .
The deposition of zinc on the plates of an old-fashioned battery , when the battery is pretty well exhausted , is a well-known phenomenon .
In our experiments with copper and silver , in conjunction in a solution of nitrate of copper , we never succeeded in reducing the galvanic action to nil by our utmost efforts to exclude all oxygen : and the whole of the present inquiry originated in an experiment described by us before the Physical Society , that mercury and gold in conjunction would decompose mercuric chloride with the deposition not only of the lower chloride , but also of metallic mercury upon the gold .
[ We reserve for further consideration the part played by the water in these decompositions , and the bearing of the experiments on the rival theories of voltaic action.\#151 ; Nov. 26 , ] II .
" On the Production of Glycosuria by the Effect of Oxygenated Blood on the Liver.- " ( Supplement to Communication presented June 17th , 1875 .
) By F. W. Pavy , M.D. , F.R.S. Received August 12th , 1875 .
In my former communication I showed that the injection of defibri-nated arterial blood into the portal system occasioned the immediate production of marked glycosuria .
In the present supplement to it I purpose treating of the production of glycosuria by other conditions , leading to the portal blood being surcharged with oxygen .
There are also certain collateral considerations which I shall afterwards proceed to refer to .
After noticing the fact which has been mentioned , it occurred to me to try the effect of endeavouring to saturate the blood with oxygen , through the medium of respiration , to an extent beyond the capacity existing in the systemic capillaries for reducing it to its ordinary venous condition .
I first directed my efforts to attain the object desired by causing an animal to breathe oxygen instead of air .
The oxygen employed was obtained from a mixture of chlorate of potash and peroxide of manganese .
I constructed a vulcanized india-rubber mouthpiece , to fit tightly over the muzzle of the dog and exclude the entrance of air .
This tapered off and was connected with a piece of vulcanized tubing , which passed to a balloon containing the oxygen for use .
A valvular arrangement was provided to allow only the oxygen from the balloon to enter the chest during inspiration , and to cause the

