An Observation Of Saturne , made at Paris , the 17th of August , 1668 .
at hor.111/ 2 , at night , by M.Hugens , and M. Picarts as it is described in the Journal des Scavans of Febr. II.1669 .
THe Observers , employing a Telescope of 21 Foot , saw the Planet Saturn , as it is represented by Fig. II .
the Globe in the middle man festly appearing both above and below beyond the Ovale of his Anses ; which was hardly discernable the last year .
They measured divers ways the Inclination of the Great Diameter of the Ovale to the Equator , which ( Inclination ) was found of about Nine degrees , although at that time it should not be but of Four degrees , according to what M. Hugens hath affirmed in his Systeme of Saturn , viz. that the Plan of the Ring , which environs the Globe of this Planet , is inclined to the Plan of the Ecliptique but 23 deg. 30 .
m. But this last Observation and other like ones of this and the precedent Year being more exact , and made at a time more proper for measuring that obliquity , than were those , which had formerly served for a foundation to determine it ; M. Hugens finds that , in stead of 23 .
deg. 30 .
m. the Angle of the Plans of the Ring and of the Ecliptique must be of 31.deg .
or thereabout ; and that being so , that not only the Shape , which Saturn hath at present , but also all those , that have been noted since the true ones were observed , do perfectly agree with the Hypothesis of the Ring ; and particularly that of 1664 .
in the beginning of July * , which was made , and made public by Signior Campani , wherein the Great Diameter is double to the Lesser .
* See Fig.3 .
as it is to be found in the French Letters , written by M. Auzout to M. L'Abbe Charles , and printed at Paris , A.1665 .
upon the occasion of the Ragguaglio di due Nuove Osservationi da Giuseppe Campani .
As to the round Phasis of Saturn , that Change of the Inclination , which was just now spoken of , cannot alter the time of it but very little or nothing ; so that M. Hugens still exspects this Appearance in 1671 .
when in the Summer of that Year Saturn will begin to loose his Anses , there being then to remain only the Globe in the Middle ; and will not recover them but about a year after , according to what he hath said in his Book of the O O Fig. IV .
Q54 bQa23 6 77

