505 Changes in the Teeth of the Guinea-p , produced by a Scorbutic Diet .
By S. S. Zilya , Ph. D. , M.Sc .
, and F. M. Wells , Major , O.A.D.C. ( Communicated by Dr. A. Harden , F.R.S. Received December 6 , 1918 .
) ( From the Biochemical Department , Lister Institute , and the C.A.D.C. Laboratory .
) [ Plate 13 .
] The pathological anatomy of adult and infantile scurvy has received the attention of many investigators at various times , and is now known in , great detail .
Not only have the macroscopic but also the microscopic changes been fully studied .
Definite characteristic abnormalities in the tissues of the bones , and at the costochondral junctions and the epiphyseal lines in scorbutic subjects , are well recognised .
Although the gums are known to be greatly affected in advanced cases of scurvy and the teeth become loose , there has .
apparently been no chemical or histological work done hitherto on the teeth , since no references to such work can be found in the literature .
This is most probably due to the fact that most of the histological work has been carried out in infantile scurvy .
During the last few years , research in scurvy has been greatly stimulated by the discovery of the possibility of inducing experimental scurvy in animals .
Holst and Frolich ( 1912 ) have shown that a pathological condition analogous to scurvy in the human subject can be induced in guinea-pigs by dietetic means .
That the condition of the animals thus produced was really scorbutic was further confirmed by the observations of these investigators that it could be prevented by the addition of antiscorbutics to the deficient diet .
These observations have since been fully corroborated by many workers .
Hart and Lessing ( 1913 ) have further demonstrated that monkeys when fed on a diet deficient in antiscorbutic develop scurvy .
This has been confirmed by Talbot , Dodd and Peterson ( 1913 ) , and by Harden and Zilva ( 1919 ) .
The latter investigators have also shown that a monkey suffering from scurvy could be cured by administering an antiscorbutic .
The present communication describes the changes observed in the structure of the teeth of scorbutic guinea-pigs .
One of us ( S. S. Z. ) , being engaged in an extensive investigation of experimental scurvy , was in a position to examine many guinea-pigs and monkeys in a scorbutic condition .
It soon became apparent from the macroscopic appearance-that the teeth underwent a great change .
Accordingly , Major Wells was consulted on the 506 Dr. S. S. Zilva and Major F. M. Wells .
Changes in the dental aspect of the subject , and , as the result of his preliminary examination of some of the teeth , it was decided to investigate the matter jointly in detail .
" We had the opportunity of examining a great number of teeth derived from guinea-pigs in various stages of scurvy .
Some of the animals succumbed to scurvy on an unsupplemented scorbutic diet , others received , in addition to the scorbutic diet , solutions of weak antiscorbutic potency , but active enough to delay the onset and the fatal termination of the disease ; others , again , received doses of various preparations which turned out to be quite inactive .
The teeth of normal guinea-pigs were also examined as controls .
We have convinced ourselves that the mildest degree of scurvy which could just be discovered at the 'post-mortem examination produced well-defined changes in the structure of the teeth , and in our numerous examinations we have not observed a single exception to this statement .
In our earlier observations the teeth were ground and the hard unstained sections were examined .
This mode of examination revealed most of the features we are about to describe , but we thought it desirable , in order to bring out all the details more plainly , to adopt a convenient method of staining soft sections of the teeth .
Such a method was suggested to us by Dr. P. P. Laidlaw , of G-uy 's Hospital , and we take this opportunity of expressing our gratitude to him for the pains he took in helping and advising us .
Without his help and advice this investigation would have lacked many important details .
Method of Investigation.\#151 ; For the purpose of this enquiry the lower incisor and molar teeth of the guinea-pig were chosen .
As in all rodents , these teeth grow from persistent pulp and are never shed .
The teeth while still in situ in the lower jaw were decalcified and sections made in an anteroposterior direction , parallel to the long axis .
The teeth were decalcified in a solution containing 35 per cent , of formalin , 42 per cent , of formic acid , and 23 per cent , of distilled water .
When decalcification was complete , sections were made by freezing the material in gum and then staining with hsema-toxylin .
Some specimens were decalcified with phloroglucinol and nitric acid , which possesses the advantage of bringing about the decalcification much more quickly .
In advanced cases of scurvy the teeth Were apparently sound , but useless , inasmuch as they had been loosened by the gradual absorption of the cement membrane of the alveolar sockets , which had left exposed that portion below( the neck .
As a result there must have occurred that periostitic pain or something analogous which follows in the case of human patients who are suffering from shrunken alveoli .
These teeth also presented , in addition , Teeth of the Guinea-pig , produced hy a Scorbutic Diet .
507 all the appearances of the changes of senility .
A great number of longitudinal and transverse sections suitable for microscopic examination were obtained .
The revelations offered by these sections are of a particularly interesting nature .
It would require too much space to describe all the sections of teeth examined and we , therefore , consider it more appropriate to sum up the changes that take place .
Figs. 1 and 2 ( Plate 13 ) are of a normal tooth and give one the opportunity of studying the histology of the dental pulp in its normal relationship to dentine .
The enamel is not quite so heavy as in the natural tooth\gt ; on account of the decalcifying process which has reduced it to about half its thickness , but it gives one an excellent example of the typical relationship to the dentine of the blood vessels , the fine cellular tissue , and odontoblastic cells when in a normal condition .
Nofe the fine-cut lines of the dentine and odontoblastic cells as compared with figs. 3 and 4 .
Figs. 3 and 4.\#151 ; It is obvious that the term " fibrosis " or fibroid degeneration , is the only one which can with certainty be applied to this particular form .
There is no doubt that it is a specimen of degeneration , and it is equally easy to eliminate those other degenerative varieties , such as mucous , calcareous , or fatty , which animal tissues may undergo .
The present instance affords an opportunity of examining certain structural metamorphoses in the pulp , which are believed not to be dependent on any inflammatory condition , but simply attendant on and produced by altered metabolism or constitutional changes due to diet .
This affection seems to have been unknown or overlooked by the pathologists both in Europe and America .
Minute descriptions have been published on pulp nodules , calcareous pulps , and elaborate work on ulcers and tumours connected therewith .
In no case does one find the condition as depicted in figs. 3 and 4 brought about by a dietetic experiment .
It is evident in this picture that in complete pulpar fibrosis no cellular elements of any description occur .
It is clear at once and it is an important fact that no trace of cellular organisation , no trace of cell nuclei , no trace of interstitial cement substances can be found anywhere .
Nerves , cells , blood vessels and odontoblasts have all shared the process of fibrification and are no longer recognisable .
The fine cellular connective tissue which is but a loose mass of network in the normal state , has either become grossly hypertrophied or quite obliterated , and its place taken by a new firm , fibrous structure , devoid of cells , nuclei , or any regular arrangement of constituted parts .
Figs. 3 and 4 show an advanced state of scurvy .
The irregular osteoid condition of the dentine is well marked and the different refractive appearance of the dentine is probably due to the haemorrhagic condition of the dentinal fibrils .
508 Dr. S. S. Zilva and Major F. M. Wells .
Changes in the In a scurvy tooth the condition persists right up to the apex of the root ; the change appears to start first in the odontoblastic cells at the top of the pulp working down towards the apex , followed by distended blood vessels and haemorrhage ; then complete fibroid degeneration follows .
These sections are typical of the great number of teeth examined .
It has already been pointed out that the changes in the structure of the teeth is a feature observed in quite early stages of the disease .
An experiment was devised to demonstrate this systematically .
Four sets of two guinea-pigs each were put on a scorbutic diet of oats , bran , and autoclaved milk .
In the ordinary course , animals subsisting on such a diet cease to grow after about 15 days and then commence declining in weight and eventually succumb to scurvy within a period varying from 21 to 28 days after the commencement of the experiment .
After about the 15th day such scorbutic symptoms as tenderness of the limbs can be observed .
Animals chloroformed at this stage usually show , at the 'post-mortem examination , intramuscular haemorrhages , especially in the femoral muscles , subcutaneous and subperiosteal haemorrhages , enlarged costochondral junction and fragility of bone which is well marked near the epiphyseal line in the tibia and the femur .
The entire pathological picture is characteristic of scurvy .
In the experiment the following procedure was adopted .
The groups of animals were chloroformed after they had subsisted on the scorbutic diet for 7 , 10 , 12 , and 17 days respectively .
A careful post-mortem examination was carried out on the animals , and stained sections of the teeth of the respective groups were examined microscopically .
The results are summarised in the following Table .
The degree of change in the structures of the teeth is indicated by the number of crosses in the Table .
Two outstanding features are brought out by this experiment .
In the first place it becomes plain that the tooth is one of the first , if not the first part of the system to be affected by the deficiency of antiscorbutic material in the diet .
The second point to be marked is that when the scorbutic symptoms during life are so slight as to be almost unrecognisable , profound changes in the tooth are recorded .
If one considers the animals No. 366 , 368 , 369 ( 367 showed the idiosyncrasy of being rather resistant to scurvy ) , one sees that these animals were in apparent good health and gaining in weight .
The scorbutic changes disclosed by the post-mortem examination were such as could hardly have produced any discomfort to the animals , yet the change in the teeth was profound .
We shall refer to this later .
All the guinea-pigs so far examined were several weeks old , and experiments were therefore instituted with the object of seeing whether similar changes could be observed in animals put on scorbutic diet soon after birth .
Teeth of the Guinea-pig , produced by a Scorbutic Diet .
509 Table .
No. Duration of experiment .
Initial weight .
Final weight .
Postmortem remarks .
Condition of teeth .
372 days .
7 grm. 362 grm. 372 Normal Normal .
373 7 385 384 Normal Blood vessels 366 10 254 323 Slight haemorrhages in femoral muscles slightly dilated .
+ + 367 10 | 285 370 and along lower ribs .
Everything else normal .
Normal Normal .
368 12 258 327 Slight haemorrhages in femoral muscles + + 369 12 246 306 and along lower ribs .
Slight " beading " at costochondral junctions .
Slight haemorrhages in femoral muscles ; + 370 17 241 270 bones somewhat brittle .
Slight " bead- j ing " of costochondral junctions .
Very marked haemorrhages in femoral + 371 17 265 254 muscles .
Enlarged and haemorrhagic costochondral junctions .
Shafts of femur and tibia brittle near epiphyseal junctions .
( Same as 370 ) + + + This was possible with guinea-pigs , as these animals can maintain themselves when removed from their mother immediately after birth .
The following protocols describe three representative cases:\#151 ; 1 .
Guinea-pig No. 316 , born on May 30 , 1918 , was put immediately on a diet of oats , bran , and autoclaved milk .
It weighed 89 gram , at the time of its birth .
On June 14 , 1918 , it reached fts maximum weight of 135 gram .
From that day it commenced losing in weight and died on June 24 , 1918 , weighing 113 gram .
At the post-mortem examination it was found that the intestinal walls appeared to be haemorrhagic , although no haemorrhages were found elsewhere .
The bones of the fore and hind limbs were very soft .
There was decided " beading " at the costochondral junctions .
The ribs of this and the following animals were kindly examined for us , histologically , by Miss F. M. Tozer , who found fractures and disorganised junctions of the cartilage and bone .
The structure of the teeth of this animal was modified to a marked extent and was assessed by us to be + -f .
Guinea-pig No. 313 , born May 30 , 1918 , weighing 97 gram .
, was put on scorbutic diet of oats , bran , and autoclaved milk immediately after birth .
It received also occasional small doses of orange juice , enough to delay the fatal termination but not adequate to prevent scurvy .
After about 15 days the animal displayed definite systems of scurvy .
It was kept in this condition until July 23 , 1918 , when it died , weighing only 128 gram .
, which was far below 510 Dr. S. S. Zilva and Major F. M. Wells .
Changes in the the average weight ( about 200 gram .
) of a normal guinea-pig of that age .
The 'post-mortem examination revealed very brittle bones , old haemorrhages in the femoral muscles , and at the costochondral junctions no definite beading but merely a narrow ridge .
The histological examination of the costochondral junctions showed nothing abnormal .
The changes in the teeth were profound , and were assessed by us at the maximum indicated by + + + .
Guinea-pig No. 273 was born April 18 , 1918 , weighing 62 gram .
, and was put on scorbutic diet of oats , bran , and autoclaved milk the same day .
Like the preceding animal it received occasional small doses of orange juice .
The animal , after about a fortnight , manifested symptoms of scurvy , and was kept in a chronic state of the disease for two months until June 18 , 1918 , when it weighed 97 gram .
It was then put on a normal mixed diet .
Several days after ( June 29 , 1918 ) , owing to the very brittle condition of the teeth , a part of the lower incisor broke off .
This was examined by us histologically , and was found to be in a highly deteriorated condition , as shown by photograph ( 5 ) .
After being put on a mixed diet the animal commenced gaining in weight .
As its teeth continued growing one could definitely distinguish two zones , coinciding with the two periods of nutrition .
The lower zone was white and quite normal , the upper was yellow , with less perfect enamel .
This guinea-pig was chloroformed July 19 , 1918 .
At the post-mortem examination nothing abnormal was found .
The teeth still manifested some change in structure , assessed by us as + .
These experiments show that these very young guinea-pigs behaved in precisely the same way as the older animals .
The radical changes in the teeth , brought about by the deficiency of the diet in antiscorbutics , has also been definitely established in the monkey .
This investigation is , however , as yet incomplete , and the results are therefore deferred for a future communication .
It is necessary at this juncture to point out the identity of guinea-pig , monkey , and human scurvy .
It would be useless repetition to indulge in a complete discussion of the pathological anatomy .
This has already been ably done by Holst and Frolich ( 1912 ) with the guinea-pig , and Hart and Lessing with the monkey .
Eecent discoveries throw , however , a very interesting light on the subject .
Harden and Zilva ( 1918 ) have shown that by removing the organic acids from lemoti juice ah antiscorbutically potent residue remains behind , which is almost equal in activity to the original juice .
This was ascertained by thehi protectively on guinea-pigs and curatively on a monkey .
The preparation has recently been tried by Harden , Zilva , and Still ( 1919 ) on several cases of infantile scurvy , with results that have fully Teeth of the Guinea-pig , produced by a Scorbutic Diet .
511 corroborated the observations made on animals .
This fact establishes beyond doubt the identity of the disease in the three cases .
In drawing from the above experiments conclusions bearing on human subjects , one is fully alive to the fact that more work , both of an experimental and statistical nature , will have to be done before definite conclusions can be drawn .
At present , no satisfactory explanation has been advanced for the great prevalence of tooth decay amongst civilised communities .
This investigation suggests that deficiency in diet forms a reasonable working hypothesis on which future research may be based .
It is true that adult and even infantile scurvy is more or less rare in most civilised countries , but this applies to the well declared form of the disease .
Our animal experiments show definitely that the scurvy may be of an extremely mild form , and yet produce very marked changes in the teeth .
Hess ( 1917 ) shows how children may suffer from " subacute " scurvy by no means easily recognised .
He further defines another type , which he calls " latent scurvy , " which is a state of malnutrition , and can only be diagnosed by the improvement in the state after the administration of an antiscorbutic .
It is evident that such transient conditions of infantile scurvy may occur more often than is usually suspected , and may reasonably be expected to influence dentition .
It has already been pointed out that it is not advisable to speculate too much at this stage .
One thing is certain , that the problem invites further investigation .
Our knowledge of nutrition has advanced rapidly during the last decade .
Besides the antiscorbutic factor there are at least two other accessory factors which are vital to our existence .
One is the antineuritic , sometimes called the anti-beri-beri " vitamine , " and the other the " fat soluble " factor discovered by McCollum and Davis ( 1914 ) .
That the polyneuritic condition known as beri-beri is produced by the dietetic deficiency of the former is now almost universally acknowledged .
The actual pathological changes in human subjects caused by the dietetic deficiency of the " fat soluble " factor have not yet been defined , but that it is indispensable for rats has now been shown beyond doubt .
Other nutritional irregularities due to protein deficient in certain amino-acids , or to certain inorganic constituents of the diet , are also of supreme importance , and it would be of interest to study their effect on the teeth .
An investigation , in which some of these factors are being studied for a different purpose , is at present being carried on at the Lister Institute , and it is hoped that the 'post-mortem material may be utilised for further dental investigations , with the object of throwing more light on the function of the diet in dental hygiene .
512 Changes in Teeth of Guinea-pig , produced by Scorbutic Diet .
S. S. Z. is responsible- for the biochemical part of the investigation ; F. M. W. for the histological work .
REFERENCES .
Harden and Zilva ( 1919 ) , ' J. Bact .
Path .
' ( In the press .
) Harden and Zilva ( 1918 ) , ' Bioch .
J./ vol. 12 , p. 259 .
Harden , Zilva , and Still ( 1919 ) , 'Lancet , ' January 4 , p. 17 .
Hart and Lessing ( 1918 ) , ' Der Skorbut der kleinen Kinder .
' Hess ( 1917 ) , * J. Amer .
Med. Assoc. ' January 27 , p. 235 .
Holst und Frolich ( 1912 ) , ' Zeitsch .
Hyg .
, ' vol. 72 , p. 1 .
Talbot , Dodd , Peterson ( 1913 ) , ' Boston Med. Surg .
J. , ' vol. 169 , p. 232 .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Longitudinal section through normal guinea-pig tooth .
The pulp is .
Prepared by decalcification .
Stained with Ehrlich 's acid hsematoxylin .
Magnified 40 times .
D , dentine ; B , blood-vessels ; O , odontoblasts ; E , enamel ; B.L. , basal layer of Weil .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Same as preceding figure .
Magnified 200 times .
O , odontoblasts ; P , pulp tissue ; B , blood-vessels .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; A transverse section of a guinea-pig tooth kept on a scorbutic diet for about 15 days .
D , dentine ; E , enamel ; P , dead pulp , showing complete degeneration of the pulp .
Magnified 40 times , stained as in preceding figure .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Same as fig. 3 .
Magnified 200 times .
Prepared and stained as in preceding figure .
D , dentine ; D.O. , degenerate odontoblasts ; P , dead pulp tissue proper .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Longitudinal section through piece of tooth of guinea-pig No. 273 , broken off 29.6.18 .
P , pulp ; D , dentine .
Stained and prepared as in preceding figures .
Magnified 40 times .
Roy .
Soc. Troc .
1 ! .
, Vol Ml , PI .
Is .
ffTTWem- .

