8* " On the Reproduction of the 4AsearisMystax- " By Henry Nelson , M.D , Communicated by Allen Thomson , M.D. , F.R*S .
Received May 22 , 1851 .
The author commences with a brief anatomical description of the Ascaris JIystax , found in the intestinal canal of the Doinestic Cat ; with more especial reference to the organs of generation in the two sexes .
He traces the gradual formation of the semen ; originally thrown off as seminal particles by the ceecal extremity of the tubular testicle , the exterior of each solid particle enlarges to constitute a cell , while the interior retains its consistency and iforms a nucleus .
The cell then acquires a granular protecting envelope , and in this state is introduced into the female .
The solution of the protective envelope and the great enlargement of the seminal cell follow , and its nucleus is now seen to present a granular structure .
The exter .
nal granules of the nucleus coalesce to form a membrane , at first exactly resembling a watch-glass in shape , but by the contraction of its margin ultimately forming a curved caecal tube .
This is the true spermatic particle or spermatozoon , and is set fr:ee:by the rupture of the seminal .
cell .
The generative apparatus of the female , commeneing also in c meal extremities , is next treated of , and the author draws particular attention to a transparent , narrow contractile portion , the oviduct , intervening between the ovary and uterus , as the part in which the ovule encounters the spermatic particles , and is by them fecundated .
The caecal end of the vary likewise throws off a solid partiele xhich enlarging forms a germinal vesicle and spoti As the gerin-al vesicle travels slowly down the tubular ovary , it acquires a thick granular investment or yolk , secreted : by the ovartan walls .
The ovules now present a. flattened triangular shape5 are placed side by side , and form one solid mass .
At the commencement,.of the oviduct however they beconme detached , separated from each other , and propelled singly along its interior .
Here the geltinous ovule meets the tubular spermati particles , and is surrounded on aII sides by them .
They are at first seen to be merely applied against the ovule , but by degrees the margin of the latter presents a rupture , some of the vitelline granules are displaced , and the spermatic par .
tilees become imbedded in the substance of the yolk itself .
While the penetration of the spermatic particlesl is going on , a chorion , secreted by the oviduct , surrounds the ovule , forming a spherical envelope , within which the germinal vesicle , the granular yolk , and the imbedded spermatozoa , are enclosed .
The spermatie particles afer penetration are seen to swell , become transparents and ultimately to dissolve .
The vitelline granules likewise eitherdisappear altogether , or are transformed into others of a different colour ; and , lastly , the germinal vesicle is destroyed .
By tracing the changes of the ovule in unfecundated females of the same species , the apthor finds the disappearance of the Yitelline granules to be dependent upon , while the formation of the chorion is wholly independent of , the influence exerted by the spermatic patticles on the ovle .
As soon as the vitelline granules and germinal vesicle have disappeared , the whole interior of the chorion is flled with a clear fluid , in which a few granules and the germinal spot are seen to remain .
By swelling up this constitutes the embryonic vesicle and spot .
A membrane separates from the interior of *ie chorion , and contracting on the granules forms a spherical yolk , in the centre of which is the embryonic vesicle .
This is the perfect ovum .
The subsequent divisions of the embryonic spot , vesicle and yolk are described ; the author particularly pointing out the , gyrations of the embryonic vesicle immediately after division .
As soon as the whole interior of the egg has been filled by the subdivisions of the yolk , the external granules coalesce and form a continuous membrane internal to the chorion , which by gradual depression on one of its sides forms first a fleshy cup , and then , as the membrane of its concavity touches that of its convex surface , acquires the form of a ring .
The ring divides atsomne point of its circumference , the extremities become pointed , and thus the young Ascaris receives its characteristic shape .
The author has frequently repeated his observations with a view to their verification , and has employed the camera lucida to render the illustrative figures as accurate as possible .

