II .
" On Plane Water-LDines .
" By W. J. MACQUORN RANKINE , C.E. , LL. LD .
, F.R.SS .
L. &amp; E. , Assoc. Inst. N.A. , &amp;c. Received July 28 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
By the term " Plane Water-Line " is meant one of those curves which a particle of a liquid describes in flowing past a solid body when such flow takes place in plane layers .
Such curves are suitable for the water-lines of a ship ; for during the motion of a well-formed ship , the vertical displacements of the particles of water are small , compared with the dimensions of the ship ; so that the assumption that the flow takes place in plane layers , though not absolutely true , is sufficiently near the truth for practical purposes * .
2 .
The author refers to the researches of Professor Stokes ( Camb .
Traiis .
1842 ) , " On the Steady Motion of an Incompressible Fluid , " and of Pro* As water-line curves have at present no single word to designate them in mathematical language , it is proposed to call them Neoids , from vn 's , the Ionic genitive of vavs .
fessor William Thomson ( made in 1858 , but not yet published ) , as containing the demonstration of the general principles of the flow of a liquid past a solid body .
3 .
Every figure of a solid , past which a liquid is capable of flowing smoothly , generates an endless series of water-lines , which become sharper in their forms as they are more distanit from the primitive water-line of the solid .
The only exact water-linies whose forms have hitherto been completely investigated , are those generated by the cylinder in two dimensions , and by the sphere in three dimensions .
In addition to what is already known of those lines , the author points out that , when a cylinder moves through still water , the orbit of each particle of water is one loop of an elastic curve .
4 .
The profiles of waves have been used with success in practice as waterlines for ships , first by Mr. Scott Russell ( for the explanation of whose system the author refers to the Transactions of the Institution of Naval Architects for 1860-62 ) , and afterwards by others .
As to the frictional resistance of vessels having such lines , the author refers to his own papers -one read to the British Association in 1861 , and printed in various engineering journals , and another read to the Royal Society in 1862 , and printed in the Philosophical Tralnsactions .
Viewed as plane water-lines , however , the profiles of waves are not exact , but approximate ; for the " solitary wave of translation , " investigated experimentally by Mr. Scott Russell ( Reports of the British Association , 1844 ) , and mathematically by Mr. Earnshaw ( Camb .
Trans. 1845 ) , is strictly applicable to a channel of limited dimensions only , and the trochoidal form belongs properly to an endless series of waves , whereas a ship is a solitary body .
5 .
The author proceeds to investigate and explain the properties of a class of water-lines comprising an endless variety of forms and proportions .
In each series of such lines , the primitive water-line is a particular sort of oval , characterized by this property , that the ordinate at any point of the oval is proportional to the angle between two lines drawn from that point to two foci .
Ovals of this class differ from ellipses in being considerably fuller at the ends and flatter at the sides .
6 .
The length of the oval may bear any proportion to its breadth , from equality ( when the oval becomes a circle ) to inifinity .
7 .
Each oval generates an endless series of water-lines , which become sharper in figure as they are further from the oval* .
In each of those derived lilnes , the excess of the ordinate at a given point above a certain minimum value is proportional to the angle between a pair of lines drawn from that point to the two foci .
8 .
There is thus an endless series of ovals , each generating anl endless series of water-lines ; and amongst those figures , a continuous or " fair " cturve can always be found combining any proportion of length to breadth , from equality to infinity , with any degree of fullness or filnelness of entrance , from absolute bluffniess to a knife-edge .
9 .
The litnes thus obtained present striking likenesses to those at which naval architects have arrived ugh practical experience ; and every successful model in existing vessels can be closely imitated by means of them .
10 .
Any series of water-lines , including the primitive oval , are easily and quickly constructed with the ruler and compasses .
11 .
The author shows how to construct two algebraic curves traversing certain important points in the water-lines , which are exactly similar for all water-lines of this class .
One is a rectanigular hyperbola , having its vertex at the end of the oval .
It traverses all the points at which the motion of the particles , in still water , is at right angles to the water-lines .
The other is a curve of the fourth order , having two branches , one of which traverses a series of points , at each of which the velocity of gliding of the particles of water along the water-line is less than at any other point on the same water-line ; while the other branch traverses a series of points , at each of which the velocity of gliding is greater than at any other point on the same water-line .
12 .
A certain point in the second branch of that curve divides each series of water-lines into two classes , -those which lie within that point having three points of minimum and two of maximum velocity of gliding , while every water-line which passes through or beyond the same point has only two points of minimum and one of maximum velocity of gliding .
Hence the latter class of lines cause less commotion in the water than the former .
13 .
On the water-line which traverses the point of division itself , the velocity of gliding changes more gradually than on any other water-line having the same proportion of length to breadth .
Water-lines possessing this character can be constructed with any proportion of length to breadth , from 4/ 3 ( which gives an oval ) to infinity .
The finer of those lines are found to be nearly approximated to by wave-lines , but are less hollow at the bow than wave-lines are .
14 .
The author shows how horizontal water-lines at the bow , drawn according to this system , may be combined with vertical plane lines of motion for the water at the stern , if desired by the naval architect .
15 .
In this , as in every system of water-lines , a certain relation ( according to a principle first pointed out by Mr. Scott Russell ) must be preserved between the form and dimensions of the bow and the maximum speed of the ship , in order that the appreciable resistance may be wholly frictional and proportional to the square of the velocity ( as the experimental researches of Mr. J. R. Napier and the author have shown it to be in wellformed ships ) , and may not be augmented by terms increasing as the fourth and higher powers of the velocity , through the action of vertical disturbances of the water .

