V. A Description of a Barometer , wherein the Scale of Variation may be increased at Pleasure .
By the Reverend Mr. John Rowning , Fellow of Magdalen-College in Cambridge ; Communicated by Dr. Smith F.R.S. ABC D , in Fig. 4 , is a Cylindrical Vessel filled with a Fluid to the Height W , in which is immerged the Barometer S V , consisting of the following Parts ; the Principal of which is the Glass Tube TP ( represented separately at t p ) whose upper End T is hermetically sealed : This End does not appear to the Eye , being received by the lower End of a Tin Pipe G H , which in its other End G receives a Cylindrical Rod , or Tube S T , either hollow or solid , made of any Materials whatsoever , thereby fixing it to the Tube T P. The Rod ST may be taken off , in order to put in its stead a larger or lesser , as Occasion requires .
S is a Star at the Top of the Rod S T , which serves as an Index , pointing to the graduated Scale L A , which is fixed to the Cover of the Vessel ABC D. MN is a large Cylindrical Tube made of Tin ( represented separately at m n ) which receives in its Cavity the smaller Part of the Tube T P , and is well cemented to it at both Ends , that none of the Fluid can get in .
The Tube T P , with this Apparatus , being filled with Mercury , and plunged into the Bason V , which hangs by two or more Wires upon the lower End of the Tube M N , must be so poised as to float in the Liquor contained in the Vessel ABC D , and then it will rise when the Atmosphere becomes lighter , and e contra .
Let the specific Gravity of Quicksilver be to that of Water , or to the Liquor the Barometer floats in , as s to I : and if it be proposed that the Variations of this Compound Barometer shall be to the contemporary Variations of the common Barometer in the given Ratio of n to I , this Effect will be obtained by making the Diameter of the Rod ST to the Diameter of the Cavitity of the Tube H I , as ~n+s/ ns to I , which may be thus demonstrated .
Let us suppose that the Variation of the Height of the Quicksilver in the common Barometer , called v , is such , that a Cubic Inch of Quicksilver shall rise into the Vacuum X T ; in order to which a Cubic Inch of Quicksilver must rise from the Vessel V , that is , the Surface P must subfide so far , that a Cubic Inch of Water ( if that be the Fluid made use of ) shall enter the Vessel V , by which Means the Barometer with the Parts annexed will be heavier by a Cubic Inch of the Fluid .
Now this additional Weight of a Cubic Inch of Fluid will make the whole Barometer subside ( according to the Laws of Hydrostaticks ) 'till a Cubick Inch of the Rod H S , immediately extant above the Surface at W , shall come under it ; but the Length of such a Magnitude of HS will exceed the Length of an equal Magnitude of Quicksilver in the larger Tube X , as much as the Square of the Diameter at X exceeds the Square of the Diameter at H ( the Lengths of equal Cylinders being reciprocal to their Bases ) .
That is , the perpendicular Descent of the compound Barometer will be to v , the perpendicular Ascent of the Mercury in the common Barometer , as d to I ( supposing this the Ratio of the Bases ) and consequently will be equal to d v. But by this Descent , the Distance PW between the Surface of the stagnant Quicksilver and the Top of the Fluid will be augmented by a Column , whose Height is d v , the Descent of the Compound Barometer ; and consequently the Weight of the whole Column of the Fluid pressing on the lower Surface of the Quicksilver ( to which the Height X is partly owing ) will be increased by a Column of that Length , and this Increase , would produce a second ascent of the Mercury at X equal to itself , namely d v , were the Fluid as heavy as Quicksilver ; but since it is supposed to be lighter in the Ratio of s to , I , the Ascent of the Mercury on this Account will only be dv / s. But now , as in the former Case , when the Ascent of the Mercury was v , the Descent of the Compound Barometer was shown to be d v , so here the Ascent of the Mercury being dv/ s , the Descent of the Compound Barometer will be ddv/ s and the next Descent dddv/ ss and the next d4 v/ s3 and so on to Infinity Therefore the whole Descent of the Compound Barometer , is to the Ascent of the Mercury in the common Barometer , that is , n is to 1 , as d+dd/ s+ddd/ ss+ d4 / s3 + , &amp;c. to 1 , or as ds/ sd to 1 ; because the Terms of the Series being in Geometrical Progression , the Sum of them all is ds/ s d. Hence we have n=ds/ sd and ns=ds+d n ; that is , 1 : d : : n+ s : n s : : n+s/ n s : 1 and 1 : ~d , that is , the Diameter of ST to the Diameter of H I , as ~n+s/ ns to 1 .
Q.E.D. Example I. Putting s= 14 and n= 1 , the Variations in each Barometer will be equal , by taking the Diameter of ST to the Diameter of HI as ~ 15/ 14 : 1 , that is , as 30 to 29 nearly .
Example II .
If n be put infinite , the Diameter of ST will be to the Diameter of HI as ~ 1/ s to 1 , or 1 to ~14 ; that is , as 1 to 3 3/ 4 nearly .
The Bottom of the Vessel V , and the Ends of the Tubes , ought to be made rather round than flat for their more easy Motion up and down in the Fluid .
It will be convenient to have a small Bason fixed upon the Star , to contain Shot for the more easy poising the Barometer in the Fluid .
L S Fig. 4 .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
AB W G Tt H X I n N Mm P pA Scale of 8 Inches V 1234567

