1902 .
] Structure of the Gills of the Lamellibranchia .
" On the Structure of the Grills of the Lamellibranchia .
By Dr. W. Gr .
Bidewood .
Communicated by E. Bay Lankester , M.A. , F.B.S. Beceived May 3 , \#151 ; Bead May 29 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) This paper records the results of an investigation undertaken at the instance of Professor E. Bay Lankester , F.B.S. , and carried on under his supervision .
215 species of Lamellibranchia , belonging to 118 genera , were examined .
The results are far-reaching in that they demonstrate that , except in a very broad way , the minute structure of the gill , like the grosser structure , cannot be taken as an indication of genetic affinity . .
- Three main types of gill structure can , however , be recognised , representing apparently three successive grades of complexity .
The first type , found in the families Nuculidae and Solenomyidae , is distinguished by the mutual freedom of the gill leaflets or platelets into which the embryonic gill papillae expand .
These two families were united by Pelseneer under the heading " Protobranchia , " which title it is proposed to retain . . . .
In the other two types the embryonic papillae elongate into filaments , which are held in juxtaposition by interlocking cilia disposed in circular patches on the anterior and posterior sides of the filaments , or by regularly arranged horizontal bars of cellular tissue , which put the adjacent filaments into organic connection the one with the other , and convert the interfilamentar spaces into rows of fenestrae .
The former type it is proposed to term , and the latter synaptorhabdic .
Although Pelseneer so far recognised the distinctness of these two last conditions as to make them the prime features of his orders Fili-branchia and Eulamellibranchia , he yet instituted an intermediate heterogeneous order\#151 ; the Pseudolamellibranehia to include the Ostreidae , Aviculidae and Pectinidae .
Evidence is produced in the present communication to show that the order Pseudolamellibranchia is ill-founded , and based largely on a misconception of the relative value of the flatness or plication of the gill lamellae , and the presence or absence of large filaments ( principal filaments ) at regular intervals along the lamellae .
, In the family Solenidae particularly it is shown that different species and sub-genera of the same genus may have their gill lamellae flat or plicate , and the filaments all of one kind or with enlarged principal filaments at intervals .
Aviculaargentea has proved to be a form of supreme interest , in that it demonstrates how , in some cases at least , the synaptorhabdic 500 Sir Norman Lockyer and Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer .
[ June 14 , condition has been evolved from the eleutherorhabdic condition , since in this species both ciliated discs and organic interfilamentar junctions are present .
Anomia aculeata is of no less interest , since it differs from the other species of Anomia examined , and resembles the rare Dimya , in that the gill filaments are not reflected , i.e. , they have no ascending portions .
A very careful examination was made of the gills of Vesicomya and Euciroa , which were said by Dali to exhibit close resemblances with those of the Protobranchia .
Both prove to be of the synaptorhabdic type , and their superficial resemblance to the Protobranch gill is due to an expansion of the interlamellar edge of the filaments , a feature which is by no means confined to these two genera .
Evidence is also adduced to show that the forms included by Pelse-neer in his order Septibranchia are , at least so far as can be judged by their branchial organs , degenerate Molluscs of the Lyonsiella type , and the suppression of the Septibranchia as a distinct order is advocated .
" On some Phenomena which suggest a Short Period of Solar and Meteorological Changes .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.B.S. , and William J. S. Logkyer , M.A. , Ph. D. , F.B.A.S. Beceived June 14 , \#151 ; Bead June 19 , 1902 .
In continuation of the inquiries referred to in a former paper on Indian rainfall and solar activity , * attention has more recently been devoted to an examination of the variations of pressure over the Indian and other areas .
1 .
It is well known that in India during the summer months ( April to September ) and during the winter months ( October to March ) low and high pressures respectively prevail .
In the case of the latter , the pressure is found to exhibit very remarkable and definite variations , and is in excess , every 3J years , on the average , while at these times of excess of high pressure the low pressure during the other 6 months of the year is deficient ; so that every 3^ years or so the high pressure becomes higher and the low pressure is not so low as usual .
2 .
Further , this short-period variation , which appears in the mean variation of pressure over the whole of India , is as well defined in the mean values for individual stations , such as Bombay ( fig. 1 , Curve F ) , Calcutta , Madras , Nagpur , \amp ; c. 3 .
The view that the variation of pressure in question over India and its neighbourhood is not due to local causes , but is produced by some * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' yol .
67 , p. 409 .

