1888 .
] Beat of the Mammalian Heart .
Plasticity of Ice .
331 IhTT^v III .
" On the Electromotive Changes connected with the Beat of the Mammalian Heart , and of the Human Heart in particular .
" By Augustus D. Waller , M.D. Communicated by Professor Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received June 12 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
Description of experiments in which the electrical variation connected with the spontaneous beat is modified .
2 .
The normal ventricular variation is diphasic , and usually indicates ( 1 ) negativity of apex , ( 2 ) negativity of base .
3 .
Description of " irregular " variations .
4 .
Observations on animals with one or both leading off electrodes applied to the body at a distance from the heart .
5 .
Determination of the electrical variations of the heart on man .
6 .
The variation is diphasic , and indicates ( 1 ) negativity of apex , ( 2 ) negativity of base .
7 .
Distribution of cardiac potential in man and animals .
" Favourable " and " unfavourable " combinations .
8 .
Demonstration of electrical effects by leading off from the surface of the intact body by the various extremities and natural orifices .
9 .
Comparison between effects observed on man with the nbrmal and with a transposed situation of the viscera .
IV .
" On the Plasticity* of Glacier and other Ice .
" By James C. McConnel , M.A. , Fellow of Glare College , Cambridge , and Dudley A. Kidd .
Communicated by R. T. Glaze-brook , F.R.S. Received June 11 , 1888 .
The experiments described in the following paper were undertaken in continuation of those made by Dr. Main in the winter 1886-87 , and described by him in a paperf read before the Royal Society the following summer .
The investigation is by no means complete , but the results hitherto obtained seem to us sufficiently novel and important to be worthy of being put on record , while we hope to * Dr. Main used the term " viscosity .
" But this has been always applied in liquids to molecular friction , and we have the authority of Sir Wm. Thomson ( Encycl .
Britann .
, ' Art .
: J Elasticity , p. 7 ) for reserving it for the same property in solids also , leaving " plasticity " to denote continuous yielding under stress .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , * vol. 42 , p. 329 .
VOL. XLIV .
2 c

