XXIII .
Experiments on the Alcohol of Sulphur , or Sulphuret of Carbon .
By J. Berzelius , M. D. F. R.S. Professor of Chemistry at Stockholm ; and Alexander Marcet , M. D. F. R. S. one of the Physicians to Guy 's Hospital .
Read May 13 , 1813 .
T HERE has been , of late years , much discussion respecting the nature of a singular oily liquid , which was first noticed by Mr. LAMPADIUS , * who procured it by distillation from a mixture of pyrites and charcoal , and gave it the name of alcohol of sulphur , on account of its very great volatility .
LAMPADIUS considered this liquid as a compound of sulphur and hydrogen ; but Messrs. CLEMENT and DESORMES , t who obtained the same substance by subliming sulphur through red hot charcoal , were led by their researches to conclude , that the alcohol of sulphur was a combination of sulphur a : d charcoal , and that hydrogen was not one of its constituent principles .
Doubts , however , were entertained respecting the chemical nature of this compound .
Mr. BERTHOLLET believed it to be a triple combination of sulphur , charcoal , and hydrogen .
$ Messrs. VAUqUELIN and RoBIQuET , ?
from a joint enquiry on the subject , considered it as a binary compound of sulphur ald CR ELL'S Annals , 1796 .
II .
t Annals de Chimie , An. X. Vol. XLII .
p. iz2 .
1 Ibid. p. z86 . ?
Ibid. Vol. LXI .
p. 145 .
hydrogen ; and the late Mr. BERTHOLLET , jun.* who resumed the subject , with much apparent accuracy , was induced , from his experiments , to adopt the last mentioned opinion , that the alcohol of sulphur was a compound of sulphur and hydrogen , and that no carbon entered into its formation .
Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , in the course of his brilliant career of chemical discovery , has repeatedly noticed this singular substance ; + but it does not appear that he ever examined it minutely , and if he gave the preference to the opinion of the younger Mr. BERTHOLLET , respecting its chemical nature , it was principally from the circumstance of its having apparently yielded sulphuretted hydrogen by the , agency of the Voltaic electricity , and sulphureous and sulphuric acid by combustion in oxygen .
These varieties of opinions , amongst such respectable authorities , having left on our minds much doubt and uncertainty with regard to the real nature of this compound , we undertook to examine it conjointly ; in hopes that we might succeed in ascertaining its composition with a greater degree of certainty than our predecessors had done , and perhaps also in discovering the exact proportions of the elements of which it is composed , a circumstance which , in the present state of chemical science , would add considerable interest to an enquiry of this kind. .
Whilst we were finishing this paper , and arranging our materials , in order to present them to the Royal Society , the Annals de Chimie , for the month of September last , reached this country , by which it appears that the alcohol of sulphur has recently been again submitted to examination in France , by Mr. CLUZEL , who supposed it to be a compound of sulphur , carbon , hydrogen , and azote .
* But Messrs. BERTHOLLET , THENARD , and VAUQUELIN , the reporters of these experiments , have repeated them , and by a process of their own , quite different from the methods which we have employed , these celebrated chemists have revived the opinion of CLEMENT and DESORMES , that the alcohol of sulphur is a compound of sulphur and carbon , in the proportion of about eighty-five parts of the former to fifteen parts of the latter , no hydrogen entering into its composition .
How near this conclusion agrees with our own , will be seen in the following pages .
Although some of the experiments on this substance which we are going to relate , have -already been performed by others , yet as we have , in several instances , obtained different results , and as any considerable omission would interrupt the thread of our narrative , we shall beg leave to lay before the Society a complete , though concise , account of our analysis .
We shall , for the sake of arrangement , class the particulars of our enquiry under four heads : viz. 1 .
Preparation andgeneral since his return to Stockholm .
There are also some important collateral objects , which are almost entirely his own , and which , together with his remarks on determinate proportions , have been added to the paper in the form of an appendix .
( Note of Dr. MARCET .
) properties of the Alcohol of Sulphur. .
Experiments to ascermtai whether Hydrogen be present in the Alcohol of Sulphur .
3 .
Experiments to ascertain the presence of Carbon .
4 .
Experiments to ascertain the proportions of the elements of the Alcohol of Sulphur .
And the Appendix will contain various elucidations and collateral objects . ? ?
1 .
Preparation and general Properties of the Alcohol of Sulphur .
We prepared this substance according to the method pointed out by CLEMENT and DESORMES , that is , by slowly volatilizing sulphur through red hot charcoal in a porcelain tube , and condensing in water the oily liquid which is thus formed .
The details of the process have so often been described elsewhere , that it would be superfluous to repeat them here .
The fluid thus procured is of a pale yellow colour ; being extremely volatile , it produces a remarkable degree of cold during its evaporation , and deposits in a crystalline form , some sulphur which it held in solution .
The quantity of sulphur thus dissolved in the oily liquor , varies according to the circumstances of the process by which it is obtained ; * and its specific gravity , before it has been rectified , must , of course , be liable to corresponding variations .
In order to obtain the alcohol of sulphur perfectly pure , it is only necessary to distill it at a very gentle heat , not exceeding looo or 110 ?
; and some dry muriate of lime may be put into the retort , in order to obtain the liquor perfectly free from moisture .
The fluid which comes over is quite pure , and some sulphur remains in the retort .
The alcohol of sulphur thus prepared has the following properties : it is eminently transparent , and perfectly colourless .
Sometimes , immediately after distillation , the oily liquid appears somewhat opaque and milky ; but the next day the liquor is found perfectly clear , the milky appearance having spontaneously disappeared .
It has an acrid , pungent , and somewhat aromatic taste ; its smell is nauseous and fetid , though distinctly differing from that of sulphuretted hydrogen .
Its specific weight is X,272 ; its refractive power , as ascertained by Dr. WOLLASTON , is 1,645 .
Its expansive force ( the height of the barometer being thirty inches , and the temperature 53,5 ?
FAHRENHEIT ) is equal to the pressure of 7,.6 inches of mercury ; so that air , to which it is admitted , will dilate about onefourth of its volume .
It boils briskly under the common atmospheric pressure at a temperature between o15 ?
and 1 lo ?
.* It does not congeal at a temperature as low as 60 ?
below zero of FAHRENHEIT'S scale .
It is highly inflammable , and takes fire at a temperature scarcely exceeding that at which mercury boils ; it burns with a bluish flame , emitting copious fumes of sulphureous acid .
If a long glass tube , open at both ends , be held over the flame , care being taken to keel ) the tube quite cold , no moisture whatever is deposited on its internal surface .
This oily liquid readily dissolves in alcohol and ether , t though not in all proportions ; and if it contain sulphur in solution , the latter is rapidly precipitated in spicular crystals .
The spirituous solution is rendered turbid , and the oily liquor precipitated by the addition of water .
The alcohol of sulphur is not soluble in water , though it imparts to it some of its odour ; this appears to be owing to its impregnating the atmospheric air contained in the water , rather than the water itself .
It readily mixes , and perfectly incorporates with either the fixed or volatile oils ; but if it hold sulphur in solution , the latter separates in a crystalline form .
It dissolves camphor very rapidly , and forms with it perfectly transparent solutions .
When kept for some time under water , the latter being in contact with atmospheric air , neither the air , nor the oily liquid , suffer any alteration .
On being heated in contact with potassium , the alcohol of sulphur suffers no change or decomposition , when in its liquid state ; but if it be brought to the state of vapour , by the exclusion of the air , and heat applied , the potassium becomes ignited in the vapour , and emits a reddish flame .
During this species of combustion , a blackish film appears upon the potassium , ( as happens when potassium is burnt in carbonic acid gas ) , and on introducing water , a greenish solution is obtained , which contains -a quantity of carbonaceous matter , and has the smell and other properties of hepar sulphuris .
Neither mercury nor amalgams of silver , or of lead , are at all acted upon by this liquor , if it has been carefully distilled ; but if it contain any sulphur in solution , the amalgam blackens , and sulphurets of silver , or of lead , are produced , after which the liquor remains pure , and unsusceptible of further alteration .
Mercury heated to ebullition in an atmosphere of this oil , comes over unaltered , and without the liquor undergoing any change .
The alkalis dissolve it entirely , though but very slowly .
None of the acids exert any sensible action upon this liquor , except the nitro-muriatic acid , and oxy-muriatic gas in a humid state .
If a globule of the alcohol of sulphur be brought into contact , under water , with a globule of the oily fulminating compound , lately described to this Society by Sir H. DAVY , the two globules remain in contact , side by side , without mixing , and without exerting any action upon each other ; but when stirred together , they incorporate , forming a homogeneous ambercoloured globule , which does not detonate , even when exposed to ignition ; and if olive oil be brought into contact with the two oils thus mixed , no detonation or other obvious effect takes place , a remarkable circumstance , of which advantage might be taken to attempt the analysis of the fulminating substance .
The detonation of the fulminating compound with phosphorus , is also prevented by the presence of alcohol of sulphur ; but if the quantity of the detonating compound preponderates over that of either the olive oil or phosphorus , the mixture inflames , though without detonation . ? ?
2 .
Experzments to ascertain whether Hydrogen be present in the Alcohol of Sulphur .
i. We introduced into Volta 's eudiometrical tube , over mercury , some pure oxygen gas , with one drop of the oily liquor .
After letting these stand together for a few minutes , an electrical charge was passed through the tube , which produced a vivid explosion .
The gas was first reduced to between one* These experiments were tried in the presence of one of us , by Mr. WILSON , Assistant to the Chemical Lectures of Guy 's Hospital , who , conjointly with two other gentlemen , has lately published in Nicx OLSON 's Journal , many curious facts on this extraordinary compound .
fifth and one-sixth of its volume , a circumstance which appeared to be owing to the destruction of the volatilized portion of the liquor ; for the gas soon afterwards recovered its former volume .
On examining the superior part of the tube , we perceived traces of a condensed liquid .
Whether this liquid was concentrated sulphuric acid , or simply a small portion of the oily liquor , remained to be dete.rmined .
We repeated the experiment in the following manner .
A quantity of the oily liquor was suffered to evaporate in oxygen gas of known purity , and previously dried with muriate of lime .
Some of this gas was introduced into the eudiometer , and exploded by the electrical spark .
It lost between one-fifth and one-sixth of its volume ; but we perceived , even then , traces of a condensed liquid in the superior part of the eudiometer .
This liquid , in about a quarter of an hour , be.came opaque , and ultimately formed white specks , which we found to be sulphate of mercury .
No oxygen gas remained in the tube after the explosion ; but the gaseous residue consisted of sulphureous acid gas , and , as we shall see afterwards , of the carbonic acid , and the carbonic oxyd gases .
This experiment having still left undetermined , whether the vestige of liquid we had observed , was or was not to be ascribed to the formation of water , we tried to decide this point by means of oxymuriatic gas , in the following manner.9 .
We caused a succession of bubbles of oxymuriatic gas , * In relating the experiments in which oxymuriatic gas ( or chlorine ) is concerned , we have used the old nomenclature , and have explained the phenomena according to the notions , respecting the nature of this agent , which prevailed previous to Sir H. DAVY'S ingenious experiments and speculations on the subject .
But those who consider his views , as sufficiently established to supersede entirely the old hypothesis , may easily adapt to our statements the language which belongs to the new doctrine , previously dried by muriate of lime , to pass through a portion of the alcohol of sulphur , and afterwards through a quantity of distilled water , over which it was collected .
The oily liquid suffered no other change than that of acquiring an orange hue .
After an hour and a half the process was stopped , and the liquor was found to have absorbed a considerable quantity of the gas , which had imparted to it a peculiar and extremely strong odour .
Most of the gas , however , had passed through the water , in which it had deposited a portion of the oily liquid unaltered .
The water had acquired a peculiar smell , and contained , after the expulsion of the oxymuriatic gas , a little muriatic acid , with a vestige of sulphuric acid .
Here again it remained doubtful , whether the production of muriatic acid was owing to the alcohol of sulphur containing hydrogen , which , by uniting with the oxygen of the oxymuriatic acid , had formed water ; or whether this appearance of minute quantities of muriatic and sulphuric acid , might not be explained in some other manner .
It will hereafter be seen how the last conjecture was verified ; but in the mean time it was sufficiently shown , by the experiment just related , that if the alcohol of sulphur really contain hydrogen , it must be in very small quantity , and probably from some accidental circumstance , since the greater part of the liquor remained undecompounded , and with no other alteration than the absorption of the oxymuriatic gas .
In the course of a few days , however , the oil gradually lost the smell of this gas , and acquired that of the muriated sulphur , described by Dr. THOMSON , ( Sir H. DAVY'S sulphurane ) .
The liquor thus treated , on being exposed to the action of water , lost its colour , and resumed its original characters ; and this was accomplished more quickly , if the water contained : some alkaline substance .
3 .
Into a glass receiver , fullofoxymuriatic gas , we immersed some of the oily liquor previously ignited in the air ; it was instantly extinguished , and appeared to undergo no change , except that of absorbing a little oxymuriatic acid , and thereby acquiring a yellow colour .
4 .
A portion of the oily liquor , in the state of vapour , was caused to pass through liquified muriate of silver heated to a cherry red , and to condense again into a small receiver artificially cooled ; neither the liquor , nor the muriate of silver , were altered by that operation , nor did the air contained in tne apparatus appear , on examination , to contain the smallest quantity of acid .
This showed that the liquor did not contain any hydrogen , since if it had , the muriate of silver would have been decomposed , the hydrogen uniting with the oxygen to form water , so as to generate muriatic acid gas ( which may be considered as a muriate of water , or more correctly a muriate of hydrcgen ) , whilst some sulphuret of silver would have been produced .
5 .
Though the result just related appeared sufficiently conclusive , we thought it desirable to have it confirmed by some other mode of proceedirg .
With this view , we heated to incipient redness , in glass tubes , various metallic oxyds , such as red oxyd of iron , black oxyd of manganese , oxyd of tin ; and we caused quantities of the oily liquor in vapour to pass through these ignited oxyds , The liquor was , by that means , entirely decomposed ; the metallic oxyds were converted into sulphu~rets~ and thegases aquired strong smell of sulphureous lSi acid .
But we could not , in any of our experiments , detect the least production of water , although our apparatus was so devised , as to render the smallest quantity of water conspicuous , and although we burnt , in some instances , as much as fifty or sixty grains of the liquor .
From all these experiments , we think ourselves warranted in concluding , that the alcohol of sulphur containsno hydrogen . ?
III .
Experiments to ascertain the presence of Carbon in the Alcohol of Sulphur .
t. The gaseous residue obtained from the combustion of the vapour of the alcohol of sulphur in oxygen gas , by means of VOLTA'S eudiometer ( ?
II .
i. ) , being put in contact with water , was in a great degree absorbed , and the water acquired the taste and smell of sulphureous acid .
The remaining gas being agitated with lime water was partly absorbed , and produced a precipitate of carbonate of lime .
The unabsorbed portion being mixed with oxygen gas , and the electrical spark passed through the mixed gases , they detonated , and the remaining elastic fluid was found to have again acquired by this detonation the property of rendering lime water turbid , and of forming carbonate of lime .
The residue of the first detonation was therefore gaseous oxyd of carbon .
2 .
We introduced into a glass receiver , filled with pure oxygen gas , and inverted over mercury , a small glass capsule full of the oily substance , which we kindled in the air before we plunged it into the gas .
It continued to burn , and we were not a little surprised to find , that the heat of this combustion was sufficiently intense to melt a pretty strong platina wire , by which the capsule was suspended , so that it fell with its Bb contents upon the surface of the mercury , where the oily liquor contirued to burn until it was all consumed .
Water being then introduced , an absorption of gas took place , and the water became sulphureous .
The unabsorbed portion of gas being introduced into lime water , rendered it turbid , and formed a quantity of carbonate of lime , which was sufficient to be carefully examined and accurately estimated .
3 .
We caused some alcohol of sulphur to dissolve in barytic water , in a well stoppered bottle .
This solution proceeded very slowly , and was only completed at the end of three weeks .
The barytic water had assumed a yellowish colour , and had deposited a white precipitate , which being well washed , and treated with liquid sulphureous acid , dissolved in it with effervescence .
It was therefore carbonate of barytes .
4 .
A similar experiment being tried with lime water , an analogous result was obtained .
It follows from these experiments , that the alcohol of sulphur contains carbon , and therefore that this body , the nature of which has been the subject of so much doubt and speculation , is a true SULPHURET OF CARBON , a name by which , in compliance to the received chemical nomenclature , we shall henceforth usually designate it in the course of this paper . ?
IV .
Experiments to determine the Proportions of Sulphur and Carbon , in the Sulphuret of Carbon .
In attempting to analyse , with accuracy , the sulphuret of carbon , considerable difficulties occur from the great volatility of that compound , and from the inconsiderable action which most chemical agents exert upon it .
i. We first tried to ascertain the proportion of its constituent parts , by exploding it , in a state of vapour , with oxygen gas , in Volta 's eudiometer ; but this method presented insurmountable obstacles , and in particular that of our not being able to determine , with accuracy , the quantity of the oily substance actually decomposed by that process .
2 .
On the other hand , on attempting simply to burn in oxygen gas the sulphuret of carbon in its liquid state , the necessity of previously kindling it in the air , in order to avoid explosions , prevented our being able to ascertain , with accuracy , the quantity of the oily substance submitted to the experiment .
3 .
We also atteinpted the oxydation of the sulphuret of carbon by nitro-muriatic acid ; but we obtained by this method , as we shall see afterwards , results and combinations which were quite different from those which we had expected.* 4 .
We then had recourse to the action of alkaline substances on the sulphuret of carbon , with a view to produce an alkaline sulphuret , and afterwards to convert this into a sulphate by means of nitro-muriatic acid .
The sulphuric acid , precipitated by a barytic salt , was ultimately expected to indicate the quantity of sulphur contained in the oily compound .
In order to try this method , we exposed portions of the sulphuret of carbon to the action of caustic potash , ammonia , barytic water , &amp;c. and when the solutions appeared to be completed , we tried the effect of acids upon them ; these separated from them a s)ft , reddish , glutinous substance , which , when exposed to distillation , yielded , first , a portion of the oily liquor undecomposed , and afterwards sulphur ; thus showing that the whole of the sulphuret of carbon had not been decomposed .
A black powder remained in the retort , which was found to be charcoal , and afforded us a new and unequivocal proof of the presence of carbon in the oily substance .
This imperfect decomposition of the sulphuret of carbon in alkaline solutions , was found an insurmountable objection to this mode of analysis ; and induced us to try the method of distilling the sulphuret through ignited metallic oxyds .
5 .
For this purpose , we introduced a glass tube ( BC ) , in an inclined direction , through a small stove ( fig. - , A ) , the E ; , ~32 ' ... ... . .
C tube being protected by lute , and filled with red oxyd of iron coarsely pulverised .
The sulphuret of carbon , after being accurately weighed , was enclosed in a little retort ( E ) , which we hermetically sealed to the upper extremity of the tube ( B ) .
To the other extremity ( C ) , we adapted another glass tube ( CGI ) , terminating in a mercurial pneumatic apparatus ( H ) , and having a bulb or expansion ( in G ) , at about half way between its extremities , which bulb was cooled down to about 1i ?
FAHRENHEIT , and kept at that temperature during the experiment by means of a mixture of ice and salt .
The tube in the stove ( BC ) being now heated to redness , and an extremely gentle degree of heat applied to the retort , the oily liquor distilled slowly through the red hot oxyd of iron , and the whole of the experiment succeeded in a most satisfactory manner ; for we found that the joints of the apparatus had remained perfectly tight during the process , and every vestige of the sulphuret of carbon had been decomposed.* We could not perceive in the bulb the least appearance of moisture .
6 .
The oxyd of iron ( the whole weight of which was about ten times that of the oil decomposed ) , was partly converted into sulphuret of iron , having a yellow colour and a brilliant metallic lustre .
This sulphuret was dissolved by nitro-muriatic acid , and the oxyd of iron was separated by ammonia .
The filtered liquid , being neutralized by muriatic acid , was precipitated by niuriate of barytes , and the precipitate was well washed , and heated to redness .
7 .
During the process of decomposition above related , the mixture of sulphureous acid gas and carbonic acid gas had collected in the receiver ( H ) placed on the extremity of the tube .
In order to separate these two gases from each other , we made use of the brown oxyd of lead , a substance which one of us had often employed for the purpose of combining with , and separating from other bodies , liquid sulphureous acid , with which that oxyd forms a neutral sulphate .
The same method , to our great satisfaction , succeeded perfectly with the gaseous sulphureous acid .
After a contact of about one hour , between the brown oxyd of lead and our mixed gases , the whole of the sulphureous acid gas was so completely absorbed , that the carbonic acid gas which remained in the vessel , had not the least sulphureous smell , and yet the carbonic acid itself remained perfectly unaltered in its bulk , after continuing in contact with the oxyd of lead for the space of three days.* 8 .
The mode in which the respective weight of the two acids was ascertained was this ; the oxyd of lead was placed in a small glass capsule ( a , fig. 2 ) , the orifice of which was carefuilly secured , by means of a thin piece of glove-leather , against the admission of quicksilver .
A very thin flexible metallic wire was fastened to the capsule , so as to enable the operator to raise it through the mercury in the receiver containing the gases , as is expressed in the figure ( fig. 2 ) .
After continuing the contact for several hours , and when the absorption had The brown oxyd of lead , used in our experiments , was recently prepared , and had been long digested in weak nitric acid .
In wiping this oxyd , and pressing the moisture out of it , we found it expedient to reduce it to the state of small laminae , as in this form it is more easily penetrated by the acid gas than in the state of powder .
It may be proper to remark , that when , for the sake of trial , gaseous mixtures , consisting of sulphureous acid gas and sulphuret of carbon in vapour , were used , the latter , as the absorption of the acid gas proceeded , was deposited in its liquid state upon the oxyd of lead .
ceased for a considerable time , the capsule was withdrawn , and another similar capsule filled with dry caustic potash ( hydrate of potash ) , was introduced in a similar manner .
The remaining gas ( with the exception of a small residue ) , * was immediately absorbed .
Both capsules , after wiping off minute particles of quicksilver which adhered to their surface , were carefully weighed and were found to have undergone an increase of weight , which , of course , expressed the quantity of acid they had respectively absorbed .
By combining these results with the examination above described ( ?
IV .
6 .
) , of the sulphuret of iron found in the tube , the proportions of sulphur and carbon were deduced .
Two such experiments were made which yielded very similar results ; and by a mode of computation , which will be detailed in the Appendix , we were led to conclude that the alcohol of sulphur , or sulphuret of carbon consists of Sulphur 84,83 or ioo , oo Carbon 15,17 17,89 .
If these proportions be compared with the numbers 13 and 5 , which are assumed by Mr. DALTON as representing the respective weights of a particle of sulphur and a particle of carbon ; or with those of So and 11,4 , which are considered by Sir HUMPHRY DAVY as representing the same substances , we shall find that either of these modes of computation , as well as that detailed in the Appendix , maike the above-mentioned proportions of sulphur and carbon , in the alcohol of sulphur , correspond very nearly to two atoms or portions of sulphur , to one of carbon ; a result which is perfectly agreeable to the doctrine of determinate proportions .
And as the recovered by our analysis , were precisely equal in weight to the sulphuret of carbon subjected to examination , we are the more confident in believing that it does not contain any other element .
APPENDIX BY PROFESSOR BERZELIUS .
A. Particulars respecting the Mode in which the Proportions of Sulphur and Carbon , in the Alcohol of Sulphur , were established .
Two analytical experiments were made in succession , in the manner described in the paper ( ?
IV .
) , with the following results .
Exp. i. i , o5 parts * of sulphuret of carbon produced o,24 parts of sulphureous acid gas , and 0,59 parts of carbonic acid .
The sulphuret of iron found in the tube was dissolved in nitromuriatic acid ; the oxyd of iron was precipitated from this solution by caustic ammonia in excess , and the filtered liquor was neutralized by muriatic acid .
From this solution , muriate of barytes precipitated a quantity of sulphate of barytes , which , after ignition , weighed 5,6 .
From Mr. T. DE SAUSSURE'S experiments , as well as from inference from the doctrine of determinate proportions , 1oo parts of carbonic acid contain from 27 to 27,1 parts of carbon .
Therefore the above mentioned 0,59 parts of carbonic acid contain 0,1595 of carbon .
From the experiments on the composition of sulphate of barytes , published by myself , ioo parts of that salt contain 13,66 of sulphur ; therefore the 5,6 parts of sulphate of barytes , are equivalent to 0,765 of sulphur , which , added to the 0,1224 parts of sulphur contained in the o,24 parts of sulphureous acid gas , make 88,74 parts of sulphur .
The sum total of sulphur and carbon is , therefore , 88,74 + 15,93 = 104,67 .
But the quantity of the sulphur of carbon was 105 parts ; consequently there is a loss of X per cent. From this experiment therefore , the sulphuret of carbon is composed of 15,7 parts of carbon to 84,83 parts of sulphur .
Exp. 2 .
1,175 parts of sulphuret of carbon produced 0,66 of carbonic acid gas , = 0,1782 parts ( which is equivalent to 15,167 per cent. ) of carbon ; and 0,271 parts of sulphureous acid gas = 0,138 of sulphur .
In the superior extremity of the glass tube which contained the oxyd of iron , there was found , in that part of the tube which projected out of the stove , a small portion of sublimed sulphur weighing o , o029 .
The sulphuret of iron found in the tube afforded , by the mode of estimation above related , 6,06 parts of ignited sulphate of barytes = o,829 of sulphur ; therefore the sum total of sulphur is o,829 + 0,29 + 0,138 = 0,996 parts of sulphur , which added to o , i782 parts of carbon , makes 1,1 742 parts , or 0 , ooo8 less than the weight of the sulphuret of carbon employed in the analysis .
B. Comparison of the above Proportions of Sulphur and Carbon , in the Sulphuret of Carbon , with those which might be inferred from the laws of determinate Proportions .
The law respecting the combination of combustible bodies between themselves , is that , when two such bodies unite , the proportion in which this combination takes place is such that if they be oxydated to a certain degree , they will either absorb an equal quantity of oxygen , or the one will absorb two , three , four , &amp;c. times as much oxygen as the other .
As to the metallic sulphurets in general , those which are called sulphurets at the minimum , are so composed that the sulphur requires twice as much oxygen in order to become sulphureous acid , or three times as much in order to become sulphuric acid , as the metallic body requires to become an oxyd or saline basis ; and it is on that account , that the sulphurets in minimum produce , by their oxydation , neutral sulphites , or sulphates .
Now , by comparing the quantities of oxygen required to convert the sulphur into sulphureous acid , and the carbon into carbonic acid , it appears that the first quantity is twice as great as the latter .
The small difference is to be ascribed to the impossibility of obtaining perfectly accurate results in analytical processes so complicated as this ; and therefore the sulphuret of carbon may be considered as constituted according to the same law as the other sulphurets ; so that the sulphur which it contains requires twice as much oxygen to become sulphureous acid , as the carbon requires to become carbonic acid .
Admitting , therefore , that the above views of the composition of those two acids are correct , the sulphuret of carbon would consist of 15,47 parts of carbon , to 84,53 parts of sulphur ; and in that case the result of our analysis of the alcohol of sulphur would only differ by 1 per cent. from the proportions obtained by that mode of estimation .
C. Observations on the atomic doctrine of chemical Combination .
Mr. DALTON has lately proposed a mode of viewing the subject of determinate proportions , which is distinguished by 1go its extreme simplicity .
From that ingenious mode of expressing combinations , the sulphuret of carbon ought to consist of two atoms of sulphur to one of carbon , since , according to that system , both the sulphureous and carbonic acids are composed of two atoms of oxygen to one of radical .
But it is probable , that the gaseous oxyd of carbon consists of two atoms of carbon to one of oxygen , because the quantity of carbon required to convert carbonic acid into carbonic oxyd , exactly doubles the volume of the acid .
In this case , and if , according to Mr. DALTON'S supposition , sulphureous acid consists of two atoms of oxygen to one of sulphur , the alcohol of sulphur would be , like all the other sulphurets at the minimum , composed of one atom of sulphur to one of carbon .
Sir H. DAVY , in his Elements of Chemical Philosophy , adopts , like Mr. DALTON , the idea that sulphureous acid gas consists of one portion of sulphur to two of oxygen ; and agreeably to this , he supposes for instance that the sulphurets of copper , or of silver , are composed of one portion of sulphur to one of the metal .
But on the other hand , he considers other sulphurets , such as those of antimony , of iron , and of lead , as consisting of two portions of sulphur to one of the metal , and the sulphuret of zinc would , according to his views , be composed of two portions of the metal to one of sulphur .
Yet , notwithstanding this great diversity in the estimation of proportions , all these sulphurets are so constituted that , if the compound be fully oxydated , it remains in a state of perfect saturation .
The cause of these apparent inconsistencies seems to be , that the supposed atom , or ultimate particle , or that which is to be regarded as the single portion of a body , requires to be fixed according to some determinate law , before Mr. DALTON'S 191 ingenious method of expressing the proportions in which bodies combine , can be applied with certainty and precision.* D. Experiments on the Combination of the Sulphuret of Carbon , with the Alkalies , the Earths , and the metallic Oxyds .
The following experiments will show in an unequivocal manner , that the sulphuret of carbon is capable of combining with saline bases .
These combinations constitute a new class of bodies , for which there is no name in our present chemical nomenclature .
I shall propose to call them carbosulphurets , a name quite consonant with the principles of the received chemical nomenclature .
The unavoidable presence of water , in either caustic potash or soda , induced me to try , in the first instance , the action of ammoniacal gas on the sulphuret of carbon .
Carbosulphuret of Ammonia .
Some ammoniacal gas , and some liquid sulphuret of carbon were successively introduced into a receiver filled with mercury , the sulphuret being enclosed in a small glass bulb having an open orifice .
The first effect of this contact was a dilatation of the gas ; the surface of the sulphuret soon covered itself with a pulverulent strawcoloured substance , as if a portion of sulphur had been precipitated .
After a few hours , the gaseous mixture had sensibly diminished in bulk , and as this diminution proceeded , the gas gradually deposited on the surface of the glass a saline yellowish substance , which did not exhibit , even with the aid of a microscope , the least appearance of crystallization .
The mercury having at last filled the receiver , an additional portion of ammoniacal gas was introduced , and this was repeated till no further absorption took place .
The whole of the sulphuret of carbon was then found converted into the yellowish uncrystallized matter just described .
This substance had a strong smell of ammonia , and was so deliquescent that it could not be transferred from one vessel into another , without undergoing an obvious alteration .
The solution of this substance in water is first red , but it very soon passes to a deep orange colour , showing that it undergoes a partial decomposition ; and if it be distilled in its solid , though humid state , it sublimes and deposits small shining crystals of hydrosulphuret of ammonia ; whilst , on the contrary , if it be heated in the same vessel in which it is formed , that is , without any access of air or moisture , the carbosulphuret of ammonia sublimes unchanged , from one part of the vessel to the other , and no vestige of hydrosulphuret is perceived .
It appears therefore , that the sulphuret of carbon can enter into combination with pure ammonia without depositing its carbon ; but if moisture or air be admitted , an alkaline hydrosulphuret , or sulphuret is formed , and carbonic acid is generated .
Carbosulphuret of lime .
If some pure quick lime be heated in a glass tube , by means of a lamp , and some sulphuret of carbon in vapour be made to pass through the heated earth , the latter becomes ignited at the moment the vapour comes into contact with it , and this ignition continues till the earth is 193 During this process , none of the sulphuret of carbon escapes , the whole of it being absorbed by the lime .
The earth , at its surface , is found yellowish , owing to the formation of a little sulphuret of lime , but this appearance ceases on removing the surface , showing that it arises from the contact of air .
The earthy mass is tasteless , when first applied to the tongue , but a bitter taste , with a smell of sulphuretted hydrogen are soon perceived .
It is no longer susceptible of being heated or dissolved by water .
If digested with water in close vessels , a solution of hydrosulphuret of lime is obtained , and the undissolved portion is mostly found to be carbonate of lime .
Carbosulphurets of barytes and strontian may be produced in a similar manner , and are found to possess analogous properties .
There can be no doubt but that the two fixed alkalies , in a state of perfect dryness , would form , with the sulphuret of carbon , carbosulphurets of potash and soda , quite analogous to those just described ; but as these alkalies cannot be obtained in an anhydral state , I could only examine their action on the sulphuret of carbon when in a state of solution .
The general result of these trials was , that if a quantity of the sulphuret of carbon be long digested , at a very gentle heat , with a solution of caustic potash , the sulphuret of carbon is decomposed , and the mixture resolves itself into a hydrosulphuret , and carbosulphuret , and a carbonate of potash .
In the same manner , if sulphuret of carbon be long digested with liquid caustic ammonia , it dissolves very slowly , fborming an orange coloured solution analogous to that in caustic potash just described .
194 , I tried also to produce carbosulphurets of metallic oxyds .
The process simply consisted in precipitating metallic solutions , by solutions of the sulphuret of carbon in caustic potash .
The precipitates which were thus obtained , had characters sufficiently distinct to show that they were chiefly metallic carbosulphurets ; but as the presence of a hydrosulphuret , and of carbonate of potash , in the solutions used for these precipitations , necessarily interfered with the distinctness of the results , I shall not trouble the Society with a detail of these experiments .
E. Experiments to determine the nature of a particular Substance , produced by the action of nitro-muriatic A6id , on the Sulphuret of Carbon .
We have already alluded , Dr. MARCET and myself , in the course of our paper , to a new and singular substance , which we produced by the long continued action of nitro-muriatic acid on the sulphuret of carbon .
This compound was discovered in the following manner .
A portion of sulphuret of carbon was exposed to the action of a mixture of fuming nitric acid with concentrated muriatic acid .
The acid instantly acquired a peculiar odour resembling that of muriated sulphur .
Upon trying to promote the combination by applying heat , the sulphuret of carbon was expelled in the form of vapour , which obliged us to leave the mixture to its own spontaneous action , under the temperature of the atmosphere , which was then at least 7o ?
.* The sulphuret of carbon soon passed to a reddish orange colour , which it communicated to the acid ; and during this change , nitrous gas , with a strong smell of muriated sulphur , was slowly evolved .
After the space of a week , the liquor began to cover itself with a white crystalline substance , losing at the same time its colour .
On stirring the mixture , these crystals fell to the bottom , where they were immediately dissolved by the remaining sulphuret of carbon .
This , however , in proportion as it saturated itself with the new formed substance , gradually lost its colour , acquired a greater consistence , and at last , at the end of three weeks , it was entirely converted into a solid white crystalline body , having the appearance of camphor .
This substance being separated from the acid , and washed with cold water , presented the following characters : it was colourless ; its smell resembled both that of muriated sulphur and of oxyd of osmium ; its taste was both acrid and acid ; it was very volatile , melted at a gentle heat , and sublimed without residue .
In fact , this body very closely resembles camphor in its external properties .
It is insoluble in water , but readily dissolves in alcohol and ether , from which it is precipitated by water ; it is also soluble in the oils , whether fixed or volatile , with which it forms transparent solutions .
The spirituous solution of this substance has a peculiar , disagreeable , and very acid taste .
It reddens litmus paper , and dissolves zinc with the disengagement of an extremely fetid gas .
From this solution , a spirituous liquor is obtained by distillation , which possesses the same smell , and leaves a residue of muriate and sulphate of zinc .
When a pure solution of the peculiar substance in alcohol is submitted to distillation , the products are , first , some Eulphureous acid gas , and then alcohol strongly impregnated with muriatic ether ; after which the air of the 196g vessel is found to contain portions of sulphureous and carbonic acid .
The peculiar substance , in its dry state , does not alter litmus paper ; but it reddens it strongly if the paper be moistened .
When exposed to the action of boiling water , this body volatilizes through the water , but the remaining liquor contains some muriatic and a little sulphuric acid .
Water , therefore , has the power of decomposing , though very slowly , this substance .
Indeed if it be left a long time in contact with a small proportion of water , the liquor becomes strongly acid .
Liquid caustic potash assisted by heat , dissolves the peculiar substance without any disengagement of gas .
This solution is colourless ; when neutralized by sulphuric acid no precipitation takes place from it , which shows that the alkali decomposes the peculiar body .
Sulphuric acid , however , produces a slight effervescence , and the liquor exhales a smell of sublphureous acid .
On adding to it a solution of sulphate of silver , muriated silver is precipitated , These results tend to show , that the substance in question contains sulphur and carbon in combination with oxygen , that is in the state of sulphureous and carbonic acid ; for otherwise , some carbon would have been precipitated , or some sulphuret or hydrosulphuret of potash would have been formed .
And again , a portion of the problematic substance being sublimed through ignited lime in a glass tube , it was absorbed by the lime without any vestige of sulphuret of lime being formed , or any carbon deposited .
And a similar experiment being tried with ignited metallic iron , instead of lime , some muriate of iron and a sulphuret of oxyd of iron* were formed , and carbonic acid gas was disengaged .
This last Sulpbhure d'oxidule defcr .
Dd experiment in particular showed clearly that the substance in question contains carbonic acid .
The existence of three acids united in this compound , being thus ascertained , their respective proportions remained to be determined .
It was by an experiment similar to the last described , that this object was obtained .
The outline of this analysis , a minute detail of which would unnecessarily prolong this communication , was as follows : A portion of the compound , after being weighed with great accuracy , was sublimed through a tube containing some very fine spiral iron wire in a state of ignition , the weight of which was three times that of the compound submitted to analysis .
A decomposition took place , the products of which were , as in the experiment above related , muriate of iron , sulphuret of oxyd of iron , and a mixture of the carbonic oxyd and acid gases .
These being carefully examined by appropriate reagents , * so as to form an estimate of the quantities of the muriatic , sulphureous , and carbonic acids contained in the peculiar compound , the following ultimate result , respecting the nature and proportions of its constituent parts , was obtained , viz. Muriatic acid 48,74 Sulphureous acid 29,63 Carbonic acid ( and loss ) 21,63 100,00 From the mode of computation adopted by Mr. DALTON , this triple acid would be composed of two atoms of muriatic acid , to one of the sulphureous , and one of the carbonic acid .
It is a remarkable circumstance that the proportions of sulphur and carbon which prevail in the sulphuret of carbon , no longer obtain in this compound ; one of the atoms of sulphur being expelled during the formation of the triple acid , and converted into sulphuric acid , which is found in the nitro-muriatic liquor .
The reason why the combination in question does not take place on burning the sulphuret of carbon in oxymuriatic gas , is that this gas does not yield a sufficient quantity of oxygen to acidify the sulphur and carbon , which are to unite with the muriatic acid , so that either nitric acid must be added , or a portion of muriatic acid must be detached from the oxymuriatic gas , by the agency of water , or of some other oxydated body .
It will be necessary to give a name to this triple acid .
The combination of the fluoric with the boracic acid has been called fuo-boric acid ; but the word fluo does not express the degree of acidification of the radical , which would be of great advantage in systematic language .
In the Essay on the Latin Chemical Nomenclature , which I published some time ago , I proposed the name of acidum boracico-fluoricum .
Upon the same principle , the combination , of the muriatic and carbonic acid , discovered by Mr. J. DAVY , would be named acidumn carbonico-muriaticum ; the combination of the sulphureous and muriatic acid ( should such a compound be discovered ) , would be called acidum sulphuroso-muriaticum ; and our triple acid would be acidum muriaticum sulphuroso-carbonicum , a name inconvenient by its length , but perfectly consolant to the principles of Chemical Nomenclature .
199

