II .
" Experimental Researches in Magnetism and Electricity."Part I. By H. WILDE , Esq. Communicated by Mr. Faraday .
Received March 26 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is divided into two sections , the first being on some new and paradoxical phenomena in electro-magnetic induction , and its relation to the principle of the conservation of physical force ; the second on a new and powerful generator of dynamic electricity .
The author defines the principle of the conservation of force to be the definite quantitative relation existing between all phenomena whatsoever ; and in the particular application of the principle to the advancement of physical science and the mechanical arts , certain problems are pointed out which , in their solution , bring out results as surprising as they are paradoxical .
Although , when rightly interpreted , the results obtained are in strict accordance with the principle of conservation , yet they are , at the same time , contrary to the inferences which are generally drawn from analogical reasonings , and to some of those maxims which philosophers propound for the consideration of others .
The author directs attention to some new and paradoxical phenomena arising out of Faraday 's important discovery of magneto-electric induction , the close consideration of which has resulted in the discovery of a means of producing dynamic electricity in quantities unattainable by any apparatus hitherto constructed .
He has found that an indefinitely small amount of magnetism , or of dynamic electricity , is capable of inducing an indefinitely large amount of magnetism , and again , that an indefinitely small amount of dynamic electricity , or of magnetism , is capable of evolving an indefinitely large amount of dynamic electricity .
The apparatus with which the experiments were made consisted of a compound hollow cylinder of brass and iron , termed by the author a magnet-cylinder , the internal diameter of which was 1inch .
On this cylinder could be placed , at pleasure , one or more permanent horseshoe magnets .
Each of these permanent magnets weighed about 1 lb. , and would sustain a weight of about 10 lbs. An armature was made to revolve rapidly in the interior of the cylinder , in close proximity to its sides , but without touching .
Around this armature 163 feet of insulated copper wire was coiled , 0'03 of an inch in diameter , and the free ends of the wire were connected with a commutator fixed upon the armature-axis , for the purpose of taking the alternating waves of electricity from the machine in one direction only .
The direct current of electricity was then transmitted through the coils of a tangent galvanometer ; and as each additional magnet was placed upon the magnet-cylinder , it was found that the quantity of electricity generated in the coils of the armature was very nearly in direct proportion to the number of magnets on the cylinder .
Experiments were then made for the purpose of ascertaining what relation existed between the sustaining-power of the permanent magnets on the magnet-cylinder , and that of an electro-magnet excited by the electricity derived from the armature .
When four permanent magnets capable of sustaining collectively a weight of 40 lbs. were placed upon the cylinder , and when the submagnet was placed in metallic contact with the poles of the electro-magnet , a weight of 178 lbs.-was required to separate them .
With a larger electromagnet a weight of not less than 1080 lbs. was required to overcome the attractive force of the electro-magnet , or twenty-seven times the weight which the four permanent magnets used in exciting it were collectively able to sustain .
It was further found that this great difference between the power of a permanent magnet and that of an electro-magnet excited through its agency might be indefinitely increased .
Experiments were then made with electro-magnets of various sizes , for the purpose of ascertaining the cause of these paradoxical results .
When the wires forming the polar terminals of the magneto-electric machine were connected for a short time with those of a very large electromagnet , a bright spark could be obtained from the electro-helices twentyfive seconds after all connexion with the magneto-electric machine had been broken .
Hence it is inferred that an electro-magnet possesses the power of accumulating and retaining a charge of electricity in a manner analogous to , but not identical with , that in which it is retained in insulated submarine cables , and in the Leyden jar .
It was also found that the electro-helices offered a temporary resistance to the passage of the current from the magneto-electric machine .
When four magnets were placed on the cylinder , the current from the machine did not attain a permanent degree of intensity until an interval of fifteen seconds had elapsed ; but when a more powerful machine was used for exciting the electrohelices , the current attained a permanent degree of intensity after an interval of four seconds had elapsed .
The general conclusion which is drawn by the author from a consideration of these experiments is , that when an electro-magnet is excited through the agency of a permanent magnet , the large amount of magnetism manifested in the electro-magnet , simultaneously with the small amount manifested in the permanent magnet , is the constant accompaniment of a correlative amount of electricity evolved from the magneto-electric machine , either all at once , in a large quantity , or by a continuous succession of small quantities , the power which the metals ( but more particularly iron ) possess of accumulating and retaining a temporary charge of electricity , or of magnetism , or of both together ( according to the mode in which these forces are viewed by physicists ) , giving rise to the paradoxical phenomena which form the subject of this part of the investigation .
Having established the fact that a large amount of magnetism can be developed in an electro-magnet by means of a permanent magnet of much smaller power , it appeared reasonable to the author to suppose that a large electro-magnet excited by means of a small magneto-electric machine could , by suitable arrangements , be made instrumental in evolving a proportionately large amount of dynamic electricity .
Two magnet-cylinders were therefore made , having a bore of 2inches , and a length of 121 inches or five times the diameter of the bore .
As frequent mention is made of the different-sized machines employed in these investigations , they are distinguished by the calibre , or bore of the magnet-cylinders .
Each cylinder was fitted with an armature , round which was coiled an insulated strand of copper wire 67 feet in length , and 0'15 of an inch in diameter .
Upon one of the magnet-cylinders sixteen permanent magnets were fixed , and to the sides of the other magnet-cylinder was bolted an electromagnet formed of two rectangular pieces of boiler-plate enveloped with coils of insulated copper wire .
The armatures of the 2--inch magnetoelectric and electro-magnetic machines were driven simultaneously at an equal velocity of 2500 revolutions per minute .
When the electricity from the magneto-electric machine was transmitted through a piece of No. 20 iron wire 0'04 of an inch in diameter , a length of 3 inches of this wire was made red-hot .
When the direct current from the magneto-electric machine was transmitted through the coils of the electro-magnet of the electromagnetic machine , the electricity from the latter melted 8 inches of the same-sized iron wire as was used in the preceding experiment , and a length of 24 inches was made red-hot .
When the electro-magnet of a 5-inch machine was excited by the 2'-inch magneto-electric machine , the electricity from the 5-inch electro-magnetic machine melted 15 inches of No. 15 iron wire 0'075 of an inch in diameter .
The author having found that an increase in the dimensions of the machines was accompanied by a proportionate and satisfactory increase of the magnetic and electric forces , a 10-inch electro-magnetic machine was constructed : the weight of its electro-magnet is nearly 3 tons , and the total weight of the machine is about 4tons .
The machine is furnished with two armatures-one for the production of " intensity"- , and the other for the production of " quantity"-effects .
The intensity armature is coiled with an insulated conductor consisting of a bundle of thirteen No. 11 copper wires , each 0 125 of an inch in diameter .
The coil is 376 feet in length , and weighs 232 lbs. The quantity armature is enveloped with the folds of an insulated copperplate conductor 67 feet in length , the weight of which is 344 lbs. These armatures are driven at a uniform velocity of 1500 revolutions per minute , by means of a broad leather belt of the strongest description .
When the direct current from the 1-5inch magneto-electric machine , having on its cylinder six permanent magnets , was transmitted through the coils of the electro-magnet of the 5-inch electro-magnetic machine , and when the direct current from the latter was simultaneously , and in like manner , transmitted through the coils of the electro-magnet of the 1 0-inch machine , an amount of magnetic force was developed in the large electromagnet far exceeding anything which has hitherto been produced , accompanied by the evolution of an amount of dynamic electricity from the quantity armature so enormous as to melt pieces of cylindrical iron rod 15 inches in length , and fully one-quarter of an inch in diameter .
With the same arrangement , the electricity from the quantity armature also melted 15 inches of No. 11 copper wire 0 125 of an inch in diameter .
When the intensity armature was placed in the magnet cylinder , the electricity from it melted 7 feet of No. 16 iron wire 0'065 of an inch in diameter , and made a length of 21 feet of the same wire red-hot .
The illuminating power of the electricity from the intensity armature is , as might be expected , of the most splendid description .
When an electric lamp , furnished with rods of gas-carbon half an inch square , was placed at the top of a lofty building , the light evolved from it was sufficient to cast the shadows from the flames of the street-lamps a quarter of a mile distant upon the neighbouring walls .
When viewed from that distance , the rays proceeding from the reflector have all the rich effulgence of sunshine .
A piece of the ordinary sensitized paper , such as is used for photographic printing , when exposed to the action of the light for twenty seconds , at a distance of 2 feet from the reflector , was darkened to the same degree as was a piece of the same sheet of paper when exposed for a period of one minute to the direct rays of the sun , at noon , on a very clear day in the month of March .
The extraordinary calorific and illuminating powers of the 10-inch machine are all the more remarkable from the fact that they have their origin in six small permanent magnets , weighing only 1 lb. each , and only capable , at most , of sustaining collectively a weight of 60 lbs. ; while the electricity from the magneto-electric machine employed in exciting the electro-magnet was of itself incapable of heating to redness the shortest length of iron wire of the smallest size manufactured .
The production of so large an amount of electricity was only obtained ( as might have been anticipated by the physicist ) by a correspondingly large amount of mechanical force ; for it was found that the large electromagnet could be excited to such a degree that the strong leather belt was scarcely able to drive the machine .
When the electro-magnet of the 10-inch machine was excited by means of the 21-inch magneto-electric machine alone , about two-thirds of the maximum amount of power from the 10-inch machine was obtained .
From a consideration of the combined action of the magneto-electric and electro-magnetic machines , the author points out a remarkable analogy , subsisting between the operation of the static forces of magnetism and of cohesion in modifying dynamical phenomena , which throws additional light upon the nature of the magnetic force .
On reviewing and comparing the whole of the analogous phenomena manifested in the operation of the magnetic and cohesive forces under the varied conditions to which the author invites attention , it appears to him that magnetism is a mode of the force of cohesion , or is , if the term be allowed , polar cohesion acting at sensible distances , the equivalent of magnetic force being obtained at the expense of an equivalent of ordinary cohesive force ( in an axial direction ) so long as the iron continues to be magnetized .

