investigation and for the case of any quadric function of n variables , was first obtained by M. Hermit in the memoir " Remarques sir un Memoir de M. Cayley relatif aux determinants gauches , " Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal , t. ix .
pp. 63-67 ( 1854 ) .
This solution is in my Memoir " Sir la transformation d'une function quadratique en elle-meme par des substitutions lineaires , " Crelle , t. 1 .
pp. 288-299 ( 1855 ) , presented under a somewhat different form involving the notation of matrices .
I have since found that there is a like transformation of a bipartite quadric function , that is a lineolinear function of two distinct sets , each of the same number of variables , and the development of the transformation is the subject of the present memoir .
V. " On some of the Products of the Destructive Distillation of Boghead Coal."-Part II .
By C. GREVILLE WILLIAMS , Esq. , Lecturer on Chemistry in the Normal College , Swansea .
Communicated by Professor SToKEs , Sec. R.S. Received December 17 , 1857 .
[ Abstract .
] In this paper the author describes the method adopted by him for the separation of the three classes of hydrocarbons forming the more volatile portion of the distillate .
On treatment with bromine in presence of water , the naphtha is entirely converted into a heavy oil , containing the C " H " series chemically , and propyle and benzole mechanically combined .
The two latter may be removed by mere distillation on the water-bath .
They are easily separable by fuming nitric acid , the benzole being dissolved while the propyle is untouched .
The nitro-benzole obtained in this manner , on treatment by Bechamp 's process , yields aniline mixed with a little toluidine , but no bases belonging to any other class .
The bromine compound ( in consequence of its preparation in presence of water ) could not be obtained free from oxygen .
When kept for some time it separates into three layers , the upper being water faintly acidulated with hydrobromic acid , the middle bromine compound , and the lower , hydrobromic acid of 37 per cent. , and the 103 density 1 320 .
The bromine compounds , treated successively with alcoholic potash and sodium , undergo a curious decomposition , the original hydrocarbons , from which they were derived , being regenerated .
The brominated oil from the naphtha , boiling between 71 ?
and 77 ?
, affords hexylene boiling at 71 ?
, and the oil from the next homologue distilling between 82 ?
and 880 , yields heptylene boiling at 99 ? .
The annexed Table illustrates some of their physical properties .
Physical Properties of HIexylene and Heptylene from Boghead Naphtha .
Density of Volume .
Formula .
Boiling .
Density at point .
18 .
Expt. Theory .
Hiexylene C12 12 71ยง 3-020 2-904 Heptylene C14 H14 99 ?
01718 3-320 3-386 VI .
" On the Electrical Nature of the Power possessed by the Actinie of our Shores .
" By RoBERT M'DONNELL , M.D. , M.R.IA .
, Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology in the Carmichael School of Medicine , Dublin .
Communicated by WILLIAM BOWMAN , F.R.S. , Surgeon to King 's College Hospital and the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital .
Received November 30 , 1857 .
After referring to the well-known phenomena manifested by electrical fishes , and to alleged instances of numbing effects , but of doubtful electrical nature , produced on the naked hand by the contact of certain marine Invertebrata , the author describes his own observations and experiments with the Actinia as follows : Suppose that into a vessel containing some actinice well expanded , and apparently on the look-out for food , some of the tadpoles of the common frog be introduced , these little creatures do not , like many freshwater fishes of about the same dimensions , immediately die ; on the contrary , the salt water seems to stimulate their activity , they become very lively and swim about with vivacity .
One of them may not unfrequently be observed to make its way among the tentacles of

