174 A. O. Des Cloizeaux on [ Feb. 20 , II .
\#171 ; Ona new Locality of Amblygonite , and on Montebrasite , a new Hydrated Aluminium and Lithium Phosphate/ " By A. O. Des Cloizeaux .
Communicated by Prof. W. H. Miller , Foreign Secretary B.S. Received November 27 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) A mineral found in 1862 at Hebron , Maine , U. S. A. , after a mere tentative examination by Professor Brush , who announced the presence in it of lithia in considerable quantity , resembled the amblygonite of Penig so closely as to lead to its being looked on as amblygonite .
The crystalline system and birefringent optical characters of this mineral were determined by the author in 1863 .
In 1870 a mineral found in the tin vein of Montebras ( Creuse ) , though resembling the amblygonite of Hebron , appeared to the author to differ from it so far as to justify his designation of it under the name of Montebrasite .
Towards the close of 1871 he received another specimen from Montebras , which presented all the characters of the American amblygonite , and which consequently was easily distinguished from the montebrasite .
Subsequently , analyses by Pisani , v. Kobell , and Rammelsberg , and optical observations by the author , proved the identity of the montebrasite of Montebras with the amblygonite from Penig .
But this is not the case with the amblygonite from Hebron , nor with that from Montebras , which had been analyzed by Pisani .
These differ from the amblygonites of Saxony and Montebras ( which last he had previously named montebrasite ) by the absence of soda , by the preponderance of lithia , and the presence of a notable amount of water , while at the same time they contain almost equal proportions of phosphoric acid and alumina .
The differences which these two minerals present in their physical and chemical characters are sufficiently decided to compel our treating them as distinct species .
The name amblygonite should be retained for the sodolithic species first discovered at Penig by Breithaupt , and the white or violet-tinted lamellar masses abundant at Montebras will be included under it ; the hydrated and entirelylithic species comprising the laminar specimens and the crystals from Maine , as well as some greenish masses from Montebras , should be embraced under the name montebrasite .
The amblygonite of Montebras has only been met with in laminar masses with a faint tinge of violet .
These masses exhibit two cleavages presenting nearly the same degree of facility , making with one another an angle of 105 ' 44 ' .
Close observation shows that the sharpness of the reflected images is generally a little greater on one of the cleavages than on the other ; and this induces one to suppose that they do not hot belong to equivalent crystallographic planes .
The study of some of their optical properties , though presenting certain special difficulties , arising from the small extent of the transparent portions and the presence o 1873 .
] Amblygcmite and Montebrasite .
175 numerous twin plates , even in the specimens that to all appearance are the most homogeneous , has proved that the laminar masses o\#163 ; montebrasite must be referred to the triclinic system .
The optic axes are situated in a plane which divides into two very unequal parts the acute angle of 74 ' 16 ' of the two cleavages .
This direction is entirely different from that found for montebrasite of Hebron and of Montebras , in which the plane of the axes lies in the obtuse angle of 105 ' formed by the two principal cleavages .
The appearance of the bars traversing the central ring of each system indicates very distinctly a twisted dispersion , as well as a small amount of inclined dispersion , which is characteristic of a crystal belonging to the triclinic system .
In November 1871 the author received a specimen from the middle of a mass of amblygonite from Montebras resembling the mineral from Hebron .
It has three principal cleavages , p , m , t , which the author recognized in the mass from Hebron , the angles between which are jp m = 105 ' ; m*=135 ' to 136 ' , p*=89 ' to 89 ' 15 ' .
By means of artificial twins formed of two plates , each of which had been worked perpendicular to the two cleavages p and m , and which were united by their faces p , it appeared that the plane of the optic axes is situated in the obtuse angle p m , and traverses the edge but-that it is ' m not quite normal to m , since it gives angles of about 82 ' with m and 23 ' with p. The character of the coloured rings shows that in montebrasite of Montebras , as in that from Hebron , there coexists with the horizontal a well-marked inclined dispersion ; and these are peculiar to crystals of the triclinic system .
Analyses by M. Pisani .
Hebron .
Montebras .
Fluorine ... 5-22 3*80 Phosphoric acid . . .
46-65 47-15 Alumina ... ... 36-00 36-90 Lithia 9-75 9-84 Water 4-20 4-75 101-82 102-44 Specific gravity ... . . . . .
3*03 , Pisani .
3*01 , Pisani .
2-99 , Damour .
2-977 , Damour .
Wavellite , in the form of thin coatings , forms a layer over almost all the fissures that occur in the amblygonite of Montebras .
In cavities in these coatings are found long thin needles , which have enabled the author to correct the older measurements of this mineral .
176 Dr. H. Airy on Leaf-Arrangement .
[ Feb. 27 , M. Pisani has ascertained that the variety from Montebras yields :\#151 ; Fluorine ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
2 " 27 Phosphoric acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
34-30 Alumina ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
38-25 Water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 26-60 Specific gravity 101-42 2-33 February 27 , 1873 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communication was read:\#151 ; \#171 ; On Leaf-Arrangement .
" By Hubert Airy , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Charles Darwin , F.B.S. Received January 21 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) Assuming , as generally known , the main facts of leaf-arrangement , \#151 ; the division into the whorled and spiral types , and in the latter more especially the establishment of the convergent series of fractions , S , f , S , f\#165 ; , j8t , |f , 1-1 |f , t\6t , \amp ; c. , as representatives of a corresponding series of spiral leaf-orders among plants , \#151 ; we have to ask , what is the meaning that lies hidden in this law ?
Mr. Darwin has taught us to regard the different species of plants as descended from some common ancestor ; and therefore we must suppose that the different leaf-orders now existing have been derived by different degrees of modification from some common ancestral leaf-order .
One spiral order may be made to pass into another by a twist of the axis that carries the leaves .
This fact indicates the way in which all the spiral orders may have been derived from one original order , namely by means of different degrees of twist in the axis .
We naturally look to the simplest of existing leaf-orders , the two-ranked alternate order f , as standing nearest to the original ; for it is manifest that the orders at the other extreme of the series ( the condensed arrangement of scales on fir-cones , of florets in heads of Composite , of leaves in close-lying plantains , \amp ; c. ) are special and highly developed instances , to meet special needs of protection and congregation : they are , without doubt , the latest feat of phyllotactic development ; and we may be sure that the course of change has been from the simple to the complex , not the reverse .
This point will be illustrated by experiment below .

