The following communications were read : 1 .
" ' Observations on the Freezing of the Albumen of Eggs .
" By James Paget , Esq. , Professor of Anatomy and Surgery to the Royal College of Surgeons .
Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , Sec. R.S. &amp;c. The object of this paper is to illustrate a peculiar property of the albumen of the eggs of birds , a property which seems to have its purpose in preserving them from the injurious effects of very low temperatures .
Mr. Hunter observed that a fresh egg will resist freezing longer than one which has been previously frozen and thawed ; and he referred this fact to the 'vital power ' of the egg in the first case , and the destruction of that power by freezing in the second .
The author 's experiments confirm those of Mr. Hunter , and prove , also , that when fresh eggs are exposed to very low temperatures , and also in the case of eggs which are decayed , or putrid , or the contents of which have been much altered by mechanical force or by electricity , a shorter time is sufficient for the freezing of such eggs , than is necessary for the freezing of those which are uninjured .
An examination of the rates at which heat was lost by the several eggs , exposed to temperatures varying from zero to 10 ?
Fahr. , showed that fresh eggs , though they resist freezing longer than any others , yet lose heat more quickly ; and that their resistance to freezing is due to the peculiar property of their albumen , the temiperature of which may be reduced to 16 ?
Fahr. , or much lower without freezing , although its proper freezing-point is at or just below 32 ? .
Other than fresh eggs lose heat comparatively slowly , but freeze as soon as their temperature is reduced to 32 ?
; fresh eggs lose heat more quickly , but may be reduced to 16 ?
or lower ; then , at the instant of beginning to freeze , their temperature rises to 32 ? .
That this peculiarity of fresh eggs is not due to vital properties , is proved by experiments which show that certain injuries , such as mechanical violence , addition of water , and others , which spoil their powers of resisting freezing , do not prevent eggs from being developed in incubation .
By the same and other experiments , which are .
related , it is made probable that the peculiarity depends on the mechanical properties of the albumien ; for , whatever makes the albumen more liquid than it is naturally in the fresh egg , destroys the power of resisting freezing .
The author could find no other substance possessing this property ; and in evidence of its adaptation to the purpose of preserving eggs from the loss of their capacity of developement , which they would suffer in being frozen , he relates experiments in which eggs were kept for a considerable time at temperatures ranging from zero to 10 ?
Fahr. , yet were afterwards developed in incubation .
By the same series of experiments it was shown , that , although freezing renders the effectual developement of the germ impossible , yet the intensest cold , if freezing does not take place , has no similar result .

