]\gt ; Mr. A. Mallock .
Instability of India-rubber IL ' Note on the Instability of ubber Tubes and when distended by Fluid Pressure By A. Communicated by LORD ] , Sec. R.S. March 16 , 1891 .
When an india-rubber tube is expanded by internal fluid it preserves its cylindrical form until the increase in bears a certain proportion to its diameter when unstrained ; but , more fluid is introduced , the condition of the tube becomes and the internal fluid pressure diminishes .
When more fluid , therefore , is introduced into a length than will suffice to expand it to its stable limit , it no longer cylindrical throughout its length , but assumes the form of a with one or more bous expansions ; and the diameter of which remains cylindrical , though greater , of course , than the strained diameter , is less than that attained at the stable limit fig. 1 .
In the case of an elastic hollow sphere , although the form is retained , whatever be the amount of fluid introduced , there a similar limit to the pressure which the elastic reaction of its can cause wibhin it .
If the thickness of the walls of the tube 0 sphere is small pared with the radius , and if , further , the material of which they composed be considered as incompressible , whiIe the other constants are invariable for such extensions as are involved tions which are approximately true for india-rubber ) , the value of radius when instability begins , may readily be found .
as the sides of any small the material of the and being ] to the tangent plane of the surface and normaI to it , let a stretching force act in the direction of causing become Since the material is incompressible , and , under influence of force , will become respectively l'ubes and Balloons distended by Fluid Pressure .
Now , maintaining this force , let another stretching force act in the direction of , which would , if acting alone , stretch to Then will become ; ; \ldquo ; The force to stretch to is and that required to stretch to is where is Young 's modulus for the material .
In the case of the cylinder , if be taken parallel to the axis of the cylinder and round its circumference\mdash ; unstrained length of cylinder ; , , circumference , , ; , , thickness , , ; hence the whole elastic ciroumferential stress is and the fluid pressure , , due to this stress is is a maximum when Mr. A. Mallock .
Instability of -rubber Since is also equal to strained area of base of cylinder , and by equating this to the former expression , we have for in terms of So that , when From this it will bs found that the critical value of the radius is and that then the length of the tube is nearly .
In the case of the sphere the maximum pressure will also be attained when , but , since by symmetry now , we shall have for the critical value of the radius , or nearly .
experiments were made with india-rubber pipes and balloons to see how nearly their behaviour conformed to the theory just given .
Fig. 2 shows the appal.atus employed .
The india-rubber to be experimented on was placed in a large closed vessel , , full of water .
Two pipes and passed through the stopper of ; of these with the interior of the expeximenhal tube or sphere , and immediately with the contents of B. A pressure gauge was connected with C. When tubes were being experimented on , the ends were closed with hard wood discs , covered with paraffin , through the upper one of which entered .
Fixed into the centre of the lower disc was a long straight wire , , which passed freely through , and the position of whose upper end , , could be read on the scale S. Water could be introduced into A by means of the pipe nected with C. When every part of the apparatus was filled with water , and the pressure gauge showed that the internal and extel.nal pressures on the india-rubber were equal , more water was admitted through C. The volume of water thus introduced was measured by the amonnt xpelled through D. The pressure gauge showed internal , and the descent of E\fnof ; m gave the elongation of the tube .
The analysis of results thus obtained is given by the I. The experiments on spheres were made in the same way , that the wire was not used .
Tubes and Balloons distended by Fluid Pressure .
results are given in Diagram II .
III gives the values of the function in Diagram I the abscissa is ( a ) shows the pressure the tube .
( b ) , , , , extension of represent the values of ( e ) is the theoletical pressure .
( f ) , , extension .
the unstable state is reached the formula for the extension does For this tube ( a ) shows the observed pressure , , , theoretical pressure , an india-rubber balloon for which ( c ) is the value of The rather uncertain nature of the measurements of both and these experiments makes the close apparent agreement between observed and theoretical resuIts somewhat illusory ; but it shows any rate that , if among the values obtained for and those are w.hich make theory and observation coincide for o1le of the remaining observations will also lie on the theoretical curve .
Presents , April 23 , 1891 .
Baltimore :Johns Hopkins University .
Circulars .
Vol. X. No. 86 . .
Baltirnore 1891 ; Studies from Biological Laboratory .
Vol. .
No. 1 .
ltimore 1 ; Studies in Historical and Political Science .
Ninth Series .
Nos. 3-4 . .
Baltimore 1891 .
The University .
:\mdash ; Royal Servian Academy .
Memoirs .
Nos. 2 , 5-7 .
Beograd 1890 ; Bulletin .
Nos. 18 , 21-23 , 27 .
1890 ; Annual .
1888 . .
Beograd 1889 .
the Servian language .
] The Academy .
Birmingbam :Free Libraries Committee .
Twenty-ninth Report .
1890 . .
Birmingham 1891 .
The Committee .
Cambridge :Cambridge Philosophical Society .
sections .
Vol. .
Cambridge 1891 ; Proceediugs .
Vol. .
Part 3 . .
Cambridge 1891 .
The Society .
Catania :Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali .
Atti .
Serie Vol. II . .
Catania 1890 ; Bullettino Mensile .
Fafic .
16-17 . .
Catania 1891 .
The Academy .

