]\gt ; On the Stability of the Earth .
By AYLEIGII , O.M. , Pres. Received March Read March evised The theory of elastic solids uSufdly proceeds upon the assumption that the body is initially in a state of ease , iree from stress and strain .
Displacements from this condition , due to given forccs , or vibl'ations about it , are then ated , and they are subject to the limitation that Hooke 's law shall be applicable hout and that the strain shall everywhere be small .
When we come to the case of the earth , supposed to be displaced from a of ease by the mutual ravitation of its parts , these limits are transgressed ; and several writers* have adopted this point of view cated the obstacles which inevitably present themselves .
In his interesting Professor Jeans , in order to attain mathematical definiteness , the length of forces counteract the ravitation : " " That is to say , we must artificially nnul gravitation in the equilibrium configuration , so that this equilibrium furation may be completely unstressed , and each element of matter be in its normal state How wide a departure from actuality is here implied will be understood if we reflect that under such forces the inte1ior of the earth would probably be mobile as water .
It appears to me that a satisfactory treatment of these problems must start from the condition of earth as actually stressed by its selfgravitation , and that the difficultics to be faced in following such a course may not reat as has been supposed .
The stress , which is so enormous as to transcend all ordinary experience , is of the nature of a purely hydrostatic pressure , and as to this surely there can be no se1ious .
After great compression the response to iurther stress is admittedly less at , but there is no reason to doubt that the reaction is purely elastic and that the material preserves its inCeglity .
At this point it moy ) to relnark , in , upon the confusion often met with in and the ilure to uish b a one-dimensional three-dimensional , or hydrostatic , pressul.e .
roc cast iron is said to be crnshed by such a pressure , it is the ' of , ' Phil. ] ] , .
, ' , p. 1 1903 .
it .
, t .
lbl .
On tional Sbility of the Earth .
former kind of pressure which is , or to be , meant .
There is no evidence of crushing under purely hydrostatic pressure , however great .
Not only is the intecovrity of a body unimpaired by hydrostatic pressure , but there is reason to think that the superaddition of such a pressure may preserve a body from rupture under stresses that vould otherwise be fatal .
FitzGerald raises this question in a of Hertz 's ' Miscellaneous Papers .
' He writes : " " Ill , the crackin .
of a material like glass , Hertz seems to thinlk its cracking will depend only on the tension ; that it will crack where the tension exceeds a certain limit .
He does not seem to consider whether it not crack by with hardly any tension .
It is doubtful whether a material in which there were sufficient eneral compression to prevent any tension at all , would crack .
seem capal ) of being bent about and distorted to almost any extent without , and this might very well be expected if they were at a sufficient depth under other rocks to prevent their parts being under .
It is an interesting question whether a piece of flass could be bent if it were strained at the bottom of a sufficiently deep ocean .
On the other hand , there seems very little doubt that the parts of a body might slide past one another under the action of a shear , and would certainly crack unless there were a sufficiently great compression } stress to prevent the crack ; and that consequently a body might crack , evetl the tensions were not by themselves sufficiently great to cause separation , and where the shear was greatest , and not where the tensions were gl.eatest.\ldquo ; When we reflect that pieces of lead may be made to unite under pressure when the surfaces are clean , and upon what is implied when insufficiently lubricated journals , or slabs of lass under polish , ' we may well doubt whether it is possible to rate a material at all when subjected to enormous hydrostatic pressure .
In the words of Dr. : " " The , conditions under which the deep-seated materials of the earth exist are fundamentally different from those we are familiar with at the surface .
The enormous pressure , and the presumably high tempeJature , very likely combine to produce a state to which the terms solid , viscous , liquid , as we understand them , are alike inapplicable A study of the mechanical operations of coining and of ( in recent years , I believe , much developed ) would probably throw upon this question .
We know that rod or tube may be " " squirted \ldquo ; from hot ( but solid ) lead .
Is the obstacle to a similar treatment of nrder material purely practical ?
In the laboratory I have experimented upon jellies of various 'Nature , ' November 5 , 1896 ; 'Scientilic Writings , ' p. 433 .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 43 , p. 173 , 1897 .
Lord [ Apr. 16 , of stiffness , on the ciple of the material to the appliances lathcr the appliances to the material .
In the simplest ement a leaden budlet is imbedded in jelly contained in a strong lass tube which bullet nearly fits .
the tube stand vertical for days , there is no descent .
But if by rous longitudinal innpacts ainst pad the inertia of ) bullet be tht into play , movenlenCs several inches may be obtained .
Here , although the deformations ctre very violent , there is no uptule visible , either before or behind the bullet .
When an elastic body is slightly displnced from the condition of ease , ) potential is expressed by terms involving the squares and products of the displacements .
If , however , we suppose finite to be constantly imposed , so that the initial condition is one of strain , the case is somewhat , not essentially , altered .
It may be convenient to make a statement , once for all , in terms of generalised co-ordinates .
If under the action of the forces , the co-ordinates assume the values , we have in of the potential of strain , etc. ( 1 ) If the forces permanently imposed be by the suffix ( 0 ) , they arc connected with the values of the co-ordinates , , etc. , ) the equations ' ' etc. ( 2 ) This strained condition is to be alded as initial , and displacements from it are denoted by to the -oldinates the altered values , etc. For the potential of strain we llavel , ( 3 ) which is of the ] order of small quantities is not now the whole potential .
In ddition to the of strain to include of the steadily osed forces , ted by the .
( 4 ) potential is thus ( 5 ) to The total potential , is uo 1906 .
] On the tational Sbility of the L'arth .
of the second order in , etc. , as is obviously required by the circumstance that the strained condition , etc. , is one of equilibrium under the proposed forces .
The coefficients of stability are ) , etc. , and they may differ finitely from the values which obtainel previously to the application of the forces , etc. As an example having an immediate bearing upon the natter in , let us consider the case of a uniform body originally in a state of ease .
If a small hydrost pressure upon it , the volume proportionally , and the ratio gives the } ility \ldquo ; of the body in this condition .
Under the action of a finite pressure the volume may be greatly altered , especially if the body be , seous , the new condition is still one of equilibrium and be regarded initial .
The compressibility now may be quite different from before , but it may be treated in the same way as depending upon the small of volume the imposition of a small pressure To those who , while the usual elastic theory bodies in a state of ease , repudiate the application to bodies subject to great hydrostatic pressure , I would that liquids and solids , as we know them , not really free from stress .
In virtue of cohesional forces , there is every reason to believe , the interior of a drop of water is under pressure not nificant even in comparison with those inside the earth , and ) same may be of a piece of steel .
The conclusion that I draw is that the usual equations may be plied to matter in a state of stress , provided that we allow for altered valnes of the elasticities .
In general , these elasticities will not only vary from point to point , but be aeolotropic in character .
If , veyer , we suppose that the body is naturally isotropic , and that the osed stress is everyw ere merely a hydrostatic pressure , so that by pure expansion a state of ease could be the case is much simpler and probably suffices for approximate view of the condition of the earth .
But ] the initial state is one free of shear , not to conclude that the fidity is the as it vould be without the imposed pressure .
On the contrary , there is much reason to that rigidity would be increased .
If thele is any analogy to be i11 pile of mutually repellant hard spheres , it will follow an infinite prehsure will infnlite rigidity as well as infinite ] ) ibility .
In the ( draft of paper I ) osed that it would be ] ) ssible upon ] ) lines find and for Jeanb ' analysis .
correspondence with P convinced that this hope is destined to disappoint1nent , * To whom I am for correctiona Lord of the ) loscs nlUC ] ] of the ] ' at first I felt it .
In Professor , if ) altered density is , radial } , the of a volumeibntion of ( ( ( a tioo of nsity - , the ents arc )jcct to , ( G ) two similar tion s to and are elastic constants of notation , and to initial condition .
tionb ( and by 's eqnation , ( 8 ) .
the constant of ation .
Thus , ( 9 ) which is Professor Jeans ' The tion of these equations is loped by Profess Jeans the view of determining at what point instability in .
Attcntion is mainly upon the solution of ( 9 ) explessc l a function of order that which bears upon the question of the evolution of the moon .
I intended to indicate a tlnent , follo more closely the notation method 's melnoi , " " On the of Elastic Sphere ; \ldquo ; but as the lesults so do not those of , it to set ncnt in fuller detail , to cilitate c ticihlD .
II ' in ( 9 ) we assume that is ) where : ( 11 ) ( solution of ( 10 ) , ) to of centre , is . .
, ( 1 , :th ) , 1 .
1 ' .
1 .
1906 .
] On the Stability of the Earth .
of order .
As is well known , is expressible in finite terms ; in the case of ( hr ) may be replaced in ( 12 ) by , a constant factor .
disregarded .
Before going further it may be well to consider the particular case of a flnid for which .
Here the solution for already given suffices to solve problem , and the condition of no pressure at surface ives at once , ( 13 ) which with ( 11 ) in terms an the elastic constant .
The critel.ion of stability follows by .
In the case of the displacements are symmetrical , beincro an .
; and we see that equilibrium is unstable for symmetrical ) if .
( 14 ) In general , by ( 8 ) and ( 10 ) so that ( 16 ) where satisfies hout the sphere .
( 17 ) Substituting the value of in ( 6 ) , we get with ro ( 11 ) ( 18 ) where .
( 19 ) Equation ( 18 ) and its companions may be treated as in Lamb 's classical paper .
A solution is ' ' etc. , ( 20 ) where tisfies ( .
In virtue of ( 17 ) these satisfy the relation : and the solution may be by the additi ) of , etc. , as well as the relation Professor Lalnb the general of ?
, For our present Lord Rayleigh .
[ Apr. 16 , purpose , with tion to one order of spherical , it suffices to take , ( 21 ) and two similar equations , where is a solid harmonic of : ; and is defined by the equation ve as to a constant multiplier is identical with , as employed in ( 12 ) .
is thus associated ith solid in place of monics .
The function possesses the following properties ; ; ( 24 ) .
A formula in spherical harmonics frequently required is ( 26 ) The term of the order in is thus .
and corresponding thercto do where is defined as above , , as well and , is a solid rlnonic of formation of tho conditions to be satisfied at the free csuli of the sphere proceeds most exactly as in Lamb 's investigation ( p. 199 ) , the only diflerence from the fact that has now valuc .
The first of the synlllet]icnl surface con ditions Tl tcrms in ( 29 ) ) fs of found to ] ) 1906 .
] On the Stability of the where ( ) ; ( 31 ) ( ) .
In manner Lamb finds for the terms in ( 29 ) arising from , ( 33 ) ; ( 34 ) We have now further an additional part from , which , it should be observed , makes no contribution to .
In this : so that the additional part is ( 36 ) The two most important cases where and ] also simple , in that ( 36 ) disappears .
It will be convenient to nsider first .
When vanish : , since is constant , ( 28 ) reduces to where is proportlonal to .
The motion is everywhere purely radial .
Exactly as in Lalnb 's investigation of yibl.ations without gravity , the expression ( 30 ) educes to where is a constant , so that the surface conditions yield , or from ( 32 ) .
( 38 ) for ha , and for and their values , get ( 39 ) Lord Rayleigh .
[ Apr. 16 , cept for tlifference of notation , this is the same as Lamb 's tion , and his results are therefore available .
They are expressed by nteajls of 's elastic constant they as dependent on the of .
To adapt them it is only necessary to Jcnlbcr t , as iven by ( 11 ) , herc different value from that which there is no gravitation .
On the other hand , finite , still be equated to is the time occupied wave of vibration in a space equal to netel .
of the sphere , and denotcs the of complete oscillation .
The smallest values of to selected values of , as given ) exnlnplc , if 's value , the rion of stability Tf , the lnaterial is ) , and motiol ] of the kincl now under plation is excluded .
When a diffcrent tson f The form of solution is lie the same if there were no tion .
from , , ( 40 ) : ( 41 ) from , ) ) common no conditions ) ) of that .
( 44 ) lt that nltst balne f that tertns in { his 11 , ll ( .ally ) to the 1906 .
] On the Dilatational bility of the Eartl , .
in which the values of to substituted from ( 40 ) , ( 41 ) , ( 42 ) , ( 43 ) .
We find ; ( 46 ) or if , in accordance ) , we replace , -cept for the different of , this agrees with Professor Lamb 's equation ( S7 ) .
In equation ( 46 ) there is no limitation upon the value of 1 If to find the criterion of we put or equal to zero , and equation reduces to .
( 48 ) The equation may also be written in of the Lessel functions .
The relation between and is ; so that in ternls of becomes ; ( 49 ) or , if introduce the circular functions , .
( 50 ) Unfortunately ( 49 ) does not with the result iyen by ProfeRbor Jeans .
In his notation , when ( from ) ( from ) and , give J. . .
of processes is rendered cult by the occulrence of several elrors ( lnisprinls ) in Professor.1 ) ) does not seen colrect , and ( 41 ) , ( 42 ) do follo from ( :38 ) , ( 39 ) .
Starting from ' equations just and of his , Lord [ Apr. 16 , ( 43 ) , ( 44 ) , ( 45 ) , ( 48 ) , ( 49 ) , I have ined a result in harmony equation ( 49 ) .
( 50 ) it is to calculate the value of corresponding to any tluc of .
When , of which the first root is an of .
ating for oles of find It seems that the value of is not very sensitive to variation of , and for alues of the ratio of as are to occur , especially under stlrc , almost content elves with the fluid solution .
The simplicity of the cases so far considered , depends upon our having } ) necessity of value of values of greater than unity this function remains in the equations , which now demand a more oorate treatment .
From ( 21 ) in which the second term becomes infinite whPn p O. In order to this , in ( 21 ) must be llade infinite of the order .
Thus writing , we have in the eory of differential equations with equal roots , we have ( solid lonic ( , the nlcnt 1906 .
] On the Stability of the Earth .
The boundary condition ( 29 ) requires a treatment .
The terms on remain as in ( 30 ) , ( 31 ) , .
From ) , ( 5 ) , we as appropriate for the present purpose Equations ( 33 ) , ( 36 ) now give , written as before for ) , which , when is made to vanish , is to be replaced by This is additional to ( 3U ) .
The equations to be satisfied at the surface are thus .
( 5S ) When ) disappears , and the final condition is found by the ratio irom , ( 58 ) .
This would conduct us to the results already arrived at for that case .
In general we anothel ' equation with and For this purpose we must recur to the definition ( 16 ) of of A calculation is made by Jeans on the basis of cssioh ( of means of BesseFs functions .
We have at the surface ( ha ) ( 59 ) In ordcl to expl.ess this in our present notation , see by comparison of ( 12 ) and ( 27 ) that .
, ( 60 ) so that with use of ( 24 ) .
( 61 ) In Professor Jeans ' equations ( 5 ) , ) ) the of is positive , but appears to be error .
Lord Rayleigh .
[ Apr. 16 , Eliminating between this and ( 54 ) , we find .
( 62 ) The substitution for in now giyes This equation and ( 58 ) determine two values of , and the elimination of ratio ives the required final result .
We will write ( 63 ) for evity as , ( 64 ) where by ( 31 ) , and reduction with the aid of , .
( 66 ) nilarly , if ( 58 ) be written , ( 67 ) we may take ; and the final result is , ( 70 ) iving the ratio in terms of and In results of calculation based upo11 the assumption of a uniform ibility to the case of the earth where the val'iatiou is likely to be very considerable , we must regard to the character of the function ( 12 ) which the dilatation is pressed .
Vhen / or a eater nlmber , ( 12 ) vanishes at the centre and ( when ) at the surface .
The values to be to the elasticities are thosc to an intermediate position , -way the centre and the sul.face .
For a more complete we calculate the balance of the elastic and gravitational potentinl ) the of a displacement still .
the same law 1906 .
] On the Dilatational Stability of the Earth .
as has been found to apply to a uniform sphere .
In accordance with a general principle the result , so calculated , will be correct as far as the first powers of the variations from uniformity .
Another question , interesting to geologists , upon which our results have a bearing is as to the effect of denudation in altering the surface level .
The immediate effect of the removal of material is .
of course , to lower the level , but if the material removed is heavy and the substratum very compressible , the up of the foundation may more than neutralize the first effect and leave the new surface than the old one .
So far as I am aware discussions have been based upon the elastic quality merely of the i1lterior without to self-gravitation ; but , as is easy to see , if the condition be one approaching instability , the effect of a pressure applied to the surface be immensely increased .
VOL. LXXyII.\mdash ; A.

