" On Terrestrial Magnetism .
" By William A. Norton , A.M. , M.A.P.S. , Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy in Delaware College , United States of America .
Communicated by Lieut. Colonel Edward Sabine , R.A. , For .
Sec. R.S. The object of the author in the present memoir is to show that , by adopting certain fundanmental conceptions with respect to the terrestrial magnetic forces , the magnetic may be deduced from the thermal elements of the earth .
The following are the propcsitions which he considers he has established by his inquiries .
1 .
All the magnetic elements of any place on the earth may be deduced from the thermal elements of that place ; and all the great features of the distribution of the earth 's magnetism may be tleoretically derived from certain prominent features in the distribution of its heat .
2 .
Of the magnetic elements , the horizontal intensity is nearly proportional to the mean temperature , as measured by Fahrenheit 's thermometer ; the vertical intensity is nearly proportional to the difference between the mean temperatures , at two points situated at equal distances north and south of the place , in a direction perpendicular to the isothermal line ; and , in general , the direction of the needle is nearly at right angles to the isothermal line , while the pre .
cise courses of the inflected line , to which it is perpendicular , may be deduced from Sir David Brewster 's formula for the temperature , by differentiating and putting the differential equal to zero .
3 .
As a consequence , the laws of the terrestrial distribution of the physical principles of magnetism and heat must be nearly the same ; and these principles themselves must have towards one another the most intimate physical relations .
4 .
The principle of terrestrial magnetism , in as far as the phenomena of the magnetic needle are concerned , must be confined to the earth 's surface , or to a comparatively thin stratum of the mass of the earth .
5 .
The mathematical theory of terrestrial magnetism which has been under discussion must be true in all its essential features .
6 .
We may derive the magnetic elements by very simple formula , and with an accuracy equal to that of Gauss 's formule , from a very

