]\gt ; .
1841\mdash ; 1903 .
Andrcw Ainslie Common ) stle on Angust 7 , 1841 .
He showed interest stronomy very , for his brothcr , writing of a time previous to 1851 , remembers that ' ' hc at the telescope\ldquo ; ( an instrnment which his mother had borrowed from Dr. Bates , of hIorpeth ) . .
" " lVhenever I missed him I ran into the house and found him at the telescope Owing to ill-health first , and vftrds to the necessity for taking up business , his astrollomical enthusiasm lay dormant for some years after this , ) in 1874 he had a inch refractor mounted equatorially in a dome in London .
Afterards he moved to Ealing , where he lived till his death ; he set up larger instruments , joined the Royal Astronomical Society in 1876 , and from about that time , in spite of the claims of active business life , continued to work successfully his favourite science , to be a prominent figure in astronomicnl circles .
The earliest work of which there is any published record was on the satellites of Saturn and Mars .
Not .
R.A.S. , \ldquo ; vol. 38 , p. 97 ) , and characteristically an improved method of getting position-angles .
Common was seldom content until he had suggested some essential improvement on previous methods .
There is a hint , too , of dissatisfaction with the power of his instrument ( an 18-in ch speculum , by Calver , which would have satisfied most of the amatenrs of the day ) , since the inner satellite of bIars could not seen ; and in this we may trace the determination , already formed , to have the larger instruments which made Common famous .
Little more than a year he published his ideas on the snbject of large telescopes , it is noteworthy that his opinion courageonsly at variance wioh of one of the first instrumont makers of the day Mon .
Not .
R.A.S. , \ldquo ; vol. 39 , p. 383 , footnote ) .
He proceeded to order the -known 3-foot mirror from .
Calver , the monnting being his own design , and this instrument was a great snccess .
He could now see all the satellites of lIars and Saturn easily , and corrected an error of about ons and a-haIf hours in tlJe ephemeris of Mimas , which had remained lmdetected for some time , and had been the cause of some curious records by other observers .
an even greater success was in store ; he turned his attention to photography , and took the first successful photograph of a nebnla\mdash ; the great nebula in Orion .
Fox this he received the gold medal of the loyal Astronomical Society in 1884 .
In presenting to the Society a carbon enlargement of this picture ( taken on January 30 , 1883 , with 37 minutes ' exposure ) , he modestly remarked of it that " " although some of the finer details are lost in the enlargement , sufficient remains to show that are approaching a time when photography will give us the means of recording , in its own inimitable way , the shape of a the relative ) rightness of the different parts in a better than the most careful hand-drawings.\ldquo ; He might well have said that the time was already come , for the chief steps had certainly been taken , and we may note with admiration that they had been taken by a man who had only been ) to devote himself to astronomy seriously during the leisure of some half-dozen years .
In that brief period Common had realised the limitations of an 18-inoh telescope , which may be taken to represcnt the best instrument available at tho time for a man of moderate means ; had determined on the bold experiment of doubling the diameter , and carried out the project successfully ; and had assigned to the reflector that work of photographing the nebulae which has come to be regarded as its chief function .
All this was not done without much hard work , and it is not surprising if the pace was not maintained afterwards .
An pportunity occurred for selling the 3-foot telescope , Common then deliberately took a complete year 's rest before commencing another astronomical enter- prise ; though during this period the project of making a much larger telescope still ( mirror 5 feet in diameter ) was already in his mind , and plans were maturing .
He had indeed , so early as 1880 , determined to have this telescope , and make it entirely himself , and had ordered a disc of glass for the purpose , but the instrument was not completed till 1891 .
A full account of its construction is given in " " Mem. R.A.S. , \ldquo ; vol. 50 , and he was able to announce that " " the power of the 6-foot over that of the 18-inoh and 3-foot is proportionate to the size .
On nebulae this is seen to great advantage , both visually and photo- graphically .
Such an object as Mimas , which the 18-inch telescope would , under the most favourable conditions , just render visible , and the 3-foot show fairly well , can with the 5-foot be seen close to the end of the ring , and away from it could not be overlooked But this satisfactory result was not attained without encountering many difficnlties .
Of one grinding tool that he tried he reports:\mdash ; " " The tool was several months in preparation , but a very few minutes ' work sufficed to show that it was unworkable .
The faces of the glass squares caught the mirror and tore it up in places , but where this had not occurred the surface produced by grinding glass on glass was all could be desired Such failures might have discouraged a less resolute man , but Common simply utilised them as lessons of great value , and seemed actually to rejoice in them .
' I consider it an extremely fortunate circumstance he writes , ' that the first mirror gave such a very bad image that it had to ) oondemned , and nother disc of glass made .
Had it been just tbly good , it is more than probable that I should not have made another , but should have come to the conclusion that the limit of size had been reached He is here speaking of the loss of two years ' work , during hich more than two million strokes had been made with the grinding tools , and , as he admits in another chapter .
" " the greater part of the period a time of worry and anxiety But when he roalised that it was labour lost and he must begin afresh , he merely dwells with satisction on the net result\mdash ; that from the experience gained he was nble " " to make the second disc into an almost perfect mirror in three lths fortunately the telescope , though completed , has not been much .
Some excellent photographs of ) ulae were taken with it , and only withheld from publication becane Common felt he could improve upon them .
But while using it one night he narrowly escaped falling from the high staging necessary to work a Newtonian reflector\mdash ; such a fall would certainly have been fatal\mdash ; and he resolved that he must not run a similar risk again .
Consequently he decided that the telescope must ) -arranged on the Cassegrain plan , so that the observer might work in safety from the floor , and some years were spent in experiments on the best method of doing this .
actual design involves a central hole in the large mirror , and there were known difficulties in the way .
At first an attempt was made to tdter the plan to an " " oblique Cassegrain leaving the mirror intnct ; and promising results were obtained , which , however , never got beyond a certain limit .
Accordingly the known difficulties of making a central hole were attacked and conquered , and a successful mirror produced , so that the telescope is complete either as a ssegrain or a Newtonian .
About this time , however , Common 's attention was diverted to problems concerning gun-sights and telescopes for the , and this was work which ally suited and attracted him .
All ) tions with the 5-foot came to a standstill , and he realised that he mikely to resume them .
An additional disconragement arose from the deterioration in the atmospheric conditions , which proceeds inexorably in the neighbourhood of London .
Comntoll felt that to do the instrument justice it ought to be transported to a good olimate , and though plans for doing this were often vaguely in his mind , he never crystallized them .
His dden death leaves in garden , nnused , what is prol ) ) the finest tclescopc in the world .
In the ordinary coursc of siness Common acquired considel'able engineering knowledge , which helped him uaterially in the of construction of his instruments .
Many of his scientifio papers snggestions of great value for the improvement of instruments .
Thus he pointed out that when laking photograph with a large escops any small defects of clock-driving should be corrected , not by moving the whole telescope , which will introduce strains and set up oscillations , but by moving the plate alone .
He suggested that the heavy parts of big instruments should bo floated , and carried ont the idea beantifully in the case of his 5-foot .
There is a paper of his Moli .
Not .
R.A.S. , \ldquo ; vol. 44 , p. on ' Im- provements in the constrnction of large transit oircles which has :ttracted little ttelltion , but which contains several suggestions of vious v and importance .
Ho thoroughly appreciative of the vork of others , especially when it lay fields familiar to him .
Lord Rosse 's work on tho nebulae was constantly referred to by Common in terms of warm admiration ; when he presented his successful photograph of the Orion nebula to the Royal Astronomical Society , as above mentioned , he took the mity of referring to Lord Rosse with enthusiasm .
Foucault , who developed the plan for testing mirrors , was another of Common 's heroes .
And his was no mere idle appreciation\mdash ; he carried it to a practical issue by carefully studying what others had done before he commenced his own operations .
" " plan of work was sketched out he writes in the introduction his account of the making of the 5-foot , " " in which an endeavour was made to adopt , as far as circumstances permitted , all the essential things that had been pointed out by previous vorkers At the same time , he was too courageous to be fettered by the opinion or practice of his predecessors , however impressively unanimous .
' very wellknown worker hitherto , without exception , has begum by making small mirrors , and , as experience and skill were gained , has increased the sizc of the discs The weight of testimony was treated by Common with respect , but ultimately disregarded when there seemed to be good for a more enterprising course .
The cquired in the difficult art of grinding nnrrors was used for the general good with unstinting generosity .
Common made a large number of mirrors at different times , which were presented to colleagues , or put at their disposal for the minimum cost .
He made not only concave but plane reflectors , such as those required for coelostats used on British eclipse expeditions .
Indeed , his help with these instruments at a critical time was undoubtedly the means of introducing them to the attention of astronomers , who have since learnt more of their great value .
Two concave mirrors of 20 inches aperture and 45 inches focus , made for eclipse work and used in 1889 , are also well worthy of special mention .
Andrew Ainslie He much terested in cclipse took il the allisation of the different ittecs w merged in the present Joint nent Eclipse Committee .
He himself went on the expedition to in 1896 , very complete of operations for the party he took with him , but clouds ented them obtain ing any results .
As observer , he was quick to seize the suggestious of The discovery of comet the total eclipse of , 188 suggested to him to search the neighbourhood of the sull for right comets , which he did for some time assiduously , and he rev arded on September 17 of the same year by the independent discovery of the comet of 1882 ( see , vol. 5 , p. 319 , and , p. 159 .
He thus the first to see it in Europe , lthongh the comet had been previously noticed from the Southern Hemisphere .
He took a prominent part in the Conferences which organized the Astrographic Chal t , and lthough hc hiluself how much could be done )vithreflecting telescopes , hs tially advised the doption of the the } ) erinstrunlont in this case , recogiig the of the snlts obtained ) the Brothers .
He lcnew not only the merits the imperfections of the reflector ; it had garies which not every nlall h the patience to learn , and it could not be recommended for discriminate 1 He used to quote with pproval the unplo of , who brokc ) his big reflector there t let it into tivo h. But pe1lceu ] skill on the of the observer , such possessed , the its competitor , Common 's must ) added to ions list of English Herschel , , De } the demonstrittio of this directly , too , he somo in ) the instrmuent across the Atlantic , where it luises to th.ivo even prosperously in the old A ords n addcrl the gnn-sights , which ntio in the of his life .
Although in some of , il scientific skill of a high order , and of of his devices exhibited and admired at the saziones of this Society in 1903 ( at the first of them he was himself present , but death had before the second ; but he felt that there was still much to be done , and looked forward with conlidence to doing it .
As regards national importance the following words of CaptaiJl Scott , R.N. , ) the ) 1902 , may on record here .
Hc , " " that the tion o deep debt of ( titude to Dr. Common fur the ) in gun-sights .
It not the Noiices of Fellows deceased .
man there was behind it ; unless the sight was perfect , good firing could llot be made .
The great stride made by the British Navy lately in that direction was entirely due to Dr. Common .
He had combined the great knowledge of optics , which had made him a Fellow of the oyal Society , with practical application , and produced a telescope gunsight which would , when used , quadruple the fighting efficiency of our attleships.\ldquo ; Common was elected Fellow of this Society in 1885 , and served on its Council in the years 1893-5 .
He was Treasurer of the Astronomical Society from 1884 to 1895 , when he was made President .
He received the Honorary degree of .D .
from the University of St. Andrews in 1892 .
He died very suddenly o11 the liug of , 1903 , from ilure , while sitting writing his study at 63 , Eaton Rise , Ealing .
Hc leaves , one soll , three ughters .
H. H. T. ' OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
( PART ) THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY , K.G. 1830\mdash ; 1903 .
ROBERT ARTHUR TALBOT GASCOYNE-CECIL , the third Marquess of Salisbury , was born on February 3 , 1830 .
He succeeded to the title in 1868 , and died on August 22 , 1903 .
Lord Salisbury was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1869 he served on the Council in 1869-1870 , again in 1882-1883 , and for a third time in 1892-1894 ; he was a Vice-President in 1882-1883 and in 1893-1894 .
By his death the Royal Society has lost a Fellow who combined genuine scientific instinct and interests with a unique position as a statesman whose advice and co-operation have therefore on many , been of the greatest value .
Lord Salisbury was generally known to take great interest in physical science , and he spent much of his spare time in experiments .
He experienced some of the vicissitudes incident to chsmical experimenters , having once been nearly suffocated by inhaling chlorine , on another occasion having had a bad explosion with sodium .
His fondness for botany placed him , on one excursion , in a novel situation ; while searching for plants on a neighbouring estate , the keeper mistook him for a poacher .
Although he published very little , he took carefuI notes of his work .
These records have not been found , with the exception of three small note-books , containing disjointed entries from which only an imperfect idea of the work can be obtained .
Though he often talked in private about scientific subjects , his well-known dislike of egotism prevented him from referring to his own performances .
He seems to have been much attracted by photography at an early period .
In 1864 he wrote an article on that subject for the " " Review which was published in the October number , pp. Obituary Notices of deceased .
This appeared as a review of ' A Manual of Photographic Chemistry , ' by T. Hardwick , and of a book on ' The Tannin Process , ' by C. Russell .
It is written in his characteristic style , and gives a good account of the condition of photography at that period , when dry plates were first suggested and discussions were proceeding between artists and photograpbers .
In one of the note-books above mentioned is a list of photographic and chemical apparatus dated December , 1865 .
About 1869 he was experimenting with magnetism , and had a large electro-magnet constructed with the intention of investigating the rotation of the plame of polarisation of light in the magnetic field .
Later he experimented on the determination of the law of variation of magnetic action with distance , by measuring the throw of a galvanometer needle due to the current induced in a coil with a soft iron core , when it was placed at different distances from another similar coil through lvhich an electric current was passed .
In 1872 Lord noticed the illumination in the vacuum in the tube of a thermometer placed near an induction coil in action .
The following extract relating to similar phenomena , copied , by permission , from a note-book belonging to the latter part of the year 1872 , from which the first pages are missing , will convey a good idea of his mode of working , whilst it is also of intrinsic scientific interest .
" " Connect one pole of a strong induction coil with the outside of a iarge thoroughly insulated jar .
Take the cap off the jar ; inside of it hang a Geissler tube three inches from the bottom .
Let it be hung by a wire connected to earth ; the other pole may be connected to earth or not connected at all .
If the positive current is taken to the jar no apparent discharge , silent or other , will pass from jar to tube ; but the tube will lighten .
If the negative be taken to jar , a brush will appear at the end of the tube .
Break contact .
Take out the tube , carefully avoiding to touch the inside of the jar .
Then , holding tube , pass it with a quick motion up and down through the mouth of the jar , but never touching ; at each passage up and down the tube lighten .
This may be done for an indefinite number of times , and the light in the tube will strengthen rather than fall off .
The tube may be laid aside for half-an-hour , and at the end it will still lighten ; but the effect is slighter .
For this experiment tube and jar must be dry , the insulation of the jar must be very good , and the discharge must be strong .
" " This action bears a strong analogy to the action of a closed circuit moved in front of a magnet .
The tube is practically a closed circuit , for except in air artificially dried all circuits are so to intense electricity .
It is vorthy of note no light is seen unless the tube is taken completely out of the jar at each other stroke .
The Marquess of SalisburlJ " " If instead of the jar a sheet of copper , insulated between two india rubber pads , be used , the sitme effect may be produced in a slighter degree .
Also , if instead of an india rubber pad , a long coil of insulated wire , in a flat case , be laid on the copper , after contact broken , if the tube be passed sharply across the coil lengthways\mdash ; not touching , but very close\mdash ; light will be produced at each stroke fcr a little time .
The difference in effect probably results from the fact that a jar is a form capable of more insulation than any other .
" " If the poles of a st1ong coil be one connected to earth through a jar\mdash ; or with considerable mterval\mdash ; the other not at all\mdash ; the whole surrounding space near the jar and the coil , or anything in connection with either , will be in a state of excitement .
The tube , if held any way in the air will show it , but most if held normally .
A thermometer will show it , giving a mercury light .
The thermomster will show it , even if enclosed in an upright tall narrow jar ( dry ) .
If a coil so arranged is in action , and an india rubber disc be laid on the table not far from the jar , and a tube be laid upon it , the aotion can be regulated that the tube will be just short of lightening .
Put the finger near it in any direction , and the part of the tube nearest the finger will lighten .
If a thermometer , standing as above described , be grasped by the finger and thumb , the part grasped have a thicker and stronger light than the rest of the tube .
" " Hang the tube over a plats of copper in connection with one pole ; the other pole to earth ; tube to earth .
Approach the tube ( using negative to plats ) till there is a brush discharge from tube , occasional sparks .
Let tube be a hydrogen tube .
Examins the light in its strongest part by spectroscope .
As long as the brush discharge is going on it is a mercury light !
; but when the spark comes , and shoot across the spectrum In further experiments a bell-jar was placed on the plate of an air pump and over it was inverted a Leyden jar from which the interior connecting rod had been removed , and the outside of the jar and the air pump plate were connected to the coil ; a brilliant discharge was found to be produced in the bell-jar when the coil was in action .
When the coil was stopped , and the wire attaohed to the Leyden jar was removed , occasional glimmers were seen in the bell-jar , which lasted for some time and were renewed on touching the jar with the finger .
This sxperiment was modified by chargin a Leyden jar by an electric machine , removing the interior connecting rod and inverting the jar over a small bell jar on the air pump plate , the edge of the jar resting on the plate .
A flickering discharge , which called ' ' summer htning was seen , and lasted for some time , and renewed on touching the outside of the jar , from which a small spark was drawn .
An exhausted and sealed tube , without electrodes , 322 Notices of deceased .
became luminous on plunging it into a charged jar , and also on drawing it .
In the same note-book from which quotations have been made above there are recorded detailed observations on the spectra shown in thermometer tubes , made at various dates up to February 25 , 1873 .
These latter formed the subject of a short paper in the " " PhilosophicaI Magazine\ldquo ; for April , 1873 ( 4th series , vol. 45 , pp. 241-245 ) , entitled ' On Spectral Lines of Low Temperature , ' which passes from observa- tion to theory .
It would appear that in writing this paper Lord Salisbury had regarded the phenomena described as more dependent on conduction than , in the light of modern experience of electric oscillations , we could now admit ; while the changes in the spectra are discussed on ths supposition that they are controlled by the temperature of the residual gas .
The absencs of the hydrogen spectrum he believed to be due to the low tempsrature of the discharge .
He set about determining this temperature .
Experimsnts with a vacuum tube without electrodes , and having the bulb of a small air thermometer sealed into it , gave some indication of increased temperature when the discharge passed through the tube .
In consequence of a brush discharge being observed at the top of the thermometer , it was apparently thought that the illumination of the thermometer was accompanied by conduction through the glass .
An experiment was made subsequently in which an exhausted tube , five feet long , and without electrodes , but with the ends covered with tin foil , was placed with ons end in contact with the prime conductor of an electrical machine .
On working the machins the tubs was illuminated until the charge became constant , and on discharging the conductor a flash was again seen in the tube .
With a Holtz machine , having the electrodes near together , so that frequent discharges occurred , the tube was brilliantly Iuminous when ons end was placed in contact with one of the electrodes , the other end of the tube being insulated .
If a brass ball connected with earth was placed near the tin foil covering of the distant end of the tube , sparks passed at each dischargs of the Holtz machins .
This tube , made in July , 1874 , is an early exampls of the electrostatical variety of electrodeless vacuum tubes .
From letters by Mr. J. T. Bottomley in " " Nature vol. 23 , 1881 , pp. 218 and 243 , it appears that Sir W. Thomson and he had ntly observed the same phenomena .
Keyser , " " Handbuch der Spectroscopie vol. , S204 , mention these of Lord Salisbury as the first in point of time in which the conolusion .
was drav that a gas at low temperature emit a bright spectrum .
The Marquess of When using thermometers in the above experiments , they were found to be very frequently pierced by the discharge at the sealed point .
rfhis appeared to be due to the pointed form of the interior space .
A piece of glass tube was heated in the blowpipe and drawn out , forming two closed tubes ; the closed ends were then fused together and slightly drawn out so that they were connected by a rod of glass , the interior spaces of the tubes being pointed .
When the electrodes of the coil were inserted into the open ends of the tubes , and the coil set in action , the intervening glass was pierced in less than three minutes .
A vacuum tube , with one end drawn out to a fine point and sealed , was instantly pierced when the pointed end was rested on the metallic plate connected to one pole of the induction coil .
Lord Salisbury observed that india rubber when exposed to light undergoes a change , and a casual remark of his led to the experiments described in a letter to " " Nature vol. 27 , 1883 , p. 312 .
Arc lamps worked by primary batteries were used at Hatfield as early as the winter of 1869-1870 to illuminate the south front of ths hotlse on the occasion of the County Ball , and from 1879 to 1881 experiments were made on the lighting of the interior of the house by electricity .
At first the dynamos were placed in or near the house and worked by a steam or gas engine .
Afterwards the machines were placed at the saw mills at a distance of more than a mile from the house , where they were actuated by a water-wheel on the River Lea , which runs through the park ; subsequently a turbine was used .
Hatfield House was one of the first large houses in the country to be lighted by electricity .
Electric motors were afterwards used in some farmin operations , especially for cutting weeds in the river .
In 1881 and 1882 numerous experiments were made to obtain two pieces of the same metal that would not produce an electric current , when they were dipped in water and connected through a galvanometer .
The experiments were first made with two sovereigns with pieces of wet paper between them ; on connectin the coins to a galvanometer a current was always detected .
Platinum wires and rods were next tried , and notwithstanding their being cut from the same piece of metal and being cleansed by action of many different substances and by heating , it was not found possible to obtain them in identical states .
Two wires were heated by an electric current in an exhausted tube , to a side tube containing dilute sulphuric acid was sealed , with the expectation of removing occluded gases ; but a powerful current was produced when the tube was inverted so as to connect the wirss by the diluts acid .
Very little regularity was observed in the direction of these currents ; but at last it was found that if a wire were left for some time in a solution of a permanganate , washed Obituary Notices of deceased .
with water and dried with filter paper , and then plunged into a test tube of water in which another platinum wire was immersed , a current was produced ; while if the wire wers removed , left for some time in a solution of pyrogallic acid , washed and dried as before , it produced a current in the opposite direction when again introduced into the test tube .
A platinum rod was suspended for a short time in the mouth of an ammonia bottle without touching the neck , washed in a bowl of water and wiped with filter paper , and it then produced a current in one direction when placed in a vessel of water in which a similar rod was lying ; if the rod was exposed to the fumes of nitric acid and treated in a similar manner , an opposite current resulted .
When wires immersed in dilute acid exactly compensated each other , disturbance of one of them , of the nature of bending or stretching , caused an immediate indication of current in the galvanometer .
In 1883 experiments were made with the flame produced between the secondary terminals of a coil when the primary was in circuit with a Siemens alternating dynamo .
The spectrum of the flame was examined , and also the spectra produced when salts of metals were introduced into it .
These experiments were subsequent to those of Mr. Spottiswoode .
When Lord Salisbury was Secretary of State for India he forwarded a despatch to the Governor-General , dated September 28 , 1877 , enclosing a memorandum from Mr. Lockyer recommending the establishment of a station in orthern India for taking daily photographs of the sun .
Lord Salisbury warmly supported the recommendation , and , in consequence of his action , photographs of the sun 's disc have been taken daily , with few intervals , up to the present time .
The correspondence on this subject will be found in the Reports of the Committee on Solar Physics .
Lord Salisbury showed his personal interest in the subject by paying frequent visits to Mr. Lockyer 's laboratory while the work on the spectrum of hydrogen was in progress .
In 1894 Lord Salisbury presided over the meeting of the British Association at Oxford .
In his opening address , which attracted much attention at home and abroad from its wide range of knowledge , and is still vividly remembered , he insisted that we are in a condition of uncertainty in many fundamental problems of science , and that many of our general conceptions necessarily remain incomplete and tentative .
The foregoing is , in the words of one who knew him intimately , " " record of work done in the spare moments of a man whose thoughts as well as his were claimed by very much besides .
Slight as it is , there is enough to suggest that if the power of continuous concentrated thought , which was peculiarly his characteristic , had been devoted Alfred Ridwrd Cecil Selwyn .
to science , he might have achieved something considerable .
He was an in nothing\mdash ; in the sense , that is , of giving half his thoughts to it .
Whatever he worked at absorbed him entirely for the time , and that was doubtless the reason why during the last eighteen years of his life public aflairs left no room for scientific activity H. ALFRED RICHARD CECIL SELWYN .
1824\mdash ; 1902 .
The subject of this notice had a unique experience of official scientific life , having served , with a practically continuous career of about half-acentury , on three Geological Surveys , and having been at the head of two of them .
Beginning at home , his surveylife was shifted eastward and westward to distant colonies , as shown below:\mdash ; Geological Survey of England and Vales , 1845 to 1852 , about 7 years .
Survey of Victoria ( Director ) , 1852 to 1869 , about 17 years .
Geological Survey of Canada ( Director ) , 1869 to 1894 , about 25 years .
He was the son of the Rev. Canon Townsend SeIwyn , and his wife , Charlotte Sophia , daughter of Lord George Iurray , Bishop of St. David 's .
He was born July 28 , 1824 , at Kilmington , setshire .
He married , in 1852 , Iatilda Charlotte , daughter of the Rev. Edward Selwyn .
On all sides , therefore , he was connected with the church , of which another member of his family , Bishop Selwyn , was a conspicuous officer .
Nevertheless , he did not have a University education ; but was at first brought up at home and afterwards in Switzsrland , in which country he got his first taste for geology .
Selwyn joined the English Geological Survey at the age of 21 , under Sir H. De la Beche , and had the good fortune to have Ramsay as his teacher in geologic mapping in North Wales .
His ability for this work was soon shown , and for some years he took a prominent part in the difficuIt task of mapping the Palaeozoic rocks of that district and its borderland , a task in which his powers as a climber greatly aided him : indeed for this reason much of the toughest work , from an athletic point of view , fell to his share .
Amongst other things , he mapped the complicated volcanic district of Cader Idris , and was the first to discover an unconformity between Obituary Notices of Fdlows the lowest Cambrian rocks and the older schists beneath , a view however which , in those early days , was not accepted by his colleagues , excepting , perhaps , De la Beche .
He also did some survey-work on less ancient formations in Shropshire .
He had a share in no less than sixteen of the Geological Survey Maps , some of which are of a very detailed character , and , indeed , are monuments of early also in six sheets of Sections , across difficult country .
Sir A. Ramsay did not fail to acknowledge the excellence of Selwyn 's work , and with another genial member of the staff , J. B. Jukes , a great friendship was also formsd .
Passing to the colonial work , in which the greater part of ] was spent , on getting to Victoria , Selwyn soon undertook the investigation of gold-bearing rocks and gravels , and prepared various reports and papers on the economic geology of the colony .
Unfortunately , however , this valuable work came to an end in 1869 , when the legislature , with short-sighted economy , refused to grant the funds that were needful for the continued progress of the Survey .
But Selwyn 's services were secured by another colony , which has had the honour of keeping up a highly efficient Geological Survey for many years , a survey which has enriched geologic knowledge and advanced its practical applications in a marked degree , very largely through Selwyn 's able guidance .
It is indeed in connection with the Geological Survey of Canada that Selwyn will be best remembered , as he spent a quarter of a century of his official life as its Direotor , an appointment made on the recommendation of the retiring chief , Sir W. Logan , whose earlier work was done in South Wales , as Selwyn 's was in North Wales .
Selwyn began his duties in Canada at a time when the confederation of some of the provinces of that great colony had but just been carried out .
In consequence of that confederation , the area of Canada , and therefore che sphere of the Geological Survey work , considerably increased .
Here , as in Victoria , he strove to advance geology from the practical and economic side , as well as from what is termed the purely scientific side , making many investigations and explorations that wers of great practical value .
Indeed Selwyn may be instanced as one of those broad-viewed geologists who realised that a Government Survey is not established simply for the exploitation of difficult scientific problems soms of which may be beyond the reach of most of those observers who take up geology as a highly enjoyable pursuit ) , but also for the careful recording of facts and for bringing those facts to bear on questions of public utility .
He tried to make the Canadian Geological Alfred Richard Cecil Selwyn .
327 Survey a store-house of information on the various subjects on which geology bears .
He was the first to make out the geologic structure of the eruptive districts of Eastern Canada .
Nor was his Canadian work limited to the Geological Survey .
He was Assistant to the Canadian Commissioners for three great Exhibitions , namely , the Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition of 1876 , the Paris Universal Exhibition of 1878 , and the Colonial and Indian Exhibition of 1886 , in London .
These posts involved the making of descriptive cataIogues of Canadian minerals , rocks , \amp ; c. Selwyn was one of the original members of the Royal Society of Canada , and he held the office of its President in 1895 , 6 .
He took an active part in the meeting of the British Association at Montreal in 1884 , and the geologists who attended that meeting will remember his kindness during the excursions round Ottawa , and ( after the meeting ) long the Canadian Pacific Railway , during the Iatter of which he had a narrow escape from a mass of rock which fell across a wooden tresslebridge as some of the party were crossing it : indeed , had it not been for his quickness in seeing the danger , there might have been damage to life or limb .
Curiously enough , the writer of this notice ( with an Engineer who was also smitten by the desire of walking as far down the Pacific slope as time would allow ) , had passed the spot some time before .
Both had been struck with sigIlS of instability , and both had come to the conclusion ( as geologist and as engineer ) , that something ought to happen there some .
On their return found that it had happened , short length of railway along which they had gone having been destroyed , luckily without damage to anyone .
Selwyn died at Vancouver , October 19 , 1902 .
By nature and by upbringing , Selwyn was a stratigraphical geologist , and he had a strong liking for districts of complex structure .
The picking of geologic threads out of a tangled skein the kind of work that pleased him .
He was a scholarly man , who gave much time to the preparation of reports and papers , and who expected those under him to follow his example of neatness .
Moreove.r , he was a disciplinarian , a quality sometimes wanting in scientific chiefs .
Tall in , quick in action , of nervous temperament , he was a good specimen of the English geologist of the early days of the Geological Survey , worthy to rank with De la Beche , Ramsay , Forbes and Jukes , and no higher praise than this would he have wished for .
Selwyn was elected F.G.S. in 1871 , and F.R.S. in 1874 .
He received the Murchison Medal from the Geological Society in 1876 , and in accepting it , on his behalf , his old friend Ramsay well said 328 Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
that there was " " an appropriateness in the award . . .
to one who has done such excellent work among Silurian rocks in three regions of the world He also received the Clarke Gold Medal from the Royal Society of New South Wales in 1884 .
In 1886 he was made C.M.G. In addition to these honours , his name is perpetuated in Canada topographically , in connection with River , Lake , and Inlet .
There are many references to Selwyn in the " " Letters . .
of J. Beete Jukes by his sister ( Mrs. Browne ) , published in 1871 , and in the " " Memoir of Sir Andrew Crombie Ramsay by Sir A. Geikie , published in 1895 .
These two works indeed give a history of the early days of the Geological Survey .
For details of Selwyn 's work , the reader is also referred to the following papers , the first of which published during his life : 1899 .
Eminent Living Geologists : Alfred Richard Cecil Selwyn .
By Dr. H. Woodward .
Geol .
Mag. , dec. , vol. , pp. 49-55 .
1903 .
Alfred Charles Selwyn .
By H. M. Ami and Dr. H. Woodward , in the Anniversary Address of the President .
Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , vol. lix , pp. lxi-lxiii .
Practically included in the fuller notice by M. Ami .
1903 .
Sketch of the Life and Work of the late Dr. A. R. C. Selwyn .
By H. M. Ami .
Am(irican Geologist , vol. xxxi , pp. 1-21 .
With a Bibliography ( not W. W. ABRAHAM FOLLETT OSLER .
1808\mdash ; 1903 .
ABRAHAM FOLLETT OSLER was born in the neighbourhood of Birmingham on March the , 1808 .
He was educated at Hazelwood School , Birmingham , which was founded by homas Wright Hill , and carried on by him with the aid of his five sons , all of whom afterwards became men of considerable note .
The school was conducted on principles that were novel , and which caused it to attain some celebrity in its day .
The initiation of these inciples was chiefly due to Sir Rowland Hill , whose name became so well known in connection with the establishment of penny postage .
The principles were briefly these :-government and mutual responsibility , making the school , in fact , an enlightened republic and fixed standards of merit , instead of competition , as a test of success .
Abraham Follett Osler : The school , so far as it encouraged Mr. Osler 's fondness for mechanical studies , was advantageous to him , and he became noted for his remarkable ingenuity and great industry .
He carried on the printing of the school journal , made an admirable working model of a steam engine , and devoted his leisure more to the study of practical science than to the ordinary amusements of boys .
On leaving Mr. Hill 's school in 1824 , be was 16 years of age , Mr. Osler became at once an assistant to his father , who was carrying on a glass business in Birmingham .
Here he worked about sev years , but in 1831 the business iell entirely into his hands .
He at once remodelled it , and his artistic sense , mechanical ability , and originality of mind enabled him to develop it to a remarkable extent . .
Osler 's attention appears to have been first drawn to Meteorology by the Council of the Philosophical Institution of Birmingham purchasing what was , at that time , lS35 , a complete set of meteorological instruments ; these enabled the observer to do little more than register , at certain times , temperature , barometric pressure , amount of moisture , and the direction of the wind . .
Oslsr at once perceived that really to advance the subject of Meteorology , observations of a different character were required , and that the great thing needed was to obtain continuous records of atmospheric changes , and he immediately applied himself to and constructin a self-registering anemometer and rain gauge .
In this he was very successful .
The self-recording anemometer which he constructed received the varying wind-pressure on a plate of known area , supported on springs and kept right angles to the iion of the by means of a vane .
The degree to which this plate , pressed back upon the springs by each gust of wind was registered in pounds avoirdupois per square foot by a pencil on a sheet of paper graduated in hours , and moved forward at a uniform by means of a clock .
On the same sheet the direction of the wind was recorded .
This was done by means of a vane , and its movements were conveyed by an ingenious contrivance to a pen cil which moved transversely upon a of horizontal lines representing the points of the compass .
The curYe thus drawn gave a continuous reoord of the direction of the wind .
In addition to these , the rainfall was also recorded on the same paper .
To obtain this result the rain was collected in a funnel , the top of which had a known area , and flowed into a vessel supported on a bent lever with a counterbalancing weight , and , as the water accumulated , it caused the vessel to descend , and this movement was registered by a pencil , which produced a line on a part of the paper that was ruled with a scale of fractions of an inch .
When the limit of the capacity of the counterbalanced vessel was reached it discharged its contents automatically , and the pencil returned to the zero line .
330 Obituary Noties of deceased .
The first self-registering anemometer and rain-gauge , made by Mr. Osler in 1835 , was erected at the Philosophical Institution , Carmon Strest , Birmingham , and a description of its work , illustrated with records obtained from it , was published in the annual report of the Institution for 1836 .
Although Mr. Osler has of late years been chiefly known through the connection of his name with ] the self-registering anemometer , he took a large and active part in the introduction of a new era in the Science of Meteorology , and read numerous papers before the British Association on this subject .
From the time when hs first introduced ths principle of continuous graphio records of the direction and pressure of the wind , and of the rainfall , these methods of recording atmospheric changes became miversally adopted , and every possible help and information was given by Mr. Osler to anyone desiring to construct instruments on his model .
In the course of the next few years anemometers of this type were installed\mdash ; at the Greenwich Observatory , where it has beeu in use since 1841 ; at the Royal Exchange , London ; at Plymouth , under the charge of Sir William Snow Harris ; at Inverness , under the charge of Sir David Brewster ; at Liverpool , under the charge of Mr. Hartnup ; and at many other stations at home and abroad .
During succeeding years Mr. Osler expended much labour and time in tabulating and working out results from observations taken at various stations where his instruments were fixed .
He showed great ingenuity and resource in his methods of graphically depicting results in such ways as would enable the eye easily to detect the characteristic features , and to compare the observations of the various stations .
His first paper was read befors the British Association in 1837 , when he brieiiy described the working of the combined anemometer and rain-gauge .
At the same meeting Prof. Whswell 's anemometer , recording the mileage and direction of the wind , was des ribed by .
Southwood .
Prof. Whewell 's instrument was ths forerunner of Dr. Robinson 's famous revolving-cup anemometer for measuring the wind mileage , which was shown on dials as in a gas meter .
This method of measuring the horizontal motion of the air by means of revolving hemispherica ] cups , on the principle lvorked out by Dr. Robinson , soon came into general use , and Mr. Oslsr adopted it as an addition to his pressure anemometer , by making the cup shaft , geared down to a low speed , propel a ribbon of paper , which was puIrctuated at equal intervals of time by a hanm ) driven by the clock , thus obtaining mean hourly velocities as well as total mileage of the wind .
Abraham Follett Osler .
At a later period , when he had made improvements in the details and construction of his anemometer , be simplifisd the mileage record by using a double cam that caused a pencil to rise and fall at speeds proportionate to the velocity of the wind , upon the paper moved by the clock , thus getting the curves of pressure , direction , velocity , and rainfall , in connection with time , recorded on the same sheet of paper .
Papers were read by Mr. Osler before the itish Association , in 1839 , at Birmingham ; and in the year lS40 he gave one at Glasgow , in which he developed a method of exhibiting the relative prevalent and intensity of winds from different directions by so-called " " wind stars afterwards adopted by Capt. Fitzroy .
These wind stars depict the proportionate amount of wind from each of sixteen points of the compass during a given period ; he further made suggestions of applying this graphic method to observations of temperature , atmospheric pressure , and rainfall , which were afterwards followed up by Prof. John Phillips , whose very valuable results were given later , in 1846 .
Mr. Osler also developed another series of monthly , quarterly , annual , and mean diurnal wind curves , which clearly illustrated the average distribution of winds during each part of the day , and for the different seasons .
In these curves he noticed that the periods of calm came generally after midnight , and the periods of greatest disturbance after mid-day .
This observation led him to place mean diurnal wind velocity curves parallel to the mean diurnal temperature curve , and he found that , on reducing the two maxima and minima to the same values , they became almost identical .
Sir David Brewster , in a paper read at the same meeting , 1840 , on " " Barometric oscillations at Inverness came to the same conclusion , and , referring to the outcome of his barometric and thermometric observations , made use of the following words:\mdash ; " " This very important and new result is confirmed in a remark.able manner by the observations of Mr. Osler at Birmingham , made at the request and expense of the British Association , which I have seen since I arrived at Glasgow\mdash ; observations of inestimable value , which exhibit more important results respecting the phenomena and laws of the wind than any which have been obbained since meteorology became one of the physical sciences Mr. Osler often strongly urged the necessity of establishing meteorological observatories at suitably selected stations in different ]atitudes , so that aerial movements could be examined in tropical , where the action of the sun , as the great disturbing cause , is more marked , and its results more simpls and regular , and also at a series of stations extending through the temperate zones , where the conditions become more complex .
He maintained that if all these observations Obituary Notices of deceased .
were tabulated and worked out on the same system , much might be done to put the study of meteorology on a more scientific basis , and a better knowledge could be obtained of the laws that govern the phenomena of weather changes than can be deduced from isolated observations or columns of statistical figures .
He showed how all atmospheric disturbances were in some way related to the great trade winds , and how the charaoter of the winds themselves , the smooth and steady northerly winds and the rough and gusty south winds , indicated their origin , the one being drawn along to replace uprise air , and the other being pushed along by pressure from behind .
He showed how the return upper currents from the tropical regions , having cooled as they flowed towards the poles , tended to descend to the earth 's surface , and , meeting the lower northern current , produced the variable winds of the temperate regions .
He also showed the effect of the earth 's rotation in inducing eastern and western velocities to the northerly and southerly winds .
His paper at Birmingham before the British Association , in 1865 , still further developed his graphic methods , and showed the interesting and valuable results that could be obtained by minute and careful comparison of observations taken at three different stations\mdash ; Wrottesley , Liverpool , and Birmingham .
His last paper commuIlicated to the British Association , " " On the normal forms of clouds published in the report of the Birmingham meeting for the year 1886 .
Other subjects than Meteorology exercised .
Osler 's active mind .
In January , 1842 , he gave a series of three lectures on Chronometry at the Birmingham Philosophical Institution , in which he described the various ways of measuring time from the earliest periods to the present day , fully illustrating the subject by drawings and working models specially constructed for the purpose .
With these he showed the methods of measuring time by sundials , water clocks , and other of clepsydrae , and explained the various forms of escapement , and othez essential parts of modern clocks and watches .
Immediately following these lectures he proposed establishing a standard clock for Birmingham , and he collected funds with which he procured one of the highest class , made by Dent , which was placed in the front of the Philosophical Institution .
He also purchased a transit instrument and an astronomical clock to equip an obssrvatory on the roof of the building , and himself took the astronomical observations for regulating the standard clock .
By-and-bye , when he had fully established the clock 's accuracy , in the public estimation , he , on one unday morning , altered the clock from Birmingham to Greenwich time , without mentioning it to any one , and , though the difference was remarked upon , the Church and private clocks and watches Abraham Follett Osler .
throughout the town were gradually adjusted to Greenwich mean time , while the country generally was keeping only local time .
In 1855 Mr. Osler was proposed and elected a Fellow of the Royal Society .
Many different subjects appealed forcibly to him and benefited by his ingenuity .
He was at one time interested in Craniometry , and devised and constructed an instrument for this purpose which was remarkable for its completeness and accuracy .
It gave full-sized diagrams of the exact form of the skull .
In 1876 Mr. Osler finally retired from business , but his mental activity continued , and he then devoted himself to the consideration of purely scientific matters , and although , owing his nervous constitution , he published but little , he has left behind many papers of interest , which show the great scope and originality of his mind .
In 1832 he married Mary , daughter of T.homas Clark , a merchant and manufacturer in Birmingham , and had a large family , of whom only three have outlived him .
Devoted as he always was to his family , his home life was a constant pleasure to him , but his sensitive and nervous disposition did not allow of his taking part in the publio life even of his native town .
He was , nevertheless , a generous benefactor to Birmingham .
Canon Kingsley , when President of ths Birmingham and hIidland Institute in 1872 , urged strongly on the Council of the Institnte the great importance of founding classes for the teaching of systematic hygiene , and , in response to this appeal , Mr. Osler anonymously presented to the Institute the sum of to enable this to be done .
These classes have been from the first a great success , and are continued to the present day .
In 1883 , on the completion of the new Municipal buildings in Birmingham , of which a lofty clock tower formed an important feature , Mr. Osler , prompted by his life-long interest in chronometry , presented to the town a clock and bells suitable for the tower\mdash ; these are the same in size and pattern as those at the Law Courts in London .
In 1886 the work of the Council of the Birmingham IsIidland Institute being crippled by the want of funds , Mr. Osler met their difficulties by a present of , insisting , at the same time , that the name of the donor should not be made public .
In the following year he gave a like sum of to the endowment fund of Mason College , again under the same condition that the name of the giver be not made known , and , although the Council of the College " " earnestly desired\ldquo ; that Mr. Osler would withdraw this restriction , he never did so .
Obituary Nohces of Fellows deceased .
On the establishment of the Birmingham University , Mr. Osler insisted that his subscription of to the endowment fund should be printed on the list as given anonymously .
Other institutions and individuals have to thank him for generous acts towards them .
He was a man of great mental power , very clear-sighted in all that interested him , and he fearlessly held opinions which he believed to be true .
At the same time , his sensitive temperament prevented his taking the prominent position in scientific and public life which he would otherwis6 certainly have occupied .
Mr. Osler died at the age of 95 on April the 26th , 1903 .
W. J. R. SIR ERASIsIUS OMMANNEY .
1814\mdash ; 1904 .
ERASMIJS OMMANNEY was born on May 22 , 1814 , the seventh son of the late Sir Francis Molyneux Ommanney .
He entered the Navy in August 1826 , on board H.M.S. " " Albion in which he took part in the naval action of Navarino October 20 , 1827 .
In 1835 he paid his first visit to the Arctic regions in H.M.S. " " Cove sent under the command of Captain J. Clark Ross in December to Baffins Bay , to rescue some whalers beset in the ice .
Lieut. Ommanney received special commendation from the Admiralty for his behaviour in this dangerous service .
In 1840 he became a Commander having served in the interval in the Mediterranean , and was placed in command of the " " Yesuvius one of the early type of steam vessels in the navy , in which he served for three years in the Mediterranean .
Promoted to Captain on November 9 , 1846 , he was at first smployed in Ireland on relief measures , and then was appointed to H.M.S. " " Assistance one of the vessels sent under the chief command of Captain Horatio Austin in 1850 , to search for Sir John Franklin .
In command of this vessel he did much good work .
He found the first trace of 's Expedition , and travelled great distances by sledge in fruitless further researches , in the course of which he mapped much coast line and obtained during two years many valuable magnetic observations , some of them in the immediate vicinity of the Magnetic Pole .
Sir Era .
) .
During the Russian War , Ommanney in H.M.S. " " Eurydice\ldquo ; commanded a small squadron sent to the White Sea in 1854 , when good service was performed , and some more magnetic observations obtained .
In 1855 he commanded H.M.S. " " Hawke\ldquo ; in the Baltic and saw more service .
In 1857 he was in command of the 80-gun ship " " Brunswick\ldquo ; in West Indiss , and in subsequent years in the Channel and Mediter- anean , and was from 1862 to 1864 , Senior Naval Officer at GibraItar .
He did not again serve afloat , but became a Rear-Admiral in 1864 , Vioe-Admiral in 1871 and an Admiral on retired list in 1877 .
1867 he received the C.B. for his Arctic and other services , and iu 1868 was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society as a distinguished Arctic orer .
He was knighted in 1877 , and created a K.C.B. in He received the honorary degree of .D .
from the University of Montreal in Sir E. Ommanney was a Fellow of the Astronomical and Geographical Societies , and was also a constant attendant at the Ieetings of the British Association , presiding over Section in 1877 .
He was for many years an earnest advocate of the renewal of Antarctic Exploration , and at the 1886 Meeting , brought all his influence to bear with the view of iuviting public interest in the question .
He went as a member of two Eclipse Expeditions , to Spain in 1870 and to Luxor in 1874 .
He served for many years on the Council of the United Service Institution .
He was twice married , in 1844 to Emily M. , daughter of S. Smith , Esq. , and in 1862 to Mary , daughter of T. A. Stone , Esq. , of Curzon Street , Mayfair , and he leaves descendants .
Admiral Ommanney was an officer of conspicuous energy and lived to a great age , dying in his year at his son 's residence , St. Michael 's Vicarage , Portsmouth , on December 21 , 1904 .
W. J. L. W. Notices of Fellows deceased .
SIR JOHN SIMON .
1816\mdash ; 1904 .
JOHN SIMON was born on October 10 , 1816 , and died on July 23 , 1904 .
His grandfather , a native of Montargis , in France , ppears to have settled in London , for purposes of trade , towards the close of the 18th century , and married an English wife .
Hi only son , who lvas educated in England , became in due time a member of the Stock Exchange , and for over 30 years ( 1848-79 ) served on the General Purposes Committee of that body , and took a leadin part in its business .
By his second marriage , to Mademoiselle Matilda Nonnet , he became the father of a large family , of whom the subject of this notice was the eldest .
John Simon was therefore in greater measure French than English , for he was of French descent , not only through his mother , but also through his paternal grandfather .
Simon received his education at the well-known school of Dr. Burney , nephew of the author of ' ' Evelina After seven years at school he spent about a year in Germany in order to learn the language .
On his return to London , in 1833 , he began his professional studies in the way that was , at that time , thought best fitted for ths purpose .
Seventy years ago , and for long after , the first step towards acquiring the requisite knowledge and skill for the exercise of the medical art was to serve an apprenticeship .
In Simon 's case the method had great advantages .
He was apprenticed to Mr. J. H. Green , F.R.S. , Surgeon to St. Thomas ' Hospital , who was not only a most distinguished surgeon , but a scholar and a man of letters .
Under .
Green 's direction he spent the four years 1833-7 in the study of anatomy , physiology and surgery , and on his rscommendation appointed , in the latter year , immediately after passing his professional examination , Demonstrator of Anatomy and Assistant Surgeon in King 's College Hospital .
These positions he held for nine years 1838-47 \mdash ; years lvhich afforded him leisurs for a variety of nonprofessional studies , rather literary than scientific .
It appears indeed that it was not until the end of his official service at King 's College that he began to take a vivid intersst in physiological science , evidencing his capacity for scientific inquiry by offering to the Royal Society a paper on the comparative anatomy of the Thyroid Gland , the of which the Royal Society recognised by promptly electing its author to the Fellowship .
In 1847 Simon was appointed Lecturer nding that the name Simon was originally French , it was usunlly pronouJlced as if it were German .
Sir John on Pathology at St. Thomas ' Hospital , and published an introductory discourse , " " On the aims and philosophic method of pathological research which is remarkable as showing the grasp he had at this early period of the fundamental principles of a branch of science which had then barely come into existence .
This was followed in 1859 by the publication of the course of lectures on " " General Pathology which will be referred to further on .
In 1848 Simon married .
Tan , daughter of Matthew Delaval O'Meara , who had served with distinction as Commissary-General in the Peninsular War .
Two months later he received the important appointment of Officer of Health to the City of London , which he held for seven years .
His work in this capacity is .embodied in his City of London Annual Reports .
These were separatsly published in 1854 , and in part republished by the Sanitary Institute 33 years later .
In 1855 Simon entered the servics of the State as Iedical Officer\ldquo ; of the Central Sanitary Authority .
The post was , in the first instance , attached to the General Board of Health , which came to an end in 1858 .
The Legislation of that year devolved the functions of that Board relating to Public Health on the Lords of the Council .
In 1859 an Act was passed by which the appointment of Medical Officer was rendered permanent , and the duty imposed on the holder of it of advising and acting for his Ministerial chief ( the Vice-President of the Council for ducation ) on all matters relating to sanitary administra- tion .
This office was then held by Mr : Lowe ( afterwards Lord Sherbrooke ) , to whose active intervention the successful carrying out of the arrangements above referred to was in great measure due .
From the moment that Mr. Simon 's position was secured , he lost no opportunity of using the resources of his office for the advancement of Pathology .
Even before this was accomplished he had written an important Report on the preventability of eertain kinds of premature death , which was founded on the elaborate statistical investigations just before contributed to the Board of Health by the late Dr. Headlam Greenhow , F.R.S. These were subsequently published under the title of ' ' Papers relating to the Sanitary State of the People of England , \ldquo ; * fl work which has since become one of the classics of sanitary science .
Simon was thus able at once to take the position that " " where preventable disease prevailed in excess , the aetiological facts ought to be ascertained by medical investigation for the information of the general public , the Government , and the Legislature The Board of Health had not been in possession of the necessary machinery for making such inquiries , but as soon as the new authority * Public Health Reports edited by Edward Seaton , M.D. Lond. , 1887 , pp. Obiiuary Notices of deceased .
was established , Simon presented a " " reasoned programme\ldquo ; of the sanitary improvements which he considered to be ost necessary\mdash ; a programme which was faithfully carried out during the succeeding years of fruitful administrative work .
Among the inquiries which were then initiated , one may be mentioned which was of special importance , namely , that which was entrusted by Mr. Simon to Dr. Buchanan , F.R.S. , his distinguished successor .
Its purpose was to ascertain the condition of towns in which , during the preceding decade , works of sanitary improvement had been carried out in a thorough and efficient manner , as compared with that of others in which no such improvements had been made .
The results of this investigation afforded stronger svidence than had ever before been obtained of the saving of life by good sanitation , and were of great value in quickening popular interest in the subject , as well as affording a secure basis for future legislation .
After twelve years of successful progress , the function of the Privy Council as Central Authority was , in its turn , brought to an end by the legislation of 1871 .
By the Local Government Act of that year , the previously existing Poor Law Board was replaced by the newly constituted Local Covernment Board , of which the organisation and functions did not differ materially from those of its predecessor , the Poor Law Board .
To this Board the future sanitary administration of England was committed .
The lines on which it was organized were inconsistent with the principles by which , on taking office , Mr. Simon had , in harmonious co-operation with successive ministerial chiefs , been guided in the discharge of his official duties .
These principles were first , that the sanitary administration of the country should be under the direct of the medical department ; secondly , that the relations of the department with local sanitary authorities should be such as to enable it to bring its influence promptly to bear on them in case of default of duty ; and thirdly , that the saving of human life by the prevention of disease should be regarded as the highest motive of official action .
As in all these respects the system of sanitary government initiated in 1871 seemed to be inconsistent with the efficient working of the medical department , Simon , after a few years of contest , during which he endured with , perhaps , too little patience the constantly recurring pinpricks of official interference , asked and obtained leave to retire .
The investigations which Simon set on foot during the first half dozen years after his appointment , although , in the strictest sense , scientific , wers intimately connected with the administrative work of * ' ' English Institutions London , 1897 , p. 269 .
' Public Ifealth Reports .
cit. , pp. 262-272 . .
John Simon .
his office .
But from 1866 or 1867 onwards he , with the approval of his ministerial chief , set on foot inquiries of a more theoretical nature .
These were undertaken withreference to diate practical results , in the confidence that , as .
Simon put it , " " they would lead to more precise and intimate knowledge of the causes and processes of important diseases , and would thus augment more more the vital resources of preventive medicine The expenses of these investigations were , in the first instance , provided for by special Parliamentary grants , but in 1870 , when Mr. Lowe Chancellor of the Exchequer , an annual subsidy of was voted by Parliament for the " " Auxiliary Investigations for the advancement of Medicine to be conducted by the Medical Department .
Thus preventive medicine profited a second time by the enlightened appreciation of this distinguished statesman .
Happily the legislation of 1871 did not affect this , so that until his resignation Simon had ample means for carrying on the researches which he thought important .
These related chiefly to fundamental aetiological questions concerning the nature of infection , the pathological anatomy of tuberculous disease , the relation between the tuberculous and the traumatic i1lfections , the aetiology of tncer , and other equally important subjects .
In all these inquiries Simon obtained the -operation of men who had the necessary time and technical training for the work committed to them ; and it may be noted that in his official repo ] ts of the results , he invariably gave the principal credit for whatever new discoveries were achieved , to his coadjutors , even when these additions to knowledge resulted from investigations initiated by ] Having arrived at this turning point in the history of .
Simon 's official life , it will not appear out of place to summarize the outcome of his twelve years of active effort ( 1859-71 ) .
No impartial person will question that they were also years of achievement .
As a sanitary administrator he had begun .
realizi11g that the most serious obstacle to effectual work was want of sutiicient information as to the nature of the dangers it was his businsss to guard against .
By means of his Annual Reports , particularly those published during the earlier years of his tenure of office , he had shown the nature of the wanted , the means by which it must be acquired , and how it could best be rendered available for the public service .
He held it to be necessary that spccial investigations should be promptly made in all parts of England , wherever and whenever che local prevalence of disease afforded ground for the existence of epidemics , or the prevalence of local , occupational , or other insanitary conditions .
He also considered it to be indispensable that Obituary Nohces of deceased .
special laboratory researches should be undertaken by the department , for the elucidation of obscure aetiological questions and for bringing the data so obtained to bear on sanitary administration .
In both of these directions the sanitary administration of the country had , in 1871 , attained a high degree of efficiency .
The thorough supervision of local sanitary authorities had been rendered possible by the appointment of a staff of highly qualified medical inspectors , and , in consequence , the action of the central authority had become more and more influential , so that , although its functions were for the most part only advisory , its advice was promptly and punctually complied with .
Whether the circumstances which induced Mr. Simon to withdraw from the public service were sufficient to justify that act , may well be questioned ; but it can scarcely be doubted that much advantage would have accrued to this country if free scope had been given to the principles and methods which he inculcated .
In the preceding paragraphs I have referred exclusively to the years which led up to Simon 's withdrawal from active life .
As regards the next twenty-eight years , it will be sufficient to indicate his principal occupations , and notice one or two events of his life .
The same year in which he resigned his official position , he was appointed ' ' Crown Member\ldquo ; of the General Medical Council ; and a few years later ( 1881 ) served on the Royal Commission on the Constitution of the lIedical Profession .
In 1878 he was elected President of the Royal College of Surgeons , and about the same time presided over the Pathological Society .
In 1881 , in co-operation with his friend .
Kingdon , afterwards Master of the Grocers ' Company , Simon advised the Company as to the best way of employing an annual grant for the advancement of sanitary science .
The plan recommended was the establishment of research scholarships , with reference to hich he advised that the conditions of candidature shound be unrestricted by any conditions excepting age , and that each candidate should be required to set forth the scope of the investigation proposed by him , and to submit evidence of his qualifications for the vork .
It was further recommended that on this evidence a selection should be made by a committes of the Company , with the advice of scientific " " Assessors This scheme was carried out by the Company on the lines of the above proposals .
At first some difficulty was experienced in finding candidates of adequate scientific attainments , but as time went on , and the opportunities for training in the scientific methods required becams more accessible , this difficulty vanished .
For many years the Grocers ' scholarships have enabled some of the best of our young pathologists to devote themselves to researches of practical value in preventive medicine . .
John Simon .
I now propose to supplement the short sketch contained in the preceding paragraphs by such mors detailed information as will be of service to the reader in forming an estimate of Mr. Simon 's attainme1lts as a biologist , as a pathologist , and as the adviser of Government in matters relating to public health .
Of Simon 's two researches in comparative anatomy , one , on the ' ' Oomparative Anatomy of the Thyroid Gland , \ldquo ; was contributed to the Royal Society in 1844 .
To the other , on the strncture , development , morphology , comparative anatomy , and physiology of the thymus glaIld , the Astley-Cooper prize was awarded the same year .
The exactitude of his observations , many of which were at that time no his reluctance to take anything for granted that he had not confirmed by his own observation , the care he bestowed on the ma1ly hundred original dissections and mieroscopical preparations he made , all serve to show that comparative anatomy was the loser for his not choosing it as the branch of science he was to follow .
Until he took up the study of the two organs , there had been a great deal of confusion in the discussion of their morphology in the lower vertebrates .
In some orders of mammaIs , in birds , and in some reptiles and amphibians , Simon was the first to describe , or to distinguish , the .
He further established an inverse proportion between its persistence in an animal or group of animals , and the mnscular activity of that animal , and concluded therefrom , and also from his iailure to recognise it in the gill-breathing vertebrates , that the chief function of the thymus consists in its supplying fuel for respiration during its period of activity .
The Thyroid he described for the first time in fish and in certain reptiles , and showed that while its position varies in the different genera of fish in which it is present , its relation to the ascular supply of the brain is the same , and resembles that which prevails in the higher vertebrates .
As we have seen , Simon first obtained the approval of the Royal Society as a biologist .
But it was as ths first English systematic writer on Pathology , i.e. , on the science which deals with the causes and nature of disease , that he first became known to students of medicine .
The lectures at St. Thomas ' Hospital appeared in 1850 .
The foundation of the new science had been laid by Henle , and Virchow was attracting to Wurzburg such English students as desired to learn the new methods of pathological .
The fact that Simon was the English exponent of the rapid progress of discovery in Germany gave the lectures a special interest ; for , at that time , the notion that the functions of the living organism could be best understood by them into relation to the processes of non-living nature , and best vol. 184 .
" " Pbysiological on Gland.\ldquo ; " " General publisbed by Henry Renshtlw , 1850 .
Notices of Fellows deceased .
investigated by the experimental method , was new to those who approached questions relating to the causation of disease from the point of view of practical medicine .
Simon 's aim was to show that the sams methods which , during the preceding decade , had yielded such remarkable fruits in physiology , could also be applied to the study of diseass ; and that neither of these branches of knowledge presented any exception to " " the unbroken uniformity which prevails in the operation of natural laws The comparison of these lectures with Simon 's later writings shows ns how , prooeeding from the principle set forth in the words I have quoted , he followed , during the 25 years of his active life , the rapid progress of anatomical , clinical , and experimental discovery ; taking care not to be in front of ascertained fact , however far he might be in advance of current teaching .
From first to last , the side of pathology which chiefly interested him was the aetiological , not merely because the knowledge of the origin of a dissase is indispensable for the understanding of its nature , but more directly in consideration of the immediate practical value of such knowledge , as suggesting the means of prevention .
Among aetiological questions , those of the specific causes of infective diseases , and the manner in which they produce their characteristic effects , were very fully considered in relation to the doctrine of cont This now word was employed by Simon to designate the material agent by which infection is communicated from the diseased to the healthy body .
In the lectures he attributed to " " true contagia\ldquo ; two characteristic endowments , namely , that they are able to produce their characteristic results when given in the smallest conceivable doses , and that " " they undergo , in the body on which they act , a striking and singular increase ; which increase , if recovered from , confers on its subject immunity.\ldquo ; * As to the way by which this happens , he speculates as follows : a certain organic material ( the ntagium ) enters into particular relations with ( a normal ingredient of the blood ) .
The effects of their coming together are ( 1 ) the utter destruction of , and ( 2 ) that A undergoes an immense augmentation .
' ' What has become of Whence has the new A been derived 1 It is difficult to avoid the conviction hich arises with almost logical certainty , that the increase of one material and ths decrease of the other have stood in an essential mutual relation ; that , in short , it has been a process of conversion ; that the essential relation of the two matters ( that derived from withwut , and that contained unthin the blood ) has consisted in the ready convertibility of the one into the other ; that the specific power of the virus is its power of effecting this transformation , and no other.\ldquo ; *Lecture , p. 258 .
Leoture XII .
, p. 264 .
Sir John Simon .
Accordingly susceptibility depends on the presence of , immunity on its complete conversion .
If this is admitted , it follows that the human organism must be inhabited by as great an assortment of specific susceptibilities as there are communicable diseases ; for , on the one hand , the specificity of the contagium A necessarily carries with it that of the substratum , by the transmutation of which it is produced , and , on the other , the immunity from a specific contagium which the hypothesis accounts for as resulting from the transmutation , is a thing quite as specific as the previous susceptibility .
It follows from this that the material of contagium must be a constituent of the blood not essential to the performance of its nutritive functions ( for otherwise the acquirement of immunity would be fatal to life ) , the characteristic facts relating to it being first , that it is convertible into contagium as the immediate result of infection ; secondly , that as the consequence of that transformation , it becomes liabls to catalytic expulsion from the organism ; and thirdly , that its elimination is equivalent to immunity .
Whether or not Simon 's reasoning can now be regarded as adequate , it is of great interest to note that the fundamental notion of the 1lormal susceptibility of the organism was clearly enunciated by him 54 years ago , as serving to explain the facts of infection as they then presented themselves , and that now , after half a century of progress , the same notion finds expression in terms more elaborate , but ot essentially different from those which were then employed .
It was not until the seventies that Simon again wrote on the subject .
The great discoveries which , in ths following decade , afforded ground for the inference that e specific infection centres round a specific concomitant micro-organism , had not yet been made , and Simon was not destined to take part in them .
To him the settlement of the identity of each true contagium by the u11iformity of its operation as tested experimentally , was of greater interest than its biological classification .
He was well aware that in one or two instaness it had been proved experimentally that " " the specific microphytes of disease\ldquo ; can be " " conducted through a series of artificial cultivations and that " " germs thus remotely descended from a first contagium will , if living animals be inoculated with them , breed in these animals the specific disease\ldquo ; and he anticipated that specific organic forms might prove to be the " " essential originators of infective processes\ldquo ; ; but he conjectured that the progress of discovery would be slow .
In this he was mistaken .
At the moment that he thus wrote , Koch had already in hand the investigations which led to the discovery of the bacteriological method , and in a few more years conjecture was transformed into fact .
* ' ' Public Health R\amp ; ports ed. by Edward Seaton , M.D. , London , 1887 , p. 578 .
of Fellows deceased .
In tion with the subject of contagion , reference should here be made to the doctrine strongly enforced by the early sanitary reformers who were Simon 's immediate predecessors , that filth was the enemy against which all measures for the prevention of zymotic diseases must be chiefly directed .
Recognizing that the belief in the dependence of disease on dirt has a foundation in fact , he did his best to bring its essential characters as a cause of disease into prominence , so that its special meaning as a term to be commonly employed in sanitary sciencs should be well understood and determined .
In the introduction to a paper , published in 1874 , on the subject , he shows that sanitary improvement has always had for its foundation the broad knowledge that filth makes disease .
He then gives in detail the reasons for concluding that filth , considered as a source of danger to health , is never definable in chemical terms , and finally limits the technical application of the word to those kinds of uncleanness which contain , as their essential ingredients , morbific " " und contagia He leaves the question open whether the products of putrefaction are necessarily morbific , but strongly objects to the assumption that the presence or absence of offensive smell is to be consldered as evidence of infectiveness .
In the battle that had to be fought in Simon 's time for cleanliness in public life , it was necessary to use plain words intelligible to the ordinary reader .
In our pre-bacteriological ignorance , we had , at that time , no direct knolvledge of the enemies we had to contend with , so that hand-to-hand fighting was out of the question .
The best that could be done was done .
The best existing information was brought to bear for the enforcement of cleanliness and of the rapid removal of dangerous refuse , with results to the public health which could scarcely have been surpassed had we been possessed of our present knowledge .
Of ths scientffic inquiries which were initiated by Simon in connection with his official position , none were more fruitful than those relating to the aetiology of pulmonary tuberculosis .
Towards the end of the sixties , the subject presented itself to his consideration from two points of view\mdash ; from that of the local and occupational conditions which had been recently ascertained to be operative in dstermining its prevalence , and from that of experimental evidence of its infectivity .
A mass of new information as to the production of consumption by dusty atmosphere and defective vsntilation had been brought together by means of local inquiries .
On these followed the very remarkable investigations of Dr. Buchanan , showing that , in the absence of any personal conditions affecting the population , the drying of the soil brought about by works of sewerage in towns had led to a marked , pp. 451 et .
seq. .
John diminution in phthisis .
The two facts above referred to , namely , the injurious influence of dampness of soil and the liability of persons following indoor occupations , afforded ground for regarding phthisis as a preveniable disease , and consequently for attaching the utmost importance to the acquirement of information as to its nature and aetiology .
At the very time that these important investigations were in progress , the discovery was made in France that tuberculous dissase could be communicated by inoculation to animals .
Simon promptly recognized ' ' the immense pathological consequences which it involved and initiated ( in an experimental inquiry as to the facts .
By elaborate and multiplied anatomical investigations it was ascertained that the disease so produced was identical in its essential characters with tubercular disease in man ; and from this fact , in connection with what was previously known as regards " " the mode in which tubercle in man tends to spread infectively from its original site to secondary and tertiary sites in the affected body it was concluded that tubercle in man " " must be a specific zymotic disease.\ldquo ; But the scope of this conclusion was limited by the observation that in certain animals a series of pathological changes , scarcely distinguishable in their development from tubereulosis , occasionally presented themselves as the rssults of localizsd traumatic infection .
The result of this observation was to throw doubt on the aetiological specificity of the contagium of tubercle\mdash ; a doubt which was not completely removed nntil Koch , few years later , discovered the tubercle bacillus .
As a writer on preventive medicine , Simon is distinguished from most others by the higher level of the standpoint from which he regarded the responsibilities of the State and of the individual .
The two spheres\mdash ; philanthropy and public duty\mdash ; were , in his collception of them , one .
1Ie imposed on himself and on those who worked with him the strictest punctuality in the discharge of public duty , but was not the less dominated and guided by motives higher than those of mere official obligation .
Of these motives the dominant one was the desire to help the poor , to mitigate the miseries which penury brings with it , and to save life .
After these came the desire to work the same ends by adding to the sum of human knowledgc .
His views as to the philanthropic aim which should actuate all sanitary efforts can be best learned from the introductory chapters of the York on " " English Sanitary Institutions.\ldquo ; Readers who knew Simon will understand the feeling with which , in one of these chapters , entitled ' ' Mediaeval philanthropy he writes of the wonderfnl outburst of Christian , pp. 335-338 . .
cit. , p. 342 .
" " English Sanitary Institutions London , 1897 ( 2 nd edition ) .
Votices of Fdlows deceased .
henevolence which was awakened by St. Francis , whose life-work presented to the world such an ideal of good-doing as had never before been witnessed .
The motive which he regarded as essential to the successful carrying out of all genuine philanthropic work must be the same as that which actuated St. Francis , the\ldquo ; servant of the poor* all such work , and particularly the prevention of disease , being , in Simon 's judgment , only possible to those who are resolved to give " " heart , as well as brain and hand , to the servics of the least of mankind\ldquo ; ; " " skill is only half our equipment The chapter from which I have just quoted is followed by others relating to what Simon designates as the " " growth of humanity in British politics These have a special interest as bringing before us the views he entertained as to the influence on sanitary progress of religious and philanthropic movements in modern times .
Just as in the 16th century the preaching of St. Francis let loose the springs of Christian charity in Italy , so the revival of religion in the 18th century in our own country , bore similar fruit in making men more willing to love their neighbours as themselves .
The reform of prisons , the repeal of cruel penal legislation , the abolition of slavery , and many other advances in the same direction , which were effected during the second half of the 18th century and the beginmng of the 19th , are referred to by Simon as affording evidence how profoundly public opinion and feeling were stirred , during that period , to sympathy with the destitute , the miserable , and even with the criminal ; and how these philanthropic movements prepared the way for the sanitary reforms of the first two decades ( 1838-1858 ) of the reign of Queen Victoria .
I venture to hope that no reader will deem that 1 have occupied too much space in bringing under his notice the views entertained by Simon as to the power of high motive to inspire oonduct , whether private or public .
No one will question that he was possessed of splendid qualities , both as a man of business and as a man of science .
It may not be so apparent that the source of these qualities lay deeper than the mere conscientious obedience to private and public obligations .
To those who desire to satisfy themselves that his life and conduct were governed by these high ideaIs , we recommend the reading of the " " English Sanitary Institutions Sir John Simon was made C.B. on his rstiremeut from office , and K.C.B. in 1887 .
He received the honorary degree of D.C.L. of Oxford in 1872 , and the .D .
of Cambridgs in 1882 .
The Buchanan Medal of the Royal Society was conferred on him in 1897 .
J. B. S. , .
49 .
chap .
viii .
, p. 128 .
GEORGE SALMON .
1819\mdash ; 1904 .
GEORGE SALMON was born in Dublin on September 25 , 1819 .
He came of a respectable Cork family , and received his school education in his own county .
He matriculated at Trinity College , Dublin , when only fourteen , and graduated in the year 1838 .
He was elected to a scholarship in classics in 1837 , and at the honour degree examination in 1838 he obtained the first Senior Moderatorship in MathematicsIn 1840 he was awarded the Madden 's premium on the results of the Fellowship examination having , in the opinion of the examiners , " " best deserved to succeed if another Fellowship had been vacant In the following year he was elected to a fellowship , and to the end of his long life he remained in the closest contact with Trinity College .
Ha died in the Provost 's House on January 22 , 1904 .
A Fellow of Trinity College receives the nominal salary of year , Irish currency .
He is , however , elected , as a matter of course , to a tutorship , generally immediately after obtaining his Fellowship , although he may have to wait some little time for a vacancy .
Furthermore , the Board , which is the supreme governing body of the University , is composed of the Provost and seven Senior Fellows .
The Provost is appointed by the Crown .
The Senior Fellows attain their positions in virtue of seniority .
A tutor is required to lecture twice a day during term , to assist at the ordinary examinations and to advise and direct his pupils .
As a rule , the tutorial lectures are delivered to classes of from fifteen to twenty-five pass-men .
Frequently a tutor , especially a man of marked ability , is appointed honour-lecturer , and he may be re-appointed year- after year .
An honour-lecturer is relieved of one of his classes of passmen .
Such was Salmon 's tutorial work until he received the Regius Professorship of Divinity in 1866 .
In accordance with the old rule which required Fellows of Trinity College to take Holy Orders , Salmon was ordained in 1844 .
He began at once to take part in the work of the Divinity School , as an assistant to the Regius Professor of Divinity , a post he held for twenty years " " His duties in this department were not very exacting , but they kept alive his interest in ecclesiastical questions .
He was early recognised as a preacher of ability .
His sermons were marked by originality of conception , vigorous common sense in the treatment , and a bold and iking , though unadorned style.\ldquo ; In 1852 Archbishop notices in the Times and in " " Nature\ldquo ; have been of great assistance in drawing up this account of Dr. Salmon 's life and work .
The Times ' notice .
of Fellows deceased .
made him ons of his examining .
In 1858 he was appointed Donegal Lecturer in Mathematics , and he taught engineering students the elements of the calculus .
In 1859 he proceeded to the degrees of B.D. and D.D. , and he published in 1861 his first series of sermons preached in ths Chapel of Trinity College .
It is evident , from what has been said , that Salmon 's duties as tutor and lecturer were not of the highest order .
There was much routine work in his lecturing , and much vexatious waste of time in supervising a large chamber of pupils .
There was little scope in his subordinate position for the exercise of his strong personality in effecting direct improvement in the Mathematical or in the Divinity School .
And owing to the method of appointing honour-lecturers , he had but little { hance of permanently influencing the abler mathematical under- graduates with whom he came in contaot .
During these years , however , he produced indirectly in the teaching of mathematics an enormous change which extended far beyond his own university .
He published his four great text-books\mdash ; the " " Conic Sections\ldquo ; in 1847 , the " " Higher Plane Curves\ldquo ; in 1852 , the " " Lessons Introductory to the Study of the Modern Higher Algebra\ldquo ; in 1859 , and the " " Geometry of Three Dimensions ' ' in 1862 .
To a great extent those books remain the standard works on their respective subjects .
They have been widely translated , and they have passed through numerous editions in the translations as well as in the original .
Moreover , during his tutorship , Salmon published most of his original papers .
It was natural that a man of Salmon 's originality and versatility should have desired a post of greater responsibility and of wider scope for initiation , as well as freedom from the irksome duties of a tutorship .
In 1862 Salmon was regarded as the fitting successor to Graves in the chair of mathematics .
Hamilton , who was working with the greatest vigour on his " " Elements of Quaternions was ineligible even had he desired to exchange the chair of astronomy for that of mathematics .
At that time an examiner for Fellowship was of necessity a Fellow , but Hamilton had never sat for Fellowship .
Acting on the advice of his friends , Hamilton had notified to the Board that he was a candidate for the Professorship of Mathematics lvhen it was vacant in 1843 .
" " Their answer through the Registrar , Dr. Wall , was an inquiry whether he intended to present himself as a candidate at the next Fellowship examination , and an intimation that in that case it would be requisite for him ' to get into full ' This reply concluded the negotiation.\ldquo ; Salmon laboured under no such disability .
Next to Hamilton he was the most distinguished mathematician in the University .
' He was an admirable teacher says Sir Robert Ball , who raves'""Life of Hamilton.\ldquo ; Vol. Salmon .
attended his lectures on conics and on elementary theoretical dynamics .
Thus his qualifications were such that his election to the Professorship of Mathematics was a foregone conclusion had he become a candidate .
However , about the same time the Archbishop King 's Lectureship in Divinity fell vacant , and understanding that a junior Fellow who was his senior by two years would not apply , Salmon relinquished his claims on the Professorship , as he believed he would certainly obtain the Lectureship .
The junior Fellow changed his mind after the chair of mathematics had been filled up , and the less distinguished but more senior man succeeded to the Lectureship .
To Salmon 's bitter and lasting disappointment he was forced to remain a tntor .
At last , in 1866 , after twenty-five years of tutorial drudgery , Salmon was made Regius Professor of Divinity , and consequent on his appointment he resigned his Fellowship .
It may be asked how such a state of affairs could have been tolerated : why did Salmon 's university abuse his keen intellect by compelling him to deliver elementary lectures to small classes in mathematics , or , as it may have been , in logics or in classics 1 Why was the initiative of a strong man cramped and dwarfed by twenty-five years service in subordinate positions ?
The answer is that just before Salmon 's election to Fellowship great changes had taken place which retarded enormously the rate of promotion in the university .
The rate of promotion may be most conveniently measured by the reciprocal of the period elapsed from election to Fellowship to -option on the Board .
At present the period averages 39 years .
In Salmon 's case , had he been able to retain his Fellowship , it would have been slightly shorter , and after 35 years ' service he would have attained a place on the governing body .
At the time of Salmon 's election to Fellowship , the average period was about half its present amount , and not very long before it was much shorter still .
The causes of this startling growth of stagnation are due to the cessation of church preferments , to the abolition of the celibacy statute , and to a levelling-up process in the method of paying the tutors .
The salary of a tutor used to depend very largely on the number of his pupils .
A tutor lectured his own pupils , and no limit was imposed on their number .
Doubtless this arrangement was in many ways defective , and it was discarded for the present plan , on which a tutor does not derive any very great pecuniary advantage from a large chamber of pupils , does not necessarily teach his own pupils , and cannot accept more than a definite proportion of the matriculating students .
On the other hand , unsuccessful tutol in the olden times had little inducement to remain in College unless hc * ' ' Proc. London Society Ser. 2 , , p. 23 .
Notices of Fellows deceased .
happensd to be engaged in some scholarly work .
In that even the would soon obtain a professorship .
Otherwise he would retire on one of the numerous college livings .
Further , any member of the University of note had a good chance of a bishopric .
Hamilton 's predecessor at the Observatory left it for a bishop 's palace just ten years before Salmon entered college .
The number and the value of ecclesiastical offices steadily declined , and the college patronage was abolished by the Disestablishment of the Church of Ireland in 1869 .
Lastly , the celibacy statute was repealed absolutely the year preceding Salmon 's election to Fellowship , and , although dispensations permitting the marriage of certain Fellows used occasionally to be procured , this repeal of the statute must have tended to increase the stagnation .
In 1866 Salmon became Regius Professor of Divinity in succession to Dr. Butcher , who had been consecrated Bishop of Mead .
From this time he ceased to work at mathematics save at the Theory of Numbers , and the later editions of his mathematical works were brought out under the supervision of Mr. Cathcart , Fellow and Tutor of Trinity College .
It is given to few men to attain to the first rank of investigators in two distinct provinces ; but , great as was Salmon 's reputation as a mathematician , it was probably equalled in later years by his fams as a theologian .
His masterly " " Introduction to the New Testament\ldquo ; is probably the most powerful polemic in the English language against the Tubingen school of critics .
For the " " Dictionary of Christian Biography\ldquo ; he wrote many of the most important articles , chiefly on the Christian writers of the second century , a period of which he made himself complete master .
As lately as 1897 he published a powerful essay on the critic.ism of the tsxt of the New Testament .
Although he was never offered a Bishopric , no man has commanded such influence in the Church of Irelahd since Disestablishment as did Dr. Salmon .
In politics he was a strong Conservative .
The Disestablishment of the Church of Ireland , the reconstruction of its finances , and the revision of its formularies brought new demands upon Dr. Salmon .
The Bishop of Derry said in the memorial sermon preached in the Chapel of Trinity College\mdash ; " " In our synods he was a most formidable debater , a most persuasive advocate .
If the true function of eloquence be to win an audience , he was among the greatest speakers I ever heard ; nor do I for a moment believe that his artless methods were unconscious , or wanting in the highest art And again In the Councils of the Disestablished Church with what confidence they followed him .
When old age had reduced his voice almost to a whisper , how the whole Synod hushed itself , and settled down to catch every word he murmured .
There was a homage more exquisite than applause could give ; admiration was in it , and desire for that lowoiced wisdom but there was also the gratitude of men who owed him much While he had a fairly free hand in the control of the Divinity School , the loss of his Fellowship apparently had debarred him from having any more important share in the management of the University .
This he resented , and he is said to have annoyed the members of the Board declaring in the Synod that the only difference between Junior and Senior Fellows is that the latter are the longest livers .
In 1874 he was chiefly instrumental in the origination of the Academic Council\mdash ; " " to co-operate with the Board and have a share in the regulation of the Studies , Lectures , and Examinations , and in the appointment and election of Professors By a strange irony , when he became Provost , he did everything in his power to render this Council impotent .
In 1888 , on the death of Jellett , Salmon was admitted Provost of Trinity College .
He was then in his sixty-ninth year , and he held the office longer than any Provost since the Right Hon. Hely Hutchinson , who died in 1794 .
He was also the first Provost since Hutchinson who was not a Fellow at the time of his ction .
It was no light to which he was called .
The governing body of the University of Dublin consists , as has been said , of the Provost and the seven Senior Fellows , the Provost being appointed by the Crown , and the Senior Fellows their position by virtue of , eniority .
This board transacts practically all the business of the University .
Its members hold the offices of -provost , registrar , bursar , senior Iecturer , senior dean , catechist , auditor , and senior proctor .
In addition , it not unfrequently happens that a member of the board is librarian , or that he takes part in the examination for fellowship , or in some other important examination .
There is nothing to correspond to the Cambridge syndicates , unless it be the medical school committee or the academic council , and of the former a member of the board is chairman , while at least three senior fellows and the provost have belonged to the latter since its inception , the provost being the ex officio chairmaIl .
Enough has been said to show the difficulty of Dr. Salmon 's as the head of a responsible board overloaded with duties of the most multifarious kind\mdash ; a board composed of eight men whose united ages at one time approached , if they did not exceed , the magnificent total of five hundred and eighty years .
" " There is , said Salmon , one thing worse than an incompetent Bursar , and that is an indispensable one when only one member of the board was fit to undertake the arduous office .
The period of Salmon 's Provostship was in many respects a time in the history of Trinity College .
The evils spoken of had Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
grown to a head .
The Senior Fellows were not what they had been\mdash ; men co-opted in the prime of life , who had escaped the allurements of matrimony and the seductions of great ecclesiastical positions .
They were the survivors of a set of men whose constitutions had been thoroughly tested by ths rigours of an appalling examination .
Since Dr. Salmon obtained Fellowship , the number of professorships and lectureships has been doubled .
Many of the professorships then held by Fellows or by ex-Fellows are held by Fellows no longer .
A new and most important body of men has come into existence\mdash ; the non-Fellow professors\mdash ; men hardly thought of in the days when all power and all authority was vested in the Provost and the seven Senior Fellows .
One might have anticipated that he who had done so much in founding the Academic Council , and who had felt so keenly the subordination of former positions , would have been instrumental in drawing closer together the members of the teaching staff .
It may have been that his initiative was blunted by his twenty-five years of tutorial duties .
It may have been that his duties as Provost\mdash ; for many years the one really strong man on the Board\mdash ; were so laborious that he had little time to consider matters which did not claim his immediats attention .
There can , however , be no doubt that in later years his sympathies did not lie with the development of science .
As a member of the Board of Intermediate Education , he did not take part with those who tried to foster the study of science in the secondary schools in Ireland .
Whils it may be questioned whether he did all that was possible to widen the scope of her usefulness , Trinity College must ever be grateful to her late Provost for the noble conservatism with which he defended her independence .
He willing to afford Roman Catholics every facility for religious exercises within the walls of Trinity College , but he would suffer no clerical interfsrence , whether from the Church of Ireland or from the Church of Rome .
The University which gave Sylvester the B.A. degree , which his own University refused because he would not subscribe to the Thirty-nine Articles , retains its old spirit of tolerance .
The remaining tests were swept away by the Tests Act of 1873 .
Salmon 's power and influence wers such that it was difficult , if not impossible , to carry out any change of hich he disapproved .
It is true he did not favour rendering Greek an optional subject , or admitting women to the University of Dublin .
But these changes were made in his extreme old age , when he had grown weary of prolonged cont .
He appeared to take the keenest delight in fighting a case .
However carefully prepared his opponent might be , Salmon generally found a weak part in his armour .
He would not an defect in a proposal ; he would employ the Salmon .
most fantastio and ingenious reasoning to show that under certain circumstances the plan would not work , and he would not be satisfied mtil he got the worst of ths argument ; or he would use his inimitable powers of ridicule to make the thing appear absurd .
Yet no o1te could be more direct in his conversation , in his writings , even in his funeral sermons .
Salmon 's generosity was as unbounded as it was unostentatious and disinterested .
His hospitality was splendid , and of the kindliest nature .
He shone pre-eminent in whatever company he might ) found .
His after-dinner speeches were deservedly reckoned among the chief attractions of public dinners in Ireland , and those who had the good fortune to breakfast quietly with him have not been able to forget the charm of his simplicity , of his humour , and of his kindliness .
His figure was well known in Dublin\mdash ; nearly every afternoon he might be seen wandering through the streets .
He was a great lover of music , a great chess-player , an omnivorous reader of novels .
His fund of amnsing stories was inexhaustible .
His jokes were circulated through the clubs .
Men of all classes and creeds read his theological works and talked of them .
They " " were no sooner published than the learned men of two continents acclaimed them ; and their men of letters smiled over more witty than anything since Pascal , and of a humour more benign than \ldquo ; He had no taste for metaphysics ; he despised rhetoric ; he cared little for painting or architecture , and for poetry he did not care at all .
Salmon 's constructive faculty was not remarkable when judged by the exceptionally high standard of his other brilliant gifts .
His power , for example , was immense , and it is known that in his Iater years he satisfied himself he had demolished some of the intellectual edifices he himself had raised .
He had a marvellous capacity for .
separating the grain from the chaff of a mathematical or of a theological argument , and what he retained he generally adorned .
He excelled in the use of happy illustrations of the simplest but of the most telling nature .
No less wonderful was the rapidity with which he grasped an argument and the readiness with which he replied .
A stranger in the synod hall might , during the course of a debate , have looked pityingly and half contemptuously at an ungainly and rather untidy old clergyman , ibbling hastily and without interruption on little scraps of paper .
He might have seen that the writer was no. taking notes of the speeches , but was working arithmetic , searching for primes or finding the recurring periods in their reciprocals .
He would be surprised when he saw this strange figure struggling to his feet and proceeding to talk to the synod .
His surprise would give place to astonishment Bishop of Derry , loc. cit. Obituary Noticof Fellows deceased .
and admiration when he found that Salmon had missed no point in the long debate , had assimilated everything , and was explaining his views with an incredible wealth of homely illustration , with abundant wit , and with matured common sense .
For many years Salmon was eatly attracted by the theory of numbers .
He said it almost amounted to a disease with him , and he regarded his work on it as frivolous or useless .
Having nearly completed a book on the subject , he burned it for some unknown reason .
In addition to the intrinsic fascination of the subject , he may have found that this work relieved him of boredom , or it may have served as an anodyne ; and one may hazard the suggestion that the destruction of his book was a kind of penance .
In his latest years he ceased working on the theory .
Salmon 's first paper was published in 1844 , 'On the Properties of Surfaces of the Second Degree which correspond to the Theorems of Pascal and Brianchon on Conic Sections .
' Phil. Mag ; the last of his forty-one mathematical papers was 'On Periods in the Reciprocals of Primes ' Messenger of Mathematics 1873 , pp. 49-51 ) .
The majority of his papers have reference to numerical characteristics relating to curves and surfaces , and many of these results are summarised in the great chapter " " On the Order of Restricted Systems of Equations\ldquo ; in his " " Modern Higher Algebra It would be most unfair to Salmon to judge of his contributions to mathematics by his papers alone .
He had a great dislike to the physical trouble of writing ; he modestly communicated his discoveries to friends , or reserved them for incorporation in his books , so that it is a matter of extreme difficulty to say how much is his .
Apart from the discovery of new facts , the methods employed in his books must have been of tremendous service in promoting the advance of mathematics .
His style was characterised by complete absence of pedantry and by profound common sense .
By a few words , by soms geometrical illustration , he dispensed with pages of troublesome analysis .
At times the great condensation of his diction may conceal from the casual student the width and the depth of his conclusions , but on referring to an original memoir from which hs quotes one is amazed to find that every essential point is reproduced , and that frequently soms brilliant addition has been made and left unclaimed by him .
It must not be supposed that Salmon shared the characteristic attributed to MacCullagh of shirking analysis and trusting to his great geometrical insight .
On the contrary , he seemed to revel in analysis so tedious and so intricate that it vould be distasteful to most George calculated the invariant E. Its value was given at length in the second edition , where it occupied thirteen pages , but I havs not thought it worth while to reprint so long a formula To the volume which contained this elaborate investigation , and many others involving equal skill and almost equal labour , he prefixed the words : " " To A. Cayley , Esq. , and J. J. Sylvester , Esq. , I beg to inscribe this attempt to render some of their discoveries better known , in acknowledgment of the obligations I am under , not only to their published writings , but also to their instructive correspondence It is , however , curious that the fascination of arithmetical work should have detained Salmon on calculations such as that of at a time when Boole 's great conception pushing on the mathematical world to feverish haste in new discovery .
kSalmon 's treatisss contain a lucid and comprehensivs survey of the subjects with which they deal , so that they are almost indispensable to the advanced mathematician .
They still retain a commanding positio ] ] among the best of text-books for beginners .
But there is wanting them the indescribable aroma of a great classic , and something of the suggestiveness and of the poetry .
They lead by the shortest way to the solution of each individual problem , and well did Cremona describe Salmon as " " il piu popolare de ' tpmatici in il mondo Of falmon 's original contributions to science , the most worthy of notice are his solutions of the problem of the degree of a surface ocal to a given surface ; his researches in connection with surfaces subject to given conditions , analogous to those of Chasles in plane curves ; his classification of curves of double curvature ; his conditions for repeated roots of an equation ; and his theorem of the constant anharmonic ratio of the four tangents from a point on a cuhic curve .
He was awarded a Royal edal in 1868 , and the Copley in 1889 .
He was elected into the Society in 1863 .
He received the honorary degrees of D.C.L. Oxford , 1868 ; .D .
Cambridge , 1874 urgh , 1884 ; D.Math .
Christiania , 1902 .
He was an honorary memof the Academies of Berlin , Gottingen , and Copenhagen ; a ellow of the Academy of the Lincei and of the British Academy .
C. J. J. Votices of deceased .
ISAAC ROBERTS .
1829\mdash ; 1904 .
William Roberts , the father of Isaac , was married in 1825 .
Like his father before him , William was a farmer , and he lived at Groesback , near Denbigh .
It was here that Isaac was born , January 27 , 1829 .
Though Isaac , while yet in his childhood , ceased to reside in Wales , he retained throughout his life his knowledge of the Welsh language , which he spoke and wrote fluently .
It may also be mentioned here that all his life Isaac was passionately attached to music , as well as to science .
No doubt the second purchase he made out of his savings was a microscope , but the first was a piano .
He had an excellent bass voice , and in after years became an enthusiastic practising member of the Liverpool Philharmonic Choral Society .
On Noveml ) , 1844 , Isaac Roberts was bound as an apprentice for seven years to the firm of John Johnson \amp ; Son , Builders and Lime Bnrners in Liverpool\mdash ; a firm established sixty years previously , with a reputation for good building and prosperity .
Mr. Peter Robinson ( the father of Isaac Roberts ' future partner ) had been with that firm for 30 years , and in 1847 was admitted a partner , so that Roberts completed his apprenticeship with the new firm of Johnson\amp ; Robinson .
From serving an apprenticeship with freemen , Roberts became a freeman of the City of Liverpool .
He was remarkable for his industry and desire for information , and was oited as an example for ition by the other apprentices .
He was by nature a student , and did not care for many of the usual amusements of young people .
His evenings were passed at the school of the Mechanics ' Institute in Liverpool .
For his master , Peter Bobinson , Roberts had a deep admiration , and tried to imitate his many excellences .
Peter Robinson died in 1855 , and Roberts was then made manager of the of the firm .
In 1856 the other partner , John Johnson , died , and Roberts was engaged to wind up the contracts and affairs of the firm .
In 1859 Robcrts began business in a small way as a hardworking builder in Liverpool , and was very persevering , and in 1862 Mr. J. J. Robinson , son of Peter Robinson , joined him as partnsr , and the firm became Roberts \amp ; Robinson .
It is to this partner , the lifelong intimate friend of Roberts , that I am indebted for these particulars .
The first contract of the firm was the construction of the Birkenhead Water Works , situate on Flaybrick Hill , Cheshire , and this was followed by an important undertaking for the Liverpool Gas Company .
The contractor for the erection of the Lime Street Station Hotel , at Liverpool , belonging to the London and North-Western Railway Company entrusted the carrying out of the brickwork and mason 's work to Isaac Messrs. Roberts \amp ; Robinson .
After a successful career as builders for a quarter of a century , the firm gave up business in 1888 , and thus left Isaac Roberts in possession both of the means to provide himself with the best scientific instruments and the leisure to devote himself to their employment .
Some years before the name of Dr. Roberts became known to the scientific world , the present writer remembers hearing the late Earl of Rosse remark on the many instances he knew of men who , after a successful business career as builders , devoted a well-earned retirement to practical astronomy .
It is interesting to note that yet another builder , of whom Lord Rosse had never heard , was destined to develop and carry onwards to an unanticipated importance Lord Rosse 's own brilliant discovery of spiral nebulae .
Though when at business Isaac Roberts worked with unremitting diligence and pains , he still found time to supplement an education which , in his earlier years , had been somewhat scanty .
The result was that he became a recognised master of his craft as a builder .
Roberts was , indeed , so much esteemed by his associates that his aid was frequently invoked as arbitrator in disputes where technical matters in building were involved .
At the commencement of his scientific work Roberts devoted himself principally to geology .
The first paper he wrote was in 1869 on the Wells and Water of Liverpool , and in the following year he became a Fellow of the Royal Geological Society .
In 1878 he read a paper at the British Association on the Filtration of Water through Triassic Sandstone , and it was this year that he commenced his career as a practical astronomer .
As to the astronomical equipment with which Dr. Roberts accomplished his work , reference may be made to the interesting account given by Mr. W. S. Franks in " " The Observatory for August , 1904 .
Roberts commenced practical observation in 1878 with a 7-inch refractor by Cooke , which was erected at his residence , 26 , Rock Park , Rock Ferry\mdash ; the same home , it may be noted , which Nathaniel Hawthorn occupied when American Consul at Liverpool .
In 1882 he moved his residence to Kennessee , Iaghull , near Liverpool .
In 1883 Roberts tells us that he made experiments in photographing stars with ordinary portrait lenses , varying in aperture between Sths of an inch and 5 inches .
The most efficient of these was one of 2 inches aperture by Lerebours\amp ; Secretan , and he used this as a standard for comparison with the others .
The comparisons were made by attaching the cameras to the declination axis of the 7-inch refractor , and taking simultaneous photographs of well-known groups of stars under precisely similar conditions .
Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
But the great step which he made may be given in his own words Monthly Notices\ldquo ; of the Royal Astronomical Society , January , 1886):\mdash ; " " The result of these experiments , and comparison with Mr. Common 's great photograph of the nebula in Orion , was that I gave Sir Howard Grubb an order to make me a 20-inch silver-onglass reflector , with 100 inches focal length , the photographs to be taken directly in the focus of the mirror , to obviate any loss of light by a second reflection , the photographic telescope to be mounted on the same declination axis as ths 7-inch refractor , one being the counterpoise to the other In a foot-note he adds that\mdash ; " " To Dr. Huggins is due the credit for devising this most ingenious , simple and useful mode of mounting a reflector and refractor side by side ; and the skill of Sir Howard Grubb is well shown in the arrangements of the instrument to perform the objects intended Mr. Franks records that " " over a year was spent by Dr. Roberts in minor alterations and perfecting details before the instrument could be considered good enough to perform satisfactorily the work which was expected of it .
From that day to this\mdash ; with the exception that a Calver mirror was substituted for the Grubb in 1888 and a 5-inch Cooke camera added in 1895\mdash ; the equipment remains the same as originally planned by Dr. Roberts , a fact which speaks for itself as to the patient forethought bestowed upon this pioneer instrument , which has now become historically famous One circumstance , however , it would ill become the present writer not to record .
Before ordering the 20-inch telescope from Grubb , Dr. Roberts had obtained an 18-inch instrument from the same maker .
The results were so encouraging that he decided to enlarge the equipment on the same principle as above mentioned .
The 18-inch telescope thus displaced , a most beautiful instrument , was then , with characteristic generosity , presented by Dr. Roberts to the observatory of Dunsink , co .
Dublin .
As to the relative merits of reflectors and refractors for oelestial photographic , there has been much cQntroversy , and in this controversy Roberts , as might naturally be expected from his great success , vigorously upheld the claims of the reflectors .
As Mr. Franks tells us , " " Roberts was one of the earliest and most consistent advocates of the merits of the reflector for celestial photography , and lived to see his predilection confirmed in quarters where there had previously been a strong prejudice for refractors .
His views on the relative performance of camera lenses are well known , but it is not so well known that he had a very perfect star-camera fixed on the tube of the 20-inoh reflector , with which all objects were photographed in duplicate , during the last nine years ; and it was the unvarying superiority of the I.saac Ilobert refleotor plates that made him so sceptical as to much that was called nebulosity on camera plates by other observers The climatic conditions of Maghull did not admit of as many clear nights as an enthusiastic astronomer would desire ; accordingly Roberts , after freedom from the cares of business had rendered a change of rssidence possible , determined to remove his observatory to some more favoured locality .
He took characteristic pains to make his change effectual .
He personally investigated many sites .
He even went out to the West Indies to see whether he could there obtain the conditions that seemed to him best .
Finally he decided to establish his ) tory on Crowborough Hill , Sussex , and , as the event proved , no choice could have been more judicious .
Crowborough the astronomical equipment was transferred in 1890 , and there , with unremitting diligence , the work was carried on , so that thousands of negatives have been taken and carefully preserved as the result .
Starfield , as his house at Crowl ) orough was called , was an ideal home for an astronomer .
At an ence of 800 feet , it commands a superb view over the surrounding country .
The observatory was in communication with the commodious residence , and sitllated in a beautiful garden .
To this garden Dr. Roberts devoted much care and attention .
The visitor to Starfield could not fail to be impressed by the wonderful gallery of astronomical photographs there displayed .
The plates of comets , of star clusters , and , above all , of nebulae , judiciously selected from the thousands available , formed a magnificent ition on the walls .
The astronomical work of Dr. Roberts at Crowborough was carried out with systematic thoroughness .
The time tables , according to which the day was passed , to each hour its allotted task .
Some hours of the morning and some of the afternoon were always set apart for astronomical work .
In the early years of his career at Iaghull he was himself the capable photographer of the heavens .
At Crowborough he was so fortunate as to secure the skilful services of .
W. S. Franks as his practical photographer , and it was by the diligence of .
Franks , under the incessa1lt ision and guidance of Dr. Roberts , that the wonderful collection of Crowborough photographs has been obtained .
How diligently the work was carried on from year to year will , perhaps , bs best seen by looking at the successive Annual Reports of the Council of the Royal Astronomical Society .
To these lleports Dr. Roberts contributed each year an of the work done in his observatory during the preceding year .
Of these reports there are twelve .
The last but one , dated February , 1903 , gives a list of ) seventy nebulae which had ) photographed duri11g 1902 .
The Votices of Fellows decensed .
photographs were take1l with the 20-inch mirror , which had been recently -silvered , and the length of exposure was generally hours .
In this year , as in others , the principal comets which appeared were also photographed .
The last of these notable lists , dated February , 1904 , contains a magnificent record of work .
There are upwards of ninety entries .
The great majority of the objects photographed are nebulae , as in the former lists , but a good many clusters , or parts of the milky way , are included , occasionally some other objects , such as the famous star ( 1830 ) Groombridge , and the comet of Borelly , in 1903 .
In the words of Roberts himself he " " has contributed to the Royal Astronomical Society and to ' Knowledge , ' between the years 1886 and 1903 , upwards of 150 photographs taken with his 20-inch reflector , each of which showed structural and other details of objects in the sky , that were previously unknown to astronomers The last words make a great claim , but its complete justice will be admitted .
Juch labour was devoted by Dr. Roberts to the design and con truction of an instrument which he called the Pantograver .
The object of this instrument was to transfer , as it were , the images of stars , both in size and position , from a perishable gelatine film to an imperishable record , by engraving them on a copper plate .
But this machine originated in the early years of Dr. Roberts ' astronomical work , and before the time when he had fortunately decided to devote himself to the photography of nebulae .
It was at first Dr. Roberts ' intention to prepare a photographic chart of the heavens on a scale twice the size of Argilander 's , and with an exposure of 15 minutes for each plate , and several specimen plates were sent to the Royal Astronomical Society in 1886 .
After the international scheme had been formed by the Convention in Paris for the preparation of the photographic chart of the heavens on a vast scale , Roberts saw that his energies could be most effectively employed in some other direction than that of charting stars , and thus the Pantograver has had but little relation to his later work .
For a description of this machine reference may be made to his paper 'On an instrument for measuring the positions and magnitudes of stars in photographs , and for engraving them upon metal plates , with illustrations of the method of using the instrument .
' " " Monthly Notices vol. xlix .
, p. 5 .
The Gold Medal of the Royal Astronomical Society was awarded to Dr. Isaac Roberts in 1895 for his photographs of star clusters and nebulae .
The address on the presentation of the medal was delivered by the President , Sir W. de W. Abney , whose profound acquaintance with the photographic arts , made the occasion one of exceptional interest .
In this address Sir W. Abney says : Isauc Roberts .
" " The photographs by Common of the great ebula in Orion were epoch-making in astronomical photography , and worthily was the medal bestowed on him for his classic work , and it is no disparagement of the labours of the present recipient ( Roberts ) if one traces in them the mark of what Common had shown to be possibilities Perhaps the most famous of Dr. Roberts ' photographs was that of the great nebula in Andromeda .
This plate it was which first fully illustrated the capabilities of photography for the representation of nebulae .
Even after the lapse of 15 years it may still be doubted whether any more beautiful representation of any celestial object has ever been produced .
Of this Sir W. Abney said in the address just referred " " In December , 1886 , Roberts produced a photograph of the ) in Orion with his 20-inch reflector with an exposure of 15 minutes , and almost exactly 10 years after he produced a photograph of the same object with an exposure of 81 minutes , and introduced us to nebulosities in the surrounding parts which were ullsuspected before . . .
little afterwards he produced recently published photograph of the great nebula in Andromeda , giving an exposure of 4 hours to the plate .
In this prolonged exposure we have an example of a triumph of patience and of instrumental perfection , though these qualities are exhibited in other instances as well .
This beautiful object is depicted with its rings of nebulosity in great perfection , and we can correct the eye observations which had previously been made upon it .
The stars in the field are beautifully sharp and round , showing that the eye as well as the instrument had to be employed throughout that long exposure to correct changes in the position of the star due to atmospheric refraction , and variation in the rate of clock-driving.\ldquo ; Notwithstanding all his later successes with the spiral nebulae , Roberts always considcred the Andromeda picture as his most notable achievement .
In the fine portrait of him which was executed shortly before his death by his wife 's sister , the favourite pupil of Rosa Bonheur , Roberts is represented resting in an arm-chair , and holding in his hand one of his memorable photographs .
The plate which he chose was that of the great nebula in Andromeda , taken 15 years before .
With consummate skill the artist has reproduced in an oil much of the delicacy and beauty which give that pictnre its charm .
In 1896 Dr. Roberts was one of the party who went to Vadso in the steamship " " Norse King\ldquo ; to observe the total eclipse of tlJat year .
The eclipse itself was disappointing , but the circumstance deserves ecord from the fact that among those on board was Mademoiselle Dorothea Klumpke , D.Sc .
, of Paris Observatory , herself an earnest and distinguished worker in astronomical science .
The acquaintance thus bitvnry Notices of ellows deceased .
begun had a happy issue .
In 1901 Roberts married for the second time , and in this union lvith his fellolv-traveller on the " " Norse King\ldquo ; Isaac Roberts found not only domestic affection , but also the happiness of sympathetic -operation in his noble work .
His first wife , to whom he had been married in 1875 , was Ellen Anne , daughter of Mr. Anthony Cartmel .
The chief public testimony to the value of Dr. Roberts ' work is found in the facts that in 1890 he became a Fellow of the Royal Society , that in 1892 he received the honorary degree of D.Sc .
from the UIIiversity of Dublin on ths occasion of its tercentenary , and that , as already meniioned , he received the gold medal of the Royal Astronomical Society in 1895 .
When he left Liverpool for Crowborough he was prssented with an address signed by the Mayor of Liverpool , the leading citizens , and many cientffic men .
connected with the University College in that city .
In Crowborough he was highly respected for his vigorous independence of thought .
Though he did not come prominsntly before the public as a politician , he held exceedingly strong views on many public questions .
He was an enthusiastic Free Trader , and a sturdy opponent of the recent Education Acts .
His death took place quite suddenly on July 17 , 1904 .
He had been working at his negatives on the very last day of his life , only a few days er he had attended the funeral of his old and valued astronomicaI friend , Captain Noble .
His estate of he bequeathed for the provision of annuities to his widow and other relatives , the capital ultimately to go to the Universities of Liverpool and Wales for the foundation of scholarships .
Roberts ' photographs will gather increased value as time advances .
The changes in the nebulae , if changes there be , can only be certainly ascertained by the ison of photographs separated by long , perhaps very long , intervals of time .
These magnificent plates have been bequeathed by Dr. Roberts to his widow , Dorothea Isaac Roberts .
In her most capable hands onomsrs know that nothing will be omitted which zeal for the advance of astronomy and affectionate reverence for the memory of the dead can suggest .
The best memorial of Isaac Roberts is to be found in his two magnificent volumes of ' Celestial Photographs which he generously distributed widely among astronomers .
We conclude with an extract from the preface to Roberts ' first volume in 1893 , which he has himself quoted from in the preface to his later volume in 1899 .
The dignity of the lvords illustrates ths character of the man as well as the importance of his work\mdash ; " " It has been my aim , in publishing the photographs and descriptive matter contained in the following pages , to place data in the hands of Lieut.-Gen .
C. astronomers for the study of astronomical phenomena , which have been obtained by the aid of mechanical , manipulative , and chemical processes of the highest order at present attainable , and that such data should be , as regards the photographs , free from all personal errors .
" " The photographs portray portions of the starry heavens in a form at all times available for study , and identically as they appear to an observer aided by a powerful telescope and clear sky for observing .
" " Absent are the atmospheric tremors , the cold observatory , the terrupting clouds , the straining of the eyes , the numbing of the limbs , the errors in recording observations , and the many hardships incurred by our predecessors of glorious memory in their attempts to see and fathom the illimitable beyond .
" " I commend the observations and the photographs herein to astronomers and students of the new astronomy S. B. LIEUT.-GEN .
C. A. McMAHON .
1830\mdash ; 1904 .
LIEUT . .
CHARLES ALEXANDER McMAHON , who died on February 21 , 1904 , at his residence in Nevern Square , London , was born at Highgate on the of March , 1830 .
By desoent he was Irish , for he derived his name from a clan living in the North of Ireland , whose chief bore the title " " Maghghamhna\ldquo ; ( a bear ) , which became McMahon in the unpractised mouths of the seventeenth century English settlers .
His grandfather took Orders in the Anglo-Irish Church , and married an English wife , but afterwards became entangled with the United Irishmen , and found it prudent to quit the country in the summer of 1797 .
Seeking refuge in France , he exchanged the gown for the sword , and attained the rank of captain in the Irish Legion .
But his elder son Alexander , though he joined his father in France in 1802 , and was educated at St. Cyr , returned to England in 1806 , obtained a cadetship in the East India Company 's Service , and landed at Calcutta on his sixteenth birthday .
On reaching the rank of oaptain , he retired , and spent the rest of his Iife in England , where he married Miss Ann Mansell , daughter of a major in the British Army .
Notices of f'ellows jeased .
Their son Charles Alexander followed his father 's steps , and early in 1847 obtainsd a commission in the 39th Madras Native Infantry .
In this regiment he served for eight years , and was then transferred to the Madras Staff Corps , and from that , early in 1856 , to the Punjab Commission .
On this he rose to be a Commissioner , holding that office for about 14 years , and retired in 1885 , his last appointment being the Commissionership of Lahore .
By that time he had become a colonel in the Army , but after his return to England he rose to be major-general in 1888 , and lieutenant-general in 1892 .
One notable episode in his Indian career illustrated his readiness and courage as a soldier , another his ability as ajudge .
In 1857 , at the outbreak of the Mutiny , McMahon , then a lieutenant and Assistant Commissioner of Sialkot , was placed , by the illness of his superior , in charge of a large district , including a cantonment .
Directly afterwards , on July 9 , the native troops rose , murdered some Europeans , among them four of their officers , and , after the place , decamped to join the rebels .
IcMahon managed to send off a hurried note by a trustworthy trooper to Nicholson , who was leading a moveable column to Delhi , which fortunately reached him at Amritsar .
Changing his line of march , he met and destroyed the main body of mutineers at Trimmoo Ghat , and restored order at Sialkot so completely that a few days later McMahon led a small force to the frontier of Kashmir , and obtained the surrender of some hundred and forty refugee rebels , most of whom were duly executed .
The other instance was in 1865 , when , as Deputy Commissioner of Delhi , he had to decide a very important civil suit against the Government of India , lvhich had been remitted by the Privy Council for triaI on its merits .
The plaintiffs claimed possession of the Pergannah of Badshah-Pur , with the mesns profits for about fifty years ; the sum involved being estimated at a million and a-haIf pounds sterling .
The issues were intricate , and it is no small testimony to McMahon 's judicial powers that his decision was upheld , on appeal , first by the Superior Courts of the Punjaub , and then by the Privy Council in England .
He began the serious study of geology and petrology in 1871 , when Commissioner of Hissar , and six years later his first important paper , a description of the Blaini Group and the central gneiss of the Simla Himalayas , was published in the ' Records of the GeologicaI Survey of India\ldquo ; ( Vol. X ) .
He speaks , in this , of having examined more than two hundred thin slices of rocks which , presumably , had been made with his own hands .
It was followed by ' Notes of a Tour through Hangrang and Spiti , ' in which he describes certain schists , the central gneiss and granite , asserting the last to be indubitably an eruptive rock , and makes some interesting remarks on glacial Lieut.-Gen .
C. A. McMahon .
and the rate of erosion of the Spiti valley .
Returning home on furlough , the Lieutenant-Colonel , as he had then become , showed his thoroughness and zeal for knowledge by entering as a student at the Royal School of Mines , where he attended the Iectures of ProfsHuxley , Judd , and Warington Smyth .
On going back to India he applied himself with increased vigour to the problems which , as we can see from the writings just mentioned , had already engaged his attention , and the results of his work are embodied in twenty-one papers published in the " " Records of the Geological Survey of India About nine of them are .
careful descriptions of the microscopic structure of various rocks , such as basalts from Bombay and Aden , or traps from Darang , Mandi , and near .
but themajority are petrological , where the microscope is made subservient to the study of large questions , raised by his work in the mountain region about Dalhousie and Simla .
He states in a paper on the geology of the former , published in Vol. of the " " Records that he had independently reached the conclusion for which a few English geologists were then ( about contending : that , as a general rule , the extent of metamorphism affords an indication of the relative ageof anoient rocks ; the apparent exceptions , so far as he had seen , being due to faulting .
In a later paper , 'On the Microscopic Structure of the Dalhousie Rocks , ' he advances a step farther , by proving the axial gneiss of the Dhuladhar range to possess the characteristics of an igneous rock , adding that he now felt obliged to substitute the term " " gneissose granite\ldquo ; for " " granitoid gneiss\ldquo ; and its equivalent " " central gneiss Writing in the seventeenth volume ( 1884 ) on the microscopic structure of some Himalayan granites and gneissose granites , he shows the foliation in these rocks to be a result of fluxion in a viscid mass which is-being forced through a fissure in older masses .
In later papers he additional evidence to support this conclusion , which he expresses more fully in two communications to the " " Geological Magazine\ldquo ; for 1887 , namely , that foliation and banding in holocrystalline rocks are often the result of fluxional movement while in a viscid or even partly crystallized state ; a conclusion lvhich he was the first to demonstrate , and one very valuable at that time as a corrective to exaggerated views of the effect of pressure as an agent of metamorphism .
On returning to England , after thirty-eight years ' service , McMahoit settled down with his family in Nevern Square , to devote his leisure to his favourite studies .
Among its fruits were four papers which appeared in the " " Mineralogical Magazine\ldquo ; ( one being an importallt investigation of the analysis of rock-making erals ) , frequent contributions to the " " Geological Magazine\ldquo ; six Obituuxry Notices of deceajse published in the " " Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society Of these , two discuss difficult questions about the nature and relations of the crystalline rocks of the Lizard ; two deal with the neighbourhood of Dartmoor ; and the other two , in which his son , Capt. A. H. McMahon , co-operated , are further contributions to Indian geology .
He was President of the Geologists ' Association in 1894-5 , of the Geological Section of the British Association in 1902 , and served more than once on the Council of the Geological Society , of which he was elected a Fellow in 1878 .
He was awarded the Lyell Medal of that Society in 1899 , and in the previous year was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society .
At scientific meetings he was an effective contributor to dlscussion , for he never rose unless he had something to say worth hearing , and was terse and lucid in expression .
He exemplified the best results of a military and a judicial training , and united an inflexible integrity to great personal amiability .
These qualities , intellectual and moral , made him always a most valuable member of any committee or council .
From having worked with him in the study and in the field , for we co-operated in a paper on the Lizard rocks , I can testify to his thoroughness of work , his clearness of thought , and his soundness of judgment .
Thus , though no heat of dsbate ever ruffled his uniform courtesy , he was a formidable antagonist ; this he proved himself on more than one occasion , and perhaps never more than in his last contribution to the " " Geological Magazine which , though published only three months before his death , showed all his wonted grasp of his subject and power of polished satire .
Yet he was then hopelessly ill and almost blind , for his eyesight began to fail him in the spring of 1902 , and this was followed by a general decline in health , which ended in death on February 21 , 1904 .
He was twice married : in 1857 to Miss Elizabeth Head , who died in the autumn of 1866 ; of their children , two sons , the elder being Lieutenant-Colonel Arthur Henry McMahon , C.S.I. , C.I.E. , who inherits his father 's love of geology , and one daughter , are living .
In 1868 he married Miss Charlotte Emily Dorling , who survives him , together with a son and a daughter , and whom I have to thank for much information about my friend 's family history .
T. G. B. ROBERT McLACHLAN .
1837\mdash ; 1904 .
ROBERT MCLACHLAN was the son of Hugh McLachlan , a native of Greenock , who in early life settled in London , and was eminently successful as a chronometer maker .
He resided at first near the River\mdash ; but the waters of the St. Katherine 's Dock now flow over the site\mdash ; and afterwards at 17 , Upper East Smithfield , where he died in 1855 .
Robert McLachlan , one of five children\mdash ; three brothers and two sisters\mdash ; was born at the Smithfield home on the 10th April , 1837 .
During the latter part of his life Hugh McLachlan had a small farm or country house in Hainault Forest , where his children spent most of their early days and were able to enjoy a country life , and it was probably there that Robert McLachlan first turned his thoughts to the study of nature .
Very little is known as to his school life beyond the fact that he was cated at Ilford , probably in a private school .
He had a good knowledge of English , French and German , and was accurate in his style of writing , avoiding all redundancy of expression .
In early life he contemplated marriage , but the engagement was broken off , and soon after , in 1855 , he for a voyage to New South Wales and Shanghai ; during his journey he collected plants assiduously , and his journal , as also the collections he then formed , are still in existence , the species determined and bearing their specific names .
This , it is believed , was carried out with the assistance of the late Robert Brown , the well-known botanist and keeper of the Botanical Department of the British Museum .
This early love for botany had to give way largely in later life to his entomologicai studies ; but McLachlan always retainsd an affection for botanical science and had a good knowledge of the British flora .
He delighted in his small garden and greenhouse at Lewishnm , where he gre many rare or unusual plants obtained from horticultural frisnds .
After his return from the voyage McLachlan resided with his mother at Hill , and it was here that his earliest papers on Lepidoptera and Neuroptera were written .
At first , as with most young people , he seems to have devoted himself to Lspidoptera , in the study of which he doubtless received much help from his friends Stainton , Knaggs Douglas , and Rye\mdash ; very soon , however , he was stimulated by the writings of Dr. Hagen , to begin a special study of the group which Obituary Notices of deceased .
was to provide the chief interest of his life , : the Neuroptera ( in the broad ssnse ) .
His first paper on these insects , including a description of a new British species , appeared in the " " Entomologist 's Annual\ldquo ; .
here he commends the study of the Phryganidoe to his fellow Lepidopterists " " as tending to rectify those habits of careless and superficial examination which have gained for us the reputation of being the least scientific among Entomologists He certainly acted up to his own recommendation , for throughout his writings , the accurate description of minute structure is a principal characteristic .
The papsrs which had aroused McLachlan 's enthusiasm for the Neuroptera were also publisl ) by Dr. Hagen in the " " Entomologist 's Annual and a frequent correspondence was kept up between the two anthors until the death of the latter in 1893 .
In the Obituary Notice which McLachlan wrote of Dr. Hagen in the " " Entomologist 's Monthly Magazine he says:\mdash ; " " I was most emphatically his pupil .
When he was in London engaged on the compilation of his Bibliotheca I met him for the first time .
He took the opportunity of making an examination of the various collections of Neuroptera , and one result was a series of synopses of the British species ( all excepting Perlidoe ) , published in the " " Entomologist 's Annuals\ldquo ; for several years .
That on Phryganidoe ( 1859-61 ) attracted my attention and induced me to study these insects Befors 1870 , McLachlan had published monographs of most of the families of British Neuroptera and Pseudoneuroptera with the exception of the Odonata : , the Ephemeridoe and the Perlidoe .
The first of these had , he considered , been satisfactorily dealt with by de Selys Longchamps and Hagen .
The second , that " " most difficult family to use his own words , he left to his friend A. E. Eaton ; and the third , he hoped , writing in 1868 , ' to place on the same footing as the groups now finished a hope destined to be unfulfilled .
About this time he set to work in earnest to collect materials for his " " Monographic Eevision and Synopsis of the Trichoptera of the European Fauna This , the chisf work of his life-time , appeared at intervals from 1874 to 1880 , and represents an immense amount of careful investigation and diagnosis .
It is illustrated by fifty-nine plates of structural detail , chiefly wing neuration and gsnital arma- tures ; the figures were prepared from his own drawings made under che camera lucida , in numbers amoumting to nearly 2,000 .
The strain of all this minute and careful work was excessive , and his eyesight never entirely recovered in the preface are to be found some of the very few remarks he made on the subject of evolution , and he there points out the great value of the structure of the secondary sexual appendages in affording specific characteristics .
Robert McLachlan .
In addition to the above-mentioned works , papers from his pen on Exotic and British Neuroptera and other groups are to be found scattered throughout contemporary entomological literature .
The collection of Neuroptera which he formed , probably one of the largest known , is , of course , specially interesting as illustrating his various ritings ; he once contemplated making over his collections by deed of gift to the British Museum ( Natural History ) , but no deed as executed , and at his death the unsigned draft was found amongst his papers .
His collection of British Lepidoptera is also an extensive one , and contains many species , now rare or extinct in Britain , which were easily obtainable in his collecting days .
Ons of his principal interests and the well nigh absorbing enthusiasm of his later years was the conduct of the " " 's Monthly Magazine the interests of which journal he guarded with the utmost zeal , acting as an editor from its commencement in 1864 , and becoming proprietor after the death of H. T. Stainton , in 1902 .
During the most active part of his career McLachlan frequently travelled on the Continent , and kept up an extensive correspondence with Continental and Americ.an entomologists .
How greatly his was appreciated outside his own country is indicated by the numerous honorary positions which he held in foreign Societies .
He was a Fellow of most of our English Scientific Societies , and took an active interest in many of them .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1877 , and was appointed by the Council as a Member of the " " Committee to Superintend the Printing of the Catalogue of Scientific Papers when it was constituted in December , 1899 , and he read the proofs of Vols. IX , X , XI , and XII , paying attention to the papers on entomology .
He was also a Member of the Evolution Committee to which he was appointed in December , 1898 .
In the affairs of the Entomological Society of London he took very prominent part .
He was Secretary from 1868 to 1872 , Treasurer from 1873 to 1875 , and again from 1891 to the time of his death .
He was Presiden for the years 1885-6 , a time which the Society obtained its charter of incorporation , and his name appears on the document as the first President under the new order , John Obadiah Westwood being appointed as Honorary Life President .
The Catalogue of the Society 's library also owes much to his exertions .
He was a very constant attendant at the IsIeetings , and expressed his opinions on most of the subjscts brought for discussion .
Although a convinced evolutionist he rarely entered into lengthy in these matters ; looking upon many of the views expressed in con370 Obituary Notices of deceased .
troversy on the subject as too theoretical , he preferred to devote himself to work of a more practical kind .
At one time he attended the Meetings of the Linnean Society with considerable regularity , and served on its Council .
He was also present at most of the gatherings of the British Association , of which he was a Member .
The Boyal Horticultural Society was another body in which he took an active interest , serving for years on its Scientific Committee .
All this active work was in large part abandoned during the last few years of his life .
He does not appear to have been at any time actually engaged in business , but was for some years nominally a shipbroker , acting for a single ship the Canaan , of which vessel he , with some of his relatives , was a part owner .
For a short time he had an office in the City , and until quite lately used almost daily to visit " " the Jerusalem\ldquo ; in order to meet his old friends .
The death of his two nephews , W. J. and Hugh Wilson , one of whom for some years lived with him , was a very heavy blow , and one from which it is believed he never recovered .
For several years McLachlan had suffered more or less from insomnia , causing him a good deal of anxiety , and rendering necessary the employment of special treatment ; it was not , however , until year that he showed any actual of power , but it then became evident to all his friends that he was gradually becoming weaker .
Up to a few weeks of his death he was able to discuss matters connected with the Entomological Society and the " " Entomologist 's Monthly Magazine\ldquo ; with more or less clearness .
About a fortnight before he died he had a paralytic seizure , and complete consciousness never returnsd .
The following is a quotation from aletter written to a friend during his last illness : " " Unfortunately , with the general health the power of work gradually lessened , to my great grief ; I can only look back and hope I may have done something that is useful to the present and future generations of Neuropterists E. S. SIR CLEMENT LE NEVER FOSTER .
1841\mdash ; 1904 .
CLEMENT LE NEVER FOSTER was the second son of the late Mr. Peter Le Never Foster , who , from 1853 to 1879 , acted as Secretary to the Society of Arts .
Peter Le Never Foster , who was educated at Norwich Grammar School and Trinity Hall , Cambridge , practised as a conveyancing barrister from 1836 to 1853 , and during this period took a very active interest in the work of the Society of Arts\mdash ; especially in the development of the infant art of photography , and in the movements which led to the inception of the Great International Exhibition of 1851 .
Peter Le Never Foster was thus specially prepared and qualified to undertake the work of Secretary to the Society , a post to which he was appointed in 1853 , and of which he discharged the important duties for more than a quarter of a century .
Clement Le Never Foster 's mother was Georgiana Elizabeth , a daughter of the Rev. Clement Chevallier , through whom he was related to Lord Kitchener .
The subject of this notice was born at Camberwell on hIarch 23 , 1841 , and his early education was obtained at the Collegiate School in that suburb .
From the age of 12 to 16 , however , he continued his studies at the Colle'ge Communal of Boulogne-sur-Mer , taking his degree of Bachelor of Science in the Univer@ity of France in 1857 .
To this education abroad may perhaps be ascribed the remarkable abilities as a linguist which Clement Le Never Foster exhibited in after-life\mdash ; abilities which proved of such great service to him in his subsequent career .
Entering the School of Mines in 1857 , when hs was only 16 years of age , he obtained the Associateship in Mining , Metallurgy and Geology , winning also the Duke of Cornwall 's Scholarship and the Edward-Forbes Medal and Prize .
On leaving the London School of Mines , Clement Le Never Foster spent a session at the famous bIining School of Freiberg , in Saxony , and then visited the chief mining centres of Germany and Hungary .
In 1860 Clement Le Never Foster received from Sir Roderick Murchison an appointment on the Geological Survey of England and Wales , and for five years was engaged in mapping the Carboniferous rocks of Derbyshire and Yorkshire and the WeaIden beds of Kent and Sussex .
It was while working in this last-mentioned district that Le Never Foster was able to make a very noteworthy contribution to geological science in the memoir , published in conjunction with a colleague upon the Geological Survey\mdash ; the late William Topley\mdash ; " " On the Superficial Deposits of the Valley of the Medway , with Remarks Obituary es of Fellows deceased .
on the Denudation of the Weald This memoir appeared in the twenty-first volums of the " " Quarterly of the Geological Society The peculiar and seemingly anomalous system of drainage in the Wealdsn district of the south-east of England\mdash ; where the rivers , instead of following what would appear to be their natural course from west to east into the North Sea , cut their way through narrow gorges in the North and outh Downs and flow north and south into the Thamss and the English Channel respectively\mdash ; had long attracted the attention of geologists .
To account for the phenomenon , Hopkins and others had maintained that the longitudinal fold of the Weald must have been accompanied by a series of transverse fractures , along which the rivers had eventually cut their courses .
Murchison and Lyell maintained , however , that the main portion of the denudation of the Wealden anticlinal could only have been effected by marine agency .
The publication in 1862 of Jukes ' luminous memoir " " On the River Valleys of the South of Ireland\ldquo ; had thrown doubt on these earlier conclusions of geologists , and led at the same time to a clearer recognition of the part played by subaerial and river denudation , and Jukes ' views had found a zealous advocate in the late Sir Andrew Ramsay .
Le Never Foster and Topley , by a study of the nature and composition of the gravels which form terraces of the Medway Valley up to the height of over 300 feet above the existing river , were able to show that their deposition could not possibly be ascribed to marine action , but must have been due to the operation of the river and its tributaries when flowing at higher levels .
Further than this , they were able to demonstrate that all the principal rivers of the Wealden area , now running northward or southward , must have begun to flow , before the east and west valleys had originated , through the wearing away of the softer or least resistant strata by subaerial action , and that , as the level of the rivers had been gradually lowered , the remarkable gorges through the North and South Downs , by which the rivers now find their outlet , .
had been slowly cut down .
These interesting conclusions have now been universallyaccepted by geologists , and it is not too much to say that the important memoir of Le Never Foster and Topley , supporting as it did , by reference to a very well-known area , the masterly researches of Jukes in Ireland , has proved the starting point of those valuable investigations concerning the origin and development of river systems , which , commenced in this country , have been carried out with such striking resuIts by the geologists and geographers of the United States .
It is interesting to note that Le Never Foster 's share in this work had been accomplished before he reached the age of twsnty-four .
In 1865 Clement Le Never Foster resigned his post on the Geological Survey and became Lecturer to the Miners ' Association of Cornwall Sir Clement Le Never Foster .
and Devon , the forerunner of the Mining School of Camborne .
He also acted as Secretary to the loyal Cornwall Polytechnic Society .
His interest in mineralogical and mining studies at this period is indicated by papers published by him in the " " Geological Magazine\ldquo ; for 1866 upon a curious mineral vein at varne Mine , Cornwall , and upon the occurrence of molybdenite and linarite in Leicsstershire and Cornwall respectively .
Early in 1868 Never Foster joined an exploring expedition sent by the Khedive of Egypt to examine the mineral resources of the Sinaitic peninsula , and a joint memoir with Mr. H. Bauerman on the occurrence of celestine in the nummulitic limestone was one of the fruits of the expedition .
In the summer of the same year he proceeded to Venezuela to report upon the Caratal goldfield , and the results of his study were communicated to both English and foreign scientffic journals .
His appointment in the following year as Engineer to the Pestarena Gold Mining Company led to a residence of three years in the Anzasca , Northern Italy , and to the publication of a memoir upon the amalgamation of gold ores Italy , which appeared in various technical rnalS .
In 1873 , Le Never Foster returned to Cornwall as an Inspector of Mines under the Home Office , being called upon to administer the Metalliferous Mines Regulation Act , which had recently been passed .
The stringency with which he out the provisions of the Act met with much adverse criticism , and for a time hs had to encounter some unpopularity and opposition .
The best defence of his action is , however , found in the circumstance that the average death rate from mine accidents was reduced from 2 per 1,000 during the first three years of his inspectorship to per 1,000 during the last five years .
While in Cornwall , he resumed his activity in connection with the educational work among the mining population , and contributed papers on geology and mineralogy to the journals of local societies .
On the foundation of the Mineralogical Society , in 1876 , Le Never Foster , who had always taken the warmest interest in the study , became an original member and joined the Council , being elected the first Foreign Secretary of the Society .
He contributed to the first volume of the " " Mineralogical Magazine " " four papers\mdash ; two on nsw erals and mineral localities in Cornwall and Devon , and two dealing with methods of blowpipe analysis , a subject in which he always took the keenest interest , and in which he was a recognised At this same period he contributed to the " " Quarterly JourIlal of the Geological Society\ldquo ; very valuable memoirs on tlJe Haytor iron mine , on some stockworks in Cornwall , on the great flat lode south of Redruth and Camborne , and on some other tin deposits formed by the alteration of granite .
All of these memoirs were characterised by that combination of profound and Obituary Notices of deceased .
exact scientific knowledge , with practical experience in the details of mining work , by which Le Never Foster was always distinguished .
By his transfer from Cornwall lo the district of North Wales , which liook place in 1880 , Le Never Foster 's purely scientific work was for a time interrupted .
He was now called upon to advise the Government upon many questions connected with the administration of mines and upon the legislation necessary to.ameliorate the condition of the miners .
During the later portion of his official career he not only inspected the metalliferous mines of his own district , but also the ore and stonequarries all over the country\mdash ; his advice and assistance being called for in all cases where accidents occurred .
The twenty-nine annual reports which he published in comlexion with his office supply ample evidence of the zeal and intelligence with which his duties were discharged , and of the efforts in which he was constantly engaged to improve the condition and extend the educational advantages provided for the mining population .
In 1895 he was called upon to commenoe the editing of an annual report on the mineral industries of the United Kingdom , and a comparison of their output with those of other countries .
This was a work demanding great labour and powers of research , and its value was so greatly appreciated by the Government and the public generally that he was requested to continue the work after his retirement from the Inspectorship of Mines , which took place in 1901 .
In 1890 a new sphere of activity was opened to Le Never Foster , into which he threw himself lvith his accustomed energy .
Sir Warington Smyth , the first lecturer on mining and mineralogy in De la Beche 's foundation\mdash ; the School of Mines at Jermyn Street\mdash ; died suddenly in the summer of that year , and it was universally felt that no more suitable successor could be found than Clement Le Never Foster .
Great changes had taken place in the old mining school since the days when Le Never Foster had listened to the inspiring lectures of his old teacher and friend Warington Smyth .
The efforts of Huxley , .seconded as they were by his colleagues upon the Council of the School , now incorporated with the Royal College of Science , had led to the establishment of systems of practical instruction in connection with nearly all the subjects taught in the College , and in the task of arranging similar courses of practical instruction in mining Le Never Foster found abundant scope for his ensrgy , knowledge , and wide experience .
His acquaintance with the mines and mine-managers all over the country enabled him to make favourable arrangements for the students of the School of Mines to work underground , both in collieries and ore-mines , during their vacations , and thus obtain that direct experience in the details of mining work without which much of the heoretical instruction would have proved fruitless .
In every effort to improve the teaching and further the interests of the students of Sir Clement Le Never Foster .
the School , in which he had himself had such a distinguished career , Le Never Foster was indefatigable .
For fourteen years Le Never Foster carried on at the same time the instruction of the students of the School of Mines in mining and his work at the Home Office .
Nothing but wonderfully methodical habits , combined with unflagging energy and the vigorous health which had always been his great characteristics , could have enabled him to cope with the amount of work which he was able to accomplish during this period .
Although he had attained , as we have seen , the full measure of his powers at a remarkably early age , yet the manner in which he retained his capacity for work was no less noteworthy .
His personal appearance bore striking testimony to this wonderful vitality , for up to and even beyond middle age he retained the appearance of juvenility .
The freshness and alertness of his mind , too , were conspicuous up to the last , and his eagerness in all he undertook was , like his personal appearance , almost boyish .
But in 1897 an event occurred which was to cause a ssrious interruption to this energetic career , and eventually to bring it to an untimely end .
In that year an underground fire in the lead mine of Snaefell , in the Isle of Man , accompanied by a derangement of machinery by which the movements of the cage in the shaft wers controlled , led to the entombment and death of a number of miners .
Le Never Foster , in his capacity as Inspector of Mines for the district , determined to undertake a personal investigation concerning the causs of the accident .
Though he managed to descend the shaft safely at the head of an exploring party , retur11 appeared to be hopelessly cut off by the jamming of the cage .
It was very characteristic of him that , while undergoing the process of slow poisoning by the carbon monoxide which had been generated by the fire , he , nevertheless , when escape seemed utterly hopeless , had the presence of mind to take out his pocket-book and make a series of entries as to his sensations , for the benefit of medical men and chemists after his death .
These notes , were interspersed with touching messages to his wife and children , and afford a striking evidence of his devotion to science , as well as to his coolness and presence of mind in the face of danger .
Although succour arrived in time to prevent an immediately fatal termination to the accident , and he , with the other unconscious victims , was brought to the surface , Le Never Foster never recovered from the cardiac injury sustained during the process of gradual suffocation .
For nearly a year he was incapable of engaging in any work , and even when partial restoration to health took place , it was only by the exercise of the greatest care that he could continue his accustomed labours .
In 1901 he took advantage of the opportunity afforded by his attaining the age of sixty to retire from his more exacting duties Obituary Notices of fellows deceased .
at the Home Office , though he still devoted a large part of his time with undiminished zeal to the duties of his chair at the Royal School of Mines .
On April 19 , 1904 , after a short illness , from which he rallied several timss , he at last succumbed to the effects of the Snaefell accident , passing away at the age of sixty-three .
Le Never Foster 's career was a striking illustration of the value of a sound scientific training , coupled with a love of scie1ltific research , to one who devoted the greater part of his life to the service of the Government .
As the author of numerous reports , he was able to supply the responsible authorities with the most valuable information concerning mines and miners in this country .
His advice upon all questions connected with the mining profession , and on the legislation connected with it , was constantly sought by , and freely given to , his official chiefs .
He served upon various departmental committees\mdash ; on mineral statistics , on open quarries , on the slate nines of Merionethshire , and upon the explosives used in mines .
He was a member of the Royal Commissions for ths Chicago and St. Louis Exhibitions , and was , at the time of his death , a very active member of the second Royal Commission on Coal Supply .
He acted as a juror at the Inventions Exhibition in 1885 , and also at the Paris Exhibitions of 1867 , 1878 , 1889 and 1900 , as well as at some minor exhibitions .
His great public services abroad and at home were recognised by his being created a Knight of the Legion of Honour in 1889 , while the distinction of knighthood was conferred upon him in 1903 by His Majesty King Edward the Seventh .
In spite of his official and professional engagements , Le Never Foster found time to undertake a considerable amount of literary work .
In 1867 he published a translation from the Dutch of P. von Diest 's work on the tin deposits of Banca , and , 1876 , he translated the French , with the aid of Mr. W. Galloway , Callon 's ' Lectures on Mining The article on in the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica\ldquo ; was written by Le Never Foster , and , in addition to this , he found time to prepare a systematic treatise , the first on the subject published in England , on ' ' Ore and Stons Mining of which a fifth edition appeared at the time of his death ; he also issued , at the commencement of the present year , a small volume on ' Mining and Quarrying which promises to be of the greatest service to students .
His great literary activity , as well as his work as a teacher , was facilitated by the methodical manner in which he pursued his studies .
He left behind him many hundreds of volumes and portfolios filled with extracts and cuttings from books , magazines and newspapers , relating to his own pursuits .
Clement Le Never Foster early his career became associated with the University of London , as a Bachelor of Arts , and subseJoseph David Everett .
quently as a Doctor of Science .
At the time of his death he was rendering valuable service to the University as Chairman of the Board of Studies in Mining and Metallurgy , and as a member of the Board of Studies in Geology .
He was a Fellow of both the Geological and Mineralogical Societies , and rendered useful assistance to the infant Institution of Mining and Metallurgy , in which so many of his old fellow students and pupils were active members .
In 1892 the value of Le Never Foster 's labours , alike in pure and applied sciencs , was recognised by his election into the Royal Society .
Clement Le Never Foster married , in 1872 , Sophia Chevallier , the second daughter of the late Arthur F. Tompson , of Belton , Suffolk , he leaves a widow , a son ( now a mathematical master at Eton College ) , and two daughters .
J. W. J. JOSEPH DAVID EVERETT .
1831\mdash ; 1904 .
JOSEPH DAVID EVEF .
was born at Rushmere , Suffolk , in 1831 .
His younger brother , R. Lacey Everett , was for vears .
for a division of Sufiolk , and his sister is a well-known Ipswich philanthropist .
They were , on their father 's side , descended from landed gentry of Essex and Suffolk , interested in politics , and were related to Laceys and Unwins ; through their mother , Elizabeth Garwood , they were connected with persons of scientific and literary eminence ; her brother was Rector of Battersea ; Dr. Percy , , her cousin .
His home was happy , and a healthy boyhood near the sea made him very hardy and indifferent to exposurs .
At schooL he was eager and industrious he wrote verses , was a zealous member of a debating society , and invented a geometrical puzzle .
Charles Spurgeon , afterwards so famous as a preacher , was one of his later school acquaintances .
There were eight other children , and there had been losses through agricultural depression , so that he became mathematical master in a school at Totteridge , although he would have greatly preferred to go to a university .
, F.R.S. , had once been a master in this school , and about this time Thomas Chinnery ( afterwards editor of " " The Times was a master .
Sir R. Strachey , F.R.S. , and some of his brothers , J. F. Cheetham , M.P. , and Prof. Carey Foster , F.R.S. , were pupils .
Prof. Foster writes : " " Games were not then so prominent or organised a business in schools as they are now , but Everett Obituary otices of deceased .
was great at cricket , and soon became popular for his vigorous bowling .
I do n't remember very much about his teaching , except that he lent me De Morgan 's 'Arithmetic ' to read , which was quite a revelation in those days , and the fact proves that Everett had his eyes open for improved and rational methods , and did not content himself with merely following routine His father had no sympathy with his wish a university education , but the son saved money , and , by hard work , gained a scholarship , entering Glasgow Universit .
in 1854 .
He took his M.A. in 1857 with first honours in Mathematics and Natural Philosophy , and second honours in Classics and Mental Philosophy .
His intention had been to enter the ministry , but he gave up this idea , and became , for a short time , Secretary of the Meteorological Society , Edinburgh .
In 1859 he was appointed Professor of Mathematics in Windsor College , Nova Scotia , where he started astronomical and meteorological observations .
He married the sister of a college friend , the Rev. J. G. Fraser , D.D. , in 1862 .
the isolation of his position , he resigned his professorship in 1864 , and became assistant to Prof. Blackburn , of Glasgow .
He did important experimental work at this time in Lord Kelvin 's laboratory , and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh .
He was appointed to the professorship of Natural Philosophy in Queen 's College , Belfast , in 1867 , and remained there till 1897 , when he retired at the age of 66 .
During the thirty years of his professorship many persons who afterwards attained considerable eminence were among his pupils .
While at Belfast , besides his duties to students and the interests of local societies , he intere .
himself mostly in the work of Committees of the British Association and the writing and preparation of new editions of his books .
From 1898 , until he died , he lived with his wife and family at Ealing .
Here , with his daughter Alice , he translated Dr. Hovestadt 's book on Jena glass and its scientific applications .
Perhaps Optics was his favourite study .
He greatly enjoyed his life in London , as he could often meet men who had the same interests as his own , and , indeed , he almost seemed to become more vigorous , and to be in better health as he got older .
In the months preceding his death he papers at the Royal , the Physical , the aphical , and the Microscopical Societies .
He did not much care for theatres or light literature .
He went regularly to church , but his religious views were liberal .
He was of gentle temper , and never jealous .
His mind was very concentrative , and was always logical and unemotional , and free from prejudices .
There was no slackness or loose-endedness about him either physically or intellectually .
He liked to work in a cold , bare , well-ventilated room , Joseph David Everett .
without curtains , and seldom sat in an easy chair .
He practised bicycling continually from such an early date as 1868 .
In his later years he took to golf with some eagerness .
Shorthand was one of his hobbies ; he introduced a system of his own , and published several books about it , one when he was at Totteridge .
A great many scientific papers were " " referred\ldquo ; to him for criticism , more particularly after his retirement , and he was always willing to do such work .
He acted as " " expert\ldquo ; in revising mathematical and physical slips for the Royal Society 's Catalogue of Scientific Papers , his daughter having for some time before been engaged on the work under Georgs Griffith .
Prof. Everett remained Secretary of the Underground Temperature Committee of the British Association from its appointment in 1867 , and drafted twenty-two reports , which have been published .
summary of the first fifteen was published in 1882 .
In 1871 he moved the appointment of a British Association Committee " " for the Selection and Nomenclature of Dynamical and Units of which he became Secretary , and in 1873 he presented a report recommending the C.G.S. system , and introducing the names Dine and Erg .
In 1875 , under the auspices of the Physical Society , he published his book bSequently enlarged , many editions ) on Units , which was very useful in making these units well known .
This book is truly a remarkable performance .
It is difficult to think of any other author who would not have made it a dry catalogue , but Everett made it intsresting reading , although what is most characteristic about the book is its concise precision of statement .
Like everything else done by the author , evcrything is finishsd up , there are no loose ends .
The work involved in the reduction of so many quantities to their equivalents in C.G.S. mits was very great .
Every reader feels that he may depend implicitly upon the accuracy of all the results , and this is a matter of very great consequence .
It has been translated into Russian , German , French , Polish , Italian , and other languages .
In 1881 the C.G.S. units were adopted by the International Congress of Electricians at Paris .
He became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1879 .
His translation of Deschanel 's " " Physics 1869-72 , became , with additions and alterations in this and many subsequent editions , almost his own book .
It has been , and still is , a valuable text-book .
In 1901 the electrical portion of this was -written .
Other books , in addition to those already mentioned , were:\mdash ; " " An Elementary Text-Book of Physics 1877 ; " " Vibratory Motion and Sound " " Outlines of Natural ophy , \ldquo ; 1885 .
He wrolo the article on Interpolation in the Encyclopaedia Britannica 1902-3 .
From the reading of his paper

