PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
May 1 , 1879 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\#151 ; Prof. John Anderson , M.D. Rev. Miles Joseph Berkeley , F.L.S. Henry Bessemer .
Prof. Alexander Crum Brown , M.D. Walter Lawry Buller , Sc. D. , E.L.S. George Howard Darwin , M.A. Prof. Joseph D. Everett , M.A. , D.C.L. Prof. Francis Stephen Bennet Francois de Chaumont , M.D. Prof. George Downing Living , M.A. George Matthey , F.C.S. George John Romanes , M.A. , F.L.S. Arthur Schuster , Ph. D. , F.R.A.S. Prof. Harry Govier Seeley , F.L.S. ^Benjamin Williamson , M.A. Thomas Wright , M.D. , F.G.S. The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " A Magnetic Survey of the Fortieth Parallel in North America between the Atlantic Ocean and the Great Salt Lake , Utah .
" By T. E. Thorpe , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , Yorkshire College , Leeds .
Received March 25 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) This communication contains the results of a series of observations of the three magnetic elements\#151 ; dip , intensity , and declination\#151 ; made VOL. XXIX .
B 2 Mr. W. D. Niven .
On certain Definite Integrals .
[ May 1 , along the 40th parallel in North America between the Atlantic Ocean and Salt Lake City .
Magnetic observations have been made , with more or less assiduity , at different places in the eastern States for many years past ; but of the immense tract of country lying between the Mississippi and the Pacific Ocean there is only a single determination of one of the three elements indicated on Sir Edward Sabine 's maps , viz. , a determination of declination at Salt Lake City .
A series of observations was made some years since by United States ' officers along the Mexican frontier , and a similar series was carried out by the English and American officers employed on the North American Boundary Commission .
The present set of observations was made , therefore , along the district which lies midway between the line of observations already run along the northern and southern boundaries of the United States ' territory .
The instruments employed formed part of the admirable magnetic equipment belonging to Owens College , Manchester , and were kindly placed at the disposal of the author by the Council of the College .
At the commencement and 'end of the survey a complete series of observations was made at Kew , which was adopted as a base station ; and a similar set was made at Washington in the magnetic observatory belonging to Mr. Charles A. Schott , of the United States ' Coast Survey Department , with a view of obtaining an independent check on the indications of the instruments .
The author learned from Mr. Schott that the Coast Survey Department is gradually accumulating data for a discussion of the magnetic history of the American continent .
It has already published a map of declination for 1870 , from which it is evident that much has been done in the determination of this particular element since the date of Sir E. Sabine 's memoirs , more especially along the Pacific slope , and in the regions to the west and south-west of the Great Salt Lake .
As yet , however , no observations have been published relating to any of the districts west of the Mississippi visited by the author .
II .
" On certain Definite Integrals .
occurring in Spherical Harmonic Analysis , and on the Expansion in Series of the Potentials of the Ellipsoid and of the Ellipse .
" By W. D. Niven , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. W. L. Glaisher , M.A. , F.R.S. Received April 3 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
The object of this paper is to explain a general method of calculating a class of integrals connected with the expansion of functions in spherical harmonic series .

