XVII .
A Letter from Charles Jernegan , M. D. Lic .
Coll. Med. Londin .
to Cromwell Mortimer , M. D. Secr. R. S. concerning an extraordinary Cystis in the Liver , full of Water .
SIR , IHOPE you will excuse the Liberty I take in communicating to you an uncommon case or Disorder of the Liver , lately observed at the opening the Body of Mrs. A. B. deceased , Qq2 aged Read March 14 .
aged near Forty , whom I had attended some Weeks before .
The Complaint was a constant acute Pain on the Region of the Liver , with a Swelling , or more than ordinary Fullness on that Side ; by pressing of which was perceived a Fluctuation of some Fluid lying deeper than just under the first Teguments .
This was confirmed by Mr. Sherwood , the Surgeon who assisted and examined the same .
The Body was opened by his Son Mr. Sherwood junior , when the Liver was found of a prodigious Size ( there was a small Adhesion to the Peritonaeum without Inflammation ) : It spread over the Stomach quite to the Spleen on the left Side , and contracted much the Cavity of the Thorax , by pressing and thrusting up the Diaphragma .
On opening the great Lobe of the Liver , there issued out above four Quarts of a limpid Water , from a Cavity formed by the proper containing Coat of the Liver ; tho ' the Water itself had been contained in a single conglobated Gland , and there formed a Cystis , which had burst , and was found loose at the Bottom of this large Cavity .
This Skin or Cystis was not so thin but still capable of further Expansion .
The Liver still did its Function of separating the Gall : The Gall-bladder and its Ducts were in a good State : The Lobulus Spigelii was much enlarged , and crumbled easily like a Mass of congealed Blood .
The Patient had no particular Thirst ; nor was there any Alteration in the Urine , as to Quantity more or less .
But she had this Symptom , common in the Hydrops Pectoris , of not bearing any other Posture but that of leaning forwards on her Breast .
I am , with all Respect , SIR , March 10 .
1744 .
Your most obedient Humble Servant , Ch. Jernegan .
The left Kidney , being longer than usual , was examined and found to have two Ureters ; and each had its separate Pelvis .

