1882.1 On the Great Horned Saurian of Australia .
III .
" Notice of Portions of the Skeleton of the Trunk and Limbs of the Great Horned Saurian of Australia ( prisca , Ow .
) .
" By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. , G.S. , \amp ; c. Received June 19 , 1882 .
| Former communications on the subject , admitted into the " Philosophical Transactions , " related to the skull and terminal caudal vertebrae , from a river-bed at Toowoomba , Queensland ; and in the discussion on those papers , a doubt was expressed whether they had been correctly referred to the genus and species founded upon trunk-vertebrae from other and remote localities , which had been the subject of a former paper , communicated to the Royal Society June 17th , 1858 , and published in the volume of the " Transactions , " 1858 , p. 48 , Plates VII and VIII .
My correspondence with Dr. Bennett , F.L.S. of Sydney , New South Wales , and with his son , George Frederic Bennett , Esq. , of Toowoomba , Queensland , has been unintermitting ; and I have been recently favoured with the reception of a consignment of fossil remains from the petrified drift formation of the same river-bed in which the subjects of the " communications " of April 15th , 1880 , land of February 3rd , 1881 , were found .
The most instructive of these is a dorsal vertebra , so closely corresponding in size and characters with the subject of Plate VII ( cit. 1858 ) as to render further description and figures unnecessary .
; Coming from the same formation , locality , and vicinity , as the parts of the skull ( restored in Plates 37 , 38 , of the " Phil. Trans. , " 1880 ) , no further doubt as to the Saurian affinities of that part seems admissible .
No trace of a Chelonian reptile has been found or indicated by any of the numerous fragmentary remains of Megalania from Mr. Bennett 's locality of that genus .
In the last transmission , received June 16th , 1882 , are portions of the pelvis , including part of the sacrum and of the right iliac bones .
The sacral fragment indicates two vertebrae , with the foramina for the transmission of the nerves of the hind limbs , in two pairs .
The corresponding vertebrae have coalesced , and there is a small portion of a third vertebra in like osseous attachment .
The portion of a right iliac bone shows a greater relative expanse of 3 the upper part than is seen in existing Laceriilia , and a corresponding ( departure from the cylindroid character of the body of the ilium in ' Ohelonia .
On the probable hypothesis that the above fossil fragments , like the associated dorsal vertebra , are parts of the skeleton of [ Megalania prisca , the pelvic fragments suggest an approach to a Dinosaurian character .
Of the corresponding limb a fragment of the shaft indicates a large

