HII .
A paper was in part read , entitled " Photo-chemical Researches.-Part I. On the Measurement of the Chemical Action of Light .
" By Professor BUNSEN of Heidelberg , and HENRY ENFIELD lOSCOE , B.A. , Ph. D. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received November 12 , 1856 .
November 27 , 1856 .
Sir BENJAMIN C. BRODIE , Bart. , V.P. , in the Chair .
Dr. Noad was admitted into the Society .
In accordance with the Statutes , notice was given of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting , and the following names of persons recommended for election as Council and Officers for the ensuing year , were announced from the Chair : President.-The Lord Wrottesley , M.A. Treasurer.-Major-General Edward Sabine , R.A. , D.C.L. SecretWilliam Sharpey , M.D. e etares .
lGeorge Gabriel Stokes , Esq. , M.A. , D.C.L. Foreign Secretary.-William Hallows Miller , Esq. , M.A. Other Members of the Council.-James Moncrieff Arnott , Esq. ; William Benjamin Carpenter , M.D. ; Arthur Cayley , Esq. ; The Very Rev. The Dean of Ely ; William Fairbairn , Esq. ; Arthur Far , M.D. ; William Robert Grove , Esq. , M.A. ; Joseph Dalton Hooker , M.D. ; William Hopkins , Esq. , M.A. ; William Allen Miller , M.D. ; Lyon Playfair , Esq. , C.B. , Ph. D. ; Rev. Bartholomew Price , M.A. ; Sir James Clark Ross , Capt. R.N. , D.C.L. ; Rear-Admiral W. H. Smyth , D.C.L. ; John Stenhouse , LL. D. ; John Tyndall , Esq. , Ph. D. Mr. Grove , Dr. Hooker , Mr. Hopkins , Sir James C. Ross , and Dr. Tyndall were elected Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society .
The reading of Professor BUNSEN and Dr. HENRY ROSCOE'S Paper " On the Measurement of the Chemical Action of Light , " was resumed and concluded .
( Abstract .
) The only instrument which has been applied to the measurement of the chemical action of light was proposed in 1843 by Dr. Draper of New York .
The sensitive substance employed by him was a mixture of chlorine and hydrogen , and by measuring the diminution ensuing on exposure to light , he experimentally determined some important relations of photo-chemical action .
Draper 's instrument is , however , not adapted for accurate measurements , owing , in the first place , to the fact that the gas is subject to varying pressure ; and , in the second place , that the statical equilibrium , which must exist between the free and dissolved gases , in order that the free gas should consist of equal volumes of chlorine and hydrogen , was never approached .
In order to obtain more accurate results than was possible with Draper 's tithonometer , we sought for means of preparing a gas containing equal volumes of chlorine and hydrogen ; this means was found , notwithstanding Draper 's contrary statement , in the electrolysis of strong aqueous hydrochloric acid .
A series of volumetric analyses proved that the gas thus evolved consisted , as soon as the requisite saturation had been attained , of exactly equal volumes of its component parts , and did not contain the slightest trace of oxygen or oxides of chlorine .
Another series of experiments with gas , similarly prepared , but allowed to stand before analysis for many hours in the dark in closed vessels , proved that , at the ordinary atmospheric temperature , the gases do not enter into combination when the light is excluded .
Being thus enabled to prepare a substance which undergoes decomposition on exposure to light , but does not change on preservation in the dark , we proceeded to construct an apparatus by means of which the laws of the chemical action of light might be thoroughly investigated .
After many fruitless attempts , we have succeeded in constructing an instrument , by which not only accurate comparative determinations can be made , but which has enabled us to reduce the chemical action of light to an absolute measure .
The most essential conditions fulfilled by our instrument are the following:1 .
A continuous evolution of a gas consisting of exactly equal volumes of chlorine and hydrogen free from all foreign impurities .
2 .
Constant pressure on the gas and liquids throughout the apparatus .
3 .
Absence of all caoutchouc or other organic matter which might alter the composition of the gas .
4 .
Exclusion of all variation in the composition of the gas in the apparatus from exposing the saturated liquids to the light .
5 .
Complete establishment of the statical equilibrium between the free and dissolved gases .
6 .
Elimination of the disturbing action of radiant heat .
The instrument in which these conditions are fulfilled is constructed entirely of glass , and consists essentially of four parts , viz.1 , a decomposing tube in which the gases are generated from carbon poles ; 2 , a washing tube containing water , furnished with an airtight glass stopcock ; 3 , the vessel in which the gases are exposed to the action of the light attached to the other parts of the apparatus by air-tight ground-glass joints ; and 4 , a horizontal tube on which the diminution of volume in the insolation vessel is observed by means of a millimeter scale .
When the apparatus is freshly filled with the requisite quantity of water , the pure electrolytic gas is allowed to pass through , certain necessary precautions being used , until a constant source of light , such as a coal-gas flame burning under certain circumstances , produces in equal times always the same alteration of volume .
This constant maximum action is generally not reached until from eight to ten litres of gas have passed through the instrument , and the saturation has continued for from three to six days .
As soon , however , as this maximum is attained , the instrument is ready for use , and preserves this constant sensibility for many weeks , requiring only a short saturation each day in order to fit it for accurate photochemical measurements .
On exposing the gas to the light , the quantity of hydrochloric acid formed does not at once attain the maximum : a certain time often elapses before any alteration of volume is perceptible ; a slight action is , however , soon observed , and this gradually increases until the permanent maximum is reached .
This phenomenon , to which we have given the name of photo-chemical induction , is one of great interest and importance , and will be specially studied in our next section .
As the maximum action is not attained for several minutes after the first exposure , the observations can only be made use of as soon as the action for several successive minutes has become constant .
By a combination of several actual observations , the differences between the indications are found to be very slight .
Found .
Mean .
Diff. 13-23 ... .
13-36 ... .
+0'13 13-50 ... .
13-36 ... .
--014 13-35 ... .
13-36 ... .
+0-01 A special investigation was conducted for the purpose of determining the effect produced by the heat evolved from the slow combustion of the chlorine and hydrogen .
Experiment and calculation gave the following as some of the more important results:1 .
That the heat evolved in the insolation vessel from the combustion of the gases exerts no perceptible influence on the indications of the instrument .
2 .
That the slight diminution in volume which occurs in the first few seconds after exclusion of light , is entirely owing to a decrease of temperature from a cessation of the combustion .
In order fully to test our apparatus , we have observed the action effected by a coaL-gas flame of constant dimensions on our apparatus on different days .
Determinations made in June last gave the following results : Action in 1 min , Diff. from mean .
lth June. .
14-00 ... .
+0-01 12th , ,. .
1426 ... .
-035 13th , ,. .
1380 ... --011 19th , ,. .
1383 ... .
-0-08 21st , , .
13-88 ... .
-0-03 26th , ,. .
1372 ... .
--0'19 Mean value. .
13-91 Observations made with the constant flame placed at different known distances from the insolation vessel , proved that the amount of chemical action produced varied inversely as the square of the distance ; and experiments made in September with the standard flame gave results which agreed most exactly with those obtained in June .
From the exact agreement of these various observations we are assured of the accuracy and reliability of the measurements made with our instrument .
In order to see whether the variation of the atmospheric temperature exerted any influence on the sensibility of the electrolytic gas , we saturated the apparatus at various temperatures lying between 18 ?
and 27 ?
C. , and found that the difference between the action at any two temperatures lying between the above degrees was so slight , that it did not exceed the unavoidable errors of experiment .
In the next communication we shall consider the relations of the interesting phenomena of photo-chemical induction .

