2P6 Dr. P. F. Fmnkland and Mrs. Frankland .
[ Mar. 13 , an addition to our knowledge of the great Calamarian family , to which the plant obviously belongs .
Further demonstrations are also given by the author , illustrating some features in the history of the true Calamites .
Attention is called to the fact that , whilst the large , longitudinally-grooved and furrowed inorganic casts of the central medullary cavities of these plants are extremely common , we never find similar casts of the smaller branches .
The cause of this is demonstrated in the memoir .
In these young twigs the centre of the branch is at first occupied by a parenchymatous medulla .
The centre of this medulla becomes absorbed at a very early age , leaving the beginnings of a small fistular cavity in its place ; but , if any plastic mud or sand entered this cavity when the plant was submerged , the surface of such a cast would exhibit no longitudinal groovings , because there would be nothing in the remaining medullary cells surrounding the cast to produce such an effect .
It was only when the further growth of the branch was accompanied by a more complete absorption of the remaining medullary cells , causing the cavity thus produced to be bounded by the inner wedge-shaped angles of the longitudinal vascular bundles constituting the xylem zone , that such an effect could be produced .
After that change any inorganic substance finding its way into the interior of this cavity , had its surface so moulded by the wedges as to produce the superficial longitudinal ridges and furrows so characteristic of these inorganic casts .
II .
" The Nitrifying Process and its Specific Ferment .
" By Percy F. Frankland , Ph. D. , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , A.R.S.M. , Ac .
, Professor of Chemistry in University College , Dundee , and Grace C. Frankland .
Communicated by Professor THORPE , F.R.S. Received February 28 , 18D0 .
( Abstract .
) The process of nitrification has been practically studied for centuries , but it was first in the year 1878 that it was shown by Schloesing and Muntz to be dependent upon the presence of certain minute forms of life , or micro-organisms , or in other words to be a fermentation change .
The authors have been engaged during the last three years in endeavouring to isolate the nitrifying organism , and the present memoir gives in detail an account of the numerous experiments which weie made in this direction .
Nitrification , having been in the first instance induced in a particular ammoniacal solution by means of a small quantity of garden 1890 .
] The Nitrifying Process and its Specific Ferment .
297 soil , was carried on through twenty-four generations , a minute quantity on the point of a sterilised needle being introduced from one nitrifying solution to the other .
From several of these generations , gelatine-plates were poured and the resulting colonies inoculated into identical ammoniacal solutions , to see if nitrification would ensue ; but , although these experiments were repeated many times , on no occasion were they successful .
It appeared , therefore , that the nitrifying organism either refused to grow in gelatine , or that the authors had failed to find it , or that , growing in gelatine , it refused to nitrify after being passed through this medium .
Experiments were , therefore , commenced to endeavour to isolate the organism by the dilution method .
For this purpose a number of series'of dilutions were made by the addition to sterilised distilled water of a very small quantity of an ammoniacal solution which had nitrified .
It was hoped that the attenuation would be so perfect that ultimately the nitrifying organism alone would be introduced .
After a very large number of experiments had been made in this direction the authors at length succeeded in obtaining an attenuation consisting of about Toohooo of the original nitrifying solution employed , which not only nitrified , but on inoculation into gelatine-peptone refused to grow , and was seen under the mici'oscope to consist of numerous characteristic bacilli hardly longer than broad , which may be described as bacillo-cocci .
These results are the more striking , for in the case of the two other bottles similarly diluted , one had not nitrified , but on inoculation into gelatine-peptone produced a growth already on the second day , whilst the remaining bottle not only produced a growth , but had also nitrified , thus clearly showing that the number of organisms had been reduced to two , i.e. , one which nitrified and did not grow in gelatine , and another which had nothing to do with nitrification , but which grew in gelatine .
In the case where nitrification took place and a growth also appeared in the gelatine-tube , it was obvious that both the nitrifying and non-nitrifying organisms , were present .
These inoculation tests , together with the microscopical appearances , were confirmed by repeated experiments with invariably the same results .
It is , however , very remarkable that , although this bacillo-cqccus obstinately refuses to grow in gelatine when inoculated from these dilute media , yet in broth it produces a very characteristic growth , which , although slow in commencing , often requiring three weeks before it makes its appearance , is very luxuriant .
The authors have , moreover , been successful in inducing nitrification in ammoniacal solutions inoculated from such broth cultivations , the extent of which has been quantitatively determined .
Presents .
[ Mar. 13 , Although microscopically its form differs slightly when grown in broth and the ammoniacal solution respectively , yet its identity was established beyond question by its returning to its characteristic bacillo-coccus form when grown again in the ammoniacal solution .
The authors have also been able to induce its tardy growth in gelatine-peptone by passing it first through broth cultivations .
The paper is accompanied by carefully executed drawings of the nitrifying organism when grown in the various media employed .
Presents , March 13 , 1890 .
Transactions .
AlbanyNew York State Museum of Natural History .
Reports .
1887-88 .
8vo .
Albany 1888-89 .
The Museum .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Studies from the Biological Laboratory .
Vol. IV .
No. 6 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1890 ; Studies ( Historical and Political Science ) .
Eighth Series .
Nos. 1-2 .
8vo .
Baltimore1890 ; Circulars .
Yol .
IX .
No. 78 .
4to .
Baltimore 1890 .
The University .
Basel:\#151 ; Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Yerhandlungen .
Theil VIII .
Heft 3 .
8vo .
Basel 1890 .
The Society .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; Harvard College .
Annual Reports .
1888-89 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1890 .
The College .
Kew:\#151 ; Royal Gardens .
Bulletin of Miscellaneous Information .
Appendix I. 1890 .
8vo .
London .
The Director .
Kieff :\#151 ; Societe des Naturalistes .
Memoires .
Tome X. Livr .
2 .
8vo .
Kiew 1889 .
[ Russian .
] The Society .
London :\#151 ; British Museum .
Catalogue of the Fossil Reptilia and Amphibia .
Part 3 .
8vo .
London 1889 ; Guide to the Mineral Gallery .
8vo .
London 1889 .
The Trustees .
Odontological Society of Great Britain .
Transactions .
Vol. XXII .
No. 4 .
8vo .
London 1890 .
The Society .
Photographic Society of Great Britain .
Journal and Transactions .
Vol. XIV .
No. 5 .
8vo .
London 1890 .
The Society .
Society of Biblical Archaeology .
Proceedings .
Vol. XII .
Part 4 .
8vo .
London 1890 .
The Society .
New York:\#151 ; Loomis Laboratory of the Medical Department of the University of the City of New York .
Researches .
No. 1 .
8vo .
\_New Yorlt ] 1890 .
The Director , Laboratory of Physiology .
Siena:\#151 ; R. Accademia dei Eisiocritici .
A.tti .
Ser. 4 .
Vol. I. Ease .
10 .
8vo .
Siena 1889 .
The Academy .
SAvitzerland:\#151 ; Societe Helvetique des Sciences Naturelies , Acts .

