240 Studies in Heredity .
II.\#151 ; Further Experiments in Crossing British Species of Sea-urchins* By E. W. MacBride , F.R.S. ( Received October 27 , \#151 ; Read November 6 , 1913 .
) Two years ago I read a paper before the Society in which I gave the results which I had obtained by crossing the two species of sea-urchin Echinus esculentus and Echinocardium cordatum .
The first of these is a regular urchin , the second an enocyclic urchin belonging to the order Spatangoidea .
The results recorded in that paper were briefly these :\#151 ; The egg of Echinocardium fertilised by the sperm of Echinus gives rise to a hybrid which exhibits a mixture of maternal and paternal characters , but only a small proportion of the hybridised eggs develop .
The egg of Echinus fertilised by the sperm of Echinocardium develops a fertilisation membrane , but then breaks up into a heap of globules by the process known as cytolysis , and dies .
Since writing that paper my experiments were repeated at Plymouth by Euchs , t now my colleague at the Imperial College , and he obtained different results .
According to him the eggs of Echinus fertilised by the sperm of Echinocardium gave rise to hybrid larvae which were maternal in character , whilst the eggs of Echinocardium fertilised by the sperm of Echinus gave rise to hybrids of two kinds , some purely maternal in type and some resembling those which I had obtained .
As I suspected that some of the divergences between the results of Fuchs and myself might be due to the accidental infection of the sea-water used with the sperm of the species of which the eggs were taken , a circumstance which would produce larvae of purely maternal character , I resolved to repeat my experiments , and accordingly this summer I proceeded to Millport , where my first experiments were performed .
I have to thank Mr. Elmhirst , Superintendent of the Marine Biological Station at Millport , for the way in which he aided my efforts .
To his kindness I owe the successful issue of my experiments .
The results which I obtained during this last summer prove that my suspicion as to the cause of the divergence between Fuchs 's results and my own was entirely unfounded , for this year I obtained larvae by fertilising the * " Studies in Heredity .
I.\#151 ; The Effects of Crossing the Sea-urchins Echinus esculentus and Echinocardium cordatum , " 'Roy .
Soc , Proc. , ' 1911 , B , vol. 84 .
t " The Inheritance of the Aboral Process of the Echinocardium Pluteus , " ' Arch , Entw.-Mech .
, ' 1912 , vol. 35 .
Studies in Heredity .
eggs of Echinus with the sperm of Echinocardium , which were purely maternal in character .
I may add that , in addition to repeating the experiments which I had performed two years before , I also crossed the species Echinus miliariswith Echinocardium hut this species gave practically the same results as Echinus and , except where otherwise stated , the remarks in this paper will apply to the cross between Echinus esculentus and Echinocardium cordatum .
Every possible precaution was adopted to prevent sperm infection The outsides of all the urchins used were washed in a copious stream of fresh water before they were opened , in order to destroy any adhering sperm ; all the instruments employed were likewise washed in fresh water , and the fertilisation of the eggs was effected in sea-water , which had been thoroughly sterilised by previous heating to 80 ' C. One fact which forced itself prominently on one 's notice this year was the individual idiosyncrasy of urchins with regard to the capacity for being crossed .
Sometimes two urchins when crossed , although to all appearance ripe , would not yield a single hybrid larva\#151 ; yet the eggs developed rapidly when fertilised with their own sperm .
Another time , females apparently only half ripe yielded eggs which when fertilised with the foreign sperm produced a certain proportion of hybrid larvae .
In general it may be said that the eggs of Echinocardium cordatum in 1913 were much more resistant to the action of the sperm of Echinus esculentus than they were in 1911 .
In some cases these eggs refused to develop at all , but broke up by the process of cytolysis into a multitude of spherules , just as I had described the eggs of Echinus esculentus doing when fertilised with the sperm of Echinocardium cordatum ( fig. 1 ) .
Indeed , in all cases this may be Fig. 1.\#151 ; Egg of Echinocardium cordatum , fertilised with the sperm of Echinus esculentus breaking up into globules .
said to have been the case of most , but in many cases a certain proportion of hybrid larvae were produced which showed in every detail the features which I had described in the hybrids obtained in 1911 , and I shall not therefore Mr. E. W. MacBride .
repeat them here .
Unfortunately I could not keep any of them alive for a longer period than five days , and therefore I did not obtain one of the features ( viz. , the inbending of the aboral ends of the body rods ) which only appeared in hybrids which in 1911 had lived longer than five days .
Few as were the hybrids obtained by fertilising the eggs of with the sperm of Echinus , still fewer were the hybrids resulting from the fertilisation of the eggs of Echinus with the sperm of Echinocardium .
In the vast majority of cases the eggs broke up with the formation of globules as I described in 1911 .
In the case of one urchin I obtained larvae which were purely maternal in character , i.e. which resembled exactly the normal larvae of Echinus esculentus .
This result therefore tallied with that which Fuchs had obtained in 1912 , indeed the larvae which I obtained lived longer and developed further than those described by Fuchs .
In all other cases very peculiar hybrids were produced .
The egg segmented so as to form a regular blastula , but when the primary mesenchyme cells were budded off into the blastocoele ( fig. 2 ) the divergence between the hybrid and normal Fig. 2.\#151 ; Blastula produced by fertilising the egg of Echinus esculentus with the sperm of Echinocardium , cor datum .
larvae became clearly marked .
In the normal blastula only about fifty primary mesenchyme cells are produced , all of about the same size , and these are arranged in a ring , but in the hybrid not only are the mesenchyme cells of many different sizes but some of them show the beginnings of the process of cytolysis .
The conclusion is irresistibly suggested to the mind that this over-production of mesenchyme is really a manifestation of the Studies in Heredity .
tendency to cytolysis , which inhibits altogether the development of most eggs of Echinus when treated with the sperm of The next day the hybrid blastula becomes a gastrula by the appearance of the invagination which gives rise to the archenteron .
This invagination is of very small size compared to the corresponding invagination in a normal gastrula\#151 ; it is , so to speak , pushed to one side by the abnormal multitude of mesenchyme cells ( fig. 3 ) .
On the third or fourth day the larva reaches the stage when the normal larva is denominated a " prism-larva " \#151 ; the rr t \lt ; Arch. Fig. 3.\#151 ; Gastrula produced by fertilising the egg of Echinus with the sperm of Echinocardium cordatum .
Arch , archenteric invagination .
stage , that is to say , when the archenteron has become differentiated into oesophagus , stomach and intestine , and when the mouth and stomodieum are making their appearance as a new invagination .
The hybrid , however , has retained the spherical form of the egg ; it is filled with a great mass of mesenchyme , and the small and feebly developed alimentary canal lies pushed to one side ( fig. 4 ) .
A few of these hybrids lived to the age of five or six days , and , whilst the form remained mainly spherical , two short feeble rudiments of the postoral arms were produced .
Loeb , * in describing experiments with the eggs of Asterias , makes the statement that these eggs require to lie in sea-water for some time in order to ripen : and that after they have lain for a day or so in sea-water without being fertilised they die and undergo granular degeneration .
It occurred * t Die Chemisette Entwicklung des Tierischen Eyes , ' Jena , 1910 .
Studies in Heredity .
to me that a critic might possibly advance the theory that the eggs which I believed to have undergone cytolysis , in consequence of the entry of foreign sperm , really died in the normal course of affairs through the inability of the foreign sperm to enter them and the consequent absence of fertilisation .
In the case of Echinus eggs the reply might be made that these even when Calc .
jStom .
Inb .
* Fig. 4.\#151 ; Stage equivalent to the " prism-larva in a hybrid produced by fertilising the egg of Echinus esculentus with the sperm of Echinocardium cordatum .
Calc .
, incipient calcifications , the rudiments of the larval skeleton Int. , intestine ; stomach ; Stom .
, stomodseum ( ectodermal oesophagus ) .
undergoing cytolysis show clearly and unmistakably the fertilisation membrane , which may be accepted as evidence that a spermatozoon has entered the egg , but the egg of Echinocardium ( fig. 1 ) does not show the fertilisation membrane clearly ; if present it lies close to the surface of the egg .
In order therefore to place the matter beyond doubt the following experiment was made:\#151 ; Eggs were shaken out from a ripe Echinocardium into sterilised sea-water .
The culture thus obtained was divided into two portions : one portion ( A ) was treated with the sperm of Echinus esculentus , and one portion ( B ) was left unfertilised .
On the following morning , in ( A ) all the eggs were dead and had undergone cytolysis , but all the eggs in ( B ) were as clear and transparent as when they had left the parent .
( B ) was now divided in three portions , which we shall designate ( ) , ( ) , and ( c ) ; ( a ) was fertilised with Echinocardium sperm , ( h ) was fertilised with Echinus sperm , and ( c ) was left unfertilised .
On the following morning , ( ) had given rise to numerous larvse , showing that the eggs of which it was composed were still Optimum Temperature of Salicin Hydrolysis , etc. 245 perfectly capable of development .
The eggs of however , had neither developed nor had they undergone cytolysis .
They had remained clear , transparent , and unaltered , although they were surrounded by forests of spermatozoa which had failed to enter them .
The eggs of the portion ( c ) had likewise remained clear and unaltered .
It is therefore proved that the entry of a foreign spermatozoon into an egg may cause its death by producing cytolysis , and the enormous production of mesenchyme which takes place in those few hybrid eggs which do develop is in all probability a phenomenon of the same kind as cytolysis , which is after all only a premature and exaggerated fragmentation of the cytoplasm .
But an egg can become totally unreceptive to foreign spermatozoa , whilst it is still capable of receiving the spermatozoa belonging to its own species and of undergoing normal development , and thus two causes of sterility when distinct species are crossed are unmasked , viz. , either ( a ) the egg refuses to receive the foreign spermatozoon at all or ( b ) it receives it and undergoes cytolysis in consequence .
The Optimum Temperature of Salicin Hydrolysis by Enzyme Action is Independent of the Concentrations of Substrate and Enzyme .
By Arthur Compton , B.A. , M.B. , B.U.I. , Imperial Cancer Research Fund .
( Communicated by Sir J. R. Bradford , K.C.M.G. , Sec. R.S. Received October 14 , \#151 ; Read December 4 , 1913 .
) The object of the present investigation is to ascertain the influence , if any , on the optimum temperature\#151 ; temperature of greatest activity\#151 ; of an enzyme , of the concentration , on the one hand , of the substrate , and , on the other , of the enzyme .
The investigation , involving two variables , presents three cases for consideration , according as the concentration of the substrate and the concentration of the enzyme are varied separately or together .
An account is given of the results obtained with the enzyme or enzymic function , present in sweet-almond emulsin , which hydrolyses the glucoside salicin with the production of equimolecular quantities of glucose and saligenin .
A commercial specimen of Merck 's emulsin was used , while the purity of the salicin employed was ascertained by determining its melting point ( 200-5 ' ) and its optical activity ( [ *]\#187 ; = -62'7 ' ) .

