PHILOSOPHICAL TBANSACTIONS .
I. Upon the 'Existence of more than one Fungus in Madura Disease ( Mycetoma ) .
By Hubert Boyce , M.B. , Assistant Professor of University College , London , and Nusserwangi F. Surveyor , M.D. , M.R.C.P. ( From the Pathological Laboratory of University College , London .
) Communicated by Professor Victor Horsley , F.R.S. Received Feb. 21 , \#151 ; Read March 9 , 1893 .
[ Plates 1-4 .
] The scientific history of the fungus disease of India dates from the publication , in 1874 , of the collected papers of Vandyke Carter .
This observer showed that the fungus foot was a " veritable parasitic disease , due to the growth and extension within the tissues of the human foot of an indigenous mould .
" He demonstrated the presence of the parasite in all specimens examined , and came to the conclusion that it was one species , the Chionyphe Carteri .
In 1888 new observations were published in the collected papers of Lewis and Cunningham .
They came to the conclusion that mycetoma was " essentially a degeneration of the fatty tissues , independent of the local presence or influence of any parasites whatever .
" In 1888 , Bassini* described a case of the black variety of the fungus in Italy ( the first case in Europe ) , and by means of caustic potash concluded that the organism was a mycelial fungus , somewhat of the nature of the or Mucorini .
Lastly , in 1892 , Hr .
KanthackI re-asserted the fungoid nature of the disease , and brought forward evidence to show the identity , or close affinity , of the organism with that of Actinomycosis .
We , on the other hand , will bring forward reasons for believing that there are at least two distinct fungi\#151 ; one a very highly organised species , the other a very delicate and lowly organised type , presenting very many of * Bassini , 'Bact .
Centrlb .
, ' 1888 .
f ' Journal of Pathology and Bactei'iology , ' No. 2 .
B 26.4.94 the characters of Actinomyces .
And we farther think that we will be able to account for the apparent discrepancies in observation in the case of the previous writers .
The Madura foot of India is a very chronic affection , lasting in some cases twenty-five years.* It is a purely local disease of the extremities , chiefly the foot , and generalisation has not been observed .
It usually occurs in people who go barefoot and are working in fields .
In most cases it has been traced to some injury .
The big toe is often affected at first .
The disease stops at the ankle for a short time , then it spreads up to the knee , and eventually may even reach the thigh .
One of us has had the opportunity of seeing a recurrence in the scar after amputation ; this , however , must be very rare , and amputation affords complete relief\#151 ; and is , indeed , one of the most successful operations in India .
The foot , as the photograph 1 shows , is greatly altered ; it is enlarged , often many times the natural size .
The overgrowth of the foot is irregular ; the toes may become buried , as shown in the figure , and the surface become studded over with mammillated , or even villous , projections .
A large number of the mammillated projections mark the presence of sinuses , which pass deeply into the foot ; and on section ( fig. 2 ) these may be seen to honeycomb it .
From the opening of the sinuses a purulent or sanious discharge can be pressed out , and in this are found , in one series of cases , small particles of a light yellow colour , which have been compared to fish roe ; whilst , in the remaining cases , deep brown or black particles , resembling grains of gunpowder , may be seen .
The disorganisation of the interior of the foot becomes very complete in time ; the bones undergo a rarefactive osteitis , and are ultimately absorbed ; granulation tissue also invades the muscles and fat , and leads to their disappearance .
Associated with the hypertrophy of the granulation tissue there may be considerable hyperplasia of the epithelium of the skin .
This " overgrowth gives rise to the mammillated and papillomatous projections previously referred to .
The only difference which one at present finds , clinically and microscopically , in the numerous cases of Madura foot is the difference in the size and colour of the particles .
Carter termed that form of the disease in which the black particles were present the " melanoid " variety , while under the " white " or " ochroid " were grouped those cases in which the fish roe-like bodies were found .
It will be understood that only those cases of Madura disease in which the particles can be demonstrated macro-scopically or microscopically will be admitted as genuine .
The disease appears to be confounded with scrofula and various forms of elephantiasis , in the production of which probably other parasites play an important part .
In this paper we will confine ourselves chiefly to the elucidation of the fungus of the melanoid variety , and contrast it with that of the white .
This is all the more necessary , because the older writers , from the time of Vandyke Carter , agreed that the black bodies did show some kind of vegetable structure , whilst the structure of the white appeared very obscure .
Yet the most recent writer upon the subject , Dr. Kanthack , takes the opposite view , * Nusserwangi F. Surveyor , ''Madura Foot of India .
" ' Brit. Med. Journ. , ' Sept. , 1892 , EXISTENCE OP MORE THAN ONE FUNGUS IN MADURA DISEASE .
and in the three melanoid specimens which , he examined he " found it difficult to convince himself of their vegetable nature .
" On examining a diseased foot , the black particles will be found in abundance , both loose in the sinuses and packed closely in cavities in the tissue .
A fresh section with the razor may cut across a black mass firmly imbedded in the tissue , and the intimate relationship of both can then be readily seen with the naked eye .
The particles vary very greatly in size , from a pin 's head , or even smaller , to the large mass three-quarters of an inch in diameter , depicted in fig. 3 .
In shape they are irregular , and a dendritic form can very often be seen .
Fig. 3 has the .
mulberry form which is often described .
On section , the appearance is somewhat radiate .
Fig. 4 is a section through the large mass ( fig. 3 ) , slightly magnified ( Obj .
35 mm. , Zeiss ) .
Fig. 5 passes through a minute particle in another specimen ; it is .
more highly magnified ( Obj .
D , Zeiss ) , and the appearance is distinctly radiate , but this fine radiation is not the same as the coarse radiate grouping seen with the naked eye , and in the preceding figure .
As regards colour , the naked eye examination shows that the particles are darkest at the periphery , becoming a lighter brown as the centre is approached .
Examinations with the immersion , as in fig. 6 , seem at first sight to throw very little light upon the nature of these curious black masses ; a slight venation may be seen , as in fig. 6 , or peculiar holes in a homogeneous matrix , as in figs. 5 and 6a .
It was in these apparently structureless masses that we first demonstrated the existence of a well-formed , large-branching , and septate fungus .
The method of procedure was as follows:\#151 ; A black particle was boiled for from one minute to half an hour in concentrated caustic potash ; the particle , which had undergone very little apparent change , was next transferred to distilled water , when all the black colouring matter rapidly diffused out , leaving behind a white soft mass .
This , upon microscopic examination , proved to consist wholly of a fungus similar to that represented in figs. 7-9 .
A segment of the large black mass ( fig. 3 ) was , after similar treatment with caustic potash and water , dehydrated and imbedded in collodion ; sections subsequently revealed a similar fungus .
Caustic potash , we found , had been used by other observers .
Thus , Lewis and Cunningham direct that a crushed particle should be placed for a considerable time in a test-tube of strong caustic potash ; a sediment collects at the bottom which equals the th of the original bulk ; upon microscopic examination , this proves to consist of hyphae not distinguishable from those of fungi .
From an illustration of the hyphae given by the authors , it appears they are identical with those we find .
They , however , look upon these elements as unimportant constituents of the black masses , which they think have an origin identical with the other pigmentary deposits in animal tissues .
The fungus is to them a mere " epiphenomenon " in the particle .
In our method of treatment with boiling caustic potash and water , we in no way disturb the arrangement of the fungus , and we have succeeded in washing and mounting sections of particles as small as a pin 's head .
The method , however , has the disadvantage that it did not permit us to examine the decolourized fungus in situ in the tissues , any trace of animal tissue being destroyed by the concentrated caustic potash , nor does it permit the use of collodion .
We had at this stage to content ourselves with the examination of the brown amorphous masses in the tissues , and of the decolourized particles after removal fropa them .
Professor Oliver , * however , brought to our notice the use of Eau de Javelle as a clearing re-agent superior to caustic potash for vegetable structure .
Its application in our case was most successful .
If the black particles are dehydrated , embedded in collodion , and cut , and the sections are then steeped in the Eau de Javelle for from two to five minutes , or until gas bubbles begin to appear in them , it will be found that the fungus has been rendered beautifully transparent , whilst remains of the original animal tissue are still visible .
In fact , within certain limits this re-agent has very little action upon the animal tissue , and thus at once permits the study of the clarified fungus in relation to its surroundings .
It suffices for this purpose that a portion of the tissue containing the black masses should be thoroughly dehydrated in absolute alcohol , then transferred to ether , and subsequently to collodion .
The collodion is allowed to concentrate , and the impregnated mass is hardened in methylated chloroform , and cut .
The sections are washed in the Eau de Javelle until almost all the colour has disappeared from the particles ; they are then rinsed in plenty of distilled water and stained with logwood or haematoxylin .
No matter how old the specimen , and we have examined the oldest in this country , the results are always the same .
The following are the results obtained from an examination of seven specimens of the black variety . !
Fig. 4 is a very slightly magnified section of the large mass , fig. 3 , obtained from the specimen fig. 2 in University College M useum .
It will be seen that it is composed of irregular black masses , which , more especially towards the periphery , have a somewhat branched or radiate disposition .
Fig. 6 is portion of one of the dark masses in the preceding figure , seen under the immersion ; it shows the indication of a branching network , the branches for the most part running fan-like to the periphery ; there is a peculiar oval body in the lower part of the section .
'Examination of the untreated sections showed the presence of very many of these oval bodies , but some were more round and others more oval in section ; during our early experiments with caustic potash their appearance greatly puzzled , us .
It had occurred to us that they might be sections of vessels , but we could hardly realize how vessels could have become imbedded in the brown amorphous material .
Professors Marshall AVard and Oliver likewise * We wish to express our thanks both to Professor Oliver and Professor Marshall Ward for much friendly criticism and advice during the course of this investigation .
f We are greatly indebted to Mr. Cathcart for specimens from the Museum of the College of Surgeons in Edinburgh ; to Mr. Targett , of the Royal College of Surgeons , London ; to Dr. Willett , of St. Bartho-lomew 's ; to Dr. Lawrence of the University College Museum ; to Professor Wright , of Netley , and Pro* fessor Coats , of Glasgow ; to Dr. Bennett , of Trinity College , Dublin , and to Dr. Shaw , of Guy s Hospital , and Dr. Massina , of Bombay .
See end of paper for notes respecting fifteen other cases examined since this paper was written .
EXISTENCE OF MORE THAN ONE FUNGUS IN MADURA DISEASE .
5 suggested that they might be vessels , and such we consequently found most of them to be .
Fig. 10 is a photomicrograph , taken with Obj .
BB .
, Zeiss , of portion of the section fig. 4 which has been treated with E Javelle and stained for twenty-four hours in logwood .
In it the lighter areas correspond to the slightly stained fungus , whilst the dark network indicates the remains of the animal tissue in which the fungus grew ; the bodies conspicuous amongst the hyphal masses are for the most part vessels .
When fig. 10 is examined with the immersion , the various vegetable and animal elements can be readily made out .
Figs. 7 and 8 , taken from decolourized unstained glycerine preparations , show that the hyphse are large , irregularly branched , and septate , and their appearance seems more suggestive of the higher sprouting fungi than of any other group with which we are acquainted .
The grouping , size , and division of the filaments is , however , subject to considerable variation .
The fungus is most frequently met with in the tissue in the form of tufts , made up of hyphse which spread out somewhat fan-like ; in a less number of cases the filaments in a tuft radiate regularly from the centre ; in a third case ( figs. 11 and 12 ) the periphery is made up of closely-set radiating hyphse , whilst the centre is occupied by an irregular large-celled pseudo-parenchyma .
It was a specimen of this last form that we are inclined to believe Dr. Kanthack mistook for Actinomyces , and upon which he grounded the opinion of the Actinomycotic nature of the white and black varieties of Madura foot .
The hyphse may be very slender , with few septa and branches , a condition which is mostly seen in what appear to be the rapidly growing forms .
There may be marked segmentation and branching , the segments may be very large and oval ( fig. 8 ) , and in some cases they give rise to a very striking pseudo-parenchyma .
Very often one segment is very much larger than the others , and it may be terminal and then resemble somewhat closely a very large spore capsule .
In the radiate tufts the hyphse usually taper towards the periphery .
Many of the hyphse and large cell segments contain granular contents , in spite of the Eau de Javelle treatment .
The walls of the hyphse vary very considerably in thickness ; sometimes they are as thick as the lumen is wide , and they then cause the filaments in transverse sections to stand out pipe-like ; the walls also of the large rounded segments are often irregularly and very greatly thickened ; occasionally the walls of the terminal segments of a tuft are thickened , in a cluh-like manner , fig. 17a .
In one case of the disease the majority of the hyphse were comparatively delicate , fig. 9 ; in another very large and round or oval ( fig. 8 ) .
The hyphse may be very closely packed together into a feltwork , or into a large-celled pseudo-parenchyma , in which the walls of the segments appear to have fused together .
On the other hand , the filaments may be widely separated from one another , the intermediate substance being a finely granular ground-glass-like material .
This latter substance possesses in the untreated specimens the beautiful golden brown colour which is very characteristic ( fig. 6a ) .
The filaments in the centre of the tufts may undergo necrosis .
Apart from the colouring material which impregnates the intermediate substance and the walls of the hyphae , and which can be readily removed by Eau de Javelle , there may exist a much more persistent brown pigmentation of the walls of the filaments ( fig. 17a ) .
In no specimen have we seen any indication of the formation of sporangia or of spores .
With regard to the staining reactions of the fungus , we find that logwood , as in the case of the hyphal fungi , generally gives the best results ; we further find that the use of the Eau de Javelle increases the staining power of the logwood .
The filaments often stain unequally ; the terminal segments , as a rule , stain more deeply than the others .
The Nature of the Tissue Changes produced by the Growth of the Fungus .
The macroscopic appearances of the foot show that the parasite produces widespread hyperplasia as well as tissue destruction .
When the relationship of the black particles to the surrounding tissue is more closely studied , it is seen , as previously stated , that the former lie either loosely grouped in the sinuses , or closely surrounded by the tissues and semi-encapsuled .
The large body ( fig. 3 ) was encapsuled , but could , nevertheless , be readily enucleated .
The readiness with which this mass was removed , as well as its compact nature and appearance on section ( fig. 4 ) , led us at first to suppose that it would contain no traces of animal tissue ; the clearing away of the yellow colouring material and prolonged staining , however , clearly demonstrated the remains of the tissue in which the fungus grew .
The network formed by this tissue is seen in fig. 10 , as well as the skeletons of the vessels to which we have already called attention .
Fig. 13 is portion of a trabecula of fig. 10 , seen under the immersion , and it shows the branching hyphse dipping into granulation tissue .
The drawing ( fig. 19 ) shows the same thing as well as the gradual loss of distinctness of the small round cells ; many of the trabeculae are simply represented by tissue which has undergone coagulation necrosis , and in which , consequently , it is hard to demonstrate any cell elements .
Fig. 5 , the photograph , and fig. 6a , the drawing , of a radiating tuft of the uncleared fungus , show the massing of small round cells in the immediate vicinity of the fungus .
Both in the photograph and in the drawing , the gradual passage of the infiltrated tissue into the homogeneous ground-glass-like and pigmented interstitial substance between the hyphse of the fungus is very striking .
In all preparations of Madura disease , the round celled massing is very obvious , but in some cases the progressive destruction of the infiltrated tissue by the fungus is much more obvious than in other cases .
Thus , instead of the fungus being immediately surrounded by small round cell elements , it may be embedded in a wide area of necrotic tissue , in which stains show very little structure ; cases like this appear to correspond to rapidly growing forms of the disease .
As in the other chronic infective granulomata , so here , in addition to the small round cells , macrocytes and giant cells are abundant .
They are found in those cases where the fungus is making the least progress , or , in other words , in those cases in which the resistance of the tissue against the invading parasite is greater .
Figs. 17 , 21 , and 22 show very striking EXISTENCE OF MORE THAN ONE FUNGUS IN MADURA DISEASE .
examples of phagocytosis ; the phagocytes are similar to those which one of us found in enormous numbers in the case of Aspergillus n* Still even more striking are the huge phagocytic giant cells which may very often be found surrounding the smaller masses of the fungus , * this appearance is represented in the drawing ( fig. 22 ) .
The hyphse may ramify in the tissues for a considerable distance away from the main mass ; this is seen , for instance , in uncleared specimens , where the hyphae are represented by thick , solid , yellow trabeculae .
Sometimes phagocytes , as in fig. 17 , or a large giant cell , indicate the place where a few ramifying filaments may be found upon careful examination .
The direction of the ramifications may be determined by that of the connective tissue , trabeculae , or vessels .
We have already directed attention to the concentric vessel-like bodies scattered throughout the large nodule .
Many of them enclose several hyphae , and , from what we have seen in other specimens , it appears that the hyphae penetrate the vessels , and ramify in them ; they serve to guide the hyphae , and no doubt the same is also effected by the long-coursing connective tissue trabeculae .
In the case of Aspergillar mycosis , previously alluded to , the penetration of a , large vessel by the hyphae was very well marked .
It thus appears that the vessels may assist the extension of the fungus to no inconsiderable degree .
Nature and Significance of the Fungus .
Carter , in his description of the fungus of Madura disease , evidently describes , though with very little detail , a parasite similar to that which we have just described ; but he based his conclusions upon specimens which had only partially undergone metamorphosis , and in which , therefore , the hyphae were clear .
He concluded from these transition stages that the black masses , as well as the white bodies in the white variety , were of a similar fungoid character .
None of our specimens show those transition stages , and , unless we had resorted to the clearing process , it would have been very difficult to demonstrate their fungoid character .
It is most probable that the hyphae are originally clear , and that subsequently pigmentation and metamorphosis occurs .
Recognizing the probable fungoid nature of the black masses , Carter looked upon them as corresponding to the sclerotia of the higher fungi .
It must be remembered , however , that the hyphae ramifying throughout the tissues undergo this extraordinary metamorphosis ; the process is not limited to a particular portion of the fungus , nor is it connected in any way whatever\#151 ; at least , in so far as we have been able to judge by the examination of many hundreds of sections\#151 ; with a process of fructification .
As far as we have observed , the interstitial material between the hyphse is formed , to a slight extent , by the remains of the animal tissue in the immediate vicinity of the hyphse , and the hyphse themselves become obscured by an opaque golden-brown pigment : it is not a question of the thickness and browning of the * R. Boyce , " On Aspergillar Pneumono-Mycosis .
" 'Journal of Pathology and Bacteriology , ' No. 2 , 1892 .
walls of the hyphse , or of their forming a dense pseudo-parenchyma .
The phenomenon appears to us to be an end or involution phase , rather than a transition phase .
We are aware that , amongst the fungi , more than one sclerotioid process is described ; but whether anything analogous to the above occurs we are unable , from want of experience , to state .
It appears , however , to be a fact that parasitic sclerotia do occur , in which remains of the tissue of the plant host may be seen .
De Bary* mentions that CordaI points this out in the case of but we have not been able to find where he makes the statement in his atlas .
De Bary himself figures SclerotiniaFuckeliana , containing the cell debris of its vine-leaf host .
In many respects the black masses behave like the sclerotia .
Thus , if the sclerotium of of Claviceps purpurea is boiled for a short time in caustic potash , and then placed in water , there is the same streaming out of dark brown colouring matter .
Both are readily cleared by Eau de Javelle .
Nitric , hydrochloric , and sulphuric acids cause reddening of the black particles ; the same effect is produced , not only upon the sclerotium of Claviceps , but also upon those of , Peziza , and Rhizomorpha .
As none of these are , however , delicate reactions , we lay no stress upon them .
The black particles are very resistant to strong reagents ; thus , as has been stated , they may be boiled in concentrated caustic potash for a considerable time , undergoing thereby only a slight change in colour .
Sulphuric acid causes their disintegration , but they resist the action of nitric and hydrochloric acids for a considerable time ; nitric acid produces some effervescence .
Fig , 24 shows a small piece of the section fig. 4 which has been treated with hydrochloric acid , and then with potassic ferrocyanide ; there is a marked green coloration of the peripheral tufts .
We presume the green is due to the combination of a Prussian blue reaction with the natural brown-yellow colour of the fungus , and that it indicates the presence of iron .
When the section is first cleared and then tested for the presence of iron , it is again observed that the peripheral tufts acquire a faint blue tinge , and , when a portion is highly magnified , numerous blue pigmented bodies , similar to those in fig. 25 , are seen ; they correspond to small collections of brown pigment which are nearly always to be met with in the disintegrating animal tissue surrounding the hyphse ; the iron in the colouring matter is probably for the most part of vascular origin .
Thus a microchemical examination of the dark masses furnishes good evidence of the presence of iron , and this exactly accords with the chemical analysis .
Chemical analyses have been made both by Bristowe and by Lewis and Cunningham , and have revealed the presence of iron .
Bristowe states that a small quantity of ash was left after combustion , and that it contained a little oxide of iron , but much less than a similar quantity of altered blood would have contained after combustion .
According to Lewis and Cunningham , the ash is of a red colour , owing to the presence of oxide of iron , and this fact points to an origin identical with the other pigmentary * De Bart , ' Comparative Morphology and Biology of the Fungi .
' Oxford , 1887 .
f Cord a , * leones Fungorum .
' EXISTENCE OF MORE THAN ONE FUNGUS IN MADURA DISEASE .
deposits in animal tissues .
Spectroscopic examination of the colouring matter of the brown masses does not any way favour a blood origin .
We have ourselves incinerated thick pieces of the large black mass .
The dried particles burn with a luminous flame .
There is a smell of " burnt feathers .
" Heated on the platinum capsule , there is no sputtering whatever , and a residue is left white in the centre but brown at the periphery ; the latter contains iron , giving the Prussian blue test , so that this peripheral distribution of the iron quite accords with the above microchemical observations .
The iron is probably derived from the tissues , and not from the fungus .
Whether the yellow pigmentary substance is of a resinous nature , and similar to that produced by certain species of fungi , it would be difficult to say .
The dried particle burns readily ; it is only very slightly cleared by boiling in carbon bisulphide , benzole , xylol , chloroform , and ether , and the special cupric acetate test for resinous substances fails , there is also no reaction with ferric chloride .
It is clear that , in the " sclerotioid " phase of the fungus , we have to deal with a process taking place in the living tissues which appears to be quite unique , and all the evidence is in favour of the view that the yellow colouring matter is furnished by the fungus .
One specimen of the black variety , from which figs. 11 , 12 , and 17 are made , shows unmistakeably that the tissue is offering considerable resistance to the invasion of the parasite , and that in consequence the latter is altered in appearance .
The tufts are radiate , but , instead of the ends of the hyphse being loosely arranged , they are grouped into a dense palisade , as seen in fig. 17a ; some are thickened and club-like , and they are invested by either phagocytes , fig. 17 , or giant cells , fig. 22 .
The interior of the tuft is occupied by an irregular large cell pseudo-parenchyma , which is slightly pigmented , and between this and the above-mentioned palisade , the hyphse much reduced in size form a deeply pigmented dense zone , figs. 12 and 17a .
This type is interesting to compare with those specimens in which both the tufts are very numerous , and the hyphse run in the one direction , whilst at the same time the destruction of the tissue is great .
As regards the relationship of this fungus to Madura disease , we think that the anatomical evidence brought forward shows that it is pathogenic .
The fungus is scattered in large quantities throughout the tissues , and there appear around it areas of necrosis , of granulation tissue , of phagocytes and of phagocytic giant cells .
The process spreads , and fresh areas of the foot , of the leg , or even of the thigh become invaded by the black particles .
But it is very.extraordinary that in our six specimens we have only met with one in which the peculiar pigmentary metamorphosis was not marked .
Owing to the rapid metamorphosis it seems to us that the cultivation of the fungus from the particles will be difficult .
Two doubtful cases have been recorded by Carter , and the other by Lewis and Cunningham , of the occurrence of the black and white particles in the same specimen .
We likewise possess in our college a specimen in which both black and white particles were MDCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. C found ; but , whether owing to the bad preservation or not , we have always failed in this specimen to demonstrate the tissue changes which could be attributable to the growth of the fungus ; there appears in this specimen no relationship between the black fungus and the tissue , and it is very possible that the black particles may have fallen into the cavities of the foot , from being placed in the same vessel along with specimens of the black .
On the other hand , the presence in the same foot of two distinct parasites , or of one parasite succeeding the other , is far from being an impossibility .
The case of Bassini , mentioned at the commencement of this paper , is interesting in connection with the pathogenicity of this disease .
In this case the patient pricked his foot in an Ox stall .
The wound healed , but a tumour gradually formed which broke upon the surface , and , between the seventh and eighth month after the injury , prevented walking .
The tumour , which had reached the size of a pomegranate , was removed ; it was found to be pervaded by dark brown or black particles varying in size from a pin 's head to a hazel nut , and there were numerous fistulse from which the black particles protruded .
As previously mentioned , treatment with caustic potash revealed a septate mycelial fungus .
Bassini did not succeed in cultivating it .
The White Variety of Madura Disease .
Of this variety we have examined sixteen cases , and we have found that in those specimens where the characteristic roe-like bodies are present the structure is uniform .
The appearance of a section of a particle under the low power , is well seen in fig. 14 .
It is extremely characteristic , and it appears to us difficult to conceive how it could have been confounded with the black variety .
The particle consists of an aggregation of deeply staining " reniform " bodies and of a radiate external zone .
In this section the particle is seen to be surrounded by granulation tissue , but it may be free in large numbers in the sinuses and be discharged with the pus as the fish-roe bodies .
Usually about the size of a pin 's head they may yet be often found of the size of a pea ; they are most frequently nodular upon the surface .
They are soft and friable , and possess a very light brown or , as it is termed , " ochroid tint , " but they are never yellow , as in Actinomyces .
A considerable number of the observers who have examined these bodies have failed to find any vegetable structure , whilst in the case of those who have recognised a fungus , the descriptions have , we venture to think , been rendered very misleading , owing to confusing the two varieties .
The particles are , to a great extent , concretions of caseous and probably phosphatic materials upon a nucleus which possesses traces of a fungus .
To examine the fungus it is , therefore , necessary to remove as much as possible the foreign materials .
To do this we treat either the free particles or the sections of the particles in the tissue with the various fat solvents .
Thus the particles are heated in absolute alcohol , ether , EXISTENCE OF MORE THAN ONE FUNGUS IN MADURA DISEASE .
11 carbon bisulphide , chloroform , xylol , or benzole , for from a few minutes to half an hour or longer .
Particles treated in this manner are clearer and take up the logwood stain much more readily than untreated specimens ; yet , notwithstanding , their bulk cannot be said to be much diminished ; a quite similar result may be observed in the case of caseous material .
Definite acicular crystals are often met with after treatment with the above-mentioned fat solvents , so that they are probably not fatty .
After these reagents we very frequently employ fuming hydrochloric acid ; this renders the outlines of the fungus sharp , but there is only a slight solvent action .
In contrast to the black variety , strong caustic potash , or Eau de Javelle , cannot be used , as those reagents soon cause the complete destruction of the particles .
This shows that the vegetable structure cannot be very resisting .
For embedding sections we always employ the paraffin ether method ; celloidin gives most misleading results , as may be readily seen by comparing side by side sections prepared in the two ways .
The dark kidney-like masses seen in fig. 14 are most probably fungoid .
They stain very deeply with most aniline and logwood stains , but it is exceedingly difficult , notwithstanding , to make out a definite vegetable structure .
They appear for the most part to be granular , the granules being small and very densely packed .
We have seen , however , in two specimens , unmistakeable evidence of a very delicate branched hyphal network .
One of these cases has been recently described by Dr. Hewlett , * and , from the appearance , he concluded that it was a fungus similar to Actinomyces .
The other case was one examined by Dr. Kanthack .
We have ourselves examined an early and well preserved foot which was sent to us direct from Bombay .
There are no particles visible to the naked eye , but the sections show great leucocytic massing , and the commencement of the formation of minute abscesses and sinuses .
Here and there in the leucocytic centres , small granular reniform or annular masses may be seen which stain only slightly with gentian violet ; here , occasionally , however , very short and extremely delicate deeply stained filaments may be seen in the apparently granular masses but there is no radiation , nor are there clubs to suggest a relationship with Actinomyces .
Fig. 15 shows an appearance also very commonly met with in the particles , namely , the formation of a staining irregular fringe around the reniform bodies .
Examined with the high power , the fringe may be seen to consist of stunted , rather thick hyphse ; sometimes there is a very large number of the stunted projections , and double staining with Hoffmann 's green and eosine may give very striking pictures , the fringe staining green , and the reniform masses a reddish-purple .
The walls of these dwarfed club-like processes may be greatly thickened , and they closely resemble many of the clubs to be seen in the ray fungus .
We have not in our specimens , however , succeeded in tracing the hyphal processes into the central granular masses .
Exceptionally the clubs are long .
A third characteristic of the white particle is the radiate zone which * Hewlett , * Lancet , ' 1892 .
Dr. Hewlett lias very kindly shown us his preparations and given ns material , and we agree with his description .
surrounds the reniform masses .
The appearance of this radiation is extremely well shown in the very distinct high power photo .
, fig. 16 .
Exceedingly delicate straight brush-like processes radiate out for a considerable distance from the central deeply staining mass , whilst between the radii are numerous compressed leucocytes .
In a few cases the slender radii are thicker and more club-like , in others they are represented by thick radiate refractive masses in which no structure can be made out .
Such then are the leading features which we believe can be seen in the roe-like particles ; some of them favour a relationship with , but from others we cannot in our present state of knowledge draw any conclusions .
The deep radiation is a most remarkable phenomenon , and one which has greatly struck both Carter and Lewis and Cunningham ; these observers looked upon them as consisting mostly of fat crystals , and although we also think that fat crystals may greatly increase the radiate appearance , yet we have found the radiate zone , as in figs. 14 and 16 , after prolonged subjection of the sections to the fat solvents mentioned above .
Coupled with these curious facts we have found others equally hard to interpret .
Thus , in addition to the opaque ochroid roe-like bodies , we have met with others , transparent and gelatinous , which , when pressed under a cover slip , exhibited a radiate structureless and refractive peripheral zone ; yet , from microchemical testing , we could draw no conclusions as to their nature .
Similarly , when we read the records of Carter and Lewis and Cunningham , we find that they record cases in which the specimens contained innumerable cayenne pepper-like granules .
Comment upon these various anomalies would be out of place , and therefore , in spite of the fact that although we have examined comparatively a very large number of specimens , we think it would be rash to state that the white particles are always Actinomycotic , and may not in certain cases represent some other parasite .
Conclusion .
The object of this paper has been to show that in the Madura foot disease the white and black particles are of different nature , and to set forth the means whereby these differences can be displayed .
Addendum .
Since this paper was written we have had the opportunity of examining a very large number of specimens of M.adura disease , including fifteen examples of the black variety .
For these we have to thank Professors Greenfield , of Edinburgh , and Hamilton , of Aberdeen , and Dr. Bolleston , of St. George s Hospital , but especially Brigade-Surgeon Lieutenant-Colonel Keith and Dr. Boccaro , of Hyderabad , Sind .
Dr. Boccaro sent to us the MS .
of an analysis of one hundred cases of Madura disease treated in the Hyderabad Hospital , and portion of this was published in the Lancet , EXISTENCE OF MORE THAN ONE FUNGTJS IN MADURA DISEASE .
September , 1893 .
The vast majority of these cases appear to belong to the black variety ; and , with one or two exceptions , the specimens sent to us from Hyderabad , Sind , belong to the black variety .
This points to a local distribution for both the black and the white variety .
We may add , also , that we find considerable differences between the gross anatomical changes met with in the black and white varieties respectively .
Dr. Boccaro finds , in 17 of the 100 cases analysed by him , evidence of the pricks of an Acacia thorn ( the " Babul " ) ; in many of these cases the thorn was found .
He also records a case of mycetoma between the , vertebral column and the scapula .
Dr. Keith has kindly made for us very careful inquiries for the presence of Madura disease in cattle , and has been informed by the Veterinary Surgeon of its occurrence ; in one case in the foot of a Camel .
Dr. Keith will , however , not pronounce a decided opinion till he has had an opportunity of examining a specimen for himself .
Drs. Keith and Boccaro have also inoculated several glycerine-agar tubes for us , but we have not succeeded in cultivating the black particles .
We are , however , expecting more , and , one of us having left for India , we hope shortly to be able to transfer our test-tube experiments to the animal.\#151 ; December 11th , 1893 .
Description of Plates .
PLATE 1 .
Fig. 1 .
Specimen of the white variety , from the Museum of Guy 's Hospital .
There is enormous overgrowth of the foot , and the toes are almost completely buried .
Fig. 2 .
Section of a foot in University College Museum , of the black variety .
There are extensive cavities which were filled with black masses .
Fig. 3 .
A black nodule , natural size , from the preceding specimen .
Fig. 4 .
A section through the preceding , magnified a few diameters .
Fig. 5 .
Section of a small nodule of the fungus in situ in the tissue , in an early stage .
In the fan-shaped semicircular patch a distinct radiation is observed ; in two other patches , cut tangentially , the hollow lumina of the hyphse are seen .
Zeiss , obj .
D. Fig. 6 .
Portion of a small tuft in fig. 4 .
An indication of branching hyphse is seen .
Zeiss , obj .
1-2 ; no eyepiece .
Fig. 7 .
Portion of same , after clearing .
Zeiss , obj .
; no eyepiece .
PLATE 2 .
Fig. 8 .
Another portion of same , after clearing , and equally magnified .
At the periphery the ends of the hyphse tend to form a palisade .
14 PROFESSOR BOYCE AND DR. SURVEYOR ON MADURA DISEASE .
Fig. 9 .
Clarified hyphse from another specimen .
Zeiss , obj .
Fig. 10 .
Portion of fig. 4 , clarified and stained with logwood .
The lighter patches are occupied by the fungus .
The darker stained portions represent granulation and vessels .
Low power .
Fig. 11 .
Fungal tufts from a case of the black variety in St. Bartholomews Hospital .
Obj .
1 in .
Fig. 12 .
The same , under the | in .
obj .
It shows the formation of a palisade at the periphery .
Fig. 13 .
Portion of fig. 10 , showing the termination of a few hyphse in the neorotic granulation tissue .
PLATE 3 .
Fig. 6a .
A coloured drawing of fig. 5 , stained with logwood , a , b , particles , natural colour ; c , granulation tissue .
Fig. 17a .
Portion of the periphery of fig. 12 .
, internal hyphal network and pseudo-parenchyma ; b , denser pigmented zone ; c , the ends of the hyphse , forming the palisade and clubs .
Obj .
y2- .
Fig. 19 .
Coloured sketch of another portion of fig. 13 .
Fig. 21 .
Examples of phagocytosis , from the specimen fig. 12 .
Obj .
y\#163 ; .
Fig. 22 .
A tuft from the same specimen , surrounded by giant cells .
Fig. 24 .
A small portion of fig. 4 , treated with HC1 and potassic ferrocyanide .
The peripheral tufts give a greenish reaction .
Slightly magnified .
Fig. 25 .
Portion of same after clearing , and similar treatment .
There are numerous collections of dark brown granules in the neorotic tissue , which give the Prussian-blue reaction .
PLATE 4 .
Fig. 14 .
White variety of Mycetoma .
Section through a roe-like body .
Obj .
1 in .
' .
, Ficr .
15 .
Another specimen , in which the reniform bodies are not stained , as in the preceding specimen .
The periphery only is stained .
Obj .
1 in .
Fig. 16 .
Portion of the radiate zone in fig. 14 .
Note the compressed cells .
Ebichabt , Ta apochromat .
+ comp , ocular .
^ . .
Fig. 17 .
Examples of large phagocytes , adhering to hyphse in specimen fig. 1 .
Obj .
yjjf .
PHIL .
TRANS .
1894 .
B. PLATE 1 Phil. Trans. 1894.B .
Pl3 .
tor .
PHIL .
TRANS .
1894 .
B. PLATE 4 .

