485 Crustacea..\#151 ; By Edward J. Miers , F.L.S. , Assistant Zoological Department , British Museum .
The Crustacea collected by Messrs. G- .
Gulliver and II .
H. Slater amount in all to 189 specimens , representing 35 species .
All of these are forms that are widely distributed throughout the Indo-Pacific or Oriental Region ( which includes the eastern coast of Africa , the south and east of Asia and islands adjacent , Australia , and the islands of Polynesia ) , with the following exceptions:\#151 ; ( hitherto only known from the Mauritius ) , typus ( original locality not known ) , Balcemon dispar ( hitherto recorded only from the Malayan Archipelago ) , Faltemon hirtimanus ( from Mauritius , Reunion , and the Indian Ocean ) , P. ( from Amboina and the Sandwich Islands ) , and the new species of ( P. gulliveri ) , which is described below .
With two exceptions all the species in the collection belong to the Fodophthalmia .
The following are the sub-tribes represented , with the number of species belonging to each :\#151 ; Sub-Tribe .
No. of Species .
Sub-Tribe .
No. of Species .
Oxyrhyncha 2 Caridea - 6 Cyclometopa 8 Squillidea 2 Catometopa 9 Oniscoidea 1 Oxystomata 1 Gammaridea 1 Faguridea 5 The Crustacea inhabiting the Red Sea have been made the subject of special study by Riippell and Heller , those of Madagascar and the islands adjacent by Hoffmann , of Mauritius and Reunion by Alphonse Milne-Edwards , and of the South African coast by M'Leay and Krauss .
Valuable additions to our knowledge of the Crustacea of the East African coast have been published by Hilgendorf , in Van der Decken 's " Reisen in Ost-Afrika , " where will also be found a conspectus of all the known species of East African Crustacea by Von Martens .
So far as I am aware , however , no species have hitherto been recorded as inhabiting the Island of Rodriguez .
PODOPHTHALMIA .
Decapoda .
Mencethius monoeeros , Latr .
A single specimen , an adult male , was collected by Mr. Slater .
There is probably no species of the Oxyrhynchasubject to greater variations , both in the form and length of the rostrum and anterior legs and in the tuberculation of the cara pace .
Nearly a dozen supposed species of the genus Mencethius have been described , all of which are united by M. A. Milne-Edwards under the single name of M. monoceros ; and although one or two of these forms ( as , for example , the M. tuberculatus , Ad .
and White , from the Mauritius ) appear at first sight to present marked distinctive peculiarities , it is probable that these are no more than individual variations .
The specimen from Rodriguez is of the normal form , in which the carapace is indistinctly tuberculated , the legs nearly smooth , the palm slender , and about twice as long as the fingers , which are not strongly arcuate .
This variety is widely distributed throughout the Indo-Pacific region .
Specimens are in the British Museum from the Gulf of Suez , Mauritius , Eiji Islands , Philippines , and Eastern Seas .
Parthenope h , Linn. Two specimens , males , of this common species were collected by Mr. Slater .
It is probably distributed throughout the Indo-Pacific region , and M. Milne-Edwards records its occurrence in the Atlantic Ocean .
Specimens are in the British Museum from the Red Sea and Mauritius .
This species is not to be confounded with P. spinosissima of M. Alph .
Milne-Edwards ( Eaune Oarcinologique , in Maillard , Notes sir Pile de la Reunion .
Annexe E. , p. 8 , pi .
xviii .
, fig. 1 ) .
Atergatopsis signatm , Ad .
\amp ; White .
A single specimen , a male , was obtained by Mr. Slater .
This specimen is a little smaller than the typical example of this species in the British Museum Collection , from the Mauritius , hitherto its only recorded habitat .
Zozymus ceneus , Linn. One example , a male , of this beautiful but very common species is in the collection obtained by Mr. Slater .
It is found in the Red Sea , at the Seychelles , the Mauritius , Reunion , on the shores of the Indian Ocean , and in the Loo-Choo Islands , Australian Seas , and South Pacific ( Samoa and Eiji Islands and Paumotu Archipelago ) .
Actceodes tomentosu , M.-Edw .
Two specimens , male and female , of this species were collected .
It is found at the Mauritius , and is distributed throughout the Indo-Pacific region ; its occurrence having been recorded from the Red Sea , Mozambique , the Indian Ocean , Nicobars , Sumatra , Sulu Archipelago , Samoa , and Eiji Islands ; and specimens are in the Collection of the British Museum from the Seychelles , Philippines , Sandwich Islands , and Minerva Reef .
A. ciffinis , Dana ( U. S. Expl .
Exp. xiii .
, Crust , i. p. 198 , pi .
xi .
fig. 3 ) , from the Paumotu or Society Islands , differs only in its more CRUSTACEA.\#151 ; EDWARD J. MTERS .
distinctly areolated and minutely granulous carapace , and must be united with this species , as specimens in the British Museum Collection presented by the Smithsonian Institution prove .
Daira perlata , Herbst .
Three examples of this species , a male and two females , were collected .
It is probably distributed throughout the whole Indo-Pacific Region .
Specimens are in the British Museum from the Mauritius , Philippine Islands , Australian Seas , and Minerva reef .
Milne-Edwards mentions its occurrence in the Atlantic Ocean and on the Coast of Brittany , and it has been recorded from the Samoa Islands , New Caledonia , Doo-Choo Islands , and Auckland .
Cymo andreyossii , Audouin .
A single specimen of this curious species was obtained by Mr. Slater .
Its geographical range is probably as extended as that of the preceding species .
Specimens are in the British Museum Collection from the Red Sea and Piji Islands , and it has been recorded from the Loo-Choo and Samoa Islands , Tahiti , and New Caledonia .
The ( 7 .
melanodactylus , of Be Haan ( Eaun .
Japon .
Crust , p. 22 ) , from Java , as described and figured by Dana ( U.S. Expl .
Exp. Crust , p. 225 , pi .
xiii .
fig. 1 ) from specimens collected at the Eiji Islands , is probably as M. A. Milne-Edwards has stated , a variety of this species .
The colour of the fingers is not a constant character in C. andreyossii , but there appear to be two distinct forms ; in one of which the carapace and anterior legs are nearly smooth , and the front nearly entire ; in the other the sides of the carapace and anterior legs are conspicuously granulated , and the front denticulated on its anterior margin .
The form of the carapace is very variable ; it is usually nearly orbiculate , but sometimes longer and broadest in front .
These characters , however , do not appear to be of specific value , as intermediate varieties occur , and forms in all respects identical are found at widely separated localities .
Trapezia riifo-punctata , Herbst .
, var .
maculata } M'Deay .
One example is in the collection , a male , obtained by Mr. Slater .
Specimens are in the Collection of the British Museum from the Mauritius , Red Sea , and Ceylon , and its occurrence is recorded at Zanzibar , the Cape of Grood Hope , Tahiti , the Sandwich Islands , New Caledonia .
The specimen from Rodriguez is of the form figured by Dana ( U.S. Expl .
Exp. Crust , i. p. 256 , pi .
xv .
fig. 4 ) , as T. maculata , of M'Leay ( maculatuSt M'Leay , in Smith Zool. S. Africa , Crust , p. 67 ) .
This variety is distinguished from the typical T. rwfo-pwictata by the form of the frontal lobes , which are obscurely defined and obtuse or rounded , not strongly prominent and acute .
The two or three anterior teeth upon the anterior margin of the arm are truncate or slightly emarginate at their apex , the reel spots , with which the whole animal is covered , are smaller and fewer in number than in the typical variety .
Tetralici caviman , Heller .
Three specimens , two males and a female , were collected by Mr. Slater .
Examples of this species are in the Collection of the British Museum from the Eiji Islands and Australian Seas ; and it occurs also at Tahiti and the Bed Sea and New Caledonia .
Achelous granulatu M.-Edw .
One example , a male , was collected by Mr. Gulliver .
This species is very commonly and widely distributed throughout the Indo-Pacific Begion .
Specimens are in the British Museum Collection from the Bed Sea , Mauritius , Ceylon , the Philippine Islands , Eiji and Sandwich Islands ; and it has been found also at Beunion , Zanzibar , Java , Samarang , and Japan , and New Caledonia .
Gelasimus vo Linn. Pour specimens , males , were collected by Mr. Gulliver , who observed that both this and the following species were very common in the island , burrowing in the sands by the sides of the estuaries rather than on the seashore .
The prominent triangular lobes or teeth on the inner margin of the immobile finger vary considerably in size , and one or even both may be obsolete , as in the species or varieties described as G. cultri/ manusby Adams and White ( Voy .
Samarang , Zool. Crust , p. 49 ) , from the Philippines and Hong-Kong .
Specimens of this species are in the British Museum Collection from Mauritius , Singapore , and the Eiji Islands ; and it has been recorded from the Islands of Nossy-Ealy and Nossy Be adjacent to Madagascar , Zanzibar , Java , Malabar , the Nicobars , and Loo-Choo .
Gelasimus annulipes , M.-Edw .
Six specimens , including males , females , and young , were obtained by Mr. Gulliver , which I refer to this very variable species .
The larger hand and fingers are smooth externally , without indications of longitudinal grooves , or with one obscurely-indicated at the base of the palm , which has a short transverse groove near its anterior margin .
On the inner surface of the palm there is a high prominent oblique granulated crest , and two transverse lines of granules near the anterior margin .
The fingers are granulated on their inner margins , the upper one arcuate , the lower nearly straight .
There is always a tooth near the distal extremity , and usually one at about the middle of the inner margin of the lower finger , sometimes also two or three other tubercles or teeth placed at unequal distances along the inner margins of both the upper and lower fingers ; often , however , these are absent .
Specimens of G. annulipes are in the collection of the British Museum CRUSTACEA.\#151 ; -EDWARD J. MIERS .
from Zanzibar , Ceylon , the Malayan Archipelago , the Philippines , and the Piji Islands ; and it has been recorded from the Islands of Nossy-Paly and Nossy-Be , Madras , and the Nicobars .
Ocypode cordiman , Desm .
Two specimens , a male and a female , were collected .
Mr. Gulliver states that the female taken by him .
was found in a wood , and considers it probable that this species was hibernating in holes at the time of his sojourn on the island .
It has been recorded from the Red Sea , Zanzibar , Mauritius , Reunion , Mozambique , Natal , and the Cape of Good Hope , and its range extends over the whole Indo-Pacific Region ; as specimens are in the British Museum from Ceylon , China , and the Australian Coast , the Samoa Islands , Piji Islands , New Hebrides , and it has also been recorded from the Nicobars , Manilla , Japan , Hong Kong , Loo-Choo , and New Caledonia .
The 0 .
arenaria , Say , which inhabits the Atlantic Coasts of the American Continent , is very nearly allied to this species , young individuals are indeed hardly to be distinguished , but adult specimens may be recognized by the laterally-compressed ambulatory legs , which are smooth ( not granulated as in O. ) , and thickly clothed on the upper and lower margins with dense fulvous hair .
Grapsus pictu , Latr .
A female example of this very variable , common , and widely distributed species was taken by Mr. Slater .
Specimens are in the British Museum from the Cape Verde Islands , St. Helena , S. Africa , the Mauritius , Ceylon , Piji Islands , Galapagos , Peru , California , and New Zealand , and it also inhabits the West Indies and Coast of Plorida .
Geograpsns gray , M. Edw. Three specimens , an adult male and two females , were collected .
The examples obtained by Mr. Gulliver were found by him at some distance from the seashore .
In the younger animal the hands are more granulous , and the series of teeth or spines upon the anterior margin of the arm more acute .
In all the adult examples of this species that I have examined the frontal margin is straight or very nearly so , never bi-emarginate as in the specimen figured by Hilgendorf as the adult of G. rubidus , Stimpson ( Crust , in van der Decken 's Reisen in Ost-Afrika , pi .
v. fig. lc .
) .
This species has been recorded from the Red Sea , Mauritius , Reunion , Zanzibar , Madagascar , the Indian Ocean , Australia , Bonin , New Caledonia , and the Sandwich Islands ; and specimens from the Piji Islands are in the Collection of the British Museum .
Metopograpsus messor , Porskal .
Pour specimens , including males and females , were collected by Mr. Gulliver , who states that he found this species plentifully near freshwater streams in the woods , but never actually on the seashore .
It varies considerably in the marbled coloration of the carapace .
It has been recorded from the Red Sea , Zanzibar , Natal , Persian Gulf , Coast of Malabar , Madras , Ceylon , Bonin , Sandwich Islands^ Tahiti , and New Caledonia , and specimens are in the British Museum from Mauritius , the Eastern and Western shores of Australia , and the Eiji Islands .
The G. thuJcujar , of Owen ( Beechey 's Voyage , Zool. Crust , p. 80 , pi .
xxiv .
fig. 3 ) , is , I believe , a variety of this species .
Sesarma tetragon , Eabr .
Three examples , male and female and young , were collected by Mr. Gulliver who found them in burrows near the estuaries .
In the adult male the fingers are arcuate , and meet only at the corneous excavated tips ; in the young male the fingers are straight .
This species has been recorded from the Red Sea , Mauritius , Zanzibar , Natal , Madagascar , Indian Ocean , Chinese Seas , and New Caledonia .
Specimens from the Eiji Islands are in the Collection of the British Museum .
Sesarma quadrat , Eabr .
Seven examples , males , of a species of Sesarma were collected , which I refer with some hesitation to S. quadratum .
The animal is of a blackish-brown colour ; the carapace has the lateral margins entire , and is slightly granulated on the postfrontal region , with the four truncate frontal lobes well-defined ; the arm has a prominent angulated lobe or tooth at the distal extremity of its anterior margin ; the wrist is uniformly rugose without spines ; the exterior surface of the palm smooth below , slightly granulated toward the superior margin , the upper surface has two small oblique very closely and minutely pectinated ridges , and behind these two or three oblique granulated lines .
Sesarma quadratum has been recorded from Zanzibar , Natal , Pondicherry , and New California ; and there are specimens in the British Museum Collection from Borneo and the Eiji Islands .
The species figured by De Haan , ( Eaun .
Japon .
Crust , pi .
xviii .
fig. 5 ) , under the name of affinis , is probably identical with this species ; also the Sesarma , of Heller ( Voy .
Novara , Crust , p. 63 , pi .
vi .
fig. 1 ) , from Ceylon , Madras , and the Nicobars .
Dr. Hilgendorf , basing his observations upon a large series of specimens from the Indian Archipelago , Malacca , Sumatra , Luzon , Elores , and Timor , states that S. quadratum varies very considerably in the form of the carapace , frontal lobes , and anterior legs , but it is possible that he has confounded two or more species under the above-mentioned designation , as he neither mentions nor figures the minutely-pectinated ridges on the upper margin of the hand , which are characteristic of S. .
( See Van der Decken 's Reisen in Ost-Afrika , Crust , p. 90 , pi .
iii .
fig. 3 and pi .
iv .
fig. 3 .
) Cardisoma carnif , Herbst .
Two examples , a fine adult and a smaller male , were collected by Mr. Gulliver , who found this species burrowing in sandy ground by the estuaries of the streams , CRUSTACEA\#151 ; EDWARD J. MIERS .
but did not observe that it penetrated far inland .
There is usually a small tooth behind the external orbital tooth or spine , but this is sometimes rudimentary or entirely absent : it is present in the smaller , wanting in the larger specimen from Rodriguez .
As the animal increases in age , the body becomes very much more convex over the branchial regions , and is expanded laterally beyond the marginal line , which is hardly distinguishable in the oldest specimens ; one or other of the anterior legs is very greatly developed , and the hair upon the penultimate and antepenultimate joint of the ambulatory legs becomes very long and dense .
Specimens of this species are in the British Museum Collection from the Mauritius , Pondicherry , Philippines , the Piji , Sandwich , and Samoa Islands .
It has been recorded from Zanzibar , the Nicobars , and New Caledonia , and a young example obtained at Madeira is referred by Dana to this species .
Calappa hepati , Linn. Three specimens , two males and a female , were collected .
It is one of the commonest and most widely distributed of the Indo-Pacific This species has been recorded from the Bed Sea , Zanzibar , Natal , Madagascar , the Mauritius , Indian Ocean , Nicobars , Auckland , the Piji and Sandwich Islands , and New Caledonia ; and there are specimens in the Collection of the British Museum from the Seychelles , Ceylon , the Coast of China , the North-east Coast of Australia , the Loyalty Islands , New Hebrides and Samoa Islands .
Bagurus p unctulaius , M. Edw. Three examples of this species , one of the largest and most beautifully-coloured of the genus JPagurus , were collected .
One is an adult female , bearing a large quantity of ova .
It has been recorded from the Mauritius , Bed Sea , Madagascar , Indian Ocean , Nicobars , the China Seas , Tahiti , and the Sandwich Islands ; and specimens are in the British Museum from the Philippines , Australia , and the Piji Islands .
Aniculus typicus , Dana .
Pour specimens were collected .
The recorded localities of this species are the Mauritius , Reunion , Batavia , Manilla , Japan , Auckland , the Paumotu Archipelago , Wakes Island .
Specimens are in the Collection of the British Museum from the Seychelles , Australia , Samoa and Piji Islands .
Calcinus tibicen Herbst .
A single specimen inhabiting a shell of a species of Turbo was collected by Mr. Slater .
This species has been recorded from Zanzibar and the Coast of Natal , the Nicobars , Straits of Balabac , Loo Choo , the Paumotu Archipelago , the Society , Sandwich , Samoan Islands , and Wakes Island .
Specimens are in the Collection of the British Museum from the Pelew Islands and Mozambique .
Calcinus elegans , M. Edw. A female example , with ova , is in the Collection , obtained by Mr. Slater .
Both the anterior legs are unfortunately wanting , but the colouration agrees very well with the descriptions of this species ; the legs of the second and third pair being beautifully marked with broad alternating bands of crimson and white , the tarsi with crimson spots upon a white ground .
This species has been recorded from the Coast of Natal , Loo Choo , the Paumotu Archipelago , Hawaiian Islands , Wakes Island , Tahiti , New Ireland , and Western Patagonia .
Ccenobita rugosa M. Edw. Eourteen specimens of this species were collected .
The greater number of these inhabit shells of Nerita polita , one specimen was found in a shell of the terrestrial Cyclostoma articulatum .
Mr. Gulliver observes of this species that it was often found in perfectly arid places a mile or so from the sea-shore .
It is very commonly and widely distributed throughout the Indo-Pacific Legion , and its range even extends to the Western Coast of America .
It has been recorded from the Led Sea , Zanzibar , Mozambique , Leunion , Natal , Persian Gulf , Indian Ocean ( Ceylon , Madras , Nicobars ) , Java , China Seas ( Loo Choo ) , Australia ( Sidney ) , the Sooloo Sea , Paumotu Archipelago , Eiji and Samoan Islands , Tahiti , and Panama .
To these localities I may add , on the authority of specimens in the Collection of the British Museum , the Mauritius , Coquimbo , and Vancouver Island .
M. Milne-Edwards ( Hist. Not .
Crust , ii .
p. 241 ) states that a specimen from Messina in the Collection of the Paris Museum appears to belong to this species , but may have been wrongly labelled .
Caridina typus M. Edw. To this species I refer a single specimen obtained by Mr. Gulliver , which only differs from Milne-Edwards ' description and figure in having two instead of three minute teeth on the inferior margin of the rostrum , which is proportionately somewhat shorter and deeper than thai of the example figured by Milne-Edwards .
In many of the Caridea the form and number of teeth of the rostrum are so variable that these differences can scarcely be considered as of specific importance ; and it may be that the C. exilirostris of Stimpson ( Proc. Ac .
Not .
Sci. Phil. p. 29 , 1860 ) from Loo Choo , in which the inferior margin of the rostrum is obsoletely 2-3 dentate , represents an intermediate variety of this species .
The habitat of the type-example is unknown , Alpheus laevis , Landall .
A single example , a female with ova , is in the Collection obtained by Mr. Slater .
The antennae are imperfect , the smaller hand is wanting ; the larger hand agrees well with the descriptions and Dana 's figure of the species .
It has been recorded CRUSTACEA.\#151 ; EDWARD J. MIERS .
from the Red Sea , Nicobars , Sydney , Tahiti , and the Sandwich and Fiji or Friendly Islands .
1 ?
( daemon ornafa Olivier .
A large number of specimens of this , one of the commonest , and most universally distributed of the Prawns inhabiting the fresh waters of the Indo-Paeific region , were collected , forty-one in all ; of these , however , but few are in a perfect condition , the greater number having lost one or both of the large legs of the second pair ; and but two or three examples are of full size .
Many of the smaller examples are females bearing ova .
The teeth on the rostrum vary between 6-11 on the upper and 2-3 on the lower margin ; there are usually 8-9 upper and 3 lower marginal teeth The males of this species are at once recognized by the strong greatly elongated second pair of legs , which are closely beset with numerous minute spines , the palm in the adult animal is much longer than the wrist , the fingers are indexed at the tips , the upper often considerably arched , the immobile finger has two , the mobile finger a single strong conical tooth on the inner margin .
In the females and young these characteristics are not nearly so strongly marked , and perhaps some of the smaller specimens ought to be referred to the following species , ( P. dispar ) .
P. reunionensis and P. longimanus of Hoffmann , ( Reoherches Faune Madagascar , Crust , pp. 33 \amp ; 34 , pi .
ix .
, fig. 66 \amp ; 67 , \amp ; 68 , 69 ) , from Reunion , appear to me to be founded respectively on younger and adult examples of this species .
Palaemonornatus has been recorded from Amboina and the Islands of Waigiu and Adenare , the Celebes , Philippines , Tahiti , and Auckland .
There are specimens in the Collection of the British Museum from the Mauritius , Australia ( Moreton Bay ) , the Samoa and Fiji Islands , New Hebrides .
Palaemon dispar , von Martens .
To this species is certainly to be referred a male example in the Collection obtained by Mr. Gulliver .
When adult , P. dispcir is distinguished without difficulty from P. ornatus , by its smaller size ; the straighter rostrum , with more numerous marginal teeth , the very unequal legs of the second pair , and the form of the fingers , which , in the male , each have a series of conical acute spines on their inner margins .
Hitherto P. clispar has been recorded only from Adenares Island , near Flores , in the Malayan Archipelago , but it may have easily been confounded with other species of this very difficult genus .
The P. alphonsianus of Hoffmann ( Rech .
Faune Madagascar , Crust , p. 35 , pi .
ix .
, fig. 63-65 ) from Reunion is in all probability synonymous with it .
'Palaemon hirtimanu , Olivier .
One specimen , a male , is in the Collection , obtained by Mr. Gulliver .
In this example the large leg of the second pair on the right side has been broken off above the second joint , and its place is supplied by another leg , evidently newly-formed , and very small and weak , but well-proportioned in all its joints .
This species has been recorded from Mauritius and Reunion , and the Indian Ocean .
JPalaemon( Leander ) , Dana .
No fewer than fifty-six specimens were collected , but a considerable number of these are more or less imperfect .
Like all the species of this sub-genus , P. debilis is of small size , never exceeding 2 in .
in length .
This species is distinguished by the form of the slender rostrum which is directed upward in its distal half , and bears on the upper margin close to the extremity a small tooth ; the apex thus , in some specimens , appearing bifid .
The number of teeth upon the upper and lower margins is very variable .
Of thirty-nine specimens from Rodriguez in which the rostrum is perfect , fourteen have five teeth upon the upper and six on the lower margins , exclusive of the sub-apical tooth ( |-2 ) ; but beside this , which appears to be the normal form , there are no fewer than nine varieties , as shown in the following table:\#151 ; \#151 ; Dental formula .
No. of Specimens .
\#151 ; Dental formula .
No. of Specimens .
Pal .
debilis |2 14 var .
e P 3 var .
a P 5 \#187 ; f |2 2 \#187 ; *\gt ; #2 5 \#187 ; \#187 ; 9 P 1 \#187 ; c T2 .
4 , , h P 2 *2 2 \#187 ; J l2 1 The second pair of legs are very small and slender , resembling those of the first pair .
The specimens described by Dana were collected at the Sandwich Islands ; Von Martens records the occurrence of this species at Amboina , at the mouth of the Weynitu River , in salt-water ; Mr. Gulliver , on the other hand , found it in the freshwater streams of the Island of Rodriguez .
The species of the sub-genus Leander are , I believe , generally marine , those of JPalaemon fluviatile .
Dana has figured a variety of P. debilis from the Hawaiian Islands , to which he has applied the name of P. attenuatus ; having six teeth on the upper and nine on the lower margin of the rostrum .
Stomatopoda .
Lysiosquilla m , Lam .
A single large male example ( length nearly 13 in .
) was obtained by Mr. Slater .
This species has been recorded from the seas of Asia and Japan .
Specimens are in the Collection of the British Museum from the Indian Ocean , Philippines , Samoa and Piji Islands .
On account of its large size , and the colouration of the segments of the body , which are marked with broad alternating bands of black and yellow , this species is perhaps the most conspicuous of the Stomatopoda .
CRUSTACEA.\#151 ; EDWARD J. MIERS .
Gonodactylus Pabr .
Two specimens of this species were collected .
The largest of these , an adult male , has a length of nearly 3^ in , It is a very common and widely distributed species , and its range probably extends throughout the warmer latitudes of the globe .
There are specimens in the Collection of the British Museum from the Mediterranean , Bed Sea , Zanzibar , Indian Ocean , Ceylon , Western , Southern , and North-eastern Australia , Sir C. Hardy Island , Philippine Islands , New Hebrides , Piji Islands , and Panama .
It has been recorded from Natal and Beunion .
EDRIOPHTHALMIA .
Isopoda .
Oniscus ?
( sp. ) Piye specimens of a species of Terrestrial Isopod , probably belonging to the genus Oniscus or JPorcellio , are in the Collection obtained by Mr. Gulliver , who states that this species is common under stones .
In all these specimens both antennae and uropoda are wanting , and it is therefore impossible to ascertain even the genus to which they ought to be referred with certainty .
The posterior margins of the first three segments of the body are straight , the terminal segment almost T-shaped , the posterior half being very narrow .
Prom P. truncatus , M. Edwards ( Hist. Not .
Crust , iii .
, p. 171 ) inhabiting the Mauritius , this species differs in the form of the terminal segment ; from a species described under the same name by Brandt ( Bull .
Mosc .
Soc. Not .
vi .
, p. 181 ) , but placed in a different section of the genus by Milne Edwards ( 1 .
c. p. 173 ) , from the Cape of Good Hope , in the form of the head , in which the front is scarcely at all prominent , the anterolateral lobes large and rounded .
Amphipoda .
Talitrus gulliveri .
T. gulliverii Miers , Ann. Mag. Not .
Hist. ser. 4 , xvii .
, p. 406 ( 1876 ) .
Slender , smooth , with the buccal organs considerably projecting , as in T. Head small , with the anterior margin straight , eyes round , black .
Second and third segments of the postabdomen with the posterior margins straight , the inferoposterior angle somewhat prominent and acute .
Superior antennae scarcely as long as the head and about reaching to the extremity of the second joint of the inferior antennae , with seven joints exposed , the basal very short , the two next longer , subequal , together about as long as the four last joints , of which three are equal and the last minute .
Inferior antennae slender , not as long as the body , with the basal joint of the peduncle very short , the second joint more than half the length of the third joint , the flagellum about eighteen-jointed and rather longer than the peduncle .
Pirst and second pairs of legs small and weak ; the first pair with the three last joints short , subequal , and not dilated ; the second pair ( in some specimens ) longer , with the palm slightly dilated and the finger quite rudimentary as in T. platycheles .
Next three pairs of legs short , sixth and seventh pairs considerably longer , with the second joint moderately developed .
Eami of the fourth and fifth pairs of tail-appendages subequal , those of the fourth shorter than those of the fifth pair , sixth pair quite rudimentary .
The distal extremities of the joints of the antennae , the legs , and the rami of the postabdominal appendages are fringed with short hairs .
Length about 5 lines .
This species was found by Mr. Gulliver under stones in damp places , but never observed actually in the water .
I feel no hesitation in referring this species to the genus , as in none of the specimens are either the first or second legs largely developed and subcheliform as in other genera of Orchestiidce .
It differs from the common European T. locusta in its much shorter and slenderer inferior antennae , and in the form of the segments of the post-abdomen ; the posterior margins not being sinuated as in that species .
It seems to be more nearly allied to T. pla , Guerin .
( Exped .
Scient .
Moree , Zool. Crust , p. 44 , pi .
xxvii .
, fig. 4 ) , but differs in the proportionate length of the joints of the peduncles of the antennae , in the larger second pair of legs , and sixth and seventh pairs of legs , and in the more obtuse infero-posterior angles of the post-abdominal segments , \amp ; c.

