On some of the Compounds of Chromium .
By Thomas Thomson , M.D. F.R.S. L. and E. Professor of Chemistry , Glasgow .
Read March 29 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 159 .
] The principal object of this paper is to give an account of a singular compound of chromic acid and chlorine , discovered some years ago by the author ; but in the investigations to which it gave rise , the author was led to a more careful examination of the oxides of chromium than they had before , undergone , and to a knowledge of their composition .
An account of these researches he therefore proposes to give in this communication .
He begins by describing metallic chromium .
That used by him was reduced by Mr. Cooper : it was white , with a shade of yellow , very brittle , not sensibly attracted by the magnet even in fine powder .
Its specific gravity was 5 093 .
Nitric acid boiled on it has no effect , and aqua regia scarcely any , unless the action be very long continued .
When heated , however , with a mixture of potash and nitre , it is converted into chromic acid ; 3-14 grains of the metal , thus treated , yielded by solution and precipitation 16-23 of chromate of lead , giving for the weight of an atom of chromium 3*966 , or in round numbers 4 000 .
The author 's stock of metallic chromium was so small as to prevent the repetition of the experiment .
The author next describes the green oxide of chromium .
This is easily produced by the action of de-oxygenizing agents , such as alcohol , sulphurous acid , or sulphuretted hydrogen , on chromate of potash .
When thus obtained it is in the state of a hydrate , containing --,1tths of its weight of water , and easily soluble in acids .
A moderate heat , however , expels the water , and leaves the oxide insoluble in any acid .
When further heated nearly to redness , it glows , or becomes of itself suddenly intensely red hot .
Its atomic weight cannot be determined from its salts , as it forms none , -at least crystallizable and definite enough for the purpose ; but as we know that of chromic acid to be 6*5 , if we can determine the number of atoms of oxygen to be abstracted to convert it into green oxide , that of the latter will be known .
To this end the author deoxidized the chromate of potash by sulphuretted hydrogen .
Hydrosulphuret of chromium , composed of its ingredients , atom to atom , fell in the state of a green powder soluble in acids .
The liquor , after driving off the redundant gas by heat , was found to be a solution of hyposulphite of potash .
To avail himself of this fact , however , it became necessary to investigate the composition of the hyposulphurous acid .
This he effected as follows:-he first analysed a crystallized hydrosulphuret of soda , formed on a large scale in certain soda-leys , which he found to consist of 1 atom bisulphuretted hydrogen , +1 atom soda , +6 atoms water .
Through a solution of this salt he passed sulphurous acid , which converted it into hyposulphite , and threw down just half the sulphur contained in the salt .
The hyposulphite of soda thus obtained gave by analysis a per-centage of hyposulphurous acid , agreeing with 5 as its atomic number , on which supposition it must be regarded as consisting of 2 atoms sulphur , +1 oxygen ; and this composition he states himself to have verified by direct analysis of several hyposulphites .
From this it is easy to derive the composition of the green oxide of chromium , the weight of which thus comes out equal to 5 .
After the description of two compounds , the one of chromic acid and oxide of chromium , and the other of sulphur and the same oxide , obtained by a variation of the circumstances under which sulphuretted hydrogen is made to act on the chromic salts , the author proceeds to relate experiments in which protosulphate of iron was used as the deoxidizing matter .
Whena solution of this salt is mixed with one of chromate of potash , a precipitate falls , consisting of green oxide of chromium and peroxide of iron , which , from considerations and experiments detailed at large in the paper , appeared to consist of four atoms peroxide of iron , and one of green oxide of chromium .
Phosphuret of chromium was formed by subliming phosphorus through red-hot green oxide .
It is stated by Dr. Thomson to consist of 1I atom of phosphorus , and 1 atom of the metal .
This phosphuret , by digestion in nitric acid , was converted into phosphate , consisting , according to the author , of 1 atom protoxide , and 1-iatom phosphoric acid .
No sulphuret could be formed by a similar process .
The author devotes the next section of his paper to a detail of several unsatisfactory experiments for determining the atomic weights of chromic acid and the protoxide , by various processes , in which only partial decompositions were effected .
He next treats of the brown oxide .
It is prepared by passing sulphurous acid through solution of chromate or bi-chromate of potash .
It does not combine with acids ; and when treated with acids , alkalies , or even water , resolves itself into chromic acid and protoxide , of which it appears to be either a mixture or a compound , far from intimate , in the proportion of 1 atom acid to 6 atoms oxide .
The next section of this paper is devoted to an account of the chloro-chromic acid , a remarkable compound produced by making sulphuric acid act on a mixture of 190 parts of bichromate of potash , and 225 parts of common salt .
From this mixture , on applying heat , ,it separates in red fumes , and distils over in a liquid of a rich deep crimson colour , of a sweet astringent acid taste , and strong smell of chlorine .
Specific gravity nearly twice that of water , with which it does not mix , but which decomposes it , evolving chlorine and producing heat .
This liquid dropped into oil of turpentine or alcohol , or when poured on sulphur , sets them on fire ; but ( what is remarkable ) it not only does not fire phosphorus , but even extinguishes it when already inflamed .
On other combustibles and metallic bodies it acts with great energy , but without producing ignition .
In ammoniacal gas , however , it burns vividly .
When heated per Sc , the chlorine escapes , and a substance resembling green oxide re314 .
mains .
Dr. Thomson analysed it by solution in water , saturation with carbonate of soda , and precipitation by solutions of baryta and silver ; and states its composition from such analysis , to be chromic acid and chlorine , atom to atom .
The fifth section of this paper is devoted to an account of the salts of chromium .
They are formed by the union of the green oxide with acids , and are all uncrystallizable , and of very intense colours .
They are not precipitated by sulphuretted hydrogen .
Gallic acid precipitates them green .
Prussiate of potash only changes their colour to brown , and throws down no precipitate .
Ammonia and potash throw down green oxide , which re-dissolves in excess of the latter .
The muriate of chromium always contains an excess of acid , and is deliquescent .
When this is driven off it becomes a chloride , and is insoluble in water and in acids .
The nitrate also contains an excess of acid , which cannot be neutralized by adding more oxide .
Dried and slowly heated , it is chiefly converted into chromic acid contaminated with a little green oxide .
The sulphate also reddens vegetable blues .
It consists of the acid and oxide , atom to atom , and 3 atoms of water .
The precipitate from muriate of chromium by carbonate of soda , is a di-carbonate with 4 atoms of water .
When bi-carbonate of potash was the precipitant , a penta-carbonate was obtained , which the author regards as a fact not easily explained .
The bi-phosphate precipitates from the muriate on adding phosphate of soda : it is a lively deep green powder ; when dried in a sand heat it contains 5 atoms of water .
Neutral phosphate could not be formed .
The arseniate is very nearly neutral , but a bin-arseniate also exists .
Chromic acid dissolves protoxide , and forms a chromate .
This is precipitated when muriate of chromium and chromate of potash are mixed , and is of a brown colour , and soluble in water .
After describing other salts , as the oxalate , tartrate , and potashtartrate , Dr. Thomson proceeds to give an account of certain chromates not before described .
These are the per-chromate of iron , the di-chromates of lead and silver , and the double chromates of potash and soda and of potash and magnesia .
The author concludes this paper with an account of his analyses of the mineral compound known in cabinets as chromate of iron , which , when examined in a state of purity , he found to consist of 2 atoms of green oxide of chrome , 1 of peroxide of iron , and 1 of alumina , together with a minute admixture of a white matter , apparently a metallic salt , of unknown acid and base , and which , though accompanying specimens from several localities , yet in all was too small in quantity for thorough examination .

