506 Prof. O. Reynolds on Rolling-Friction .
[ June 17 and a current , whose intensity , C , was measured by the tangent galva nometer included in the circuit , was sent through the helix first in on direction and then in the other , and the plane of polarization observed Half the difference of the readings was the rotation produced by th\lt ; current .
If we call 0 this rotation expressed in circular measure , and define Verdet 's constant as the rotation which a unit current in a unit col could produce in unit of length of distilled water , we have e " NO* The result of the series of experiments made was to obtain for w the value to= ( 10_7)4*49 centimetre-gramme-seconds .
Its dimensions obviously are the reciprocal of those of current , viz. [ a\gt ; ] = [ L-iM-*T ] .
If we put our result in a slightly different form we may say that , If plane polarized light passes through distilled water , and the magnetic potential of the water at any two points in the path of the ray differs by unity , then the plane of polarization will be rotated between those points 4| ten-millionths of a unit of circular measure .
Cavendish Laboratory , Cambridge , April 30 , 1875 .
Y. " On Rolling-Friction- " By Professor Osborne Reynolds .
Communicated by Dr. Balfour Stewart , F.R.S. Received May 24 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The motion of a roller or wheel on a surface is always attended with resistance .
Coulomb made some experiments with wooden rollers on a wooden plane , from which he deduced two laws , viz. that the resistance is proportional to the weight of the roller , and inversely proportional to its diameter .
These laws have since been found to apply to other substances , a different coefficient being used in each case .
Beyond this , however , nothing appears hitherto to have been ascertained as regards the nature of this resistance to rolling .
The source from which it springs does not appear to have been made the subject of investigation .
Some time ago it occurred to the author that it was probable that the deformation of the surface of the roller and of the plane , which must take place at the point of contact , would affect the distance which the roller would advance in turning through a certain angle * .
The pressure of the roller on the plane causes a certain temporary indentation and * The Engineer , 27th Nov. , 1874 .
1875 .
] Prof. O. Reynolds ow Rolling-Friction .
507 lateral extension in the latter , so that in passing from one point to another the roller does in truth pass oyer a greater extent of surface than the distance between these points .
A simple experiment was sufficient to verify the truth of this conclusion .
An iron roller 18 inches in circumference was found to roll through something like f inch less than a yard in two complete revolutions when rolling on a plate of india-rubber .
The softness of the india-rubber suffered the roller to indent it considerably ; and hence it might be expected that the effect would be much more apparent than when the roller was rolling on iron or any hard material .
At the same time there is doubtless a certain amount of indentation in this latter case ; and this will probably cause a similar alteration in the distance rolled through , although too- small to allow its being measured .
This falling off from what may be called the geometrical distance , suggested an explanation of the resistance to rolling , namely , that the extension of the surface or surfaces at the point of contact causes the one surface to slide over the other ; and this sliding is accomplished against friction .
In this way we should expect to find the resistance to rolling greatest under those circumstances in which the sliding is greatest , i. e. where the indentation is greatest ; and so far it is in accordance with Coulomb 's laws .
In the case of india-rubber , we find the slipping is very large ; and hence we should expect the resistance to rolling to be large also ; and accordingly we find it so , for it is more than ten times as great as when the roller is on an iron plane .
This very great resistance which india-rubber causes to rolling appears not to have previously caught attention ; and yet it is the natural explanation of the invariable failure which has attended the numerous endeavours which have been made to use this material for the tires of wheels .
| This idea , that the resistance to rolling is due to the friction between the surfaces sliding at the point of contact , naturally leads to the conclusion that it must depend on the coefficient of friction between these surfaces , and that we might expect to diminish the resistance by using oil or any other means of reducing the coefficient of friction .
This was the author 's first impression .
Experiments , however , showed that the effect of oiling the surface , although it did generally reduce the resistance , was very small ; and sometimes it appeared to act in the reverse manner , and increase the resistance .
This conclusion or surmise was therefore wrong ; and the cause of the error was not far to seek .
It consisted in having overlooked the fact that friction not only opposes the sliding of the one surface over the other , but also prevents it to a considerable extent , and thus modifies the deformation which would otherwise take place ; so that any diminution in the coefficient of friction is attended with an increase in the extent of slipping , which tends to balance the advantage gained f by the reduced coefficient .
The truth of this view derives independent support from a circum- .
stance remotely connected with rolling-friction , of which it furnishes an 508 Prof. O. Reynolds on Rolling-Friction .
[ June V explanation .
When the roller rests on a horizontal surface and is ver slightly disturbed , it does not move off , but oscillates backwards and foi wards .
This happens on all kinds of elastic surfaces ; on soft indif rubber the oscillations are both large and continue for some time .
Not if the deformation in the surface of the rubber were complete , there woul be no tendency to bring the roller back ; but since , owing to friction , th india-rubber , under the advancing side of the roller , is prevented from extending while that under the other side is prevented from contracting there will exist a state of constraint from which the surface is endea vouring to free itself by forcing the roller back .
Besides the relative softness of the materials , the curvature of th roller will affect the lateral extension both of the roller and the plane a the point of contact , so that if the roller and the plane were of the sam\#187 ; material there would still be slipping .
This would not be the case , however , between two wheels of the same diameter and material rolling ii contact .
Such is a short sketch of the subject of the paper , a considerable par of which is devoted to the examination and illustration of the exaci manner in which the deformation at the point of contact occurs , and the influence of friction upon it .
The latter part of the paper contains an account of numerous experiments , and their results , which were undertaken as part of this investigation .
The first series of experiments relate to the resistance which an iron roller experiences on surfaces of different hardness .
Cast iron , glass , brass , boxwood , and india-rubber were tried .
Extreme care was taken to make the roller and the surfaces true ; and this was so far successful that on cast iron the roller would roll in either direction when the surface had an inclination of one in five thousand , or , roughly , a foot in a mile .
Comparing the different surfaces , we see that the resistance increases with the softness , although apparently not in the simple proportion ; on boxwood the resistance is nearly double as great as on the harder surfaces , and on india-rubber from , six to ten times as great .
The second series of experiments were to ascertain the actual extent of slipping on india-rubber , both with a cast-iron roller and also with an india-rubber tire glued on to the roller , and rolled on hard surfaces and on plates of india-rubber of different thicknesses .
These experiments bear out the arguments expressed in the first part of the paper ; in fact the arguments were based on the experiments .
There is no intention to imply that the whole of the resistance to rolling is in all cases due to the causes already mentioned .
Under ordinary circumstances the irregularities of the surfaces and the crushing of the material beneath the roller are the chief causes .
And , besides these , two other causes are discussed in the paper as having been brought to light by the experiment , viz. the communication of heat between the compressed material and that which surrounds it , which prevents the material im75 .
] On Multiple Contact of Surfaces .
509 jdiately expanding to the same volume as it previously occupied , and a viscosity of the material , which also renders it slow to expand .
Both es causes are , however , rather connected with the effect of the speed the roller on the resistance than with the residual resistance , which , so r as the surfaces are perfectly true and perfectly hard , appears to be ie to the friction which accompanies the deformation , and is hence tiled rolling-friction .
No attempt has yet been made to investigate the laws of rolling-fric-on , although the author hopes to continue the investigation in this direc-on as soon as he has obtained the necessary apparatus .
At the end of the paper attention is called to certain phenomena con-ected with railway-wheels , which it is thought now , for the first time , eceive an explanation .
Thus the surprising superiority of steel rails ver iron in point of durability is explained as being due as much to the act that their hardness prevents the wearing-action , i. e. the slipping , s that it enables them better to withstand the wear .
Also the slipping teneath the wheel explains the wear of the rails in places where brakes \#187 ; re not applied ; and the severe lateral extension beneath the wheel is hought to explain the scaling of wrought-iron rails .
VI .
" On Multiple Contact of Surfaces .
" By William Spottis-woode , M.A. , Treas .
R.S. Received May 24,1875 .
( Abstract .
) In a paper ** On the Contact of Quadrics with other Surfaces , " published in the Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society ( May 14 , 1874 , p. 70 ) , I have shown that it is not in general possible to draw a quadric surface Y so as to touch a given surface U in more than two points , but that a condition must be fulfilled for every additional point .
The equations expressing these conditions , being interpreted in one way , show that two points being taken arbitrarily , the third point of contact , if such there be , must lie on a curve , the equation whereof is there given .
The same formulae , interpreted in another way , serve to determine the conditions which the coefficients of the surface Y must fulfil in order that the contact may be possible for three or more points taken arbitrarily upon it j and , in particular , the degrees of these conditions give the number of surfaces of different kinds which satisfy the problem .
[ In another paper , " Sir les Surfaces Osculatrices " ( Comptes Rendus , 6 Juillet , 1874 , p. 24 ) , the corresponding conditions for the osculation of a quadric with a given surface are discussed .
| In the present paper I have regarded the question in a more general way j and having shown how the formula ) for higher degrees of contact

