]\gt ; On the and Dispersion of Carbon Dioxide , Carbon Monoxide , and Methane .
By LIVE CUTHBERTSON , O.B.E. , F.R.S. , and MAUDE CUTHBERTSON .
( Received January 2 , 1920 .
) In continuation of previous work* on the refraction and dispersion of gaseous elements and compounds within the limits of the visible spectrum , the refractivities of the gases named above were measured by the authors in 1914 .
Publication of results has been delayed by the war .
CARBON DIOXIDE .
The gas was prepared by heating a mixture of three parts of bichromate of potash and one part of sodium carbonate in vacuo and dryin with phosphorus pentoxide .
It was then Go1ldensed several times in liquid air and impurities pumped off .
But , notwithstanding these precautions , tests by absorption in potassium hydroxide always indicated the presence of a small quantity ( about per cent. ) of unabsorbed gas , which was assumed to be air and was allowed for in calculating the refractive index .
Index .
The refractive index was , as usual , determined for the green mercury line with a Jamin refractometer .
Two trustworthy sets , each of i'our double experiments ( i.e. , with pressure increasing and diminishing ) , gave the following results for at C. and 76 cm .
, 4500 , 4508 , 4504 , , 4507 , 4507 , 4509 .
The mean is 4505 .
The observations were made at the temperature of the room ( about C. ) and between the pressures 30 and 50 cm .
of mercury .
The reduction for temperature was made by means of Chappuis 's coefficient ; that for pressure by * See C. and M. Cuthbertson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 81 , p. 440 ( 1908 ) ; vol. 83 , pp. 149 , 151 , 171 ( 1909 ) ; vol. 84 , p. 13 ( 1910 ) ; vol. 89 , p. 361 ( 1913 ) ; 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 213 , p. 1 ( 1913 ) .
See als6 C. Cuthbertson , 'Phil .
, vol. 204 , p. 323 C. Cuthbertson and E. B. R. Prideaux , 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 205 , p. 319 C. Cuthbertson and E. P. Metcalfe , 'Phil .
Tritns , vol. 207 , p. 135 ( 1907 ) ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 80 , pp. 406 , 411 ( 1908 ) . .
Chappuis , 'Travaux et Memoires de la Comite Internationale des Poids et Mesures , ' vol. 13 , p. 50 ( 1907 ) .
Leduc , ' Comptes ' vol. 123 , p. 744 .
On the Refraction and Dispersion of Carbon Dioxide , etc. 153 In a previous paper , *however , it was pointed out that the practice of reducing refractivities to C. and 76 .
is not convenient for use in many theoretical investigations in the case of gases or vapours which do not conform closely to the laws of Boyle and Gay-Lussac .
What is more often required is a standard which enables direct comparison to be made between the refractive effects of equal numbers of molecules of different gases ; and .
in such cases , we have usually reduced the refractivities to the values they would have had if the number of molecules per cubio centimetre had been equal to the number of molecules in a cubic centimetre of hydrogen at C. and 76 cm .
This value we denote by .
Taking the molecular weight of hydrogen as , and that of carbon dioxide as , the theoretic of a litre of is , Leduc 's experimental density of is ( air ) , and that of air .
Hence the weight of a litre of at C. and 76 cm .
is .
and Previous Work .
There have been nu1uerous previous determinations of the refractivity of carbon dioxide , but few have attempted to attain an accuracy extending beyond the third significant figure .
Among the more recent values which aim at a higher degree of exactitude are the following:\mdash ; Observer .
A Mascart . .
4554 Perreau G. W. Walker Stuckert 4511 Gruschke Koch Our value agrees well with that of Koch .
The discrepancies are , no doubt , largely due to the use of different coefficients of pressure and temperature in the reduction .
Thus , had we used Walker 's temperature coefficient , our result would have been 4512 .
Dispersion of Carbon Dioxide .
The dispersion was measured in seven experiments , in nearly all of which 800 bands were counted .
Table I shows the values obtained .
' Phil. Trans , vol. 213 ( 1913 ) .
C. Cuthbertson and M. Cuthbertson .
Table I.\mdash ; Dispersion of Carbon Dioxide .
Column 3 gives the values calculated from the formula Column 5 gives the observed values , reduced to the standard Previous Work on Dispersion .
The dispersion of carbon dioxide has been measured , in recent years , by Mascart , Perreau , Rentschler , Koch , Stuckert , and Gruschke , and at high pressures by Siertzema and Haas .
The of accuracy attained by these observers is best tested by plotting , the square of the free frequency of the electron ( assuming only one kind to exist ) against for different frequencies .
The points should fall on a straight line .
Tried in this way , the values of Perreau and Siertzema and Haas give the most regular results , and we are happy to find that our values for the dispersive power are in almost exact agreement with heirs .
Thus the three determinations lead to the following values for , the wave-length corresponding to Siertzema and Haas C. and M. Cuthbertson Perreau CARBON MONOXIDE .
The gas was prepared by the action of formic acid on concentrated sulphuric acid in , and , after passing over dry potash and phosphorus pentoxide , was condensed in liquid air boiling under reduced pressure .
The liquid carbon monoxide was then allowed to warm till all uncondensable On the and Dispersion of Carbon Dioxide , etc. impurities had been swept out of the apparatus , and the fraction remaining was boiled off and stored .
On testing by explosion with oxygen no impurities were found .
Refractive Indar .
Four double experiments gave , for the green mercury line , , 3365 , 3364 , 3364 .
Mean 3364 .
These experiments were reduced by the formula Previous Work .
The refractivity has been measured frequently , with the following results at Observer .
) Mascart 3356 Perreau 3365 Koch 3361 Gruschke 3361 Our value agrees well with that of the last three experiments .
Dispersion .
The dispersion was measured in ten experiments , in each of which nearly 600 bands were counted .
Table II gives the results:\mdash ; Table II.\mdash ; Dispersion of Carbon Monoxide .
The values given in column 3 were calculated from C. Cuthbertson and M. Cuthbertson .
Previons Work on The dispersion was measured by all those named above , with remarkably concordant results .
The values of deduced from their figures compare as follows with those derived from our results:\mdash ; Mascart 901 Perreau 890 Koch 901 Griischke 880 Cuthbertson , 899 METHANR Previous ex perimenters have had difficulty in obtaining this gas pure .
Through the kindness of Messrs. Colin Campbell and Parker , of Manchester University , we were supplied with samples purified from hydrogen by the new method which they have devised .
* Refractive Index of Five double experiments with this gas for the green mercury line : , 4412 , 4414 , .
Mean4415 .
Previous Work .
Among recent determinations of the refractivity of methane St. Loria 4468 Kocl ) 4407 These values are not concordant , probably owing to the difficulty of purifying the gas .
Dispersion of Methane .
The dispersion was measured in eight experiments , in three of which 800 bands were counted , and in the rest , 500 bands .
The results are shown in the following Table:\mdash ; * C. Campbell and A. Parker , ' Trans. Chem. Soc vol. 103 , p. 1292 ( 1913 ) . .
Loria , 'Ann . .
Physik , ' vo ] .
29 , p. 606 1909 ) .
Kessler , 'Diss .
Halle , ' 1909 Quoted by Loria in 'Lichtbrechung in Gasen als physikalisches und chemisches Problem S J. Koch , ' Arkiv for Mat .
Astr .
och Fysik , ' vol. 9 ( 6 ) , 1913 .
On the Refraction and Dispersion of Dioxide , etc. 157 Table III.\mdash ; Dispersion of Methane .
The numbers in the third column are calculated from the formula Previous Work on persion .
The same observers measured the dispersion of methane .
Tbeir results are fairly concordant , and we find the slope of our dispersion curve practically identical with that of Koch .
The values of deduced from the figures of others compare , as follows , with our St. Loria 1072 Kessler 948 Koch 883 Cuthbertson 877 The work described above was undertaken with the object of arriving at an estimate of the refractive power of the carbon atom by comparing the refraction and dispersion of oxygen and hydrogen with those of the simplest carbon compounds containing atoms of these gases .
On the assumption that refractivity is an atomic property which is nearly constant , notwithstanding chemical change , the values of , derived from and , should be concordant , while that derived from CO should show an instructive variation due to the unsaturation of the carbon atom .
Moreover , the concordance should be exhibited not only in the refractivity , but in the numerators and denominators of the expression C. Cuthbertson and M. Cuthbertson .
which respectively represent the number of dispersion electrons present ( C ) and the square of their free frequency .
In a previous paper*we have shown that the refraction and dispersion of hydrogen , oxygen , and nitrogen can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; Gas .
Hydrogen Oxygen Nitrogen The numerators of these expressions which , on Drude 's theory , should be proportional to the number of " " dispersion\ldquo ; or " " valency\ldquo ; electrons , are almost exactly in the ratio of 1 , 2 , 3 ; and the free frequencies increase with the valency , though not in the same proportion .
It was , therefore , to be hoped that the corresponding expression for one atom of quadrivalent carbon would have , as numerator , approximately and as denominator a squared free frequency higher than This expectation has not been .
Calculating the formula for the refraction and dispersion of carbon as shown below for the case of carbon dioxide , we obtain the following three expressions:\mdash ; From carbon dioxide From carbon monoxide From methane . .
It is evident that the " " additive law\ldquo ; breaks down completely .
Not only do the refractivities for vary widely , but the hgures corresponding to 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 83 , p. 161 ( 1909 ) .
For carbon dioxide 44,381 44,998 See Table I , column 6 ) Deduct the corresponding values for 26,952 27,366 Estimated refractivity of 17 , From these two values we obtain On the and Dispersion Dioxide , etc. 159 the relative numbers of electrons and the free frequencies are discordant .
The inference must be that the forces which control the motion of a " " dispersion electron\ldquo ; in an atom are profoundly affected by the proximity of another atom in combination with it .
If the two atoms are of the same sort , as in the molecule of an elementary gas , a similar change , perhaps large in amount , must also occur ; but it is probably simpler in character , owing to the faot that the free frequencies in both atoms are originally the same and are altered to the same extent .
On this hypothesis , at any rate , we explain why the integral relation between the formulae for the refractivities of hydrogen , oxygen , and nitrogen can subsist in spite of the which must have resulted in each atom on the formation of the diatomic molecule .
The present paper forms probably the last chapter of a research , begun in 1902 , on the refractivity of gaseous elements and compounds .
The results are to be found in the papers quoted ( p. 152 ) above , and in two papers by one of us , published in the ' Philosophical Magazine.'* We think that a sufficient body of accurate measurements now exists to provide material for testing any theory of atomic structure which may be put forward to account for the optical phenomena .
We have great pleasure in expressing our indebtedness to the Royal Society for the allotment of a grant in aid of the above work , and to Messrs. Campbell and Parker for the gift of pure specimens of methane .
'Phil .
Mag p. 69 ( January , 1911 ) ; p. 692 ( April , 1913 ) .

