9 .
'"Les Causes du Magnetisme terrestre prouvees .
" .
Par M. Pierre Beron .
Communicated by John Lee , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. The author considers the elements of terrestrial magnetism to be , that the force with which the magnetic needle maintains its position is not everywhere the same , and that its declination and inclination vary from one region to another .
These elements , he states , undergo very different modifications , which may be reduced to the following:1 .
Variations with reference to the position of the sun to the south or to the north of the equator ; 2 .
diurnal variations in different regions of the earth ; 3 .
disturbances which proceed from changes of weather , and from volcanic irruptions , and those which are observed during the appearance of the aurora borealis ; 4 .
secular variations .
Adopting the views which have long since been put forward , but without adverting to the opinions of others who have preceded him in the same path , the author refers all the phenormena of terrestrial magnetism to the action of thermo-electric currents , and states , that as we know from climatology the regions of the earth which have the most hetero-thermal seasons , we have data for determining the intensity and direction of the thermo-electric currents in every region of the globe .
The hetero-thernial regions being marked by the isothermals of the most hetero-thermal months , the author distributes the thermoelectric currents into four magnetic systems , in each of which the currents are directed towards the middle , marked by the culmination of the isothermals .
He then endeavours to trace out the general connexion between the thermo-electric currents which he assumes and the magnetic phmnomena as observed in what he terms the American , the Asiatic , the Australian , and the Gallipagos ' magnetic systems .
The extraordinary disturbances in the direction of the needle , he attributes to changes in the regular order of the distribution of solar heat , which give rise to corresponding changes in the thermo-electric currents ; and the secular variation to the amelioration of climate arising from the culture of the soil in different regions of the earth .
The author concludes his memoir with the following remark : ' Le magn6tisme terrestre n'est done que des courants thermo-electriques , et l'aiguille magn6tique est un thermoscope qui nous indique les differences des temperatures des regions hetero-thermes , dont nous connaissons les distances .
Par suite le magnetisme terrestre fait un party de la climatologie , qui exprime la cause de cette anomale distribution de la chaleur pendant chaque saison et pendant chaque mois .
Cette cause se trouve , -1 ?
, dans la conformation geographique de la surface de la terre ; et 2 ?
, dans les deplacements diurnes et annuels de notre planete .
"

