The Description Of an Instrument invented divers years ago by Dr Christopher Wren , for drawing the Out-lines of any Object in Perspective .
SEe Fig. I. wherein A. is a small Sight with a short arm B. which may be turned round about , and moved up and down the small Cylinder CD .
which is screw d into the piece E D.at D. this piece ED moving round about the Center E ; by which means the Sight may be removed either towards R or F. OF is a Rule fastened on to the two Rulers GG , which Rulers serve both to keep the square Frame SSSS perpendicular , and by their sliding through the square holes TT , they serve to stay the Sight , either farther from or nearer to the said Frame ; on which Frame is stuck on with a little wax the paper 0000 , whereon the Picture is to be drawn by the Pen I. This Pen I. is by a small Brass-handle V. so fixed to the Ruler HH , that the point I. may be kept very firm , so as always to touch the Paper .
HH .
is a Ruler , that is always , by means of the small strings aaaabbbb , moved Horizontally , or Parallel to it self ; at the end of which is stuck a small Pin , whose head P is the Sight , which is to be moved up and down on the Out-lines of any Object .
The Contrivance of the Strings is this .
The two Strings aaa , bbb .
are exactly of an equal length .
Two ends of them are fastened into a small Leaden Weight QQ , which is moved in a Socket on the back side of the Frame , and serves exactly to counterpoise the Ruler HH , being of equal weight with it .
The other two ends of them are fastened to two small Pins H.H , after they have been roled about the small Pulleys N. MM .
LL. KK ; by means of which Pulleys if the Pen I. be taken hold of and moved up and down the Paper , the Strings moving very easily , the Rule will always remain in an Horizontal position .
The manner of Using it is this : Set the Instrument on a Table , and fix the Sight A. at what height above the Table , and at what distance from the Frame SSSS , you please .
Then , looking through the Sight A , and holding the Pen I. in your hand , move the Head of the Pin P.up and down the Out-lines of the Object , and the point I. will describe on the Paper 0000 , the Shape of the Object so traced .
Trans. No. 45 Fig. II .
Fig. I C SNS bbaa LMML ba ba

