A paper was then read , entitled , " On a nevvLaw of Combustion .
" By Charles J. B. Williams , M.D. Communicated by W. G. Maton , M.D. , F.R.S. The principal object of this paper is to prove that most combustible bodies undergo a kind of combustion , attended with light and heat , at a temperature considerably below that usually assigned as their point of ignition .
This fact has been already noticed with regard to phosphorus and sulphur ; and the pale blue flame produced in the vapour of ether by a hot palladium or platina wire , before the wire itself becomes vividly ignited , is another instance of the same general law , which the author hnds applicable to all compound , and a few of the simple inflammable bodies .
Of these he gives a variety of exam ?
ples among oleaginous , resinous , and carbonaceous products , both animal and vegetable , which , when thrown on a hot iron , exhibit a pale and faintly luminous flame .
Those on the other hand which are very volatile , such as camphor , the essential oils , ether and alcohol , rise in vapour before they reach the temperature necessary for their combustion ; but they may be made to exhibit the same phenomena , by directing their vapour against a body heated below redness .
The contact of pure oxygen gas immediately heightens the intensity of the light and heat evolved on these occasions , and excites them into a more decided and vivid combustion .
The author next adverts to the nature of the products of this low form of combustion , which , in organic substances , appear to him to form an intermediate link between those of open combustion , and those of fermentation and putrefaction .
He considers the phenomena he has described as confirming the truth of a law he formerly an ?
nounced , namely , that " the evolution of heat during chemical change is , cateris paribus , proportionate to the degree of change from isolation , or weak combination , towards firm and simple union .
" He thinks they will afford an explanation of many cases of spontaneous combustion , which have hitherto been involved in mystery ; such as that of porous combustible matters , as oily cotton , tow , or wool , when accumulated in considerable quantities , in places protected from cool ?
ing , or where air has limited access ; and also of heaps of coal or charcoal , of pyrophori and pyrites ; and the same principles may per ?
haps also account for the phenomena of the spontaneous combustion of the human body which are on record .

