138 Dr. J. Hopkinson .
[ Jan. 23 , The ten stars referred to are to be found within an area of less than two square degrees of the sky , and in the table given are the coordinates of their positions with reference to theta Orionis .
The measurements of the diameters of their photo-images on a scale of 000002 of an inch are also given .
IX ti physical Properties of Nickel Steel .
" By J. Hopkinson , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received January 16 , 1890 .
Mr. Riley , of the Steel Company of Scotland , has kindly sent me samples of wire drawn from the material concerning the magnetic properties of which I recently made a communication to the Royal Society .
As already stated , this material contains 25 per cent , of nickel and about 74 per cent , of iron , and over a range of temperature from something below freezing to 580 ' C. it can exist in two states , magnetic and non-magnetic .
The wire as sent to me was magnetisable as tested by means of a magnet in the ordinary way .
On heating it to a dull redness it became non-magnetisable whether it was cooled slowly or exceedingly rapidly by plunging it into water .
A quantity of the wire was brought into the non-magnetisable state by heating it , and allowing it to cool .
The electric resistance of a portion of this wire , about 5 metres in length , was ascertained in terms of the temperature ; it w as first of all tried at the ordinary temperature , and at temperatures up to 340 ' C. The specific resistances at these temperatures are indicated in the curve by the numbers 1 , 2 , 3 .
The wire was then cooled by means of solid carbonic acid , the supposed course of change of resistance is indicated by the dotted lire on the curve , the actual observations of resistance , howTever , are indicated by the crosses in 1890 .
] Physical Properties Nickel Steel .
130 the neighbourhood of the letter A on the curve .
The wire was then allowed to return to the temperature of the room , and was subsequently heated , the actual observations being shown by crosses on the lower branch of the curve ; the heating was continued to a tem-pei-ature of 680 ' C. , and the metal was then allowed to cool , the actual observations being still shown by crosses .
From this curve , it will be seen that in the two states of the metal , magnetisable and non-magnetisable , the resistances at ordinary temperatures are quite different .
The specific resistance in the magnetisable condition is about 0-000052 , in the non-magnetisable condition it is about 0-000072 .
The curve of resistance in terms of the temperature of the material in the magnetisable condition has a close resemblance to that of soft iron , excepting that the coefficient of variation is much smaller , as , indeed , one would expect it to be in the case of an alloy ; , at 20 ' C. the coefficient is about 0-00132 , just below 600 ' C. it is about 0-0040 , and above 600 ' it has fallen to a value less than that which it had at 20 ' C. The change in electrical resistance effected by cooling is almost as remarkable as the change in the magnetic properties .
Samples of the wire were next tested in Professor Kennedy 's laboratory for mechanical strength .
Five samples of the wire were taken which had been heated and were in the non-magnetisable state , and five which had been cooled and were in the magnetisable state .
There was a marked difference in the hardness of these two samples ; the non-magnetisable was extremely soft , and the magnetisable tolerably hard .
Of the five non-magnetisable samples the highest breaking stress was 50"52 tons per square inch , the lowest 48-75 ; the greatest extension was 33"3 per cent. , the lowest 30 per cent. Of the magnetisable samples , the highest breaking stress was 88"12 tons per square inch , the lowest was 85'76 ; the highest extension was 8"33 , the lowest 6'70 .
The broken fragments , both of the wire which had originally been magnetisable and that which had been non-magnetisable , were now found to be magnetisable .
If this material could be produced at a lower cost , these facts would have a very important bearing .
As a mild steel the nou-magnetisable material is very fine , having so high a breaking stress for so great an elongation at rupture .
Suppose it were used for any purpose for which a mild steel is suitable on account of this considerable elongation at rupture , if exposed to a sharp frost its properties would be completely changed\#151 ; it would become essentially a hard steel , and it would remain a hard steel until it had actually been heated to a temperature of about 600 ' C.

