234 Dr. G. Thin .
Paterson ( James ) Notes on the Lithology of Gas Coals .
8vo .
rington 1881 .
The Author .
Read ( T. Mellard ) Notes on the Southern Drift of England and Wales .
8vo .
Liverpool 1881 .
The Author .
Siemens ( C. W. ) , E.R.S. Science and Industry .
8vo .
London 1881 .
The Author .
Win ( J. M. ) Materialism at the International Medical Congress .
8vo .
London .
The Author .
A Photograph of Colonel Tenant , R.E. , E.R.S. " On Trichophyton tonsurans ( the Fungus of Ringworm ) .
" By George Thin , M.D. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received February 19 , 1881 .
Read March 3 .
[ Plate 2 .
] The disease of the scalp popularly known in England as ringworm is described in medical works under the names herpes tonsurans and tinea tonsurans .
When it occurs on the skin of the body it is known as tinea circinata and also as herpes tonsurans .
The disease is widely spread in the human subject , exists in all climates , and also occurs in the horse , ox , and dog .
It can be communicated from these animals to each other and to man .
It was shown almost simultaneously by Gruby , # in France , and by Malmsten , f in Sweden , that the disease is due to the growth in the hairs and in the horny layers of the epidermis of a fungus which was named by Malmsten Trichophyton tonsurans .
The statements of Malm-sten and Kiichenmeisterf that the parasite is found only amongst the cells which have undergone the horny change , that is to say , in the hair-shaft , between the hair-shaft and the internal root-sheath , and in the horny layer of the epidermis , have been recently confirmed by the evidence of sections made through the affected skin in the horseS and in man .
The parasite is not found amongst the living cells of the epidermis .
* " Comptes Rendus , " \amp ; c. , 1844 , vol. xviii , p. 583 .
( " Vegetaux Para- sites .
" Par Ch. Robin .
Page 417 .
) .f " Muller 's Archiv , " 1848 .
( Swedish original , Trichophyton , Harskarande Mogel .
Stockholm .
1845 .
) X Sydenham Society 's translation .
" On Animal and Vegetable Parasites of the Human Body , " vol. ii , p. 141 .
S Vide a paper by the author , " On the Condition of the Skin in tinea tonsurans , " in the 61st volume , and another by Dr. Frederick Taylor in the 62nd volume , of the " Transactions of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society .
" On Trichophyton tonsurans ( the Fungus of Ringworm ) .
235 The fungus , as at present known , consists of a mycelium and spores , and very little has been determined regarding its nature .
Attempts that have been made to cultivate it artificially have led to contradictory conclusions .
Lowe , in 1850 , * was induced to believe that Trichophyton tonsurans is a spore formation of the fungus of favus\#151 ; a specifically distinct parasitic disease of the skin\#151 ; and that both are forms of Aspergillus .
Neumann , f on the other hand , whilst believing that his cultivation experiments showed that herpes tonsurans and favus are produced by the same fungus , traced it in both diseases to Penicillium glaucum .
Dr. Atkinson , $ again , was led by his cultivations to believe that the fungus belongs to the Mucors , and is probably Mucor mucedo .
The reason why the botanical relations of the parasite to the common fungi have been so difficult to determine has been stated by De Bary .
" If , " he remarks , S speaking of the vegetable parasites of the skin , " the parasites , when removed from the bodies of their hosts , are cultivated in water , sugar solution , \amp ; c. , the vegetation of their spores is then observed , and after a short time there appears in the fluids the universally wide-spread fungi , , Aspergillus glaucus , or Torula .
The latter and the mycelium of Peni-cillium resemble more or less the spores and mycelium of the parasites in question , and , being found in immediate contact with them , it seems as if they had been developed from them in the artificial medium .
" Kobner , || who endeavoured to solve some of the problems connected with the development of the parasite by clinical experiments , found that Trichophyton tonsurans , when inoculated on the skin , produced only herpes tonsurans , and that he could not produce this disease by inoculation with Penicillium-glaucum .
A strong reason exists , independently of experimental results , for believing that trichophyton is not a form of the common fungi .
The facility with which ringworm is communicated from one child to another by contact , or by interchange of caps , shows that the fungus takes root easily on the scaip , whilst , as many a country medical practitioner can testify , bareheaded children may be exposed indefinitely to contact with all the spores with which the atmosphere is pregnant without a single instance of the disease being produced .
In endeavouring to cultivate Trichophyton tonsurans artificially , it was clear to me that one of the chief difficulties to be overcome was to * * * S * " Botanical Transactions .
" Edinburgh .
1850 .
+ " Lehrbuch der Hautkrankheiten .
" 2nd edition .
+ " On the Botanical .Relations of the Trichophyton .
" " New York Medical Journal , " December , 1878 .
S Hofmeister 's * ' Handbuch der Physiologischen Botanik , " Band 2 , Abth .
1 , p. 224 .
|| " Edinische und Experimented Mittheilungen .
" Erlangen .
1864 .
Dr. G. Thin .
avoid confusing accidental growths of common fungi with the spores and mycelium of the parasite .
The size of the spores and mycelium is not to be relied on for this purpose , but their arrangement in an affected hair offers facilities for ascertaining whether in any given case trichophyton has developed .
When a hair is extensively affected with ringworm fungus , the root for a considerable extent is loaded with spores in all its thickness , and along its free borders the spores on the extreme edge can be seen under the microscope with perfect distinctness .
It was thus evident to me that if there tv ere observed at an early stage of the cultivation a growth of those spores in the sides of the hairs which from their position could be recognised as ringworm spores , the fallacy of deception by admixture of adventitious fungi would so far be avoided .
At an early stage of my investigations , Mr. Banham , of the Brown Institution , showed me a preparation in which ringworm spores had in considerable numbers pushed out a tubular projection , by which their length had become at least double their breadth , and which was evidently the beginning of growth .
This growth had taken place in a prepared cell in a drop of aqueous humour , but Mr. Banham informed me that he had not succeeded in getting the cultivation to go farther .
The first attempts I made at cultivation were with ringworm hairs , which had been kept in my house for varying periods , having been put aside for the purpose of the investigation ; but , after a series of negative results , I confined myself entirely to hairs freshly extracted from the heads of children affected with ringworm .
These were usually put in the different solutions with which I experimented within periods varying from a quarter of an hour to two hours .
When these ringworm hairs are placed in contact with fluids at a high temperature ( 92 ' to 98 ' F. ) , the spores soon show an outer surface or capsule , containing a spherical mass within it .
This seems to be to a great extent independent of the nature of the fluid , and it is very apt to be mistaken for the first beginning of growth .
When growth does not take place the appearance remains stationary .
A variety of solutions were tried without result .
These were used at first in cells , the hair being laid on the inner surface of the cover-glass of the cell and a drop of the solution placed over it .
The hair was sometimes covered with the drop and sometimes only moistened ; in the latter case a ring of damp blotting-paper was placed in the bottom of the cell , to prevent evaporation .
The cells were then placed in an incubator .
The temperature within the incubator varied during the course of the experiments between 92 ' and 98 ' F. , but was mostly from about 96 ' to 98 ' .
As these negative results afford evidence that Trichophyton tonsurans and the fungi usually present in the atmosphere are essentially different , they are worthy of being recorded .
On Trichophyton tonsurans ( the Fungus of Ringworm ) .
237 Experiments .
1 .
With the following solution :\#151 ; Sod\#163 ; e Phosph ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1 grm. Ammon .
Tart .
... ... ... ... ... ... .
10 , , Aquae distill ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1,000 cub. centims. , which I found had been in use in cultivation experiments at the Brown Institution .
Thirteen cells with ringworm hairs in contact with this solution were placed at different times in the incubator , viz. , two for three days , three for four days , five for six days , two for nine days , and one for fourteen days .
There was no growth of trichophyton in any of them .
Some minute particles of bread , on which common mould had been sprinkled , were placed in a drop of the same fluid in a cell , and placed in the incubator .
Long mycelial threads grew on the under surface of the cover-glass .
Again , a piece of bread slightly mouldy at some points was soaked in the same fluid , and with ringworm hairs placed on it , was put into a bottle , and the bottle placed in the incubator .
The roots of the hairs were found entwined with a rich mycelial growth of fungi , considerably larger than the fungus of ringworm , but the spores of trichophyton could be seen after preparation and maceration in potash to be undeveloped .
2 .
A fluid ( known , I believe , as Cohn 's fluid ) with the following composition:\#151 ; Magnesium Sulphate ... ... ... .
1 grm. Potassium Nitrate ... ... ... ... ... .
1 grm. Calcium Phosphate ... ... ... ... 0'2 grm ' .
Distilled Water ... ... ... ... ... .
500 cub. centims. One per cent , ammonium tartrate to be added before use .
Two cells charged with ringworm hairs and the above fluid were placed at different times in the incubator , one for two and the other for eight days .
The fungus grew in neither .
Two hairs containing spores were floated on the surface of the fluid in a test-glass , and placed in the incubator for four days .
There was no growth .
Other ringworm hairs , placed in a small tube , were sunk at the bottom of the same test-glass .
There was again no growth .
Ringworm hairs were placed on bread soaked in the fluid , the bread being then put in a bottle and placed in the incubator for four days .
The hairs were found enveloped in aspergillus .
Trichophyton spores had not grown ; being found after maceration to be in the same condition as in a diseased hair freshly extracted from a ringworm patch .
Dr. G. Thin .
3 .
Milk.\#151 ; The milk used had been purified by boiling in a water bath , and bad been kept pure in purified glasses , according to the method described by Mr. Lister.* The results of the experiments were negative , but are in other respects interesting .
A hair from a patch of ringworm was placed on the surface of milk , in a glass otherwise kept pure and set aside at the room temperature on the 16th March .
It was taken out on the 27th , a fungus growth having been visible to the naked eye for several days .
The root of the hair was found enveloped in JP en When the hair had been macerated in a solution of potash it was seen that it had been healthy , and it contained no ringworm spores .
1 wo hairs , which turned out to be ringworm hairs , were kept on the suiface of milk for eighteen days .
There was large development of fungus , but I could obtain no evidence that it had any connexion with the ringworm spores .
A supposed ringworm hair , after being on the surface of milk for three days in the incubator was found enveloped in fungus , but maceration in potash showed that there was no trichophyton in the hair .
A ringworm hair in a tube at the bottom of the milk glass in two days in the incubator had developed nothing .
Two experiments showed that even with milk the development of a fungus does not necessarily follow when protected pure glasses are used .
A supposed ringworm hair was placed on pure milk in a protected glass in the incubator lor three days .
No fungus of any kind grew , and maceration of the hair in potash showed that the hair was not effected with trichophyton .
Another supposed ringworm hair , but which subsequent examination showed to contain no spores , was placed in pure milk in a protected glass for thirteen days without any fungus developing .
My attempts to grow trichophyton in milk thus failed .
In connexion with Mr. Lister 's experiments on the lactic fermentation , it may be worthy of remark that the glasses used were all charged with pure milk by the method he has described , and that the milk remained unchanged until they were used for these experiments .
With the introduction of the hairs bacteria were necessarily also introduced , but the glasses being immediately protected , no other bacteria than those adhering to the hairs were present .
The hairs , after they were extracted from the patients ' heads , had been kept in paper until they were brought in contact with the milk .
Various although usually very slight changes took place in the appearance of the milk , but in none of the glasses did the common lactic fermenta* " On the Lactic Ter mentation .
" " Transactions of the Pathological Society of LondonT vol. xxix .
On Trichophyton tonsurans ( the Fungus of Bing worm ) .
239 tion occur , so far as a curdled condition is evidence of that change .
A thin stratum of clear fluid in one case appeared on the surface of the milk , but to a much less extent than in ordinary curdling .
4 .
Aqueous Humour\#151 ; Two experiments only were made with aqueous humour the cells charged with it being placed in the incubator .
In one after five days there was no growth of the ringworm spores ; m the other during forty-eight hours , a bulging had taken place from some of the spores , evidently the beginning of growth .
On account of the neater convenience in getting large quantities of fluid vitreous humour was used instead of aqueous humour in subsequent expen5 .
Tap Water.\#151 ; A ringworm hair , moistened with tap water , was placed in the incubator .
During nine days there was no growth .
6 .
Carrot Infusion\#151 ; One cell was prepared with carrot infusion .
During four days no growth took place .
7 .
Salt Solution.\#151 ; Strength 075 per cent. A cell thus prepared was placed in the incubator for five days : no growth .
Hairs were floated on the solution in a glass in the incubator for six days without growth of trichophyton spores .
8 .
Turnip Infusion\#151 ; Bread , soaked in turnip infusion , was placed in a box and ringworm hairs placed on the bread at different points .
The box was covered and placed on the top of the incubator , where the heat was less than inside .
After four days the bread was found covered with fungi .
The ringworm hairs were picked out , macerated in potash , and examined .
' All the spores were round , and there was no appearance on the sides of the hairs of bulging or early mycelium formation .
Ringworm hairs were floated on pure turnip infusion in protected glasses , and placed in the incubator for five days .
They were then examined .
The spores observed in the hairs were all round , and there was no growth from the sides .
Another experiment of the same kind in which the hairs were examined after four days , showed a like negative result .
In another similar experiment the hairs were found after eight days imbedded in fungus , Penicillium glaucum .
The hairs , when examined , were seen to be full of spores , which had not sprouted from the sides in the least degree ; those which were lying on the extreme edge of the hair being found round and unchanged .
In two cells charged with diseased hairs , minute morsels of bread and turnip infusion , and placed in the incubator , no ringworm growth took place during four days ; and another experiment , in which the haiis were floated on the infusion and-kept in the incubator for seven days , also showed a negative result .
The attempts to grow trichophyton in turnip infusion thus all failed .
Dr. G. Thin .
9 .
Egg Albumen.\#151 ; Seven attempted cultivations with egg albumen in the incubator , and one at room temperature , also one with acid albumen in the incubator , conducted in the same manner as those already described , all failed .
10 .
Egg Albumen and Potash.\#151 ; Four attempted cultivations with albumen , to which a small proportion of solution of potash had been added , also failed .
In two of them the hairs were floated on the surface of the fluid in glasses placed in the incubator ; in the other two the hairs had been sunk to the bottom .
11 .
Vitreous Humour and Potash.\#151 ; Three cultivation experiments with vitreous humour and potash , similarly conducted , in one of which the ringworm hairs were floated on the top , whilst in the other two they were sunk to the bottom , also failed .
12 .
Vitreous Humour.\#151 ; As vitreous humour is the only fluid with which I have succeeded in cultivating trichophyton , and as , even with this fluid , special conditions are necessary , it is desirable to describe the experiments and mode of procedure in detail .
It will be convenient to divide them into\#151 ; 1 .
Cultivation in cells at incubator temperature ; no growth taking place .
No. of days No. of cells .
in incubator .
Remarks .
3 ... ... 4 4 5 3 7 5 9 * ... ... . .
No. of days in incubator .Tiie cells were\gt ; during these periods , examined daily , and immediately afterwards put back again into the incubator .
Those regarding which it is remarked that the time was not noted are the cells which were used in the earlier experiments .
They were kept a long time , and frequently examined , the date on which they were finally taken out not being noted .
In the earlier of these experiments , the hairs used had been extracted for some time from the patients , and had been kept folded in paper .
This may possibly have had something to do with the negative results. .
On Trichophyton tonsurans ( the Fungus of ) .
241 In a large proportion of them , however , freshly extracted hairs were 11 ^ Cultivation in cells at room temperature .
No growth took place .
No. of days .
No. of cells .
3 .
About the time when the experiments refei'red to in the above tables were ended , it occurred to me that the reason why the spores did not grow was because the hairs were submerged in the fluid .
Acting on this idea , I moistened the under side of the cover-glass of the cell , taking care that the roots of the hairs used were not covered with the fluid .
For the first time I obtained evidences of undoubted growth .
The convenience of the cell for such experiments was now well shown , as I was able to observe the earliest evidence of mycelial growth from the spores on the sides of the hairs without disturbing the preparation , which could be put back again into the incubator without any part of it being moved .
In these instances there was no possibility of a mistake being made by confounding adventitious fungi with trichophyton .
The spores of the latter could be examined in situ through the cover-glass , and as germination took place the spores could be seen elongating into a mycelium from their original position on the edge of the hair .
In three cells prepared in this way trichophyton grew .
The first appearance of elongation in the spores was observed after the preparation had been a few hours in the incubator , the hairs having been transferred from the head of the child to the incubator after a very short interval .
During the two following days the growth went on to the formation of mycelium .
The mycelium , however , ceased to grow after having attained a very moderate length ; spore formation soon beginning to take place .
( Similar cells prepared in the same way with Cohn 's fluid and with hairs from the same patch showed no signs of growth .
) The disadvantages associated with this mode of cultivation were found to be the following :\#151 ; It was difficult to hit on the right quantity of fluid .
If there was too much the spores did not grow , and if there was too little they did not grow , and when the quantity happened to be sufficient to encourage germination it was not enough to maintain growth after the mycelium had attained a comparatively limited length .
This difficulty was got over in the following way :\#151 ; 4 .
When the hair was laid gently on the surface of vitreous humour in a test-glass , it did not sink , and by simply floating the hairs I was able to secure the requisite conditions of moisture without immersion .
Dr. G. Thin .
The vitreous humour used had been .
prepared in the manner described in a paper on Bacterium foetidum ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " No. 205 , 1880 ) , and the hairs were laid on this pure fluid , and placed in the incubator in protected glasses .
The only source of contamination was the organisms that were introduced with the hair .
Experiment showed that whilst in all cases there was a free development of bacteria , the development of adventitious fungi was frequently avoided .
The following table gives the results of twelve cultivations made by this method :\#151 ; Cultivations on the surface of Vitreous Humour in Test-glasses in the Incubator .
No. of Growth of No. of days experiment .
trichophyton .
in incubator .
Remarks .
1 2 No. No. 6 g Adventitious fungi grew .
3 Yes .
3 4 Yes .
2 5 Yes .
2 6 Yes .
4 7 No. 8 8 9 Yes .
Yes .
8 3 Slight growth .
10 Yes .
7 11 Yes .
3 Slight growth of trichophyNo .
ton : much adventitious fungi .
12 6 Growth of aspergdlus .
One experiment was made to ascertain whether trichophyton could be cultivated at ordinary temperatures .
On the 20th April several ringworm hairs were placed on the surface of vitreous humour in a protected flask , which was put aside and kept at the ordinary temperature of the work-room .
On the 3rd May the hairs were examined .
Trichophyton was found to be growing from their edges , but the growth was not so luxuriant as it was usually found to be after two days ' cultivation when the test-glass was kept in the high temperature of the incubator .
In one recorded experiment the hairs extracted from a ringworm patch did not happen to contain trichophyton .
After three days ' cultivation in the incubator no fungus of any kind had grown .
Several other similar experiments , which were not accurately noted , showed that if a hair which did not contain trichophyton was not much exposed before being placed on the vitreous humour , the On Trichophyton tonsurans ( the Fungus of Ringworm ) .
24o o-lass containing it might be placed for several days in the incubator recorded in thif table that although the method may be relied on for the cultivation of ringworm fungus , it cannot be considered certain . .
, I am not able to account for the failures recorded m experiments j o 7 and 12 but they did not surprise me .
Simultaneously wLth the 'experiments on trichophyton I had made a number of cultivations of the common fungi found in our houses , and had learned how delicate are the conditions of growth to which they are all subject , One of the most important of these conditions is the requisite degree of moisture , which must be neither in deficiency nor excess .
The failures recorded in these experiments may possibly have been due to the hairs having become too much immersed , or the spores themselves may have been incapable of germination from changes effected m them by inflammatory exudation around the hair follicles before they were extracted .
The growth observed consisted in a development of mycelium from spores , and in the formation of spores within the mycelium , as is portrayed in the drawings in the plate .
No organs of fructification were observed . . .
, Two experiments were made with ringworm hairs which had been sunk in water .
In one case the length of time of the immersion is not noted ; in the other the hairs were immersed six days .
In neither case did trichophyton grow when an attempt at ^ cultivation on vitreous humour was made .
Considering the uncertainty of vitreous humour cultivations , these two experiments have only a very limited value , but , so far as they go , they support the inferences which follow from other experiments made in the same direction .
The hairs in which trichophyton grew were all freshly extracted , but one experiment was made with two hairs , kept dry in a box for thirteen days .
The spores were very numerous in these hairs ; only one appearance of growing mycelium wras observed , a spore having sprouted on the side of the hair .
There were , on the other hand , some similar experiments with negative results .
Four cultivations were tried with hairs which had been kept eleven days , and three with hairs which had been kept twenty-two days ; in all of them the spores remained unchanged .
The value of these experiments is , on account of the uncertainty of the cultivations , not very great , but it may be well to put them on record .
The same remark applies to experiments made with hairs taken from patches which were under treatment .
The vitality of trichophyton is destroyed as a result of many varieties of treatment , the essential feature in all of which is that they produce inflammation of the skin .
As soon , therefore , as I had determined that the spores in untreated hairs could be grown in a fairly large proportion of the Dr. G. Thin .
experiments made , I undertook cultivations with hairs extracted from patches which were under active treatment for the cure of the disease .
With one exception , and in that one the growth was open to doubt , all these cultivations failed .
Nineteen such cultivations were attempted , in two the hairs being on the vitreous humour in the incubator for two days , in eight for three days , in six for four days , and in three for five days .
The treatment had consisted in rubbing into the scalp , on the affected places- , sulphur ointment and mercurial ointments of various kinds and strengths .
The failure to cultivate trichophyton in these cases did not coincide in point of time with the cure of the disease , for in many of them the malady followed its somewhat tedious course for a considerable time after the dates of the experiments .
The fact that 1 had been unable to produce growth of trichophyton in cells , so long as the spores were completely immersed in vitreous humour , led me to make the following experiments .
Ringworm hairs were extracted from a patch of untreated ringworm .
Some of them were inserted into a small glass tube , which was placed at the bottom of the test-glass , and others were floated on the surface of the fluid in the usual way .
After two days the hairs were examined .
There was an abundant growth of mycelium around the roots of those hairs which were on the surface .
The mycelium was of the size of that of ringworm , and in some of it black pigment had been deposited .
No spores had formed .
I satisfied myself at the time that it had developed from the ringworm spores .
On macerating the hairs the mycelial growth of trichophyton inside the hair-shafts was also found pigmented .
In the hairs deposited in the tube at the bottom of the test-glass no growth had taken place , although on maceration they were found to contain mycelium and spores of trichophyton , both containing black pigment.* In another instance , in which the experiment was conducted in precisely the same conditions , an examination was made after the test-glass had been six days in the incubator .
There was free growth of trichophyton in the hairs which had been floating on the surface of the fluid , whilst there was no growth in the hairs which were in the tube at the bottom of the glass .
In these two experiments all the hairs , both those on the surface and those ' at the bottom , contained trichophyton , and in each experiment both the surface and the sunk hairs were taken at the same time from the same patient , every condition being alike , except that in the one * This patient is not the only one in -whose diseased hairs the ringworm fungus was pigmented .
I have found the same peculiarity in other cases , and in the , affected hairs from a patch of this disease , in a black horse , I found pigmented mycelium and spores very common .
On Trichophyton tonsurans ( the Fungus of Ringworm ) .
245 case the hairs were on the surface of the fluid , and in the other they were completely immersed in it .
It seems impossible to resist the conclusion from these and from the earlier cell experiments that trichophyton cannot grow when immersed in vitreous humour , whilst it grows freely when only moist^These experiments further suggest the view that inflammation cures ringworm by drowning the fungus .
The data supplied by recent pathological researches show that serous effusion from the bloodvessels is the invariable concomitant of inflammatory action , however it is produced .
When a persistent inflammatory congestion is kept up by irritants around the hair follicles , it of necessity follows that the serous effusion should make its way through the root-sheaths , whilst the inner root-sheath , and the cuticle of the hair are more or less broken up by the growth \lt ; of the fungus .
It is a fair inference from the experiments described in this paper that the capacity for growth in trichophyton must be destroyed by the resulting immersion in serum .
Clinically and as a matter of fact , we know that this is just what takes place , and the only reason why ringworm is such a tedious disease under treatment is that the same amount of irritation by external agents does not produce the same amount of congestion in any two patients , and that a careful practitioner will always hesitate to induce such an intensity of inflammation as might injure the health of the patient or produce partial baldness by destruction of the hair follicles .
Trichophyton tonsurans , although it grows in the epidermis of children and adults alike , and thrives in the hairs of the scalp in children , cannot , as a rule to which there is hardly any exception , live in the hairs and follicles of the scalp of adults .
The explanation of this peculiarity will probably be found in the anatomical relations of the inner root-sheath and the hair , and I suggest as an hypothesis that the fungus does not penetrate between these structures in the adult because it does not find there sufficient moisture for its development .
Preparations showing the mycelium well , with the process of spore formation as it takes place within the hair-shaft , do not appear to have been often portrayed , if we may judge by the figures in ordinary medical works , most of the drawings which are found in text-books of medicine representing it imperfectly .
I found that hairs which had been macerated for several days in vitreous humour afforded excellent specimens for observation .
Good preparations of trichophyton , showing the different stages of development , are easily obtained by ordinary methods from scrapings of the epidermis in ringworm of the skin of the body , and an excellent representation of the appearances then seen is given in Cornil and Ranvier 's " Manuel d'Histologie Pathologique , " p. 1221 .
Dr. G. Thin .
The main conclusions regarding Trichophyton tonsurans which are warranted by the experiments recorded in this paper are that:\#151 ; 1 .
It is not one of the common fungi .
2 .
It can be cultivated artificially when moistened by vitreous humour .
3 .
When covered by vitreous humour it does not grow .
The second of these formulated statements suggests whether the inability of the fungus to grow in the hairs of the scalp in adults may not be due to the firmer texture of the root-sheaths , and the consequent comparative absence of moisture between the inner root-sheath and the hair .
The third explains why the fungus maybe destroyed by provoking inflammation of the scalp .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 2 .
Figure 1 .
Cultivation in a cell .
( Two days in the incubator .
) x 750 .
Figure 2 .
Cultivation on the surface of vitreous humour in a test-glass , showing the first appearance of spore-formation in the mycelium , x 600 .
Figure 3 .
Growth on the surface of vitreous humour in a test-glass , showing an early stage of spore-formation , x 880 .
Figure 4 .
Spores germinating .
Drawn ( without the camera ) from a preparation in a cell the same day in which it had been placed in the incubator .
Figure 5 .
Two days ' growth in a cell , x 750 .
Figure 6 .
Two days ' growth in a cell , x 750 .
Figure 7.* A. hair from a cultivation on the surface of vitreous humour in a test-glass .
A mass of germinating and sprouting spores on a portion of the internal root-sheath which was attached to the hair is seen at the side of the hair-shaft .
Buds and mycelium are sprouting from the sides of the hair .
( In order to reduce the size of the drawing the centre of the hair-shaft has been left out .
) x450 .
* No attempt has been made to represent the fungus growth on the upper surface of the hair , as it lies in the preparation .
The outlines were too much obscured by the thickness of the hair to enable this to be accurately done with the camera .
ProcJioyScc .
Vcl \gt ; '

