Astronomical Observations relating to the sidereal part of the Heavens , and its Connexion with the nebulous part ; arrangedfor the purpose of a critical Examination .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read February 24 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 248 .
] In a former communication to the Society , the author endeavoured to show the probability of a progressive condensation of nebulous matter , so as to put on ultimately the appearance of stars : his present object is to show , by reference to select cases from many thousand former observations on record , that a similar operation of gradual condensation is also taking place among condensed clusters of visible stars , and consequently to render it probable that an intimate connexion subsists between these extremes , and that the same process of condensation continues from one end of the series to the other ; so that the most perfect stars may possibly have originated from an accumulation of mere nebulous matter .
His first observations , indeed , relate to a more direct communication between present stars and contiguous nebulosity in different relative positions .
In some instances a single star appears to be attracting to itself a branch of nebulosity , seen extending from one of its sides ; in others , two adjacent stars appear to have equal power over a linear portion of nebula that extends from one to the other .
The portions of nebula , however , that are adjacent to different single stars , vary considerably in their appearance .
Of those nebulous branches that extend only on one side , some have parallel sides , some are fan-shaped , others are in a considerable degree irregular .
Some stars have extended nebulosity on opposite sides , in a line of which they occupy the centre .
Round others it appears diffused equally , as in a globular form , on all sides ; and in some instances , such a globular nebula apparently includes a cluster of several stars together .
All these appearances afford a presumption , that stars and nebulae are drawn together by mutual attraction , and that the accession of such a quantity of matter as must be contained in an extensive nebula will ultimately cause what may be called the growth of stars .
What in its first state appeared as a globular nebula alone , would , by condensation , present the appearance of a nucleus in its centre .
The globular nebula with nucleus would , by increasing condensation , become a nebulous star ; its next state would be that of a distinct star , with surrounding nebulosity ; and the last result would be the perfect simple star .
The author observes , however , that in the instances which present themselves of such connexion between stars and nebulae , which are the two extremes of the series , the nebulosity may not always be a remnant of the unsubsided nebulous matter from which they were originally formed , but detached portions of nebulous matter may , like stars , have a considerable proper motion , and may be intercepted in their course by clusters of stars , or by the more powerful attraction of a single star of great magnitude , by which they will in still less time be absorbed .
In Dr. Herschel 's endeavours to arrange the vast accumulation of observations already recorded on this subject , there are many phenomena too ambiguous to admit of classification ; but this , he observes , will necessarily occur at every period in the progressive improvement of telescopes ; since a greater power of penetrating into space , which would be sufficient to render all present objects distinct , would bring into view a still greater number of appearances , requiring a still further extension of our powers to comprehend .
After arranging the various instances of gradation in which nebulosity appears successively more and more condensed , whether with or without intervening stars , the author examines aggregations of stars alone , referring to many former observations of patches of stars , which , at the time of recording them , he was induced to callforming clusters , in consequence of some appearances of a tendency to approach , which he inferred from the greater density of such clusters toward their centre .
This apparent propensity to cluster seemed chiefly visible in parts of the heavens extremely rich in stars ; and Dr. Herschel refers to about 150 instances of such an appearance in the Milky Way , but generally of an irregular form , and very imperfectly collected .
Of other clusters , in which more of regularity is observable , a more particular description is given .
The various degrees of compression of different clusters are also noticed , with references to numerous instances by classes in which they are now arranged .
Some of these are visible with ordinary telescopes ; others are selected as fine objects for good telescopes ; and others again , on account of their higher compression , cannot be resolved without the aid of very superior telescopes .
The form , also , of those most compressed is observed to partake more or less of a spherical form .
Thirty-nline instances are quoted in which the form is oval in various degrees .
But objects of this description can hardly be seen to advantage without a twenty-feet telescope .
Others again , and very numerous , are referred to , discovered as globular nebulae with common telescopes , but resolved into stars by telescopes of high magnifying as well as space-penetrating power ; and as these are accordingly but little known , Dr. Herschel selects , from numerous observations that he has made during fourand-thirty years , various nebulae , classed according to the telescopes with which he had observed them , as a guide to those who may wish to view them , that they may be able to judge which objects may pos-sibly be within the power of the telescopes they happen to possess .
496Since the luminous appearance of the Milky Way is caused by stars that are invisible to the naked eye , this part of the heavens presents a vast field for observation on the existence of a clustering power .
To the naked eye it is visibly divided into large patches ; and a telescope shows it to be still further subdivided into unequal groups , which , though now not completely detached , it is presumed will hereafter become insulated ; so that the Milky Way will finally be broken up , and cease to be a stratum of clustered stars .
The same mode of reasoning that leads the imagination to conceive the progressive changes of its future existence , involves also the supposition of its origin at some period certainly very remote , but which it may possibly be in the power of future astronomers to estimate , by means of accurate observations on the rate of those changes that may be discovered to have taken place in the course of ages yet to come .
With respect , however , to the extent in space of that portion of infinity through which any objects are discernible , and the arrangement and relative distances of all celestial bodies yet observed , the author is of opinion , that some present judgement may be formed ; and he is now engaged in a series of observations , with a view to investigate the visible extent of the universe .

