250 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into [ Mar. is with the germinal vesicle , and is connected with the periphery of ti ovum by ramified offsets .
Fig. 30 .
Section of superficial part of ovary of a bitch pup , eighteen days old , show-ing gland-like connexion of egg-tubes with the surface of the ovary str .
Ovarial stroma .
5 Fig. 31 .
From another section of the same ovary , showing more oblique connexion of egg-tuhes with the surface .
o. e. Ovarial epithelium .
Stroma not represented .
Fig. 32 .
From another part , showing two other of the gland-like connexions cut across and obliquely .
Fig. 33 .
A very oblique connexion , cut longitudinally .
Fig. 34 .
Section of superficial part of ovary of a young bitch , almost full-grown , showing some of the ovarial glands ( connexions of egg-tuhes with surface of ovary ) .
Cut across and obliquely .
Fig. 35 .
A peculiar convoluted tube from the deeper part of the same ovary , almost filled with long , tapering columnar cells .
a. Either the same or a similar tube , cut across .
II .
" Researches into the Colouring Matters of Human Urine , with an Account of the Separation of Urobilin .
" By C. A MacMunn , B.A. , M.D. Communicated by A. Gamgee , M.D. , F.R.S. , Brackenbury Professor of Practical Physiology and Histology in Owens College , Manchester .
Received March 15 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper an account of the spectroscopic and chemical characters of urobilin is given .
Urobilin is a pigment which has been diagnosed in urine by means of the spectroscope , and which has not been hitherto isolated .
Before its discovery in urine a pigment had been obtained by Jaffe by acting on human bile with nitric acid , and on dog 's bile with hydrochloric acid , and subsequent treatment , which in solution gave the same spectrum , and behaved in the same manner with reagents as urine containing urobilin .
By an examination of the bile of seventeen animals , I have shown that it is present as such in the bile of all them , but in greatest abundance in the bile of the mouse ; and the results are described in the paper , while the spectra are shown in Chart II .
I have also shown that human urine always gives an absorption band afc F , which almost always is affected in the same manner by re* agents as the pigment got by Jaff6 from bile , and that if this band is not so affected another pigment called urolutein is present , which 1 describe and have mapped in Chart I. I have succeeded in isolating urobilin by the following method:\#151 ; Having procured some urine which by preliminary spectroscopic and |880 .
] Colouring Matters of Human .
251 chemical tests showed a large amount of urobilin , it was precipitated by neutral and basic lead acetate respectively , and filtered ; if the filtrate gave an absorption spectrum , it was re-precipitated until the band disap-peared , the precipitates were united , extracted with alcohol acidulated either with hydrochloric or sulphuric acid , and filtered .
The filtrate was of a fine red colour , giving the dark band at F. This fluid , in small quantities at a time , was put into a separating funnel , a large quantity of water added and then pure chloroform , the whole repeatedly shaken and then allowed to stand .
The red chloroform layer was separated off and filtered , when it was again examined and found to give in every instance the original spectrum ; the chloroform was now evaporated off and the residue repeatedly dissolved in chloroform , finally on evaporation a brown-red , amorphous , shiny residue was obtained , which was perfectly soluble in alcohol , chloroform , nitric acid , hydrochloric acid , acetic acid , lactic acid , acidulated water , and partly soluble in ether , in water , and in benzol , but quite insoluble in bisulphide of carbon .
I fully describe the spectra of the various solutions , which are shown in Chart I , and it will be seen that the same pigment was present in every solution , and since by the action of different solvents and reagents , this pigment could not be separated into more than one , I conclude that pure urobilin was obtained and urobilin only .
I have also endeavoured to show that the pigment obtained was in combination with the sulphuric acid , when prepared by the sulphuric acid method , as it was found to contain sulphur , in addition to carbon \#166 ; " hydrogen , oxygen and nitrogen , which was absent and replaced by chlorine when it was prepared by the hydrochloric acid method .
The conclusions which this research led me to form were as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
That urobilin had been separated from urine .
2 .
That by the treatment adopted it had been separated in combination with hydrochloric and sulphuric acid respectively .
3 .
That the spectra of solutions of urobilin obtained by these methods respectively differ in the position of certain feeble bands , but agree in all possessing a black band at F , which can be made to disappear by ammonia in excess , and which is replaced by another band nearer the red end of the spectrum on the addition of sodic hydrate .
^ 4 .
Urobilin is an amorphous brownish-red pigment , which contains carbon , oxygen , hydrogen and nitrogen .
It is soluble in alcohol , chloroform , acidulated water , and acids ; partially in ether , benzol , and water , i.e. , if the pigment be separated in combination with hydro| chloric or sulphuric acid .
5 .
Urobilin appears capable of existing in different states of oxidation .
6 .
It is derived from one of the colouring-matters of bile .
7 .
It appears to be the colouring-matter of the bile of the mouse .
Mr. P. Geddes .
On Coalescence of [ Mar. 18 Like haemoglobin and haematin , urobilin appears to be a very unstable body , which easily splits up on treatment with reagents into decomposition products , each giving a peculiar spectrum .
III .
" On the Coalescence of Amoeboid Cells into Plasmodia , and on the so-called Coagulation of Invertebrate Fluids .
" By P. Geddes .
Communicated by Professor Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received March 13 , 1880 .
[ Plate 5 .
] AV hetlier one collects the perivisceral fluid of a sea-urehin or of a worm , or the blood of a crustacean or a mollusc , the same phenomenon is always more or less distinctly to be observed .
A kind of coagulation takes place , the fluid separating sooner or later into two portions , which have considerable superficial resemblance to the clot and serum of vertebrate blood .
It is easy to watch the formation of the clot by placing a drop of fresh-drawn fluid upon a cover-glass and inverting this above a glass cell , of which the edge is oiled to prevent evaporation .
The drop thus hangs freely and the coagulation can go on without interference .
The phenomena observed in various invertebrates are best understood by reference to the plate .
Fig. 1 represents some of the groups into Avhich the amoeboid corpuscles of the perivisceral fluid of the earthworm run immediately after drawing .
In fig. 2 we have a few adjacent corpuscles from the gill of in fig. 3 they are commencing to adhere ; in 4 and 5 their adhesion is complete ; in fig. 6 they have all but completely merged into one mass , which is about to absorb a new-comer ; in figs. 8 and 9 the mass is now completely homogeneous , is altering its form and throwing out pseudopodia in all directions .
Figs. 10\#151 ; 12 represent the similar union of corpuscles of Patella , and figs. 13 , 14 those of Buccinum .
In Pagurus the corpuscles are of two very markedly different kinds , the coarsely and the finely granular .
The former are much elongated when freshly drawn , but rapidly become oat- or egg-shaped , and then throw out blunt pseudopodia from any part of their surface .
These stages are represented in fig. 15 .
The finely granular corpuscles , drawn separately at fig. 16 , send out filamentous pseudopodia , and alone possess the power of rinion .
Fig. 17 represents a small clot , formed by the union of the finely granular corpuscles , and containing a number of coarsely granular corpuscles , which do not merge into the surrounding mass .
The large pseudopodial process of hyaline ectoplasm on the left of the figure is worthy of notice .
Figs. 18\#151 ; 23 show the union of five of the finely granular corpuscles

