1881J On the White Blood 41o coloured while the vapour will be quite colourless , and will remain so up to the critical point . . .
Now let the fluid be raised above its critical point , all the internal space will be coloured , showing that ( the contents being gaseous ) the eas dissolves the solid while the vapour does not .
We have here a. clear separation of the two kinds of aeriform fluids .
The definition which I applied to the gaseous state at the beginning of this paper does not apply to the vaporous state , as we know that any quantity of it will not distribute itself throughout a space , because if we try to force vapour into a space already saturated , we cause a change of state , and a portion of the matter becomes liquid .
Thus , instead of only two we have four distinct states of matter : solid , liquid , vaporous , and gaseous .
XVI .
" The Relation of the White Blood Corpuscles to the Coagulation of the Blood ; ' By L. C. Wooldridge , B.Sc. Lond. , Physiologische- Anstalt , Leipzig .
Communicated by Dr. Lauder Brunton , F.R.S. Received June 8 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The following is an abstract of some researches which have been carried 'out by the author in the Physiological Institute of the University of Leipzig .
It has long been known that the white blood corpuscles are concerned in the coagulation of the blood .
Alexander Schmidt , to whom we principally owe our knowledge of this fact , has distinctly formulated the part they play .
He considers them as the source of two of the three factors which are , according to his well-known theory , necessary for the formation of fibrin .
The two components which arise from the white blood corpuscles are , according to Schmidt , paraglobulin and fibrin ferment .
The recent researches of Hammarsten have made it very probable that paraglobulin is not directly concerned in the formation of fibrin .
If this be true , and if the views of Schmidt concerning the participation of ' the white corpuscles be also correct , the latter must necessarily only play a very subordinate part ; that is , they must be mere ferment producers .
_ In order to arrive at exact conclusions on this subject , the author has considered it necessary:\#151 ; 1st .
To attain some more knowledge than we at present possess concerning the chemical nature of the white blood corpuscles .
2nd .
To have exact data for the amount of white blood corpuscles which disappears during coagulation .
^ ^ 414 Mr. L. C. Wooldridge .
Relation of White [ June i6 The first of these two subjects the author considers here .
For this purpose the leucocytes of lymphatic glands have been used as material .
It can be considered as in the highest degree probable that these are essentially identical with white blood corpuscles .
The leucocytes are obtained by finely dividing the glands ( mostly the mesenteric glands of the calf ) and gently rubbing the fragments in a mortar with ^ per cent , solution of common salt .
By filtration through a fine cloth , the cells are separated from the other constituents of the glands which remain behind on the filter the cells passing through .
By means of the centrifugal machine , the leucocytes are well washed out with a i per cent , solution of common salt .
The cells are perfectly distinguishable under the microscope and are apparently unchanged .
After the washing out is completed , the cells are suspended in a little normal salt solution and are subjected to various experiments , the most important of which are as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
The lymph cells are changed by simple chemical reagents into a substance closely resembling fibrin .
If to one volume of suspended cells an equal volume of 10 per cent , solution of common salt is added , the whole is immediately con-verted into a peculiar semi-transparent jelly .
If this be poured into water , or into 1 per cent , solution of common salt , it becomes immediately opaque .
It now appears in the form of a white rounded lump , or it forms large membranes , often many inches in extent .
These latter have the greatest resemblance to fibrin membranes such as appear in plasma obtained by various methods .
The resemblance of the product to fibrin is made much more apparent if the substance be freed , by means of filtration and expression , as much as possible from water .
It then appears as small flocculi , distinctly fibrous in their texture and elastic .
The chemical behaviour of these flocculi are as follows:_ In water they are insoluble .
In solutions of common salt , they gradually swell up .
In 0-2 ' per cent , hydrochloric acid , they are totally insoluble ; if anything , they become firmer and more elastic .
In dilute alkalies , they gradually dissolve .
The microscopical examination shows that the cells , as such , have disappeared .
Only nuclei , imbedded in a distinctly fibrous ground substance , are visible .
If the leucocytes are treated with distilled water , or with solutions of sulphate of magnesia , similar results are obtained .
The cells are changed into a fibrous mass , with nuclei imbedded therein .
1881 .
] Blood Corpuscles to the Coagulation of the Blood .
415 2 .
Behaviour of Leucocytes towards Plasma .
The only animals at the author 's disposal were dogs .
The most convenient way of obtaining plasma from dog 's blood is to inject a solution of peptone into the blood of the living animal .
If the animal be bled five or ten minutes after the injection of the peptone , the blood does not coagulate .
( This fact was discovered by Dr. Adolf Schmidt , Mulheim .
) By means of the centrifugal machine the blood corpuscles can be separated from the plasma .
With this plasma I have experimented , and I shall call it peptone plasma .
A general account of the action of peptone on the blood has been published by my friend , Dr. Fano .
His researches were also carried out at Leipzig , and his observations have supplied me with many necessary details .
My observations have led me to the conclusion that peptone plasma behaves towards the cells in a manner which is essentially similar to that in which solutions of common salt , of sulphate ot magnesia , and distilled water behave .
As I have already stated , by these latter reagents the protoplasm of the lymph cells becomes converted into a fibrous mass resembling fibrin .
When peptone plasma is the destroying agent , the substance produced is undoubtedly fibrin , and it owes its origin to a simple transformation of the protoplasm of the leucocytes into fibrin .
It is perfectly independent of the presence of a fibrinogenic substance in the plasma .
The grounds on which I base this statement are clearly brought forward in the following experiments , which I shall adduce as examples .
A dog was injected with peptone ; five minutes afterwards it was bled .
The corpuscles were separated from the plasma by the centii-fugal machine , and the plasma allowed to stand overnight in ice .
During the night , incomplete coagulation of the plasma occurred .
This is a perfectly normal occurrence in peptone plasma , and it can be immediately brought about by dilution of the plasma with w atei , or by passing a stream , of carbonic acid through it .
The plasma in question , after the coagula had been separated by filtration , presented the following characters : It was totally uncoagulable\#151 ; 1 .
On dilution with water .
2 .
On passing a current of C02 through it .
8 .
On addition of Schmidt 's fibrin ferment .
4 .
On addition of paraglobulin .
5 .
On addition of normal serum .
6 .
On standing till it was foul .
Mr. L. C. Wooldridge .
Relation of White [ June 16 , In short , by no means could the presence of a coagulable substance\#151 ; fibrinogen\#151 ; in the plasma be demonstrated .
It behaved as follows towards cells :\#151 ; To 20 cub. centims. plasma a very small quantity of lymph cells were added .
Two minutes afterwards it coagulated , but only imperfectly .
The coagulum contracted rapidly .
The serum which exuded was divided into two portions , to one a large quantity of lymph cells were added ; very complete coagulation occurred in two Or three minutes .
The other portion showed not the slightest sign of coagulation for the twenty-four hours it was under observation .
This process was repeated four times ; ultimately , the plasma lost the property of changing the cells into fibrin .
JSTow , I say the plasma changes the cells into fibrin , and I base tbit , statement on the following facts , in addition to those already mentioned :\#151 ; 1 .
The weight of the coagulum found is identical , that is , as nearly so as can be in such determinations , with the weight of cells which have been added .
2 .
Tho percentage of albumens in peptone plasma before coagulation with cells is identical with the percentage after coagulation with cells .
3 .
The protoplasm of the cells has completely disappeared and has been converted into a partly fibrous , partly granular , ground substance the nuclei remain .
4 .
If to a very large quantity of suspended cells , say 50 cub. centims. , a very small quantify ( 1 cub. centim. ) peptone plasma be added , the whole clots firmly .
The microscope shows that the cell-body has disappeared .
These facts suffice to show that the plasma converts the cells into fibrin , and that this conversion is independent of the presence of a coagulable substance ( fibrinogen ) in the plasma .
But this is not all .
I have already referred to the fact that a spontaneous coagulation occurs in peptone plasma on standing , and that this can be accelerated by dilution with water , or by passing a current of carbonic acid through it .
Solutions of the fibrin ferment also bring it about , but nob very much more rapidly than mere dilution .
In some cases , the coagulation which can be induced by these means is very complete , in others it is very scanty .
The case I have described at length was one of the latter .
In ether eases , the coagulation is very complete , a firm dense clot is formed by the means adopted .
How , on adding cells to such a plasma , not only are they converted into fibrin , but they induce the coagulation of the existing fibrinogen in the plasma .
I may here remark , that I have failed to find any ground whatever for the assumption that paraglobulin arises from lymph corpuscles .
In the destruction of the lymph cells by salt solutions the only pro1881 .
] Blood Corpuscles to the Coagulation of the Blood .
417 duct is the fibrinous body mentioned , not the slightest trace of a globulin can be detected . . .
, In peptone plasma , paraglobulin is present in large quantities , and yet it is quite certain , as I shall mention later , that no breaking up of white blood corpuscles has taken place . .
, ' 3 .
The generally received view , as to the course of events m the normal coagulation of the blood , is as follows Very soon after leaving the body the white corpuscles die ; as a consequence of this they break up , and thereby give rise to the ferment and paraglobulin .
The fibrinogen is pre-existent in the plasma .
i .
According to this view , then , the essential element in coagulation is the death of the white blood corpuscles .
The results of my experiments are totally opposed to this view .
They are shortly stated as follows :\#151 ; The injection of a large quantity of dead lymph cells into the blood of a living dog , both in its normal state and when it has been injected with peptone , has no marked influence on the functions of the animal .
No sign whatever of emboli can be detected after the animal is dead .
I give one example:\#151 ; , , , , A dog was peptonised ; five minutes later a small quantity of blood was removed and divided into two portions , to the one lymph cells were added , it coagulated immediately , exactly like normal coagulation .
The other portion remained uncoagulated for hours .
After the removal of this small test quantity of blood , a very large quantity of dead lymph cells , suspended in \#163 ; per cent , solution of , common salt , were injected into the animal .
The latter was apparently quite unaffected by this .
It was in the narcotic state always produced by peptone , but it was able , in the course of three-quarters of an hour , to walk about .
No coagula were found on post-mortem examination .
, , .
These facts are of great importance , for they show that coagulation is the result of a change in the plasma , and has nothing to do with the vital properties of the cells ; and they further fully confirm what I have endeavoured clearly to bring out , that the conversion of the white cells into fibrin is quite independent of the presence of any " fibrinogen " substance .
Fibrinogen is present in " living plasma* yet the dead cells produce no coagulation .
Fibrinogen was absent from the peptone plasma , which still gave practically unlimited quantities of fibrin with lymph cells ; Now , Alexander Schmidt has shown most distinctly that white blood cells do unquestionably disappear as such during the normal coagulation of the blood ; and , in another communication I shall confirm this in a most decided manner .
I feel , therefore , justified , although I have , at present , only fully worked out peptone plasma , in saying that 418 Dr. F. W. Pavj .
Research hearing on the [ June 16 , there are two essential processes in the coagulation of the blood one of which has been hitherto entirely wrongly appreciated or overlooked .
This latter process is that the " dead " plasma converts the white corpuscles directly into fibrin .
At the same time , however , that this occurs , a substance is liberated from the cells which converts the fibrinogen also into fibrin .
This is the other process .
The substance which is liberated from the cells is fibrin ferment .
XVII .
" A New Line of Research bearing on the Physiology of Sugar in the Animal System .
" By F. W Pavy M D RR .
S. Received June 8 ' , 1881 .
' * * ' Twenty-three years ago I presented a communication to the Royal Society , entitled " On the alleged Sugar-forming Function of the Liver .
" Lour years previously , viz. , in 1854 , whilst conducting* experiments directed towards determining the manner in which the sugar presumed , under the glycogenic doctrine , to escape from the liver was destroyed ( as it was then believed to be ) in the lungs , I discovered that what had been taken as representing the natural condition of the liver , and of the blood escaping from it in relation to sugar , was founded upon a fallacious inference .
By those who have only been acquainted with what , in recent times , has been recognised as constituting the state existing , the original position in which the matter stood will hardly be fully comprehended .
The strongly saccharine state in which the liver and the blood of the hepatic veins are found shortly after death was looked upon , without any question being raised about it , as representing the state existing during life .
Without the slightest prior conception that such was likely to be the case , I found first that the blood between the liver and the lungs was not during life in the condition that had been supposed , and next that what I discovered for the blood applied also to the liver .
The evidence which presented itself led me , as is known , to dispute the validity of the glycogenic theory , and the additional information which I have since from time to time obtained has materially strengthened the position I took .
To my own mind , the conditions that we have to deal with looked at in their entirety , are totally irreconcilable with the glycogenic theory ; but I know that the difficulty which has existed in accounting for the disposal of the glycogenic matter of Bernard encountered in the liver has stood in the way of a general adoption of my views .
This subject , however , I am now prepared to approach and consider .
When the glycogenic matter was discovered , it was described as undergoing transformation into sugar immediately it was brought into

