132 Dr. G. H. Fowler .
[ Ju"e u j albumoses are precipitated by NaCl from their , in some cases neutra i in others faintly acid , solutions .
Besides the proteid we have found three undetermined substance 1 in the extracts , neither of which is proteid .
The first of these ( 1 ) [ .
the substance which is present in considerable quantity in the waterj \ extract , and which is precipitated on adding a small amount of salt .
| ( 2 .
) When a portion of the first extract is freed from proteid by boil- I ing , and then the filtrate poured into alcohol , a precipitate is formed , j fairly copious but much less than that formed when the unboiled extract is similarly neutral , as described above .
This remains soluble j in water after prolonged action of the alcohol , but the solution gives I no xanthoproteic reaction .
( 3 .
) When the alcohol is evaporated to dryness a sticky residue is j left , which also is soluble in water , and its solution gives a fair xantho- i proteic reaction .
This is not proteid , however , as it is soluble in alcohol .
This substance can be extracted from the fresh extract bj j dialysing it in distilled water .
On concentrating this dialysate a similar sticky residue is obtained .
In several cases this brown , sticky I mass deposited crystals of rounded form , much resembling in appearance the well-known aggregations of leucin .
They were not leucin , however , as besides being soluble in cold alcohol they did not give .
the characteristic Scherer 's reaction , nor did they form a compound with the acetates of lead or zinc .
It is not improbable that this third undetermined substance may be allied to leucin , asparagin , \amp ; c. , but our observations on it are as yet incomplete .
XI .
" Note on the Structure of .
" By G. Herbert Fowler , B.A. , Ph. D. , Assistant in the Zoological Laboratory of University College , London .
Communicated by Prof. W. F. R. Weldon , F.R.S. Received June 13 , 1892 .
The specimens investigated were attached to a colony of obtained by the " Challenger " Expedition at Nightingale Island , from a depth of 100\#151 ; 150 fathoms .
I owe to Mr. John Murray my thanks for his courtesy in allowing me to publish my notes on the structure of this interesting form , in which I hoped that the improved methods of microscopical research introduced in recent years might reveal points which had , perhaps , escaped the two observers to whose study of the living animal we owe our present knowledge of pleura .
All the new anatomical features which I have been able to detect are in entire agreement with the structure of pleura may thus be taken to form a third member of Bateson 's order , the Hemiehordata .
They are , briefly , as follows:\#151 ; 892 .
] Note on the Structure of Rliabdopleura .
133 The epistome corresponds to the proboscis of Balanoglossus and 1ephalodiscAis , and , like them , contains a portion of the ccelom , the nterior or prse-oral body cavity , completely shut off : from the other ortions of the coelom .
The collar region ( thorax of Lankester ) contains the central section 134 Mr. G. Bidder .
On the Flash-shaped Ectodevm [ June 16 of the coelom , divided into right and left halves by median septa each half communicating with the exterior by means of its own collar canal ; on the posterior face of this cavity is an ectodermal thickening , which corresponds in position with the nerve-plate of Gephalodiscus and the nerve-tube of Balanoglossus .
The collar cavities are continued upwards into the tentacles , and surround the mouth .
From the pharynx a short diverticulum is given off upwards , which is continuous with a rod-like structure , apparently half cellular , half gelatinoid , which lies in the line along which the median posterior septum of the collar meets the nearly vertical septum between proboscis and collar cavities .
It thus corresponds in origin , structure , and position with the notochord of Gephalodiscus .
The trunk contains the greater part of the alimentary canal .
Its body cavity , as in the other Hemichordata , appears to be completely shut off from the paired cavity of the collar .
The only part of the intestine calling for remark is a short semicircular diverticulum , which occurs also in Gephalodiscus .
The points in which Rhdbdopleura differs from both the other Hemichordata are purely negative , viz. , the absence of a proboscis pore or pores , and the absence of gill-slits ; the points of agreement are so striking that it is impossible to separate the three organisms .
A more fully illustrated paper on the subject will shortly be published .
DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Longitudinal section , taken slightly to one side of the middle line , so as to avoid the median septa of the collar region .
The dotted line e marks the ventral limit of the collar .
Fig. 2 .
Iransverse section along the line c\#151 ; d in fig. 1 , through proboscis stalk and upper part of collar , and cutting the base of a tentacle of one side .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Transverse section along the line in fig. 1 , showing the external opening of one , the internal opening of the other , collar canal .
In all three figures the mesoderm is represented by a thick line , the ectoderm and endoderm by thin lines .
The gelatinoid part of the notochord is marked by cross-hatching ; its cellular part has not been distinguished from ectoderm or endoderm ; b.c.1 , prse-oral coelom , or proboscis cavity ; b.c.2 , ccelom of the collar divided by the median septa into right and left halves ; b.c.3 , coelom of the trunk ; c.c. , canals leading from the collar cavities to the exterior .
XII .
" On the Flask-shaped Ectoderm and Spongoblasts in one of the Keratosa .
" By George Bidder .
Communicated by Adam Sedgwick , M.A. , F.R.S. Received June 15 , 1892 .
In my " ISTote on Excretion in Sponges , " published by the Society in the ' Proceedings ' of this year , I said : " Both from my own observations on an Aplysilla ( ?
) . . . .
and from a study of

