]\gt ; .
If the density be unity , the kinetic energy of the motion has .
the ( 46 ) having th6 value given in ( 44 ) .
P.S. , March 4.\mdash ; Sir W. D. Niven , who in 1881 verified some other results for self-induction\mdash ; those numbered ( 11 ) , ( 12 ) in the paper referred to\mdash ; has been good enough to confirm the formulae ( 1 ) , ( 28 ) of the present communica- tion , in which I differ from M. Wien .
The Diffusion and Mobility of Ions in Magrtetic Field .
By JOHN S. TOWNSEND , F.R.S. , Wykeham Professor of Physics , Oxford .
Received March ll , \mdash ; Read Apri125 , 1912 .
) 1 .
When the motion of ions in a gas takes place in a magnetic field the rates of diffusion and the velocities due to an electric force may be determined by methods similar to those given in a previous paper .
* The effect of the magnetic field may be determined by considering the motion of each ion between collisions with molecules .
The magnetic force causes the ions to be deflected in their free paths , and when no electric force is acting the paths are spirals , the axes being along the direction of the magnetio force .
If be the intensity of the magnetic field , the charge , and the mass of an ion , then the radius of the spiral is being the velocity in the direction perpendicular to H. The distance that the ion travels in the interval between two collisions in a direction normal to the magnetic force is a chord of the circle of radius .
The average lengths of these chords may be reduced to any fraction of the projection of the mean free path in the direction of the magnetic force , so that the rate of diffusion of ions in the directions perpendicular to the magnetic force is less than the rate of diffusion in the direction of the force .
In the previous paper it has been shown that the coefficient of diffusion is a measure of the rate of increase of the mean square the distance of any distribution from any being equal to Since Fbbuary , 1918 , vol. 86 .
of diffusion along , which is unaltered by the fiel\amp ; .
As phenomena are of special interest in connection with negative ionr in the electronic state when magnetic fields produce large , the with molecules may be supposed to affect the motion of the ions irt the same .
way as the motion of small bodies is affected by colliding with comparatively large particles .
All directions of motion of an ion after collision with molecules may therefore be supposed to 9qually probable , so .
that Ae mean values of the velocities of the ions after colliding be zero .
Since the magnetic field only alters the direction of motion , the number of collisions that an ion makes per second is not affected , and the intervals between the collisions will be distributed as in the ordinary case , pnd will have the same value T. The number of intervals that exceed the time out of a total number will be In the following investigations two expressions occur which may be found in terms of the mean time between collisions .
These are the series of cosines : .
; and the series of sines : , etc. , being intervals between a large number of consecutive collisions that an ion makes with molecules .
The number of intervals that lie between the values and is ' so that the series of cosines may be expressed as the integral This expression may be integrated by parts and its value is Similarly , the series of sines will be found to equal to 2 .
The rate of increase of the mean square of the diSt1}e of any distribution from the axis of , may be determine , by the motion of an ion parallel to the plane of Let and be the ates of an ion at any time after a ion .
he equations of motion are\mdash ; He ' and the and given by equations of the : .
: so that ) and } : Nobitity of Ions in .
a Magnetie Field .
578 Let be the ities at the beginning of the first interval , and let the first collision occur in a time the velocities after the first collision , and the interval between the first and second collision , etc. In the first interval , the distances and traversed by the ions are and Let be the initial position of the ion , then after the time NT , the position will be and and the square of the distance from the axis will have increased by the amount The latter terms are zero , since , on the average , the sum of the cosines of the angles which any path makes with the consecutive paths vanishes .
Hence , for any ion , the square of the distance changes by the amount For alarge number of ions starting from the point , the average values of and vanish , since the ions are free to move in all directions .
Hence the rate of change in the mean square of the distance of the distribution from the axis is Substituting for and their values , the quantity becomes .
The velocities are independent of the times , so that the mean value of may be substituted for in this expression .
Also , since is the velocity in the plane , the mean value of is being the mean velocity of agitation of the ions ; and , since the series of cosines , is equal to , the above expression reduces to The rate of sion K along the direction of the magnetic force is .
Hence 3 .
The motion of the ions may therefore be expressed in the usual form by the equations plane and collide with molecules on the side opposite to B. There will .
therefore .
be no tendency for the ions to move across the plane and the only effect of the netic force is to cause the ions to move in circular paths , and so shorten their effective mean free paths along the direction of the axes of and .
Hence when .
Apparently , therefore , the original equations which lead to an expression for involving cannot be correct .
4 .
When ions are moving in an electric field and a magnetic force is applied adong the axis of , the motion iu that direction is unchanged , but in the directions and the velocities are altered .
Taking the axis of as the direction of the electric force X , the equations of motion become so that the velocities and are given by the equations and the velocities at the beginning of the path being A and -Acos Let , etc. , , etc. , be the velocities after a number of consecutive collisions of an ion with molecules of the gas .
The distances that an ion travels in the first interval are and The distances traversed in the time NT are he terms independent of X obviously vanish in estrimating the mean displaoements of a group of ions starting from the origin , and the velocities and along the axes become VOL LXXXVI.\mdash ; A. 2 : In this case the arc of the circle described between two collisions is large compared with the radius .
The velocities of ions under an electric force in gases at low pressures may thus be easily determined by producing a small deflection of a stream with a magnetic force , since when is small .
Also the theory may be tested by observing the effect of a magnetic force on the diffusion of a narrow stream moving under an electric force .
In this case when the magnetic force coincides with the electric force , the motion arising from diffusion in directions normal to the force is reduced in the proportion , so that the ions are kept together in a narrower stream .
There are several well known phenomena connected with magnetic rays that occur in discharge tubes , in which remarkable effects are obtained by magnetic forces .
The erved effects are qualitatively in accordance with the above theory , but the conditions under which they are obtained and the system of forces that is called into play are so complicated that an accurate comparison with the theory would not be possible .
A New Treatment of Aberration .
By B. A. SAMPSON , F.B.S. ( Received March 15 , \mdash ; Read May 23 , 1912 .
) ( Abstract .
) A method is developed by which Gauss 's method of relating original and emergent rays in a coaxial optical system by means of a transformation , where may be applied so as to include the aberrations of the third order .

