December 21 , 1843 .
JAMES WALKER , Esq. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The reading of Dr. Davy 's paper , entitled , " Miscellaneous Observations on Animal Heat , " was resumed and concluded .
The author , in the first section of this paper , after adverting to the commonly received opinion that all fishes are cold-blooded , and noticing an exception , as he believes , in the instance of certain fishes of the genus Thynnus and of the Scomber family , describes the observations which he made whilst at Constantinople , on the temperature of the Pelamys Sarda , when , in three different examples , he found its heat to exceed that of the surface-water by 7 ?
, and of the deep water probably by 12 ? .
He adduces some observations and remarks on peculiarities in the blood of the same fish , of the sword-fish and of the common tunny , which he supposes may be connected with their temperature ; and throws out the conjecture , that the constitution of their blood-globule , formed of a containing and contained part , namely the globule and its nucleus , may be to each other in the electrical relation of positive and negative , and may thereby act with greater energy in separating oxygen in respiration .
In the second section , on the temperature of man in advanced old age , he relates a number of observations made for the purpose of determining the actual heat of persons exceeding eighty years of age ; the result of which , contrary to the commonly received opinion , is , that the temperature of old persons , as ascertained by a thermometer placed under the tongue , is rather above than below that of persons of middle age ; and this he thinks may be explained by the circumstance , that most of the food used by old persons is expended in administering to the function of respiration .
In the third section , on the influence of air of different temperatures on animal heat , after alluding to what he had witnessed of the rise and fall of the temperature of man on entering the tropics , and , within the tropics , on descending from a cool mountainous region to a low hot country , he adduces certain observations to show that in this country similar changes of temperature take place in a few hours in breathing the air of buildings artificially heated ; and , in confirmation , he describes the results of many observations made on an individual in the very variable climate of Constantinople , where , between March and July , in 1841 , the thermometer ranged from 31 ?
to 94 ? .
In the fourth section , he describes the observations which he made to determine the effect of moderate exercise , such as that of walking , on the temperature of the body , tending to prove , that while it promotes the diffusion of temperature and produces its exaltation in the extremities , it augments very little , if at all , the heat of the central and deep-seated parts .

