On the Production of regular double Refraction in the Molecules of Bodies by simple Pressure ; with Observations on the Origin of the doubly refracting Structure .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. L. 8 &amp; E. Read February 11 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 87 .
] The author has already shown , in former papers which have appeared in the Philosophical Transactions , that the phenomena of double refraction may be produced artificially by effecting certain changes in the mechanical condition of hard and of soft bodies .
In all these cases , he observes , the phenomena are entirely different from those of regular crystals ; and in none of them is the doublyrefracting force a function of the angle which the incident ray forms with one or more axes given in position .
In the year 1815 , he noticed the depolarizing properties of a thin film of a mixture of resin and white wax , compressed between two pieces of glass .
Accidentally meeting with the specimen which had originally been the subject of this observation , he found that after fifteen years it still retained this property of depolarization , and was induced to pursue the inquiry to which it led .
He varied the proportions of the ingredients , and observed in the different cases the modifications produced in the phenomena by employing various degrees of pressure .
He found that , in every point , there existed an axis of double refraction , perpendicular to the plane of the film , and that the doubly-refracting force varied with the inclination of the incident ray to this axis , just as happens with all regular uniaxal crystals .
He infers from his observations , that the property of uniaxal double refraction is communicated to the molecules simply by the agency of pressure ; for in all cases where pressure has not operated , the aggregate does not exhibit this property .
'These effects are precisely the same as those which would be produced by subjecting elastic spheres to a regular compressing force , the axis of pressure becoming an axis of positive double refraction ; while extension , on the contrary , produces a negative axis .
From the consideration of the preceding facts , the author is led to a very simple explanation of the origin and general phenomena of double refraction in regular crystals .
He considers this property as not being inherent in the molecules themselves , but as resulting from their compression , either by an extraneous force , or by their power of inherent attraction of aggregation .
The phenomena of crystallization , and of cleavage , prove that the molecules of crystals have several axes of attraction , or lines , along which they are most powerfully attracted , and in the directions of which they cohere with different degrees of force .
Guided by the indications of hemitrope forms , and supposing the molecules to be spherical or spheroidal , it is inferred that these axes are three in number , and at right angles to each other , and that they are related in position to the geometrical axis of the primitive form .
In like manner , the phenomena of double refraction are related to the same axis of the primitive form , and may be all rigorously calculated by a reference to three rectangular axes .
The author pursues the consequences of these principles in their application to various kinds of crystals .
It follows from this theory , that the forms of the ultimate molecules of crystals , existing separately , determine , within certain limits , the primitive form to which they belong ; while the doubly-refracting structure , and the precise form of the crystal , are simultaneously produced by the action of the forces of aggregation .
These views receive a remarkable consistation in the doubly-refracting structure which the author discovered in chabasie ; and they also enable us to understand the nature of that influence which heat produces on doublyrefracting crystals , as discovered by Prof. Mitscherlich .
The optical phenomena exhibited by fluids under the influence of heat and pressure , and by crystals exposed to compressing or dilating forces , are also in perfect conformity with the above views , and would in themselves have been sufficient to establish the principle that the forces of double refraction are not resident in the molecules themselves , but are the immediate result of those mechanical forces by which these molecules constitute solid bodies .

