56 Mr. W. H. Lang .
Apogamy and development , so do they also present the first introduction of ename as a separate tissue .
In its first introduction it was a joint product , made under circum stances which almost precluded any slow and gradual formation ol an outer layer upon the teeth ; but in the further specialisation oi teeth in reptiles and mammals the tooth germs sink more deeply into the submucous tissue , and are protected for a much longer time .
The enamel organs become more specialised , and finally take upon themselves the entire work of enamel building , manufacturing both the organic matrix and furnishing it with lime salts , as unquestionably happens in mammals .
And if these conclusions be correct , it would be quite justifiable to call it enamel , even though the dentine papilla has had a share in its production .
" On Apogamy and the Development of Sporangia upon Fem Prothalli .
" By William H. Lang , M.B. , B.Sc , Lecturer in Botany , Queen Margaret College , and " G. A. Clark '* Scholar , Glasgow University .
Communicated by Professor F O. Bower , Sc. D. , F.R.S. Received February 28 , -Read March 3 , 1898 .
J | ( Abstract .
) The two most important deviations from the normal life-histoiw o\#177 ; terns , apogamy and apospory , are of interest in themselves , butj acquire a more general importance from the possibility that their-1 s u y may throw light on the nature of alternation of generations 1 m archegoniate plants .
They have been considered from this point o view y ringsheim , and by those who , following him , regard the !
two generations as homologous with one another in the sense that f \#174 ; Porophyte arose by the gradual modification of individuals rigmaHy resembhng the sexual plant .
Celakovsky and Bower , on i the VieW that the sporophyte , as an inter-l imlated stage m the life-history arising by elaboration of the zygoteJ a W+lu T'l'g , jet the g^etophyte , and is only represented in n ^ J light of the theory of antithetic alternaneticpu^Jfes .
\amp ; * ?
\#166 ; ^ ^ apogam and apospory for phyloge- I f iH* tb+e PaP+tr 'f which this is an abstract the results obtained by ] condi^ohf , L , F^alli 'f a nUmber of sPecies of ferns under 1 theh-tr 8 ld^rent from the natural ones are described , and 1 The h !
Zri"g 'n/ o 7problem o\#163 ; the natnre of alternation considered .
1 ihe behaviour of Scolopendrium vulgar , Sm , and Nephrodium dilata- 1 Name .
colopendrium vulgar e , Sm .
, yar .
r amnios i ssimu m. Development of Sporangia upon Pern 57 m , Desv .
, in which sporangia were borne upon the prothallus , has ready been described in a preliminary statement.* It is therefore ifficient to express the results of prolonged cultivation of these and e remaining species in a tabular form .
Table of the Results of cultivating Prothalli for a Period of Two Years and a Half .
[ Note.\#151 ; In every species normal embryos were produced when mditions permitted fertilisation .
] Gametophytic budding .
Development of archegonial projections !
Development of cylindrical process usually from the apical region of the prothallus .
^Tracheides in cylindrical process .
Leaves , roots , and ramenta on process .
Apogamy .
\lt ; J Sporangia on the process .
Yegetative buds from tip of I cylindrical process , or in place L of an archegonial projection .
Similar to var .
ramulosissimum , but no sporangia , isolated ramenta , or leaves found .
Gametophytic budding .
Development of archegonial projections .
Development of cylindrical process , usually from the undef surface just behind the apex , which formed a " middle lobe .
" " Tracheides in middle lobe and cylindrical process .
t Sporangia , sometimes associated Apogamy .
\lt ; r \amp ; 5 .
I with ramenta , on middle lobe and process .
IJNTo vegetative buds .
var .
marginale .
ep hr odium dilatatum , Desv .
, var .
cristatum gracile .
if ?
if 1 it ep hr odium Oreopteris ) Desv .
, var .
j coronans .
| ' i. Gametophytic budding .
Development of archegonial projections .
Development of cylindrical process from apex of prothallus .
/ -Traclieides in cylindrical pro1 b Apogamy .
J cess ' | Ramenta on cylindrical process .
L Vegetative buds ( rare ) .
VOL. LX 111 .
# ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 60 , p. 250 .
W Mr. W. H. Lang .
On and the Name .
Result .
Aspidium , aculeatum , Sw .
, var .
multijidum .
Gametophytic budding .
Development of archegonial projections .
Apogamy .
\ Tracheides in P^otliallus .
L Yegetative buds ( rare ) .
Aspidium angulare , Willd .
, var .
foliosum multijidum .
var .
acutifolium multijidum .
Gametophytic budding .
Development of archegonial projections .
Apogamy .
/ Ramenta on P\#153 ; thallus .
L Vegetative buds ( frequent ) .
Gametophytic budding .
Development of archegonial projections .
No apogamy seen .
Athyrium niponicum , Met .
, normal form .
var .
cristatum .
Athyrium JPilix-fcemina , Bernh .
var .
per cristatum .
var .
cruciatum cristatum .
var .
coronatum .
Rolypodium vulgar , L. , var .
grandiceps .
Aspidium frondosum , Lowe ( from the Pits , Royal Gardens , Kew ) , Gametophytic budding .
Development* of archegonial projections .
Apogamv l Tracheides in prothalloid growth !
' L from archegonial projections , 1 Similar to the normal form , but in addition 8 few apogamously produced vegetative buds Gametophytic budding .
Development of archegonial projections .
Development of cylindrical process from apex ?
or from under surface of the prothallus .
Jj f Tracheides in process .
Apogamy .
\lt ; Continuation of process as a leaf .
L Yegetative buds .
Gametophytic budding .
Apogamy .
jl8olated.leaf'like growths1 Vegetative buds ( numerous ) .
Apogamy .
Yegetative buds produced on short cylindrical processes before the culture had been watered .
After the culture was watered , normal embryos .
In addition to the species mentioned in the table above , cultures were made of crested and uncrested forms of Nephrodium Filix-mas^ Rich .
, representing the three sub-species , which are sometimes ' distinguished in this country .
Some of these ( both crested and normal ) behaved in a similar manner to the species referred to in the table , though only one instance of apogamy induced by long cultivation has as yet been found .
Others ( crested and normal forms ) produced a single bud on the under side of the prothallus which did not bear archegonia .
Connecting this latter type of apogamy , which agrees with the ?
description of De Bary and Kny , with the more normal prothalli , was one variety , the archegonia of which developed into typical archer Development of Sporangia upon Fern Protlialli .
59 'onial projections .
In the place of the projection nearest to the ipex a vegetative hud arose .
It is possible to draw some general conclusions from this series of iultures .
It is a striking fact that in every one of the species , prothalli , which under normal conditions would have produced lormal embryos , became , after a longer or shorter period , apo-ramous .
Further there was a general similarity in the changes of form and structure of the prothallus , which preceded this result .
This form of apogamy , occurring after prolonged cultivation of normal prothalli under special conditions , may be distinguished as Induced apogamy , in contradistinction to direct apogamy , by which is meant the immediate production of vegetative buds by prothalli , which are usually incapable of being fertilised .
Both forms occur in Neplirodium Filix-mas .
The causes which appeared to induce apogamy in these prothalli were the prevention of contact with fluid water which rendered fertilisation impossible , and the exposure to direct sunlight .
Possibly the temperature also had some effect .
The case of Nephrodiuni Filix-mas shows that the variable condition of the sporopliyte , as indicated by cresting , \amp ; c. , though possibly predisposing to the changes which lead to apogamy , does not stand in any necessary connection with the phenomenon .
That different degrees of apogamy are distinguishable was also shown by these cultures .
The cylindrical process , arising from the apex of the prothallus , or from its under surface , is to be regarded simply as a modification in form and structure of the gametophyte dependent on the altered conditions , and possibly a direct adaptation to these .
The next stage is seen in cylindrical processes , which , while bearing sexual organs , also produce isolated members of a sporophyte ( roots , ramenta , sporangia ) .
It is to be borne in mind , however , that tissue differing from the rest of the process always occurred beneath the last-named structures .
The final stage is the production of a vegetative bud capable of further growth as a typical sporophyte .
In this a series , leading from the bud arising by transformation of the tip of a cylindrical process , to buds produced on or in the place of archegonial projections , and from this to buds situated on the under surface of the prothallus itself , can be recognised .
The readiness with which the intermediate form between gametophyte and sporophyte and the early stages of vegetative buds reassume the prothalloid form , is worthy of note , as bearing on some * cases of apospory .
These departures from the normal development of the prothallus are not regarded as reversions in the ordinary sense , but as indications of the capability of direct response to altered conditions f 2 60 Apogamy and Development of Sporangia upon Fern Prothalli possessed by the gametophyte .
Their possible importance in relatic to the theory of homologous alternation appears to the writer to 1 of this nature .
If that theory be true , the sporophyte and garnet phyte are modifications of a similar form .
The gametophyte , esj cially the simple free-living prothallus of the Ferns , has departs less widely from that form .
Such an organism as a fern prothallu would therefore appear to be suitable for experimental work , in th hope that its behaviour under altered conditions would afford hint as to the sort of changes which , in the original algal form , led t the evolution of the sporophyte .
The altered conditions in thiseries of experiments are of a similar kind to those which an assumed by Professor Bower to have occurred on .
the spread o algal forms to the land , and to have conduced to antithetic alter nation .
The results may now be used in picturing the manner in which alternation of generations might have come about by the modifica tion of originally similar individuals into gametophyte and sporo phyte .
It is assumed for this purpose that the sporophyte of the vascular cryptogams did not arise by the elaboration of a structure resembling a bryophytic sporogonium .
It is recognised that the theory of antithetic alternation , us elaborated by Professor Bower affords a consistent and satisfactory explanation , if the assumption* necessitated by the theory are granted .
The present theory , which is put forward merely as a provisional hypothesis , is founded on another class of facts .
With the spread of algal organisms to the land , where in the a sense of any vegetation affording shade , some at least would bg expose to more intense illumination , the flattened form would probably be assumed .
Prolonged drought and the influence of direct sun lg t , inducing directly a change of form into a cylindrical ' y , mig t be accompanied by the substitution of a reproductive organ forming dry reproductive cells ( spores ) for those adapted to an aqua ic existence .
The acquisition of more highly developed a soren organs ( primitive roots ) would further the existence and grow o is modified gametophyte .
This spore-producing stage would at first follow the sexual stage in any individual exposed to| ry con 1 ions .
t is possible to imagine , however , how the asso-J a ion ' \#169 ; asexual with the sexual individual might come about .
sense o ui water would prevent the liberation of motile spores !
from the zygote The latter would be obliged to germinate in sitvM and the fact that it did so under dry conditions would tend to the ; shortening of the sexual stage , and the speedy assumption of the sporophytic form and mode of reproduction .
From the spore , which ^ would always separate from the parent , a sexual individual woull arise , since germination could only take place in a damp spot .
Asl Degenerative Changes in Sensory End Organs of 61 oon as , with the increase in size and complexity of the spore-bearing dant , a vegetation capable of affording shade came into existence , he conditions suitable for the persistence of the more primitive , lga-like , sexual stage in the life history would be present .
The atter has , of course , also been modified in various ways .
In the concluding portion of this paper , the theories of antithetic md homologous alternation are compared by considering the expla-lations they afford of the facts .
The general conclusion reached is -hat , while both afford a possible explanation of the facts of altercation in archegoniate plants , any evidence which would render one or the other untenable is wanting .
The reasons on which either is considered more probable depend on the views held as to the lines of descent which have been followed , and the degree to which the different groups of archegoniate plants have had a common origin , or represent actual steps in the process of evolution of the sporo-phyte .
Under these circumstances the question must be regarded as an open one until the available lines of evidence have been more fully investigated .
I am especially indebted to Dr. Scott and Professor Bower for their assistance and advice ; the work was commenced in the Jodiell Laboratory of the Royal Gardens , Kew , and subsequently carried on in the Botanical Laboratory of the University of Glasgow .
" Experimental Observations on the early Degenerative Changes in the Sensory End Organs of Muscles .
" By F. E. Batten , M.D. Communicated by Professor Victor Horsley , F.R.fe .
Received February 17 , \#151 ; Read March 3 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments described in the following paper were undertaken in order to show , firstly , that degeneration occurred in the first place in that part of the neuron most remote from the cell , and secondly , to reproduce within the muscle-spindle , if possible , certain changes which had been shown by the author to be present in the case of tabes dorsalis in man .
The method of experiment was as follows : \#151 ; Dogs were selected , and the mixed roots of the 5th cervical to the 1st dorsal inclusive were divided , and the animals killed at the following periods after section of the nerve , viz. , 24 , 48 , 72 , 96 , 120 hours , and 7 and 14 1 days .
From the biceps muscle after being treated by Sihlers met io mnscle-spindles were teased out ; some of these were mounted with i out further staining , others were treated by Marchi 's method , otlicis were stained by the Marchi-Pal method .

