Proceedings and List of Papers read .
323 the second paper he takes an arithmetical example based on 205 families .
His results , if correct , would only show a flattening of the frequency-curve , an increased variability , and not a divergence or differentiation .
But I have shown that the tendency is really to a decreased variability , and on examination it will be found that the differences on which Mr. Vernon bases his conclusions are all of the order of the probable errors of his results !
Apart from this , however , the whole of his argument on pp. 405-6 seems to me invalid ; we cannot proceed by a vague threefold classification such as he adopts ; and he nowhere introduces , so far as I can see , the difference in height of the parents which must be the essential feature of the whole argument .
That Mr. Vernon has shown a relationship between homogamy and fertility in his * Phil. Trans. ' memoir is of high value , but I hold that such cannot help us in the slightest degree to dispense with the fundamental factor of Darwinian evolution , namely , natural selection.* April 5 , 1900 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A Lise of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of notice sent to the Fellows , an election was held to fill the vacancy upon the Council caused by the decease of Mr. G. J. Symons .
The statutes relating to the election of the Council , and the statute relating to the election of a Member of Council upon the occurrence of a vacancy , were read , and Professor Carey Foster and Sir E. Ommanney having been , with the consent of the Society , nominated scrutators , the votes of the Fellows present were taken and Mr. W. H. M. Christie , Astronomer Royal , was declared duly elected .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Weight of Hydrogen desiccated by Liquid Air .
" By Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. * Since the above paper was sent to the Royal Society \#151 ; ( ?
) The relationship of eye-colour to fertility in both man and woman has been investigated for several thousand cases ; while there appears to be some correlation between eye-colour and fertility , homogamous unions do not appear to be the more fertile .
The numbers will be eventually published ; ( ?
) Mr. Vernon has sent me a letter stating that , on further investigation , he has modified his views on Reproductive Divergence .
VOL. LXVI .
2 0 Prof. Karl Pearson and Miss A. Lee .
II .
" Combinatorial Analysis.\#151 ; The Foundations of a New Theory .
" By Major MacMahon , F.R.S. III .
" Uber Reihen auf der Convergenzgrenze .
" By E. Lasker Communicated by Major MacMahon , F.R.S. IV .
" Extinct Mammalia from Madagascar .
I.\#151 ; sp.n .
" By C. I. Forsyth Major .
Communicated by Dr. Woodward , F.R.S. Y. " The Kinetic Theory of Planetary Atmospheres .
Part I. " By G. H. Bryan , F.R.S. YI .
" Observations on the Effect of Desiccation of Albumin upon its Coagulability .
" By J. B. Farmer .
Communicated by Mr. H. T. Brown , F.R.S. VII .
" Further Note on the Influence of the Temperature of Liquid Air on Bacteria .
" By Dr. A. Macfadyen and S. Rowland .
Communicated by Lord Lister , P.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Easter Recess to Thursday , May 10th .
" Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
VIP-On the Application of certain Formula !
in the Theory of Correlation to the Inheritance of Characters not capable of Quantitative Measurement .
" By Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , with the assistance of Miss Alice Lee , D.Sc .
, University College , London .
Received August 5 , \#151 ; Read , November 16 , 1899 .
Withdrawn , re-written , and again presented March 29 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) ( 1 ) Many characters are such that it is very difficult if not impossible to form either a discrete or a continuous numerical scale of their intensity .
Such , for example , are skin , coat , or eye-colour in animals , or colour in flowers .
In other cases as in the amount of shading , degree of hairiness , \amp ; c. , it might be possible by counting scales or hairs to obtain a numerical estimate of the character , but the labour in the case of several hundreds or a thousand individuals becomes appalling .
Now these characters are some of those which are commonest , and of which it is generally possible for the eye at once to form an appreciation .
A horse-breeder will classify a horse as brown , bay , or chestnut ; a mother classify her child 's eyes as blue , grey , or brown without hesitation and within certain broad limits correctly .
It is clear that if the theory of correlation

