1884 .
] Researches in Spectrum Photography .
March 13 , 1884 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Researches in Spectrum Photography in Relation to new Methods of Quantitative Chemical Analysis .
Part II."* By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S.E. , \amp ; c. , Professor of Chemistry , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received February 28 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) This paper includes an introduction recording the methods which have been proposed by different authors for the quantitative estimation of various metallic elements .
An account is then given of the length and strength of metallic lines in solutions of definite strength .
Under given conditions each solution emits a characteristic spectrum .
In the case of magnesium , a minute description is given of the spectra presented by various solutions containing from 1 per cent , to 0'00000001 per cent , of the metal , but in the case of other elements tabular descriptions of the spectra of solutions containing 1 , 0*1 , and 0*01 , in some instances 0'001 , of metal are given together with carefully drawn maps .
The substances thus treated of are magnesium , zinc , cadmium , aluminium , indium , thallium , copper , silver , mercury , tin , lead , tellurium , arsenic , antimony , and bismuth .
The sensitiveness of the spectrum reaction is practically unlimited when applied to magnesium compounds dissolved in water , since it was shown that with a given length of spark , t0oo1ooo6 of a milligram could easily be detected ; when , however , the strength of spark was greatly increased , but the striking distance between the electrodes left unaltered , the sensitiveness was increased ten thousand-fold .
In point * For Part I see " Phil. Trans. , " Part I , 1884 .
2 a 2 422 Capt. H. P. Dawson .
[ Mar. 13 of fact , one part of magnesium was detected in 10,000,000,000 parts of water , the lines seen under these circumstances being those with wave-lengths 2801-6 and 2794-1 .
The spectrum reaction of arsenic is the weakest , those of antimony and tellurium are also weak while that of bismuth is not strong .
In fact it is noticeable that the more strongly basic elements are those with the most persistent lines .
Evidence is afforded in the case of the aluminium spectrum that it is not invariably the longest or strongest line which is the most persistent .
The line with wave-length 3584*4 is both longer and stronger than a pair of lines adjacent thereto with wave-lengths 3612-4 and 3601-1 , but whereas the first is not seen in solutions containing 0-1 per cent , of aluminium , the pair are still visible in solutions containing 0*01 per cent. Under certain conditions this single line appears the longest in the whole spectrum , whereas otherwise , and under most circumstances , the lines with wave-lengths 3960*9 and 3943*4 are longest .
As a rule , even the longest lines are shortened by great dilution of the solutions , but there is a pair of lines in the spectrum of copper with wave-lengths 3273*2 and 3246*9 which become greatly attenuated , yet nevertheless remain long lines till they finally disappear .
It is shown by one or two examples how the tables of spectra and accompanying maps may be employed in rendering quantitative results .
The special applications of this method it is proposed to describe in a further communication .
II .
" On the Mean Diurnal Variation of Magnetic Declination , from Hourly Observations at Fort Rae .
" Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. By Captain H. P. Dawson , R.A. Received February 28 , 1884 .
The accompanying diagrams represent the mean diurnal variation of declination for each month from September , 1882 , to August , 1883 , at the Circumpolar station at Fort Rae , British North America .
These curves are plotted from the hourly means for each month , and include the effect of disturbances which have greatly influenced them during the winter months , especially in November .
One effect of an unusual amount of disturbance is an increase of the mean declination ; the easterly disturbance , or that tending to increase the declination , being always in excess .

