On Magnetic Influence in the Solar Rays .
By Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. M.A. F.R.S. rc .
Read June 19 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 379 .
] From the experiments described by the author in a former paper , it appeared that a magnetized needle vibrated under exposure to the sun 's rays , came to rest sooner than when screened from their influence ; that a similar effect was produced on a needle of glass or of copper , but that the effect on the magnetized needle greatly exceeded that upon either of the others .
In the prosecution of this inquiry , the author has endeavoured to vary the experiments so as to obviate several causes of inaccuracy which might tend to invalidate the general conclusions he had before drawn .
His first object was to compare the effects of the solar rays on an unmagnetized steel needle with one that was magnetized under the same circumstances ; and the result was , that the latter was influenced in a more considerable degree than the former ; and a similar difference was observed when the vibrations of a magnetized needle were compared with those of a needle made of glass or of copper .
He ascertained that the diminution of the terminal arc of vibration , on exposure to the sun , was not occasioned merely by the heat imparted to the needles or surrounding medium , although this cause appeared in some instances to measure the intensity of the action which produced the diminution .
In order to determine the comparative influence of the separate rays , he allowed them to fall on the needles after transmission through differently coloured fluids and glasses ; but owing to want of opportunity , he was obliged to abandon the inquiry before arriving at any determinate results : though as far as they went , they appeared to confirm the conclusion that the effects were dependent on the degree of light , and not on that of the heat .
The red rays , however , appeared to have a greater effect in diminishing the terminal arc than the blue .
In order to determine the single effect of temperature , independently of light , the needles were vibrated in close vessels surrounded with water of different temperatures ; the results showed that the terminal arc was increased in air of higher temperatures , which is the reverse of what takes place from the direct influence of the solar rays ; and that this effect , instead of being different in the magnetized and in the other needles , was nearly the same in all , of whatever materials they consisted , and whether magnetized or not .
The author next endeavoured to ascertain the effects produced on the axes of vibration by the action of a common fire ; these , though much less in degree , he found to be similar in kind to those of the sun .

