]\gt ; 518 Dr. C. Chree .
On the Determination of [ Dec. showed no phosphorescence of any kind even on the metal plato ( compare paragraphs 4 and 5 , Part I ) .
48 .
These observations at \mdash ; 100confirm the vietv ( paragraph 38 ) that the effect of low temperature is to increase the insulating power of the molecules , and thereby to enable some substances to chemical energy which are unable to do so at all at higher temperatures , e.g. , barium platino cyanide ; and to increase the storage capacity of other substances in which the secondary phosphorescence is very short-lived at higher temperatures , , potassium chloride and bromide .
In the case of calcspar , insulating capacity at ordinary temperatures is already so excellent , as shown by the persistence of secondary phosphorescence , that there is comparatively little gain at the lower temperature .
49 .
If , as seems most probable , the coloration of solids by the rays is due to the presence of ions , it is intsresting to note that the different salts of potassium give perfectly distinct colours , the chloride being a red violet and the bromide and iodide a greenish blue .
This difference is most likely due to the modification of the colour of the potassium ions by the presence of the haloid ions , chlorine , bromine , or iodine .
] Note on the Determination of the Volume Elasticlty of Elastic Solids.\ldquo ; * By C. CHREE , Sc. D. , .D .
, F.R.S. Received December 21 , 1904 , \mdash ; Read February 2*1905 .
In a recent paper Mr. A. Mallock gives an ingenious and simple method of determining the coefficient of volums elasticity ( bulk modulus ) of metals by direct observation of the extension of a hollow right circular cylinder under uniform pressure .
The method depends on a result of mathematical theory which seems capable of being proved in a more direct and complete way , but which at the same time requirss to be restricted by conditions to which Mr. Mallock does not seem to refer .
Further , the method is only one of several which seem equally worthy of consideration .
When dealing with isotropic material I shall employ the following notation : \mdash ; Young 's modulus , Poisson 's ratio , bulk modulus .
main results of the first part of this paper ( Case i ) were worked out as a verilication before Mr. Mallock 's papel .
was printed ; were considered to have been sufficiently indicated in a footnote appended to th paper.\mdash ; J. L. ] 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 74 , p. 50 .
the .
Elasticity of BlaStic Solids .
Also will denote the length of the whole or a part of a generator of a right cylinder or prism , its elastic extension .
When a hollow tube of isotropic material , bounded by co-axial right circular cylinders , is exposed to uniform pressures , viz. , over the inner surface , radius , and ovsr the outer surface , radius , and to uniform tension over the flat ends , the elastic displacement parallel to the length , taken as axis of , is given by ( 1 ) .
Case ( i ) .
\mdash ; ( 3 ) .
Putting for shortness we have .
When the thickness , , of the cylinder wall is so small that is negligible compared to unity , ( 5 ) .
Case ( ii ) .
\mdash ; , @l 1 : ( 7 ) .
Thus , with the same notation as in Case ( 8 ) .
When is negligible compared to unity , ( 9 ) .
Case .\mdash ; ( 10 ) .
( 11 ) , and so . .
( 12 ) .
Case ( i ) is really that considered by Mr. Mallock .
Taking a cylindrical tube with terminal caps , he pphes a uniform internal presstlre .
This gives on each cap an outwardly directed pressure , whose total amount is .
This leads to a tension in the cylinder * 'Amer .
Math. Bull .
' 2nd series , vol. 7 , 1900 , p. 141 .
Cf .
'Phil .
Mag December , 1901 , ) , p. 594 .
Dr. C. Chree .
On the Determination of [ Dec. 21 , wall .
Denoting the mean value of this tension per unit area by have , since the cross-section of the material is , , or .
The firstlimitation above referred to is this : The longitudinal tension exerted on the cylindrical wall by the terminal caps will not in reality be uniformly distributed over the terminal areas ; thus the solution is reliable only when the principle of equipollent systems of loadingis applicable .
This means that portions of the tube near the ends should be excluded from the olution , the portions being shorter the thinner the cylindrioal wall .
The second limitation is that Mr. Mallock starts by assuming the tube wall very thin , and arrives at a formula which is presumably ( 5 ) , and which at all events possesses the same limitations .
The formula is applied , however , by Mr. Mallock on his p. 52 to cases in which varies from about 1/ 19 to 1/ 5 .
The application of ( 5 ) } the circumstances woul mean an error of from to 10 per cent. in the value of Case ( ii ) is parallel in every respect to Case ( i ) and would apply , *Todhunter and Pearson 's ' History of Elasticity , ' vol. 2 , Arts .
] , etc. The primary formula , to Mr. 's calculations seem to lead him , as given on his p. 51 , is There is an obvious omission of decimals in Mr. Mallock 's values for brass , which has been corrected above .
1904 .
] the Vohbme Elasticity of Elastic Solids .
521 under similar limitations , to a cylindrical tube closed by caps and exposed to uniform external pressure .
The tube exposed to pressure would have to be contained in a strong vessel , having a glass roof or side .
This might present disadvantages , but the test tube itself would be less exposed to temperature changes than in Case ( i ) and might be of a very simple type ; so that once the containing vessel was built experiments on a variety of materials would be simple .
Case ( iii ) is only a special instance of the obvious result that when an isotropic solid of any shape , bounded by any number of surfaces , is exposed to pressure , the same at every point of each and all of its bounding surfaces , in it whose original length is suffers a given by In Case ( iu ) any body will serve the purpose , but a long rod would be the natural form to adopt .
This means a simpler test object than in Cases ( i ) and ( ii ) , and there is the further recommendation that the mathematical solution is exact right up to the extremities of the object .
The compensating disadvantage is that it requires a very long test object , or a very high pressure , to give sufficient extension , unless extremely refined methods of measurement exist .
In Cases ( i ) and ( ii ) by using a thin walled tube one has much greater sensitiveness .
By subjecting a cylindrioal tube successively to internal and external pressures , and determining values for by both the methods 1 ) and ( ii ) , interesting information could ) obtained as to whether the bulk modulus is or is not the same for extension and compression .
Removing the caps , and determining by simple longitudinal tension , one would thus determine fully the elastic properties of the material , assuming it isotropic .
In any case ol should be measured from the equilibrium position of the test object after it is supported , and if it is hollow and exposed to internal fluid pressure afte it has been filled with liquid .
ResuIts in some respects more general than the preceding are obtained very simply from the formulae which I have given for the mean change of length in elastic solids under any given system oi loading .
Not coufining ourselves to isotropy , suppose first that the material is ely with respect to three rectangular planes , which ] we may suppose perpendicular to the axes of and Let be Youngb nlodulus for traction parallel to the axis of and , that one of the ( six ) Poisson 's ratios which answers to ctioIJ parallel and contractio1l ( strain ) parallel to represent the extensional strain parallel to The ] ] in a body of any shape exposed to surface forces whose components at any point parallel to are denoted by , the mea11 value of throughout the whole volume is given by 522 Dr. C. ChIee .
On the Dctermination of [ Dec. 21 , ( 13 ) Confining ourselves to the case where the material is symmetrical , about Oz , we have saysay , ' ( 14 ) .
Also , writing for it may be shown that ( 15 ) .
Suppose , now , the solid to be a hollow right prism exposed to uniform tension over its flat ends , , and to uniform pressures , over its inner surface , and over its outer surface , then PzdS ( 16 ) , where are the direction cosines of the normal drawn from the solid , and the suffix denotes the surface .
Taking the origin in one end of the prism , and supposing its length , we have over the one flat end and over the other ; thus denoting the area of one end , PzdS where is the volume of the naterial .
Over the two prismatic surfaoes , and where and represent the perpendiculars from some internal fixed point on the tangent planes to the two surfaces .
But obviously where and are the volumes included within and respectively .
Thus ( 16 ) gives at once .
Clearly , where represents the meall change in length of all the longitudinal ' fibres\ldquo ; of which the prism is } .
Thus As in the isotropic circular cylinder , there are three principal cases : ( i ) ( 18 ) , . .
( 19 ) ; * Camb .
Phil. Soc. Trans vol , 15 , Eqn .
( 15 ) , 1904 .
] the Volume Elastic Solids .
023 ( ii ) ( 20 ) , ( 21 ) ; ( iii ) ( 22 ) , Here . .
Noticing that and similarly for , it is obvious that Cases ( i ) and ( ii ) answer respectively to uniform internal and external pressures in a hollow prism whose ends are oovered by caps .
The above results are true\mdash ; under the same limitations as for the isotropic cylinder\mdash ; whatever be the shapes of the prismatic sections , and irrespective of whether they be similar to one another or not .
If , however , the prismatic walls be thick , or the contours of the cross sections be irregular and dissimilar , there be , so far as the above proof is concerned , considerable differences between the longitudinal alteration of different\ldquo ; fibres and to obtain a satisfactory observational value for might be troublesome .
In the case of a right circular cylinder whose two surfaces are co-axial there cannot , of course , be any buckling , and if the walls are thin , will be given satisfactorily by measurement of a single generator .
The elastic modulus defined by ( 24 ) represents ( mean surface pressure reduction in volume ) , in a unit cube when only the faces perpendicular to are under pressure , the remaining four faces being unstressed .
It is distinct from the true bulk modulus , answering to uniform pressure the in all directions , which is give1l by ( 25 ) , or .
( 26 ) .

