445 1876 .
] On the Photographic Spectra of Stars .
the lateral portion of the rectus abdominis muscle and the abdominal portion of the pectoralis major muscle .
As to the tongue , it seemed to me that having here a more complicated organ , supplied with so many more nerves than a simple muscle , and one that had been already frequently examined without much success , it was not so suitable to the object in view .
From the few experiments , however , that I have made on this organ , it seems to me that stimulation of the glossopharyngeal nerve , rather than the hypoglossal , causes dilatation of its vessels .
In concluding this short sketch of my experiments I would venture to say that as , from my own observations , stimulation of the anterior crural nerve of dogs causes dilatation of the vessels in that group of muscles known by the name of quadriceps extensor , while Sadler has shown the same for the biceps and semitendinosus muscles and for the flexor communis digitorum of the forearm , and as , in frogs , stimulation of their respective nerves causes dilatation of the vessels in the mylohyoid , pectoralis major , and rectus abdominis muscles , it is reasonable to suppose that this holds good for simple voluntary muscles throughout the body .
I would further add that the beauty of the circulation and the extent of the dilatation that may be observed in the arteries of the mylohyoid muscle lead one to hope that further investigations here may materially assist in solving the vexed question , " What is the mechanism by which dilatation of a vessel is caused ?
" All the foregoing observations on the circulation in the muscles of the frog were carried on in the Physiological Laboratory of the University of Cambridge .
IY .
" Note on the Photographic Spectra of Stars .
" By William ' Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 6 , 1876 .
In the year 1863 Dr. Miller and myself obtained the photograph of the spectrum of Sirius .
" On the 27th January , 1863 , and on the 3rd March of the same year , when the spectrum of this star ( Sirius ) was caused to fall upon a sensitive collodion surface , an intense spectrum of the more refrangible part was obtained .
Prom want of accurate adjustment of the focus , or from the motion of the star not being exactly compensated by the clock movement , or from atmospheric tremor , the spectrum , though toleiably defined at the edges , presented no indications of lines .
Our other investigations have hitherto prevented us from continuing these experiments further ; but we have not abandoned our intention of pursuing them " * .
I have recently resumed these experiments by the aid of the 18-inch * Phil. Trane .
1864 , p. 428 .
446 On the Photographic Spectra of Stars .
[ Dec. 14 , speculum belonging to the Royal Society 's telescope in my possession .
Considerable delay has arisen from the necessity , for these observations , of a more uniform motion of the driving-clock .
For this purpose , Mr. Howard Grubb has successfully applied to the clock the control of a seconds pendulum in electric connexion with a sidereal clock .
This system works quite satisfactorily .
The prisms employed are made of Iceland spar , and the lenses of quartz .
After an extensive trial of different photographic processes , preference has been given to dry plates .
The apparatus is so arranged that a solar or electric spectrum can be taken on the same plate , for the purpose of comparison , with the spectrum of the star .
Spectra have been obtained of Sirius , Yega , Yenus , the Moon , \amp ; c. I do not purpose in this preliminary notice to describe in detail the arrangements of the special apparatus which has been constructed , nor to offer the results of the experiments in their present incomplete state to the Royal Society .
Still I venture to hope that , even in this early stage of the inquiry , the enlarged copy of the spectrum of Yega ( a Lyrse ) which accompanies this note may not be regarded as altogether unworthy of attention .
After exposure to the light of Yega , the dry plate was allowed to remain in the instrument until the following morning , when a solar spectrum was taken upon it , through the half of the slit which had remained closed when the instrument was directed to the star .
The photograph shows seven strong lines , all of them slightly shaded at the sides .
The two lines which are least refrangible coincide with two known lines of hydrogen in the solar spectrum .
It is expected , by means of an apparatus now in the course of construction , to obtain also any finer lines which may be present in the spectrum of this star , as well as to extend the photographic method to stars which are less bright .
I need not now refer to the many important questions in connexion with which photographic observations of stars may be of value .

