The Bakerian Lecture .
An Account of Experiments to determine the Amount of the Dip of the Magnetic Needle in London , in August 1821 ; with Remarks on the Instruments which are usually employed in such Determinations .
By Captain Edward Sabine , of the Royal Regiment of Artillery , F.R.S. Read November 22 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 1 .
] After describing the imperfections of the instruments in general use for ascertaining the dip of the magnetic needle , and adverting to the consequent inaccuracy and insufficiency of the observations made with them , Captain Sabine gives an account of the form of dippingneedle which he preferred for his experiments , and which was constructed for him by Mr. Dollond , upon principles laid down by Professor Meyer , of Gottingen .
He then enters into minute details of the mode of pursuing and verifying his observations , the results of which , gained by three different methods , are as follows : viz. by 10 experiments with Meyer 's needle , 700 2'9 ; by the times of oscillation in the magnetic meridian , and in the plane perpendicular to it ( mean by three needles ) , 70 ?
04 ' ; by the times of vertical and horizontal oscillation , 70 02 ' 6 .
So that 70 ?
03 ' may be considered as the mean dip of the needle towards the north , in August and September 1821 , within four hours of noon , being the limit within which all the experiments were made .
Alluding to former observations for the purpose of determining the dip in London , the author observes that , independent of any imperfection in the instruments , they were made in houses in close built parts of the metropolis , and , therefore , all subject to the influence of local attraction ; and , moreover , that the correction found by observing the difference of the dip on the outside of the house cannot be regarded as an effectual remedy , inasmuch as the needle may still have been attracted by iron in the adjoining houses , or in the neighbourhood .
It is , indeed , only requisite to try needles in different situations in a city , to be convinced how little dependence should be placed in the accuracy of such results : the author thinks that it is rather owing to this cause than to instrumental error , that the dip at the Apartments of the Royal Society is stated in the Philosophical Transactions for the present year to be 710 06 ' .
To avoid this source of error , Captain Sabine conducted the observations which form the subject of this lecture in the nursery-ground in the Regent 's Park , a situation which he regards in all respects eligible , and far removed from the influence of iron .

