158 Mr. T. T. Groom .
[ June 16 , XIV .
" On the early Development of Cirripedia .
" By Theo .
T. Groom , B.A. , B.Sc. , F.G.S. , Demonstrator in Zoology at the Yorkshire College , Leeds , late Scholar of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Adam Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received May 11 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) During a month 's occupation of a table at the Marine Biological Laboratory of Plymouth , in the summer of 1889 , and a nine months ' occupation of the Cambridge University Table at the Zoological Station of Naples* commencing in the October of the same year , I had the opportunity of studying the development of a number of Cirripedes .
Since that time , investigations on the same group have been carried on chiefly in the Morphological Laboratory at Cambridge .
I have been wishful to take up this subject , because the embryology of Cirripedia had been considerably neglected since the introduction of the more modern methods of investigation , and because the development might reasonably be expected to throw light on the adult structure of this interesting group .
I wished , moreover , to compare the development in several species , with the object of throwing some light on larval evolution in general .
The species studied were Lepas an at if era , Linn feus * Lepas , Spengler ; Conchoderma virgata , Spengler ; Darwinii , I ilippi ; Chthamalusstellatus , Poli , and Bruguiere .
Of Dichelaspis , only mounted specimens of the nauplii were examined , but in the other forms the development from the freshly-laid ovum to the second nauplius stage was investigated .
I had expected to find notable differences in the development of the different forms , but , although most of the genera could be distinguished at an early age , by some feature or other , the general course of development was very uniform , and the following summary is applicable to all the members of the group:\#151 ; The freshly-laid ovum consists of granular protoplasm , hollow yolk granules , and oil globules .
Its size has much more relation to that of the nauplius than to that of the adult .
First polar body is given off , not in the ovary , but in the mantle cavity , though the first directive spindle is evidently formed in the ovary .
The polar body is formed independently of , and probably before , or simultaneously with , fertilisation .
Fertilisation takes place in the mantle cavity before the peri-vitelline membrane is formed .
The emission of the first polar body is immediately followed by the formation of the vitelline ( or peri-vitelline ) membrane , which arises $92 .
] On the early Development of Cirripedia .
liile the egg is in the mantle cavity , whether the egg has been utilised or not .
If fertilisation has not taken place , no further change ensues , and L egg does not contract ; a second polar body is probably formed , at owing to the resistance of the peri-vitelline membrane cannot merge , and is not seen .
If fertilisation has taken place , the egg diminishes in size , and ommences to undergo rhythmical contractions , which cease only rhen the protoplasmic and yolk portions are completely separated .
The diminution in size is soon followed by the protrusion of clear imoeboid processes at the anterior end of the egg , which are as often withdrawn : from this amoeboid arises the second polar body , like he first , by the division of the nucleus in the ordinary karyokinetic manner .
The protoplasm generally collects at the anterior ( larger ) pole , and the yolk at the posterior ( pointed ) pole , in the well-known way .
The process does not represent a total division , as has been supposed , into ectoderm and endoderm , but the formation of a teleolecithal egg , the protoplasmic part of which will form the first blastomere , and now rests upon a yolk portion , at first devoid of a special nucleus , but still in communication with the protoplasmic half .
The nucleus , at first small and peripherally situated at the anterior pole ( invisible without special preparation ) , becomes visible as a clear spot or vesicle\#151 ; the segmentation nucleus\#151 ; occupying the centre of the protoplasmic half of the egg .
The nucleus divides , one daughter-nucleus remaining in the protoplasm , and the other passing into the yolk , the elements of which it has the power of transforming into protoplasm ; this , together with the bulk of any protoplasm left in the yolk , now emerges as a second blastomere at the side of the first , which has in the meantime become cut off from the yolk .
The yolk becomes gradually covered by the successive emergence of fresh cells , which process is accompanied by the division of the cells cut off from it .
The nucleus of these emerging protoplasmic bodies or merocytes is given off either from a peripheral blastomere , which has not yet been cut off* from the yolk , or from a merocyte which divides before emerging as a blastomere .
The yolk may be regarded as having the value of a single cell ( macromere ) , which gives off a succession of blastomeres ( micromeres ) much in the same way as in the case of the epibolic eggs of Bonellia , where , however , there are four maeromeres , each of which behaves in the same way .
The point where the blastoderm last covers the yolk represents ( except possibly in rare cases ) the blastopore , the nucleus which gives rise to both endoderm and mesoderm arising at or close to the same spot .
Mr. T. T. Groom .
[ June 16 , After separation of the epiblast the yolk cell or macromere remains still as a cell with a single nucleus , derived from that of the meroeyte which formed the last or one of the last blastomeres .
This yolk cell represents both mesoblast and hypoblast .
The meso-hypoblast cell immediately divides into two cells , one situated more dorsally , the other more ventrally .
Each of these contains mesoblastic and hypoblastic elements .
The mesoblast is formed by the cutting off in succession of segments from each of the two meso-hypoblast cells ; these form a ping of rapidly dividing cells just in front of the closed blastopore .
When all the mesoblastic cells are cut off the two yolk cells left remain as the first two hypoblast cells .
The two cells thus formed become divided into smaller yolk endoderm cells equivalent to the secondary yolk pyramids of Decapods ( Reiclienbach 's Secunddre D otterpy r amiden Each yolk pyramid becomes later converted into an endoderm cell by radial contraction in a centrifugal direction , accompanied by gradual retreat of the nucleus to the periphery ; the archenteric cavity arises by the separation thus caused of the central portions of the pyramids from one another .
The alimentary canal arises in three divisions , as in the Arthropoda generally , the stomach being formed mainly from the yolk endoderm , and the lining of the oesophagus and intestine probably wholly as long epiblastic ingrowths ( stomodaeum and proctodseum ) .
The mesoblastic cells of the nauplius , arising in the way described , divide up rapidly and extend forward between the ectoderm and endoderm as a dorsal plate ; this soon grows dowm at the sides , but does not at first extend to the ventral surface .
This plate is chiefly concerned in the formation of the muscles of the nauplius appendages , which arise , as is probably the case in all nauplius forms , with the free ends directed dorsally .
The appendages are marked out first by two transverse furrows dividing the embryo into three segments ; these occur only across the dorsal surface and up the sides , not extending into the ventral surface .
Very soon the dorsal surface becomes traversed by a median longitudinal furrow , which does not , extend to the ends of the body , but is bounded by two new transverse furrows ; these furrows mark out an anterior and posterior ( caudal ) unpaired lobe with the free ends of the appendages between them on the dorsal , and not , as has always been stated for Cirripedes , on the ventral surface .
The antennules , antennae , and mandibles are probably serially homologous , as indicated by their similarity in the free nauplius , and by their remarkable and similar origin ; all may represent primitively post-oral appendages .
There are no mesoblastic somites at any period of embryonic 1892 .
] On the early Development of 161 development ; bat the mesoblastic layer becomes thickened locally to form the muscles of the appendages in each of the three segments .
The body cavity* of the nauplius arises later as a mixed blasto-ccele and schizocoele , due in part to the separation of ectoderm and endoderm , and in part to an excavation of mesoblastic tissue .
It soon forms a cavity continuous from end to end of the body .
The nervous system of the nauplius ( arising as usual as an epi-blastic thickening ) shows from the beginning a complex structure , especially in the Balanids , and among these it is most specialised in the Balaam\#174 ; .
It is probably from the first a syn-cerebrum , since it includes , in addition to the representative of the archi-cerebrum , the ganglia supplying the antennules .
The antenn\#174 ; and mandibles are in close relation with the circum-oesophageal connectives and sub-oesophageal ganglion respectively .
A comparatively sudden change is experienced by the nauplius in passing from stage I to stage II ; this necessitates a telescoping of the tail , caudal spine , and bristles of the appendages , the gradual evagination of which gives rise to the peculiar appearances seen at this stage , and which have given rise to some misconceptions .
There is a most remarkable agreement between the nauplii of the various species in the general structure of the carapace , labrum , \amp ; c. , extending to the minutest detail in the case of the appendages , and indicating that the features in question have been inherited from some stage of the common ancestor .
There are , however , points of difference which concern chiefly the carapace ( with its horns and caudal spine ) , labrum , and tail .
Differences are perceptible in most cases in the new-laid ovum of different forms , and the genera , or even the species , can thus be separated even at this early stage .
The larval differences necessitate a classification which agrees very closely with that deduced from the structure of the adults .
Such differences have , however , in most cases been acquired independently of adult structure , since they concern characters peculiar to the larvae , and lost by the adult .
Some indications of the precocious appearance of characters originally belonging to the later stage are seen in Balarms ; but most of the characters cannot be so explained .
The larva and adult have varied simultaneously , but in quite different ways , each having in this group taken its own course of evolution .
The agreement in the development of such forms as Balanus and Lepas , stage by stage , indicates that the ancestor of the Thoracica underwent a metamorphosis similar to that of the present members of the group .
The Nauplius and Cypris stage have , therefore , not been evolved within the group .
* This term is used in a purely descriptive sense .
VOL. LII .
M 162 Thermal Radiation in Absolute Measure .
[ June 16 , The embryonic development , though , in its main lines very uniform throughout the group of the Thoracica ( Lepadidae , Yerrucidse , Balanidae ) , shows considerable variation in some respects , and the variable features are the same in all the species .
The most conspicuous variations are those which affect the processes of cell division .
The details of the mode of growth of the blastoderm over the yolk , from the appearance of the basal plane to the closure of the blastopore , and the resulting cell arrangements vary indefinitely .
After the closure of the blastopore , the yolk endoderm cells present in their mode of division an almost equally great diversity .
The size , shape , and colour of the ova and embryos of a species vary not inconsiderably .
In size and shape the nauplii of a species vary somewhat ; but no conspicuous variations occur in structure , the larvae always showing a great amount of uniformity , even in so minute a feature as the character of each bristle belonging to an appendage .
Minute variations occur in the ornamentation of the carapace , caudal spine , and tail , and ( in Ghthamalus ) in the number of teeth at the end of the labrum .
XY .
" Thermal Radiation in Absolute Measure .
" By J. T. Bottomley , M.A.j D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains an account of an experimental investigation by the author in continuation of researches on the same subject which have been already published ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1884 , and ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1887 ) .
In the earlier experiments metallic wires heated by an electric current were used .
The loss of heat from a heated body , however , depends to some extent on the form and dimensions of the body , and it seemed important to experiment on the loss of heat from bodies differing in form from the wires already used , and larger in dimensions .
Accordingly , two copper globes used by Mr. D. Macfarlane in 1872 ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1872 , p. 93 ) were employed for a new series of experiments .
After preliminary experiments ( using the same enclosure which Macfarlane employed , and with the surfaces of Macfarlane 's globes prepared in four different ways ) new apparatus was constructed ; the object being to experiment both with full air pressure and with different amounts of exhaustion of the air , and Macfarlane 's enclosure being unsuitable for this purpose .
In the arrangement adopted , the heated globes were hung at the

