An Account of the Application of the Gas from Coal to economical Purposes .
By Mr. William Murdoch .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read February 25 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 124 .
] An apparatus for the production of the gas from coal having been prepared by Mr. Murdoch , for the very extexlsive cotton manufactory of Messrs. Philips and Lee , at Manchester , which is now illuminated by means of this alone upon a very large scale , this instance was selected as the best for estimating the expense of employing the gas lights .
The quantity of light there employed was ascertained by comparison of the shadows to be equal to that of about 2500 mould candles of six in the pound , each of which consumes about four tenths of an ounce of tallow per hour .
The coal is distilled in large iron retorts , and the gas conveyed by pipes of iron to large reservoirs or gasometers , where it is washed and purified beforeit is conveyed to the mill .
The main pipes branch off into a variety of ramifications ( the aggregate length of which amounts to several miles ) , the several branches diminishing in diameter in proportion as the quantity of gas to be passed through them becomes less .
The burners where the gas is consumed communicate with the main by short pipes , furnished each with a cock to regulate the admission of gas .
These burners are of two kinds : one is on the principle of the Argand lamp , and the other has a conical termination with three holes , one at its point , and the other two placed laterally about one thirtieth of an inch in diameter .
The former , of which there are 271 , are each equal to four candles ; and the latter amounting to 633 , are each equal to 2{ candles ; so that the total amount is , as above stated , about equal to 2500 candles .
For the hourly supply of these burners , 1250 cubic feet of gas are necessary ; and since the lights are used for about two hours , the daily consumption of gas is 2500 cubic feet .
For the production of this quantity of gas , seven hundred weight of cannel coal is employed , which , notwithstanding its high price , is found to be the most economical , on account of the superior quality and quantity of the gas it yields .
The number of working days being 313 , the annual consumption of cannel coal is 110 tons , of which the cost is 1251 .
But these 110 tons yield 70 tons of coke , the value of which is 931 .
, leaving a difference of 321 .
, to which must be added 201 .
for the value of 40 tons of good common coal employed for heating the retorts .
But by far the greatest part of the cost of employing this species of light consists in interest of capital employed in furnishing the apparatus , and in repairing the wear and tear , which are stated together by Mr. Lee at about 5501 .
per annum , making a total annual expenditure of 6001 .
instead of 20001 .
, which would be required to produce an equal quantity of light from 2500 candles burning together , at Is .
per pound .
If the estimate were made upon three hours instead of two per day , it is evident that the comparison would be still more in favour of the gas lights , since the interest of capital would be the same , and the wear and tear not much greater ; so that the annual cost might be about 6501 .
instead of 30001 .
The introduction of the gas lights into this manufactory has been gradual : at first some inconvenience was experienced from the smell ; but this objection has been wholly removed by improved methods of purifying the gas , and it is now much approved by the work-people for the perfect steadiness of the light ; and it is wholly free from the inconvenience of snuffing , and from the danger occasioned by sparks that fall from candles .
In addition to the foregoing statement of comparative economy , the author conceives it may be interesting to the Society to be informed of the original application of this gas , as a substitute for oil and tallow , which he states to have put in practice nearly sixteen years , in consequence of experiments which he was at that time conducting at Redruth , in Cornwall , upon the distillation of various mineral and vegetable substances .
It was not , however , till the year 1798 , that he removed from Cornwall to the manufactory of Messrs. Boulton and Watt , at the Soho foundery , and there constructed an apparatus on a large scale , for the purpose of lighting their principal building .
Since that period it has been extended to the greatest part of their manufactory , to the exclusion of other artificial light ; but Mr. Murdoch has preferred collecting his estimate from the apparatus of Messrs. Philips and Lee , on account of the greater extent and greater uniformity of the lights .
Although the author did not derive his information concerning the inflammability of this gas from any source but his own experiments , he has since learned that " the inflammable spirit of coals ' is mentioned by Dr. Clayton in the forty-first volume of the Philosophical Transactions , so long since as the year 1739 ; and he is informed that the current of gas escaping from Lord Dundonald 's tar-ovens had been frequently set on fire previous to the date of his experiments : but he thinks himself entitled to claim the original idea of applying it as an economical substitute for oils and tallow for the purpose of illumination .

